

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
A
4?
Parsons 9 Flaked Oatmeal
TES,, G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— ,
twiner and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr
s e
PM’S MALTED COCOA
...
A
ZX3
$
T~.
4>
Sj
a
O
o
X
<Rack-aJocK>
4
o
V
c
o
o
a
V
((
K. A. Hervcy, Agent, as Pltt-8t , Sydne
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir U. W. Doff, the Earl of Jersey,
r S Lord Carinqton, etc.,
335 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
.Sr SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING AND HAND BAGS, ETC.
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
-A' -4~ S
oEJ
?Hj-
i n
Tlie Oxford Hotel, King Street;, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ••• Proprietor
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
Duff, K.C.M.G.
'—THE—,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
MILK ~
CKEAM ..
ICE
BITTER
FISH
GAME
roiLTia
PASTKI, Ac. ..
The Purest Country.
Double or Single,
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
KT* The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony; —
IVII3L.K, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Fastry, ' etc.
11. BATESON,
Sydney, Ist July, 1893. Manager.
7TulsM
J.
Sole
c. XX o
New South Wales for IML&sa srs.
Clayton and. Siiuttlewortli
, I’V'; —THE—
Oldest Plough-makers
In the World.
THE BUILDERS
I*/ OF THE
First Iron Plough in the World.
We have a reputation for Plough-
making all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
which is not to be equalled by any
of the younger and less experienced
firms.
r*fJoJr~sf€CF!nCE PLOUGH
4S
—THE-
Howard Digging Plough,
The most perfect Cultivator
yet made.
To be had in all descriptions.
ALL CLASSES
—Of—
Agricultural Implements
and II W lIIMiRI'.
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely-extended SHOW-
ROOM'*.
& C. KEowara, 280 & 280 J m F*±tt Street,
ey.
The Bulletin
Yol 14.—N0. 739. J
Saturday, April 14, 1894.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-toil—
Winter Coughs and Bronchia
BONNINGTON’S
( Registered)
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURB
Any kind of a Cough or Cold (recent or chronic),
Influenza, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Tickling of the Throat, Bronchitis,
Incipient Consumption, and all other similar
complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers.
It clears the Throat, removes all huskiness and
causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale : 179 Hams Street, Sydney.
r ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSI
The sweetest of all sweet odours. The
original and only true Essence is
Atkinson’s. Beware of Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
When of good quality Eau de Cologne
isoneof the most refreshing Perfumes.
Atkinson’s English make is uni-
versally acknowledged as the finest.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shield-
ihajpe blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Rose ”
Bk and address in full jt
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
Buffering from Deafmss, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.VV.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
*
PATENT
PILLS.
b
f-
£
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
is a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
»oon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
»f the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
Be found to work wonders upon the most important
jrgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the 'ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy tor Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
Mid Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
itand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
md difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkecbam’s Cotton
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared onlv, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. (containing 56 pills), and at
Bs. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold' by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
iverywhere.
H.B.—Full directions are given with each box. |
f3jT* a BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes n> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in everv disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 73 New Oxford-st., London. CW" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
gourious
////////.'/ V ;4
V m
s
f
iw
D
1
... n
W OULDNT I LIKE TO 6£ (AMT
MANUFACTURED BY THE
NEW YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO CO.,
CleveJ and. Street, SYDNEY.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
m' APPLY FOR
Sr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PBRay,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr^RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS m INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” — Chas. H. Pibsse,
M.R.0.5., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F. 0.5., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RBSTOREI
lit Four Weeks by the use of
R* CORD'i
v.1 F
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Bicords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements oj the human fi ame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Ereight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
m Agents for Australasia— Perry A Co., 73 Gertruds
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
OWS „ ■
fk®
R
t
SOLO
«• V
\h
\ EVERYWHERE*'
>P
m
Medical.
UPP
r
A
&
o N
s
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS.
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE KRUPP GALVANIC BELT,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is
Guaranteed to Absolutely Cure
completely and lastingly, the following complaints?*—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Com-
plaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation,
Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both, sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USE-
LESS DRUBS? Electricity, when properly applied, is
acknowledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians
to be the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and
Sexual Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials re-
ceived by the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages
throughout Australasia prove the unquestionable curative
properties of Electricity as applied by the appliance above
referred to. Our confidence in this appliance is so
complete, that
We Send the Belt Out on Trial,
and guarantee to give perfect satisfaction. For full par-
ticulars as to terms, &c., send for our large illustrated
treatise, FREE, in which these Belts are fully illustrated,
the action of Electricity on the nervous system explained,
and a lot of useful information on nervous and sexual
diseases given. This treatise also contains facsimile of
testimonials received from some of our clients who have
tried our Belts. The originals of these testimonials pro-
duced on application.
{pgr* The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Cham Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp. |
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtnky.
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT CO.,
BOX 617, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt is easy to wear, is
ent on approval, and the first cost is the only cost.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ bight and Life ’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sea*
Eree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d
“THE BULLETIN."
(Published at SY DNEY,N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal ,
Is only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Yoke.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education,
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical, It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it, was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily piper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper; and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushmau of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact —
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of alVjournals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Maclkod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi.
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical.
R
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
ami Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “ Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
“NERVOUS &. SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vin&i will, on receipt of dEX !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
(■ure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Vin6s with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected. .
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
X Charge 3NT othing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Vin6s for Advice and Treatment; ho
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Honrs of Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.tn. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings : Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications
I
Dr. JBCKIELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING,
No Cure, 3XT o lE* ay.
THIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt whioh will
- 1 - cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt (fives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), whioh will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
f
BEFORE
TAKING.
NERVITA
CURES IN 21 DAYS
DEBILITY.
f
AFTER
21 DAYS.
i In all stages, Despondency, I
1 Bashfulness, &c., &c., how-
I ever caused, never returns. I_
THOUSANDS have proved that the only REMEDY
to effect a quick permanent cure is NERVITA, the
21 days’ cute, forwarded by mail in plain package to
any address. Price, 21 SHILLINGS. Why pay more ?
NERVITA REMEDY AGENCY, Box 399, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W. ______
BEEP IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
AIiSOUTIiIY PUKE.
Proprietors; ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
Medicals
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. G-IBBONT9,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOXJKTO I HLJEiN
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches ;
giddiness ; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pams in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; tailing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c M should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT "ST,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
dr. gibbons
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NOWE NEED DESPAIR,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed toy F i re
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
{Tiro doors from. Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
I CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical*
IMPORTANT MEDICAL NOTIdM.
Db. CLINTON, M.D., P.R.0.8.
(rbqistered),
Late Physician to Special Hospitals for Diseases of Women,
Cancer and Consumption, may be CONSULTED DAILY
from 12 to 4, at 70 Hunter Street (opp. Tram), or
Stratbfleld. (opp. Council Chambers). Dr, CLINTON
has for years made a special study of the abovenamed
diseases, and has had a wide experience in the chief
Special Hospitals devoted to their treatment, both in
Europe and America, and holds certificates from the lead-
ing specialists of the present day.
DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Many years devoted to this important Specialty enables
Dr. Clinton to offer the soundest and beet advice, and his
treatment has proved eminently satisfactory in hundreds
of cases.
DISEASES OF THE CHEST.
As House Physician for two years to one of the largest
Special Hospitals for Consumption, and as Assistant to
leading Specialists in Berlin and Paris, Dr. CLINTON has
enjoyed unusual facilities for studying these particular
diseases.
CANCER.
The most trustworthy and latest scientific treatment is
guaranteed, and those suffering from this dreaded
disease are invited to consult Dr. CLINTON, who has
probably had a wider practical experience in this disease
ban most medical men.
NERVOUS DISEASES.
Those desirous of consulting a reliable registered
Physician of thirty years’ practical experience are invited
to do so either personally, or by letter, in strictest con-
fidence. As House Surgeon to the London, Paris and
Vienna Special Hospitals, and as Clinical Assistant to
Professors Ricord and Brown S6quard, Dr. CLINTON has
ad an unique experience.
CONSULTATIONS.
Moderate Fees (consistent with able advice and a life's
experience) including medicine.
COUNTRY PATIENTS
Unable to personally consult Dr. CLINTON are invited to
correspond by letter, entering fully into details. Every
case will be most carefully considered, and the fullest
directions for treatment, including sufficient medicine for
one week, will be forwarded, post free, securely packed, on
receipt of ONE GUINEA. Resident patients received.
Highest references and hundreds of Testimonials.
Dr. CLINTON* M.D., RKC.S,
70 Hunter Street, Sydney, and Strathfield.
LEPROSY,
Scrofula, Eczema, Erysipelas, Rheumatism, Smallpox,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Worms, Typhoid, and
other Fevers, Measles, Itch, Gout, Ulcers, Stone in
Bladder, Fits, Sciatica, Cancers, Blotches, Lumbago,
Scurvy, Piles, Gravel, Indigestion, Kidney and Liver Com-
plaints, Foul Sores, Debility, Pimples, Freckles, Grog
Blossoms, Palsy, Saint Vitus’s Dance, Chilblains, Chapped
Hands, Ringworm, Soaldhead, Scales, Barbers’ Rash,
and all other
Blood and Skin Diseases
Guaranteed to be speedily eradicated, and permanently
cured by Dr. KOCH’S non-mercurial, non-poisonous,
infallible remedy. It destroys the germs of every Disease.
Asiatics have spread LEPROSY all over Australia, therefore
no skin eruption should be neglected. Dr. KOCH’S
treatment is the only reliable, sure cure for this loathsome
disease. Dr. KOCH’S wonderful blood purifier, and his
marvellous skin-cleansing solution, are only obtainable
DIRECT from us. Unobservable packages, with full
directions, 10/6, 21/-, 42/-, 84/-, sent anywhere in N.S.W.,
and to any Australasian port, carriage free, on receipt of
P.O. Orders. Amazing testimonials. Names of persons
cured never divulged. Communications strictly con-
fidential.
Orange Butter Co.,
Market Buildings, George-st., Sydney.
Sole Australasian Agents.
Xj adie s.
We Post to any address in the Colonies a pair of our
handsome, engraved Bar Brooches lor stamps, 2/6. Our
Auranian Gold Langtry Fob Chain for Ladies, stamps
2/9; equal to real Gold.
Faulkner & Co., 385 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Shipping.
England via America
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY. MADE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows: —
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON: £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their lugsrage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
AUSTRALIAN GOLDFIELDS,
COOLGARDIE and THE MURCHISON.
The Adelaide Steamship Company’s Fine
Steamers leave Sydney WEEKLY. Best accom-
modation and Lowest Fares. Apply
G. S. YUILL & Co.,
17 Bridge Street, SYDNEY,
BBOU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUBES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS,
SOLD in PARIS bt
J. FBRRE!
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
m
P. O. BOX 920.
Qualified Specialist in the Diseases of
WkjH IVI Nervous, chronic, skin,
■VI Cm IV .and Special diseases of.
Treated with guaranteed success. Weak-
nesses removed and life made worth living
for. Fits, Bladder, and Kidney troubles
cured. Vigor, health, and manhood restored
WOMEN.
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle aged, and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire con-
fidence and success.
All Consultation* Free, and Curable Oases guaranteed.
Vigor Pills for lost vitality, debility and
weaknesses. 55., or 21s. for 5 boxes.
Female Pills for irregularities and obstruc-
tions. 10s. & 20s. per box. Guaranteed O.K.
m
w m
sm i
im
CLOTHED WITH AIH!
Ladies’ Cellular Combinations.
A SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS!
Unshrinkable, Easily Washed and Very Durable.
MADE IN
Cotton* Silk k Cotton* Merino* Wool k Silk.
NIGHT - GOWNS, CHEMISES, BODICES, PETTICOATS
CORSETS, DRAWERS, STOCKINGS, etc.
PRICE LIST and PAMPHLET and all particulars frpm
Cellular Clothing Depot,
305 and 307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Hunter Street).


Miscellaneous.
A FREE GIFT !
Notice to our Country and Inter-
colonial Customers.
AJO matter if you live in town, country, or another
, . c°l°ny, if you have a photo, of yourself or any dear
friend, and you want an Enlargement of it, send it to us.
vJi from U a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
ENLARGEMENT on the Best Ground Opal, size 12 x 10
inches, which, when properly mounted, is suitable for a
frame 21 x 18 inches, and pack it carefully, and pay for
it through the new parcels post right to your very
door, for 10s. 6d. The usual price for this same
“Jing in Sydney is Three Pounds Three Shillings
' j “?•/; .We are doing this as an advertisement,
and while ifc lasts it is a chance of a lifetime. Under-
stand, there is no condition of framing or otherwise. All
you have to do is to send your Photo, and your Name and
Address, and your 10s. 6d., and you will quickly get your
picture, which we guarantee will charm you.
Now, every man who has looked through a camera, no
" n. e he the greenest amateur, knows perfectly
well that this cannot be done for the money in the ordi-
nary way of business. Query—Then why do it? Answer
We want to put out a limited number of our enlarge-
ments each year as an advertisement.
Or if you have a Photo., and you want more of it, send
It to us; we will copy it and send you Six Enamelled
Cabinets and your own Photo, for 6s, 6d., or 12 ditto ditto
for 10s., post paid.
When in Sydney, if you will sit to us for one dozen of
Our liighly-finiahed Cabinet Portraits at 10s. per dozen,
TaXnmit y° u wit h a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
finrtTT\iT^n?r LARG,EMENT of yourself on the BEST
GROUND OPAL, FREE OF CHARGE.
A GUARANTEE.
It Isi well known in the Photographic Profession through
the whole of Australesia, and by every man in Sydney,
*“ *5 , ave the Largest Photographic Studios, Offices,
ana Works, ana employ by far the largest number of
artists and workmen in the Southern Hemisphere. This,
we think, is a sufficient guarantee that we will send out
none but the very best production possible in each case, as
we are thoroughly alive to the fact that each Picture
against us. We cannot afford to be careless.
CAUTION.—As we have no agents in the country, don’t
give your Photo to anyone, but send it straight to us ; it
™M ID ?Si,AEa O ™E“T coy’TV -THB ORO ™
THE CROWN STUDIOS,
Corner George & Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
IiIGHT. STUONG.
CHI3A.P.
SUNBEAM” O.K.
Price, with Cushion Tyres ... £l4 o 0
„ with Pneumatic Tyres ... 1J 10 0
Complete, with detachable brake, mud-guards and foot-
rests ; ball-bearings to all parts, including head and
pedals; unbreakable spokes; finished in best black enamel,
with parts nickel-plated; strong hammock saddle, spanner
oil-can and tool-bag.
Further particulars fpost free) from
£SDG-S & EDGE,
218 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
INDIGESTION
And Liver Complaint
CURED BY USING
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mr. T. J. CLUNE,
of Walkerville, S. Australia, writes;
“Six years ago, I had an attack of Indiges-
tion and liver Complaint that lasted for
weeks; I was unable to do any hard work,
had no appetite, food distressed me, and I
suffered much from headache. My sk in was
sallow and sleep did not refresh me. i tried
m
I
several remedies and consulted a doctor,
wgLt|>out obtaining any relief; finally, one of
raycustomers recommended Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla; It helped me from the first,—in fact,
afj&r taking six bottles I was completely
cured, and could eat anytliing and sleep
like a child.” •
Ayer’s o T n h r, Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fail
Hade by Or. J.O.Ayer & Co., Lowell,Mass.,U.S A
WE WM AIT’S ATELIER
FOB
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
Sl4 GBOEGE - STEEET
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
J. Hulsert HNTewma.ii
(Late of Oxford-street), Puopbiktob.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz, are for the voice
Oolemane & Sons’ Vie, Ointment is marvellous
Irreverent Melb. man :
TPXOHANGE.—Portrait in oil— Gladstone—oo«t
for good Cows, or Pigs, Poultry. Gift. Rich-
mond.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1826.
iA
I" Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOR
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Business Announcements.
NESTLES FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the lest of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM. —Vol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Pro. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.”—Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S.
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats. Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes:—
J * * s fighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
. This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
. Bis very palatable when taken inf ernally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
JI Perfect Food.
ƒ
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
f
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
I M MILK is made from the
I*A richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use '
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
-Wi. fants. “ The composition of Malted
» Milk resembles that of human milk. 1 '
I — Lancet, April 4, 1891.
• MALTED MILK, as a food for In-j
1 111 valids, surpasses all other light diets. ’
1 Being most nutritious and easily!
assimilated, it is constantly pres-!
cribed by the Medical Profession !
In England and America. “ Very !
palatable, and free from adulterants.” j
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891. !
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate. <
Of all Chemists and Druggists. i
Wholesale Agents
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Malted Milk €o., 39, Snow Hill, London, E.C.
Bodalla Cheese
CATJTIOIT.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
Bears the Registered Brand of the Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent:
ALES OF the convict system.
PRICE-Is, ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
JOHN SHE All WIN,
229 Sussex Stkket, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
33ar IVoue.
n OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEM LSI HERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of the colony, com posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc,,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adidt, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, RLieumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any ottier medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’^
Bnchn Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrila
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its escalation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
. Bead this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
t( Statutory Declaration.
. George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows
1 hat I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that 1 have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
two or three glasses of ROW’S
SIEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
t}?P g others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll DiTßitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Read what Medical men say about them—
B JERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveness.
D ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening j a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. 1 therefore thus recommend them.
WOOD, M.D,—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
a equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’P WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Peetotallers will find this newly-invented
lONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EBWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.
Church-goer ; “ Last Sunday, my pastor
dwelt on the familiar commonplace about the
elevation of woman. Now, I fail to see it. Take
up Lander’s ‘Pericles and Aspasia,’and ask how
far woman has advanced since that age. She now
has to battle with man, and because a few George
Eliots or George Sands come out on top, we hear
suph a lot about what she is doing. Ask the poor
toilers and moilers, nob the successful few.”
Thus the Singapore Free Press :
N.S.W. is officially set down as having a total wealth
of £412,484,000—£368 per head. Considering that the
colony is non-producing and is essentially a “middle-
man, that the great majority of the civil Europeans, say
SO per cent, are men on salary and contract, and that the
vast bulk of the population is of the coolie class or only a
grade above (hat, and largely of a migratory or non-
domiciled character, we should not be surprised to find
the private property well under £lO a head.
Next 1
Pondoland, the latest slice of Africa grabbed
by Britain, is a fine tract of grazing-country, on
which J. Bull has for years had his lascivious eye.
It lies on the S.E. coast between “British”
Caffraria and Griqualand West. The Pondos,
bastard Hottentots, are the most miserably super-
stitious of all African tribes. They are run by
witch-doctors or “seers ’’ and, in a minor degree,
by a potentate named Sigcaus. Should the King’s
dog go lame, or some of his cattle be lost, a
, lseer ’’ is sent for and commissioned to “smell
it out.” The old harridan sniffs about and reports
that some one—generally a personal enemy—has
the animal; and the accused is forth-
with mutilated. The reports of these horrors
have shocked the sensitive Bull and, although the
cable doesn t say so, this is probably the excuse
given for grabbing Pondoland, for there doesn’t
seem to be any other.
All N.S.VV. electoral candidates now writ-
ing speeches may include this effective par. from
the speech of Cobar candidate Willis :
My reason for offering myself is not because 1 am sel-
fish ; it is not because I am ambitious and wish to rise at
the expense of the workers, nor is it because I had my
eye on £3OO a year and a free railway pass. If any of
these were my motives then I would he unworthy of the
name of an Australian and a man ! (Hear, hear, and
? P ,fu Se ') My motives are far different, I recognise the
fact that unless fresh men are elected—men who have the
welfare and interests of the labouring masses indelibly
stamped on their hearts—the country will go headlong to
destruction. (Applause.) That is my reason for offering
myself, and now is the time when you should rise up in
your strength—and you are strong, stronger than you
know of and hurl these howling, blatant idiots into
everlasting obscurity (applause) and elect in their stead
men who would legislate in the interests of the people.
(Applause.) L
A Maoriland paper describes the fall of a
once-eminent citizen who lately did the customary
Pacific slope;—
Hb commenced life as a little grocer in one of the
very humblest streets, and he attended loyally to his
business, sanding the sugar and saying his prayers
and coming home to tea with utmost regularity. Then,
' n ., an , , evil moment, Mrs. Johnson persuaded J. to buy a
tali chimney-pot hat and to take a class at Sunday-school.
, “ proved his ruin. It led him into temptation. It
led him on to try for municipal honors. It, like a will-o’-
the wisp, decoyed him into longing for the Mayoralty.
J* rom that moment he was lost. He threw his honest
apron away. He refused longer to weigh out half-pounds
of sugar and ounces of tea. He engaged an assistant.
He put on his coat. Then he took to wearing that hat
everyday and to swelling about the streets. He bought a
bigger but not a better grocer’s business. He built a
villa, and Mrs. J. had her “Hat ’Omes.’’ Then he cut
soap and candles, sold the businesses, and blossomed
forth with forty pony power as a “ land and commission
agent. Then ! 1
“Mrs. J. persuaded him.” The same good, old
wheeze. When a man does anything which turns
out successful he always did it himself, and when
he does some utter foolishness it always transpires
somehow that his wife persuaded him. “ She
offered me the apple and I did eat.”
Testimonial received by the Australian
agents for a well-known and much-advertised
patent remedy :
Dear Sir,— l have suffered for many years from lumbago
and other rheumatic affections, and at last began to con-
sider my case incurable. I tried many doctors and paid
large sums in fees, but with no appreciable benefit.
Sometimes I was a little better and sometimes a little
worse, but on the whole the doctors did me no service. I
also tried a good many patent remedies, many of which
were said to be infallible for my complaint, with the same
reSult '* ast “ friend urged me strongly to try your
world-famed cure. I was reluctant at first, being about
tired of medicines, but ultimately I consented. 1 tried
six bottles altogether. It didn’t do me any good either.
You ought to be sent to gaol for getting money under
false pretences. Your medicine is a fraud, and the
testimonials you publish must be bogus for no one could
be cured by such rubbish. I will call on you
some day when I am in town, for I want a
good look at the hog who has the effrontery
to advertise such a thing. Why don’t you give it up and
be a burglar, or something honest, instead of swindling
the halt and the blind and the bed-ridden f I wouldn’t
like to be seen dead in the same street with you.
Yours, &0., . *
The above is probably a fair sample of the joys of
being a patent-medicine fiend. It would be
interesting to know bow many such documents
come to hand and are judiciously suppressed. The
unpublished correspondence of a patent-medicine
man should be lovely reading.
The successful removal of Piles of the
most stubborn description is being effected by
Sharp’s new “Cannalin” treatment, large quan-
tities of which are being forwarded to sufferers
throughout the colonies. It is obtainable, with
advice, from 257 George-street, Sydney.


Coleman© & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
“LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
ƒ
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK,
AND
EVERY
CONCEIVABLE
SHADE,
FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
‘ LOUIS ’ Velveteen
is essentially a ladies’
material, and surpasses
all Fabrics for the
adornment of women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WEIjIj. -Each yard of genuine
“ LOUIS ” Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped
with a guarantee of wear. Ladies should reject all
substitutes.
Widow Welch’s Pills
TfOR FEMALE COMPLAINTS. Mrs. Smithers,
Grand daughter to the Widow Welch, continues to
prepare this celebrated Medicine from the only original
and genuine Family Recipe. Its just celebrity for all
Female Complaints has obt ined for it a most extensive
and increasing demand. aPtirchasers should, therefore,
attend to the following CAUTION. To be careful that
what they purchase is prepared by Mrs. Smithers, whe
is the only person in possession of the Original Recipe.
The genuine are wrapped in Blue Paper, and signed on
the Outside label by Mrs Smithers, and the names of the
Sole Wholesale Agents, “W. Edwards and Son, 157
Queen ViotoriaStreet,” formerly of 07 St. Paul’s, London,
are engraved on the Government Stamp.
Sold in boxes, at 2s. 9d. each, by most Chemists.
WHAT CURES PIMPLES
esa&SZ
The only really successful prevent-
ive and cure of pimples, blotches,
blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin,
and most complexional disfigurations
is that greatest of all Skin Purifiers
and Beaulifiers, the celebrated Cuti-
CURA Soap. For irritating and scaly
humors of the scalp, with dry or fall-
ing hair, red, rough hands, chaps,
painful finger ends with shapeless
nails, and simple humors of the skin
and scalp of infancy and childhood, it
is simply infallible.
CUTICURA SOAP
A marvellous beautifier of world-wide celebrity, CuticurA SoAP is simply incom-
parable as a Skin-Purifying Soap, unequalled for the Toilet, and without a rival for
the Nursery. Absolutely pure, delicately medicated, exquisitely perfumed, it produces
the whitest, clearest skin, and softest hands, and prevents inflammation and clogging
of the pores, the cause of pimples, blotches, blackheads, red and oily skin, and most
complexional disfigurations. It derives its remarkable medicinal properties from
CuticurA, the great skin cure, but so delicately are they blended with the purest of
toilet and nursery soap stocks that the result is a medicated toilet soap incomparably
superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and sur-
passing in purity the most noted and expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. For the
prevention of facial blemishes, for giving a brilliancy and freshness to the com-
plexion, and for cleansing the scalp and invigorating the hair, it is without a peer.
Sale greater than the combined sales of all other skin soaps. Sold everywhere. 25c.
Skins on Fire
with Itching and Burning Eczemas, and other itching,
scaly, and blotchy skin and scalp diseases, are relieved
by a single application, and speedily, permanently, and
economically cured by CtltiClir3. ReiTIGCIIGS f greatest Skin Cures, Blood Purifiers, and
Humor Remedies of modern times. Price: Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, 50 cents; Cuticura
Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier, $l.OO. Prepared by Potter Drug
and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S. A. All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and
Hair/* 64 Pages, 300 Diseases, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent*^
r.jat”
TAYLOR BROS.,
248 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
ORIGINAL and SOLE MANUFACTURERS
of the Celebrated
f
AUSTRALIAN NEEDLE-WOOD PIPES.
PRICES (Silver-mounted and Vulcanite Stems)-4/6 5/6 6/6 Amber Stems and Cases from 10/6 each.
State Shape when ordering 1 .
NEEDTjE-WOOI) is vastly superior to anything yet discovered.
TRAYLOR BROS, are prepared to return the money to any gentleman who, on trial of Needle-Wood Pipe, can con-
L scientiously declare that it is not the Best, Sweetest, Coolest and Dryest Pipe he ever smoked ’s the opinion
of every purchaser so far. Pipes sent to any part of the world (post free) on receipt of Postal Order for the above pr ces.
Makers of Amber and Vulcanite Mouthpieces. Pipes Repaired.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH.
A greet with, the moat
delicate persona.
or
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF AM SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
Simply Delicious with
STEAKS, CHOPS, COLO MEAT, FISH,
, SOUP AND ENTREES,
Makes Cold Meat a Luxury .
THE PLAINEST VIANDS PALATABLE.
Blends admirably with all Gravies.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
The most delicious Sauce in the World.
Sold Retail by all Grocers, &o.
Wholesale-TILLOCK & CO.. KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE A CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD
POWDER
Makes the Richest Custards
In a few minutes
WITHOUT EGOS.
The HOUSEWIFE’S BEST FRIEND.
Saves trouble, and is far more
economical than Eggs.
MAKES A VARIETY OF DAINTY DISHES.
Sold by all Grocers, Stores, &c.
DELICIOUS
JELUES
In a few minutes by using
Boodairs Jelly Sqnares.
The Squares are complete In themselves,
and are sold In the following Flavours:—
LEMON, ORANGE, RASPBERRY,
STRAWBERRY, VANILLA, PINEAPPLE,
BLACK CURRANT and RED CURRANT.
WONDERFULLY HANDY.
EASILY MADE.
One trial will ensure their always
being kept in the house.
Sold in Boxes containing Half-Pints, Pints,
and Quarts, of all Grocers and Stores.
WHOLESALE TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors:—
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE &> CO.. Leeds, En^lanril
Prospectus.
MONSTER
FREEHOLD FROFERT7
Distritantlon.
£59.401 Worth of Freehold Property.
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue :
59,401 Shares of £1 Each.
NO LIABILITY.
Committee of Management, Queensland;
C. W. HUDSON, Esq., M.L.A.
j. T. ANNEAU, Esq., M.L.A.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P.
Committee in N.S.W.;
P. CLARKE, Esq., M.P., Maeleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., Ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
ROBT. HAYES, Esq., Kempsey.
Bankers:
The Commercial Bank of Sydney.
Solicitors;
Messrs. THYNNE & McCARTNEY.
118 PRIZES as under:
Ist Prize, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643;
2nd prize, £6724; 3rd prize, £6OOO ; 4th prize, £6813;
sth prize, £3OOO ; 6th prize, £2720; 8 prizes from £2560
to £1650 ; 13 prizes from £BB5 to £5O, 23 prizes of £45
each ; 49 prizes of £26 10s. each ; 19 prizes of £2O each.
List Closes 31st March,
All moneys received are banked to credit of the Com-
mittee without deduction.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of Properties. Application for
SHARES must be made to the Secretary, BARRON
L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street, BRISBANE; or
“Secretary,” care of C. SMITH, No. 24 Imperial Arcade,
SYDNEY; or “Secretary,” care of J. RICHARDSON,
W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom all particulars may be
obtained. Enclose two addressed envelopes with un-
attached stamps ; add exchange if cheque sent. Register
letters.
Business Announcements.
CHAS. ANDERSON,
TAILOR,
30 & 32 Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
Best Materials. Perfect Fitting.
MODERATE PRICES.
Patterns, Prices & Measurement Forms
ON APPLICATION. .
ƒ
LADIES’ HATS.
—)x(—
MADE TO ORDER
—)x(—
ANY WIDTH BRIM,
From 3s. 6tl.
mmueemßam
TERA.I.
PRICE, Bs. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
With Puggaree, 8/- extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DREFSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send tor price. We alwa>s have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers'
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &o.
ANTIQUE Oil. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE.
680 683 George Street, Sydney,
OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received. LATER than 1 p.nx. on
TUESDAY.
The question, “ What constitutes a ]our
nalist ? ” has been settled to the satisfaction of a
Queensland R.O. cleric, who, in a recent sermon,
described the scribe as “a man you pick out of
the gutter and can buy both body and soul for a
glass of rum.” It was possibly this variety of
“ journalist ” who wrote in the Australian (R. 0.)
the attack upon Gresley Lukin, which cost the
paper about JlllOO.
At one small S.A. township, where there
ja no courthouse, the Government hires the
Anglican church to fine drunks in, at the moderate
rental of ss. per week. The justices sit round the
communion-table, and the drunk is located in
the front pew. Then the arresting constable gets
up in the reading desk and fills the sacred edifice
with an account of the horrible language the
prisoner used when ho was arrested, and the
echoes of it get lost among the recesses of the
roof, whence they emerge to curse unexpectedly in
the midst of next Sunday’s service.
Blowitz, of the Times, relates novelist
Barrie, was not present at a certain conversation
between Bismarck and Rosebery, but he wrote
about it. Later on Rosebery met Blowitz and
complimented him on the report. “ Ah, it was
all right, was it ? ” asked Bowitz beaming. “No,”
replied Rosebery, “it was all wrong.” “Then, if
Bismarck did not say that to you,” remarked
Blowitz regally, “ I know he intended to say it.”
Colonel Olcott, the wavy-haired Theoso-
phist—he looked like a cross between Charles
Bright, Canon Kemmis and the late Major Nel-
gon—who lately visited Australia, talks of him-
self and Mrs. Annie Besant“ We may, I hope
and pray, henceforth resemble in this movement
the Aryan god, who is dual when looked at from
two aspects but when properly understood is but
one and indivisible.” Madame Blavatsky was in
the habit of treating the gassy Colonel with
scant courtesy. She was known to interrupt one
of his long-winded and unintelligible discourses
with the very affectionate and gratifying remark,
“My dear, you are a fool!” Which he was. But
as he was also a pompous old fellow and good-
looking, they “swallowed ” him and hung on his
words. For all his words conveyed, they might
as well have hung on to a goat’s beard.
Dear Bulletin, —Be Judge Windeyer’s
proposed adoption in Australia of the French
criminal-identification system-this may interest
your readers. Measurements are taken of, 1,
height; 2, arm-spread ; 3, head-length • 4, head-
width; 5, mid-finger of left hand ; 6, left foot;
then eye-colour is referred to lof 7 shades. Thus,
Ist measurement of a suspect directs investigator
to a particular batch of photographs ; 2nd do., to
a certain section of that; 3rd, to a subdivision
again of that, and so on, till, when the “ final ” is
reached, the prisoner has only to be compared
with half-a-dozen portraits or so, instead of with
as many thousands. There is a case on record in
which, out of nearly 7000 photographs, the only
one left after the elimination was that of the
prisonerhimself! “The French are so unpractical,
don’t you know !”— Millimetre.
All the rage in Paris. Send 13 penny
stamps for latest Parisian preventative. National
Drug Co., Russell-st., Melbourne.
Nearly every paper in Maoriland recently
received a circular from an utterly unknown
Englishman named Smith, or Jones, or something
to that effect, which circular the editor was re-
quested to publish gratis in his news columns as a
matter of public interest. This document sets
forth at great length that the aforesaid nonentity
is about to visit Maoriland, that his great object
in doing so is to see his beloved mother and sister
who live somewhere in the province, and to visit
his father’s grave, which is also located there. All
his relatives are in big capitals, and so is the
grave. He adds that he is “ aged 44, active, and
a temperance worker,” and that “he may easily
l>e persuaded to take up his permanent residence
in the colony, and after a time seek the favour of
I e oming a member of the House of Representa-
tives, or any office where he can be of ser-
vice.” An accompanying photograph represents
a straggly, goggle-eyed person, with wild-looking
whiskers flying loosely in the blast. The photo,
is also intended to be reproduced gratis as a
matter of public interest.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmnssen’s advt. on page
19 of this issue.


'
Hill
Petty’s Family Hotel* Sydney*
WYNYARD SQUARE;
la UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Large, well-ventilated Sedrooms.
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladies’ So Gentlemen's Dining So Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’Hfite as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
Business Announcements.
MERCER'O
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at once
proclaim
THIS
3VIAN-
T
HEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
■Worlf3.-reixown.eca!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s,,
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
Bank of Van Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION.
grand Tottery
Conducted by GEO. ADAMS (“TattersaU’s") as Sole Agent.]
300,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 372 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
Apply Early.
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limited.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SIDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Bteaxu Eiu.glxi.es, Boilers, 0-a>a Elugiuea,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
ta- Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 Apart-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &>c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W, and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director,
THE
1 Plum ’
plO
Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly'hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend this brand to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to its merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
n . I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Cd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Pnce {Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
Fire Mis Us at Lowest Mates .
ƒ
Hbad Offices;
—9s—
Street,
Sydney.
SUBSCRIBED
i, -
CAPITAL,
2U0.000
„ w
S>J
<r /
Directors:
Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
{Chairman),
y Hon. JOHN T. XOOHEY,
M.L.0.,
X JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
X JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
y" SPECIAL FEATURES.
a a It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
Invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT HERE, Manager.
T ZEE IE
PERMAHEHf TRUSTEE CO.
—OF —
NEW SOUTH WALES, Limited.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
CAPITAL :
Subscribed, <£1,000,000: Paid-up, £25,000.
Board of Directors:
The Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C., Chairman.
Hollo A. Cape, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
W. C. Goddard, Esq. Josiah Mullens, Esq.
Lesley George Herring, Esq.
THIS Company acts as Executor, Adminis-
trator, Trustee, Attorney, or Agent in the
Management or Realisation of Estates or Invest-
ment of Funds, and is prepared to take over
existing Trusts.
Solicitors for Trusts transferred continue to act
for the Trust.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
Manager.
Telephone No. 1207. Offices —Imperial Cham-
bers, 16 O’Connell-street.
STATIONERS’ HALL CO.
(C. E. FULLER & CO.)
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED i
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d.
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, good quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good quality, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.
OFFICE APRON PILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each.
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographic Pens, 2s. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from SJd., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, More. Leather, from 6d.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONERS' HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
386 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached t > the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
Banking.
THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
rpHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(limited).
Hsad Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £300,000
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND 23,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Sank of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid-up .. £200,000.
Rbsbbve Liability ~ 250,000.
Head Office - Brisbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Sank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital ~ £3,000,000
Paid-up Capital, as on the 15th December, 1893 1,625,380
Reserved Fund, as on the 15th December, 1893 1,103,845
Directors;
Thomas Buokland, Esq., President.
Jambs R. Hill, Esq.
J. T. Walker, Esq.
James Milson, Esq.
Thomas Cabell, Esq.
Robert 0. Close, Esq.
Auditors:
P. W. Uther, Esq. James S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects (or
its customers dividends o( public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on theirbehalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all, customary banking
business.
. The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
Medical.
Teeth.— a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes: —“The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effeetive
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
pose free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours : from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beetn Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &«.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF 4 CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
niasseT & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS, t
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY. YOUNG. N.S.W.
Loudon & Melbourne Tailoring* Go.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
We are the Originators of the famous SCOTCH and WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED SUITS
TO MEASURE at 45/- TROUSERS, 12/6.
BOUND CORKSCREW SUITS, 50- .. .. TROUSERS, 16/6
The FINEST QUALITY in SERGES from 50,- .. TROUSERS, 15/-
Country Customers please WHITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS.
LONDON & MELBOURNE TAILORING CO., 31 Ershine Street.
S. M. BAUMASHE, MANAGER.


The Bulletin
Per/istered at the General Post Office, Sydney, r or transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 14-Mo. *739,
SATURDAY, APRIL 14, 1894.
Price, 6d.
MILfRTR**
JfoJ Hjt, W-C-T-U:
arm
s
(I
0 ? pA
,
\u
\\l A 7
' "
a'ttTfetkfc,
'fdWarcf
MnuJ,
ji rW “y V'
f / aUj)cg O J) < -
CHRISTIANIZING THE POLICE. AS PROPOSED BY THE W.C.T.U.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
jPer Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0186
Quarterly ... 0 6 G
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
't his offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tim Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
A Jews Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: 11. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid, There will be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 14, 1894.
Notice to Litigauts.
A few weeks ago The Bulletin appeared in
the courts as defendant in a libel-suit.
There were no points of special importance
in this particular suit, in fact it was about
as plain and as profoundly solemn as any-
thing of the kind could well be ; and the
case is alluded to here, not by reason of its
intrinsic interest, but merely as a gi-otesque
example of the costliness of the law. And,
even in this respect, it was an exceedingly
ordinary event and much less grotesque an
example than the average, and the only
reason why it is selected as a text is that the
bill of costs is readily available, whereas in
many other cases, which might have much
more effectually pointed a moral, that
awesome document is not in The Bulle-
tin’s, possession. The trouble in question
arose through sundry complimentary re-
marks which this paper passed upon a Mr.
(John) Marsland, of Melbourne. The re-
marks were strictly complimentary—or,
at all events, they were so intended—but,
through a confusion of Christian names, the
subject of them was mixed up with another
Mr. Marsland, then in legal difficulties
through sheltering a fugitive banker. The
Bulletin had no possible animosity against
—in fact, nobody directly connected with it
had ever even seen—either of these gentle-
men ; and, on learning that a mistake had
been committed, it was perfectly willing to
apologise (as a matter of fact it did at once
fully and freely apologise), and pay reason-
able compensation for any injury that had
been done.
» • #
The plaintiff, however, had the misfortune
to be cursed with the possession of certain
friends, who strongly advised him to take
legal proceedings and claim a much larger
amount in damages than this paper was
willing to pay. If the result proves any-
thing in particular, it proves that no litigant
should have friends. The ideal litigant
is an orphan and absolutely without relatives
or acquaintances or well-wishers of any kind
to advise him to his own undoing. Mr.
Marsland, therefore, took legal proceedings
and was awarded £lOO damages and costs.
The damages were about twice as much as
The Bulletin was qirepared to offer, in the
first instance, and without litigation; and the
bill of plaintiff s costs as presented to defend-
ant by plaintiff s lawyer amounted to exactly
£459 2s. Bd. Therefore, it would appear
at first sight as if plaintiff had profited con-
siderably by his recourse to the law. The
average litigant always regards a verdict of
£lOO and costs as £lOO actual cash, and only
learns some time afterwards that it almost
always means a dead loss, which loss may
amount to anything from a few pounds up
to thousands.
* # «
In the first place, plaintiff s bill of costs
was “ taxed ” in the usual fashion by the
prothonotary. The business of this officer
is to strike out of the account all items
which he regards as inadmissible. In the
present instance he struck out £273 11s. Bd.,
which means that out of Mr. Marsland’s
legal expenses The Bulletin, which had
lost the case, had to pay £lB5 11s., while
Mr. Marsland, who had won it, was left to
pay the balance, £273 lls. Bd. Therefore
his verdict of £lOO was immediately swal-
lowed up, and Mr. Marsland was still
£173 lls. Bd. out of pocket in actual
cash on the whole deal. There was
nothing exceptional about this—in fact, the
situation, so far as plaintiff was concerned,
was rather more favourable than is usually
the case. No plaintiff who understands the
utter ■ incomprehensibleness of the law ever
expects to get anything*out of a libel verdict
—in fact, he has no reason to expect any-
thing good out of any kind of a verdict. The
awarding of costs is, at the best, little more
than a formality. The process of “ taxation ”
almost always leaves the winner to pay a
large portion of his own bill, and it must be
a great and gorgeous verdict in a most econo-
mically-conducted case where the damages
awarded cover even the winner’s share of
the expenses.
» « »
But even this is not all. In addition to
the fact that the successful litigant seldom
gets more than half the costs which the
Court nominally awards, there are others
which the Court does not even profess to
award him. These come under the head of
special costs between solicitor and client, and
their amount is eminently uncertain. In a
small and very ordinary case, however, they
easily amount to £lOO or more. Therefore,
the ordinary libel verdict is practically to
the effect that plaintiff has been wronged by
defendant, and that the Court therefore grants
him £lOO damages, and leaves him to pay
his own costs to the extent of, perhaps,
£350. The legal victory is thus a minus
quantity of £250; the successful litigant
never receives one penny of the alleged
verdict; his time and trouble and anxiety
all go for naught, and he is possibly harried
and sold up and made bankrupt and prac-
tically fired into the street by his solicitor in
his efforts to recover the balance of account.
This is the blissful prospect which the law
holds out to the man who wins a libel suit,
and even if winning were a matter of abso-
lute certainty there is nothing in it to induce
any person who is clothed and in his right
mind to unnecessarily resort to litigation.
But even this joyous result is an uncertain
thing and hard to arrive at, and it is only by
much effort that a plaintiff achieves that happy
condition in which the damages awarded
him are all annexed by his attorney, and he
has mayhap to borrow from the usurers to
pay up the rest of the costs. The law is
wonderfully and hideously uncertain, and
courts are full of surprising decisions, and,
as-a consequence, there is absolutely no case
on earth which is so good thac success can be
counted upon with anything like certainty,
or any case so bad that it may not crush a
dividend—for the lawyers. Therefore,
while the best the average plaintiff can hope
for is that the damages awarded him will pay
part of his expenses, there is always a pos-
sibility that he will be awarded no damages
at all, and will be ordered to pay the costs
on both sides, and will be ruined by two
solicitors instead of one. Or, again, even
in the event of success, defendant may
prove to be insolvent, and the verdict may
be irrecoverable ; or he may appeal from one
court to another, and either get the verdict
reversed, or pile up expenses till his
opponent is compelled to drop the case from
sheer financial exhaustion ; or he may drag
it out with all the hundred different delays
and postponefnents which the wealthy suitor
can always command, till his opponent fades
away from worry and that old age which
comes of long-continued disappointment.
* « *
Therefore the plaintiff, under ordinary
conditions, has four separate prospects
before him : (1) He may lose, no matter
how good his case may be, and be ruined
with bills of costs ; (2) he may win in the
first instance, and be afterwards cheated
out of his verdict through appeals and
legal technicalities, and be ruined also;
(3) he may win and fail to recover any-
thing, owing to his opponent’s insolvency—
in which case he stands in much the same
position as if he lost—and be ruined ; and
(4) he may win, and get a verdict and costs
—that is to say, what the Court terms costs,
but which are only a fraction of the real out-
lay ; and get his verdict paid promptly, with-
out demur, to the Uttermost farthing, and
still be ruined in the same old way. The
man in humble circumstances who takes pro-
ceedings in the higher Courts, where the
expensive horsehair barrister must be laid on
before the legal mill will begin to revolve, is
tolerably certain to be ruined in any and
every case. The only man who has any sane
or reasonable hope of making anything
out of law-proceedings is the one who
can conduct his own case—the gritty
individual who knows enough law to
be his own barrister and his own soli-
citor as well —who is a practised speaker,
s > that he can put his own case as effectively
to the jury as any costly Q.C. could do, and
who has the requisite nerve and presence of
mind to hold his own against an array of
arrogant legal authorities who are calculated
to strike terror into the inexperienced. Also,
in addition to all these qualifications, he
should be a person with no wife or family, or
other ties of any kind to hamper his move-
ments, and with no assets which he cannot*
pack at the shortest notice into his carpet-
bag, so that, if things go against him, he can
fold his tent and steal away, leaving his
opponent’s unpaid bill behind him. To such
a person a law-suit may be a legitimate
gamble ; to anybody else it is profound and
unspeakable foolishness.
The Bulletin has not, and never had,
any feelings towards its late antagonist, Mr.
Marsland, save those of perfect good-will.
It had no personal quarrel with that gentle-
man, and was perfectly willing to recognise
that it had unwittingly done him an injury
and to compensate him for it, had he been
disposed to negotiate without recourse to the
law-courts. Also, it is not now squealing
over its monetary loss—it only resurrects the
story of the case as the most readily avail-
able example of the utter iniquity of the
existing legal system. The cumbrous
formalism of the civil law and the extortions of
the close legal corporation have made justice
a commodity which overwhelms the just
and the unjust both alike. In a very large
proportion of the cases which come before the
superior courts thelegalbrotherhood swallows
everything, and the nominal winner and the
nominal loser lose pretty much alike. The
civil law, in fact, exists for the benefit of the
legal brotherhood, and when it is satisfied
there is practically nothing left. If the
amounts of all the verdicts given in any one
year in all the superior civil courts of Aus-
tralia, and all the legal costs connected there-
with, were added up, it is almost safe to
assert that the costs would be very much
the larger item of the two every time. If
now and then there should be an exception
to this rule, then something has gone wrong
with the legal machine, and it wants to be
overhauled and repaired.
The Opium Bogey.
That keen advertiser, Mr. Quong Tart, the
Scotch-Chiuese gentleman who, in displaying to
the world the ethical and commercial value of
Presbyterianism has earned the undying love of
his countrymen, has started another crusade
against the opium traffic. Quong Tart’s
spasms of public virtue appear to culminate in
ten-year cycles, the last of any importance
being in 1881, when a police sub-inspector went
round the New South Wales Chinese camps
with the strict Q.T., and made eleven recom-
mendations, among which prohibition of the
opium traffic had no place whatever.
* • *
The terrible iniquities of the opium traffic
exist only in the imagination of the wary
Quong and his friends, the old ladies of
both sexes. The 1884 inspector shows this
when he says in one breath that all Chinese
smoke opium, and, in the next, that the New
South Wales Chinese, with few exceptions,
deserve the character of belonging to the most
industrious race in the world. The evidence
taken before the Royal Commission on opium
in India has shown it over and over again.
There is overwhelming proof that opium-eaters
are not more base, or weak, or vile than other
people ; that opium does not rob them of their
health, strength and spirit; and that without
it they couldn’t endure the tyranny of a rule
which has crushed them with taxation, crippled
them with debt, and exacts a tribute of
£18,000,000 a year in gold. Gov. Des Yieux,
formerly of Hong Kong, with as wide an experi-
ence of Eastern nations as any man living,
affirms that opium, no doubt, like alcohol, does
harm in cases of inordinate excess, but to the
very great majority it is, to say the least,
innocent. The shame of the traffic from India,
which Miss Ackermann and the shrieking sister-
hood work for all it is worth, is a pure fiction
to make the cash flow into missionary coffers.
The opium imported from India is far too dear
for most Chinese consumers, and most of the
opium used in China is grown on Chinese soil.
Victoria, the capital of Hongkong, has a popu-
lation of 150,000 crammed into a space two
miles long and J-mile broad, under the most
insanitary conditions, in a much hotter climate
than Sydney, yet the death-rate of recent years
has been 22 per 1000—only 3 per 1000 more
than Sydney. Sir Thomas Wade, formerly
British ambassador at Pekin, says England has
not supplied China with 5 per cent, of the
opium consumed during 120 years of trade. To
stop the trade would be the same as declaring
in England that all forms of tobacco might be
imported, except Havanna cigars, and all forms
of alcohol, except French brandy.
* # #
Opium-smoking is conceded to be worse than
opium-eating, but that is not the point. The
point is that “human life is subject to such
manifold wretchedness that all nations have
invented a something, liquid or solid, to pro-
duce a brief oblivion. Poppies, barley, grasses,
sugar, pepper and a thousand other things,
have been squeezed, pressed, pounded and
purified, to produce this temporary happiness.”
If you could succeed in taking away opium
from the Chinese they would find a worse
substitute. But in Australia, at any rate,
this is impossible. Opium is so small in
bulk and so easily smuggled, and there is such
a length of unguarded territory, that it would
be utterly impossible to prevent its introduc-
tion. The only effect of forbidding the traffic
in New South Wales would be to raise the price,
and make the Chinese poorer for the benefit of
their Queensland and Victorian kindred.
/ * * #
When the astute Quong Tart says that on
opium rests all vice, immorality and corruption
with the Chinese, he talks deplorable nonsense.
If with every thousand male Chinese landed in
Australia comes but one Chinese woman, the
demoralisation of European women fol-
lows as a matter of course. It is evident
that the opium agitation has no basis.
But if Quong Tart and his abettors will go
a step further back—will prevent, instead of
trying to cure, and suppress, in place of the
opium, the Chinese who use the opium, The
Bulletin will back them up for all it is worth,
knowing that, in spite of individual virtue, the
Chinese in the mass are what America has long
ago found them, a cancer in a civilised com-
munity ; and a degradation and a danger to
white manhood and womanhood in Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Voice from Cootamnudra.
Mr. 0. H. S. Chauncy writes indignantly from
the far-off wilds of Cootamundra (N.S.W.) :
Dear Bulletin, — A paragraph appearing in your issue
of 17th march as to solicitors who misappropriate trust
moneys is sheer rot, and you must well know it, unless
you are blind, deaf, and dumb. You wind up by saying,
“the attorney who embezzles should go to gaol”—and
don’t they go to gaol? What about Broad's case, quite
recently ?—but I suppose for the sake of sensation it suits
you to forget that. You are not alone amongst the
Sydney press in writing balderdash about the privileges
of the legal profession. Some years ago the D.T. raised a
howl on the iniquity of the system whereby a certain soli
citor could only be struck off the rolls, instead of being
imprisoned. The real fact is that solicitors are liable
with everyone else to the same punishments under the
criminal law for the same offences, and the penalty of
being struck off the rolls is an additional one which
attaches to solicitors and not to others. You can “ jug ”
a butcher, or a journalist for the matter of that, but you
can’t take his occupation for ever from him. The
“privileged ” solicitor, as you call him, is, however, liable
to both punishments, and if the aggrieved party chooses
to select the latter and leave the former alone, that is
entirely his own look-out. Where are your privileges
now? The fact is that the word “privilege” is first
cousin to the word “monopoly,” and both these words
suit your tone so well that you can’t resist the temptation
to make use of them, even at the expense of the facts.
The Bulletin desires to say a very few words
in reply to this infuriated contributor. First
of all, in 99 cases out of 100 the dishonest
attorney doesn’t go to gaol. The ordinary
swindler gets there pretty regularly, but the
“jugging” of the legal swindler is almost as
rare as a snowball in Gehenna. Broad’s case,
which involved a very large sum, was one lone-
some incident in a century. The regular pro-
cedure is for the swindle to be proved up to the
hilt; then for the Judge, with tears in his
eyes, to suspend the offender for six months, or
two years, or more, and after that the Crown
Prosecutor, or Attorney-General, or whatever
it is, closes the other eye and does nothing.
The fact that fraudulent solicitors are “ liable ”
to go to gaol doesn’t matter so long as they
don’t go. For the rest, the ordinary clerk or
book-keeper who does a term in Darling-
hurst or Pentridge has his occupation taken
from him about as successfully, in the
great majority of cases, as if he was
“ struck off the roll ” also. Moreover,
the solicitor’s profession isn’t altogether
taken from him ; he can still be a law-clerk, or
he can practise—provided he can get clients—
under cover of the name of some needy attor-
ney who hasn’t been struck off. Furthermore,
in a very large proportion of cases, the legal
robber only suffers a temporary suspension ; he
is merely forbidden to practise for 12 months or
so in cases where the common lay thief would
be sent to prison for three years sure. The
Bulletin recommends these facts to the serious
consideration of the irate gentleman from Coo-
tamundra, and trusts that he will think over
them hard.
“ Evidence as to Character.”
A few days ago Judge Stephen (N.S.W.) rose
in insurrection against that ghastly farce, “evi-
dence as to character.” It was about time.
When a prisoner has been proved to be an
exceedingly bad character, the defence calls
certain people to testify, in effect, that they
weren’t aware of the fact till it was discovered.
Then the Judge or magistrate has a favourable
opening—if the prisoner is a friend of his, or a
friend of a friend of his, or a person of influence
or “ respectability ” —to reduce the sentence
to a minimum on account of “ previous good
characteror, if the prisoner is nobody in
particular, he can point out in a stern tone of
voice that he is being tried for his crime,
not for his previous character, and that
the latter has absolutely nothing at all to do
with the case. “Evidence as to character”
is the device by which the w'ell-connected
criminal dodges the law; it is practically
of no use at all to the person with
no connections, for its value depends en-
tirely on the status of the person who gives
the evidence. Thus the prisoner of “social
standing ” calls a Cabinet Minister, a parson or
two, and one or two wealthy bankers and
politicians to solemnly testify that they didn’t
know he was a bad character till it became
known, and the average judge is impressed by
the assurance of their ignorance ; but when
the other kind of person calls a hawker, a man
who is out of work, and two pick-and-shovel
labourers to swear to exactly the same effect
their ignorance produces no impression what-
ever. The court simply concludes that they
look like the sort of people from whom
ignorance might be expected. Evidence as to
character, in fact, is simply an attempt to
corrupt the administration of justice. Every
person can find a large number of important
people who didn’t previously know any-
thing against him; it is only a question
of bringing sufficient influence to bear
upon them to induce them to state the
utterly ridiculous and uninteresting circum-
stance upon oath. And this is where the social


difference comes in, for while the man of
“standing,” who has been bowled out, calls
evidence as to character, in the case of the man
of no standing a policeman simply gets up and
reluctantly admits that there are no previous
convictions against the prisoner. Which is just
tlie same tiling under another name. Even
when ten influential citizens of vast circumfer-
ence get up in succession and testify as to
character, it really only means that there are
no previous known convictions against the
prisoner.
A Religious Crisis.
The great and godly Chirnside family, of
Werribee (Vic.) district, has, in effect, ordered
a new Presbyterian shepherd for its private
soul. It is not generally known that the
Chirnside monarchy takes a deep interest in
religion, but such would seem to be the case.
Eor the past three years, then, these lamentable
capitalists have glared with disfavour upon the
local pastor, who depended upon them to the
extent of £l5O a year and a manse. He was too
broad, or not deep enough for the reigning De-
fender of the Faith and Court, or, perhaps, his
interpretation of certain psalms differed from
theirs —at any rate, they have been compelled
to attend the Church of England, “much
against their inclination,” rather than shed
any further glory upon the ministry of their
vassal. Finally, they intimated their intention
to withdraw the subsidy of £l5O a year, and
close the manse, unless the Rev. White be
hurled from his present pulpit within a given
period. Failing obedience to this latter in-
struction they will go over in a body, accom-
panied by a full band, to the Church of England
aforesaid. It transpires that the inferior mem-
bers of Mr. White’s flock, more especially the
denizens of Little Riverand Lara, approve of him
altogether, and, therefore, disapprove of the
Chibnsides in this spiritual matter. Geelong
Presbytery sent a deputation to enquire, and
the deputation reported that any shifting of
Rev. White would be, in worldly parlance,
“ rough ”on their respected brother. Several
alternative lines of policy were suggested—
firstly, “To take no action.” This would mean
that Mr. White’s salary will be reduced to
£l5O (the proud squattahs found half the in-
come, seemingly) without a manse, that the
Chirnside family will withdraw from the
Presbyterian Church, and that a number of
families who recently came to the Werribee
(and are under Chirnside influence ?) will be
lost to the Church. The inevitable results of
taking no action were too shocking to contem-
plate, so the Geelong Presbytery decided
to adopt another alternative —to with-
draw Mr. White from the Werribee por-
tion of his charge, and provide him with
a new church and residence in the neigh-
bouring district. By this ingenious device
the Chirnsides will be preserved to the Pres-
byterian faith of their ancestors, and left at
liberty to take another parson for their pro-
perty on approval. Henceforth no outside
interests can clash with the sovereign desires
of this delectable family, and any symptoms of
insubordination on the part of the new man of
God will ensure his instant dismissal. Once a
week he will call upon the lord of the manor
to enquire whether he has been preaching the
kind of “ Worrd ” that suits the family, and if
the family has had a bad Saturday afternoon
at the races, they may possibly get very cross
indeed with his Word. In fact, there is no
feeling certain, from this time forward, that
the Chirnsides will not suddenly form a sort
of fashionable theatre-party for joining the
Church of England. After which, the deluge !
“ A Shilling’s-worth of Sand.”
James Hynb, charged with removing soil to the extent of
o.ie shilling in value from the Daniel Cooper estate, was
fined 55., besides being ordered to pay the value and 4s.
lOd. costs, or 21 days. Sydney paper.
Daniel Cooper, aided by the law, received
hundreds of stolen acres of the public estate,
aud now gloats in luxurious absenteeism upon
the unearned increment. Yet nobody attempts
to bring that thief to justice. Daniel Cooper
does not even pretend to use for any useful
human purpose the earth thus legally stolen;
the Lean Man who carried off a shilling’s-worth
of sand proposed to increase the wealth of the
country by its use. Civilisation surpasses
savagery in stupidity. It would be a healthy
object-lesson for the democracy if 1000 unem-
ployed Sydney men would proceed in file
to the Daniel Cooper estate and steal
(Heaven bless the term !) a shilling’s-worth
of sand therefrom, seriatim, and “ take
out” the 21 days’ apiece. It would be
healthier still if some means could be found
by which the absentee Cooper could be made
to pay the country for the maintenance of such
thousand while in gaol. At almost every
Christmastide, one or more poor devils—
respectable heads of working families, as a rule
—are dragged before property-reverencing
salaried magistrates, under the pretence
of administering “justice,” for “stealing”
a few useless weeds from this same
Daniel Cooper estate, for the purposes of
Xmas decorations. There lie eternally the
ranges and gullies of heath-growing sand, im-
potent in ugliness, barren of all useful vegeta-
tion, shut out from all human use, and awaiting
only the trickery of the syndicate-mongers
who, watching the pimply spread of bricks and
mortar in the metropolitan area, will rig a land-
boom, and offer the greedy absentee thousands
of pounds sterling for every farthing which the
Daniel Cooper estate has cost him. Gigantic
robbery ! And how the mammoth robber pul-
verises the petty thief ! How his myrmidons
guard his shilling’s worth of sand !
A City of Desolation.
Melbourne Age has been exploring the more
utterly wretched suburbs of wretched Mel-
bourne, in order to test the accuracy of Premier
Patterson’s assertion, made over many expen-
sive public banquets, that the alleged distress
is exaggerated and unreal. The tale which that
papers unfolds is a harrowing affair, more like
a st £ r y of Jerusalem at the siege than a sketch
ot the biggest city of the youngest country upon
earth. Down in East Brunswick the Age struck
a new boom - township where there is no
drainage, no roads worth mentioning, and
where the houses, built five years ago of broken
brickbats and sand, are tottering wearily at all
sorts of angles, with their windows mostly gone
and their doors banging on one hinge, or propped
up with boulders. Many of these are let gratis
to an almost naked race of unemployed, who, in
return for the accommodation, scare oft' the
land-pirates who want to take the fences away
for firewood. No one has a full suit of clothes
in this locality, and very few have quite half a
suit. They sell tea, sugar, and most other
things by the half-pennyworth now in this land
of desolation, and when a householder buys a
whole pennyworth of anything at a time grave
doubts are entertained as to whether the coin
was honestly acquired. Then the Age started
to investigate South Melbourne and returned
with an even more ghastly report. “ Half of
South Melbourne is starving ” was the verdict.
This is another region where almost every
kind of food is sold by the halfpennyworth
because no one has a whole penny at one time.
In these two suburbs and in Richmond
the population consists mostly of women,
and most of them half-naked women with
no visible means of support. The men
are all away wandering over the country
looking for work and finding none. The
working-class suburbs look like Paraguay
after the war, when the male population was
practically extinct. There are women every-
where—prematurely old, tattered, gaunt, bony
and despairing. It is an unspeakably horrible
picture, and whoever has seen it longs to rise
and heave a brick at Patterson when that
iron-jawed politician gets up after the perpetual
banquet to state that it is necessary to take a
cheerful view of things, and to congratulate the
fat and shiny Gillies upon his “ services to the
country.”
Montgomery and Williams, the two Sydney
burglars, who grievously banged five policemen
in their efforts to escape, have been sentenced
to death. The capital charge against them was
“ wounding with intent to murder,” and no
sane individual believes that they did wound
with intent to murder. They simply wounded
with intent to get away, and the crime was one
which called for 10 years’ penal servitude. At
the same time, it was no worse than dozens of
other crimes which have ended in all manner of
sentences varying from six months down to 40s.
The case which, of all those within The Bulle-
tin’s recollection, most closely resembles it was
that of two rowdies who, two years ago, or
thereabouts, assaulted, as a mere matter of
amusement, a passing citizen in the neigh-
bourhood of Rushcutter’s Bay, Sydney, and
kicked him so brutally that he was laid up
for several weeks. The case was set down as
common assault, and the offenders were fined
either £2 or £s— The Bulletin doesn’t remem-
ber which for certain, but it inclines to the
idea that it was £2. The difference between
that 40s. episode and the matter of Mont-
gomery and Williams arose partly out of the
fact that the more recent case was accompanied
by a burglarious inroad on Property, and partly
out of Premier Dibbs’ uncalled-for interference
with the course of justice. But, so far as con-
cerned the assault—which was the only ques-
tion in the indictment—there was no difference
between the guilt of the men who are to be
hanged and that of the men who were fined
40s. New South Wales justice is a spasmodic,
hysterical affair, and is always wobbling
miserably between the gallows and 40s.
Will Sydney ratepayers note that Aldermen
Hughes, John Harris, Wayne, Landers and
Ives are the minority who don’t see why the
sisters and cousins and aunts of aldermen, and
their friends, and their friends’ friends, ad
infinitum, should get free tickets to the Town
Hall organ-recitals ? And will ' they note also,
for use at next elections, that all the other
aldermen are in favour of maintaining a system
which makes the average citizen pay for his
entertainment, and sends in for nothing the
aldermanic prot6g6, who can very well afford
to pay, too. Eight tickets for every concert
are sent to these aldermen, and some of them
get a good many more. At least 400 shilling
tickets are given free every week to the aider-
men’s pets, equal to £lO4O a year—or twice the
salary of the organist ! “We must have our
little pickings !”
The bank-clerk is still utilised in Australian
courts as a signature-expert in preference to
the lithographic artist who, as a professional
copier of signatures, is surely more likely to
know what he is talking about. The other day
in a Sydney will-case three bank experts swore
that a certain signature was forged, and another
swore it wasn’t. The gist of the matter is this ;
The bank-clerk “ expert ” merely gives his
opinion as to whether a supposed forgery is like
or unlike the genuine signature. If the imita-
tion is a good one, he is as often wrong as right.
The lithographer, on the other hand, can tell
with the aid of a magnifying-glass if a signature
has been “dashed oft” or laboriously copied.
In nine cases out of ten forgeries come under
the latter category. Few forgers possess the
rare gift of dashing off a colourable imitation
of a signature. Such a forgery will usually
puzzle the owner of the signature himself, and
there is probably not an expert in the world
who could detect it by a mere inspection of the
handwriting. Most of the Maoriland Judges,
it may be added, call for lithographic artists as
experts in forgery cases when their services can
be obtained.
♦
The latest election manifesto of the N.S. Wales
National Ass is an interesting document. It is
full of all the white-haired drivel which has
done duty on so many previous occasions, and
nearly every solemn wdieeze in the Tory vocabu-
lary is there represented. The National Mule
calls for “ sound progressive legislation,” and
the removal from Parliament of * “ men of
shallow capacity ” evidently meaning the
Democratic party —who have created “ general
want of confidence” and caused “capital to be
withdrawn from investment.” Also, it calls
for the return of men with “ high intellectual
and business capacity,” and “upright, able,
thinking men,” and it wants to have payment
of members abolished. Good old Ass ! Its
manifesto sounds like a bumble-bee droning in
a tank, or the sound of the bag-pipes in the far
distance. It has nothing definite to pro-
pose save the election of men of great
stomach-circumference who haven’t seen their
own feet for many years past. It wants white-
hatted men with short legs —men who exude
oil in the hot weather and mop up their smok-
ing heads with large silk handkerchiefs, and
who sleep in their talk and have a solid stake
in the country. Toryism pins its faith to the
short, elderly man with large drops of perspir-
ation standing out on his bald head. If it could
raise a generation of thin Conservatives there
might be some hope for it, for the thin man
looks progressive and the people are deceived
thereby, but the Unnatural Ass distrusts the
thin man, and the country distrusts the fat
man, and so there is a general deadlock.
A new horror has been added to Australian
whisky. The liquor sold by a Sydney
“ hotel ”-keeper was so “strong” that
the gas blew the cork out of the sample
flask, and paper and straw became charred
when dipped into certain ingredients re-
covered by the analyst from the flowing
bowl. What becomes of the drinker’s
stomach when it is acted upon by
such ingredients is a matter for deep
thought. Also, when the whisky blows the
cork out of a flask there is always the possi-
bility that it might blow something out of
the customer. Further, it is an admitted
fact that prohibition leads to secret drink-
ing and the sale of inferior grog, and if N.S.
Wales has got down to sulphuric acid, and so on,
without prohibition—well, there is room for
much foreboding as to the future. When
licensed whisky, sold under State supervision,
blows the cork out, the other kind will probably
lift the roof off and wreck the entire street. In
this case the publican was fined £2O and costs,
which seems a very feeble proceeding. The
man who sells explosive liquor should be classed
with the man who throws explosive bombs
about, and be treated accordingly. Also, it
would be good to enact that when a publican or
other tradesman is convicted of adulteration, he
should be compelled, as in certain parts of
continental Europe, to affix to his front doors
for a month or two the legend in flaring letters:
“John Smith, of this establishment, was fined
£2O for poisoning the public, and ordered to
exhibit on his door for 30 days this record of
his infamy,”
That “one-count” verdict for the plaintiff in
the Speight v. Syme case was objected to on
the high legal ground that no verdicts could be
accepted by the Court during January. Lawyers
armed with Acts and bundles of Rules main-
tained that Justice must necessarily lie torpid
at certain times of the year, especially January,
and that, although a jury might give a verdict
and a Judge might accept it, there was no such
Judge or jury existing at such period within
the pure and beautiful knowledge of the Law.
How honourable the institution that breeds
such arguments ! Strange to say, the objection
did not hold good. An objection tending to
new trials and more expenses is very seldom
dismissed, but in this instance the Law did not
convict itself of doing something unlawful,
as in the Davies grand-jury quash. Two
Judges discovered, after some little trouble,
that they are entitled to sit “every day
of the year and all night long ” if the
emergencies of public business require it. Fixed
vacations are, as a rule, expressions of judicial
contempt for public business. Important suits
are hung up, to the great mental and financial
distress of litigants, in order that Judges may
go fishing, and the “usual adjournment over
Saturday ” is, in at least one case out of five, a
scandalous shame. Why is the legal working
week fixed at 30 hours, less five adjournments
for luncheon ? Because the custom-ridden
public submit to be swindled without consider-
ing where the swindle comes in. The shorter
the day, the more frequent the barristers’
“ refreshers,” the longer the lawyer’s bill, the
greater the chance of the Court rising early,
in order to start fresh next morning,
and so on. When will the public learn
that the law is their servant, not their
master : that it has no authority for the most
of its oppressive arrangements, and that
the first duty of a law-abiding citizen is to
demand a decent, honest exercising of the
power he has agreed to sanction ? Why do we
put an enemy into our Law Courts to steal
away our money ? Where is a Society for the
Suppression of Legal Abuses ? Why does the
average respectable dullard have such an
obtrusive Respect for the Law, the while that
he possesses enough sense to warn his friends
not to go to law on any account? ’Tis a
question which, if printed in tract form and
distributed throughout the country, might
possibly set a few million fools thinking.
It is cabled that “the proprietors of the Salford
Ironworks are so satisfied with the results of
one year’s experiment with the eight-hour
system for the workmen that they intend to
make the system a permanent one. The Times
urges the whole of the engineering and other
skilled trades to adopt eight hours.” Here is
an extract from the report of the Chemical
Works British Parliamentary Committee of
Inquiry (Oct. 1893) :
Attention is called to the long hours of work in some
departments of alkali works, and the adoption of the
eight hour shift is strongly advised. At the works of
Brunner, Mond & Co. (one of the largest, if not the largest,
in Britain), this system has been in force for some time,
and has resulted in a great improvement in the condition
of the health of the men employed. In 1889, before the
eight hour shifts were introduced, 10T2 per cent, of the
employes were in the doctor’s hands; in 1891, only 54
per cent, had to be attended. Brunner, Mond & Co. add
that the cost of wages paid per ton of alkali produced by
them is now no more than it was four years ago, in spite
of the fact that the men employed on shift work are paid
the same wages for eight hours as they were formerly
paid for twelve. This improvement they attribute partly
to the improvement in the apparatus used and partly to
the increased efficiency of the men due to their better
health and spirits.
• —♦
“ It happens,” says S. M. Herald, “that New
South Wales is the only province that does not
separate the intention from the act of murder,
and it may be hoped that the fate of these two
dangerous men (burglars Montgomery and
Williams) will carry a wholesome lesson to
their fellows, that New South Wales is the last
country to be visited by anyone who thinks of
making a livelihood by violence." First, it is
wrong to say “it happens.” The fact referred
to is one of design. The question was discussed
and re-discussed, and half-a-dozen Hansards are
full of the arguments for and against. Secondly,
the phrase “ intent to murder” is a mere legal
dictionary expression, not indicating that the
party concerned intended to murder, but that
he committed an act which code
takes the liberty to construe into intent.
Thirdly, when the Herald, smacking its lips,
hopes these sentences to death will prevent
other violent people from coming to New South
Wales, it ought, logically, to advocate the
death-penalty against all manner of evil doing.
Then all Australia would be like the S.M.
Herald office.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communication* which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS,
“H. 0.”: May use “R,”; but strengthen
thought and don’t over-refine .. “ Paul Mell ”: “ Soul ’’
unsuitable....” M. Holmes”: “Blis” wants point and
pith “Q.” : Don’t lean up against “ Ironbark ;” try
and stand alone .. “Wombat”: Wants 100 per cent.
better treatment “W.J.8.”: What is “cyphering
smoke?” Can it write and parse as well? “A.W.":
There’s money in such poetry if you can write enough to
do for rabbit-poison. “Tim Bobbin”: (X) “Coals”
good idea ; lift it out of common-place metre. (2) Never
before.. ..“Inca”; Dull stuff... . “ W.H.T.” (T.L);
Thanks... “0.N.E.”: Trivial “Isaac”: We shall
never cease to regret that Abraham was interrupted
“ P.H.”: Reads like the fag-end of a 15th century sermon
“Veronica”: Can’t say till we see; send stamps
for return “Misogynist ’: Zealous, not clever
“ W.R.W.” : Not exceptional. In almost all the kirks the
books bear the same inscription “S.L.”; Rolling a
woman down hill in a spiked barrel, in the name of lynch
law, was not a bit more brutal than the treatment ex-
tended to the Mount Rennie prisoners in N.S.W. in the
name of Justice and Civilisation. The spike-business was
a lot more honest, that’s a 11... “ Brogan ”:As it doesn’t
follow that because a man committed suicide he was
insane when he made his will, the validity of the will
depends entirely on the state of testator’s mind, as dis-
closed by evidence, at the time the will was executed. ..
“Subscriber” : We don’t deal much in ancient history.
Another thing—we try to please ourselves. The parsons
denounce us—and so do the priests. The priest and his
superiors, however, are on the average much better men of
the world than the parsons. See, for instance, how care-
fully the Pope and Co. refrain from interfering with
the rational Sunday amusement of their people 1 Their
troubles how Rafferty spends his Sunday afternoon so
long as he goes to mass in the morning... “Semicolon
ylsill ” : We print your pleasing and jolty poem:—
.... “A." : There is an unpleasant scmnohiness about your
poem. Every verse sounds like a skull being ground up
with a big grindstone. It is the epic of the bone-mill
“ Diogenes ” : Epigrams mostly suffering from spinal
curvature ...“Tom Gayndah”; You say “Oh, for the
referendum and a people that is up to date." Great
Scott! The people are up to date ! They always have
been, but the date has seldom been up to anything
“Charles P." (Mackay): On the whole we would advise
you to hold on if your policy matures in ’97. The concern,
we believe, is very hollow, but there is every chance it
will last till you get your money “Rene Isendi”:
You are not going to weep for your lost girl in this paper
except by prepaid “ad.” in the patent-medicine column....
.... “J. Mayson ”: It can be argued that the murderer is
Providentially made such, that he may be saved
“ M.M.”: Woman having annexed the breeches will, of
course, dispense with divorce-suits and breaches-of-
promise “A. 0.”: A tract is a gratuitous insult—it
starts out on the presumption that the reader is either a
drunkard, a burglar, a murderer, a bigamist, or a horse-
thief, and prescribes for him on that basis. ...“Towel”
(Maoriland): Jokes too nasty for publication. Under-
clothing isn’t necessarily humorous “0.G.” (Bris-
bane): Weather joke interesting, but unprintable
“Blacksmith” (Willow Tree): Sleath didn’t make that
remark to Purves ; it was only the remark which he
should have made. The Bulletin made it for
him. Hardly anybody thinks of the right re-
mark till afterwards. Often he never thinks of it at
all; the idea only strikes his executors “The
Bunyip ”: That story was old before the Pyramids were
built “Treble X.”: Thanks... “Sulphide”: Poem
tolerably brutal. The Bulletin doesn’t want anybody’s
corpse on the premises “West Coaster”: The mine
has led a fitful existence for many years, and has died
and phoenixedagain and again to no purpose “Hill”'
(1) Not interested, and, therefore, unable to give any
reliable opinion. (2) Know of nothing for a certainty
“Jorey”: If, having phthisis, you start to cure yourself
with sulphur-fumes, you may get a fit of heavy coughing
and break a vessel “ Finn " : The Irish are going tin
wrong way to get sympathy. The Liberals honestly strov*
to pass Home Rule last session ; surely they are entitled
in return to a little assistance with the measures for whitf
the English democracy clamours.
“US-TRALIA.”
(An ALLEGDRY FOR PERSONAL USE.)
On a section, God-forsaken and forgotten,
Some half-a-dozen cart-loads of humanity were dumped,
Foetid, tainted to the core, diseased and rotten—
In one naked load of nastiness, all specimens were
lumped!
They were left to reek and rot,
For the carters cared no jot
If they blasted all the section with their blight 1
Xho’ there breeded worm with worm
Till the mass began to squirm,
For the present they had put them out of sight!
But soon upon the muck-heap grass was springing,
And curtaining with verdure all the festering, foetid
place !
Its arms to sunnier skies more freely flinging,
Manured by muck arose a young and self-reliant race !
And that race will grow and grow,
And let the nations know
How that putrid and polluted may be pure;
And declare to all, although
Tis ’now buried far below.
There was stamina and strength in that manure .
Will use shortly “Oma”: If
genius is generally epileptic or mattoid, the Christian
Temperance Woman is always anaemic and hysterical. To
err once in a bacchanalian and barn-dance way would
probably cure her body and save her soul in many thou-
sands of instances “ Timi ” : Lacks vigour ~.“T.
M‘S.” ; Another injustice to Ireland “ D. M‘D.” : The
bushranger theme is worn to tatters “W.W.”; Joke
too tiny “T. M‘D.” : They met the Inevitable—and
passed.. Enquirer”: River frontages, alas, are generally'
sold with the land, right to the water’s edge... “Lone
Hand”: Hardly up.,.. “Outcast”: Some promise;
motive too crude “J.M.” (Cooktown); Will keep to
work up ; pars, welcome “ Lefair ” : Not sting enough.
“Evans Swamp": Some hope; but get away from
hackneyed themes.... “ V.H.M.” : Rather good ; interest
too indefinite “T.H.M.” : The mountain-fountain tree-
sea style of ballad died early in the century. R.1.P....
“G.A.W.”: Weak “Sardius”: Thanks ; send along...
“Chummie”: Be famous:—
“ the sun ad set behind the lonley hills
and the day ad closed once more
the night owels call loud and shrill
vviist the dingowes owel in scores
neath a seder tree wee lay
in blankets that are wet and cold
wating for the coming day
to clime those mountains boald
wee have dimed ore stoney ridges
and gaised on loftey watter falls
wee have crosed creeaks without bridges
that the bravest would apall
but now amongst the leaches
wilst the fire is birning low
we lay with paled feature
that once were all a glowe
and wilst I ham a scrawling
trying to dot those virces down
close by a snake is crawling
for oure camp fire he as found
but let us have a smoak
and pass the billey round
we can easley stand a joak
a patch of seader wee ave found.”


M. & H. WOOLF & CO.,
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants,
HAVE
REMOVED TO 376 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY (lenern] Post Office next door).
f igr- Tiiis IP/•;/•;A', send for Box of 100 Indian Cigars
tS.>enc(T a H'*avy Weight), 15 4.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
-A. Good axxdl Cheap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD;
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
:Sfii
• 1-f /a**-
Manufactured by
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
PAYEKNE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
Clifford Lane : Letter for you at P. 0.,
Newcastle.
In Pitt-street, Sydney, on Tuesday last, a
van drawn by a good-looking horse drove up and
down, placarded on either side: “ This complete
turn-out, horse, van, and driver, ill a week and
tucker.”
According to cables, possible land-grant
railway-syndicates fight shy of MTlwraith on the
question of survey expenses. This is Nemesis
with a vengeance. Evidently the fate of Feild-
ing’s ’Bl transcontinental syndicate has been
marked and digested. The MTlwraith Govt,
solemnly guaranteed this syndicate’s expenses,
but before the cash was paid Griffith got in and
wouldn’t hand over a cent. The repudiation of
’Bl has more than a little to do with the difficulties
of ’94, Money has a long memory.
Oh! draught divine, that adds new life—breeds
mirth—
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Where shall I quaff thee ? Horace! thou shouldst
know ?
Why, in the Boar’s Head Brand of Innes and Go
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
April 11, 1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Mayoress Manning’s hugely-attended reception
in the Tovyn Hall on the dim date of Tuesday
before last is now nearly forgotten by the crowds
of people who fought pitched battles at the
buffets, tho’ possibly the woman who broke her
parasol in the pursuit of pastry, thereby paying
at the rate of ten and sixpence for a sausage-roll,
has still lively recollections of what footballers call
the “scrum.”
1 have now but the faintest notion of what any*
body wore, but there seemed to be fewer back*
numbers present than usual, and about one man
appeared to the millinery mile. The hostess, who
received at the main entrance to the beautifully-
decorated hall, wore an English-looking visiting-
dress of seal-brown satin cloth, velvet and fur,
with bonnet to match, which became her to a T,
as her favourite colour should; the London
JOURNAB-looking Mayor also lent a hand in a very
actual sense, and Miss Felicia Manning, in teru,
contrasted with claret-coloured velvet, helped to
reassure a lot of people who came in looking as if
“beyond lay the Star Chamber.”
A new idea at this reception was that the big
hall was strewn with chairs, which, however
acceptable to the aged, made the affair as dismal
as an afternoon organ-recital, and rather broke
the back of sociability at first, A mildly-funny
incident was when a little fuss of people paraded
in at the doorway and Wiegand, at the organ,
struck up into the “Faust” music, a number of
people started to their feet, mistaking it for the
National Anthem heralding the Governor ! But
the most awful part of that little error was that
anybody could mistake even half a bar of Gounod’s
masterpiece for “Godsave.”
X hear that at a fashionable resort, last summer,
His Excellency of Barataria committed a very
dismal blunder. A ball was given, and the
hostesses of the evening—all leading society
women—received the vice-regal party with open
arms and posed ’em—l mean the party—on the
dais ; but guess the surprise of the top-creamy
assemblage when, before eleven o’clock, the V.R.
posse swept out of the hall without one word of
adieu to their entertainers, in stiff retreat, as if
her ladyship had caught some pretty woman
winking at the Gov. in a manner contrary to the
Act in that case made and provided.
At the first opportunity the chief hostess
politely demanded a reason for the sudden vice-
regal withdrawal before supper (which, en paren-
thfcse, had been especially well-put-up in honour of
the gubernatorial presence). Imagine her sur-
prise when she was told, “Oh, we left because we
didn’t think there was going to be any supper!
If we had known, of course ” Future com-
mittees are advised to include the information
that supper will be on the tables at 11 p.rn. sharp,
if they want to keep His Ex. trimming the dais
after ten-thirty.
After all, there is a great deal in a name, and if
Strauss had christened his “ Blue Danube” waltz
“Homage to Cooma,” as Miss Mary Noonan
names a waltz she forwards me, I don’t think
even that exquisite melody could have caught on.
Though, as a matter of plain truth, if the “Homage
to Cooma” waltz had been christened “Love’s
Loudest Hug ” it wouldn’t have helped it much,
for it is a weak-knee’d jingle not always in
harmony, and with only one movement —the third
—in which there is any approach to rhythm.
.Another lady sends a “Cecilia Gavotte,”
dedicated to her mother —probably because she is
the only person who wouldn’t hit back—and the
list of home-grown music closes with a Reverie
and Berceuse by Daisy Cfaamier. I like both
these morsels —especially the cradle-song, which is
melodious and reposeful, the change of scale from
one to five sharps and vice-versa being very
smoothly managed. The only mistake in the
Reverie is the name. In music people don’t dream
in gavotte time to “ vivace ” sign-marks.
People who grinned at the notion of the Maori-
laud Women’s Rights wedding, at which, it was
widely alleged, the bride wore knickerbockers, will
probably regret to hear that she did nothing of the
sort. A woman who had the muoh-talked-of
welding garment in her hand tells me that it was
simply the old familiar divided-skirt, which much
resembles the ord nary skirt unless the wearer
happens to be stepping out like the party in seven-
league boots, or posing in a high wind —and that
the scene at the altar was as humdrum as possible.
Between “Lady HarVrton’s ” and brazen bifur-
cations there is a great gulf fixed, and it is pleasant
to think that the Maoriland bridegroom may yet
await his little bride without fearing the
Ih * audience may have to look at her through its
fingers.
It is five years since the busy B.’s staged
“ Dandy Dick ” in Sydney, so many points of that
broad and racy comedy came freshly to the over-
flowing audience at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday
evening. They don’t dress “Dandy Dick ” as
heretofore, although Mrs. Brough, as the turfy
George Tid, wore the identical racy rig in the first
act, but which somehow didn’t look so sporting as
of yore. Since first Mrs. B. cocked her Derby
hat rakishly at a Sydney audience the Block has
rendered unto us even more weirdly-mannish
ladies than the part-owner of Dandy Dick;
although Mrs. Brough has her checkered vest out
straight without fitting, a realistic touch you never
find in the most inexorably tailor-made girl in
real life. The average woman in a cut-away coat
never looks convincing while she belts herself
into 19 inches, and a damsel whose coated and
vested trunk infers that she wears a skirt under
protest, but who yet clings to the hour-glass out-
line, is as hopelessly feminine as something in
frills “from neck to knee.” George Tid’s slops
look as if she really meant it.
In the second act, Mrs. Brough, in a fiery-hued
silk, didn’t swamp old memories of a grey and
saffron confection, like jonquills in a mist, that she
was wont to wear, but her race toilet of neatly-
filled tobacco-brown fitted as slimly as ever.
Emma Temple, in a neatly-fitting tackle, took
Florence Harcourt’s part as Salome, and looked
more like a Dean’s daughter than the fluffy Flor-
ence, who ran to pale-blue tea-gowns and only
wanted a cigarette to look like the female villain ;
and ohirrupy Brenda Gibson played the toy child,
in pink with starfish bows of black velvet, with
all her old elfishness.
But few of the men are dandies in “Dandy
Dick.” Titheradge (I think he makes a more
hypocritical Dean than Anson), in episcopal
gaiters, suggested that he had bandaged his legs
on the mummy principle, and Mr. Carey’s
Baronet looked like a book-agent. Cecil Ward
and Chichester displayed much millinery as the
young officers (one of whom Emma Temple calls
“ lef-£en-ant,” by the way), but let no man laugh
at them in their weird fancy dress, for they are as
representative a pair of society youths disguised
in the garb of forgotten monarchs, as you need
sample. I have never seen a man yet who could
carry off a pair of lace-edged knickerbockers with-
out looking like a Chinese scarecrow, and the only
thing which makes me doubtful of the success of a
handsome Sydney society lawyer who is going on
the stage is that I once saw him in red velveteen
as some wicked duke or other at a club ball, and
haven’t forgotten the spectacle yet.
The position of the man whose wife finds a
golden hair on his coat after a “club-night,” is
joy itself compared to that of the Sydney fashion-
able dancing-master who went into court to defend
himself on a charge of slander, brought by a
married lady, whom he had accused of frisky
backslidings from the paths of conventional pro-
priety while pirouetting in his halls of dazzling
light.
The awkward part of the dancing-man’s posi-
tion was that, to gain his case, he had to make it
appear that his academy was a place where dancers
weren’t shattered by hiccoughs in the mazy waltz
as a general thing, nor did any lady ever retire into
a shadowy corner to be hugged between the dances.
But yet—to show up the alleged frisky frivollings of
the plaintiff—he had to do his level best to prove that
it was possible to be intoxicated, and exceedingly
amorous, on his bees-waxed premises if you felt so
inclined, without being run out on the pavement
—which is not a nice impression to get about with
regard to a fashionable dancing academy.
The jury assessed the damages at .£3OO for the
plaintiff, though, when you come to think of all
that was said in court, it strikes you that neither
party gets very much change out of the trouble.
Temperance hinders a multitude of winks. It
amused me to read the other day that a gentle-
man “and his wife” had presented to Miss
Ackermann, the tea-apostle, a cheque for a thou-
sand pounds. “ And wife ” makes all the differ-
ence, of course, though I suppose the wife’s part
consists mainly in lending her name for publica-
tion, as a guarantee of good faith. Women, you
see, rarely give one another anything but hypo-
critical kisses and fancy-work, but I can’t help
appreciating a calling which enables a spinster to
take a thumping cheque from a man (and wife) to
purchase a home in her old age. Miss Ackermann,
I see, has generously given the <£looo to a fund
for establishing a head-quarters in Sydney for the
W.C.T.U.
However, the sinners get testimonials as well as
the saints. When a barmaid at a fashionable
Sydney hotel left, the other day, a testimonial of
about 200 sovereigns was got up amongst the
habitues as a mark of respect and esteem. Where
is the woman who would not rather thus receive a
sovereign apiece from 200 men than a cool thou-
sand from one (and wife) ?
It strikes me that a most effective way to abolish
barmaids, and, in fact, to utterly close the bars,
would be for all the ogresses of the W.C.T.U. to
turn Hebes and preach sermons over the counter
to thirsty unregenerates. No man would deny
the abominations of the barmaid system who had
ever been received by a W.C.T.IJ. tabby in his
favourite hotel. Then there would be no vague
metaphor about “ the horrors of drink.”
To most women the strongest indictment against
barmaids is that most men will have it they are
• good and charming creatures. Man’s praise is
always balanced by woman’s blame. If Mr. Dash
told Mrs. Dash that Tottie, who has all the other
fellows raving, ought to come to her for a wrinkle
in frizzing her front hair, I’d bet a banana that
Mrs. Dash would walk slowly past that pub. so
that Tottie might view the masterpiece ! It is
men’s hot championship of Tottie that has given
rise to this fierce feminine longing to abolish her.
In the case for wife desertion brought against
Christie Murray, in London, the novelist admitted
living at Kensington with a girl who had left
Melbourne in his company. I am told that the
girl’s family were so sure of her hymeneal status
that, on the occasion of an addition to Mr. Mur-
ray’s new family last year, they had the event
duly advertised in both the Melbourne papers.
That “ wife of Christie Murray ” won a musical
scholarship in Victoria, and her feet and their
motion were as dainty as those immortalised in
Suckling’s verses.
A certain Australian Judge, on a visit to another
province, once advertised persistently for a gover.
ness, and held out such high terms and rosy pros.
peots that numerous charming girls, whose people
had come down in the world, made application.
The Judge’s advt. may have been but the ruse of
a gallant visitor desirous of feasting his eyes on
the local beauties, or it may have been a legitimate
effort to study humanity; anyhow, one of the
applicants, a very pretty girl indeed, after being
fooled to a certain extent, spoke out her mind.
“Your Honor,” said she, coyly, to the delightful
old family man, “I’m afraid I won’t do. I only
want to be a governess; what you need is evi-
dently a Judge’s associate.”
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Melbourne Confidences.
Melbourne, April 10, 1894.
Talking of eyes reminds me that Lalla Miranda’s
departure is drawing very near. She farewelled
at the Town Hall on Saturday. Musical wise-
acres declare that the migration of this pretty
song-bird has been too long postponed, that her
voice is gone already, her high notes have degene-
rated into shrieks, and that her physique —she
looks not a bit more fragile than Adelina Patti —
was never made to stand the wear and tear of
systematic training. Ah, well! Time will show,
and, at all events, Lalla will ever have much to be
thankful for in the face she uses so cleverly.
Ada Crossley was not nearly so fortunate in this
respect, and when she first came out, and before
she had acquired her happy knack of successful
dressing, the contralto used to look most prosaic
as she stood singing straight ahead, in a matter-
of-fact sort of way. Her parents are not romantic
either, I believe, though they dwell in the depths
of Gippsland, where they “run” a “bush inn.”
The family boasts a younger daughter, whose
singing voice is said to be even more promising
than that of her popular sister. We badly need a
few such “ finds ” to console us for the loss of
departing favourites.
Vera Goad warbles tunefully, but she is married,
and, in consequence (though this rule has many
skittish exceptions) dispenses with ornamental
airs and graces; while (Sara Lewis, who is also
joined in the bonds, is said to find her lack of
musical ear a sad drawback to the success of her
really fine voice.
There has been quite a boom of uppercrust
engagements lately. No woman relishes the idea
of being the last rose of summer, so when one
bud is swept into the vortex of matrimony, the
rest of the cluster generally do their best to
follow. The last names sent in for “announce-
ment ” are those of Miss Simson and Mr. Ernest
De Little.
The Hopetouns spent part of their late bush
holiday at Caramut, Mr. De Little’s country
home. The visit seems to have been attended
with good results, as not so very long ago their host
was supposed to be “wearing the willow.” In
any case that sort of thing soon palls on human
nature.
It was at Caramut that Lady Hopetoun made
her most recent canine purchase. Getting up
early one morning she sallied forth with her gun
“in a homely, even jolly way ” (see Argus account
of the Governor’s driving tour), and feeling hungry
en route shot some duck for breakfast. The birds
fell into the water, and, notwithstanding her appe-
tite, the Countess didn’t feel inclined to earn her
repast by a swim. Just then she caught sight of
a rabbiter’s hut and soon made her way to its
lowly portal, where, rousing the inmates from their
slumbers, she requested them with characteristic
bonhomie to lend her their dawg. The animal
proving equal to the occasion, landed the game in
first-class style, and found so much favour in the
sight of his patroness that she bought him from his
sordid owner for the sum of £7, and led him
away to more high-toned surroundings, where he
is already learning to flash his ivories at the
proletariat.
A host, whose domestic staff comprises only a
“plain” or family cook and a combination house
and parlour maid, might be expected to quail at
the very idea of a lengthy vice-regal visitation. A
young squatter, so circumstanced, who, with his
sister, lately entertained a Government House
party, is said to have sustained the ordeal with
the haughty aplomb of a hundred-vassaled Lord.
The leading lady of the occasion, being fond of
cold baths, made a practice of changing every
item of her apparel whenever she came in from a‘
hunting, shooting, or fishing expedition, which
sometimes happened three or four times a day.
One can imagine that the laundry presented a
scene of incessant activity during her visit, but as
both she and her inferior half were ready with
“tips” and displayed no weaknesses in the
matter of cookery, except one harmless little
passion for scones, Bridget and Emma are not
drifting into anarchism.
As seen at recent concerts, Charles Saunders
still boasts an amiably adipose aspect. I read
somewhere, the other day, that “Fat men are not
forceful.” Perhaps not, but they are good-
tempered, which is more to the point, when one
considers the ordeals by button and collar, the
conflicts with starch and stud, which beset male
human nature. Caesar showed his sense in saying
“Let me have men about me that are fat,”
because he would naturally prefer to sit with
Romans who laughed at his jokes as though they
were really funny. Even if the plump person be
stupid, so much the better; geniuses, as Mrs.
Carlyle proclaimed for the warning and instruction
of her sex, are not domestic sunbeams. There are
too few of the species (Geniuses, I mean) in Melb.
to point my moral, but the only one who really
acts up to the character became a grass-widower
after half a year’s matrimony, and he is as thin as
a whipping-post.
To return to Mr. Saunders, people say he is as
good-natured as he looks. Certainly, the other
night, he gave one the impression of unalloyed
benevolence as he stood talking to two pretty girls
in the front chairs, though that goes for little.
Charles’s tenor songs must be a liberal education
in the art of looking sweet. He is used to
“ taking ” a pair of sparkling eyes, and to imper-
sonating a pilgrim of love who hasn’t reduced his
girth by walking.
At a Wangaratta concert, some time back, th e
plump tenor won golden opinions by his obliging
conduct in reeling all his songs straight off one
after another, when, owing to an unexpected
summons to Sydney, he had to leave early to catch
his train. The audience was insatiable and en-
cored him every time. At last he tore himself
away, and the girls were just beginning to feel
sad when *he suddenly re-appeared and an-
nounced beamingly, “I find I have four minutes
to spare, sol’ll sing you one more song.” (Tre-
mendous enthusiasm.)
Miss Manifold’s marriage with Mr. Fyfe-
Jamieson, postponed on account of the decease of
the bride’s mother, came off quietly one day this
week at Camperdown. If things had turned out
differently, the wedding of the last of the Mani-
fold girls was to have been an affair of surpassing
magnificence, with the Earl and Countess starred
on the invitation list. The Vice-regal couple,
during their recent tour, stayed with: one of the
clan, and on that occasion Lady Hopetoun pre-
sented Miss Manifold with a four-in-hand.
A tew days afterwards the distinguished donor
was tooling this turnout to the Camperdown races
when the horses took fright, plunged, kicked up
and broke the splashboard. Their driver was
quite cool, and soon reduced them to order. She
seems to have no fear of horses, though notori-
ously shy of mayoresses, as the Geelong people
know to their cost.
The first time her ladyship visited the seaside
town, she wore her arm in a sling as the result of
a painful encounter with a falling blind-roller.
Some of the citizens (or was it their wives?)
steeled their hearts against this explanation and
regarded the bandage as a diabolical ruse for
dodging the handshakes of leal and loyal Gee-
longeese. Years rolled on and Time’s effacing
finger had dealt kindly with this grievance when,
about four months ago, Gov. Hopetoun was
invited to open the Geelong Channel and to bring
with him his now forgiven spouse. The local
mayoress, at that time, was a lady of meek and
quiet spirit who didn’t relish the idea of being
paired off with the august Countess any more
than that imposing personage hankered after
the society of her official guide. However, both
ladies had to go through with the affair and
they passed a most trying day from 10a.m. to 6p.m.
in each other’s company, during which period
they hardly exchanged a remark, or ‘‘swopped ” a
smile. In the meantime, the Governor was posi-
tively overflowing with geniality, and at the end
of his long bout of gush he stood on the platform
of the Melbourne train and gazed regretfully upon
the beauties of Geelong, as if loath to leave.
Just then a horny-handed son of toil appeared,
and, pushing his way through the crowd, intro-
duced himself as a humble admirer of the Hieland
chieftain. The latter responded rapturously, and
a most affecting scene ensued, Lady Hopetoun,
even, being inveigled from the inner, fastnesses of
the carriage to pat the devoted interloper on the
back. At last, the train steamed off with its pre-
cious freight, the wily noble protesting to the last
how intensely charmed he was with his new
acquaintance.
They do say that a distinguished somebody even
injured her ankle occasionally rather than dance
in the same set with one of the local high-fliers.
Fortunately a “set” contains several people, there-
fore no one could be certain who was the culprit.
Besides, if those Geelong women were right in
their surmises about the “ bruised arm,” a limb-
complaint may be instituted on very slight
grounds.
Ercildoune, except when putting on a spurt to
welcome the few congenial spirits which haunt
this democratic country, is sadly shorn of its old-
time glories. Two or three maids trip indus-
triously abjut, as if the place was a suburban
villa, while the sons of the house are called up at
dawn by their merciless papa and kept hard at it
all day, clad in ordinary “ bushman’s costume.”
No doubt Salmon finds titled children-in-law
are expensive luxuries. Lady Sarah Wilson,
though, was very popular with the employes
on the place, who compare her unaffected
demeanour with the airs and graces of some of her
marriage connections, and unanimously vote her
“ the best of the bunch.” Ercildoune will soon be
left to the tender mercies of the two younger boys,
as the head of the house doesn’t contemplate
wasting the s weetness of himself and daughters on
Australian air much longer. So he is off to chase
the coveted, but coy, baronetcy in the neighbour-
hood of Piccadilly.
The engagement of Victoria’s chief heiress||is
announced at last. The wonder is that she hasn’t
been snapped up long ago, but naturally the
peerage idea wasn’t resigned without a struggle.
No one would have given the old uncle, who en-
couraged this ambition by a legacy (which, I
believe, the young lady gets in any case), credit for
so much enterprise. He himself, once in a
moment of excitement, plighted his troth to a
member of the check-apron sisterhood. Hearing
that the contemplation of his wealth had so
inflated the ideas of the bride-elect that she
refused to have a handkerchief in her trousseau
costing less than <£l sterling, he broke off the
match with a snap.
One of our richest squatting crowds is said to be
engaged at the present moment in the autumn
pastime of starving the local pastor out. In what
way the unhappy apostle has incurred their wrath
has not been divulged, but, so far, he stands firm
and talks largely about “Death and Imprison-
ment.” Somebody in authority, pitying the
weaker side, called a meeting in the hope of recon-
ciling the contending parties. But “ the family ”
ignored the peacemakers and declined all over-
tures, an easy position to take up when you
have inherited the earth and the other fellow is
merely a poor gospel-miller with 12 children, more
or less, to devour his thick bread and butter.
VAN M.


CASH BONUS
distribution
Of Profits to Po'icy-holders every Month as follows;
Ist CASH BONUS, £4OOO
2nd ~ n 2000
g
Under the Co.’s system of ballot it is possible for the
holder of a policy for £25 to receive six (6) separate cash
bonuses of the total value of £4092 10s., and for the
holder of a policy of £lOO to receive twenty-three (23)
seoarate cash bonuses of the total value of £7870.
N.B.]
A Policy for £25 can be obtained for
premium.
A Policy for £lOO can be obtained for
premium.
a 2/S
a ID/-
Press and Policy-holders present at all ballots.
Address Personally or by tetter—G. R. WEBB,
Xlie Accident Coupon
In.sxira,nce Co. of IST/ST.
12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR OOMINO WERE.
majesty's "The Lights o' London.”
"The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray.”
Hide and Seek.’
Filus’s Circus, Opposite Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’ B " A Woman’s Revenge.”
Theatre Royal mu rU rw°
aiexandra .«•«•••*•••• The Octoroon.
£lh^:::::::::: variety show.
“ Dandy Dick,” staged at Sydney Lyceum
on Saturday, is not a piece of the calibre of
“ Niobe; ” nevertheless, it is a wholesome and
pleasant comedy which appeals to the laughter-
loving sinner. The principal character m it is a
horse. This artist never appears personally on the
stage but his presence is felt from the middle of
the first act right to the end. The all-pervading-
ness of that horse, his magnetic affinity, the soul-
fulness of him, and his capacity for moulding
events is something remarkable. He enters un-
invited into a quiet clerical family, and inside of
24 hours he reduces it to gibbering insanity. By
his evil influence the Dean’s two daughters take
to betting and staying out late at night; the Dean
himself stakes the collection money on a race and
mixes up horse medicines secretly at the dead
of • night ; and the old family retainer
attempts a hideous crime with strychnine.
Then the cleric is arrested for “nobbling, ’ and
is further charged with attempted seduction of a
policeman’s wife—said lady being an ex-cook.
Further, his widowed sister harangues a crowd of
jockeys, spielers, welshers, bookmakers and horse-
copers on a racecourse, and shares in a free fight,
and finally the abandoned dignitary is brought
home insensible, disgraced, and fallen from his
high estate, with a nose-bag over his head, to find
that the collection money has been inadvertently
staked on the wrong animal. Inside of a day and
a night a whole household is devastated and laid
in ruins by one horse, yet the malign beast him-
self except that his tail is burned, remains abso-
lutely calm and uninjured amid the general
downfall. # #
Mrs. Brough, Titheradge and Boucicault
are the main supports of this horse-story. Tither-
adge, as an unotuous and short-winded Dean of
a large, helpless pattern, is reasonably good. It
is not very clear at any time whether he means his
ecclesiastic to be a deceptive snuffler or a good
man gone wrong by accident, but as the average
dean never quite knows which he is himself this
doesn’t signify. Probably Titheradge intends the
audience to take its choice. Mrs. Brough,
however, is sufficiently definite. She- is the
wildest, horsiest, doggiest lady on record, and
her occasional hardness of manner makes the
horsiness and the dogginess suit her to adrnira-
tife" As for Boucicault’s ancient retainer—-who
is old Jaikes gone hopelessly to the bad—he is the
best of the trio. A red-headed policeman played
by Mr. Brough—is also entirely commendable,
and is an interesting essay on the force in general;
and the rest of the eo. looks beautiful, and wears
its new frock w v ith excellent effect. Next week
the great play of the season, “ The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray,” will be produced, and local society
will totter on its foundations —or, at least, it ought
to.
* * » *
“ The Lights of London,” a piece which
happens to everybody sooner or later, recurred
at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Saturday night. It
got a large, warm reception—in fact, the house
was almost as enthusiastic as if it had never seen
the “Lights” before. The company is in good
working order, the scenery is gorgeous, and the
tank is as successful as ever in its own quiet way.
The tank and Mr. Rignold’s dive from the bridge
are the great features of the show, and the gallery
vociferates just as it used to do when the water
splashes up some fourteen or fifteen feet, or there-
abouts, as the monarch falls in. Then it tries to
bring Henry V. before the curtain in the hope
that when he bows the damp after-part of him
will leave a moist imprint on the drop-scene as a
guarantee of good faith. Miss Kate Bishop
makes a valuable addition to the co. and there is
a new policeman in place of the departed Sweeney.
The remainder of the cast does its duty well m
that station of life to which has called
it, and the villain will begin his nefarious career
at 7.45 precisely until further notice.
. Last week The Bulletin took occasion to
remark that it might be an appropriate ciroum-
stance if a cathedral fell upon “Cinders, at
Sydney Royal, and blotted it out. The remark
was made in haste, and has since been repented at
leisure, on the ground that it would be a sinful
waste of a good cathedral. “Hans the Boatman
has packed up the kiddies and the big dog and
gone to Adelaide, and the Criterion is temporarily
deserted. A few minor shows are bearing up
pretty well against the damp hand of calamity,
but the damp hand of calamity, as a rule, has the
best of it.
* * * *
George Larmour, proprietor of Ooogee
Aquarium, intends to fight the antiquated law
and the fossilised sentiment which prohibit Sunday
concerts. The Bulletin sincerely hopes that
men and women who believe in freedom of thought
and action will back him up, by patronising the
concerts as long as they are decently conducted
and give value for the money. The attempt to
make Sunday a day of gloom and horror is opposed
both to sound morality and common-sense.
* * * *
Fillis’s Circus has now got the additional
support of Benham’s learned pig, an animal of
varied knowledge and deep philosophical research.
“Deadwood Dick,” a wild, hair-raising tragedy
w-ith much shooting in it, and much tearing around
of half-breeds, cowboys, and hairy desperadoes,
and with many corpses left to be eaten by vultures
on the plain, is the other principal addition to the
programme. Nobody knows exactly what all the
shooting is about, but it is a pleasant and horrify-
ing episode, and is good value for the money.
# * * *
The comedy at Sydney Bijou is now finish-
ing its third and last week, and is still going
tolerably strong. The “Strategist” is a comedy
which ought to be good for several more weeks,
especially with so excellent a company, but “ the
depression” is against it, as it is against every-
thing else. Miss Gladys Leigh is brightening up
its last days with some new songs, and The Bul-
letin is pieased to mention that she has a pleasant
voice and is a lady with whom anyone would be
§ lad to elope at the shortest notice. “Hide and
eek’’ and “ Mixed ” are in preparation.
* * * *
Out of compliment to Courtneidge the
played “La Mascotte,” at Melbourne Princess’s,
last Friday night, and in the baldhead of Farmer
Rocco.that incisive comedian raised his farewell
laugh. During the show Courtneidge was so
noisily called for that he had to slip Ryley s coat
over his.demi-toilet and burst upon the scene with
a promise to make a speech in due course. Which
oration, being neat and simple, helped to atone
for the few words that have come from several
previous professional funny men on similar
occasions.
#* * *
On Saturday a revival of “La Cigale”
satisfied a still shuddering world that Miss Violet
Varley was neither dead nor sleeping. Earlier in
the week, as everybody knows, the newspapers
had sung of her rescue from the jaws of decease.
It is only a simple country ditty, to the air of
“ One day Marg6t ” :
One day Y.V.,
Wife soon to be,
Tumbled right into a lift-well.
Oh-o-o, the cruel lift-well, cru-el lift-well.
Poor promised bride
There might have died.
Crushed out of knowledge when the lift fell,
“ Oh, dear me!” cried Miss Y.Y.,
“’Tis coming, see! ’tis coming, see-ee !”
Bub her peril quite unique was averted by a
shriek
The cage was stopp’t in time, whilst she scrambled
fro-o-om the lift- well.
So, you see, pretty V
didn’t dee—
She did not dee.
Oh-o-o-o, Oh, pretty maiden ;
No-no-no-no, No, pretty maiden,
You were not jammed after all, although you
might have been.
So-so-so-so, So, pretty maiden,
All the air with joy is laden ;
You are wed, instead of dead —God save the
Queen !
It was understood that Miss Varley will assume
the character of Mr. Tapley’s rib pn Wednesday
of this current week, wherefore criticism of their
respective performances in “La Cigale ” is
graciously withheld. To stand in the shadow of
death upon the awful brink of matrimony is a
trying experience for anybody, and although
Tapley didn’t personally tumble under the lift, his
voice took a half-share of the nervous shock, all
the same. .“Princess Ida,” with a recuperated
Nellie Stewart in the name part, is to follow three
nights of the other opera and bring the present
season to a finish.
** * *
On Saturday the Bland Holt Dramatic
Company will appear at the Princess’ in “ A
Woman’s Revenge,” a play that has been tested
and declared A 1 in the “provinces.” A strong
company includes Miss Watson, Sass and Edith
Blande, and the accessories are said.to be Bland
Holtian in the extreme.
** * *
The Bijou re-opens for one last farewell
week of “ Charley’s Aunt,” on April 21st. Arthur
Garner, at the head of a syndicate, will take pos-
session of the house in May, and start with a
comedy on the 7th of that merrie month. All the
poetry of May being antipodean, it is proper to
assume that our trees will begin to bud when
Garner raises the curtain.
** m *
Lizzie Stofel gathers in the ducats as
before at Melbourne Royal. Judging from
present appearances “Struck Oil” might run
right along into the dim future, and hoary parents
as yet unborn might expect to hear that crash of
crockery in “ The Chinese Question. But it is
possible that Maggie Moore will want to change
the bill before then.
* * *
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” pursues its dusky,
dislocated way at the Alexandra, and the
sympathetic stout female, who pays a shil-
ling to drop a tear for little Eva, is
taking her grief steadily. Little Eva is a
festive, buxom little damsel, with legs that seem
to have destined her for_ the ballet. Her
passing away is, therefore, inexplicable, but if
Uncle Tom were to throw in a casual announce-
ment that the angel-child had been mortally
wounded by a tram, she could die just as nicely,
and nobody need wonder at her apotheosis.
Under present conditions no doctor would write
a certificate until he had held a post-mortem ex-
amination of the infant’s elegantly-rounded corse,
and then he would have to give a Latin guess at
the cause of death. Very likely she succumbs to
the part-singing of her papa’s niggers. “Uncle
Tom ” is likely to last a few nights longer, another
coloured drama, Boucioault’s “ Octoroon, being
next on the Alexandra list.
At Poverty Point.
John Stool's blood-stained head-bandage runs “Tosca”
close for realism. Johnny Forde has been fche cause of
sending more than one susceptible female, at Melb.
Theatre Royal, into a “dead faint” at the sanguinary
sight.
The apotheosis of Uncle Tom, at Melbourne Alexandra-
is decidedly original. A duplicate of the original nigger,
clad in red shirt and dingy pants, is borne upward by the
angels who previously called for little Eva. It occurred
to the management that a black spirit wouldn’t match
well with a white gown and wings, so Uncle has to go
disguised as a mortal.
Jennie Lee has made more than £30,000 out of “Jo”—
in her time. Not so long ago she could command £lOO a
week salary for an English provincial tour with the old
piece and another generation has “come on ” since then.
Some’ enterprising British manager might do worse than
give Jennie a fresh turn around.
A certain actress thinks “no woman has lived until she
has had a baby.” It all depends.
Westralians are parting with their shekels plentifully to
Manning and his opera co. Gcv. Robinson several times
entertained the mummers at Govt. House.
The encore verse of “ We are two Mariners Bold, in
“ Paul Jones,” at Melb. Princess’s, suggested by Dr.
Roechel’s anti-tight-lacing tirade, is so suggestive as to
make most of the ladies in the dress-circle positively
squirm in their seats.
There is to be a law-action over Vi. Yarley’s accident.
«< Mr. Anson’s Ecoles is an excrescence.”— Truth. But
the piece draws.
“She lay a corpse.” Last words of Madame Patey’s
last song. . .
The Y.M.C.A. Melb. premises are reconnoitred for a
music-hall.
Nellie Stewart is once more ensconced in the bronzy
little dressing-room, made as her nest, at Melb. Princess’.
What a succession of queens it has witnessed : Bernhardt,
Potter Grade Warner, Irene Vanbrugh, Mrs. Brough,
Leonora Braham, Marie Halton, Henrietta Watson, and
even little Vi. Varley has got inside it.
Clever Nellie Oanthony, triumphantly touring South
Africa thinks of visiting Australia, and has asked her
brother, Robert Ganthony, the well-known entertainer, to
join forces with her.
Amv Sherwin is still chirping away with much vigour.
Her husband, Hugo Gbrlitz, has been engaged to manage
for Eleonora Duse during her next London engagement.
The charming Italian actress is now in much better
health.
Courtneidge is a sturdy democrat and a student of
advanced literature. Lonnen and the “loyal” section of
the last Gaiety crowd'having celebrated the 9th Nov. in
Melbourne, by sending a birthday cablegram to Albert
Edward, were shocked to find that somehow brother
Courtneidge took no share in the glorious deed
Ha even refused to feel grateful for the benefits which
that stout gentleman, according to Lovell I rumps, had
conferred upon the leg-drama.
Courtneidge and wife (Miss Rosie Nott) are taking borne
with them a one-year-old Australian daughter, their first-
bo-n. The little one was christened Cicely Esmeralda,
after Cicely Nott, the maternal grandmother, and Latue
Miss Esmeralda,” the Gaiety burlesque.
Poor old J. E. Kitts, of the original Lyater Opera Co.,
found dead in his bed last week, when asked by a manager
from whom he sought employment at what.academy o
music he had studied, calmly replied—“ At the Conser a-
tnire di Geelongo.” The manager was perfectly satistteo.
He knew the place well, and had often been there when
he was in Italy.
The three years' engagement of M. Wiegand as Sydney
city organist expires next month. Other local organists
are agitating against a renewal, asserting that no man
should have a monopoly of the big organ. What most or
them individually mean is that no other man should have
a monopoly of it. A lot of them applied for the position
and some, such as Mr. Sykes, while holding that unofficial
organists should have an opportunity of playing public y,
have the decency to speak of M. Wiegand as a talented
brother-artist. Others a tack him in all sorts of cowardly
and underhand ways. The Bulletin is rather surprised
to find that M. Wiegand dares to go out o nights.
People “ in the know,” or who should know, do say that
that romantic theatrical marriage has already taken
place.
Cable- “Miss Holbrook, who played at Melbourne
Gaiety, has been engaged for a prominent part in a new
London burlesque.” Brown’s cat's kittened. Was it for
this the electric cable was laid ?
Rose Musgrove, second daughter of manager George,
has a burning desire to go on the stage, for which pro-
fession she shows some qualifications. She has already
petitioned her father in the matter, but, so far, he has
vouchsafed no encouragement to his pretty daughter.
“"Miss Duvalli, who benefited at Melb. Theatre Royal last
year and went to Europe for vocal study, has returned
weighted with disappointment. Her voice, which once
promised so well, proved unequal to further study, and
she is now obliged to resume, for the present, the family
profession, dancing.
When Fillis’s circus was at Auckland (M.L.) a local ad-
vertising doctor scored a big puff by entering the
cage and there reciting the “Charge of the Light
Brigade.” At least it would have been a big putt
if the medicine-man hadn’t looked so haggard and
his knees hadn’t had a tendency to bang together. But
he escaped the fate he deserved. Any one who recites the
“Charge of the Light Brigade” ought to be eaten by
lions.
Miss Lucia Harwood, si ill remembered in Australia,
recently gave a supper to 800 of the poorest and hungriest
denizens of eastern London. This noble advfc. will be
counted as a big item in her favour at the Judgment, and
meanwhile it pays a lot better here below than having
her diamonds stolen.
Herr Bandmann, whose unspeakably bad acting has
kept his memory green in this country, has lately received
bad news at his cow-ranch out by Sacramento. His
Montana divorce was annulled, consequently Millicent
Palmer had the doubtful pleasure of being his wife once
more, and the second Mrs. Bandmann was ejected. Then
the first wife obtained a divorce on her own account, and
struck the Herr heavily for law-expenses and alimony,
and the status of the dethroned second wife remains un-
settled.
A son of Alfred Plumpton, the conductor, is acting with
some success at Melb. Alexandra.
The gushful Olga Nethersole to a recent interviewer
“I hope I shall not live to grow old. Ido so long to play
great parts ! Sometimes I feel that I oould play them as
they should be played through the force of their inspira-
tion. I should like to live long enough to fulfil my
ambition—to play the part I yearn for most, to play it, if
only once, as I yearn to play it —and then I could die as
the curtain fell.” The part of a nice, fresh, good-looking
corpse ought to fit Olga like a glove.
Miss Alice Holbrook, of Melbourne, has got it announced
by a cable that she is engaged to take part in a new
Gaiety burlesque. If the part is no bigger than those she
played in Australia there wasn’t any urgent necessity for
a cablegram. The Bulletin remembers Miss Holbrook as
a young lady who was very anxious to get a notice in this
journal. She did get one at last. It was but brief, yet it
must have satisfied Alice, for she never worried to get
another. The charming Alice, though said to be of Melb.,
was a 'Murkan accented damsel, if we remember aright.
A country Press Agency once mentioned her in its little
Melb. letter, from which time forth she haunted the office
of that Agency, enquiring for one or other of the thirty-
five organs in which her paragraph had appeared. _ It was
always the same old paragraph, but Alice liked to indulge
the hollow fancy that 35 different Melb. corres-
pondents had given her a notice. She would speak of the
“ criticism ” in the Budgywugy Chronicle as though it
were quite a different thing from the Qurragarry Banner’s
bit of butter, and quite seriously she used to ask the clerk
at the Agency to show her more copies of papers that had
been “saying something nice” about her.
At present Sims Reeves, who threatens an Australian
tour, is teaching singing at the Royal College of Music
for a fee equal to 30s. an hour.
The ballet-master at London Alhambra says that Con-
tinental danseuses extinguish the English girls because
the latter are too lazy to practise. Those eight brides-
maids that George Musgrove brought out here for “ Tur-
quoisette ” had not learned todance much the first instance,
let alone practising afterwards. They were quite Hing-
lish, and the word “ rehearsal ” sickened ’em.
Sarah Bernhardt meets all the household expenses of
her son Maurice, whose wife (a princess with an unpro-
nounceable name) brought him a fortune of £l6OO a year.
This income is, by Sarah’s orders, accumulating for the
future benefit of the happy pair, whilst she pays all their
bills, so that some of her money may not be wasted. She
can’t save money personally, whereas they can save
through her by the present arrangement. The £l6OO a
year Sarah says, must accumulate and multiply until
after her death ; till Men she will defray all their expenses.
Wonderful Sarah ! She sees no time coming when her
charm will fade, or her health fail. She is to go on acting
at £lOO a night, or so, until she drops suddenly into the
grave. It is quite possible, though, that Maurice wonders
what he will do in the event of mama demanding her
usual £lOO to scatter around when she hasn’t a shilling to
bless herself with. He’ll have to tell the raging genius
that his bank is in course of reconstruction.
It is not true that May Yohe has captured in holy matri-
mony the heir-presumptive of the dukedom of Newcastle.
It is still a case of “Hope deferred,” at all events until
the youth gets a bit of money.
Walter Bentley’s provincial reciting tour in S.A. was
hardly a success. ~
The shade of Shakespeare, remarks The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, must have had a bad time during
the performance of “As You Like It ” by a co. of ladies,
unassisted by even one of the played-out sex. As an
exhibition of effrontery it has never been equalled, and
as a stage performance it was simply grotesque. Some of
the ladies had fine legs, and obviously took pride in
showing them. King Ja-Ja might have gone farther and
not found so good a lot of recruits for his regiment of
Amazons, and this is all that can be said for them. One
fact is worth recording—the wrestling scene was much less
absurd than when it was played by Larry Foley, in
Sydney.
Good-natured Yankee remarks about Adelina Patti
» Selfish, unprogressive, avaricious, she has never thought
of her art as aught but a money-making enterprise; and
now, sans voice, sans look, sans everything, she is once
more before the American public, cap in hand, begging a
few more dollars, for which she gives naught in return
but a few old-fashioned arias that she has been singing
nearly forty years.”
How many people know or care who is the author of
“Struck Oil?’ r Australian theatrical managers have a
knack of suppressing the playwright’s name.
Although Chevalier was part lessee and manager of the
London Trocadero for a time he couldn’t sing at his own
’all. He is under exclusive engagement to another firm.
An Australian theatrical manager was offered, the
other day, a sensational melodrama to which he took only
one objection. The language was too good for his
audiences. There were no blank verse soliloquies or long
sketches of poetical dialogue, and the characters were up
to date, but their grammar frightened the manager. It
is hard to make a theatrical person understand that the
patrons of fustian can always appreciate good material,
as evidenced by the survival of Shakespeare at low-priced
London houses. Leaving the Bard out of the question,
what audience is too uneducated for “ The Silver King ’
or “ Corsican Brothers”—well-worded plays both of them ?
Miss Belvawney, burlesquisb, visited the Hobbs’s.
Asked little TotCe Hobbs: “Ma, will she undress for
dinner?”
The Wild-Cat Column.
The N.S.W. Government has dropped the tSank
of North Queensland out of the Bank Notes Hill—that
famous measure which makes notes legal tender in all
parts of the province save the metropolis—the reason
being that its Sydney office is the only one which it
possesses in N.S. VV., and consequently it has no need for
a note circulation. The same process of reasoning
applies, in a less degree, to the National Bank and the
B.N.Z., which have each one solitary branch in the
country districts. Also, it applies in its entirety to the
Q.N. Bank, which also has no office at all outside Sydney ;
yet it is included in the I ill, and its notes arc made legal
tender all over the province, and the public must accept
them at its own risk. The only visible difference between
the two hanks is that the one which is left in is the bank
with Government influence, and the one « hiolt is left out
stands on its own bottom. Also, the Q.N., whose, notes
are made legal tender, is in much the worse odour of the
two, and its 70s. shares are vainly offered at half a-crown
without finding a buyer !
Premier Bibbs, with his usual illogical roar,
declared that he “didn’t intend to allow ihe B.N.Q. to
establish branches all over the province and issue paper,’
but yet he allows the Q.N.B. to do that same thing undr r
exactly similar circumstances—or rather, under worse
circumstances, for while the Government £oes out of its
way to cancel the B.N.Q.’s existing note-issue it deliber-
ately invites the other bank, which has at present no note-
issue at all in N.S.W., to start one forthwith and shovel
out paper. Further, it is a curious tact that the B.N.Q.
was omitted in the first place, was then included in the
Bill by the special intervention of the Government, and is
now thrown out also by special intervention of the
Government. The whole business smells badly of Brisbane
Fat Man influence, and should be inquired into on that
account.
♦ * * *
Mr. R, H. D. White’s new banking bill provides
that no single individual or partnership shall be allowed
to call itself a bank in N.S.W., and that the term shall
apply only to corporations with not less than £100,000 of
paid-up capital. As has here been said, an institution
with £100,000 paid-up isn’t necessarily any more sound
than one with £1000, hut the great merit of the measure
is that it abolishes that kind of “bank” in which one
man holds 99 per cent, of the shares, nothing paid-up,
and the other nominal members of the corporation consist
of his junior clerks and office boys. Under the new system
this individual may hold 99 per cent, of the shares if he
likes, but as this will involve the finding of £99,000 in
cash, the Thomas Smith Richardson variety of banker is
practically put out of court.
* * * *
Allan & Go., the Melbourne music “warehouse-
men,” pronounced their insolvency last week. Principal
cause—the failure of H. W. Farrar & Co. and subsequent
pressure by the Commercial Bank. The story of Fayrars
business transactions is likely to prove a Bankruptcy
Court romance.
* * * *
The number of big insolvents who set forth in
their schedules that they “ are being pressed by the
Commercial Bank of Australia which is a creditor for a
large amount” is a dismal fact for the reconstituted
shareholder.
• ♦ » *
The true inwardness of reconstruction is shown
by the case of the Coonamhle Hospital, which has a very
much fixed deposit of £200 with the A.J.S. Bank. The
committee wanted to operate on this. Bank replied,
stating that, as a favour, they would be allowed to draw
£100, for which 8 per cent, interest would be charged.
As the Bank only gives 4J per cent., it actually makes 3-}
per cent, by letting the committee use its own cash!
Which, of course, is typical of thousands of cas s. Last
year’s panic legislation is nothing but a scheme, and a
successful scheme, to bleed the country for the benefit
of bank shareholders.
• * » »
In Melbourne lasb week, in the case of
M'Laughlin v. Bank of Victoria, an expensive Judge and
sundry high-priced barristers decided that, when a man
holds bank-shares as executor of a deceased person’s
estate, and is registered as such, the bank can’t collar the
shares as security for the executor’s private over<Wt.
You wouldn’t think such a case needed arguing.
* * » •
It was Nathaniel Cork, London manager of the
Commercial Bank of Sydney, who so cruelly gave aw; y
young Peel in the matter of the now famous “State
document,” says Tub Bulletin’s London correspondent.
The paper was shown (it is averred “quietly ”) to Mr.
Cork, who sent copies of it to Mr. T. A. Dibbs. The
Treasury people still maintain that it was in no way a
public document, and they profess to be most indignant
at its having been made public. But it is strange that
the Australian newspaper people did get hold of and use
it, and that the document bears the imprimatur of the
official publishers. A scapegoat must be found, for the
Peel influence is strong enough protect the trans-
gressor. . , ,
M'Kinnon’s demand (in N.S.W. Parliament)
lor a State audit of all banks coming under the Bank
Issue Act roused up Young, the dreary person from the
Hastings and Manning electorate, who remarked that
“the Government might as well appoint auditors to
examine all the accounts of every individual in the com-
munity.” Which would be very logical if the Govern-
ment proposed to make the I O U of every individual m
the community a legal tender, which the public must take
entirely at its own risk. As it doesn’t propose this, the
comparison is pure idiocy.
* * * *
By order of the English law courts, the direc-
tors of the reconstructed N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co are being publicly examined as to the doings of that
institution, and the results are somewhat remarkable.
The proceedings have not got very far as yet, but so far
as they have got they ate interesting. According to the
cable summary, the co. obtained a legal opinion so far
back as ’79 that the debenture-holders had no special
security over the assets, but the statement that they had
such security was left standing in the prospectus. - ’ The
balance-sheet of ’91 represented interest as being paid
which was really outstanding, and a statement re the
co.’s losses was altogether suppressed, the shareholders
being left to believe that no such losses had been made.
The reason of the suppression was that the document was
“ too strong.”
The ’92 balance-sheet is also said to have sup-
pressed a number Of things. Among the bad investments
of the co. was a loan of £40,000 to a director on the
security of certain land, which one witness described as
“a swamp.” This is as far as the evidence has got yet,
and it is a bad beginning. Yet the N.Z.L. and M.
is apparently one of the most honest of the
reconstructed institutions of Australasia. The differ-
ence is that the others got through without any
public examination of anybody. The shareholders
simply accepted the unsupported statements of the direc-
tors, notwithstanding the tact that the suspension proved
their last balance-sheet, in most cases, to be mere bun-
kum, and there was no evidence that their present
statements were not bunkum also. If a public inquiry
had been made similar to that now going on in the case
of the N.Z.L. and M. Co., half the busted banks would
never have started again.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 16.)


TKe Oldßlervd
WlusKy
Horse
Cellar
WHI'
DIRECT MOM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE, MELLOW
MATURED SCOTCH MALT
Edinburgh
ncsaaßnoc
THE TWO
GENUINE ARTICLES :
CLEMENTS TONIC,
T „ Tm FLETCHER’S PILLS.
IMITATED !
BUT UNRIVALLED
AND UNEQUALLED.
CLEMENTS TONIC is a scientific chemical
food and restores the tissue wasted by the voca-
tions of every-day life, is a prompt and safe
remedy , for neuralgia, nervousness, weakness,
debility, liver complaint, dropsy, and chronic
indigestion.
1 LETCHER’S PILLS cure heartburn, back-
ache, headache, liver torpidity, dyspepsia and all
complaints of the stomach and bowels.
. These two remedies have been thoroughly tested
in all the hot countries of the world. They are
sold at a price within the reach of all people.
Evidence is forwarded free on receipt of name and
address that will satisfy the most sceptical as to
their virtues. They are sold everywhere, but care
must be taken that the genuine are obtained or
the money and time are wasted and the disease
so much the more serious.
Probably one of the prettiest water-side
townships in N.S.W. is the Toronto Estate, on
the shores of the beautiful Lake Macquarie.
.Toronto is a new summer resort among some of
the loveliest scenery in this continent, and is so
rapidly growing in favour that it promises ere
long to be the Brighton of N.S. Wales. A grand
parade has been laid out by the sea-shore ; there
are piers, hotels, splendid fishing and boating,
railway and steamboat communication, and a
poem by The Bulletin’s old friend, Nelson P.
Whitelocke, in the advertisement. The Excelsior
Land Co., 171 York-street, Sydney, is selling
allotments at Toronto at a reasonable figure.
till
IV
m
m» f, u
(HUImtiVC* / I»y
illi
\M .<>
fJ'JIIII'
lllMUM'l
in y
/k
iihii mm
iVj
7
t*
fill'
n
SIM! 1
ill"'*
illli
iWIO
ILLlm
iliiiJ
f.;.ituuu
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stont.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston Si Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
WATSON’S
DUNDEE ==^
■■ ~ WHISKY
—IS THK—
BEST IN THE MARKET.
Personal Items.
“ Hi don’t like ladies with skinny harms,”
»—’Enry Parkes.
Purves, Q.C., got bitten over owning
racers. His Waxy ran up for a Melb. Cup.
Hinc several things.
“Jimmy” Thompson, late Melb. Standard
manager, has gone West to write special articles
on the gold-craze for the Age.
Id rather swear than be vulgar.”—
sy* M Millan, M.P. (N.S.W.) Yes, swearing is
-cmglish. Being vulgar is beastly colonial.
It is said that Sprigg, the tramway
autocrat, introduced sparrows into Victoria,
.they call sparrows “ spriggs ” in Melbourne,
Is it true that Baron Hirsch, of London
and elsewhere, is identical with Hirsch the
lookey s i lat (M.L.) storekeeper who used to sell
bacon and pick-handles, 25 years ago ?
“When Dibbs was knighted by Queen
Victoria, she borrowed for the purpose the sword
of General Byng.” The Bulletin doesn’t believe
it. His name must have been Bung.
Rev, Dr. Roseby said, a Sunday ago, that
it was a shame and scandal to see young, strong
men in Australia not ashamed to beg. And then
the plate was passed round the congregation.
One of the candidates for S.A. Agent-
Generalship, through Bray’s affliction, is an
individual who was once seen to swallow eight
meat-pies at one sitting in an Adelaide restaurant.
Mrs. Yates, Mayor of Onehunga (M.L.),
sat alone on the magistrates’ bencli one day last
week, and cautioned a “ drunk ” brought before
her.
bi.S.W. Supreme Court Judge Stephen
writes to controvert the opinions on his judgment
of an anonymous Herald writer. A sign of the
times !
The engagement of a famous Australian
contralto to a young Melbourne solicitor, well-
known in amateur musical circles, is rumoured in
the Southern capital,
“ I wonder what next? ” was Lord Ripon’s
exclamation when he heard of Gov. Duff’s little
affair with the Scotchmen. “ This wouldn’t have
happened with Wallington,” was Carington’s
remark.
Three weeks ago L. L. Smith delivered a
lecture in Melbourne upon Brown-Sequard. It
doesn t follow that the famous French physician
died of Smith s lecture, but the case certainly
looks suspicious.
Chief Justice Darley says Judges are still
members of the Bar. That is why the juniors
growl so savagely, when a =£2500 or <£,3500 a year
Judge begs litigants to settle their squabbles out
of Court. It looks like dog eating dog.
All the trouble and expense that Crick,
M.P., has incurred through his litigation with
John Norton, had its beginning in the highly
moral action West Macquarie took in the matter
of the domestic troubles of Geo. Black, M.P.
The autocratic treatment by the Chirnsides
of their Werribee parson, who has his home and
tabernacle on their bloated property, recalls to
mind the instance of the Duke of Hamilton for-
bidding a certain church to be built on the Isle of
Arran.
The reports as to the
projected marriage of Lord
Rosebery to one of the Wales
girls are simply absurd, re-
marks a Bulletin correspon-
dent. Rosebery is a widower,
and already provided with
an heir to his title. The
Royal family would hardly
stand a Guelph’s children
1 Lying second fiddle to the
half-bred Hebrew offspring
of a Scotch peer. It ap-
pears to be true that Princess
Maud is fond of the cherubic
Lord, but in affairs matri-
monial the feelings of a
Royal lady are seldom taken
into consideration.
Ernest Mitchell, the
youngest of the Melba
family, shows decided talent
for music, and is at present
engaged in the study of
theory with a view to his
future appearance as a bari-
tone. A canard was widely
circulated that the diva’s
young sister was likely to
excel her, but, as a matter
of fact, nervousness prevents
her being even a fair ama-
teur singer. Ernest Mitchell,
like his elder brothers, has
kicked against being forced
into the contracting business,
and at last papa David has
consented to his embarking
on a musical career. The
lad’s promise gives a quali-
fied denial to the general
impression that Melba has a
monopoly of all the family
talent.
Thomas Henry Hill, one of the famous
Six Hundred, has died at Enfield, S.A. He
arrived in S.A. in 1866 and entered the police
within a week of landing. Subsequently, of
course, he kept a public-house—in Adelaide. He
was a man of good character, and died at the age
of 63.
Louis Stevenson gets all his swear-words
into Sydney Daily Telegraph without any diffi-
culty. Once that paper published serially a novel
by Harold Stephen, Australian journalist, and
every time he wrote “ damn ” the editor commu-
nicated with him, saying “ we cannot allow you
to be coarse.”
Laurens, the just-departed Vic. M.L.A.,
was a Jerseyite, but generally passed for a Swiss,
which increased the wonder over his prodigious
industry. He was the most ingenious pronouncer
of English ever heard in Parliament, but had a
lot of now*. The big Speight v. Syme action arose
out of his borrowings.
Mr. Edward Stavenhagen, long associated
in business with Mr. R. Kummerer, and well-
known to Australian wool-men, died in London
28th Feb. after an operation for throat-cancer.
This news will be read with regret by many
“ Old Stavey ” was one of the best
fellows m all the world.
Tweeddale, a Picturesque Atlas Co. official,
became much annoyed when anyone misspelled
ms patronymic. He was onoe explaining to
Evening News Dekker that he had two “ds ”in
bis name. Said Dekker
" I Strange there should such difference be
Twixfe Tweed-dale-dee-dum and Tweed-ale-dee-dee I”
The Wellington interviewer having hoard
of Grey’s arrival there, and intended de-
parture m the Gothie, called upon him and ques-
tioned him as to his reasons for now going on so
a i om ; ne y 5 to which Hori replied that the
Chief Rewi had lately asked him to share the
same tomb with him, and that consequently he
was ‘ travelling in quest of health.”
THOMAS WILLIAMS.
(Sentenced to death at Sydney for injuring aconslable in the Bridge-street burglary.)
CHARLES MONTGOMERY,
a constable in the Bridge-street burglary.)
One of the “books of the day” is “A
Yellow Aster,” by Mrs. Mannington Caffyn', a
name well known to Bulletin readers. The
novel is already in its fourth edition, and pro-
mises to be as popular as “Dodo,” or “The
Heavenly Twins.” There is nothing Australian
about it. Dr. Caffyn, by the way, is getting
together a decent practice in London.
“ The Earl of Coventry,” says the Argus’
own special Duchess, “is very proud of his son
Henry, who has done something to restore credit
to the family name.” Henry has been helping to
mow down the Matabele. The old nobility is
easily glorified. The Coventry family will pout
its chest over the fat nigger whom Henry prodded
with a bayonet for the next hundred years.
Madame Belle Cole, now on her way to
sing in Australia, is even fatter, than Antoinette
Sterling. She lives in one of those queer, quiet,
little London squares opening out of a busy
thoroughfare, and, seen in her tiny drawing-room,
there seems absolutely nothing in the place but
Belle Cole and piano, chiefly the former. Erst-
while the popular contralto greatly favoured a
song commencing “ Oh, Fatima 1 ”
POLITICAL ECONOMY-POPULAR BRAND.
INDIGNANT UNEMPLOTED: “Jest look at that there unearned
increment on 'im ! stickin’ out a mile!”
The late James Swan, Q. M.L.0., and
once owner of Brisbane Courier, was an illegiti-
mate son of Private Jas. Swan, killed in the
Peninsular war. His mother was a deaf mute
named Janet M’Laren, who was murdered in his
presence by another woman named Mary Muck-
straffie, jealousy causing the quarrel. Swan was
then a boy of 13. He subsequently came to Aus-
tralia at the instance of Dr. Lang, and made a
fortune of £50,000, half of which went to his
young wife when he died intestate at 81. £25,000
is now going a-begging in Glasgow for those who
can prove relationship to Swan’s father or mother.
Here is a romance in real life which rivals most
creations of fiction.
Tom Playford, going to London as S.A.
Agent-General, will be like a chawbacon in a
lady’s boudoir. Playford and the Vic. Speaker
Bent are brothers in Christian names and brothers
in profession. Both graduated as honest dung-
tossers and market-gardeners. Playford is as
uncouth as Bent in social forbearances, but twice
as manly and not nearly so vulgar as the -First
Commoner of the Cabbage Garden.
David Symo, of the Age, receives £l2OO
“ as a genuine token of the feeling of the colony ”
upon his libel-case. In a day or two, Speight will
be presented with exactly the same amount, or a
trifle more, as a similar token of equal genuine-
ness. Only, the presentation to Speight will not
bo a subject for three solid columns of report and
rubbish in Syme’s newspaper. There is no fear of
the Age rushing into contempt of court on behalf
of Speight.
At a picnic given at Melbourne in honour
of Sara Bernhardt, a well-known owner of broad
acres and big flocks asked to be introduced to the
mighty woman of tragedy and “side.” “ What is
he?” loftily enquired the haughty goddess (who
was herself a milliner’s apprentice in the mi«ty
years aback). “A squatter,” was the reply of
the young- sculptor addressed. “ Ugh ! ” she
indignantly pouted, “ a wholesale butcher ! I do
not want to know him,” and moved away.
Miss Nettie Atkinson, a young niece of
Mrs. P. 11. Osborne, of Currandooley," N.S. W is
a viohmste of great promise, says The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. She is shortly to make
her appearance at a concert to be given at Miss
An ue Osborne’s, Albert Hall Mansions, to intro-
to London. She is a granddaughter of
Old General Atkinson, better known as “Nosey,”
who used to buy remounts for the Indian Govern-
ment, and had his head-quarters in Sydney.
G-. Republican Dibbs was thus ennobbled
by Victoria’s own arm :
I went down on one knee, and she asked General Byno-
for his sword. He offen d her the uniform dress-sword 7
but she requested him to present his own sword instead!
She then took the sword, and, touching my head and
shoulder, said, “ In the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost, arise, Sir George Dibbs.”
And then George arose and went forth, and said—
“ Damn Chicago!” There is nothing blasphem-
ous in royalty—except royalty.
Madame Belloc, the writer of the article
on George Eliot in the current Contemporary, is
a first cousin of Henry Parkes, of N.S.W. Her
name is Bessie Parkes Belloc. , The “ Essays on
Women’s Work,” which she wrote as far back as
’64, was one of the earliest books published “at
’Ome ” on the woman question. She is an interest-
ing old lady with white hair, who knew intimately
the Brownings, G. H. Lewis, George Eliot, and
nearly all the well-known literary people of a
generation ago.
Lord Augustus Loftus has finished the
second portion of his “Recollections.” As a
Privy Councillor Lord Augustus is bound by oath
not to reveal State secrets, so he has submitted
proofs to Lord Salisbury and Lord Rosebery, past
and present Foreign Secretaries', who have both
highly approved of what he has written. As soon
aS -vi^j * JO °^ : * s i ssue< 3 by Cassel’s, Lord Augustus
will depart for the continent, there to end his
days. By-the-way, “Monty” Loftus is now
British Consul in Madrid, and is attached to the
embassy there.
I lie first intimation Adelaide folk got of
the death of “old Jock” Robertson was a wire
from a Sydney florist to the Ministry asking
whether he should, on its behalf, furnish a wreath
for the coffin. Similarly, the earliest news of
Johnny ’ Bray’s illness which reached Premier
Kingston, then in Westralia, was a wire from
u- r6 ?r>i P ] a y ford so b°dmg influence in support of
his (i layford’s) appointment to the Agent-General-
ship. Works Minister Holder favours Playford’s
selection because he wants the Treasurership.
Gillen and Gordon, however, are understood to
prefer the nomination of the Hori-Grey-like Dr.
Cockburn who would certainly convey an im-
measurably superior impression in London.
The news of S.A. Agent-General Bray’s
mental illness hardly surprised those who have
watched the dropsical fattening of the little man
ever since his ennobblement. Bray had an active
little mind in an active little body, but he also
had a very little soul. Quirky as a solicitor, he
was insignificant as a politician. He ran with the
hare and hunted with the hounds. He pretended
advanced democracy, but his heart was always in
in nded fleshpots left him by heredity. He
talked republicanism, but snapped greedily at a
title at the second offer, excusing himself on the
miserable quibble that, as Speaker, he would have
insulted that office by declining it ! He aped to
be a chieftain in the Natives’ Association, but ran
away to live in England at the first chance.
Brown-S&juard, the Franco-American
physiologist just deceased, was known chiefly to
the world as the inventor of an Elixir of Life
widely advertised a few years ago. His elixir
which was to make the bald-head once more
eligible for the dress-circle, consisted of a prepara-
tion from the organs of the guinea-pig. This, the
basis of his popular fame, sounded like quackery ;
nevertheless, Brown-Sequard was a truly brilliant
man of science, and the associate of such famous
men as Charcot and Vulpian. He was a Creole, bear-
ing in bis beady dark eyes strong evidences of the
tar-brush,” and was a nice, shiny, comfortable,
white-bearded old gentleman who looked like Papa
forpy,. of N.S.W. Assembly, and shook hands
according to the fish-like manner of “ the greatest
of Australian statesmen.”
A Bulletin correspondent:—
Please don’t sneer, even in a roundabout way, at
1 a ikes poverty. The old man would not be so
poor had he not insisted upon paying all his creditors,
who are too poor to bear Ihe loss, 20s. in the £ despite
having obtained releases from them. Since his assign-
-88 he has paid £llOO of debts from which his
r e ™. 9* assignment legally released him. Such conduct
in Uibbs is always thought worthy of being trumpeted
about; in Parkes it gives rise to jibes at his poverty. I
happen to know that this is no new thing. Parkes has
never regarded either bankruptcy or a release as a bar to
any claim by a, creditor for a debt incurred by him on his
own account if the creditor were in want of money. The
interest on the fund subscribed for the old man has always
gone to support his children by his first wife and other
dependents—l 6 in all. Parkes himself has never touched
one penny of it. Farther, his account for carriage-hire
for the years during which he was unable to walk
amounted to several hundreds. Under these circum-
stances it is not very surprising that he should again be
nara-up, but it is surprising that his poverty should be so
differently regarded from the poverty of, say, Dibbs.
Very Rev. Hussey Burgh Macartney,
Bean of Melbourne, achieved another birthday on
Tuesday of the present week, when this striking
example of clerical longevity entered his 96th
year. Ordained a deacon of Limerick nearly 72
y™ rs ago, Hussey Macartney was already a
middle-aged man at the time of his arrival in
Melbourne with Bishop Perry—January 3rd,
He has added 46 years of “colonial experi-
ence ’ to his peaceful history, and is still preach-
Since 1851 he has held the position of Dean
of Melbourne, laying up occasionally considerable
treasures on earth, it is said, in that long mean-
time. Neither brilliant nor broad-minded, the
Dean of Melbourne is at least a competent theo-
logian of the old, Jonah-and-the-whale school;
also, the fact that his father was an Irish baronet
is an excuse for his inherent Toryism. Whatever
may be said for, or against, his Scriptural teach-
ing, it were absurd to deny the claims of Dean
Macartney—the possessor of a sound mind in a
nonogenarian body—to rank as a truly remarkab’o
person and parson.
PHOTO. BY FOSTER & MARTIN, COLLINS-ST., MELR.
THE DEAN OF MELBOURNE, Born April 10, 17[?]
How Victoria goes to bed :
Two maids undress the Queen. Before she gets into
bed, they heat and spread between the Irish linen sheets
a white blanket, part wool, part cotton, and bound with
white silk ribbon, with the royal arms embroidered in the
corner. With brandy and water for a nightcap, Queen
Victoria reclines upon the blanket until her body is
thoroughly heated. The maids then withdraw‘the
blanket, and the finest product of Ireland’s loom embraces
the Queen of England and the Empress of India.
And does she snore much ?


CHEAP BUILDING BLOCKS
Close to the City of Sydney.
£2O each Grand Blocks at CARLTON. 8 miles from
Sydney, 40 x 132. Gas and City Water. Asphalt
paths. Easy terms. 14s. per Month.
£8 etch Marine Villa Sites, MANLY BEACH. 10s.
Deposit and ss. per Month; no interest. Free
Deeds included in the £B.
£5 each Capital Residential Blocks, ROOTY HILL.
10s. Deposit ; ss. per Month ; no interest. Free
Deeds; Torrens.
£lO for Blocks 50 x 150 at MERRYLANDS. 131
for Land 89 x 396; cost £65. GUILDFORD
Cheap Lots £5 each ; ss. Deposit; ss. Monthly.
£25 for Land 82 x 190, next Clyde Railway Sheds ;
£1 Deposit; 10s. Monthly.
If you want to make Money, buy now. Land will never
be Cheaper. Plans sent anywhere ; Post Free. Apply—
®. V. BROUGHTON, Auctioneer,
801 Pm Street, SYDNEY. Established 1878.
am;
wm
i
PHOTOGRAPHY!
Gin a body meet a body cornin’ down the street;
Gin a body snap a body, need a body see’t.
Every laddie has a faddie, why then shouldn’t I ?
To snap a face in public place, “A Cameret” I’ll buy.”
Frice 355.
YOU PRESS THE BUTTON-WE DO THE REST.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues to
BAKER & BOUSE,
375 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
360 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
69 RUNDLB STREET ADELAIDE
—AND —
46 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
BE ON GUARD
AGAINST THE
VILE AND INJURIOUS IMITATIONS
OF
CLEMENTS TONIC
SOLD BY MANY DEALERS,
CLEMENTS TONIC IS THE
BEST, ORIGINAL
AND ONLY GENUINE.
Don’t be deceived or misled into buying any
other, or your pains, time and money are only
thrown away.
CLEMENTS TONIC
POSITIVELY CURES ALL OASES
ARISING FROM
ANAEMIA, LIVER COMPLAINT
AND INDIGESTION.
Mrs. Ross, High-st., Waratah, N.S.W., who
writes on January 25,1893 —About twelve months
ago I had a severe attack of influenza, which left
me in a very weak state. Although I was attended
by a doctor I derived no benefit from his medicine.
I had a complete loss of appetite attended by
continual headache and dizziness ; at times I felt
as if I could not live a day longer. I had given
up all hopes of ever recovering. On seeing Mrs.
Dent, of Lambton’s, testimonial in the newspaper,
and knowing the lady personally, I resolved to try
Clements Tonic. Before I had finished the first
bottle all the disagreeable symptoms vanished.
I then took another bottle and felt entirely cured.
I am only too happy to recommend Clements Tonic.
I believe it is the best medicine in the world for a
weak and debilitated constitution.—Yours grate-
fully, Mrs. Ross, High-street, Waratah, N.S.W.
Witness—Thomas Watson.
POLITICAL POINTS
Prospective S.A. deficit on 30th June,
£60,000.
Maoriland revenue returns for March
quarter are expected to show a £200,000 surplus.
The advance towards prohibition in Maori-
iand will at least retard woman-suffrage in Aus-
tralia.
M‘llwraith objects to manhood suffrage.
He only believes in the electoral rights of “things,”
not of “men.”
A favourite expression on “King”
Stddon’s lips is: “I am not Dick Seddon now;
Lut the Premier of Maoriland.”
The Queensland Labour members now
style themselves the “Progress ” party, and their
opponents the “ Plunder ” party.
Walker, M.P., has at last got his Distress
for Rent Abolition Bill through N.S.W. Assembly.
It will, of course, be “ slung out ” of the House of
Landlords.
A year ago, there were 30 lepers at N.S.W.
leper station, at Little Bay. Now there are 36.
Whatever else may fail the good old leper turns
up regularly.
“Beauty draws us with a single hair.”
Yet Parkes illogically argues that Westraliana
favour Federatu n because they rushed to hear
him lecture.
G D. Clark, M.P., declares that the
U.S.W. Labour Electoral League wants to enforce
a new electioneering principle—the one-member-
one-term vogue.
S.A. Labour programme for L.O. elections
contains, as the main plank, the increase of the
land values tax to one penny, with a corresponding
remission of revenue duties.
What a satire ! A public meeting held to
protest against the opium traffic on the very day
that a Sydney publican is fined for selling sul-
phuric acid rot-gut as wholesome whisky.
Bacon: “Many things are assumed to
exist because they have had names given to them.”
The “ Anglo-Saxon race,” for instance. Also,
“British fair play” and Australian “loyalty !”
Adelaide believes that Westralia’s prospec-
tive advance to the dignity of a first-class province
will make more roseate the chances of the holy
city’s selection as Australia’s federal capital.
The House of Kossuth has swallowed its
vjmit. Before the old man’s ptomaines were fully
developed, his son had, “after consideration,”
decided to swear allegiance to the Hapsburgs.
The Beacon (Max Hirsch) : “What is the
Argus about? For 20 years and more it has
opposed Protection in all its forms, and now,
when victory is near it turns round and advocates
it.”
CONVENIENT.
Dr, Renwick having said it was so cold in Chicago that his jaw was frozen “like a
bar of iron,” this paper makes a little suggestion to several jawsters.
Ex-Premier M‘llwraith has expressed his
confidence in the discretion of the Queensland
Parliamentary Labour-party. The confidence of
the wolf in the lamb, of the burglar in the poisoned
house-dog.
The N.S.W. National Mule is considering
a suggestion that every elector be legally com-
pelled to vote at each Parliamentary election. The
Mule is, therefore, moving to ensure its own
speedy funeral.
Sydney has evolved a “ German Political
Union,” set upon influencing the coming N.S.W.
elections. Its platform is—Freetection, Single-
trade, Pro-tax, Imperial Federation, Republi-
canism, German Colonisation, Labour Concilia-
tion, Freedom of Contract, and laws to prohibit
over-production. Vich blatform can be aldered
to suit eferybodies.
Six hundred thousand pounds arrears by
Victorian land selectors, .£30,000 annual interest.
Do Patterson and Co, expect this to be paid,
while they are giving away land and money to
the village settlers ?
“ The figure of speech is a strong one, but
it scarcely overstates the imminence of the peril
which confronts the country, while still drifting
to leeward at the rate of £l5OO a day.”—Melb.
Age, April 3, 1894.
To keep an appointment with his con-
stituents, Labour-member M'Donald (Q.) lately
rode 125 miles in a day and a-half, qver bad roads
and flooded country. Yet people wonder that
the Labour-party prospers!
The S.A. Govt, newspaper-advertising
bills are now the smallest in Australasia. How-
ever, this is not all gain, as the papers have more
than proportionately cut down their telegraphic
messages as a quid pro quo.
The British House of Commons has passed
by ten votes a motion in favour of Home Rule for
Scotland. The two Unions, both carried through
by bribery and open, shameless corruption, are
falling to pieces almost simultaneously.
After a vigorous teetotal canvass for votes
on local option at Rockdale (N.S.W.) municipal
election, one voter only turned up. The cost of
collecting and enumerating him was five guineas,
and on scrutiny his paper was discovered to be
informal.
The democratic vote is sadly split at S.A.
Council election. For the two vacant Central
seats, two labour-men, one independent, and one
progressive candidate woo the democratic vote,
and one Ass. candidate, Mayor Willoox, gets the
block property vote.
A poor Queensland Labour-member, the
other day, renewed a .£2O bill-of-sale over his
personal effects. No man who is at the mercy of
a bill-discounter for his household goods can freely
work in Parliament for the Labour-party. Nor
can he for £l5O a year.
About a thousand Chinese, farming 5000
acres, are settled on the Herbert, N.Q. Rents
from £1 per acre upwards. Chinese sampans on
the river; Chinese costumes in the field by day ;
tom-toms and opium by night. Come now —Is
the Caucasian played out ?
An assertive M.L.A. wrote to the chair-
man of a meeting in his (N.S.W.) district the
other day: “My views are exactly the same as
when you last elected me,” and was astonished to
find that the meeting resolved : Therefore, he was
not a fit and proper person.
Minister for Lands Barlow (Q.) has evi-
dently a bad memory, otherwise he would not
have forgotten that in May, ’BB, he described his
present friend, MTlwraith, as “Barabbas.” This
little fact did a lot to put Labour-member Wil-
kinson in for Ipswich, Liars and politicians need
good memories.
Accidental admission by Sydney D.T. :
Were the people to go away the (railway) lines would
be worth what they would fetch as old iron, while the un-
alienated Crown lands would have no value at all.
Corollary: Were the people to go away, the
alienated lands of the province would also have no
value at all.
It is anomalous that under the N.S.W.
Electoral Act, even in its improved state, a man
may be more effectually disfranchised by changing
his residence, perhaps only a stone-throw, than
by committing a crime. From the date of his
arrest until he is sentenced, if he can get bail, he
can vote, but if he change his residence he, for
three months, no matter what equivalent to bail
he offers, is as completely deprived of his franchise
rights as if he had been sentenced to three months
imprisonment.
In N.S.W., 257,320 of the names on the
electoral rolls are those of men who don’t own a
square foot of land. On the other hand, 677
persons (not all voters) own 21,000,000 acres of
N.S.W. soil, or nearly half the alienated land. If
there be any virtue in manhood suffrage, the next
election should immediately precede some notable
reforms.
To show the absolute absurdity of titles,
what truly great man is ever mentioned but by his
name alone! The only exception to that rule
is Lord Edward Fitzgerald, whom the Irish still
continue to honour by his full title, because they
were surprised that there could be discovered a
lord with manhood enough to fight and die for the
rights of the people.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have re
duced by 10 per cent, all salaries over £2OO a year,
and cut down the days worked by wages-men
from ten to nine a fortnight. This is unpleasant;
but the Commissioners say there is no other way
to make ends meet. The Bulletin trusts they
won’t need reminding to raise salaries again when
revenue improves.
Cardinal Moran wants religious schools to
abolish selfishness. His philosophy is unsound.
Self-interest is, and must remain, the mainspring
of human endeavour. It only needs enlightenment,
and this is given by scientific morality, which
very often conflicts with the current religions.
“ Every creed is a rock in running water,
Humanity sweeps by it.”
The working classes are no better and no
worse than other classes, says the condescending
Argus. But inasmuch as toil is a great discipli-
narian and humaniser, it is certain that the
A WESTERN SACRILEGE.
‘Parkes, Australia’s Veteran Statesman” —(as depicted by
P ERTH W.[?]. INQUIRET).
working classes have a moral, as well as physical,
advantage over the class that doesn t work at all.
The least intellectual kind of labour is better for
a man than the careless pursuit of pleasure.
Federation ! Do not most of the political
schemes savour of an attempt to chloroform
democracy by placing the executive far from the
direct pressure of the constituencies? Especial
danger lies in the proposal to have an Upper
House elected by the Parliaments. The manifold
evils of the present representative system would
be but the cube-root of the evils of such a plan.
The N.S.W. Parliamentary Labour-party
has unanimously decided not to sign the pledge
drawn up by the central committee of the Labour
Electoral League. The central committee, some
time ago, decided that every candidate who didn’t
sign the pledge should be opposed at the polls,
and should not be recognised as a genuine Labour
candidate, so war is apparently declared on both
sides.
Chief Justice Way, of S.A., had arranged
to visit Brother Duff in Sydney, but Premier
Kingston found that Mr. Way’s letters-patent as
Lieut.-Governor did not provide for the appoint-
ment of a deputy to act in his absence. So he had
to stay at home. Yet Mr. Way did once absent
himself from the province, and appointed Justice
Bundey to act for him. The legal nose here smells
complications.
Direct and proportional taxation of wealth
is the true policy of democracy. The single-tax
on land is not sufficient. It must be supplemented
by a tax on incomes, or a tax on property apart
from land. Mr. Asquith, British Home Secre-
tary, shelves the question of the abolition of mine
royalties, because it would cost the country
.£130,000,000. The remedy is not to abolish them,
but to tax them —burst them up as Maoriland
bursts up the big estates.
Bitter complaints in Bananaland re matters
judicial. Three Supreme Court Judges in the
South, two in the North, three District Court
Judges, with Crown Prosecutors and other officials
at their beck and call—all for a paltry popula-
tion of some 400,000. If a case is set down for
hearing at the Supreme Court in Brisbane, ten to
one you find it is the Judge’s vacation week, a,nd
the Judge on duty refuses to take an application
set down for his “ learned brother.”
In reply to a question, the other day, as to
whether a N.S.W. Judge had recently assigned
his estate, Premier Dibbs replied : “ I think I
know every member of the Supreme Court Bench
at the present moment, and I do not think that
any one of the Judges would fill the high and
responsible office which he holds in a manner
derogatory to the position.” Dibbs is not usually
a success at giving evasive answers, but the above
pompous and dreary platitude isn’t bad.
The A.N.A. (Vic.) introduces its rules
with a statement that it takes no part in party
politics. On the strength of this it has gained
many benefit-members. But at its Warrnambool
conference, the other day, it took a stand on the
One-man-one-vote and Woman’s Suffrage ques-
tion. However desirable these may be in them-
selves, does this action not savour of breach of
faith, perhaps even breach of trust ? Does not its
action in this respect bring it under the unrepealed
conspiracy laws of George 111. ?
A Cape of Good Hope journal remarks, in
a purely business tone, that the flogging of natives
for walking on the pavements at Johannesburg
“ is having a bad effect on the labour-market.”
The fact that it may be having a bad effect on the
hinder part of the native doesn’t seem to enter
into the question at all.
“ Every institution holds within itself the
seeds of its own destruction.” This dragon-tooth
seed of society is anarchism. Society is centri-
petalism, anarchy centrifugalism. Society and
anarchism are the action and reaction of the
herding tendency of men. Bakunin is the Huss
of Society, the Wickliffe of civilisation. And as
the Lollards were crushed into contempt by
mediaeval Catholicism only to burst forth in Re-
formation flames, so anarchism will become a
byword first, and then a fire of purification.
Henri, the boy-Anarchist,
now under death-sentence at
Paris: “When the working
classes succeed, they are ab-
sorbed into the infernal bour-
geoisie. It is like a cask that has
once contained vinegar. You
may put the finest wine into it
ever afterwards, but nothing but
vinegar will come out.”
Premier Patterson rose
the other day over the festive
board, amid the grease and the
crumbs, and with rich wine drib-
bling down his beard, and ex-
plained that the depression
wasn’t such a bad thing after
all, because it had “ brought
the churches more in touch with
the masses,” and “caused a
more general and true Christian
feeling than at any former
period,” The Bulletin wants to
ask this heartless ex-slaughter-
man one question. Supposing
he had lost his little all in some
bank run by a number of fraudu-
lent church members, and was
in the habit of sleeping in a
dust-bin, and looking for aged
crusts in ash-boxes, and was an
object of scorn to all beholders,
how much better would he feel
for the knowledge that the
church was “ more in touch with
the masses”? The rich man
who throws hunks of stale gib-
berish like this to the hungry
and wretched is a hog by in-
stinct and a monkey by educat : on.
Tiia uncouth Governor M'Gregor, of New
Guinea, has a peculiar method of pacifying the
rampant native. First of all he thoroughly licks
the recalcitrant tribesmen, and then he makes six or
eight of the biggest of them into policemen. After
that the tribe is strictly loyal because every man
hopes some day to be made a policeman also. The
yearning of the Papuan to be a “trap” is some-
thing incredible. But it is absolutely necessary
to lick the tribesmen first of all, else they would
rise in insurrection and insist on being all made
policeman.
Sherbrooke’s “humorous illustration of
democracy” is gleefully quoted by Melb. Argus
reduced:—
Democracy is like a crowded omnibus wherein the
passengers try to turn the driver off the box and take the
reins themselves.
Conservatism is also like a crowded omnibus on a
bad road, wherein the passengers are all asleep,
having cheerfully trusted themselves to a driver
who may be blind and paralytic, but who is bus-
driving because he is a deceased ’bus-driver’s
eldest son.
Re the perennial topic of establishing a
morning Protectionist paper in Sydney—“ What’s
the good?” lately asked Dibbs. “It’s the
hostility of the Freetrade press that has kept me
in office. Take Tom Slattery, where would he be
if the Freetrade press had power ? Where would
Copeland be? Not a cent of mine will ever go
into a Protectionist paper; better, like See, buy
shares in a Freetrade paper. Far better for our
crowd to be denounced by the Herald and Tele-
graph than to be praised by an organ of our
own.”
Dear Bulletin, —Isn’t it rather premature
to talk of bringing the deluded and disbanded;
Rue-Australians back? The Royal Tar will soon
be back to take another lot, who are ready and
waiting to go. And why not ? You have given
them to understand that if things do go wrong
the good old Government won’t see them stranded.
Thus, you deliberately encourage new recruits to
make fools of themselves by taking away the
natural penalty of their folly. In fact, now I
know Dibbs will bring me back if I don’t like it, I
have serious thoughts of going to Rue' Australia
myself. lam fond of travel, and a sea voyage
will do me all the good in the world.—Yours, A.


Moreover, Mr.' Patterson has got
hold'of the great truth that if we want
to sell to other countries we must
be willing to buy from them. And
this, of course, is the very essence of
the tariff reform argument. We receive
payment for all our products in com-
modities. Nations never send us goldj
but always goods. /I -Jj)~y Z/L $ "
££E|JWIE
WIL L
T/O/v
ftcrfAi'ny cos Tum e s
Suitable, for t) usThOrj/o*
u/-e rejoru it- eoL.
MR.’REID’S MISSION.
VISIT TO PARIS.
vrffA ~/Ae. ate/ c*. sneus-y/foon
c*nc( ct b o7V/,€-/a.i'ajo jiecles'f'/-
—/a-nS rocr\ -?-? o «
co?tict!n<> w/A/, -/A e eieC T/-/ C
t/aA/~ ho £7s .
ğ
Comparatively, William Paul Green is]
6ne ihe„ happiest m«u in Melbourne to*
The shadow of (h« galiowa which has,
bean banging over him for several days
oast has disappeared. ’
JveurS /fa mil
*
EXTRAORDINARY CRUELTY TO
A BOY.
h J a f
%
%
l T r ;er regards the revenue returns
M hopeful. Impossible to estimate the
year’s deficiency, he says. Depression
over’; now on the up ’grade. Thus Mr
Carter.
y c L7 3 /-ozA.c7 < 7 > os/'f/'on.
/Ae &OV* as Aq fut-neci
oicT-Ta
li/f 'er<rt i .11 i u
r^kh foS
o
<6 1
I , n s^' tk ■■
fir <f/fi
ITM ll >
■ to
r |{rf
y7je. l^eccjoer'
T'kr- -
They have
refused to attend the church whilst Mt.
White remains as pastor, ami they have been
compelled to attend the Church of England,
much against their inclinations. Recently
the Messrs. Cbirnside have intimated
that, unless Mt. White is removed, they
will stop contributing to the minister’s
stipend, and throw in tfTeir lot with the
Church of England worhippers at the 'Werri-
bee township.
THINGS VICTORIAN.


/Sr
fIP
©A
&
UmM
Uf)isciw-s
C,ofcf I'] hfat
■%
Sir Henry Parkes saw in one ot
1 the, brinks a nugget weighing 1030 z., perfectly
clean and free from stone.
RETURN ©F SIR HENRY PARKES.
Sir Henry Parkes returned yesterday from
hia West Australian trip. .He is much
improved in 'as the result of ms
joprney.'
STATE UME
V V /
iP & *1
Smd%Q»«rno/of e
Wfcia, its atowtinje lwwv * t-
, »%W s£*fa # S
vttvte Lin£
h%
/
i
'fry f'
J-j'fT/k ScdK^
London, Friday.—The Emperor Wil-
liam of Germany and King Humbert of
Italy are to meet at Venice, and personally
discuss the best means for the repression
of anarchy.
«IK <siw° r^ c ®‘ nC *'
Wo<i‘,S "Hallo'
uf, y^acfdytJ'S^red
. a Covet l v I
c *'* bn * '*® t )
Scroti’) 5 S 3 > -r
t L, rrt
W of Co**&"
<» f 7?/ *
* 'cfroj-tr
- INFERIOR TEA;
-Mr. Neild asked the Premier in the
Assembly yesterday whether he was aware
that 199 half-chests of rubbish, dangerous to
tile public health, had been sold at auction
the previous day under the guise of “ tea ”
at 3jd per lb. He would hand the lion,
gentleman a sample of it, which he was told
was colored with chemical matter.
WTEP-
ġ
ģ
g
a\j 1 t
jtoy f° f i s^/^ u X
London, Friday Night.—Frank P.
Slaving • the Australian pugilist, Las be-
come' bankrupt. His liabilities are set
down at £7OO, and his assets at ail.
Surrey
qy stiff*" '
A STRANGE GLOBE-TROTTER. _
Mr. Edward A. Wilkie, “a tramp abroad,’
who is going round the world to win a ,wager,
is in Sydney in fulfilment of the ’project. Mr. ,
Wilkie is a young New York journalist and
collcgihn. who, -being in bad health a few
months ago, took up a challenge that he
would put a girdle round the earth with-
out asking his friends for assistance.
. he induced the
steamship agents to let him work his
passage to Australia by the R.M.S. Alameda, u)
as
/ s-Zeci*}-
a flanja.l /j
UP TO DATE.


WEST AUSTRALIA.
U'ORTUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those who bought
Land in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
years back, and fortunes are waiting for those who buy
nowin PERTH (the capital city)and ALBANY, WEST
AUSTRALIA.
GRAND VIEW ESTATE, PERTH.
Splendid Building Sites.
£lO Each. £1 Deposit; 10/- Monthly. No Interest.
PERTH CITY LOTS,
From £4O each. Very Cheap. Easy Terms.
ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Grand position. From £l5 each. Easy Terms.
Title guaranteed perfect. No forfeiture if ill or out of
work. Send for plans and Government map, showing true
position of land.
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
Limited,
(Established Perth and Sydney, 18S5),
509 Pllt-st, SYDNEY. W. J. Douglas, Manager.
ĝ
g
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CKLKBRATED
EYE LOTION,
rpHIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Blight,
x Inflamed Byes and Bids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to, those who have Weak Byes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, 3s. per liottle.
Manufactured Solelyby 11. A. KOSK. Chemist.
631 GEORGE aTREET, SYDNEY.
By 19 votes to 16 the presbytery of Mel-
f ffW fetal
09
a
(X)
r
mormn^wifb
rckrr
JJook-piends k Insurance •
/^§ e r n^s • dnnk only
WOLF£SSCHNAPPS
Society
The mam objection N.S.W. Instruction
Department has to married women being re-
tained in the service is to be found in the fact
that Australian fifth-class school-girls are noto-
rious y precocious. Besides which, giving black-
oard lessons entails a deal of tiresome arm-
reaching on the part of the ladies.
* • »
When the officers of the Baratarian Navi'
gation Co. are in various ports, and while the
boats are empty of passengers, it is their custom
to hold conviviaHittle suppers, to which guests ot
both sexes are invited. This fact happened to
come to the ears of the various W.C.T.U.s of the
ports en route, who lately were impudent enough
to petition the company for an immediate sup-
pression of this “vice.” The co. curtly replied
that it had every confidence in its officers, and
was perfectly satisfied with the manner in which
their duties were performed.
• « *
The W.C.T.U. has appointed a committee
to inquire into the condition of Australian bar-
maids. Lough! Let the barmaids respond with
t(> ' nc J u ' re into the condition of the
W.b. I. U.
• • tt
“A Barmaid,” in Sydney Telegraph:
I have never been compelled to witness sights or
listen to any language that would shock even the
sisters of the W.C.T.U.” “Even” is good.
When asked to suggest employment for bar-
maids deprived, by legislation, of their present
means of living, the W.C.T.U. shrieks : “ Let
them can fruit! ” In a word, let them compete
on equal or less than equal terms with a class of
female labour which now gets but 10s. or 15s.
weekly with food thrown in. The average bar-
maid is a good-looking woman, and her beauty is
no doubt part of her stock-in-trade just as the
beauty of many a good-looking and virtuous
actress, or tradesman’s wife who serves in her
husband s shop, is part of her stock-in-trade.
Sour hagdom naturally revolts from the idea that
a woman’s beauty should he of any pecuniary or
other advantage to her. But it is, and it is going
to be for ever and ever ; and the last pretty bar-
maid, The Bulletin hopes, will only disappear
when, by Act of the Federal Legislature, the
vineyards of Australia are uprooted because a
number of impotent males and anaemic virgins in
CANDOUR.
BENEVOLENT MAN ( condoling with Mrs. O'Hooligan, who has a large family) :
And yet, withal, my good woman, you would be very sorry to
lose one of them, wouldn’t ye now?”
Mrs. O’HOOLIGAN; : “Well, yis, but ye see, sorr, they costs more to bury
nor to kape.”
Parliament assembled have ukased that there is
to be no more wine.
Let The Bulletin say it again. The Aus-
tralian “ teetotal question ” all resolves itself into
this : “ Are you prepared to uproot the vine-
yards?” If you are, then you are the sort of
crank who would shut down the gold-mines
because they give rise to gambling.
* * *
The International Christian Police Asso-
cintion is one of the fluffy refulgences of fin-de-
sitcle, female-pushed reform. A Miss Mary E.
Raymond has established a Sydney branch of the
same and has invited the armed guardians of the
peace to attend a social gathering and become
Christianised. The potentialities of the situation
slip from imagination’s grasp. The “copinaji ”
spirituosised we know, but the “copman ” spirit-
ualised is a being beyond the reach of fancy. The
fad is simply a fascinating phase of feminine
lunacy, and therein lies the secret of its origin.
The female fancy, in countries where real, blood-
dabbling don’t perennially rage, feeds
principally on policemen. The Bulletin prefers
its policemen in the heathen state, and would
rather trust them with revolvers than with
gimlets.
* # *
Roberts, the new Victorian flagellator, is
a complete success after all. His first attempt
was so poor that the “authorities” thought of
requesting him to send in his resignation, but last
week a burglar had to be operated upon, and to
the satisfaction of all right-thinking persons
Roberts “wielded the lash very severely.”—
In Melbourne,
last Thursday, a
young man was sent
to gaol for twelve
months for attempt-
ing to pick a lady’s
pocket. It after-
wards transpired
that the lady had
no pocket, and as
nobody can attempt
to steal from a place
when there is no
such place to steal
from, any reason-
ably smart lawyer
could presumably
have got him off on
a beautiful point of
law. But he hadn’t
the means to pay a
lawyer, so the sta-
tutes fell upon and
flattened him.
# #
The Prince of
Wales is said to
have given his
“ patronage ” to the
coloured dress-coat.
The utter impossi-
bility'of distinguish-
ing the average
British aristocrat
from the flat-footed
waiter under exist-
ing sartorial condi-
tions has induced
this step.
• •
An ingenious
young lady on Syd-
ney “block” pads
her Jersey-coloured
locks with The Bul-
letin’s red cover.
The colours match
sowellthatitis hard
to discern the trick.
« *
A man who, five years ago, was about the
smartest and best-known financier in Australia,
can now be met with almost any day in a shirtless
•and almost shoeless condition, his principal gar-
ments being a tattered pair of pants and a singlet.
He used to have the most gorgeous suite of offices in
the city, and his mansion was a palace on a small
scale. He was a long, dark, silent, unhappv-
looking, keen-eyed man in those days, and he looks
just about the same now, barring the tatters and
the absence of the shirt. Since his fall he has been
so absolutely forgotten that hardly anyone seems
to be aware of his existence, and his unshaven
spectre wanders about and looks blankly at the
old suite of offices, where another man runs the
old business, and passes almost without recogni-
tion. The other day, however, a former clerk
came upon the greasy apparition of his ex-
employer leaning against a lamp-post. He
was gaunt and wild-looking, and he wore
the unkempt aspect of a man who cuts his
own hair with a nail in the Domain. “ I was
just wondering where in all the world yon had got
to,” said the clerk; “there’s a man needs your
signature to fix up some old trust business. He’ll
give yon two guineas tor it,” “ Two guineas !”
yelled the man of lost tens of thousands, as he
jumped in the air with excitement and grabbed at
the atmosphere with ten horny fingers ; “ where
is he ?”
Almost alongside this fallen magnate’s mansion
THE BRIGHT LEXICON OF BUST.
HEAVY MELB. FATHER: “With energy and perseverance every young
man can succeed. There’s no such word as fail! ”
HOPEFUL SON: “You’re right there, Father,— it’s reconstruct.”
is what was once the gorgeous residence of another
financier. This financier is also fallen—in fact, he
is in gaol. There is material here for a picture to
be called “The Prodigal’s Return.” It should
represent the present owner of one of these
luxurious establishments smoking a big, fat
cigar on the tiled verandah on a moonlight
night, and, just visible against the full moon, the
broken hat and tattered, spiky hair of the former
owner who has stopped in his drift through life
to look over the fence at the scene of his former
greatness. There are a good many such men around
Sydney, and they make instinctive pilgrimages to
their old homes, and heave sighs over the garden
railings. Therefore, when a man has risen to
sudden wealth and has taken a big and garish-
looking house, the apparition of the former owner
groaning outside the gate serves as a solemn
lesson upon the uncertainty of riches. But the
man inside seldom heeds the lesson, and generally
sools his dog at the apparition.
* * *
The hitherfco-profitable game of joining
the Young Men’s Christian Association is quite
played out. The godly youth, who formerly made
the Association a stepping-stone to a position of
trust, has so frequently been bowled out, and
bowled into gaol, that no really level-beaded
merchant will take a Y.M.C.A. man on at any
price. By the way, the Melb. branch has had to
abandon its pretentious new building in Bourke-
street, through inability to pay interest on the
mortgage.
* * #
A certain smart man bas somehow got
himself appointed receiver of English remittances
for a wild young Irishman. The Irish youth
i nagines that the remittances reach his friend at
the end of each month, whereas they really arrive
in the middle. Just about the time the trustee gets
the com the Irishman is stone-broke, and appeals
to his good friend for advances. The “advance ”
consists of half the money the trustee has already
received, and the Milesian gives a bill for the
whole amount. Thus the noble trustee shares
.£lOO a month, has no risk, and has got in hand
bills on demand, I O IPs, and other securities
(which should have been returned to the “mug”)
amounting to some =£4ooo. The Hebrew financier
is simply a philanthropist compared to this smart
man.
# * •
Two more declared lepers—Kanakas -at
Rockhampton. Does Australia get its leprosy
from nigger-handled sugar?
* * •
The Bulletin is assured that the state-
ments made in a recent is ue by “an old member
of the Australian Club” (Melb.) were incorrect.
While the entrance tee has been temporarily re-
duced, and has now reverted to .£5O, the annual sub-
scription bas never been varied. “In common with
other first-class clubs members have the privilege
of introducing friends to dinner under certain
restrictions, but strangers are not otherwise
privileged, while the statement respecting notices
in rooms concerning thefts has absolutely no
foundation on fact.” The Australian is now said
to be in a very sound financial position.
* * *
During a prosy speaker’s address at Hobart
Church Congress, a parson’s wife, who felt drowsi-
ness fast overcoming her, borrowed a bottle of
volatile essence from a neighbour, which she in-
haled with gratifying results. Then, turning to a
gentleman next her, who appeared to be equally
somnolent, she said : “ Would you like this to
smell?” He replied : “No, thank you, madam, I
prefer to sleep.”
• • •
Be the Sydney publican found guilty of
adding sulphuric acid to his draught whisky, and
fined <£2o in the Central Police Court last week.
Had a man been caught selling good whisky
without a license the fine would have been £5O ;
and had he been caught making good whisky on
the sly and selling it he would have been fined
£lOO or sent to gaol for 12 months. A publican’s
license ooveretb a multitude of sins.
bourne North decided not to aid the neglected
children of any rival denomination. As though
neg'ected infants could bo divided into sects.
Little children get away from us, “for of such,”
&o.
® # #
One of the queerest things in the recent
Sydney juvenile temperance procession was the
four policeman marching abreast in the van, and
having over their heads the floating legend —“ For
of these are the children of God.”
* m »
A Melb. lady tells a
sensational story about
how she was walking
along St. Kilda-road,
about 9.15, on a recent
evening, when she was
rushed by “a man 34
years of age,” who threw
her down, presented a
revolver at her head, &c.
The extreme circumstan-
tiality of this lady is her
most remarkable feature.
People are apt to be
sceptical about any female
who is assaulted at a
quarter-past nine by a
man 34 years of age.
They feel much the same
about her as they do about
the person who is stunned
at midnight by being
struck on the head from
behind by a dark man,
sft. llin. high, with one
back tooth missing, and
who only comes to him-
self after lying insensible
for 49J minutes. The
complainant who is too
definite is lost.
« #
In future the enfant
terrible present at
“knioker” weddings (the
twoohildren, for instance,
so happily described by
Henry Kingsley) wi I
amuse themselves by
sticking pins into thb
bridesmaid’s calves dur-
ing the most solemn part
of the service. If she
screams it’s genuine; if
not it’s padding. There
is a big field before
the young brother if
“knioker” weddings be-
come fashionable.
This is the “ad.” which The Bulletin
has long been waiting to see, bub, so far, without
any success :
T John Smith, hereby give notice that 1 will not be
; > responsible for my own debts after this date.
(Signed) JOHN SMITH.
The BuLLETiN.submits that the above is the sort
of tiling which would supply a long-felt want.
The world is full of men who want to pay their
debts, but are constitutionally incapable of ever
having any money. Therefore, it should be com-
petent for every man of this sorb to have himself
registered as a financial lunatic, and to announce
in the papers thereafter, say every three months,
so as to keep the matter before the public, that
he isn’t responsible for his own debts. After
that, anyone who gives him credit does it en-
tirely at his own risk, for all debts due by him
are irrecoverable. If a man developes financial
lunacy and refuses to register himself, then his
friends or creditors should be empowered to have
him declared—upon the examination of two un-
biassed money-lenders, who will give the needful
certificates—-a dangerous monetary idiot, after
which will be duly advertised at his own ex-
pense. The man who isn’t responsible for his
wife’s debts doesn’t matter; very few men’s wives
get much chance to run into debt, and the notice
is generally inserted out of pure cussedness. It is
the man who isn’t responsible for his own debts
who is the cause of all the trouble.
* * #
Sydney Evening News “matrimonial.”
&c. ’
Gent., good repute, desires meeting
refined Lady means, or widow. Adolphus Park-
street P.O.
“Ethiopian” is good; so is “gent.” However
some white women absolutely love nigs.
* * #
Editor Bulletin,- The Vic. Presbyterian
Assembly has set apart a Sunday for the conver-
sion of the Jews. Each costs .£BOO. Why don’t
the Jews set apart a Saturday for the conversion
of the Presbyterians? They could get quite a
heap of ’em for a fiver apiece—a lot of the Cal-
vinists are sue i awful ‘ Jews” already.—Yours
Aaron Cohkn.
* # »
Maoriland licensing election. Scene : The
outside of a country polling-booth. Hot argument
between “ pros ” and “ante-pros,” The Town
Scavenger clinches an argument in favour of pro-
hibition with : “Look here, mates, I’d a sooner
’ave a cup o’ ’ot tea with a hegg in it as all yer
beer in the country.”
*
Melbournian : My suburban local Police-
man X is a most affectionate guardian of my
property. One night, as I thought and walked
ROBRRTS. TOI QUE J' AIME!
Smile again, and be no longer
Haunted by a phantom fear,
Roberts, daily waxing stronger,
Makes his floggings quite severe ;
Now the victim, full of feeling,
Meets his fate as one would wish-
No mistake about his squealing*
When the cat begins to swish.
Blood besprinkles wall and ceiling ;
Church-hells in the distance pealing
Mingle quaintly with his squealing
When the cat begins to swish
One 1 two 1 three I begins to swish.
Roberts, starting rather badly,
Caused a lot of discontent;
Fat Man dropped his Argus sadly,
Vowed he wasn’t worth a cent,
Musing, mumbling ’midst his feeding.
Took more bacon from the dish :
“ More than this their backs are needi.ig
When the cat begins to swish !”
Painful news for morning reading—
“ Roberts ought to set them bleeding,
Writhing, cursing, swearing, pleading,
When the cat begins to swish—
Yes, by Jove ! begins to swish.”
Now the news is “not so dusty”—
Roberts does his duty well.
Flagellator stout and lusty
Gives the beggars burning h L
Drops of gore the warders spatter
Freely as the Law could wish ;
Callous hearts go pitter-patter
When the cat begins to swish.
“P’raps he’ll die—it doesn't m liter, **
Smite him hard upon the smaller—
Ali his teeth are on the chatter
When the cat begins to swish.
“ Oh ! my God !” begins to swish.
Total abstinence—Sly grog.


r \r
0-0 TO HELL-
-IGGLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
S i- (.lie Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6(1.
1 Installed Price List of Foreign and
Australasiali Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN &. CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
f-aa Send ONE and 3 PENCE >“ STAMPS
(OP ANY COLONY;
And PURCHASE (Post Free) any one of the following Useful Reference Books :
Profitable Poultry Book
The Self-Educator Book
Comic Recitations Book
Ready-made Speeches Book
How to Play Billiards
Colonists’ Guide to Health
How to Train—Running, etc.
The Popular Song Book
House Painting and Papering
Whist and Card Games
Athletics and Gymnastics
Familiar Quotations
Character in Faces and Features
Letter Writer’s Manual
Character in Handwriting
Handy Book on the Horse
Handy Carpentry Book
Manual of Book-keeping
Also, the/allowing A ustralian Yarns 9 Detective Stories, etc .
Geoffrey Hamlyn (H. Kingsley)
Eulalie (W. S. Hayward)
Lost tor Gold (Katharine King)
Botany Bay (John Lang)
Assigned to His Wife (John Lang)
Gold Hunters’ Adventures (Thomas)
A Study in Scarlet (A. 0. Doyle)
The Sian of the Four ~
Light that Failed (R. Kipling)
The Right Sort (A. Kennard)
Out of Hurly-Burly (M. Adder)
Elbow Room (M. Adder)
Moina (L. L. Lynch)
A Slender Clue (L. L. Lynch)
Crime of Xmas Toy (H. Herman)
Broken Bonds (Hawley Smart)
False Cards ~ ~
Play or Pay ~ „
WARD* LOCK & BOWDEN, Ltd* (and all Booksellers), Melbourne*
GAILY THE
TROUBADOUR.”
The troubadour has long since passed into history,
but his sweet guitar still lives in fact as well as in
memory.'
We have just received about a Dozen of the famous
ĝ
pANDANGO
Guitars.
ğ
They are remarkable for the purity and richness
of their tones, for their strength and for their low
price. A good one for 50s.—better ones up to £7 75.,
and every one guaranteed.
SPLENDID STOCK OF MUSIC
FOR
GUITAR OR MANDOLIN.
Call and Inspect our Magnificent Stock of
PIANOS and ORGANS!
The finest choice in the city, and the best for the
money. Most Liberal Terms—CASH or CREDIT.
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
quickly, my policeman dashed up, stopped me,
and made me go back, to satisfy him that I bad
not come over the fence of a back yard. Another
night I stood still with a thought —didn’t run.
He emerged from the darkness, struck a match,
peered in ray face, and said; “ How do I know
but you have got a pal in the house over yonder?”
A man like this is invaluable. I wouldn’t have
him removed on any consideration. I can keep
chickens. #
Premier Dibbs (N.S.W.) says he under-
stands, on “the highest authority,” that to form a
camp of instruction for the military forces of the
province would cost .£33,000. Quite so. Each
little corps must have its officers’ mess, and its
sergeants’ mess, and a fully equipped office for its
adjutant. Each staff-officer, too, must have his
office with table, pigeonholes, easy chair and other
paraphernalia. Compare with this Wellington
studying his maps under the lee of a dripping
hedge, or Frederick of Prussia sitting over the fire
in a charcoal-burner’s hut. What is asked for is
not a camp of instruction under conditions as
nearly as possible like those of actual war, but a
luxurious picnic. What is really wanted is a
week or two of marching and manoeuvring as if in
the presence of an enemy with baggage reduced to
a minimum, with officers sharing all the labours
of their men, and every duty carried out strictly
as if in the field.
m * •
A lady writes to The Bulletin :
You were, perhaps, justified in making fun of the
kniokerbooker costumes worn by the female participants
in the recent Maoriland wedding. It does not seem an
eminently suitable occasion for donning them, except as
an advertisement for the dress reform. But I hope that
your id< as on the subject of female dress are progressive.
Surely you would not desire women to be sacrificed
always, as they are now, on the altar of prejudice in this
matter. It would be such a benefit to the human race in
general, and to the feminine portion of it in particular,
if there were more freedom allowed in raiment.
Opponents of dress reform seem to imagine that the
advanced view is to give up skirts altogether ; or
else to force unhappy man into some form of
them, while woman prances around in trousers.
Why should women (or men either, for that matter) be
restricted to a single form of dress ? At present, the only
variety afforded in women’s dress is in the fashion of wide
or narrow sleeves, full or narrow skirts, plain or trimmed
bodices, jackets, polonaises, paniers, &c., recurring
periodically at the mandate of some distant arbiter. In-
stead of this, we should be able to adopt different modes
or forms of dress for different times, seasons, and pur-
poses. Why not use kniekerbocker suits for walking,
riding, boating, &c. ; short skirts of plain design for
housework ; Png dresses for indoor functions or dancing?
“ There are times,” as Mr. Grundy would say, when a
loose variety of flowing gown, or even the classic sheet
would be convenient. Shakespeare has shown
us that a Rosalind can be just as charming
and feminine in male as in female attire ; and
Portia acts up to her robes in the “Merchant of
Venice.” Of course, like a good many olher reforms, not
being fundamental, it must wait until radical reforms are
carried out. With social prejudices, caste, and poverty
in our midst, we must continue to endure the tyranny of
custom, in spite of the fact that fe male health is under-
mined to a lamentable degree for want of liberty in this
respect. So, in spite of the seeming incongruity of the
appearance of a bride in knickerbockers, still these people
have my heartiest thanks for their courage in braving
public prejudice. Original ryiirits expect to incur some
odium, hut many timid souls are thankful for them to
lead the wav ; and among these latter may be included—
Yours &c,, Rationale. 2nd April, 1894.
The widow of hangman Jones (who lately suicided
rather than hang a woman) was charged at a Melb. police-
court last week—drunk and riotous. The poor creature
has been trying to drown her sorrow, probably.
The wife of a well-known Southern mer-
chant lately departed from the family shrine with
a young relative of her husband, to whom the
latter had kindly given the shelter of his home.
The youthful-looking and flighty matron has
children almost as old as the Lothario, who, it is
said, in a thoughtless moment made the lady the
keeper of his finances, as he did subsequently of
his affections. The husband is, as yet, undecided
about divorce. He fears that freedom might
again tempt him into matrimony.
• * m
In Pentridge prison the other day, a con-
vict who had been severely flogged, without
uttering a groan, was let down and offered the
usual drink. He shook his head, and, pointing to
the man-flayer, said—“ I don’t want it; give it to
the fellow who’s been doing all the hard work.”
# * *
N.S.W. Department of Public Instruction
just now wears one vast, substantial smile over
some correspondence between a country teacher
and his ex-landlady, which has accidentally fallen
into the hands of the authorities. But the more
highly-flavoured of the billets-doux have been care-
fully sealed pending the appointment of an
Under-Secretary.
* * #
Mary Gaunt, who reports diseases and
lingering deaths for the ARGUS, has an idea:
“Instead of a Foundling Hospital with an ever-
open basket hanging on the gateway and no ques-
tions asked, would it not be better to enlarge the
Infant Asylum, to have an ever-open door?
Night and day there should be a responsible
officer in attendance, and instead of asking no
questions let him ask every particular, and let all
those particulars be kept secret as the grave.”
How like a woman ! She doesn’t like the idea of
missing all the spicy particulars. They would be
kept “ secret as the grave ” —by a select ladies’
committee, no doubt.
* * *
The accountant in a certain Sydney news-
paper office is a most thrifty man, and absolutely
devoted to what he considers the best interests of
his employers. T’other day one of the staff found
himself “docked.” “What for?” queried he.
“Good Friday,” murmured the man of books,
“You weren’t here Good Friday.” “Well,” said
the literary gent., “and this is a Christian
country !”
• • #
Two young women are being sent by the
Dundee Courier (Scotland) to gain information
as to the conditions under which women work in
Australia, Picture of a Melb, workroom, sent by
a Bulletin correspondent :
In one room there are some 20 girls who work from
9 a.m. until 6 p.m. with half-an-hour off for lunch. Some-
times they are kept until 10 or 11 at night, and do not get
any tea-money or over-time. They are paid so much a
week—it isn’t piece-work—and their wages range from
one who gets a pound to others at 155., 125., down to ss.
per week. Imagine a girl over twenty working like a
nigger all the week for the paltry sum of 55., and being
supposed to live on it— to pay for lodgings and buy her-
self 21 meals with 60 coppers 1 They don’t ask them to
take ss. per week. Oh, no ! When the miserable starved
wretches swarm in answer to an advt. for “improvers.”
expecting to get 10s. or 15s. per week, they are told:
"Oh! a little girl or two will be able to do all that we
require, and we could not give more than ss.and the
poor, hungry, half-fainting women take ss. per week and
starve on it or Some time ago the wife of a suburban
bank-manager was working in the room for ss. per week,
but her avowed object was to gain sufficient experience to
he able to make her own dresses.
# # •
Melb. restaurant advt. :—“ Bed and break-
fast, 9d.”
* m #
A bed, and meat breakfast, can be had at
Adelaide for (id.
mm*
How astonishingly accurate the knowledge
of Australia displayed by that gifted writer, Clark
Russell: —
“They’re long in catching Murray,” said 1. “It’s no
fault of the police. We’re not in England here. A brisk
walk takes a man into desolation. When you talk of
catching a murderer, you think of beadles and fire
engines and the electric telegraph. But the black man
is still in this country: there’s never a village pump
betwixt Woolloomooloo and the Antarctic circle. Small
wonder your bushranger flourishes."
# * #
A Melbourne Hebrew was charged, the
other day, with casually stabbing the leg of a
R. Catholic priest, whilst riding on a tram
dummy. It was represented that the accused,
who had a friend on the other side of him, sat
next to the cleric, and stuck something sharp into
his knee. Whereupon the priest asked the strange
Hebrew to apologise for making him bleed, and
the apology was duly made. Also, the priest
didn’t wish to prosecute because the alleged out-
rage occurred on Good Friday, yet the case came
into court. Having come into court it was “ dis-
missed without any evidence being called for the
defence.” Is anybody good at guessing riddles ?
* * *
Rockhampton is the headquarters of M‘ll-
- in Centralia. It is also the head-
quarters of Centralian Celestials, who have a block
of buildings almost to themselves. It also turns
out more lepers, and leper suspects, than any other
town in the North. In which matter, however,
Rockhampton takes a poetic revenge on the
Separation-hating South, for she sends all her
lepers to the southern lazaretto.
m * m
E. News “ ad.” :
Finder of umbrella in Botany tram is earnestly re-
quested to return it to its owner—poor widow with five
children. st., Botany.
That should fetch the thief. The Bulletin
would return a circus-tent if it belonged to a poor
widow with five children.
Magistrate Pan ton’s fraud-summons day
inevitably fetches up the civil servant. Sometimes
it is his milkman, sometimes his woman servant.
Here you see the man of £H a week —good, steady
20 and 30-year £8 a week, or more —trembling,
cringing, truckling, writhing in the box, like a
worm on a hook. Moral : Retrench not only with
the pruning-knife, but the axe.
# • #
In Belgium the marriage-certificate is
issued in the form of a tiny, neatly-bound book
with gilt edges. It contains, in addition to the
certificate, a summary of the marriage laws,
spaces for entering particulars regarding the birth
of 12 children, and directions for the care and
feeding of infants. There may not be much
sentiment about this, but it is practical, anyhow.
m # *
Dear Bulletin, — An interesting drunk
appeared before Melbourne City Court lately.
His speciality was a silver tube penetrating
his brisket, through which he breathed. By
reason of this mechanical contrivance, his lawyer
claimed that it was physically impossible for the
client to get drunk, as the whisky-fumes escaped
through his blow-off pipe, and never reached the
brain. If there is anything in this lawyer’s plea
for tracheotomy, you might get the medico-
plumbers to tackle “ Dipso.” An escape-valve
would possibly act where Tyson failed miserably.
—Silas Snell.
# # •
A young lady-missionary, going from
Melbourne to China, had her pocket picked of all
tier money at Spencer-street railway-station, and
couldn’t go. The finger of Providence, truly.
* •
«
Some chapels are refunding re Jabez Bal-
four. Will that Melbourne chapel refund the
.61000 received from the timber-merchant, who
died, leaving his daughters in poverty ?
Victoria has to retrench even her prisoners.
Pentridge inmates complain of bad rations ; also,
the cells are whitewashed inside—not painted, as
formerly.
Inscription on the wall of a Maoriland
pub. : “A glass of beer and a kiss for 4d.”
* * #
Shrimsld, of Maoriland Upper House,
declared lately, at Oamaru, that the baths were a
financial failure “because there were too many
Scotchmen in the town, and it was the Scotch-
man’s national failing not to wash.” But just
then a huge cateran, with reddish hair and two
vast freckled fists, arose, and the little Hebraic
gent, apologised hurriedly, and remarked that the
Scotch were a race with whom cleanliness was
almost a disease.
* * *
N.S.W. Licensed Victuallers’ Association
should set the same flinty face against the sub-
letting of private bars which democratic aldermen
are setting against sub-contracts in municipal
affairs. Nino out of ton of the girls who lease
private bars have less than housemaids’ wages at
the end of the week. The bf as-publioan’a rent-
chum trawls in all.
« « «
“ The woman shall not wear that which
pertaineth to the man, neither shall a man put on
a woman’s garment, for all that do so are an abomi-
nation unto the Lord.” — Deuteronomy, xxii., 5,
m m m
Dear Bulletin, — Be “ Spagnoletti’s ” par.,
De Freitas, of Bourke-street, has been feeding the
Melb. hungry daily for 15 years, which is a lot
more to the point than fat-voiced recommenda-
tions to “turn to God.” —M,
• • •
Dear Bulletin, A Sydney tailor’s
“ Philosophy ” for you : “ The only real pleasures
a man has are eating and drinking.” And yet the
clothes this man produces betray soul, imagina-
tion. It is ever thus. You never hear of any but
the complete ass talking about “ the pleasures of
the intellect.”—D.W.
* * *
The latest addition to the attractions of a
club dow r n South is an oil-painting which adorns
the billiard-room, and a written description where-
of would probably land someone in gaol.
# • #
Queensland J.P. ; “ Prisoner, you are
discharged for being drunk and disorderly.”
Later on: “You are found guilty of aiding and
embezzling." He meant “abetting.”
O, for the touch of the hangman’s paw,
And the sound of his vanished cough—
For a grip of the arm that served the Law
In so many a “ turning off ” !
O, for the wink of his optic bleared,
The gleam of his blood-red tbngue,
When he landed home, in a sham white beard,
With the comforting words—“ He’s ’ung” 1
A woman in widowhood’s costume groans
As she thinks of a land remote,
Where murderers hover around her Jones
And grin at his gaping throat.
Cold are the fingers that fix’t the knot
While Deeming stood on the trap.
A. woman sits drinking her grog, but not—
Ah ! not on the hangman’s lap.
LITTLE LOTTIES LEGS
jHfc /
[.BpA
AT SCHoOL ( WHfcN 1 WAS lojjits P>o>f
'YCARyS ~ ASOOT
1 Knew by, HtAivj - HfcK Coy
Each ani) Potj-y,
SHRCjCS, HtR TeAFCRO L.JAI4S
CAJCHY
3cjJtvcß,Y ojhek reA-ycß fc
36PoKt HfePC i>HApeiY C A lf•
>. ■‘ ; * - ' ■•* ■■■/
/Sow AniO 5 0 °INS HAV£ l^Fj
/ /
AriP e>°TH Havc iiFj H<jkY \
"f"Ht evfcß CHANCiirsCj HAFSO oF7lrv)fc
Has LfcNCjTHtNeo loj-pies smrt
WCRt NOJ IPTjiC wtp , I/VMdHy
Wl&ri MOW fHfc View WfcFCt CieAf\
foa THooCiH U*\BS ARC IPSJ
T° S^HT
TMfcvW / v \t/ v V R«T PCAP<
(3u| Wfl\t
N °T l2Tri£
WfcQ -
Mc.G
“What’s the row, Fogarty?
Feel a bit sore ;
Saw Father Cassidy
Near the choir door.
Lot of choir girls around
Made the thing worse ;
Were I alone with him
Wouldn’t care curse.
Lectured me fatherly
(You know his style !)
Then tried a compliment—
Missed by a mile.
Blamed my small sins; at last,
Making all nice,
Said [ would never have
Any deep vice 1”
GREG DOYLE.
M'Burney, wallis & Co.’s Report.
We held our fortnightly wool-sale to day, and, as usual,
had a large attendance of buyers, the off-season con-
sidered. For greasy, bidding was up to late rates. It
any alteration in scoured, it was slightly in buyers’
favour, consequently several lots were passed in.
Queensland clips are now arriving in Sydney, and all
consigned to our care meet with prompt attention and
are opened up and placed on the market to the best pos-
sible advantage.
Among the brands offered were the following :—BW/
New England, T. Sorrell/Bolairo, AHW/Cooraa from
Monaro, WL/Walcha from Walcha, Riverside/JNM/Duhho
from Dubbo, ON from Narandera, WHT from Nyngan,
TJ/New Engd. from Tamworth, OEM from Burrowa,
JS/N from Braidwood, C 6 from Forbes.
sth April, 1894.
With the Condemned
Victor Hugo, the genius to whom the world is
grateful for the marvellous conception of Jean
Valjean, makes one of his most thrilling and
analytical sketches on the thoughts of a con-
demned criminal. It is a wonderful thing—you
could believe after reading it that the author had
been himself the central figure of a condemned
cell. The agony of waiting—the frightful suspense
—the daily death the prisoner dies in his fear of
the one material death that is to come —all are
delineated with a terrible mad coolness. And,
after all, the death is really not what the man
fears, it is the certainty of it, the setting apart of
a day when he will cease to be, the thought that
after next Tuesday or Wednesday he will be in-
capable of thought—these are the terrors. It is
not the consummation but the preparation where-
in lies the punishment. We are all under sentence
of death, only we are respited indefinitely and we
do not know the date fixed for our execution.
Leaving aside accident and old age the extension
of the respite is in our own hands. With ordinary
care, rational living, and immediate attention to
the liver or kidney trouble or the broken nervous
system which seems so trifling at the outset, the
conservation of life to the limits of old age is
within the reach of everyone. Warner’s Safe
Remedies are of all medicines the key to longevity.
Their constituents are such that they assimilate
directly with the enfeebled system, and lead it
back from the grave to the sunlight. Mr. J. G.
Doxey, Produce Merchant, of Seymour, whose
letter we publish below, gives the experiences of
his truly serious condition and happy recovery :
“For thirty years I suffered from liver, kidney
and gravel diseases, and it would be impossible to
give even a faint idea of the misery and pain I
endured during that time. I was treated by
several of the leading doctors in Melbourne, but
not one of them could give me any hope of a
recovery. They expected my complaints to develop
into Bright’s disease. My back and loins always
seemed cold. After taking a few bottles of Safe
Cum I passed a quantity of clotted blood, after
which I had ease. I was so irritable that I could
not bear to have any one come near me or speak
to me. I continued taking the Safe Cure for
twelve months;! then felt I was quite cured.
My wife was afraid that the disease would return
and advised me to continue the medicine in half
doses for a further period, which I did. That
was about three years ago, and since then I have
not felt anything of the old trouble and now am
able to eat, drink, sleep and work with pleasure.
My friends never expected to see me alive to-day,
much less in the full enjoyment of all my bodily
powers. lam well-known in this district, having
resided here for about 25 years, and hundreds can
testify to the truth of these statements. I now
weigh a stone and a half more than before taking
the medicine.”


Prospectus.
THE
'Ernest Giles Gold Prospecting
and Exploration Co,
(To be registered under the Limited Liability
Company's Act.)
CAPITAL - £6OOO in 300 Shares of £2O each,
OB' WHICH
200 SHARES ARB NOW OFFERED FOR
SUBSCRIPTION AT *2O EACH.
The whole of the money subscribed will be devoted
to the outfit and expenses of the Exploration
Party, less the bare cost of brokerage and
printing.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
A. S. LOW, Esq., Merrylands, near Sydney.
CAPTAIN JOHN BROOMFIELD, Sydney.
W. A. WEST, Esq., M. D., Glebe, Svdney.
Hon. GEO. DAY, M.L.C., “Arleston,”Petersham
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. LAURENCE MoLACHLAN &
WILLIAMS, Sydney.
Bankers:
Union Bank op Australia, Limited, Sydney.
Brokers :
A. H. BARCLAY, 19 Post Office Chambers,
114 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FELIX RANDLE, Union Bank Chambers,
68| Pitt Street, Sydney,
THIS Company is being formed to raise a sum
of money to equip and cover the expenses
of an Exploration Party, under the command of
Mr. Ernest Giles, the well-known Australian Ex-
plorer (Gold Medallist and Fellow of the Royal
Geographical Society of London, &c.), who has
c nsented to lead the Expedition to certain gold-
bearing tracts of country in Western Australia,
already traversed by him on a previous occasion,
and he feels assured that rich auriferous deposits
abound in the country he proposes to explore.
The objects of the Company are to Prospect the
country within the Auriferous Belt, and peg out,
or otherwise acquire, all favourable discoveries on
behalf of the Company. The ground taken up
would be thoroughly tested, with the idea of
eit ier being worked by the Company, or placing
the same on the Colonial or London Markets in
separate properties.
It is estimated by Mr. Giles that it will require
a sum of about .£3OOO to properly equip the expe-
dition and cover all expenses for about 12 months,
and it is anticipated that considerably before the
expiration of that period some rich discoveries
will be made, when the balance of the subscribed
Capital could, at the discretion of the Directors,
be utilised in developing the same.
In the above estimate it must be borne in mind
that the baggage and riding camels (which will
cost some .£BOO or .£900) will be an asset of the
Company and will realise about the same amount
as they cost when finished with.
Early application is requested as over 100 shares
are already applied for.
As the whole of the money subscribed is neces-
sary for the success of the scheme, Mr. Giles has
agreed to accept the sum of £3 per week as a
nominal salary for his services, and the Company
will allot him 100 paid up Shares (which will be
divided by him amongst Members of the Party).
Each share held by a Member of the Company
will, on the payment of the above mentioned .£2O,
be deemed to be fully paid up, and shall be
without any further liability whatever.
An agreement will be drawn up by the Solicitors
between Mr. Giles and the Company, stating that
all discoveries made or Gold or other leases taken
up or acquired by any of the Exploration Party
will be the absolute property of the Company.
As it is Mr, Giles’ intention to proceed to
Western Australia immediately the Company is
formed, persons desirous of subscribing are re-
quested to do so with as little delay as possible.
Applications for shares will be received by the
Brokers, and Mr. Giles can be interviewed at
Mr. A. H. Barclay’s Offices, 19 Post Office
Chambers.
Shares will be allotted in priority of application,
and the Company will be declared formed when
150 shares are applied for.
APPLICATION FORM.
The Ernest Giles Gold Prospecting and
Exploration Company, Limited.
To the Provisional Directors,
GENTLEMEN,
I hereby apply for Shares
in the above-named COMPANY, and I enclose the
sum of £ being the amount
of £%O per share, and I hereby agree to accept same
or any less number that may he allotted me, and I
authorise you to register me as the holder of the said
Shares.
Name in full
Signature.
Address
Occupation
Date
. Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 10, 1894.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette,
♦
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25.
Construction of Wharf and approach thereto a*
Goodwood Island, Clarence River.
Erection of Courthouse, Red fern
WEDNESDAY, MAY 9.
Bridges over M’Donald River at First and Second
Crossing
Bridge, Schroeder’s Creek, road Casino to
Lismore
Construction of Trial Yard, &c., Wilcannia Gaol
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Miscellaneous.
A.. 3VtXC?I3CA.3Xr,
Theatrical Wig-maker and Hair-worker to all Sydney
theatres. Amateur Clubs Liberally Treated. Ladies’
Combings made up at 2/6 oz.
78 THE STRAND (Ist Floor), SYDNEY
Public Notice.
Thie “ ECLIPSE ”
PATENT GOLD SEPARATOR
is. t. & co..
Sole Manufacturers,
Gr oxillbum,.
PUBLIC CHALLENGE.
rPHE above are prepared to meet the John Jeroer or
any other Gold Separator in a Public Trial to test
the superiority of either machine as a practical Gold
Saver.
We claim to be able to put through any class of wash-
dirt without preparing it—no separating of stones re-
quired. We can put through One Load in 30 Minutes,
with less water than any other machine. We claim to
be able to save all the free gold. We have by far the
best all-round machine.
Before ordering elsewhere, call and inspect our
“ECLIPSE" GOLD SAVER, which can be seen at our
works, GOULBURN.
For Terms and Price, apply—
B. T. Ball & Co.,
Sole Makers, GOULBURN.
rjIHE
JOHN JERGER
Gold-saving Machine.
Orders for above received
by undersigned. “ The Poor
Man’s Friend,” to put through
400 buckets of dirt per day,
£l5 f.0.b., Sydney. Cash
to accompany each order.
JOHN JERGER, In-
ventor and Patentee,
Goulburn, New
S. Wales.
DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHAT IS x*r ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got for sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpenoe, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you ? Will you do your business at
ANTHONY H OBOE UN’S ?
SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY IS!
BUT EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
•may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived in town,
ONLY ADDRESS of the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS ;
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAY MARKET (ONLY). SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
A Sydney mis-constructed bank has decided to
close 10 of its suburban and country branches. Whole-
sale “sackings ” of bank-officials are imminent.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
For the first time in several years the Melb.
Tramway revenue is looking up. Shares have risen to
7s. 6d., and that prospective call, which has been an awe-
some Dweller on the Threshold to every shareholder,
seems to be indefinitely postponed.
» * » ♦
Joseph Schellenberg, charged with selling llakd
Oasn, has been sentenced to 10 months gaol. This Hard
Cash libel business travels on an ascending scale. Bear,
who was tried first, got seven days. Then Maonamara
and Rosa got three and six months respectively, because
Bear’s sentence hadn’t proved a “deterrent.” Now
Schellenberg gets 10 months, presumably because Rosa’s
sentence wasn’t a deterrent, and the next man, if there is
a next man, to preserve the symmetry of things, will
probably get three years and a flogging. There is one
especially lamentable aspect of the ease: the Hard Cash
people might easily have said ninety-nine hundredths of
what they were indicted for without getting into gaol at
all.
* * * *
“Chaffey Bros,, Limited,” are issuing 5 per
cent, first mortgage debentures up to £lOO,OOO, at a
minimum of 97 ; also, 6 per cent, cumulative preference
shares of £lO each up to £150,000. Apropos , the M‘ll-
wraith and Morehead Governments in the late eighties
refused to let the Chaffeys get an irrigation hold in
Queensland, remarking that what was a fat thing for out-
siders ought to be ditto for—“the Government.” By
which phrase was possibly meant the friends of the
Government, since they made no Government move in
the direction outlined by the Chaffey representative.
* * » *
Individual Melb. insolvencies for <£700,000,
£600,000, £400,000, £200,000, £lOO,OOO within about 12
months.
♦ * ♦ *
There is still money in beer. The S.A. Brewing
Co. netted £31,317 last year.
* * * *
The middleman. S.A. market quotation ;
“Wheat, sellers, 2s. 7d.” The farmers, however, only
get from Is. Bd. to Is. lid. per bushel.
* * * *
So severely have the big storekeepers in the
Vic. wheat districts been hit by the low price of wheat
that most of them decline to give any credit whatever to
farmers. Result—hundreds of men who formerly lived
on the storekeepers’ credit from seed-sowing to harvest,
are abandoning their farms.
* * » *
Justice Williams has requested the jury in the
new Speight v. Syme case to act squarely and report all
oases of at tempted “ nobbling.” To this complexion have
things come in Smellbourne.
• * * *
A Southern bank which, six years ago, ad-
vanced £33,000 on a station property, finds that the
market-value of same is now but £20,000, and that it has
to lay out £6OOO for stock, &0., before it can even let
the place.
* * * *
A recent Melb. arbitration case over £12,000
ended in claimants being awarded £3lOO, and having to
pay £2400 costs.
» * * ♦
The Q.TST. Bank has £2,409,000 of Government
money locked up for reconstruction, besides £743,000
money since entrusted to it to trade with.
* * * »
Lane Gove is going to have its co-operative
ferry. The halcyon days of privately-owned ferries
round about Sydney have departed to return no more.
• * * •
Messrs. Garland (N.S.W.) and Johnson, of
S.A., are working vigorously in the promotion of a co. to
tackle the big quartz bluffs at Bodalla (N.S.W.), which, it
would appear, prospect from SJdwts to Sfdwts. per ton.
It is believed that a couple of dwts. would give divs.
There would, practically, be no raising to pay for, as it is
believed the rock could be put through into the breakers
at lOd. per ton. In this spec, there are millions—or
nothing. There is enough dirt to feed a thousand stamps
for a hundred years.
* * * *
Wyalong threatens to become a plague-spot
such as Broken Hill was in the early days. When the
Barrier township was in its primitive state, waterless,
undrained, with no sanitary arrangements, and much
strange and dreadful whisky, it was no uncommon thing
for nine out of a dozen reckless and tolerably hard-
drinking young men to die inside of a very few months.
One party of eight, which started from Sydney, buried
seven in half-a-year, through typhoid and strange liquor,
and then the lone survivor borrowed the money to pay
his passage back, and took to the law. Wyalong, by all
reports, is going much the same way. Several thousand
men are camped close to a tank which supplies all the
drinking water of the community. Most of the refuse
soaks into the tank, and when it rains the putrid accumu-
lations get there all the sooner. Now that typhoid has
started there are all the materials for a really high-class
lazar-house at Wyalong.
* * * *
At Wyalong 15 barbers, 12 butchers, 7 bakers,
9 bootmakers and 10 storekeepers are sharing what money
is spent (i.e., brought) there.
* * * *
If they have a three weeks’ drought in Wyalong,
water will have to be carted two miles; a six
weeks’ drought, four miles. Whereas the first heavy rain
that comes will filter through the refuse of the camps into
the dam at present in use.
• * * »
The first out of three teams that brought the
battery shortly to be erected at Wyalong had nine black
poley bullocks out of a team of 12. Whether it is an omen
or not has yet to be discovered, but as it passed down the
main street it looked very much like a funeral-procession.
* * » *
A great crush, says a Bulletin correspondent,
is always to be seen at Wyalong Post-office window on
delivery of the mail, and it is noteworthy that two-thirds
of those who receive letters have to sign for them as con-
taining money—to take them away. There is a small
fortune ahead for a pawnbroker. Horses are being
hawked for 305., a saddle and bridle went for 10s., and a
Winchester rifle for 12s. 6d.
* * * *
N.S.W. Govt, geologist has gone to Wyalong,
and may be able to decide the lay of the country. At pre-
sent, the scene is one of miscellaneous surface-scratching.
A well-defined reef, traceable on the surface for two miles,
and carrying decent gold, was found, however, last week,
six miles from the main camp; and how few men were
really making anything was shown by the fact that ths
population cleared out in a body to the new rush, the
main diggings being reported “ almost deserted.”
• ♦ • *
There is a small rush to an alluvial find at
Clyde River, N.S.W. It is on private property, and 150
men have been camped on the boundary-line, wistfully
regarding the land of Goshen, and warned off by the
police. The owner has now gone up to “ make arrange-
ments ’’—for royalties, presumably. And N.S.W. Upper
House doesn’t think much of the Mining on Private Pro-
perly Bill.
* • * *
Recent N.S.W. orushings; Mitchell’s Creek,
212 tons, 186 oz. ; Sunlight, 532 tons, 185 oz. ; West Sun-
light, 360 tons, 2160 z. ; Baker’s Creek, 455 tons, CBloz. ;
Hillgrove, 242 tons, 103 oz. ; Mount Gahan, 253 tons,
84oz. ; Peak Hill, 1060 tons, 310 oz.
« • * *
At Adelong, N.S.W., there is a mine known
as (ho Henry Parkes; better still, the rich ore-shoot
worked in the Gibraltar, adjoining, makes into it. A div.
mine called Parkes would give the old boy a bigger poli-
tical lift than a dozen federation speeches.
• * * ♦
Wyalong crushings to date, under 600 oz.—a
miserable foundation on which to build a rush.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
In the recent London action, Aarons v. Trower,
arising out of transactions in Wentworth (N.S W.) gold
shares, defendant pleaded that Aarons promised to wipe
out his private account in consideration of being intro-
duced to two jobbers who would buy 15,000 Wentworth
shares. The court disbelieved the plea, and Aarons
walked off with a verdict for £2859 Bs. 4d. and costs.
♦ * * *
G. R. Fearly, who went from Sydney to Manilla
four months ago to report on some alleged rich gold-
mines for a Spanish syndicate, has returned a sadder man.
Fearly must be getting wearied of travelling longdistances
to see nothing. His previous trip was to New Caledonia,
where a Sydneyite thought he had got a wonderful
manganese mine.
* * * *
The steamship companies trading between
Sydney and Westralia struck for higher rates, last week,
and got them without the interference of any blackleg
steamers. Not satisfied with boats crowded with pas-
sengers from stem to stern, they screw another £2 from
prospectors bound for Coolgardie with none too much
money. Turn this upside down by applying it to wharf-
labourers or sailors ! and how the independent Australian
press would howl!
* * ♦ *
Reduction of wages on Zeehan and Dundas
fields, and very little work at any rate; miners are leaving
by every steamer for Westralia.
* * * *
Of 360 shareholders in a certain mining co.
(limited) 58 are found to be office-boys or clerks under
age ; 34 are platonic or other lady friends of sharebrokers;
eight grooms or coachmen; seven temporary residents
in gaol; and between 30 and 40 bankrupts, barmen,
billiard-markers, boozers, and busted boomers.
♦ ♦ * *
Denny Driscoll and William Jones, lucky Cool-
gardie prospectors, formerly of Parramatta, have been
received at Parramatta by a brass band which s renaded
them for several hours. This sort of thing may prevent
others from returning from Coolgardie ; Driscoll and Jones
go back at once.
♦ ♦ » *
Gold equal to anything in Bayley’s said to have
been found in the Premier reef, 25 miles from Coolgardie.
♦ * * *
Again it is announced rich gold struck in Cos-
grove’s, Coolgardie. Rich periodical finds without divs.
were a striking peculiarity of another Cosgrove’s—at
Broken Hill.
♦ * ♦ ♦
The Mount Lyell crowd want Tas. Govt, to
guarantee £150,000 of 5 per cent, debentures, in which
case they will build their own railway with machnn ry.
They are still packing away ore running over lOOOo'z
Yic. deficit at end of June may be
£400,000 ; Queensland, .£lOO,OOO ; Maoriland sur-
plus, £250,000.
Tobacco sent from German New Guinea to
Europe realised the highest price ever obtained.
And Australian tobacco would star abroad also,
did growers only take pains.
Hard times tell on the workman’s small
luxuries, and hundreds of smokers now make their
own tobacco, buying the cured leaf and rolling and
squeezing it for themselves. The big manu-
facturers, who pay a heavy State license fee,
naturally object; but it’s not easy to see how a
man can be punished for making tobacco merely
for his own consumption, especially when he uses
Australian leaf and helps to keep another fellow
busy growing it. If he sells, Government can
fairly come down on him for revenue ; but as long
as he paddles his own canoe exclusively the
practice seems rather commendable than other-
wise.
THEY SPORT WITH HUMAN LIFE.
I’ll give you the plain facts in the case, and you
shall help me to judge whether there was a mistake
made or not.
It seems that some time in 1889—in the winter,
no doubt —Mr. Strong, of Leicester, was taken
down with influenza, often called the grip ; and
truly a strong grip it has when it once takes a
hold. Well, lam glad to say he was able to fight
out the battle and get the best of it. But the best
wasn’t anything to brag of. The influenza hadn’t
exactly beaten Mr. Strong, but left him in a very
bad condition. And here is where yon and I
properly pick up the thread of the story.
His meals didn’t tempt him ; the most savoury
of dishes had no charms for our friend. He had
lost his appetite, and in the long run a man had
better lose his money. He forced down something,
of course, but it gave him such a pain in the chest
that he wished he hadn’t swallowed a mouthful.
Then, naturally, he got so weak and nervous he
couldn’t sleep o’ nights. This, as everybody
knows, is the straight road to the graveyard,
through the madhouse. Lots of people are making
that trip all the time. We must eat and we must
sleep. If we don’t we are done for. Neuralgic
pains, too, made matters worse for Mr. Strong.
He saw a doctor, and what did the doctor do?
This is what the patient says on that point :
“ This doctor gave me all hinds of strengthening
medicines, but none of them did me any good, and
I continued to suffer for month after month.”
Just what we might have expected. Mr. Strong
further says : “In October, 1890, my friend, Mr.
James Webster, of 28, New Walk, Leicester,
advised me to try a medicine called Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup, and I followed his advice. The
first bottle gave me great relief, and I began to
digest my food and to have an appetite ; and after
I had used three bottles I was quite another man.
I was completely cured. All my aches and pains
left me, my strength returned, and I have been
all right ever since. What astonished me was
that the Syrup cured me so quickly, and I shall
never cease thanking Mr. Webster for making it
known to me. You are at liberty to publish my
caseforthebenefit of others. Yours truly, (Signed)
W. Strong, 41, East Street, Leicester, December
30th, 1891.”
Now, was there a mistake in this matter, and
if so, what was it ? Yes, there was a common
mistake made. It is an old and seemingly hope-
less blunder.
“The doctor,” says Mr. Strong, “gave me all
kinds of strengthening medicines .”
Open wide your ears and remember what I’m
going to tell yon now ; remember it for the hour
of your own helplessness and pain; There is no
such thing as strengthening medicine, neither in the
earth nor in the waters which are under the earth.
That is the truth; all the high-class doctors know
it. As for the others, well there ! the less said
about them the better.
Mr. Strong took “strengthening medicines,”
and what happened to him? Why, he “continued
to suffer month after month.” Did you ever see
a horse made stronger and fatter by spurs and
lash-whips, leaving off the oats and hay ? I think
you have not. And that is what “ strengthening
medicines ” do, and all they do. So-called tonics
are like making a sick man walk far and fast by
kicking him at every other step.
Nothing under the sun but digested food imparts
strength ; no drug ever does.
And herein is the perpetual success and victory of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup ; it cleanses the system of
disease-poison and leaves Nature sweet and free.
The stomach then cries, “ Feed me,” and so power
and health come back like the green grass after a
shower. Do yon see? Mother Seigel proclaims
“ I destroy disease ! ” Nature responds, “ Only
do that, and I can take care of myself.”
The disease is indigestion and dyspepsia. Mr.
Strong had it and was badly treated. Should you
have it, try the Syrup first—not last, for I have
told you why. Experience.
London, March, 1892.
A GOOD STOVE.
A WORD OF CAUTION.
Everyone knows what a good stove is—at least,
the women do ; and every woman knows that, of
all the treasures of the household, a really fir.-1-
rate, reliable cooking-stove is the greatest desider-
atum in a house. A great many stoves are
advertised every year, many of which are like
jerry-built houses—thrown together to sell A
word of caution is therefore necessary to intending
buyers, because are few things so annoying
and vexatious as to buy a stove and then find that
it does not possess all the qualities that are neces-
sary to give complete and lasting satisfaction.
Now, the points in choosing a good stove are
1. Strong cast-iron frame.
2. Good draught.
3. Facilities to burn either wood, coal, or
even turf.
4. Simplicity of parts, and thus, easy to clean.
5. Duplicate parts kept in stock, so that
breakages can be replaced at small cost
and without delay.
And if, in addition to these five points, you can
get a stove that is also an ornament to the kitchen,
all the better.
Price, of course, is a point, but that is a matter
which need scarcely be mentioned, since, if the
above points are combined in any stove, it would
be cheap at any price within reason.
It only remains for us to say that, with con.
fidence, we can honestly recommend “The
Housewife,” sold by Holdsworth, Macplwrson
and Co., 250 George-street, Sydney, from ,£3 10s.
upwards, as one that fully and entirely “ fills the
bill.”
We should suggest our readers writing to this
firm for an illustrated catalogue, with further
particulars.


SUNLIGHT SOAP
J v MISSING WORD COMPETITION.
A.3ST B-VB3SrxasrC3-'S AIvXXJSEIVEEISrT FOR -yOUKra FOLKS
A
ATTRACTING
UpTICE-
brightens
fVERYTHINQ
CREATES
COMFORT
DIRT
REMOVED
eyCOURAGSS,
F
FAMOUSLY
GIVES
»t£lOH7tNS
INDICATES
JOYFULLY
knowingly
LASSE 6
M
MIRRY
‘
NOBODY
.gflNfON
PUfICHASEO
QUAUIX
R
BEST
\ s
SUBPfilSINGwJ
T
TREBLES
UNIVERSALLY
VOTED
WOMEN'S
a m
§3113«/
tsx
H±noA)
f A
ZEALOUSLY
THE DEAF AND DUMB ALPHABET
An Evening’s Amusement.
_ -
Sunlight Soap
Competitions.
200 PRIZES of Watches and Boohs, VALUE £lO4.
Young People’s Missing Word Competition
DIRECTIONS. —Find the Missing Word under each
letter of the Alphabet, beginning with E (ietters A, B, 0 D
filled in as examples). The prizes will be n , t 9 t^ oSe L^ l
find the most words corresponding to one filled in by Lev
Bros., Ltd., sealed on March Ist, and to be opened in the
presence of witnesses on September 30th.
Out off the top lin6 of twelve Sunlight
that portion containing the heading Simlight Soap Se
these and the list of names completed, on or before Septem
ber 30th, to Lever Bros., Ltd. 232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Results will he advertised in “ Sydney Morning
Herald ” and “ Daily Telegraph
First Frizes ...
Ditto
Second Frizes...
Ditto
Third Prizes ...
Fourth Prizes...
LIST OF PRIZES. , ,tt . . _
Six Beautiful Hunter Pearl Watches,
Value £4 4s. each.
Six Waltham Watches, value £4 4S.
Six Ladies Silver Watches (Girls).
Six Wanderer Watches (Boys)
76 Books, value ss. each
100 Books, value 3s. 6d. each.
iilver to the ton, have a thumping credit balance, and the
London brokers who refused to take the big end of the
mine are now ordering parcels of its scrip.
* • * •
Returns continue to droop on Bendigo —several
of the big mines have had a big fall, and some of the
small ones have dropped out of the cake-list. Bendigo 18
in for a bad time.
• * * •
Star of the East (Ballarat) diva, to date £265,200;
for the last half year only £4BOO. The lamentable falling
off in the stone is declared by the manager to have been
quite unexpected.
Charters Towers March divs., .£24,000; calls
only £3125. Mills United, 1850 tons for 1755 ozs. Bril-
liant Block, 716 tons, 1069 ozs.
The crosscut in Gympie Great Monkland, which
found gold at 1479ft.-400ft. deeper than anything pre-
viously got on Gympie—was being driven by contractors
who as E. Pope’s report cautiously puts it, “are believed
to have known of the discovery some days before the
manager”—with the usual results.^
Q. gold-yield, quarter to March 31, 127,5270 z.
a decrease on previous quarter of 23,0910 z. Charters
Towers gave 54,7070 z.; Rockhampton, 25,3660 z.; Gympie,
20,3090 z. ; Croydon, 11,0250 z.
* * * *
Recent Q. crushings ; Towers—Brilliant, 3288
tons 31530 z. ; Caledonia, 606 tons, 13450 z.; New Queen,
500 tons, 1048 oz. ; Victory, 780 tons, H7Boz. ; Day Dawn
d c 441 tons, 7070 z. ; Brilliant Central, 460 tons, 6390 z. ;
St. George, 853 tons, 5690 z.; Gold Recovery works, 523
toils 618 oz. Gympie—Phoenix Pile, 343 tons, 9800 z.,
div Is. • 7 and 8 Monkland Tribute, 343 tons, 1570 z.
‘ ♦ * * *
Sud-Est (New Guinea) natives are now just as
smart prospectors as the white diggers, and hold on to
their gold, too, until they truck it at £3 10s. an oz. The
whites used to hire the niggers at 6d. a day ; but this is
played out, and the blackfellow works for himself and
deals direct with the storekeeper.
» * * •
The Bushman’s (N.S.W.) tributors, 340 tons for
16dwts. average—a big fall from IJozs. It is said the
tributors are not a very happy family.
* * * *
A disputed will-case, heard in Sydney last
week involved the sum of £lOO. After the lawyers had
been paid, the almost imperceptible balance was claimed
as “commission.” % * ♦
North Smithfield, Gympie, got 300 oz. specimens
lust week. SArdcs about 325.
* * ♦ *
Bayley’s Reward Co. has opened its London
register and it is reported that jobbing has started.
Already’ the shares here have been dodging between 15s.
9d. and 20s.
* ♦ ♦ *
Estimated number of men at Kurnalpi, 2000;
about a-fourch on gold. Prospects still good ; food and
water more plentiful.
* * * *
The Kitanita jumping case goes back to the
warden when the United Coolgardie syndicate, the
registered owners, will be afforded a chance of proving
their bona-fides.
The new manager of Bayley’s Reward resigns
his charge of the abortive Round Hill silver mine to take
ur) the billet. Heavens! what a change of scene.
* * • •
In Coolgardie, building sites now fetch as high
as £9 a foot frontage. A few months more and the
end of the great Hampton Plains swindlecate estate, just
a mile away, may easily fetch 20s. a foot. And the
sVmdykit bought that land a few months ago from
Government at 2s. 6d. an acre.
* • * *
The recent rise in Mount Lyells was mainly due
to large orders from English buyers, although the pros-
pect of generous support from the Tasmanian Government
is very hopeful. * ♦ »
The Times advises promoters of W. A. mines to
ask only for working capital. Advice which is bound to
be followed—when it is impossible to get cash.
* * *, *
Owing it is said, to the unexpected rush of
applications it hag been resolved to close the share-list of
the Woggonora Building Society’s property distribution
on May 25 a month earlier than originally intended. The
prizes consist of 60,000 acres of good land in the imme-
diate vicinity of Cunnamulla (Q.), 20,000 sheep, and all
the necessary buildings, dams, fences, tanks, and other
appurtenances of three excellent grazing farms. The
first prize is valued at £6500 ; the second at £5500 ; and
the third at £4500. Also, there are 171 smaller prizes
and the winner of any one of these has the option of
selling his prize back to the society for 90 per cent, of its
nominal value in cash. This is a substantial guarantee
that the values are in no way inflated. Further particulars
in our advertising columns.
• • •
The Jerger gold-saving machine appears to be
making its wav. What is claimed for it is that it is cheap
—the price is only £l5, delivered at Sydney-and port-
able that it can tackle almost any kind of wash, that it
puts through 400 buckets daily with a small amount of
water, and that it comes nearer to the ideal gold-saver—
the machine which allows nothing whatever to escape it—
than any other yet invented. And if it approaches any-
where within gunshot of the maker’s expectations in these
respects it will be a boon such as has never before come in
the way of the digger.
The New York Spectator., a financial
paper of high repute and long standing, publishes
a summary of the business of the great life offices
of the United States for 1893. Its tables are a
brilliant advertisement for the great New York
Life Insurance Co. Taking the three largest
offices, the Mutual has assets amounting to
184,930,000 dollars; the Equitable owns 164,701,000
dollars; and the New York Life 148,<00,000
dollars; but while the State Insurance Depart-
ment made considerable deductions from the
figures of the first two —no less than 4j millions of
the Equitable’s assets being of a kind which the
department refused to recognise—the New York
Go.’s assets were passed by the State auditor
as absolutely correct. The New York Life
Co. shows a surplus of 17,000,000 dollars over
all liabilities, against the Mutual’s surplus of
only 16,000,000 dollars on a considerably larger
business. The New York Co. lost much less than
half as much business by surrenders as did the
Mutual, and a shade more than half the amount
lost by the Equitable, thus showing that its con-
nection is of a stable character, and its policy-
holders have confidence in it and have come to j
stay. The New York Life issued new policies, in
1893, to the amount of nearly 224,000,000 dollars,
being nearly forty millions more than either of
its rivals. In 1893, the New York Co.’s new
insurance was 53,000,000 dollars more than its
new business for 1892; that of the Mutual
not quite 42,000,000 dollars more ; and
that of the Equitable not quite ha(f*a-million
dollars more. The New York Oo.’s premium
income from its new business for 1893
was 1,682,698 dollars more than that of the
previous year; while the Mutual’s was only
421,415 dollars more, and the Equitable’s 41,387
dollars more. The New York Co. had also by far
the largest increase of insurance in force, but while
it stood at the top in all these respects, in the
matter of increased expenses it stands at the very
bottom. With all its immense expansion of busi-
ness its expenses for the year were only 677,000
dollars more than those of 1892, while the Equit-
able’s expenses rose by 699,000 dollars, and those
of the Mutual by over two million dollars. These
are points which all insurers should look at. The
office which loses least by surrenders, and does
the largest new business at the smallest expense
has a great deal to recommend it.
No. 6 of the Albury Missing-word Com-
petitions closes next Saturday, April 14. Particu-
lars on advt. page.
In the way of concentrated nourishment
there is nothing on this earth which is quite so
concentrated as Bovril. It is condensed bull it
is ox in the smallest imaginable compass—the
strongest and most abbreviated form of beef on
record —and it represents all the benefits and ad-
vantages of the he-cow in the narrowest possible
space. Bovril, made into a drink after the man-
ner of beef-tea, is a combination of food and
medicine, and it can also be used instead of butter
or as an adjunct thereto, instead of the tasteless,
antediluvian sandwich. Also, it can be employed
in making soup, gravy, or, in fact, anything
wherein the ordinary ox is a customary ingredient.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE OFFICES, HUNTER, BLIGH AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
The proprietors guarantee it to be fifty times more I
nourishing than any other preparation of meat,
and it looks like it. |
St. Stead in January Review recommends
Dumas’ “ Three Musketeers ” as a suitable gift-
book for boys ! It is interesting to find the
intrigues of D’Artagnan and Milady (also Milady s
maid) endorsed by such authority.
David Jones and Co., the well-known
drapers of George-street, Sydney, have resolved
to cater energetically for the rampant footballer
during the 1894 season. The footballer s great
desire is to wear the loudest club costume on
earth, and the firm keeps 29 different kinds of
costume in stock to suit 29 different varieties of
footballer. Any football costume which isn t kept
in stock will be supplied in any quantity, and in
colours that are calculated to make the bird ot
paradise fall down dead, inside of 14 days. All
other kinds of drapery belonging to that game
which consists in the breathless pursuit of blown
leather are also on hand, also all drapery apper-
taining to every other kind of game ; and the calf -
and-breastbone brigade in general is cordially
invited to o»U.
In these days of depression one naturally
looks for an investment that requires but little
capital, with a prospect of acquiring a handsome
return. There are few opportunities, however,
for those with limited means to become possessed
of a good sheep-station, with house and valuable
improvements, besides 6000or7000first-class young
sheep from which to derive a really good yearly in-
come. This opportunity is now offered for .£1 by
investing it in a share in the Woggonora Building
Society, as the shareholders intend dividing
amongst themselves three grazing farms of 20,000
acres each, together with 20,000 sheep and J635C0
worth of freehold property in 171 lots, which is
readily saleable at 90 per cent, of its stated value.
The distribution is to take place next month, so
now’s the time to chance £1 in a society conducted
under Queensland Government supervision.*
A Sydney firm is printing the Gospel of
St. Mark in two New Guinea dialects. The words
are simply spelled phonetically, the vowels re-
ceiving the Italian sound. It looks one of the
ugliest languages ever set in type.
Last year’s financial crisis has perhaps
more than anything else brought the life offices
of these colonies prominently before the public.
The manner in which they have stood by their
policyholders merits all commendation, in the
van stood that sterling little Sydney institution,
The City Mutual Life, which, during the past hve
years, has by the application of energy ana
economy, assisted by more than the average busi-
ness ability, steadily emerged from obscurity
into the front rank. Mr. Crowley seized the
opportunity to notify his policyholders that
those of them affected by the then prevailing
suspensions could on application have the grace
on their policies extended without charge, and the
act, trifling as it was, bore fruit a thousand-told.
The City Mutual did not hesitate either to put.
its hand pretty deeply into its pocket to assist its
needy policyholders in a practical way, and the
1 crowning act was the intimation, some six month
ago, through every paper in the colony, that any
member who had paid three years premiums
could obtain a fully-paid policy equal to the whole
amount of premiums paid with compound interest
added. Such treatment goes far to justify the
rather ambitious title which Mr. Crowley has
patented for his office—the most liberal and pro-
gressive Life office in Australia. The Society
removed into its handsome new building—of
which we give a picture—at the intersection
of Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh Streets in
January last.*
Cabled that 100,000 negroes are to leave
the States for Liberia, West Africa—“ going
home.” The Queensland nig. goes “home’ one
by one, with a kick, a curse, and a shovelful of
earth atop—but he gets there just the same
Mr. Leopold Yates, erstwhile P.M. at
Yass, N.S.W., and afterwards at Sydney, is now
a very great swell indeed at Nice, and a regular
habitue of the card-tables at the Oercle de la
Mediterranee.
A Bulletin correspondent puts another
face on Parkes’ Westralian welcome “ The
crowd only came to see him because he has been
so well advertised in The Bulletin. The impres-
sion prevails that he doesn’t deserve the advertise-
ment. We all admired him—till we heard him
talk.”
Q. capitalistic journals do their best to
account for the Ipswich election. One says the
railway-workshop men were enraged at retrench-
ment; another that Stephenson’s party squabbled.
But the worst excuse of all is that which says the
Ipswich Fat Man only reaps what he has sown,
since he so consistently damned MTlwraith in
’BB, before the coalition, that the voters have
neyer forgotten it. The curses of the Barlow-
Stephenson crowd, in fact, have come home to
roost. All this is delightful Sunday reading for
Wilkinson, M.P., and the Labour-party.


AND RESIDENCE (SUPERIOR).
“ COTS WOLD, 9 ’
58 YOUNG ST II 111 MT, SYDNEY
(next door Hotel Metropole).
THREE BALCONIES (fronting Large, Open Square).
'—LATE IUV.MIKS
Bath, Piano, Kay, and every Home Comfort.
Only a limited number of Boarders of good social standing*
Vacancies for Two or Three more.
Terms: ... From 255. to £4 4s.
A. W. L*S ~
HYDRAULIC ENGINEER.
Surveys and Estimates on Irrigation Works a Speciality
• MULGOA, N.S.W.
FANCY BALLS, Amateur Theatricals, &c.
Character Wigs on HIRE.
A. MICHAN, Theatrical Wig-maker,
78 The Strand (Ist Floor), Sydney, Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon.
NEW PUBLICATIONS. ’
“ Tales of the Early Days . 99
By PRICE WARUNG.
Bound in Boards, 2 /i ; Cloth, 2/10, post paid.
“BULLETIN” OFFICE, SYDNEY.
LADIES!!!
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
29 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
DR. SPEER
Female Pills for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s. per box,
guaranteed O.K.
D
EAF NESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and Perfect Hearing Restored.
Uouiloiuvble to wear and invisible. Illustrated
book of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps.
A. U. HAST, 49 ELIZABETH ST., MELB.
Australian Mutual ~ "™"»
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established JtOY 11 ) Jli,N L feOCyllll 1Y •
1 1 Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
“'wALKRIf l T Cl^ irnla " ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ; J. T.
Esq JP L . | I 1?TM« S p LIII n BJO f t M’ fcsq * : BENJAMIN SHOUT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS,
l-.J.i.. IcOBI. J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary; RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annuae Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
T . oac-u «rvd? T C D UMUIjATIfiI> FuNDS - - Over Eleven Millions sterling
BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over
One Million sterling.
HeataL Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
DURABILITY and ECONOMY I
The Celebrated “Orient” Clothing'
Gives UNIVERSAL SATISFACTION, and is UNEQUALLED
For Fit, style and Wear.
All Garments are CUT from the Best Models, and the Materials are Thoroughly Shrunk.
The ORIENT Clothing is in all Textures, and suitable for Office, Bush, Town, Riding, Walking,
1 ravelling. The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being MADE
TO ORDER.
Tirst Quality Men’s Suits ... ... 40s
Extra „ „ ... ... 45s
Special „ „ ... ... 50s
VST VALUE UNRIVALLED.
PATTERNS POST FREE ON APPLICATION. INSPECTION INVITED.
David. Jones & Company
ORIENT CLOTHIERS,
Opposite 6 r.P.0.f George Street, Sydney,
O, King i * *
LIVE FOR EVER!
ġ
h
Was the salute tendered to King Solomon by his people.
Nevertheless Solomon the Wise died at a comparatively
early age, because he did not know how to care for that
most important organ of the human body, the liver, which
has justly been considered the great centre of life’s
machinery. In it is stored the nutriments absorbed
during digestion, which is gradually given out into the
blood to keep up the vigor of the human organism. When
the Liver ceases to do its work the head is heavy, thoughts
come slowly, the tongue is dirty, mouth tastes foul, appetite
is poor; sleep is disturbed, bile circulates in the blood,
causing a yellow tinge in the skin and eruptions, fits of
coughing, slimy expectorations, and pains in the right side.
If this condition is not checked, the consequences will be
serious to the sufferer. The best and never-failing remedy is
Fuss’s
Liver Restorative
Constipation Cure
It is a Certain Remedy for all Disorders of the Liver and Kidneys,
Impaired Appetite, Flatulency, Sour Eructations, and Bilious Headache.
and cures Piles and Constipation permanently by continued use
Indigestion,
It relieves
will find it an invaluable home remedy, it being an efficacious aperient
of pleasant aromatic taste, neither nauseating nor griping. In its results
against the over indulgence in food or liquor its effects are marvellous. A
few doses prevent sea-sickness.
The Unprecedented Success FUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND
CONSTIPATION CURE has met with has induced the inventor to
offer the refund of the price, 2s. 6d., if the medicine fails to cure or
relieve the ailments he recommends it for.
Sold Everywhere.
LADIES
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
\Ls
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 13/6 each ; Plainer Finish,
7/6 each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Atvarded FIRST FRIZE by Royal Agri-
cultural Society,
•W. J no. Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter-st.,
Sydney
%9
THE GREAT
Scandinavian Remedy
—FOR—
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Chest and Pulmonary
Complaints, Nervous Exhaustion, Rheumatism,
Gout, Chalky Gout, Sciatica, lumbago, Neuralgia,
Bright’s Disease, Kidney and liver Disorders,
British Cholera, and all Blood and Skin Diseases,
Thespian Institute, 168 Bay-street, Glebe, Nov. 22, ’93.
Professor Thulinius.— My Dear Sir,—l feel I should be want-
ing- in duty, did I neglect the opportunity of sending you my
testimony as to the wondrous efficacy of your rheumatic
specific. For the past ten years 1 have been a complete
martyr to rheumatism in all its forms. I have tried doctors
. . . . with a view of effecting a cure for this most trying
disease I am well-known, and scores can testify
that at best I could only crawl about with difficulty. . .
After leaving Little Bay Hospital at the close of last year I
was persuaded to try a bottle of your " Thulinius," and in a
week or so afterwards I could get about fairly well. Upon
again suffering a relapse last February, I took another bottle,
with an equally successful result; but at last I determined to
go through a course of treatment, and I have just completed
my fourth bottle, with the gratifying knowledge that I am
quite free from pain, can walk any reasonable distance with-
out fatigue, have an excellent appetite, and feel myself again
competent to re-enter my profession, added to which my oft-
repeated attacks of pleurisy have become a thing of the past.
I have not dieted myself in any way, so all the credit is due to
your wonderful remedy, under Providence, that my blood is
becoming purer daily, and its effect upon my liver and kid-
neys most pronounced. ... I shall only be too glad
personally to convince fellow-sufferers of the benefits to be
derived from a course of your treatment, as exemplified in
my own case, after ten years’ martyrdom.—l remain, yours
faithfully, VV. H. NEWTON NEWMAN (Teacher of Elocution
and twenty-five years Actor and Manager),
[The Rev. J.D. Langley, St. Philip’s Parsonage, and Mr. H. H.
Lusk, Barrister-at-Law, can testify as to the crippled state of
Mr. Newman prior to his taking “ Thulinius.”]
„v
r*
V>
>-
LIJ
>
<
o£_
Lu
o o
I
Depot: 15 VICTORIA ARCADE, entrance from Elizabeth-street (near King-street) and Castlereach-
street, opposite “ The Australia Hotel, SYDNEY. BOX 1405 G.P.O. “ ' reagn
Write for Pamphlets and particulars of successfully treated cases.’
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the years you’ve lived. Weak men cured.
Treatise on Manhood Free. Write. Prof. HERMANN,
French Specialist, 41 Collins Place East, MELB.
Oriental Female Pills.
Triple power. Restores regularity without fail, no matter
what cause. Sure and safe. Large Box, posted 5s
ORIENTAL VIGOUR PILLS for MEN. Large Box ss.
Write W. W. Garfield, 323 West Coilins-st., Melbourne.
J u liquidation.
VICXUHESQUE ATLAS PUBLISHING CO.,
Limited.
88 CARRINGTON STREET, WYNYARD
SQUARE, SIDNEY.
TENDERS are invited and will be received by
the undersigned up to noon of TUESDAY, the
first day of May next, for the Purchase of the
undermentioned Assets :
PICTURESQUE ATLAS of AUSTRALASIA.
LOT
!• Sheets, Parts, and Volumes, and
Round Maps, at published
prices ,£3B, (158 8 4
Drawings, Photographs, Ori-
ginal Maps, Engraved
Wood Blocks, Electrotypes
and Materials, at cost ... 45,787 17 2
There are on hand Undelivered
Orders for the work and for
bindings, from the various
colonies of Australasia,
amounting to .£176,737 19s.
•Copyright.
* Subject to the right of
the purchaser of “Austra-
lasia Illustrated ” to use
those portions of the “ Pic-
turesque Atlas of Austra-
lasia’’which are incorpor-
ated in “Australasia Illus-
trated.’’
AUSTRALASIA ILLUSTRATED.
2. Sheets, Parts and Volumes, at
published prices 88,756 7 5
Electrotypes and Materials, at
cost 1751 610
* Copyright,
* Subject to the right of
the purchaser of “Pictur-
esque Atlas of Australasia”
in those portions of “ Aus-
tralasia Illustrated ” which
have been reproduced from
the former work.
PLANT.
3. Engraving Department 86 7 1
4. Composing and Machining De-
partments ~ 3998 0 11
5. Electrotyping Department ... 744 7 3
6. Bindery 1892 12 7
7. Miscellaneous 383 7 10
8. Educational Works and Books
of Reference 233 6 1
DEBTS DUE TO THE COMPANY,
Open Accounts, Judgments, and on Promissory
Notes, viz. :
9. New South Wales
10. Victoria
11. Queensland
12. New Zealand
13. South Australia
14. Tasmania
15. Western Australia
22,560 13 3
23,393 5 3
2812 0 0
1253 7 0
1771 15 6
259 12 0
166 11 9
Tenders will be received for each lot separately,
or for the whole in one lot.
The usual 10 per cent, deposit conditions.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
The stock values, amounts of judgments, amounts
alleged to be due under any promissory notes, and
the amounts alleged to be due for book debts, are
to be taken in all respects at the sole risk of the
purchaser, and the liquidators (the vendors) do
not in any way guarantee the alleged values of
the said stock, the existence or correctness
of the judgments, promissory notes, and out-
standing accounts, or the amounts thereof
as mentioned or appearing in the books or
lists exhibited to the purchaser, or that such
judgments, promissory notes, and book debts
have not been settled either by payment or contra
account or otherwise, or that the alleged debtors
have no set-off against the same, and no allowance
shall be claimed by the purchaser in these respects.
Stock-sheets and List of Debts may be in-
spected, and all particulars, together with form of
tender, may be obtained at the offices of the Com-
pany, 38 Carrington-street, Wynyard-square.
W. R. GULLICK
A. R. TROUP
Svrtney, 9th March, 1894.
Liquidators.
■
<<
w-
m/m
TESTIMONIALS
; Like the following are constantly arriving
'from all farts 0/ the -world and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualitiespossessed by Dr.Pierce’a
Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
’BELT. Read the letters:
From Australia.
Mb. W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows;
,“To W. H. Soul & (Jo., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebeltassoon as it is placed on his body, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and!
thank you very much. 1 have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” „
From America.
Mb. J. W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes—“ Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. X fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got up as if nothing had happened, the back
troubled me ever since until I tried your belt. For one year
now I have felt as I used to at 20,"
tc3r Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts.
Call, or write for free descriptive ‘‘Pamphlet No. 2,” and
please mention this paper wh on you address: W. H. Soul & Co.,
158 Pitt St., Sydney; Elliott Bros., Brisbane ; or, the
prac-netic Elastic Truss Co., San Francisco, U.S. A.
IS2
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorea, &c., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by J. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
JNTEN MINUTES, m 2.
H
AY MAN S
tAL'SAM
7 of horehoun p. j
A SAFE AND SFEKDV KKiIEDY lOU
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS, &C.
u lnvaluable for Bad Coughs and Colds."
Mrs. Eason, Sleaford.
Sold by all Chemists In bottles at Is. lid., and 2s. 9(1.
In the back-blocks of Bananaland, two
stockmen were riding along a bush-track, some
years Said one to the other, as he leisurely
cut a pipe of tobacco, “ I can back my horse to
find every stump there is and stumble over it.
See that little stump ahead, not six inches out of
the ground? I’ll bet he trips over it.” The
stump was not quite directly ahead, but the horse
stumbled over it, all the same, and his rider,
whose hands were engaged with his tobacco and
knife, was pitched out of the saddle and broke his
neck.
While the smellful Chinaman and the per-
functory supervision of lepers usual to Australia
continue to exist, the mortality from leprosy must
Articles miles long have been written by
speculative medical men proving to the writers’
own satisfaction that leprosy is possible by inocu-
lation, and, on the other hand, that it isn’t, but
few practicable remedies have been suggested.
One of these few, judging by the testimonials
received, is that advanced by the Orange Butter Co.
1 he co. is the sole Australasian agent for a blood
and skin medicine compounded by Dr. Koch, of
consumption-cure celebrity, which is claimed to
have a direct influence on those diseases to which
it is especially applicable. The medical fraternity
say that leprosy is not curable, the agents of Dr.
Koch’s remedy assert positively that it is.
Elsewhere in this issue is advertised the
financial statement of the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York for the year 1893. There
are ® good many big commercial institutions in
the States but this is the biggest. At the close of
last year its assets reached the useful sum of
£38,338,332 13s. 7d. sterling. This would be a
considerable fund even if the 7d. were missing.
Having set apart <£34,651,965 6s. lid. to meet
policies as they fall in, and other liabilities, the
managers find themselves the happy possessors of
a surplus of .£3,686,367 6s. Bd. which stands
as profits for distribution. This is alarger surplus
by <£571,740 4s. lOd. than was held at the
end of the previous year, and sets a good example
in the way of surpluses to Colonial Treasurers.
The Company’s_ income for 1893 was .£8,614,609
19s. 5d., and its disbursements, for the same
period, <£6,236,147 16s. 4d. Insurances and
annuities assumed and renewed, rejecting all un-
completed transactions, mount up to .£145,522,084
13s. Bd. I igures like these are startling results of
half a century s development on lines purely co-
operative and mutual, not a penny of capital
being planked at the start outside of premiums
paid. But then the managers of the concern have
never disputed or quarrelled. They have just run
the business in a sensible, capable fashion.
THE JOHN JERGER GOLD-SAVING
MACHINE.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Linigar, of Harden, in the colony of
New South Wales, hereby solemnly and sincerely
declare as follows That I placed in the John
Jerger Gold-saving Machine three pennyweights
of fine gold in one dish of washdirt, and after
working the machine for about three minutes
recovered the whole of the gold. This test was
made in the presence of two experienced miners
(Mr. Atkinson and Mr. Siggs) and several other
persons interested in mining. 1 make this declara-
tion unsolicited and simply in the interests of the
public generally, believing that the machine will
prove of inestimable benefit to the colonies of
Australasia.
William Linigar.
Subscribed and declared at Goulburn this 29th
day of March, 1894, before me—Wm. Carson,
J.
PEU DE CHOSE.
La vie est vaine;
Uu peu d’amour,
Un peu de liaise , . ,
Et puis—bonjour !
La vie est brfeve:
Uu peu d’espoir,
Uu peu de reve . . ,
Et puis -bousoir!
Hokianga (M.L.j possesses an artful Maori,
who engaged to work off at sheep-shearing an old
debt he owed a fanner. Honi went out on strike
early in the day, and, when asked why, replied
that he was hungry, and “an empty sack could
nut stand whereupon the farmer invited him to
dinner. The Maori’s capacities were big, but he
evidently got supplied, for, on his return to the
shed, the farmer asked him why he was standing
up, and not shearing ? Replied Honi: “You fill a
sack with potatoes, and how can you expect it to
bend ?”
LXOS MOXTENAEREF.


FINNEY, ISLES Si CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
WK BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
maintain the system of selling every tiling at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
UEIMItTMENTS s
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ilibbons, Laces, Ladies' Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing Drapery, Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro-plate, Men's Ready-made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
{3fF" LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept)
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited.
We issue a little book on “ Shopping by Post,” which is
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
Send your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
and will be as well served as if in town to select.
Finney, Isles & Co.,
BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, Q.,
And 64 Basinghaw, Street, London, E.G.
WA
% S'
FOR COLDS,
COUCHS,
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL
Throat and Lung
DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
for children, an ever-ready remedy to be
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough, influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each of our bottles.
ĥ
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists d Stores.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
O'
BUTTER - SCOTCH
TH f CELEBRA TED ch.ldren’s sweet)
Vancet.
St. John’s Works, Loudon, W.C.
]l>T£N!
<«pmcC
Tine
For
-rf U T t
or twin cl
WaTerbqkY
Nervousness Cured!
SEND to HERR RASSMUSSEN, 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or any of hia Inter-
colonial Branches, for his Free and Useful Pamphlet, entitled
“A. Thousand Reasons"
Why Sufferers should immediately take
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Altali.Mi Vitality Pills!
Which are Registered and Purely Herbal. Cured many Thousands.
A GUARANTEED CURE for the most obstinate NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF MEMORY,
DESPONDENCY. MELANCHOLIA, NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA and IRRITABILITY, WEAK-
NESS, and all Affections peculiar to the NERVES, SPINE and BRAIN. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/-and 12/-, posted.
SITJICTIDIRIEID
THOTISAINTID TESTIMOUIALS I
Blood Diseases Cured I
ALFALINE LOCK CURE PILLS.
Registered. Purely Herbal. Cured over 100,000.
A GUARANTEED CURE for all kinds of BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES
U' t> r\ vt a at ~\t e » nau nr Tv_aT< a HT.nrvn fIfIMPT, A 1 NTS BLOTCHES, PIMPLES,
FROM ANY CAUSE, OLD-STANDING BLOOD COMPLAINTS
ECZEMA, and other unhappy and unpleasant symptoms of the Skin and Blood,
posted, 23/6 ; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Ordinary course,
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”—Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”—North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.” —N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassinussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the hona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S. A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
Courier, Q.
WHAT IS BETTER THAN
.£1,000,000 ?
HEALTH!
You are always Poor
without Health, even if you are
Wealthy.
How did over 100,000 Sufferers
get Restored to
HEALTH ?
By taking
HERR, RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press is unanimous in praising up Herr
Jtassrnussen and. his wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies,
and his name has become a much-cherished and lasting
household word in every city, village and camp in the colonies.
■ . ■
i
The wonderful success of Herr Rasstnussen, an d the ever-
increasing patronage extended to his celebrated' Herbal
Remedies by all classes of society, is bona-fide evidence that
they are effective and genuine.
HERE EASSMTJSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 G-EORGrE STREET, SYD3NTBY.
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered
ALFALINE REMEDIES!
Which have CURED OYER One Hundred Thousand Sufferers for Blood and Nerve Diseases.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of the Academic Parisienne des Inventeurs, Prance.
Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the i.U.J.h.O.
Honourably Mentioned in “Centennial History of New South Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney, Bronze Medal, Melbourne, for his Herbal Remedies.
A.ntlior of “ The 3XTa.-fcxi.ra-l Doctor.”
HERBAL REMEDIES:
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Ordinary course, 23/6, posted ; Special Powerful
Double Course, 43/6 ; smaller boxes, 0/- and 12/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Allaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to eradicate Dandruff. Produces quickly
luxuriant hair. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautiiier.
Beautifies the Complexion. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes,
posted, 1,6 and 2,6.
Alla line Loc k Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Blood. Purely Herbal,
Ordinary course, posted, 23/6; special powerful course,
43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Alfaliue Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
Alfaliue Internal Pile Powders.
Excellent for internal use. Posted, 3/- and 6/-
Alfallne External Pile Powders.
Cure both Blind and Bleeding Piles. Posted, 3/- &6/
Alfaliue Leucorrhoea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaliue External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
Porous Plasters.
Believe pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Male and Female Syringes, Suspenders, and
other Specialties, kept in stock.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
IMPORTANT.—Make Cheques and Post Office Orders Payable to Hans Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Head Office, or to any of Ins Branches. Register Letters containing Money. All
Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover. All Correspondence strictly Confidential.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Chief Laboratory and Head Depot for all the Colonies:
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
NEW ZEALAND HEAD DEPOT : 91 Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON.
Modern Dentistry.
Artificial teeth are almost as old as civilisation
itself. Possibly they are quite as old and were
themselves the beginning of civilisation. The
teeth have always been the weakest point in the
human anatomy, and probably those of primeval
man were no better than those of his remote
descendants. Therefore, as the winter of his dis-
content came upon him, and his years were many
in the land, he became a haggard and gummy
savage presenting a toothless front to the
storms of adversity. When he passed from
this state of primitive barbarism the first
thing he did was to make teeth. No one
knows when he made his first experiments
in this direction, but artificial teeth have been
found among the dust of the oldest Pharaohs who
lie beneath forgotten pyramids beside the waters
of the Nile, and probably enough that very, very
ancient monarch who smiled upon Joseph, smiled
with a complete set of bought teeth not so very
much unlike those of the present day. There were
shop teeth also among the Tyrians, Carthaginians,
Sidonians, and other nations without number, and
the art of making them flourished till the fall of
the Byzantine empire. Then it was lost amid the
general wreck like innumerable other arts, and
man became again, in his latter years, the same
toothless ruin as before. A solemn and portentous
being was mediaeval man, as he mumbled abjectly
on his way to a grave which closed over him
prematurely because of the indigestion which he
acquired through bolting his food in the Dark
Ages. The resurrection of dentistry within recent
times has added many years to the average dura-
tion of life. But it has been resurrected on a
new and entirely different plan. The artificial
teeth which are made to-day are not so very much
unlike those that were manufactured in the days
of Raineses the Great, but whereas the latter cost
a king’s ransom, even in the days when kings
were worth ransoming, the latter are within the
reach of everybody, and even the poorest need not
be without them. They have grown cheaper and
better, year after year, until at last the London
Dental Institute (of 98 King-street, Sydney), can
supply an excellent and durable set for 21s.
and single teeth from 2s. 6d. upwards. These are
probably the very lowest prices upon record, and
even at these figures a guarantee for five years is
given. The processes are entirely painless, and
the work is quite as beautiful as the best original
product of nature. Also, it has many advan-
tages which the product of nature never possessed.
There is no toothache, no decay, no hollow
places, none of the general misery which attaches
to the teeth which were made by a far seeing Pro-
vidence. There are no casual monstrosities in the
way of odd fangs which stand up above the rest like
solitary peaks in a desert. They are a good colour,
while the natural teeth, as often as not, are yellow
or of miscellaneous hues. And, as already men-
tioned, the London Dental Institute guarantees
them for five years, which neither Nature nor any
other dentist will do. This firm has establish-
ments in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, and Bris-
bane, and is working a revolution in all four
capitals.
A Scotch paper, the Glasgow Herald,
publishes a yarn about the finding somewhere on
the Thompson (Q.) of a man who had died of
thirst. One of the deceased’s bony hands clutched
a Bible, the other a photograph of Gladstone.
The story seems painfully familiar somehow,
barring the photo, of Gladstone. It used to be
the portrait of Queen Victoria.
Dear Bulletin, — “Extremes meet” —in
mateship as in marriage. I remember a curious
instance of the David and Jonathan business in
the “good old days” at Stawell (Vic.). Jim
M , a “Geordie” —a magnificent six-foot of
manhood, slow and heavy of speech—a ruminating
animal, and Tom G , a “ Cousin Jack ” (un-
usual match)—five-foot nothing, and as mercurial
as a monkey—-were mates. They worked together
on sinking contracts, drank together, and cursed
and swore at each other most amicably. They
had a contract to sink a shaft a second hundred
feet. The price was good, a new “ whip ” erected,
the horse staunch, and the boy driver about as
cheeky as you make ’em. One day the mates had
just finished drilling, and had knocked for the
rope to be sent down. The boy led his horse down
the whip track, but in turning the horse, managed
to let go the heavy hook at the rope end, and down
the shaft rattled the whole concern, Warned by
the row, the big fellow, ostrich-like, hid his head
in the nearest corner of the shaft—while “ Cousin,”
with one agile spring, got underneath him. The
iron hook luckily landed without touching Jim
M , the wily Thomas it didn’t reach. In
their cups, Jim would often reproach the “little
’un ” that he didn’t care if he (Jim) was killed,
so that his own carcase was safe. “Goeston,
booye,” “Cousin” would retort, “thickey wur
brains agen blubber—what praichers call th’
triumph of Mind over Matter.” — “The Palmer. V
We are informed that the directors of the
A.M.P. Society have recently had under considera-
tion the rate of interest charged to members of the
society on loans on security of their policies.
Hitherto the rate has been 7 per cent., which does
not seem excessive considering the terms under
which such advances have been made. Loans
have been granted from upwards without any
legal or other expenses, and permission has. been
given to repay either in whole or by instalments, at
any time at the option of the borrower. It has
been felt, however, that in cases where members
were entitled to borrow large sums a lower
rate might be conceded, provided the loans were
taken for a fixed term and subject to the usual
conditions of mortgages on real estate, and it was
therefore resolved to grant sums of =£2oo or more
for a period of not less than two years at the lower
rate of 6 per cent, provided more than 75 per cent,
of the value of the policy were not required—the
interest in such cases to be paid quarterly. It
still remains optional, hpwever, with members to
borrow to the higher limit of 90 per cent, of the
value, and retain the privilege of paying off at any
time, either by instalments or in whole should they
prefer to do so, at. the old rate of 7 per cent.


win
■
M-BUENBY, WALLIS & Co.
M'HVJiKWY
8. WALLIS
C. LMANKS
J. ML AJJ
15 to 20 years with the late Firm ql
MOHT & 00., and GOLDS
BROUGH, MOBT & 00. (Ltd-).
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY,
Litoeral Cash. Advances if required..
PECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Each Department managed. by a member of tbe
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALT. EXPENSES COVERED BY A
Wool Warehouses : Margaret Street. Produce Stores : Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices; Macquarie
TATTERSALL’S
ROSEHILL CUP.—APRIL 14th
MAY DAY CUP.—MAY Ist
BIRTHDAY CUP.-MAY 24th
BIRTHDAY CUP.-MAY 24th
10,000 at 5.
OS’ 25,000 at 5.
e@r 50,000 at 5.
m- 10,000 at 10.
“ TATTERS ALL,”
Care of Georob Adams,
“The Telegraph” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
, Brisbane, Uucensland
JIILLIS’S GREAT CIRCUS.
Location :
OPPOSITE REDPERN RAILWAY STATION.
Two Grand Performances To-day-
This Afternoon at 3. g3g°“ Doors open one hour earlier.
Specially-selected Programme.
The Management, to encourage the attendances of
Children, has reduced the Price of Admission to Matinee
Performances,
6d. TO ALL PARTS 6d.
The Afternoon Performances are equal in every respeot
to that given in the Evening.
TO-NIGHT I
TO-NIGHT (
Will be I
Rep eated )
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
The Success of the Season.
Enormous Success ! Enormous Success I
The Novel and
Exulting Production
}
Deadwood Dick.
Introducing F. E. FILLXS'S Famous Arab Horse,
HASSAN HASSAN
The Most Perfectly Trained Horse in the World.
Written by Mr. CARGILL, of Sydney. Arranged and
invented by Mr. ALFRED DAMPIER. The whole pro-
duced under the personal direction of F. E. FILLIS.
TO-NIGHT )- The Marvellous ■{ TO-NIQHT
B arteUs,
In their Wonderful and Graceful Performances on th«
Bicycles.
CAPT. EUSSELL and THE LIONS.
Prices of Admission : Special Reserve, 4s; Chairs, Sa;
Stalls, 2s; Gallery, ONE SHILLING.
Children Half-price to Reserve, Chairs, or Stalls.
ET NO HALF-PRICE TO THE GALLERY.
Tickets to be had at the Circus during the Day.
RENOWNED PHYSICIANS, and even the
Public are so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S
IKLA.TICO
that the afflicted need not hesitate to use it,
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young men.
Grimault’s Matico does not cause stricture
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Agents: Elliott Bros., and Australian Drug 00.
.£2OO
GIVEN AWAY IN 140 PRIZES
For Guesses on this Rebus.
Whiehrepresents when correctly solved the names of Three Great Military Heroes or European
Celebrity. To the First Five Persons sending correct answer on or before June 30 th, 1894, we
will give to each A Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever "Watch, Value £lO. To each of the
next Ten, a Sterling Silver Lever "Watch, Value £3. To each of the next 20 a Nickel Silver
Keyless Watch, Value 25/-. To each of the next 25 a Ladies’ Solid Gold Brooch, Value
20/-. To each of the next 50 a Ladies’ Sterling Silver Brooch, Value 10/-. To each of the last
five correct answers, a Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever Watch, Value £lO. To next
25 a Model Sewing Machine or a Paragon Washing Machine. With your answer send
Fifteen Penny Stamps for a Box of either “Star Antihlllous Pills” best Liver, Kidney
& Bowel Regulator ever used. “Star Cough Pills” best Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza
“ Star Rheumatic Pills ” cures Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago. “ Star Neuralgic
Pills ” cures Neuralgia, Tic Doloreux, Toothache. These Valuable Gifts are made solely to
introduce our Wonderful Medicines. Every person answering this will receive list of names &
addresses of Prize Winners. Pair proportion of prizes reserved for each Colony; write at once
to The NATIONAL DRUG Co., Russell St., Melbourne, or MARSHALL BROS.,
Cor. Pitt & Park Streets, Sydney, Agents, for N.S.W.— Mention this Paper.
%
*
THE RAGE OF SYDNEY!
THE
“DUCHESS of YORK”
WALTZ.
\
“ I will have it played at all balls
under my conductorship during the
coming season.”— Ernest Needs.
Played at Government House
BY
NEEDS’ BAND.
ON SALE BY
W. H. PALING & CO.
(limited),
GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY,
And all the leading Music Shops.
Send Postal Order— TWO SHILLINGS.
zdzrjustik:
BOYRIL !
The Life Sustainer .
FOB THE MUSCLES. FOR THE BLOOD.
FOR THE BONE.
THE FORTIFIER FROM DISEASE.
The Great Giver of Strength
TO
COHSUMPTIYES& WEAKLINGS
Consumed by Athletes and Men in Training
In Enormous Quantities.
Sold by all Chemists and Grocers.
RAirm A CoT Sole Agents,
SYDNEY.
jgANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Half-yearly
General MEETING of the Proprietors will be
held at the Chief Banking-house, George-street,
Sydney, on MONDAY, the 30th day of April
instant, at noon, to consider the Report of the
Board of Directors, to be then made; to elect a
Director in the room of James Milson, Esq.,
resigned, and whose place has been temporarily
filled by the appointment of Charles Smith, Esq.;
and to consider such other matters and things as
may then be brought forward in conformity with
the Deed of Settlement.
By order of the Board of Directors.
9 GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
By the 45th clause of the Deed of Settlement it
is provided that every Proprietor who shall be-
come a Candidate for the office of Director shall
give notice thereof to the Board of Directors in
writing fourteen days at the least before the day
of election.
Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney, 6th April, 1894.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Eignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS 1 IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of Mr. George Rignold in
Tlae lilglxts o’ L oudou.
Supported by a Specially-selected Cast.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrovo.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough & Bouoioault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
“DANDY DICK.”
Saturday, April 14, will be produced for the First Time,
“ THE SECOND MRS. TANQUEEAY.”
BIJOU THEATRE (late Gaiety).
Under the Management of W. J. Wilson.
THIRD AND LAST WEEK OF THE
Bs., 2s. ■{ Strategist ) and Is.
“ Come ere it he Too Late."
FRANK HAWTHORNE as “JACK RUTLEDGE.”
NOTlCE.—Entire change of bill on Saturday next, when
to meet the times the Management has decided to reduce
the prices to—Orchestra Chairs, 2s. 6d., Stalls, Is.,
Family Circle, SIXPENCE.
Albury missing word competi-
tions. DOUBLE GUESSES-No. 6.
“Self-defence was the object aimed at when arming
the Sydney police with revolvers. If the weapon is other-
wise employed, constables will become particularly
citizens, and cause more alarm to the public than to the
burglar and garrotter.”
CLOSES SATURDAY, APRIL 14.—Every Competitor
allowed two guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O.
Order, -1/1 if in stamps. Add exchange to Postal
notes other colonies. Total amount (less 10 per cent.)
divided amongst successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited, in a sealed envelope, with
Mr. T. P. Hughes, the well known Albury Bookseller.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W
MANLY
Co-Operative Steam Ferry Co. (Ltd.)
v —PROM—>
No. 1 JETTY, CIUEIfLAK QUAY
(Foot of Pitt-street), to
Main Manly Wharf.
rpHE STEAMERS of this COMPANY run as follows
(weather permitting, and as far as practicable):—
Leave Sydney— 7.ls, 8.0, 9.0,10.30,11.30, 12.30(1.0),
1.30 (2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.30 (4.0), 4.30, 5.0, 5.30, 6.15,
7.30, 9.30, 11.15
Leave Manly- 7.15, 8.10, 8.45, 9.45, 11.30, 12.30, 1.30
(2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.30 (4.0;, 4.30 (5.0), 5.80, 6.0, 6.30,
7.0, 8.30,10.15.
Trips marked () Saturday only.
Special Time-Table, Sundays and Holidays.
k
ROSEHILL CUP.
2000 at 2 6
MAY DAY CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BRISBANE CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BIRTHDAY CUP.
10,000 at 2 6
(ROSEHILL)
April 14, 1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 1, 1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 24, 1894.
(RANDWICK)
May 26,1894.
Address “STAR,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE.
CHARLES W
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY,
f
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code; “WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
Colonies. Double and Straight-out.
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups—lo,ooo to 10 to 20.
Y.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup—s,ooo to 25 to 20.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,’' situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. ELMS.
—THE-
Wentworth Hotel
WENTWORTH' HQTCI.
imnci
m
* vm.
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Ho^rdorSt
Mrs, HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone Mo. 1688.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Melbourne Oup stakes for 1894, instead of
being £lO,OOO and a trophy, will be only £5OOO and no
trophy. This fearsome writing on the wall appeared last
Tuesday, and till then no one had even begun to realise
the true awfulness of Melbourne’s fall. And since then
words have failed to express the situation, and the British
language has filed a feeble and anguished schedule in
despair. Ichabodl Melbourne the great is fallen—is
fallen I The grass withereth ; the flower fadeth ; and I lie
Cup has gone bung. Only the eloquent Jeremiah, the pro-
phet of desolation, could do justice to the situation, and
therefore The Bulletin hereby presents its readers with a
few extracts from that weeping prognosticator of old, as
its humble tribute in a day of great calamity. And on
second thoughts, it doesn’t present the aforesaid ex-
tracts, because there is nothing even in Jeremiah that is
quite desolate enough to meet the case. So Tub Bulletin
heaps ashes on its head—or at least it would do so only
the engine is run by gas and there aren’t any ashes on the
premises—and cries incoherently with a loud voice saying
nothing in particular, but thinking several things.
• ♦ * *
The eight oarsmen to represent N.S.W. against
Victoria have been finally chosen. Natty M'Donald is
emergency-man 1 Good old emergency 1 Natty would be
just getting warm when half of the crew as at present
constituted were rowed out.
» • • •
The Victorian intercolonial eight finally chosen
will consist of the two Donalds and Maher (Wendouree),
Charnley and Horshrugh (Yarra), Davies and Lindgren
(Mercantile), with Sloan (Electric Telegraph) and Begg
(Melbourne) as emergencies. With Enticott (Yarra) and
Dr. Kenny (Melb.), the crew would probably be improved,
and, on the whole, it is not a bit better than last year’s,
which proved a soft thing for the Sydneyites.
* * • •
W. H. Davies, one of the chosen Vie. eight,
drops out, dissatisfied with his seat, so rumour says.
The bow side of the Vic. boat, says a correspondent, is
strong enough to pull the strokes around in circles.
Another glorious defeat looms ahead for the Southerners.
• * • •
Many of the leading Sydney metallicians declare
“they will not put on the bag” at any more pony and
galloway race meetings. Only a few weeks ago there were
several numbers hoisted on the board for one race. Some-
body connected with the favourite ofliced it to a
book, to “put in the bag 1” “Not me!” replied the
astute one, “ I want to lay agin live ’uns. It’s the dead
’un* which sends us home broke.” The supposed ‘‘stiff "
won after all 1 Are the Tommies to be blamed if they
kick against such a system of barefaced robbery 7
» * * •
For Autumn Rosehill meeting there are more
unlikely things than that the grey filly, Bliss, may win the
first end of the big double. Nightingale, Division, and
The Trier may be found in the first batch in the struggle
for the other end.
* • * *
The sporting gaffer again. Fitzsimmons says he
is now stonebroke, after winning £16,000 in purses alone.
In future, Fitz. declares, he will do his own management.
* * • *
The N.S.W. Cyclists Union elected Gov. Duff
the patron of last year, but denounces him because he will
not pay five guineas this year. Which looks very like
blackmail.
» * * •
The Hayes-Australasian libel trial should help
to clear the turf of some of its villainy.
* • * •
If charity covers a multitude of sins, book-
makers shoo'd have a contra account. Oxenham, at the
A.J.C. settling, passed round the hat and realised £250
f >r the jockey, Longford, who lately lost a leg.
» » » ♦
The unfairness of assessing a sire’s merits accord-
ing to the amount of his progeny’s winnings is shown by
the fact that, so far, Newminster, per aid of Tarcoola’s
> up, is ahead of Trenton. Leaving this out, there would
be no comparison between the two.
» ♦ * •
Ye gods! what must it take to keep “the
Syndcate” going! At the Autumn A.J.C. meeting it
had 12 starts for two seconds and one third.
* * • •
Nine out of 11 of the junior team of a Sydney
swell < ticket club are of the Chosen race. With three
balls in the field this team should prove invincible. P.S.—
This is a goak.
* • * •
Only three horses finished in the Steeplechase
at Randwick on Saturday, and the inevitable poor devil
of a jockey was ambulanced to St. Vincent’s Hospital.
Hiwever, The Bulletin is glad to notice that such things
don’t shock the ladies very much. The modern fashion-
able woman apparently thinks no more of seeing a man
crushed and carried off the course thau the old-timer did
of turning down her thumbs.
• • ♦ *
Alf. Von Doussa, fifteen years or so see. of
Onkaparinga (S. A.) Race Club, hopes to achieve a £lOOO
steeple next Easter Monday.
» * * •
Another Melb. horse-trainer was added to the
list of insolvents last week. The trainer who hasn’t filed
his schedule is becoming a rare specimen these times.
• * * »
The S. A. legal anti-betting crusade has caused
an influx of racing ponies into Broken Hill and Silverton,
where small youths with strong arms are in great request.
* » * •
S.A. bookmakers assert that their only friends
are the clergy, as the latter want to abolish the tote.
Every conscientious Adelaide “ book ” ought to pay pew-
rent, and even become a deacon.
* * ♦ »
Trenton bids fair to be topsawyer among Aus-
fcralian sires.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Sampson, the strong man, who is engaged to a
woman of wealth and beauty, is reported to be anxious
to fight Corbett.
N.S.W. Swimming Association protests against
exhibitions of prolonged immersion as dangerous and
useless, and—it might have added -uninteresting.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
On the same night that some Sydney policemen
last raided a miserable Chinese fan-tan shop. Gov. Dull
had “to dinner ” several of the most prominent turf-
sportsmen in N.S.W. The amount involved in an ordinary
race-meeting’s transactions of one of these guests would
buy up ail the Chinese gambling-dens in the Sydney
metropolitan area.
* * * *
The battle of the books and horses at Auckland
(M.L.) University has resulted in victory for the horses.
Prof. Aldis wanted to kick Teddy O’Rorke’s pony out of
the college stables. But Teddy’s father was chairman of
the College Council, and put a large, flat foot down.
Hence the biggest educational row that Maoriland has
seen, ending in the retirement of the professor.
* » * *
Village Maid is reported to have cleared 38ft.
in the Hurdle Race at Cooriejong. This is close to
Chandler’s 39ft.
* * * •
J udging by results and accidents, the Randwick
are more formidable than the Flemington fences.
* * * ♦
On dit a recent wealthy addition to the N.S.W.
turf, on being told by his trainer how a certain colt
could not be got fit for the Derby, replied: “Oh! well
don’t bother—keep him for next year.”
♦ » » *
Slavin, beaten in the ring, has filed in bank-
ruptcy. Now that he has come down, he will be once
more known as “Paddy” instead of “Frank.”
» * , » »
Year by year the genuine country turf clubs are
going down while metropolitan swindles flourish. The
Murrumbidgee Turf Club has had to cancel its meeting*
through want of entries.
**~ • ♦
Melb. cyclists met in full force last Saturday
afternoon to protest against the £5-duty. The demon-
stration, which was run by the importers, was fairly suc-
cessful as a show ; but, although no machines are made in
Victoria, the fact remains that an Adelaide-made “ bike"
has won an Austral; also, that Tom’s record-ride from
the saintly city to Melb. was also won on a local machine.
• * * •
The ambition of Mick MTnerny, the Melb.
footballer and boxer, was checked on Saturday night by
his seven-round defeat by Tom Duggan, at the Cumber-
land Club. Duggan, who now poses as middle-weight
champion, has been beaten but once—by a chance blow
from a man whom he knocked down half-a-dozen times in
the first round.
• • ♦ •
Larry Foley predicts a Sydney boxing boom in
the near future. As of yore, the champions will come
back stone-broke, and, availing himself of cheap talent,
the only fistic caterer can then give the public a good
bill-of-fare.


Thames Electrics Steam Launch C?
cut.
&
it
1 *- ~ —
ELECTRIC LAUNCH "GLOW-WOKM,” 53ft. by 7ft. 3in.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power —Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND-
ED W A R D S'
f
for
the
ƒ
WORLD-KENOWNED
HAIR PRODUCER^RESTORER
PRODUCES
Luxuriant Hair, Whiskers and Moustaches.
f
Prevents the Hair Palling Off and
Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Remedy for
BALDNESS.
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre-
serving, Strengthening, and rendering the Hair
beautifully soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
| ruff, etc.
r
Also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, it is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless, and devoid of any Metallic or other In-
jurious ingredients. Is not a Wye. Tlie Best Dressing. Specially prepared lor Toilet Ise.
Is 2s Cd 3s Gd and 5s Gd per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists, Hair Dresseis and
‘ * Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & 00., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Char Specialities in Jewellery
Jnst Published, our New Pamphlet of elegant Loudon Specialities, a copy of which will he sent post paid on application to S.D. & Co., Sydney.
Dolivoro(1 jsr.s.w. ~~cl CJt~3Csraalm.ha.il (post ptuicL amd duty fresco. Sydney e «.
Usually
Sold
at £lolos.
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
f
Ladies’ 18-ct. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2lO,
Unapproachable in quality and price.
ƒ
No. 525. —Lovers’ Knot and Heart Brooch,
15-ct. Gold, £1 5.
9s»
grO'o'o'cfcfa'o;
No. 533.—15-ct. Gold Brooch, 1 Diamond,
2 Pearls, £2 10.
f
No 511—Elegant Lucky Bell Brooch, 9-ct.
Gold, 17/6; 15-ct. Gold, £1 10;
Silver, 5/6.
ƒ
Elecrant
Heart
and
Lovers"
Knot
Brooch.
15-cl* Gold, Diamond centre, £3.
f
Whip and Shoe Pin,
15-ct. Gold, 15/6
Silver, 4/6.
f
No. 228.— Set Links,
9-ct. Gold, 10/0.
Silver, 3/-
ss
Pin and Stud, 15-ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£1 it e.
ƒ
No. 226.—Set Links,
9-ct. Gold, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, 4/6.
f
Pin and Stud, 15-ct. Gold,
6 Diamonds, 1 Sapphire,
£3 IS 6.
w
15-ct. Gold Locket,
Diamond Centre, £3 5.
WATCHES.
The variety, ex-
tent and value of
our superb stock
outrivals the sem-
blance of any com-
parison.
V
f
Telescopic
Pencil, 9-ct
Gold, 35/-
Silver,
10,6.
ƒ
No. 76-1.—
9-Ot. Qold.
Lucky Charm Bell
Bracelet, £1 10.
?
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, from i 1 15 ; 15-ct. Gold, from £3 B.
For sizes, see Illustrations in Pamphlet.
f
No. 756. cucKy Bell Bracelet, 9-ct. Gold, £1 10 J
5 Bell ditto, £2 ; 3 Bell ditto, silver, 7/6.
a mik m
No. 759.— Double Heart Bracelet,
15-ct. Gold and 2 Diamonds, 1 3 10.
No. 106.—Gent’s Albert, 9-ot. Gold, £4 4 ; 15-ot., £6 15 ; Silver, 15/6.
ƒ
No. 107. Gent’s Albert, 9-ct. Gold, £3 12/6; 15-ot., £5 17/6; Silver, 13 6.
f
No. 42.—Ladies’ Ring,
16-ct. Gold, 7 Rubies
6 Pearls, £1 5.
No. 53.— Electro-Silver
Breakfast Cruet, fine
English Cut Bottles, Spoons,
complete, 21/-
ƒ
No. 39.—Ladies’ Ring,
18-ot. Gold, 2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £3 10.
m
No. 70.—Solid Silver
Napkin Rings, lin. wide.
2in case £l2 0
4 ditto 2 5 0
No. 32.— Ladies’ Ring,
18-ct. Gold, 1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, £2.
f
No. 26.— Wedding Ring,
Massive 18-ct. Gold, 21/-
18-ct. Keeper, same price.
ƒ
Lovers’ Knot
and New.
9-ct. Gold, 14/6
Silver, 4,6
Lucky Beil
Brooch.
15-ct. Gold,
£ll6
f
, —Silver Match Box, 11,6.
Size Smaller, 8/6.
9-ct. Gold, £2 10.
v /'■'.nvisva
w&jsr
506.— G.H.M.
Diamond Centre
15ct. Brooch,
£1 15s.
S'- .
No. 504.—The “ Little Pet’s ’’ Brooch,
9-ct. Gold, 5/0.
SOVEREIGN
m
si
PURSE.
No. C05.—Silver, 9/6. Plain ditto, 8,6.
9 ct. Gold, engraved, £2 10.
ƒ
No. 531.—Pearl Initial Brooch, any letter
9 ct. Gold, 7/6.
NOTH.—Mach Article bring Government Hall-marked or Stamped , the quality
Add t© Remittance for Post anh Register ; One Article, Cd.; Two, 9d.; Three, Is.; Six, Is. Od.
We despatch Goods daily, post paid, at these rates, and take all risk in transit. Address
Guaranteed, at the same time our Prices are
about HALF the usual Colonial Charges.
STEWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street,
■' S -ST-DIS-lEY, UST-S.-W.
The amateur reviewer of a N.S.W, country
paper was sent a copy of Miss Braddon’s “ The
Dav Will Come” for a notice.’ It panned out
thusly : “ We have received, from Mr. Drury,
oLtioner, &c., of this town, a copy of a work by
Miss Braddon, entitled, ‘ The Day Will Come.’
We may remark that so will the night.”
At a Sydney R.O. Church, on a recent
a n( jav the cashiers and bookkeepers had just
begun to take up a collection, starting at the end
next the pulpit. The holy father heard the first
fa W coins drop in and they had a coppery sound
which suggested poverty. Suddenly he lifted up
a short, admonitory finger and said Stop !
The collection stopped right there, and the father,
with thunder on his brow, stepped down and
counted the takings for the first three seats. Then
i, e resumed his position, and in the course of five
minutes he hurled every imaginable variety of fire
and brimstone at the flock, and uncorked the
flames of hell generally. When he had finished
the collection went on again, leaving the
rlplinauenta in the first three seats stunned and
nearly insensible.
What Melbourne papers apparently regard
an exceedingly humorous case was lately settled
in the local police court. Two men fought for the
nossession of a particular “doss,” the corner of a
dust-bin near the wharf. Buchanan claimed that
the doss was his by precedence, and finding Shaw
in possession when about to retire one evening, he
hauled him out, and stated his claim. In the
“ scrap ” that ensued Shaw was handicapped by
the absence of his trousers which were being
mended by a mate at the nearest lamp-post. The
Bench held that Buchanan was legally justified in
the action he had taken-on the principle that a
Briton’s “doss” is his castle, apparently—but
thought he was wanting in hospitality in turning
out a trouserless man on a cold and censorious
world. Case dismissed. These men were not
loafers. It is a good joke in a young country to
have working-men fighting for a kennel to creep
into.
THE AVERAGE MAN.
His hat looks worn and his coat-sleeves shine
As I see him step from his ’bus at nine,
His boots are pieced and his tie home-made,
And his trousers patched where the edge was frayed,
And his face is lined by the stress of Life
Where a man must fight for his bairns and wife.
“ Who’s that?” I ask, as his face I scan.
And the answer comes: “ Oh ! an average Man 1”
He has not got notes, he has not got gold, ,
But his homely lunch, in his handbag old.
And day by day as the seasons go
He follows'his duty to and fro.
And shadows follow him everywhere—
Grim Want and Worry and Dread are there.
For Life is nut on a gorgeous plan —
Far, far from it—to the average man.
The Floods, the Banks, and the curtailed screw,
The weekly bills and the grasping Jew,
The servant’s wage and the Doctor's fee,
And the needful change by the breezy sea,
And the pent-up hours at the desk which mean
A man’s brain changed to a mere machine,
And a wife’s tired eyes and the children wan,
All press like lead on the average man.
When the blood is up ’tis a simple thing
To charge where the bombs and the bullets sing!
But he is worthy of a higher place
Who fronts his woes with a smiling face.
For the noblest strife in our Life to-day
Is the humdrum fight in the humdrum way.
O Wealth and Genius may lead the van !
But the hero is often—an average man !
G. ESSEX EVANS
-in the
Queenslander.
Hypnotism is so far advanced that you can
cram a student for examination hypnotically, and
he will remember it all when he wakes up. So
much advantage has been taken of this dodge by
examinees in France that it is now forbidden by
law.
London Graphic advertisement:—
QOOK— Can any Lady Recommend a reliable Good
. Plain Cook for the country, where assistance is
given? Small family; wages £25 ; Church of Eng-
land ;no fringe. Address, Box 150, Daily Telegraph
office, 194 Strand, W.C.
“No fringe.” The fringe is a sign of worldliness
and frivolity, and no really serious English family
would have a servant whose hair wasn’t plastered
down flat on her head, like the greasy locks of a
footballer. To all intents and purposes the
British creed is that no fringe shall enter the
kingdom of Heaven, and that only the very plain
person of the “lower orders” can hope to be
saved. Half the feminine charitable societies in
England really exist for the purpose of sternly
admonishing the young person of the lower orders
who isn’t so plain as she ought to be. Thus
London Referee: —
Without being ungallant, I cannot help urging that
women in a position of authority are harder-hearted and
less considerate than men ; and, in spite of the fact that
women have of late years become the dominant sex, they
still remain small-minded in small matters. No man would
work himself up into a state of absolute fury because his
male servant went out on Sunday in a hat the same shape
as his own, but who that has had domestic experience
cannot recall the flush of anger on the face of the mistress
of the house if Mary Jane is observed taking her departure
on Sunday afternoon in a hat and feathers or a mantle of
fashionable shape ? No master would object to his man-
servant parting his hair either in the middle or at the
side, but it is not so long since we had a furious attack on
the “fringe” of the female servant carried on by indig-
nant mistresses in the public press. Why, because a girl
takes the honourable and onerous position of domestic
servant, she should be compelled to wear her hair just as
it pleases her mistress to decide, I have never been able
to understand; and it is also a mystery to me why she
should not be allowed to dress exactly as she chooses
when she is not on duty.
One of the features of N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Society’s show for 1894 was the splendid
exhibits of butter sent in by the Fresh Food and
Ice Co. This company exhibited in only two
sections and was awarded first prize in each, and
the champion prize. Its butter is known far and
wide as the very best in Australia, and its brand,
when affixed to the finished product of the cow,
is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. The
“ Golden Star ” brand of creamery butter, which
gained champion prize at the aforesaid show, is
especially well-known. It is delivered in 11b, and
Jib. pats, and is wrapped up in a special vegetable
parchment which is impervious to grease, so
that the purchaser of a sample package may
carry it away in his bag without soiling or
injury. The company’s “Moss Rose” brand of
prime factory butter is almost equally famous.
One cause of the excellence of the Fresh
Food and Ice Co.’s product is the employ-
ment of a special machine for moulding
and printing the pats. Other causes which make
the “Golden Star’ and the “Moss Rose” the
most favourite brands in the market are the ex-
ceeding cleanliness with which all the operations
of manufacture are conducted, the skill of the
operators, and the use of the best and most
modern appliances. The Fresh Food and Ice Co.
also supplies milk, cream, fresh fish—Australian,
English, and from Maoriland; and delivers its
goods everywhere in Sydney and suburbs, and in
all the outlying parts of N.S. Wales where rail-
-1 way, steamer or coach communication is available.
“ In translation the soul of poetry escapes
and enters the body of a new-laid babe, which
becomes an invoice-clerk in a warehouse.” —
Ambrose Bieboe.
Insanity—Perfected egotism,
No more drifting sand at seaside resorts,
The luxuriant marram-grass firmly binds the sand
It should be tried at Manly Beach.


Musical Instruments.
XMAS BOXES!
• To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away 11 (only 30, OOO)
BE IN TIME.
Scud Four Penny Stamp* and yon will receive
In return a 4*. Song, Waltz or Plano Piece,
FBE E t
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
ZlKenienibcr this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
Gru.na & RifLea,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES. SEWING MACHINES.
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
6d. per -wools. 6(3.
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK 1
At 2d. and 3d. each —Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Hd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants «V Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
S3T Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
WHS. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, &c,
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
43T Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers.
jpiANOS { PIANOS ! PIANOS !
G-oian3oi>r’s,
296 BOIJRKE STREET (near Oxford-st.), SYDNEY.
The Cheapest, Best and most reliable House for Pianos
in the Colony. Pianos by all the most celebrated makers
at HALF the PRICES charged elsewhere. Also,
GREAT VARIETY of SECOND-HAND PIANOS,
From £lO to £2O.
BROOM£3iMUSTC
Full Music Size, and Guaranteed Correct.
f
m
183
or |3 Copies 3/-
CATALOGUBS
POST FREE.
577.
578.
579.
585.
586.
484.
629.
621.
624.
683.
571.
527.
630.
SONGS.
In Honour's Cause (Illustrated).
After the Ball (Illustrated).
An Old Sweet Greeting, in F.
.. » G.
„ „ B flat.
The Reason Why, In B flat.
.■ „ G.
Where the Sea Breaks on the Shore
(Illustrated).
Diver in E flat (Ulus.) 668 in F
PIANOFORTE.
After the Ball Waltz (Illustrated)
Search light Polka (Illustrated).
Impudence Schottische (Ulus.)
[Gautier.)
Geneva (Graceful Dance). (L
March of the Goblins Blue (lively)
Old GoldPolka(a veryprettypolka)
Sprites by Night (just published)
HOWARD & CO.,
QUEEN STREET, WOOILAHRA,
Sydney, New South Wales.
Business Announcements.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Bs. 6d.
■jAifcJgbuor
1
/Jenry
. TRADE MARC |
smtcvoob
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. 6d.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-callecl pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beauiifully felted as to have Ihe texture of velvet.
a. XX. SMITH & SOM,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE LAST OF SIX.”
Kent fop the Wearied Soles by trying
B L L I S’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For ladies. Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
SSSj
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DU ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OP AUSTRALIA.
No matter how far in the interior you reside, ELLIS’S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample tread,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY—they are a “going con-
eern ” from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw” or blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items: Gent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid, 17s fid ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s fid ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s fid; French Calf Cossacks, 14s fid; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s fid ; Primes!. French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s fid, Tops for ditto, 12s fid ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s fid (worth £3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s fid; Three-quarter ditto, 26s fid; Half ditto,
23s fid; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
fid; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s fid ; Ladies’ and Children’s
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies’ Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto E.S., 16s fid. In stock—
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d: Nice Glace Oxford Shoe, 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep, Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s fid.
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
“I am pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me; make me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“ JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.”
‘‘Your boots are the best I have ever worn, both for
comfort and durability.
“ FRED. T. BERMAN, Public School, Coonamble.”
“ The boots are a perfect fit, and beautifully finished.
“A. M‘MILLAN, Warri, Coolamon, N.S.W.”
“There can be no two opinions about Ellis’s Boots,
they are the best we have ever had.
“GEORGE GUEST, senr., Boggabri, N.S.W.”
SPECIAL COUPONS
Cut this Coupon out, for-
ward with your measure-
ments and remittance, and
the goods will be mailed
free.
ONE COUPON will
secure any
number of pairs
as desired.
f/j&oi
sUR£ J|
:
&
'SI
p os r
£U/
r**
7.5 [
bm
OF
m pUr£ „ d p
sss&»t
pure
TO
eT^Ss
a to
*
!oW*t
l oC lb* V £ L KI C rF
f U/s
LADIES
C °UP 0(U
BALMOfI^
<-fC
FIN eCAL?
UflM
PS
WORTH
m
FREE
POST
NIEAJa
to
6/6
Special Notice 1 Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
£lOO One Hundred rounds! £IQO
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. £3; sth, do. £2; 40 prizes, value £1 each;
10 do. at 15s. each; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Add exchange on Intercolonial Postal
Notes.
T. Jtla. Jt*mT sLIS,
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Headquarters at George-st., Sydney, Shortly.
Publications.
G
EORGE ROBERTSON AND COMPANY,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE and LONDON.
MTIAI Dnni/O Braddon (Miss), All Along the
IM C. TV DUUIXOi River, picture boards, 2s, p.
2s 4(1; Ditto ditto, cloth, 2s 6d, p. 2s lOd; Winter (J. S.),
The Son! of the Bishop, picture hoards, 2s, p. 2s 4d ; Hun-
gerford (Mrs.), The Hoyden, 3s 6d, p. 4s; Merry Min-
strelsy, Is, p. Is 2d; Hare, Last of the Bushrangers, new
edition, 3s 6d, p. 4s ; Serao, Farewell Love, 3s 6d, p. 4s;
Tolstoi, Kingdom of God, 3s, 6d,’p. 4s.
NEW AUSTRALIAN PUBLICATIONS.—The Modera-
tor’s Address, 1894, 6d, p. 7d ; De Lissa, Companies Work
and Mining Law, 10s 6d, p. Us ; Gibson, Ironbark Chips
and Stock-whip Cracks, Bs, p. Bs Bd ; The Antipodean, '94,
Ulus., Is, p. Is 3d; M'lver, Neuroomia, picture boards, 2s,
p. 2s 4d; Warung (Price), Tales of the Early Days,
boards, 2s, p. 2s 4d ; Ditto ditto, cloth, 2s 6d, p. 2s lOd ;
Town Hall, Sydney, a beautiful steel engraving by
Daniel Forbes, Is, p. Is Id.
«EO, UOBGKTSON and CO.,
361-363 Gborob Strbkt, SYDNEY.
CHEAP MUSIC.
“PLAYFELLOWS.”
This popular Song, by the composer of “ After the Ball,’
and 1000 other popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &0., at 3d.
each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
?03 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
im
aidno
livH'A
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post tree.
“Uusli for the
Spoil,’*
By ZOLA,
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by Q.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, if- Private Companion for Married
People ; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Besant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post !/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &0., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, Sco,, 1/6.
The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Holliok, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. R. REA.R, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Masohera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Lea Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Hotel.
m
“she (Sydney <§offee <galace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young's Crescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, S.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board ... 308
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4a
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
descriptive.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, eto.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
' Xsoft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
vith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
TORONTO HOTEL,
LAKE MACQUARIE.
Terms: 7/- and 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
Access easy. Train direct from Sydney or the
North.
H. A. BRETT, Manager.
ELECTRIC PILLS.-For General Debility,
Weakness, Lassitude, &o. (Dr. Laseurs,
M.D., Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in
the world.) Electric Pills are the most speedy
and most powerful remedy in the world. One
box will be sufficient, and in even the weakest, the
oldest, and most shattered, work a miracle, while
perfectly harmless, leaving no bad after effects.
Guaranteed Never to Fail, Worth their weight in
gold. Price, 10s. (id., post free, from the sole
agent, W. PARSONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke-street
east, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
SQUATTER’S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
Post Free, Os. 6d.
The Bulletin
2-3 Size.
R. &, G. HAWORTH,
Cutlet's, 401 George St., Sydney,
frW* Post your Razor to be Ground and Set—enclose 1/3.
■9
“Clothed wllh A Ip,”
Cellular Cloth
with
Linen Fronts & Cuffs
6/6 & 7/6
Just Opened.
Cellnlsir Cloth Shirts,
French Print Fronts and
Cuffs; 3-stud; various
patterns—6/6.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents:
BRAHAM & MUTCH,
76 King St., SYDNEY.
-■a—.]
yw- ' ,y
iL 1 -
J 1 „
n«9E
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER.
SMITH PREMIER TYPEWRITER.
National Cash Registers, Smiths Premier
Typewriters and Typewriter supplies .
PISHEE AND LINGHAM,
3 Victoria Arcade, Sydney,
The Celebrated Pipe,
GrBD
Excels ALL Others.
FIRST PRIZE ALL EXHIBITIONS
Wholesale Depot:
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SOLD
BV ALL
EHEass
MILWARD’S
SHARPS
?*■
■STANDARD' NEEDLES.
THROUGHOUT
EBI
WORLD.
PER „
ft Pleasure t 0 us K
Bi pa
KROPP
RAZOR
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“J find your
Razors excel-
lent
REAL GERMAN HoLLolV—finnilun
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London. W.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. ELDEIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country < t 'ens by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
QUEEN SLANT) SADDLERY.
A Llj in want of the above should call on or send foi
price-list to
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
supplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
KOMARf]
AO),
CROMARTY
Whisky
g
CMENICKS BROfTO
O40*80'tU“<OyNAH»
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.


Soap .Makers
ES
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
i
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales
“At the Feet of His Fame."
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I.
“ What is your name, please?”
“ Jane Marson.”
“Tell the jury, please, what you are and what
you know of the persons into the cause of whose
deaths we are now inquiring.”
“I was servant to Mr. and Mrs. Baird ”
“ Their only servant! ”
“ Their only servant. I had been with them
since their marriage, four years ago about. Yester-
day ”
“ Well?”
“ I found them both —dead ! ”
“ Describe, please—take your time!—how you
found them.”
“I got up about seven o’clock and began my
housework as usual. I first brought the papers in
from the verandah, and looked to see whether the
House had sat late ”
“Never mind that. Tell us how you found
the bodies.”
“ I am coming to that. You see, sir, if the
House was sitting late I put breakfast off, and did
not take the papers up to Mrs. Baird’s room. I
saw the House had not sat late, so I was taking
the papers upstairs when
“What?”
“ I had to pass the room in which Mr, Baird
used to keep his books and papers and do his
writing. The door was open, and I was surprised
to see him sitting at the table. The blinds were
down, and the lamp, which was still burning, was
dim, so, at first, 1 thought him asleep—fallen
asleep over his reading,”
“ What did you do?”
“I did not disturb him—l thought he would
not like it, so I went up to their bedroom intend-
ing to awake Mrs. Baird so that she might rouse
him. I knocked at the room-door, but got no
answer, so went in and drew up the blinds. Then
I went to the bed and touched Mrs. Baird to wake
her. She was dead.”
“ Describe how you found her.”
“ She was lying in bed, just as if she was asleep
—just as she has been lying at other times when
I have gone in when Mr. Baird has been away
from home,”
“Were there any signs of disturbance in her
dress—the bed-clothes ?”
“ Were neat and uncrumpled—at least, nothing
more than ordinary—now I think of it, not so
much. ”
“And she was dead ?”
“ Quite dead, sir—and cold !”
“What did you do then?”
“ I rushed downstairs to Mr Baird’s room ”
“ His study ?’’
“They did not call it a study. They called it
the ‘Den.’ And when Mrs. Baird was in a
teasing humour she would speak of it as “The
Bear’s Den.”
“Ah ! And you went to the * Den ?’ ”
“ Yes—to rouse Mr. Baird ! I hardly knew
what I was doing—l was so startled, but that was
my idea, I know !’’
“ And you found——?”
“That he was dead, too. I remember now I
put my hand on his shoulder ”
“ Was he sitting upright ?”
“ No, his head was bent on his clasped hands,
which rested upon the table. I called him, and
shook him, and then I knew he was dead.”
“What did you do, then?’*
“ I don’t know—for some time I was stupid,
dazed. ’
“Did you faint?”
“ I think I did, sir. After a time, I went to
the neighbours, and told them. They sent for the
police—who have had charge of the house since.”
There was a long pause. Then the coroner
asked, with a strident emphasis—
“ What did you do with the chloral bottle —or
bottles, witness?”
“ The—chloral, sir?” The witness was confused
16 rs *' * ; ' me during her examination.
“Yes, the chloral. The medical testimony is
that death in both cases resulted from chloral-
poisoning ?”
. *’ It was overdoses, sir, overdoses—l’m sure of
it!”
“Ah, how can you be sure of it? But we’ll
come back to that again. Where are the chloral
bottles ?”
No answer. The question was repeated sternly.
Still the woman’s lips were closed.
“ I warn you that you are placing yourself in a
very serious position, witness ! The presumption
is that you removed the bottle or bottles of chloral
before you notified the neighbours. Did you ?”
Quiveringly she answered at last: “Y-e-es!
But I’m sure they both took overdoses V 9
“To what place did you remove the drug ?”
“ I’ll go and get them, sir—l will, sir !”
Were there two bottles, or was there only
one?”
“ Two.”
“ Where were they when you first saw them ?”
One on the little table by Mrs. Baird’s bed—
the other in his hands.”
“You removed them before vou went for the
neighbours ?”
The witness nodded.
“ Now—where to?”
“ To—my—box,”
“ At the Bairds’ house?”
“ Yes—l’ll go and get them, sir !”
“An officer will go with you. Sergeant .”
“Oh, never mind, sir—l’ll really bring’em, I
will. The sergeant needn’t bother.”
“You are in the court’s hands, witness. The
officer must go with you, or alone. 1 can empower
him to search for the drug.”
“ I—will—go, sir !”
11.
“Before we resume, gentlemen, the examina-
tion of the witness Marson, the sergeant of police
will testify as to his finding the chloral.”
“My name is William Brady. lam a sergeant
of police attached to No. 33 Division. Yesterday
morning I was placed by Inspector Phillips in
charge of this enquiry. . . . Upon informa-
tion received from the doctors, I made search for
a chloral bottle or bottles. I was unsuccessful.
The previous witness, when interrogated by me,
denied having seen them. When ordered by you
just now, sir, I proceeded with the previous wit-
ness to tne Bairds’ house, and in the room occu-
pied by that witness found a locked box. The
witness Marson unlocked it, just lifted the lid,
put her hand in, drew out the two bottles I pro-
duce, and let the lid drop again and locked the
box instantly. Her hand was in the box less than
half-a-minute. From a rustling of paper, it
seemed as if she had taken the bottles out of a
wrapper. I asked her had she done so ; she denied
it. I insisted upon examining the box myself.
She flung the key through the window, which was
open, into the shrubbery. I have told off a eon-
stable to bring the box here, sir, and another to
search for the key. The box may or may not
contain farther evidence bearing upon the case—
the inquiry.”
“You did right, Sergeant Brady. Stand down
now. Jane Marson!”
“What is your objection to having your box
examined ?”
“Because—”
“ The Court is waiting. I must warn you that
I will not put up with any further trifling. You
have already sought to deceive the Court. Why
do you object? Were there any wrappers on the
bottles?”
“No, sir, none.”
“Then, why do you object?”
Sergeant Brady here whispered to the Coroner.
“ The Sergeant tells me the key is found. Ser-
geant, open the box ”
“Oh, sir, never mind. I’ll tell you why, since
you must know —-I — Mrs. Baird told me some-
time ago I was to —have some of the jewellery if
she died—and I took it yesterday—and placed it
in the box.”
“Sergeant, open the box !”
The witness Marson burst into tears.
11l
“Now, witness, no jewellery has been found in
that box. Only these two letters, one in an
envelope addressed ‘hid ward’ and the other un-
enclosed, but marked ‘Felicia,’ were lying upon
the top of your clothes ! Bearing in mind that
the deceased Mr. Baird’s Christian name was
Edward, and Mrs. Baird’s ‘Felicia,’ how do you
explain the presence of these letters in your box?’*
No answer.
“For some reason or other, witness, you are
endeavouring to deceive the Court. You have
made statements that are misleading, as well as
others that are directly false. I might commit
you for perjury—I might even cause your arrest
on suspicion of having murdered Mr. and Mrs.
Baird— ”
“ I murder them ! That is good! Why, I was
too fond of them both !”
“Then why seek to pervert the course of
Justice ? This lady and gentleman may have been
murdered.”
“No—it was an overdose to each !”
“That is the third time you have made that
statement. It implies a specific knowledge of
how they met their deaths. What do you mean?”
“ Oh,” with a sudden blaze into a pained wrath,
“if you must know, read the letters !”
“Before I read the letters I wish you to prove
they bear on the inquiry. You found the letters,
where ?”
“ The one in the envelope on Mrs. Baird’s table
under the chloral bottle, the other between Mr,
Baird’s fingers.”
“ Then you removed them at the same time that
you removed the chloral bottles ?”
A motion of assent.
“ Why ?”
No answer.
“Was that before you called in the neighbours,
or after ?”
“ Be—fore!”
IV.
“ The jury will please listen closely. This letter
is evidently written by the male deceased, and
the witness Marson has now proved that it was
taken from his hand :
Midnight.
Sweetheart,— To-night, at dinner, I made up my mind
to adjust finally our relations. How, I did not then see.
It was only during the course of a debate in the House
that the solution of our difficulties to which I have came
suggested itself. And that is, dearest—my death. 1 love
you so well that 1 can give up fame for you by giving up
life ; and j’et, somehow, I do not love you well enough to
subject myself to the daily torture of living with a woman
who has no sympathy with my toils, with my aims, with
my dreams—who stabs me daily with her desires to under-
stand me no less acutely than she wounds me with her
misunderstandings. We have tried now for four years to
get closer to one another—and yet we are never so close
os when we arrive at the point of mutual toleration. If I
loved you less, life with you would be easier. If you
loved me less you would be happier; but as with all
our constant friction our passion seems to become the
stronger—l love you immeasureably more than I did
when I courted you—l feel that the dawning of each
day, while it throws open a new treasury of affection,
in the same moment widens the current of bitternesses
that divides while uniting us. Men say 1 have insight,
but the reason of this severance in regard, this love in
hatred, defies attempts to discover it. All I know is, that,
while at all times your mere presence is a delight to me,
there are frequent moments when your voice is a blow,
your manner, even your caress, an outrage. Never
otherwise than loving and tender ; ever anxious to under-
stand me and to forestall my wants, there is in you some
fatal element of incapacity ; or, in myself, some dreadful
unreasonableness, some terrible craving that has its roots
in brutal perversity. And so, dearest, I think it best to
spoil your life no longer. The fault is not yours - but in
me—or the perverse nature of things. You will find my
poor affairs in order—my insurance policy is indefeasible,
even by suicide. And others beside you know that I am
a chloral drinker. The empty bottle, following upon an
excited night in Parliament, will be sufficient explanation
to the world. When you wake in the early morning and
miss me from your side, you will come down to the Den
and find this in my hand. Keep it to yourself, beloved—
and the sole explanation the world will receive will be
“an overdose of chloral.” To-morrow the town will give
a start of mild surprise—and in the next moment, forget
“ the rising public man.” Do you, sweetheart, forget
me, if not as soon, at least soon.— E.
“Here, then, gentlemen, we have an explanation
of Mr. Baird’s death—we cannot yet say whether
it is the true explanation. I now turn to the letter
found according to the witness Marson by the
dead lady’s bedside. This, unlike the other, is
enclosed in an envelope which I open. It runs
so :
10 o’clock.
My Darling Husband, —It was borne in upon me to-
night, after our difference at the dinner-table, that the
one way open to me to prove my love is, dear, to leave
you free to obey the impulse of your great talents. On
all hands I hear you spoken of with admiration, and the
very strength of the criticism you and your speeches call
forth, I am told, is a tribute to your prowess, though the
bitter words pain me like a blow. And it is this that con-
vinces me I should leave you. If 1 were cleverer or wiser
1 should, perhaps, understand better how it is, and why
it is, you are both praised and censured. But being what
I am, only a simple woman, who has no power but that
of loving, while I gloat over the praise, I resent the cen-
sure, and I feel it so. It must be one of those things
which you so often tell me I can’t understand. And it
seems to me, dearest, that is the root of all our discord—
that I can’t understand you, or your motives, or your
methods of work. I strive honestly to do so—l read, and
I try to think, but 1 cannot, do what 1 will, feel an inter-
est in these political things which interest you and fas-
cinate you. I would not for a moment suggest you are
wrong, but sometimes I fancy you do not see the differ-
ence between a man who has countless interests outside
of his home and a woman who has none. lam only a
woman, who can’t do anything except love, and pray, and
keep house, things with which men have no sympathy
that lasts long. Not that your love has faded, dearest.
No, no 1 1 am going into the Dark—but it is not dark
utterly, for your love is so strong that it will light me
across the grave. What I mean is that, to me, love is
supreme ; to you, your ambition is the one thing which
you would not part with. . . . But why should 1 write
thus? I don’t know—except it is—oh, dear, this heart
that will not beat much longer, yet beats quicker at the
thought?—that my words may induce you to make sure
of yourself, and of her, should you take another wife to


Pure, Economical. Refreshing.
“The Typical Cocoa of English
Manufacture—Absolutely Pure.**
—The Analyst.
“We have examined the samples
brought under our notice and find
that they are genuine, and that the
Cocoa Essence is just what it is de-
clared to be by Cadbury Brothers.”
—Lancet
NO CHEMICALS USED
(As in many of the so-called Pure Foreign Cocoas).
I
mi,
«
V’l
*<r
•o
o
CD
a
o
p
o
S'
O
m
uiilljl
3$
your home! Dearest, let her understand you—or, at
least, do you understand her I Bind not another weak-
ling to your strength, no other poor, ignorant soul with
no talent but that of loving to your greatness. Heaven
knows that I have striven to be worthy of you—to bring
myself to the level of your judgment 1 Yet, that I have
failed /know. You bade me be honest always—never to
affect a knowledge that I had not. Well, I’ve been that —
I have confessed my ignorance—and when you have not
burst out with your proper contempt, you yet—l know,
suffered the more acutely from pity for my silliness.
And so, dear, thinking this way, I will no longer bar
the way to your ascent. If I had brains, they should be
as wings to your ambition ; and I hug this thought to my
heart that my love can do for you what my intellect
cannot. For it is my love that prompts me to die for
you, dearest, dearest husband. It is my love that bids
me lay my life at the feet of your fame.—God be with you
ever, Felicia.
“ That is the poor lady’s letter, gentlemen——”
“There is a postscript over the page, sir !” said
a juryman.
“Ah ! I did not see that. It completes the
evidence, gentlemen. Listen :
P.S.—I have taken the contents, 11 p.m., of one of your
chloral phials. Say, dearest, that I was in the habit of
taking the drug—only Jane will know that was not so. I
will leave this so that you will see it when you come from
the House. Be sure, dearest, and keep it to yourself.
The world must not know. And you, Ned, you will never
know how much I loved you I—Your F.
“Gentlemen, these letters sadly simplify our
duty.”
“I wish to ask the witness Marson one ques-
tion, Mr. Coroner,” said a juror. The witness was
recalled.
“ Did your master and mistress ever quarrel ?”
“ Mr, and Mrs. Baird never quarrelled outright.
He would say sharp words, but almost instantly
beg her forgiveness.”
“ How—can you remember an instance?”
“One night he was walking up and down the
room, looking as if his thoughts were far away.
She read out to him some paragraph from a paper
—a funny paragraph. He stopped in his walk —
and damned her. Her baby prattle, he said, had
made him lose grip of the finest thoughts he had
had for many-a-day. A few moments later he
craved her pardon.”
‘‘What a pair of fools!” muttered a juryman,
with pendulous fatness of cheeks and white-
vested corpulence of body.
“Fools!” repeated the witness. “Fools!
Who are you to think you understand? Why,
perhaps you thought I was committing perjury
for the love of it, and nob for the love of them !
Fools >”
PRICE WARUNG.
Scorn —The produce of withered lips.
Napoleon, like Goethe, was born in his
mother’s 18th year.
At a recent “ society ” wedding in
Auckland (M.L.) the “bride” said promptly
“ No.” He pa “ remonstrated,” but she still said
“No.” After an adjournment, the clergyman
said that owing to the bride’s indisposition the
wedding would not happen. “Indisposition” is
an excellent word.
A S.M. Herald correspondent notices that
fine, new Bowen (Q.) oranges appear on the tables
of Queensland-trading steamers, but none ever find
their way to Sydney or Brisbane. Bowen is
noted for its fruit, and there is certainly room to
establish a trade between the early Northern
growers and the Southern market; but at present
heavy freight and commission charges kill enter-
prise at the outset.
Skeletons.
( FOR THE BULLETIN .)
What a weird, mysterious-looking object is a
skeleton ! I don’t mean the kind you meet with
in a medico’s surgery, or a public museum, but
the disconnected, discoloured heap of bones across
which a prospector sometimes stumbles in the
gloom of the mighty forest. Not a year passes
but one or two of these mouldering frames are
brought to light. Then a bush coroner and a set
of jurymen assemble and try to find out who it
was and how it died. Their inquiries generally
end in total failure.
Many are lost, more than half are never found.
To note a few cases :
About ten years ago a mannamed Hunkin, travel-
ling to the Mount Victoria goldfields, Tasmania,
was put on the right track by another prospector.
They parted—for ever. Government men and
private parties were scouring the vicinity when a
rumour arose that Hunkin had cleared out to Vic-
toria. Searchers were immediately recalled, and
another ghastly heap will probably be bagged and
inquested some day.
A much longer time ago a married woman left
her home on the N.W. coast of Tasmania. She
never returned. When the search was at its
height, a relative of the lost unfortunate was
heard to remark: “Three days is quite long
enough to look for the old woman.” This
charitable assertion brought in all parties, and
her remains lie awaiting an inquest. Near the
same place a poor little skeleton was found, with
the remains of a child’s braces and some trousers-
buttons close by.
Whilst I was on the West Coast, a surveyor got
dosed at one of the poison-shops called a pub.
The last that was seen of him in a live condition
was one evening when he walked into a pros-
pectors’ camp and stared vacantly at the occu-
pants. They invited him to have a drink of tea ;
but, with a yell, he rushed from them into the
scrub. Many months after some men found a
something sitting on a log, with its feet in the
creek. Higher up, boots were picked up. Then
shirt, pants, waistcoat and hat at intervals.
Curious, isn’t it? —they all strip. A surveyor’s
field-book was found in the coat-pocket.
In the earlier days, a Canadian named Madden
left the Pieman for Mount Bischoff. He was
supposed to have had 80 ounces of gold with him.
He, too, is one of the lost. Afterwards, on a tree
not far from the main track, this legend was
discovered: —“Going North. In good spirits.—
Madden.”
A creeping kind of story hails from Deloraine.
A Mrs. Gleeson wandered forth to look for a cow.
She has not yet returned. Two dogs accompanied
her. One trotted back next day. The other was
absent for a considerable period, and returned
hearty and fat. Perhaps the most satisfactory
course to pursue, in the interests of the bereaved
relatives, would have been to bury the dog.
A friend of mine, pottering about the Western
Tiers, found a skeleton in a small sandstone cave.
It was negligently leaning against the back-wall,
and was a well-preserved structure over six feet
long. The police supposed it to be the remains of
one “Dido,” wanted by the authorities over 25
years ago. Starvation or insanity baulked the
cell of its victim. Numbers more have been
brought in, and they will continue to arrive for
many a long year to come.
But what a wonderful sight it would be were
the Great Invisible Power pleased to inaugurate
a Grand Skeleton Revival. Fancy the old fossils
rising wearily up from behind rotten logs;
from beneath the decayed vegetation; from
the crannies of the rocks and the beds of
the creeks; from the depths of luxuriant
fern-banks and the scarcely trodden mounds
of the button - grass plains ! Fancy them
clattering down the hill-sides, down the rocky
gullies, tottering along the muddy pack-tracks
down to the main roads of life. Some bearing
their lower jaws in their fleshless fists. Others
with bundles of ribs beneath their arms. Here a
feetless image doddering along on stumps. There
a headless monster feeling its way among the tree-
trunks with shaking fingers. Toothless, eyeless,
grinning ghouls, without a rag to cover their
nakedness, creeping to the haunts of men, with a
silent request to be decently planted. A sight to
shock the world—and a rich harvest for the
coroners.
Tas.
C. H. READ.
The “Thirsty Land."
( FOR THE BULLETIN .)
Out from the city when work was slack,
By poverty crushed and by ill-luck banned,
With an empty pocket and burdened back,
He “ tackled the track ” to the Thirsty Land.
Out to the West he went for work,
And never a heart was his to shirk ;
With a strong right arm and a willing hand,
He shouldered his “drum ” to the Thirsty Land.
Back in the city ’mid smoke and din,
With spirit broken and hope grown weak,
A woman sat: and the hand was thin
That brushed the tear from her faded cheek.
With never a friend in that mighty crowd
To whisper of silver behind the cloud,
She plied her thread with a quivering hand,
And prayed for the one in the Thirsty Land.
Over the plains where the shimmering haze
Floated before him along the track,
Scorched by the sweltering noontide blaze,
With blistering feet he tramped “ out back.”
Weary his steps, yet he must not lag,
Scant are the drops in his water-bag;
But he lifted the bag with a trembling hand,
And he drank his last in the Thirsty Land !
Brave was the heart that had struggled on,
And it never “caved ” when the end was near;
But he sank in his tracks when his strength was
gone,
And the crow’s wild call fell on his ear.
Fell on his ear as his blistered eyes
Sightlessly turned to the pitiless skies ;
And his fingers clutched at the burning sand,
As he yielded his life in the Thirsty Land,
Back in the city of smoke and din.
Crushed by a longing that ever is dumb,
The woman waits when the post comes in,
Waits for a letter that never will come.
Feb. 8, ’94.
T.H.W.
Joshua Bros, distil from 250,000 to 300,000
gals, spirit yearly at Melbourne. They annually
export 30,000 to 40,000ga1. brandy.
The Czar witch, the Crown Prince of Italy,
the King of Servia and the heirs-apparent of
Belgium, Austria and Montenegro all want to
marry and can’t, because of a shortage in available
Princesses. What’s the matter with the ballet ?
Sheep shearing in Argentina is paid at
the rate of from 7s. to 10s. per hundred.
Dear Bulletin, —Yes, The Bulletin, of
all journals issued in Australasia, is the one most
frequently remailed from one reader to another.
It is also more frequently stolen in transit than
any other paper. My news-agent’s account for
1893 requests me to pay for eight copies which
have been reordered to replace missing numbers.
I get a few other papers which come regularly
enough. It is The Bulletin alone for which I
have to suffer. — Waihoa, Maoriland.
The unceremonious and unfeeling style in
which only too many Australian capitalists, in-
cluding the N.S.W. Pastoralists’ Union, are
cutting down their employes’ wages on the “ take
it or leave it ” principle, recalls nothing so mueh
as the way in which the Army Hospital orderly
soothed the dying moments of the poor soldier
left to his tender mercies. “’Opkins,” sez I,
“ you’re mortal bad.” ‘‘l am,” sez ’e. “’Op-
kins,” sez I, “ I don’t think you’ll get better.”
“No,” sez ’e. “’Opkins,” sez I, “ you’re going
fast.” “Yes,” sez ’e. “’Opkins,” sez I, “I
don’t think you can hope to go to ’eaven.” “ I
don’t think I can,” sez ’e. “Well, then, ’Opkins,”
sez I, “you’ll go to ’ell.” “I hope so,” sez *e.
“ ’Opkins,” sez I, “you ought to be werry grate-
ful as there’s a place perwided for you, and that
you’ve got somewhere to go. Then ’e died.”
A Maoriland teetotal potentate, just re-
turned to Christchurch after a long journey, gives
his experiences :
I arrived at my first “Temperance Restaurant ” at 7.30
p.m., after a long, wet journey. I was received by a
voluminous female, wearing a blue ribbon and a heavy
scowl. “Can I have some tea?” I asked. No, I could
not have tea at that time of night. “ Can my clothes be
dried?” No, they could not; the fire was out. So I
crawled up to bed and hung my damp garments on the
back of the only chair in the place. I thought I would
have a drink of water before turning in, but there was
no water-bottle in the room, and the fluid in my ewer
looked pea-soupy. At the second “ Temperance Hotel,'*
which I struck on the following evening, the feeding was
dirty, the hash full of the landlady’s red hair, the air of
the proprietors was haughty and austere, the partitions
of the rooms were thin, the rooms were small, and the
bed and blankets were stained, but there were several
fly-blown texts on the wall, and I was invited to attend
*• family prayers.” After these experiences I sojourned
at seven different hotels where drink was sold. I received
every comfort and attention, was not, as at the last
temperance hotel, kept awake by noisy boys, and, speak-
ing generally, though I detest drink as much as ever, I
trust decent hotels will not be abolished until the pro-
hibitionists have shown that they have some constructive
skill by establishing temperance hotels which are not
outrages upon comfort, cleanliness and decency.’’
Hordern Brothers, 203-11 Pitt-street (only),
Autumn season, 1894. The autumn season has
now set in, and our novelties for the season being
all opened out, we are prepared to give our
numerous customers even greater satisfaction with
our new goods than we have ever given. Our
goods for the autumn season having been person-
ally selected by our home buyer, Mr. E, Carr
Hordern, in the best home and continental
markets, is a certain guarantee of their extra good
quality and economic price. Write to us at once
for a copy of our Fashion Book of Costumes, for
autumn season, 1894. As we give all country
orders our personal attention, our country friends
are assured that their orders will go out the same
day we receive their letters. Parcels of drapery
sent to any part of the colony —free! free!! free!!!
Address your orders to Hordern Brothers, 203-11
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*


“ Men I Have Smiled With.”
E STAY at JB niton’s,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
Hffounsr-r VICTORIA
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms ; and special terras
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Planter Street.
MOSS VALE.
OODRJDGE'S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
Station) is where we always stay.
QUIRINDI.
O’HALLORAN’S TERMINUS HOTEL
Is Tip - Top.
ARM ID ALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
IVCrs. We&cS.o’s
TATTERS ALL'S HOTEL.
The Traveller’s HOME in New England.
Hnnamoo
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of The ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
Eennessfs Queen's Hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
Acknowledged to be the FIRST HOTEL in
Queensland, and patronised by their Excellencies
the Governors of Queensland (Sir H. Norman),
and of N.S. Wales (Lord Jersey).
Blue Mountain Hotel,
Near TOOWOOMBA.
To Meet the Times, the Prices in this POPULAI
SANATORIUM have been Reduced to 42/- pi
Week. FREE use of Buggies and Billiards
Every Comfort as Usual. Conveyance meets
trains at Harlaxton on receipt of Letter.
E. EVBRINGHAM, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW.
THE CLUB HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL in
Queensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
train. Private Suites. George A. Godsall.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino,
GUNNED AH.
CURLEY’S “ROYAL’
Is The Australia of the North-West.
T. CURLEY, Proprietor, and Patentee of
Yoloanic Soda Machines,
MUSWBLLBROOK.
Hullo, here we are, let’s stay at JIM GREEN’S
Hotel.'
—aamw ■»
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney,
S 4 rpALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.’
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
Posted to any Australasian Address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
medical.
IOST POWER REGAINED
"and health restored. v, o ™7 le
HO STOMACH DEUGGIH&.
To® Sl * Stomps-for illustrated treatise on Urethral
keatmest. Every Weak. Nervous and Debili-
, f . Aj ED Man -----
Man should read it. DR.
1 Lollins Street, Melbourne.
CEO. WALSH,
“THE BULLETIN’S”
Missing Word Competition--No. 13.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Saturday, 28th
April, 1894. J
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
The Bulletin's 19 Missing Word Competition Coupon* —No* 13.
x x
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or IS penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Saturday, 28th April, 1894.
The Wyakmg gold discoveries, following on those at Coolgardie, the Mur-
chison, and elsewhere, have given Australia a lift which was never more badly
wanted. Some of these finds may prove only a repetition of the
delusion of Kimberley, but some, at all events, are genuine, and will do much
good to this distressful country.
Name
A ddress
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received —no deduction whatever being made. Should there he more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained on this coupon.
Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper.
Bulletin ” Series, KTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
SECOaSTjD EDITIOIT
OF
,C A Golden Shanty”;
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Pi ice, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“ Bulletin ” Series, KTo. 3.
“The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note hy Rolf Boldrewood.
Opinions of Press :
The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, i The JLast of Six,’ though in point of merit thev nil n m
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and tL nafh.]^- 1 °n a P f' The
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chanter and wrtT ln , theBe farawa y
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”—S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893. y pter ’ and tor those wll ° are fond of
“No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc and the •
he has, by many years experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possess?! ’hv t«v T * of £hl3 18 that
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the ?torie^X^?ti o f y a * y ofcher writer,
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain. ’’—Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893? ' ° u dei notlce he has given us some of
“ They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from long contact nnfl lam
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power of Stnkll)g Pictures of
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely m ? ' T lT as ( ha 2 p S n V 1 wild P lace «
tale of cannibalism treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and l3 a terrible
thrilling interest. ‘The Haunt of the Jinkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitator? S Favenc makes of
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, in which Mr w 18 ltsel£ relieved from the
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘ Spirit Led,’ which the great American might have written 'TpI /pT; approaches Poe. This
Xim. CoHeCtion that Sh ° Uld WMely aM WhiCh f ° rmS a W ° rthy addition t 0 .Purely AustrtSuter^^DA^T
Newspaper Co
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


3V3C X "JC O 3E3C JES JLm X« 9 S
—CELEBRATED—
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS—
Fleas, Flies, Hugs, Mosquitoes, Cod,-roaches,
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer !!, T. BELLEMEY, Chemist,
151 Kino Street, SYDNEY (late Rigney’s).
Tins, 1 ; Boxes, 1/6. On receipt of stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1/9.
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT—
JAMES STEDM AIM
IS THE
Bole M:a>ixi^facturer
OF THE
CELEBRATED
“LION"
TRADE
BRAND
Confectionery .
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coflee Palace).
fJIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM-
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
The IMPERIAL HOTEL,
WYMYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
(Established over Thirty Years).
The most Homely, Comfortable and. Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tariff. 10s. (id. per Day, Walter si dney, Manager.
GROSVENOR HOTEL,
SYDKTEY.
FirstMdass Accommodation* Tariff from 10s* Sd* per Day*
VISITORS CAN AVAIL THEMSELVES OP THE SEPARATE TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM, 4s. - - DOUBLE ROOM, Bs.
Scale or Advertising
—IN—
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
“TALES
—OF THE—
SYSTEM.’’
JBy “ Price Waning, ”
tei Is. ji: Fist, Is. 31
EPPS’S
GEATEFUL—OOMFOETDJG
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD and ICE COMPANY (Limited)
-FOR-
GOLDEN STAR.”
In One Found, or Half-pound Fata.
The CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured by this Co. is unequalled in Australasia. Brand
The Awards at the recent Royal Agricultural Show (21st March) were for :
BUTTER* (N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.) —First Prize for ONE CASE, not less than 50lb. weight, for Export.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.—First Prize for CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured for local consumption
Tlb-e
for Creaineiy DBio-ttex
Thus the S.M. Herald of 22nd March : “ The principal feature of this year’s Show of these products was the excellent quality of this butter."
Butter forwarded to all parts of City, Suburbs & Country
Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney. H. PATESON, Manager. I
HUPP!
Visit
ARK FOY’S,
Oxford Street (hydb paek), Sydney.
SILKS
SATINS
PLUSHES
SERGES
CLOTHS
MILLINERY
BOOTS
SHOES
GLOYES
A journey to the Ladies’ Rendezvous will amply
repay you, and prove
A GOOD IDEA!
Mark Foy, Oxford Street, Sydney.
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney,
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case. Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
Board and Residence at Moderate Charges,
Every Modern Convenience, including' Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders,
■1
m
■
m
IN CL US lEE or S ETA I! ITE TA 7? I EE. A S T) ESI II ED.
Luncheon, d la Carte, from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D'llote, „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s.
43T Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may always rely upon
getting a First-class Meal.
«J. CUHTIM, Proprietor,
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
