

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
R. G. WATKINS «SC- CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
r-j
A
ZXJ
o O V,|
<Rac(aJocK>
y © c <v
o
V
O'
K. A. Hervcy, Agent, 28 I’ltl-ht., Sy .ney.
W. H. SIMPSON Sc SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl o! Jersf,y,
Lord Cari.vgton, etc.,
385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY. HARNESS,
TRAVELLING and HAND BAGS, etc-
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
rx
2
o Rjl
A
tKs
foJIS
fH*
i-9
*
5
Sydney
Oxford Hotel,
“3? lies
te3"t3C*€3
King
H. THORPE
PbOX’RIETOB.
By Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
Duff, K.C.M.G.
'-THE-,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.
(LIMITED)
FOB,
MILK ..
CREAM ..
ICE
BUTTER
FISH
CAME
POULTRY
PASTRY, Ai . ..
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
H. PATESOY,
Sydney, Ist July, 1893. Manager.
í
&3010 ixx 3XT«b-w South. "W'aJLes for Messrs. Clayton and Siiuttlewortlx.
- - f >.v
Howard's Digging Ploughs.
In 1, 2 and 3 Furrow.
In HANDLE. ORDINARY STEERAGE.
GOVERNOR STEERAOE or GANG.
Filled with Reversible I’oinled Shares.
Winner of late Intercolonial Match.
CIAV.T OfQ SHUri U* WIH UVtOlhV'
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
t y,/. ■ -
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
V
Howard's Plows.
1 to (» Furrow.
In Stock—PLOUGHS for GARDEN,
ORCHARD, FARM or STATION.
HARROWS, CHAFFCUTTERS,
HORSE GEARS, DISC HARROWS.
Implements for all Seasons or the Year.
electpj
C LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. &sr
T. & O. Howard., 2SOj
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 11 -No. 730. j
[Saturday, February 10, 1894
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Medical.
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANGIPANNE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPHANOTIS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION !—Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Rose ” ,
bs and address in lull. jj!S
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
JET STEELE’S GALVANIC
GENT’S BEV-I
ELECTRIC BELTS *ffi»
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, rheuma-
tism, sciatica, neuralgia, lumbago, gout, indigestion,
liver disease, &c. STEELE’S BELTS forwarded imme-
diately upon receipt of £2—registered letter, post-order,
or cheque. When ordering Belts, send waist measure
above the hips.
iSL. R. Gregory,
Minerva Chambers,
126 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS
TP
4>.
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
ts a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
goon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
af the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
he found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Puls
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «■ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkkcham s I COUCH
Pili-s a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), and at
Bs. 9d. (treble quantity). ~ , _ .
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
svervwhere.
N.8.-—Full directions are given with each box.
ales of the convict system.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
/?.
m
?s,
iVi
m
A WORSE SPEC.
Paeson : “Ah! my dear sir, there is no more dangerous and unprofitable practice
than that of backing horses.”
Jones ( feelingly) : “Isn’t there though? Try backing bills.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Brighton of New Boutli Wales.
A most Comfortable,High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms) Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Eishmg Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. OKIinL.IVEXDNrSTIESK.
trade: mark
REGISTERED
494
WATCHMAKER, JEWELI.KR, and OCULIST OPTICIAN,
G-EOBGE STREET, SYDNEY
TTAS lust received a NEW STOCK of reliable Gold and Silver W niche*, Jewellery, Gold and Steel
H J Spectacle», suitable for Christmas Presents and New Years Gifts.
REAL BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4,6 per Pair. Complete Price-list forwarded on Application.
Medical.
The First Step
FOK
NERVOUS MEN
m- APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PEEET,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” — Chas. H. Piessb,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., E.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL EOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Free Prescriptions
Are. to be found in the "Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILI I V and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
70 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH,
Price 9s. tid.
i
ì
£OS-X Z'.’G'OOXr
llENßYH^nfll
MABf
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Os. BH.
A Splendid list) n r Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier-
They fall into two or three ndgligd shapes at the will ot
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this wu
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest fed ec
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet,
O-. HEX- SMITBC & SOW-
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. __
MANHOO I>;
HEALTH . STRENGTH AM) VIGOR RESTORE i
In Four // 'eeks by the use of
RK CORD’s
i V F R •
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBTLI . O;
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Uicnrd s Essence of Life mtorcs Health ana
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated roust it utt ••
regenerating all the important elemen ts oj the human
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for ,"6». Frei3
extra. Pamphlets free, on receipt of stamped addtesse
7 Agents for A ustraXaeiar-Perry <t Co., 73 Gertrud* M
Street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney-
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMKNL
There is not a country in the civilised worm '
the healing virtuesof thes re grand medicines have no*
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the 01 \‘ ce
ailments of humanity their beneficent action 18 ‘ . u9O
recognised. Fullestdiwtlom* BU |R l ‘ e^/ I o F y h M an«'
in every disease. II YOU SUFFER, TRY p U f
factured only at 78 Nrw Oxforp-st., London. I* p ot 3.
chasers should look to the Label on the_ Boxes i a
If (headdress is not 628 Oxford-street, London,
suurious
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nouparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Kepublican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clabns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
ThE’ Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushraan of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maori land
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
Will!AM Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi.
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical.
112 PHILLIP ST SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine Sc Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College, in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
“NERVOUS 4. SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions: —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Pee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vin&3 will, on receipt of £X !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Yin6s with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant iny feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
X CLarge NT otHlng
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should writs to Dr. J. Yin6s for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Hours of Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address ail communications /
Dr. JECKEDL -VIKTES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Business Announcements.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR-
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We alwa.vs have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair _ chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
VVIIQI i; OIL. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY TUBE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
BRICE-Is. ; Per POST. Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Oentrally-
situafced
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOIXTS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as -a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
■sroxjiKra- cqwcskt
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
i-ound a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart ; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood }
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &0., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORE,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbous will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIIi,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed, by Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Sydney
{Two doors from JUnrleet-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
“£he Sydney -Coffee (Palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domnin, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF. . DESCRIFTIVE.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 80s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botaitical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Business Announcement.
53
TEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W. G- IBLIDIBIIDGKEI] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders hy post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
£1 Fer Acre. £1
Ho Rents! Ho Landlords!
Your Own Some!
/# /Y ACRES of Good, Fertile Land, within
V/ e asy distance of Sydney, at >£l per acre,
upon terms of JEB Cash, down, and the balance
may remain, if desired, 32 years at 4 per cent,
interest. Full information on application to
(§rank <H. (Beckmann,
21 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
3NTo Cure, 3XT o , 3E* ay.
FTTFTTtt
fi/}/y p oS?PRv
PELT
rnIHS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
T cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency.
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
i
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from all parts of the ■world and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’*
■Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Read the letters:
I From Australia.
I Mr. W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W„ writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul h Uo., (Agents for Dr.
■ Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
gay that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebeltassoonasit is placed on his body, for I feltthe effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mb. Ohas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaksas follows; “I can say that I have felt bettor, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” From America .
Mb. J. W. Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A„ writes—“ Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got up as i f nothing had happened, the back
troubled me ever since until I tried your belt. Foroneyear
now I have felt as I used to at so."
ITS-Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts.
Call, or write forfree descriptive ‘‘Pamphlet No. 2, and
please mention this paper when you address: W. H. boul&Co.,
158 Pitt St., Sydney; Elliott Bros., Brisbane; or, the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San Ebanoisco, U. S. A.
MANHOOD.
Debility, Weakness, Prostration f &c., from Folly
or any Cause. Guaranteed (lave. Treatise posted
FK.EE, sealed. Write. Prof. Kobt. Herman, French
Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELBOURNE.
Publications.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & GO.,
Itetail lioohaellers and Stationers,
863 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEW SERIAL VOLUMES.
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS CARDS.
ì
VvHAtj
cjpip
«!2t
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Unsli for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by 6.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4 - Private Companion for Married
People ; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Bejant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 16. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
‘ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
i
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, i£s2 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked .to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
MESSAGERIES_MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON ; £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC PILLS.—For General Debility,
Weakness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseurs,
M.D., Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in
the world.) Electric Pills are the most speedy
and most powerful remedy in the world. One
box will be sufficient, and in even the weakest, the
oldest, and most shattered, work a miracle, while
perfectly harmless, leaving no bad after effects.
Guaranteed Never to Fail, Worth their weight in
gold. Price, 10s. 6d., post free, from the sole
agent, W. PARSONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke-street
east, Melbourne.


Petty's Family Hotel* Sydney*
WYWYARD SQUARE;
Is UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Large, well-ventilated Hedrooms.
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladies'& Gentlemen’s Dining & Drawing Dooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’Hote as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
Business I Announcements*
Ii'ANUFAtTIfRI
mercer^
fi
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at once
PROCIiAIM
THB
MAN-
T
HEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
World-renowned !
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses;—
43S GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s.,
ANB 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
i
Sim& est
o.S'SEST
©O/VIKS
maehine
!S«Y/°RH3
Before purchasing any other
sknd for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
&
hsh
.f.ty|otinston&Co-,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
► 67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
HJ
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 13/6 each ; Plainer Finish,
7/6 each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Awarded FIRST PRIZE by Royal Agri-
cultural Society.
■w. Jno.
Balter, Cutler, 3 Huntei —at., Sydney
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
T limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SIDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, G-aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tsr Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain oversoo Apart-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, 6rc., are easy 0/ access.
HOTEL
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. %
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
A. IVT ERIOAKT
Eliijn National Watch Co.
V ' ■J ,AA -»■ JU ■
AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS, HIGHEST AWARD MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1888.
Testing of Watches at the Melbourne Observatory for Awards, Centennial International
Exhibition, ISBB.
The AMERICAN ELGIN NATIONAL WATCH COMPANY scored the highest number of marks for general
excellence of manufacture, having obtained 366 points out of a possible 400. Rotherhams and Sons obtained 343
points out of a possible 400.
Dec. 21st, 1888. R. L. J. ELLERY, F.R.S., Government Astronomer.
“The American Elgin National Watch Company and Messrs. Rotherhams and Sons entered into a Time Test
Competition with a number of their exhibited Watches. The tim ■ test was made at the Observatory, where the
watches were under trial for sixteen days in the several positions, and the Elgin Watch Company obtained for time-
keeping 27-5 marks, against 21-7 of the best Rotherhams and Sons. It is recommended that both exhibits get a First
a ward and th<> Elqin Watch Company get an extra First-class Award for having obtained the victory in the time tests.
auaro. am. * “ R . l. ELLERY, F.R.S., Chairman.”
It must be borne in mind that the Elgin Watches which obtained the highest, number of marks for time-keep-
ing were of the Sixth Grade (B. W. Raymond), and that the Rotherhams and Sons’ Watches were of their first quality'
and had been specially rated and tested at the Kew Observatory, London, before being sent to the Melb. Exhibition.
DOKTA-X.O IkflrAKrSOlNr a, n cl CO.,
Soi/e and General Agents for India, China, Japan, and all the Colonies of Australia, for the
CELEBRATED AMERICAN ELGIN COLD MEDAL WATCHES.
The Best Timekeepers in the World.
OFFICES
I lgin Building, SYDNEY ; St. James’ Buildings, MELBOURNE.
Elgin Watches are made on the Interchangeable principle, so that should any part become damaged or worn
n facsimile’ca,n be obtained to replace the broken part, and at a trifling cost, at the Company’s Office,
V y .yard Square, SYDNEY.
Medical.
Beetn Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
*
IS
ABSOLUTELY
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, *•.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELD.HEIM, GOTTHELF 4 CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON £c CO., Sydney
MASSEY & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY. YOUNG. N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
TAYBOR BROS.,
248 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ORIGINAL and SOLE
MANUFACTURERS
St
=c
OP THE
Celebrated NEEDLE WOOD PIPES
State Shape when ordering.
Silver-mounted and Vulcanite Stems.
Trices: 4/6 5/6 6/6 7/6
NEEDLE WOOD is vastly superior to any-
thing yet discovered.
Taylor Bros, are prepared to return the money
to any gentleman who, on trial of Needle Wood
Pipe, can conscientiously declare that it is not the
Best, Sweetest, Coolest and Dryest Pipe he ever
smoked. This is the opinion of every purchaser
so far.
Pipes sent to any part of the world (post free)
j on receipt of Postal Order for the above amount.
4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
Fob Cash.
4s. in the £ 4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
For Cash.
DISCOUNT
Fob Cash.
STATIONERS’ HALL 0 0.
O (C. E. FULLER & CO.)
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d.
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, good quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good quality, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.
OFFICE APRON FILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each.
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographlc Pens, 2s. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from 3Jd., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, Moro. Leather, from 6d.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONERS’ HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
885 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
ì
banking;
-THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
.. £900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of . Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour*
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
rnHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £300,000
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. ... 23,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES,
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Salt)
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
Medical.
Teeth.— a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
TVR. HACKETT writes : “ The London
±J Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours; from 9 a.m. to 6 p.nr
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the years you’ve lived. Write. Prof. HER
MANN, French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELB.
ì
Why he without a Windmill
When you can “HARNESS THE WIND” with one of our
Solid Steel Aermotor Self-Regulating' and Storm-
Defying WINDMILLS, and at once have an untiring
servant that will do your work either day or night?
This wonderful
WINDMILL
is about
THAN ANY OTHER
50
Per Cent, more POWERFUL’
BESIDES BEING
Per Cent. CHEAPER,
WINDMILL in EXISTENCE.
Our Bft. Mill at .£l2 10s. is equal to other makes of 12ft.
Our 12ft. Mill at £2O is equal to other makes of 16ft.
And our Catalogue explains the reason why. Let us send
you one— free by post.
OUR SPECIALTY
—is—
(Agricultural & <§airy (Machines & (Implements
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION,
So, if you have a FARM, ORCHARD, DAIRY, VINE-
YARD, or grow any kind of crops, we are the people you
want to see or write to.
PUMPS
—oi> ,u -
Every Size,
Every Styl°
and for
Every Purpose-
SjAMES MARTIN A CO ■ , Clnrrnrt SlroftM,
SYDNEY.
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
We are
the Originators of the famous SCOTCH and WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED SUITS
TO MEASURE at 45/- TROUSERS, 12/6.
BOUND CORKSCREW SUITS, 50- .. .. TROUSERS. 16, 6
The FINEST QUALITY in SERGES from 50 - .. TROUSERS, 15/-
jgfT- Country Customers please WRITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SERF'-MEASUREMENT FORMS.
LONDON A MELBOURNE TAILORING CO., :tt Erskine Street.
S. M. BAUM ASHE, MANAGER.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vel. 14—Ho. 730.
SATU KDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1894.
Price, od.
A
IN HE ARMING THE POLICE. —A FEW PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly .. 0126^
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added, where required,
which yon may .pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Bulletin j osted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. Tn that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom ice do notudsh
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully rend and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed .
Bat we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for'the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
ifter the arrival off each mall, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Elect Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: - if. A. Thompson and Co., 2 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria. Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence off the imposition off One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1894.
The Advertising Saint.
The capture of Jabez Balfour at Salta
(South America) is another evidence that the
world is growing very small for the fugitive
who is too brief in the legs to run. That
the Argentine Government would surrender
Jabez under sufficient moral pressure was
always a matter of comparative certainty,
and though the legal question of his extra-
dition is not yet officially decided there is no
real doubt that Britain can have him if it
only wants him badly enough. The relative
size of the two States is partly, but not
wholly, responsible for this circumstance ;
nowadays, even the biggest State on earth
will generally surrender a notorious offender
at the demand of a very small one if the
small State is only sufficiently in earnest.
The criminal who gets away is the one who
can turn miner, soldier, swagsman, pioneer,
gaucho, anything, in fact, and thus get lost
in the crowd ; for the bloated malefactor
who is slow and luxurious and a heavy feeder,
and who travels ponderously with all his
fixtures, fittings and utensils, this world has
grown very small.
# # #
Jabez Balfour is the typical British
swindler of the century. He is remembered
in England as a thick, gorged, bloated
monstrosity, squat, rotund, wallowsome and
flat-footed. Yet England believed in him
with a profound and childlike faith. He
was obtrusively and aggressively pious, and
though his coarse and pimpled visage was a
visible warning to everyone who saw him,
the Anglo-Saxon’s immoveable trust in
broadcloth and snuffle overcame all those
disadvantages. The Anglo-Saxon is not
more religious than any other man, but his
belief in the thick and loathsome species of
piety is immeasurable. Every great and
utterly heartless swindler of recent years, in
every land where the bulk of the population
is of British descent, has been glaringly
and horribly pious. Every broken bank
and every broken boom is a monument to
many pillars of the Church who have
gone off with the cash. Wherever a
huge and utterly callous fraud has been
perpetrated under peculiarly revolting cir-
cumstances, the little, round, fat, oily man o
God has been the person immediately re
sponsible. Yet the dull, reverent, solemn,
multitudinous public is waiting as anxiously
to-day to be swindled by the same old type
of greasy saint as ever it was. Jabez Bal-
four perpetrated the biggest one-man fraud
which has been done in England this
century. And the next biggest fraud will be
perpetrated by a man of the same order, and
his opportunity will arise simply because of
England’s blind faith in that variety of
pietist who is thick, and aggressive, and
carbuncled, and perspiring, and whose
fervour is evidenced by the grease on his
hat-band and the manner in which his
superfluous flesh hangs out over his collar.
# * •
Australia has inherited from its British
ancestors their profound reverence for snuffle
in all its aspects, but especially for snuffle
that is associated with fat and intense gravity.
Nearly every fraudulent balance-sheet among
the multitudinous swindles which made up
the deceased boom was attested by the signa-
tures of at least two saints of the most un-
mitigated respectability. Nearly everybody
who paid 6d. in the £ under specially offen-
sive circumstances was an aggressive re-
ligionist who was understood to be permeated
with a profound consciousness of sin. The
financiers who are in gaol were all, without
exception, obtrusively pious, and the finan-
ciers who most distinctly ought to be there
are mostly of the same order. Matthias
Larkin was the Jabez Balfour of Aus-
tralia, only with limited opportunities and a
smaller capital to embezzle ; and, needless to
say, he went to church every morning. Yet
Australia, being filled with J. Bull’s rever-
ence for the garish description of piety, has
taken no warning from Larkin and his kind.
Its favourite remedy for the evils under
which it is suffering is to fill the Legislatures
with more advertising religionists, and all
over the country associations are being
formed to secure the return to Parliament of
large, serious, heavy-footed men of much
substance and “ sound Christian principles.”
The fact that there is something radically
the grim and serious and loud-
mouthed species of piety is a matter which is
beyond the range of the good, old Anglo-
Australian intelligence.
* • *
The history of the whole race of pietists,
in whom the aggregate Briton and his heirs
and collaterals put their faith with such
disastrous results, is a solemn warning. It
is a warning against the moralist who
preaches, and runs Sunday-schools, and
founds soup-kitchens, and subscribes to
churches and public charities and other
things which get his name in the papers, and
who holds forth with much unction at public
meetings, and booms Social Gimlet Societies,
and lays foundation-stones, and sends out
missionaries, and is concerned about the
state of the heathen, and otherwise becomes
famous for confirmed and unpleasant good-
ness. The person whose piety is of any real
account is unobtrusive, because his creed
teaches him his own worthlessness, and
poor, because the rich man doesn’t enter the
kingdom of heaven ; and, being almost abso-
lutely unknown, he can’t well be elected to
any public office on account of his piety.
And the moralist who is sufficiently known
to be run for Parliament on the religious
ticket, and to found banks and conduct
great financial operations on the strength of
his morality, is bogus every time. The
fact that his piety is widely known is
sufficient evidence that he has none.
Therefore the leagues for the return
of strictly religious candidates to the
Legislature are merely societies for the
booming of representative hypocrites, and
the bank which is run by men of high
religious standing is a thing to be avoided
like a pestilence, and the conspicuous saint
who is entrusted with other people’s money
is a person to be arrested on suspicion with-
out further evidence. The real saint is the
one whose saintliness is almost entirely un-
known, consequently the only hope of estab-
lishing a religious Legislature lies in select-
ing candidates who have shown no signs of
public holiness. Even the candidate who is
reasonably suspected of hidden piety is a
person to be viewed with suspicion, and the
person who is convicted of being religious
in secret is to be avoided on the ground that
the circumstance probably transpired through
a carefully pre-arranged accident, for pur-
poses of advertisement.
* * *
The faith of the British public in gaudy
humility, and the kind of holiness whose out-
ward symbol is an unwholesome cuticle and
a large and greasy appetite, is so far-reaching
that Jabez Balfour might, had he pleased,
been an honoured snufflubuster to the end of
his days. If he had not been afflicted with a
yearning to annex the last cent of the funds
of his melancholy depositors, and to build an
overgrown palace in Argentina, and to run a
harem and wallow in barbaric luxury, there
was no earthly reason why he should not
have lived and died, and had a huge monu-
ment over his bones after death, as a revered
apostle and a pillar of the tabernacle. The
Briton’s trust in the saintly financier is of
such a comprehensive order that Jabez
Balfour might have annexed three millions
out of the Liberator funds with impunity,
and still been audited and found correct
every year with unfailing regularity ; it was
his craving to steal the whole available seven
millions or so, and leave nothing behind him
but a used postage-stamp and a memory,
which was his undoing. The credulity of the
snufflesome Anglo-Saxon is an unfathomable
quantity, and the man who appeals to the
British public in the name of the Lord
seldom appeals in vain. Nobody ever audits
the saint carefully-simply because he
■ . iii • i
is a saint, and nobody ever seriously
suspects him until he is in gabl.
Consequently, though the aggressive saint
who is exposed when it is too late is a
numerous philanthropist and a lesson to the
community, the one who is not exposed at
all is a still more direful portent, and a more
serious warning that his race should be
trusted under no possible circumstances
whatsoever. The typical good man of com-
merce need never be found out in
this trustful world of snuffle except
i , . 1
under the most aggravated circumstances,
r . . , , . ’
therefore the frequency with which he is
found out only proves that he isn t found
out nearly so frequently as he ought to be.
Even if the advertising apostle whose bank
has broken under disgraceful conditions were
absolutely non - existent, the advertising
apostle whose bank isn’t broken would be a
sufficient reason why no one should put
faith in his kind, either now or hereafter.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Arming the Police.
The recent sensational burglary at the Sydney
office of the Union S.S. Co., and the troubles
of the two policemen who were partially brained
during the unpleasantness which ensued, and
the heroism of the third one who chased the
flying burglars until his yells brought a whole
police-station down on them, and the Homeric
conflict in which the malefactors were ulti-
mately captured after seriously biting the
“ force ” —all these things have aroused, in its
most virulent form, the old question of arming
the police. Whenever a serious disagreement
connected with property eventuates, in which a
constable gets injured, the demand arises that
the force should carry a big revolver apiece.
The general impression seems to be that it is
possible to make a policeman impregnable, and
to so fix him up that no possible risk or chance
or mishap can enter into his profession ; it is all
a matter of carrying enough arms, and if the
revolver is introduced and doesn’t prove suffi-
cient then the peace officer will have to take to
dynamite instead. There is a dismal want
of logic about this revolver theory, but the
public is in temporary hysterics and has no
logic about it. In the recent burglary case
the malefactors were armed with jemmies and
the police carried batons —a baton-blow, though
its effects may not be so deadly, will lay a man
out, just as well as a blow from a jemmy—only
the burglars hit first. If the police habitually
carried fire-arms, then the burglars would do
likewise, and, in the present instance, they
would have shot first instead. When the police-
man armed with a baton gets near enough his
prey to arrest him, he is always liable to be
floored with a crowbar, and the policeman
armed with a revolver is equally liable to be
bowled over at the same short range. There-
fore, unless the armed officer is to habitually
shoot the supposed malefactor at sight, without
even getting near enough to make reasonably
sure that he is a malefactor, the revolver, in
such a case as the one under discussion, makes
no earthly difference. When the force begins
to carry firearms, the criminal will, of necessity,
do likewise. When the two meet in the dark,
the criminal usually knows that his antagonist
is a policeman by his uniform, but the police-
man doesn’t know for certain, without close
inspection, that the other party is a crimi-
nal. Therefore, when long-range weapons are
introduced, the burglar, for a time at least, will
nearly always get the first shot. By-and-bye,
however, the policeman will get tired of being
shot at, and will begin to take the first shot him-
self ; and as his opponent isn’t distinguished by a
uniform lie will shoot the wrong man as often
as the right one. Presently, too, as dead men
tell no tales, the brutal or unscrupulous or
drunken “cop” will find it convenient, when
he makes a bad mistake, to shoot the other
man, and explain afterwards how the homicide
was done in self-defence, when he was assaulted
by the deceased and ten ferocious accomplices.
The conscientious officer will be shot because
some reckless criminal will get the drop on him
Avhile he is trying to find out whether the
person in question is a criminal or not ; and
the other kind of officer will bring in the corpse
of some harmless citizen whom he shot because
he saw him afar off late at night, and thought
he might be going to shoot. Also, there
will be a considerable increase in police
suicides through the means of suicide
being always handy, and possibly a certain
mortality through the officer “not knowing
it was loaded.” The whole revolver theory
rests on a false basis. What is wanted is more
policemen—two or three times more policemen
at the lowest estimate—to grapple with the
criminal near at hand and bring him in for trial;
not a few officers with elaborate facilities for
shooting the just and the unjust promiscuously
at long range, and dragging their remains to
head-quarters in- an ambulance. If Australia
would sell a lob of its useless military gorgeous-
ness, and invest the proceeds in policemen, it
would solve the larrikin and burglar problem
faster than in any other way.
Meat Mania.
On the subject,of frozen meat Victoria is, for
the moment, as mad as the King of Bavaria.
People speak m “ up-country ” as a place over-
run by billtoj&j.of bullocks waiting to be killed
and chilled and packed off to foreign parts
where meat is the one thing wanted. They
talk also of “ our butter ” and “ our cheese ” in
a strain quite out of harmony with the local
supply of cows, but these dairy industries pale
before the magnificent possibilities of frozen
meat. Victoria, according to the popular cant,
is about to become bloatedly prosperous by
shipping “great masses of food” (at bjd. a lb.
for the producer) to the uttermosU»jmls of the
earth, and the patriotic butcher-Premier will
superintend operations. So awful is this sudden
enthusiasm for the meat trade that even a
time-serving journal like the Age recommends
coolness in Government action as well as for the
carcases of oxen deceased. But, being a reck-
lessly inconsistent rag, the Age makes sug-
gestions in direct opposition to its own shriek*
of a month or two ago. Thus—“lt is more
indirectly rather than directly that the State
can aid the development of a trade which in
the future is surrounded with such grand pos-
sibilities. Low ocean freights, a through rate
from the factories, and proper refrigerating
trucks, for all perishable produce, appear to be
the most urgent requirements.” Although the
first duty of the State was—a few weeks back
—to make the railways pay, the meat trade is
to enjoy a subsidy in the nature of some vague
“ through rate from the factories.” The
refrigerating trucks which, when ordered by
Speight, were lamentable items of extra-
vagance, are now to be bouglrt by the thousand
and run on specially cheap terms. Further-
more, the duty of the State is to procure low
ocean freights—in other words, the shipowning
companies must get from the Government the
amount necessary to bring reduced meat
freights for the shipper up to a pay-
ing standard. Those fixed commercial prin-
ciples to which State railway management
in general is bound by David Syme’s news-
paper, are not, for some unknown reason,
applicable to the frozen meat traffic. And by
indirectly subsidising the businesses of a num-
ber of freezers who, under present conditions,
are already fattening on the beef-grower, Vic-
toria is going to boom again directly. Poor,
swindled, begammoned, bit of Australia ! It
even prattles of shipping frozen eggs (with
State assistance) to London, where eggs (mostly
from Holland) can be bought, year in and year
out, at very little more than they fetch in Mel-
bourne. All the other provision-shipping
countries will stop business, seemingly, in
favour of that remote million of population who
look to Parliament to make a trade.
Joseph of the Orchid.
The other day, in,England, a deputation of
distressed workmen waited on Joseph Cham-
berlain, the heavy renegade with the orchid
in his button-hole, to ask pathetically what had
gone wrong with the dear old mother-country.
In their own dull and hopeless fashion they
recognised that a dry-rot has somehow taken
possession of Britain, and that the worms of
the charnel-house are eating into its old-time
prosperity. All over the country there is a
general shrivelling up. Work is growing
scarcer, wages are either falling or remaining
stationary, agriculture is going to ruin, and the
fields are steadily being abandoned or turned
into pasture or deer forests, and the distressed
Briton’s desire to get out of his country, and away
to America, or Australia, or Canada, or Africa,
is becoming more and more pathetic with the pro-
cession of the years. The country is obviously
drying up and growing old before its time, and
the Chamberlain deputation, unable to guess
the nature of the disease or its remedy, but
vaguely conscious that a horrible disease was
there, appealed to Joseph of the orchid for
some suggestion as to the best thing to be done.
The reply of Joseph was memorable : the
trouble, he said, arose through want of demand
for Britisli products, and the only remedy was
to find new markets in other parts of the world.
Chamber].ain is understood to be a Freetrader,
but he could hardly have damned Freetrade
more effectually than in those two sentences,
Britain can’t supply a market for her own pro-
ducts because, under the Freetrade system, the
country is swamped with the cheaper goods of
Belgium, Germany, France, America, India,
and a dozen other countries. Therefore, she is
always raking the world in search of new
markets, which she ought td find at
her own doors, and when each new mar-
ket begins to fail, either because the country
becomes self-supporting or because foreign com-
petition breaks up the monopoly, then more new
markets must be found. And when there are
no more new ones to find, then, if Freetrade
continues, Britain must “go broke.” Other
countries can get on, if necessary, without
foreign markets because they have the command
of their own, but the Englishman has to find
his customers in Timbuctoo, or on the Gold
Coast, or in the interior of Thibet, because his
own country is supplied with goods marked
“made in Germany.” It is England’s boast
that her products sell in every part of the
earth, and that her markets are wider than
those of any N other nation, yet Joseph of the
orchid remarks sadly that, with all these
advantages, there is no hope for her unless she
can find new markets. And, for once, Joseph of
the orchid tells the bald, unvarnished truth.
Brutality and the Prize Bing.
Editor Bulletin, —Several of the daily papers
make the fight a peg on
which to hang a sermon about the “ brutality
of the prize-ring.” Nine times out of ten the
preacher has never dared, would never dare, to
put his hands up and face another man in the
ring. Civilisation -is-emasculating us. At all
risks, let us hold fast to pluck, That is the one
barbaric virtue which, when' the pinch comes,
outweighs all others. .Courage is 4 U attribute
essential to manhood. A man Restitute of
courage 'is unsexed. The grim ferocity of the
savage, the passionless determination of the
philosopher, are developments of| the same
innate force. The hero and the champion
pugilist possess courage in unique degree. Th®
hero is man supreme—his principles are noble,
his aspirations sublime. But though intelli-
gence devises, his courage alone executes.
And the sole reason why the champion
boxer survives as an institution is because
men recognise that the prfese - ring calls
directly on a man’s personal courage. “
take our point of honour from the prize-
ring.” The cynic’s remark was based on a
fundamental truth. “A man must stand
alone.” While man retains the pluck to step
into the ring and to grapple single,-handed with
an enemy, the professional boxer will always
command patronage. To pit man against man
is a truly Spartan tost of coinage. I * |C
“ science ” of the game is worthless unless a


man can retain his presence of mind when con-
fronted with a foe. Everyone knows that an
unskilled man of grit will always vanquish a
scientific cur. Possibly, from a sporting stand-
point, physical man appears at his best when,
naked to the waist, he stands “ ready ” in the
ring, with nothing but his daring spirit to
sustain him against a scienced and merciless
adversary. The creature whose blood isn’t
stirred by the scene is devoid of manly instinct.
Lame men, sickly men, puny men, deformed
men, emasculated men, and the third sex object
to contemplate fighting in any form whatever.
There have been great exceptions. The blind
Homer sang the Iliad, and Pope— a sickly
pig m y__translated it. The ideal of the ginger-
bread class is a being who can serve lawn-tennis
balls in the most ladylike fashion. Save us
from becoming a nation of parsons and lawn-
tennis players ! The nation deficient in com-
bativeness has always sunk to a race of listen-
ing slaves. . Gant loves to strain at a gnat and
swallow a camel; at times it will strain at a
gnat and swallow the whole earth. — Pax.
Wanted, a Cheap Advt.
On Oct. 20, last, an obscure N.S.W. weekly,
published some 50 miles or so from Sydney,
printed a distraught tangle of ferocious lies
concerning The Bulletin proprietary, and
accusing the conductors of this paper of sus-
ceptibility to various sinister influences. The
Bulletin calmly accepts all criticism, however
hostile, against its attitude as a paper, but it
will not brook falsehood to the effect that the
members of its proprietary are purchased by
any man, or any set of men, or are under any
control whatever to express any but the free,
individual opinions of the two men who con-
duct The Bulletin, and of those two men
only. Therefore, The Bulletin forwarded to
the paper in question a letter plainly branding
its statements as lies, together with an intima-
tion that, if the letter were not published,
other action would have to be taken. The letter
wat published in the paper in question on
Nov. 10. Since then, numerous other news-
papers, to whom has evidently been sent a copy
of the first network of lies, have referred to the
slanders, a peculiarity of their references being
th it most of them concluded with an expression
of opinion to the effect that “The Bulletin’s
reply will be read with interest.” We take
this opportunity of saying that we have no
intention of giving this obscure paper the cheap
advt. for which it has strategically finessed.
Nor does The Bulletin intend to reply further
than the letter published in the obscure paper’s
own columns on Nov. 10, and to which we refer
all anxious enquirers. Again, on Nov. 17, the
obscure paper charged at The Bulletin after
a manner that carried its own confusion in its
face ; but it also introduced the name of “ Mr.
Ho'Ti’nung ” (the head of the big Sydney firm
of A. Hoffnung & Co. is presumably meant),
as having some minatory cali upon The Bulle-
tin. That, as were the former statements, is a
naked, inexcusable, foundationless lie. The
Bulletin does not even know Mr. Hoffnung
by sight, and would not be able to identify him
from among the personages who conduct the
weekly aforesaid.
Rev. J. Parker, haranguing New South Wales
Sunday School Union on woman’s elevation,
lately argued from the fact that Cicero,
Virgil, and Horace omitted all mention- of
their mothers in their writings that those men
appreciated woman less than Christian writers
o modern times do. This argument, first
f i orated by Canon Farrar, conspicuously
acksall essentials of coherent thinking. In the
nrst place, the character of the literary work
of these men did not necessitate mention of
leu mothers ; in the second, modern writers
0 the first rank similarly omit mention of their
mothers ; thirdly, nearly all low-grade writers,
ancient and modern, drag in their mothers;
fourthly, it can be incontrovertibly
emonstrated that the more civilisation refines
ie more averse will the gifted man be to lug
out from the sacred temple of affection,
or the gaze and criticism of the promiscuous
crowd, the holiest of the treasures of his life.
Common-sense clamours for an explanation of
many paragraphs concerning the Mercantile
ank case in its present Crowney aspect. There
was at first an impotent attempt to belittle the
charges against Matthew Davies and Co. by
suggesting a probability of another nolle
prosequi. It was some time after their com-
mittal for trial ere a Crown Prosecutor started
0 consider ” the question of a prima facie
case having been really proved against them.
His consideration, having started, was a most
protracted affair, according to the newspapers.
Something was always happening to prevent a
careful study of the evidence, and although it
eventually leaked out that the famous
O’Loghlen surprise would not be repeated, the
fact that there had never been any honest cause
to doubt the necessity for further action was
carefully suppressed. At last came a solemn
Argus announcement that “ it has been decided
to allow the law to take its course .” Of course
the law will take its course—but what course
will it take ?
♦
The policy of providing beds in public hospitals
for wealthy paying patients in bitter, workless,
hungry seasons like the past, exhibits many
aspects provocative of condemnation. All
through the close of the late winter the common
cry of the Sydney hospital authorities was that
they had not a bed vacant, and long queues of
penniless sick were driven off day after day to
lie in hunger, wind and rain, beneath the trees
or rocks of park and domain. At the same
time, patients with comfortable homes in which
to be nursed, were given beds in each of these
institutions at from £2 per week up. There is
no doubt that these paying patients received
better value for their money inside the hospitals
than they could possibly have received in their
own homes, and as little doubt that, in at least
some cases, it was mere love of thrift which
inspired their conduct; but the intention of
public hospitals is to be asylums for the sick
who are destitute and not for the wealthy sick
who desire to strike bargains; and it seems time
for the State or governing bodies to rule that,
w’hile a destitute invalid needs a bed, no sub-
sidised hospital shall be made the boarding-
house of the comparatively comfortable.
A Tasmanian letter-carrier, in receipt of the
princely salary of 275. per week, has been
destroying or tampering with newspapers and
letters on quite a wholesale plan. The culprit
is 20 years of age. He married at 19 (despite
objections by the postal authorities, who ad-
vised him to wait for a better position ere
taking the plunge), and has one child. A very
complex case for the consideration of justice
and mercy. Any husband and father who faces
daily temptation on a bare pittance is a legiti-
mate candidate for sympathy, yet a public
servant is not entitled to demand the means to
keep a wife and child before he is out
of his teens. This young fellow entered
into matrimony, which wasn’t a crime, and
thereby rushed into danger, inasmuch as* he
had the handling of letters which might contain
money. As a postman it may be said for him
that he ought to have been fairly paid, there-
fore his lapse is chargeable to the authorities
who, for their part, had advised him of the risk
he ran in getting married before his time. Still,
they allowed him to carry letters on 275, a
week, a modest wage for even a bachelor. A
clerk in a responsible position would be con-
sidered ridiculously ill-paid at the same rate.
But, if very young Post-office employes are to
get much more than 275., their seniors deserve
pay in proportion, and the service becomes a
“soft thing,” inspiring half the boys in the
land with an ambition to wear a red coat. The
trouble seems to lie with the system of appoint-
ing boy-postmen at all. The billet of letter-
carrier should be comfortably endowed and
filled only by men who have worked up to it.
♦
That grand old institution, the South Aus-
tralian Company, is beginning to attract atten-
tion. This concern was formed 56 years ago,
to promote colonisation in the infant province,
and it has been busy promoting ever since. A
primitive Government, filled with a sense of
the blessings of foreign capital, sold to the
S.A. Co. a vast area of land at 12s. fid. an
acre, on the vague understanding that the co.
would sell it again on easy terms to settlers.
But instead of the land being sold, it—or a great
part of it —was leased at steadily increasing
rentals, till now the soil, which origi-
nally realised 12s. fid. per acre, is let at
10s. an acre per annum on an all-
round average. The S.A. Co. never did
anything for the province except draw its rents
with inexorable regularity, and thus the com-
munity is to-day paying 80 per cent, interest—
with a prospect, as population increases, of
paying 100, and 500, and, by-and-bye, 1000 per
cent. —annually for the use of a paltry sum of
money which was “ blewed” half-a-century ago,
and which might have been borrowed even then
at 7 or 8 per cent. The blessing of foreign capital
always works out this way. Even the ordinary
money-lender with “A. Isaacs” over his door
comes cheaper in the end than the beneficent
British absentee.
West Australian general election will tak e
place about May, and already a strong party
has taken the field against the Government.
There are progress associations by the score,
and a Northerners’ Association in addition.
The chief planks in the Opposition platform
are more help to the mining industry, exten-
sion of railways to goldfields, abolition of the
system of Perth centralisation, land law reform,
and, above all, honest politics—the country for
the people and not for syndicates. Great capital
is being made out of the obstruction thrown by
the Government in the way of electoral repre-
sentation of the workers. As matters stand at
present, the squatter has a proxy vote, while
the miner, if he is lucky enough to get on the
roll at all, has to record his vote in person.
But the Midland railway boodle alone has con-
demned the Government in the eyes of the great
majority of electors, and if the miners can once
get to the polls, the Forrest family oligarchy
is doomed.
♦
There is something hysterical and illogical
about the system of police promotion in New-
South Wales. The other night, in Sydney,
three policemen came across three presumable
burglars, and surrounded them on such a pro-
foundly elaborate system that they came on the
thieves one at a time, instead of all together.
Two of the officers were knocked down, and
then the burglars bolted at full speed, with the
third constable yelling in the rear. The third
officer—the one who ran and yelled—has been
made a sergeant for his valour. Yet, so
long as three men—or 147 men, for that matter
—continue running and keep a good distance
ahead, it doesn’t require any special valour to
run after them; it is only when they turn
round and run the other way that courage is
much in request. Probably enough Policeman
Ball would have been fully equal to the
occasion if his antagonists had run the other
way, but that officer is not supposed to be pro-
moted for the extraordinary courage which he
might have shown, but for the courage which he
did show, and on this understanding Premier
Dibbs’s enthusiastic admiration for him is not
altogether accountable. Moreover, the courage
displayed by the three constables in the early
stages of the shindy depends entirely on their
own narrative, which is unfortunate. A police-
man is only mortal, and everybody’s narrative
is the better for independent corroboration.
One night last week the faithful few of Mel-
bourne’s Freetraders had a little meeting at the
Athenaeum Hall, with Murray Smith in the
chair, and Max Hirsch as expounder of the
British gospel. “It was notable,” said the
Argus, “ that the audience was thoroughly
representative of all classes of the community,
but the feeling was almost unanimously in
favour of Freetrade doctrines.” Yet Protection
manages to exist, These addresses by Hirsch
remind one of the sermons which one teetotaller
delivers to 500 other teetotallers, who, indeed,
represent all classes of the community but are
calmly ignored by the majority in each class.
The weakness of the Freetrade cry in Victoria
is shown by the fact that it can make itself
audible even in a small building, for if there
were any possible danger to Protection, these
Hirsch meetings would begin and end in a
conflict of uproar.
«
From a leading article on “ Larrikinism in
Campbelltown” (N.S.W.), in the local Herald :
Born of ignorant and miserable parents, whose soulless
bodies see nothing in life but brutality, and who revel in
all the attributes inseparable from the brute creation,
they form a repulsive class very easily distinguishable.
The pattern and style of their clothes alone condemn
them without a hearing. They have no occasion to com-
mence their senseless conversation to enable one to dis-
tinguish the manner of man, because their whole sur-
roundings sully and darken the atmosphere wherever
their thrice-accursed forms intrude, and on the very
ground upon which they walk the grass almost refuses
to grow. In the animal creation we have great
diversity, but going away to the bed - rook of re-
pulsiveness we have nothing half so repulsive as the
larrikin. In the different kingdoms nothing so
hideously forbidding has been created
Hit the beast under the chin or ear whenever he makes
himself objectionable, and if needs be give him the con-
tents of a six-shooter. Morally, there is no more harm in
shooting one of these beasts than there is in dispatching
a black snake, and we feel sure that no jury could be
found to convict the hero who would rid society of a few
of them. . . , When a dog is afflicted with disease the
best thing is to shoot him, and just the same rule holds
good with the two-footed curs. Not only are they useless
but there is the terrible danger of their loading society
with an offspring which cannot possibly be better than the
parent stock. The only remedy we can suggest is to
shoot them down like dogs. Their dirty bodies are as
valueless as their souls, because if any decent man for an
instant entertained the idea that such carrion would
inherit heaven there would be a general strike of all those
who lived in anticipation of reaching the better world.
This must certainly remain the
utterance on the subject.
♦
Dear Bulletin, —The alderman’s name will be
Legion at the next New South Wales general
election, as you have pointed out with unusual
iteration. But what of the poor country news-
paper editor ? What has he done that you
ignore him, and refuse him the same advertise-
ment as the alderman. For if his name he not
Legion it will be Squadron, or Battalion, or
something, at the next election also. Amongst
the vast number of citizens who “ are thinking
of having a shy somewhere myself,” the country
newspaper editor “ought to he not uncon-
spicuous;” and if not the country editor, then
the country newspaper proprietor. For, as in
a great cricket match, you can always pick two
or three teams from the onlookers who could
lick the players hollow (and who yell for Smith
to he taken off bowling and Jones put on) ; so,
judging from the country and city newspaper
articles, there ought to be at least 500 editors
who could govern New South Wales success-
fully and guide her safely from her present
perils. In fact, if things go on like this
much longer, a commission of country editors
will have to be appointed, with power to send
for persons, papers, refreshments, police, &c.,
to put tilings straight. There is only one
drawback to the editor as a candidate for Par-
liament, and I regret to say it is likely to he
regarded as a fatal one.—He is' not always a
God-fearing man. And there is only one safe-
guard for the sitting member, and that is to
buy the local newspapers, and do his own edit-
ing. It is a consolation to know, however,
that when the local editor meets the local
alderman, then will come the tug of war.—
Arkemedes.
A Queensland Anthem.
ì
P. LUFTIG.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ Auditor” ; You say the auditors “certified to
the year’s transactions” and then found something wrong
with the balances brought forward, and demanded the with-
drawal of the balance-sheet, and you complain because
The Bulletin said they “repented ” having certified the
sheet. Well, any auditor ought to repent under such
circumstances, and the alleged “repentance” is practi-
cally the only difference in the two stories “Ralph
Ranger”: Your little pomelet about the “wavelet,” and
so on, is essentially commonplace “Peat Reek”:
“The Three Flies” are a depressing w'retchedness
“ L.J.P.”: “Your friend was present on the occasion.”
Unfortunately, other people’s friends have been habitu-
ally present on exactly the same occasion any time the
last 20 years “H.M.H.”: Sorry, but you can’t “com-
memorate ” the local Presbyterian sin-shifter in this
paper “R.C.8.”: Long-winded and horribly stilted.
Moreover, you put 140 words in a clause, and when
a man plunges into one of your sentences he isn’t
seen again for 40 days, till he comes up breathless with
some alarming statement tangled in his hair.. ..
“M.L.”: Well-written, but a hackneyed theme...
Rags ” (Wagga-Wagga): A useless effort. No amount of
eloquence will make people regard the typical draper as
anything better than a sort of he-female. Nobody can take
the draper seriously, any more than the curate. Women
only ought to sell drapery—though there are many nice
women too manly for such a business.... “Q. 8.”: Rehio-
• tantly declined. Ideas good and language poetic, but
metre and rhymes too jagged ... “ W.H. W.” (Rcdfern):
The Creation is a large subject, and you are a small to
medium “ pote.”.. “F.H.” (Hobart): Thanks
“ Pseudo-Director ” : Sarcasm too heavy. Persiflage that
can be used as ballast is a failure “ Felix Sundowner”;
Your child-like faith in mass meetings is interesting.
Supposing Parliament took no notice of the meetings? ...
“ Worker’’: Manhood suffrage, you say, “is one of the
most dangerous things a working man can hold.” Well,
what do you reckon is a safe thing to hold? .. “The
Novice”: Crude, copy-book maunderings among the
sepulchres, with a hollow note in them like a
tract lost in a tank, and much large, wild, mis-
directed “ O 0.N.” (Haymarket): Sorry, but we
can’t stand that “ last wrap,” which is “torn undone.”...
“fi.G.M.” (Ooolgardie): Verse lacks music. !t sounds
like a bull-voiced demon beating with a hammer on a big
brass gong—“E.S.” (Darlinghurst): Expressive, but
dirty — “ T. 8.” (Melb.): Tub Bullktin hereby takes you
by the hair, and leads you secretly into the exact centre
of a great desert, and there whispers to you confidentially
that you can’t write poetry worth a cent “Very Old
Subscriber”: N0....“D.M.” (Shepparton): Unsuitable.
....“Scrip” (Toowoomba): Will consider “Ohetra-
ria”: Declined....“ F.C.W.” (Newcastle): It has all
been said, and said a lot better, before “Bee”: A
deci nt story, barring the fact that one man spits to a
needless extent on the other man’s boots “H.L.”
(Yerong Creek); Feeble yarn, and gone at both knees ...
“J. Branston ” : Too indefinite. You assume that the
reader knows one-half your yarn, and then you tell part
of the other half disconnectedly, and break off suddenly
under the impression that you thereby look like Victor
Hugo ... “ Pegasus ”: Theory condensed. When a man
promises to come and drink with another man, and
that man doesn’t come, leaving the other man to
drink alone, then that man isn’t a man... “One
of the Fools who are Going ” ; Many thanks. “ Trust-
ing to meet you in Sheol ” is especially good
“ Cookie ” : No humour in your lie “An Advertiser”:
Yes, you can get the paper in question to praise any
monstrosity to oblige a customer. You may continue
“to look for an apology” from Tub Bulletin “ Dis-
franchised”: The Australian isn’t going to pawn his
electoral right with the adjacent publican, because it
wouldn’t be adequate security for one long beer
“ A.J.M.” (S. Melb.) : An old wheeze feebly disguised...
“ Yendys”: Soul-wail in very blank verse declined. ..
“C.M.”; There seems to be an irrepressible itching, at
the elbow of a reverend religious paper editor, to insert
just one outrageous Scriptural joke, at which a secular
editor would tremble. Familiarity with Heaven breeds
contempt “An Auditor ”:If we were charged with
an offence and found not guilty by a jury, and the Judge
thereupon said that we were lucky and undoubtedly
committed the crime imputed, we’d serve his Honor
with a slander-writ and have the question of judicial
privilege discussed, even if we had to proceed in forma
pauperis and sleep in the Domain between our appear-
ances in his court. We don’t believe, for an instant,
that any Judge has any such right. The jury is
the sole arbiter of guilt or innocence, and a judge who
has the insolence to re-charge with crime an acquitted
man deserves to be hustled off the Bench
“ Anti-H." : England, you say, has not, for hundreds of
years, carried out, single-handed, a successful campaign
against white men. Better write Gen. Hutton on this
delicate subject.. .“Emu”: Pastor Fitchett’s remark
re The Bulletin having no definite Xmas “ideas in its
Xmas No.” simply means, we presume, that we have
avoided what we sought to avoid. We detest the con-
ventional English Xmas . .“Irish”: No priest has been
sentenced in Sydney during the last ten years—or even
during the last 20, so far as we know—for riot
“H.P.8.”: Thank you, but The Bulletin never prints
serials “ Viv. W.": It is illegal in England for a woman
to marry her deceased husband’s brother, just as it is for
a man to marry his deceased wife’s sister. It has never
been decided whether the English law on this subject is
in force in N.S.W. Buchanan’s Act, which validated
marriage with a deceased wife’s sister, removed doubt on
that point, but the question of the dead husband’sbrother
is still unsettled. In a word, it is extremely doubtful
if the table of prohibited degrees of afiSnily applies in
N.S.W., but there is no decision on the point....
“ J.D.”: Uneven, and thought often spoilt for rhyme ;
may use.. . “ G.H.W.” ; “ Railway " too long for point.. ..
“ F.M.W.G.” : Interest too thin “Zeph.”: Good
“ Hilderbrand ” : Milk for babes. ..“ Hubert Church ” :
Pretty; thought too vague “W.R.R.”; Don’t copy
Kipling; write for your own hand “Chrome” :
“Mrs. Fin" fair; “Sandy Fay” better. Try and
strengthen motive “E.”: Tame “Ishmael”: Will
use—“D.M.”: Both good “Batavia”: Weak
“ L. M‘K.” : “Poem” useless; will print grievance...
“6x8”: “Luck” du11...." Julian S.”: Long; lame.
“Flinders Lane”: May make par “Austin
Archer”: Chiefly sad “Boko”: Topic stale.
“H.C.S.”: Not new or strong enough “Gabo”: Too
laboured—be natural; too long—be brief. . .“H.M.F.”:
Worst poem this week. You’ll never fully appre-
ciate that compliment “ Mephistopheles ” : Lacks
interest.... “ 1). Shaw”: Referred to Hop. . .
“Miner”: Following books useful—Lupton’s “Mining”
—a treatise on the getting of minerals, 10, 6 ; Busier’s
“Metallurgy of Gold” a practical treatise on the
metallurgical treatment of gold-bearing ores—l2/6; Milne’s
“Miner’s Handbook,” 7,6; Moore and Powell’s “Prac-
tical Guide for Prospectors, Explorers and Miners.”
“ R.S.H.” (Vic.): Thanks...." Casamajor ” : Just over
the line “ D.H.” (Lowne); An ancient climax fltti d
on to a new incidtnt. History repeats itself..
“ Carlow ” : Can’t give you any approximate dale “A
Distracted One”: Thanks “ A.C.”: Bill and Jim
excellent... “James G.” (Vic.): We should say that Mrs.
Harriet Beecher Stowe has too many friends and admirers
in America to be allowed to starve. (2.) For the
Twentieth Century write Humboldt Publishing Co.,
New York, enclosing subscription, sav, 6s. 6d. per quarter
and Is. Id. postage “ A. 0.” ; We believe that
she played in Melbourne Royal pantomime in 1870
and continued to do so annually until 1878 when the
Stewart family started on their travels with an entertain-
ment called “Rainbow Revels.” “Cricket”; “If a
striker hits the ball and both batsmen run ; a fieldsman
catches the ball and returns it to the wicket-keeper ; can
the wicket-keeper put other batsman out if he has not
reached crease ? ” No ; the ball on being caught is dead,
and one batsman only retires “Scorpion”: Intro-
duction laboured; point previously used *• L.N.” :
Sorry can’t use ... “G. P. Browne ” : Fanciful fallacies.
“ Patsie Wallaby”: Weak point, burdened with
irrelevant detail “Van Winkle”: Insufficient
interest. “E. A. Daly”; Would boil down to a
not-over-brilliant par “The Boy”: Same old
backslider . ..“J.A.P.”: Mostly unsuitable “An
Admirer” (Melbourne): Poetry doesn’t agree with
you, evidently, and your puns are ghastly things...
“Scot”: The rather dirty and offensive legend about
the origin of the house of Guelph has been told hundreds
of times. It wasn’t interesting even when new, and it
is dismally stupid now that it is old “ Boston ” : Please
scrub your figures of speech “Gordon”: Too long,
and throw's no new light on the subject “Three.
Star”: Good “Prank J.”; There is a culohawed and
elegant despair about your verse w'hich is unprintable
You ought to rave with a silk dressing-gown on in a
boudoir “Marah”: He was a man of no account at
any time. [Fifteen correspondents who write on both
sides of the paper are cursed into outer darkness].
Statistics of English children who die
under five years :—Children of upper class, 18 per
cent.; of tradesman class, 36 per cent.; of working
class, 55 per cent.
There is a squatter up Narrabri (N.S.W.)
way who has been a Texan cowboy, and carries,
as a memento of that idyllic period of his life, a
portion of his own skull as a pendant to his watch-
chain. Apropos, Sweetman, serving 14 years for
his very minor share in the Mount Rennie affair,
was lately received at Darlinghurst Prison from a
N.S.W. country gaol suffering from hemiphlegia,
or paralysis affecting the whole of one side of his
body. It was decided by the medical officer of
the gaol that the paralysis was caused by an old
cranial injury, and that an -operation was neces-
sary ; so a portion of the man’s skull was bored
out, with the result that he has now completely
recovered and is on his feet again. As to Sweet-
man’s guilt, it must, regarding the question dis-
passionately, be admitted that, if legally culpable
at all, his offence would have been more than
adequately met by a month’s gaol, instead of by
14 years and three floggings—which latter, owing
to his bad health, could not be inflicted. It will
be seen by anyone who cares to read the evidence
that Sweetman was no more responsible (from the
standpoint of cause and foreseen effect) for the
crime with which he was saddled than theappetite
of the Emperor of China is responsible for the
Australian rabbit difficulty.


4>imml Smokes Tor our Itnek-ltlocks Friends at
CITY PRICES!
STAMPS or P. 0.0. to any amount taken.
Box of (100) CIGARS, Regulia Bouquet .. .. 20/-
Box of (100) CIGARS, Indian .. .. IJ/6
Box of (50) CIGARS, fineC.Q. Manilla .. .. 10/
Box of (100) CIGARS, Alonzo Menez Habana 30/-
Oarriage paid t« any part of Australasian colonies.
M, and //. WOOLF it <70., Cif/ar Merchants,,
826 Oborok Strkkt. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
jSk. Good arid Claeap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
î
Manufactured by
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
PAVERNt; (Swltierland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
Tiny other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you gob the genuine
•article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
The Bulletin
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
February 7, 1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The one pleasant feature about Sydney’s sensa-
tional burglary is that one of the burglars, when
arrested, wore a red knitted tie. Certainly these
stocking-like abominations have got very low
down, but here and there an engaged and “ gen-
teel ” Gussie has one flung round his neck by his
dexterous Angelina and has to wear it or lose
his bride for ever. But now Gussie has a beauti-
ful excuse, The arrest of Mr. “Williams” with
a red “ eroschayed ” tie on means the banishment
to outer-darkness of the home-constructed scarf.
I see that the assertive J. L. Hordern, who
exhibited a sleeping boy in one of the big windows
of his big drapery last week, has been drawing the
multitude latterly with a much prettier device.
A flock of sheep in a miniature paddock with
woollen products hanging about, was really a
sensible attraction and kept a crowd round the
pane. It has just struck me that a tradesman
who put a real horse in his window would block
the traffic for hours.
The five stunned policemen in that burglary
encounter are certainly to be taken very seriously,
I know, and I do trust that their injuries may be
only temporary. But still one can’t help thinking
that those flattened-out guardians of the public
rather suggest the recent harlequinades, in which
the bold, bad clown does what he likes with the
man in blue ! I am afraid that the principle of
natural selection operates so as to make the
average burglar far more than a match for the
average peace-officer. The burglar almost invari-
ably takes to ids exciting profession because he
feels fit for burglary—because he possesses
strength, mechanical skill, desperate resolution,
and an iron nerve. Under other circumstances,
your brutal burglar would shine as the leader of a
forlorn hope. But the average policeman, I fear,
though a very fine fellow to look at, is chiefly
selected, not because he is specially adapted to
fighting burglars, but because he is sufficiently
tall and strong to pass the doctor, is willing to
wear a uniform for six shillings a day—and has a
friend at court to get him appointed.
The golden-haired Mrs. “ General ” Hutton is
now the leading social light in N.S.W., and, con-
sidering that she is rather the style of woman whom
“John Oliver Hobbes” would call a “manner,”
I don’t pretend to wonder at it. Mrs. Hutton,
always fittingly dressed and ready to warmly
second her energetic husband in all ho undertakes,
is a very good starting point for the local social
odterie, which is broken to follow a leader and, so
to speak, likes that leader to keep well ahead of
the team.
The candid “Society ” friend is such a strange
bird that the story going the rounds down
South (say), anent Lady Blank and her dearest,
“sooially-impossible” chum, is a decided novelty.
It all occurred over Sir Blank’s recent knight-
hood, when Lady Blank, with the honours thick
upon her, decided to give a party to signalise the
ennobblement of the family.
But “my lady,” the brand-new personage
was not to be trusted to issue her own invita-
tions on this fatally - important occasion, lest
somebody should rush in who wasn’t full social
weight, and so a semi-literary society woman was
entrusted with the job of squelching the “ impos-
sibilities.” Critically scanning the list she gal-
loped her pen through the name of Lady Blank’s
dearest crony, despite the expostulations of the
hostess. “We cannot have her invited,” said the
authority—and no more she was.
But the good-hearted, tho’ weak, Lady Blank,
feeling her “matey” would naturally resent being
blackballed, thought out many plans for smoothing
over the awkwardness. At last, one day, they
met at a hotch-potch garden-party. “My dear,”
gushed the tactful Lady Blank, “ what you
think of being left out of my little affairs 1 But,
of course, you know, dear, it was not at all my
fault. Mrs. Asterisk (giving the name in full I)
“overlooked my visiting-list, and she really
wouldn’t hear of you 1” But even after that
amende honourable relations are still strained.
I think it that sort of death-dealing candour
obtained to any great extent in ‘.‘society,” people
would gird up their loins and flee into the wilder-
ness. Everybody professes to. admire an open
soul, but individually we get on ever so much
better without it. To my mind, the graceful and
transparent fib—the everlasting mask of suavity—
the utterly impossible pleasure expressed at the
most chance and commonplace encounters —the
artistic non-committal temporising when it is
doubtful which way the cat will jump—are the
things that make society the interesting thing it
is and elevate its tomfooleries to mysteries so far
as all but the initiated few are concerned. And a
woman who crashes through it with coarse, naked
truths is as destroying an element as a bumble bee
blundering into a spider’s web and carrying away
the silver lace-work of the evil little trap.
A new style, that would be strikingly origina ®
if everybody wouldn’t do it at once, has burst into
fashion in Sydney among Society note-writers —I
mean the doing away with any formal commence-
ment, and plunging into the middle of the affair
with the effect of a man diving off a springboard.
For instance : “Very much obliged, I am sure,
my dear Mrs. Snooks,” or “Thanks, a thousand
times, dear Mr. Brown, for the white elephant
you so kindly lent me,” and so on, all quite con-
versational, and producing a somewhat telephonic
effect on the recipient, as if the voice of your cor-
respondent were emerging from the envelope.
Mind you, I have no reasonable objection to this
style of communication, only when, everybody
makes the same epistolatory pounce upon you, you
naturally like a change, even if only the
“Honoured Ma’am” a certain politician’s wife
once addressed to Lady Carington. Evidently,
this breathless fashion comes from ’Ome, for I
notice that Mrs. Essie Jenyns Wood, who is fresh
caught from Hingland, employs the sudden
method.
I have received from W. H. Paling and Co. a
clever waltz arrangement of the swinging “After
the Ball ” ballad, which is danceable right through
and doesn’t lapse into faults when the title air is
disposed of, like so many popular dances. “Tur-
quoisette Mazourka,” by Lowell Phillips, is a
taking arrangement of the taking airs in the Blue
Ballet that ought to be widely played, and I am
also pleased with Piccolornini’s “Whisper and I
Shall Hear,” a natural and tuneful love song
striking a middle course between eroticism oid
board i ng-school mawkishness, and specially vw . len
for a soprano voice.
Apropos music, it appears that the handsome
lawyer, whose return to Sydney society after set-
ting his face stagewards has occasioned so much
interest, has come back on purely private business.
I suppose a time will come when people will
leave off trying to methodise affairs matrimonial.
A Sydney daily has just published a letter on
the State regulation of marriage. To give effect
to the writer’s scheme would be equivalent to
instituting fleshless, bloodless marriage by
machine.
That the women men find attractive are‘not the
women whom women like, is simply owing to
“the trade-jealousy of women and if a man had
to go meekly to a tabby-regulated office and ask
for “a bride, please,” the dumpy maiden who had
never had a lover in her life would be passed over
the counter in preference to the flirty darling who
could marry forty times over without bureaucratic
interference.
State-regulated marriage is the last straw at
which the despairing spinster clutches when in-
dependently-attractive youth and beauty swamp
her prospects; for there isn’t a shadow of doubt
that a woman can find tolerably good friends in
women when the time has come that man will
have nothing more to do with her. Man would
“jib” at the bureau, because man is a hunting
animal. No eligible man wants to marry a girl
who isn’t sportswoman enough to hook her own
flathead.
The notion—in a nutshell —is that a dozen
representative tabbies should form a matrimonial
bureau, appoint medical, legal and business
advisers and allow candidates to apply for certifi-
cates of physical, mental and financial soundness,
after which a wife selected by the tabbies would
be handed out and the candidate made a happy
man for life. “ Mistakes would no doubt arise,”
says the modest promoter, “ but the committee
would be doing what is essentially women’s
work."
True enough. Women have been match-makers
from the beginning of time, and they would like
to choose every man’s bride for him. But a
woman’s woman is never a man’s woman, and
matrons always have the pleasure of seeing that
nasty forward little cat going off with the catch
of the neighbourhood while the maiden of their
fancy darns stockings to no purpose.
A Frenchman remarked to me recently that he
was surprised so very few Australian women could
converse with him in his own tongue, and his
comment occurred to me when I heard that
Madame Henry, the cleverest and most impressive
Frenchwoman we have ever had resident in Aus-
tralia, is forming a cercle litteraire in Sydney for
ladies who know something of the Gallic tongue to
discuss the best French authors, leading questions
and topics of interest. Madame Henry will also
hold classes for every variety of would-be French
scholar, from beginners to students who only lack
an idiom or two to talk like Napoleon Bonaparte.
People desiring to join may get full particulars
from Miss Church at Wentworth Court, Eliza-
beth-street, while references are permitted to many
leading personages.
5 It has been suggested to the editor of the Aus-
tralian Hebrew Times that the crying need of the
Chosen of Sydney is a club where the ham-sand-
wich would be unknown, and grilled bacon eter-
nally “ off.” I think a Jewish club sounds a most
promising notion, for Jews ai'e clannish, and
yet their only peculiar vantage ground (outside
the racecourse and the theatre) is the Synagogue,
where the “pint of wine” and the “quiet
rubber" are impossibilities. I think it a lovely
idea from an Israelitish point of view—and especi-
ally the “quiet rubber.” What a dividend solo-
whist at the Jewish club would crush for the
Gentiles !
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
T. W. Tucker, who started the Maitland
'(N.S.W.) Mercury in 1843, is still the principal
proprietor of that paper. Fifty-one years of
journalistic work on one paper must be pretty
near to a record.
Sydney School of Arts is steadily going to
leeward. The committee cannot make both ends
meet by J 3700 per annum; and, last year,
some JJ2500 was “ irregularised ” in addition.
Treasurer, auditors, committee—all indignantly
repudiate responsibility for the disgraceful neglect
which made the shortage possible. The average
thick-headed person can pose excellently at the
head of a public institution, and some of the
School of Arts committee have posed so long that
they are unable to do anything else.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “True as Steel."
Criterion “ Charley’s Aunt."
Theatre Koval ‘‘Current Cash."
Lyceum “Round the World in
Sixty Days."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Gondoliers."
Theatre Royal “ Sinbad the Sailor."
A concert kindly organised in aid of the
three little orphans of the late Mons. and Madame
la MSsRe took place at Sydney Town Hall, on
2nd inst., and attracted a good audience. Mr.
Frank Adams, the English tenor, was the only
defaulter in the list of assisting artists—including
Miss Baber, who was encored for “ Bel Raggio,”
Miss Cecily Staunton, who substituted “Caro
Mio Ban ” for her billed solo, and made a
success; MM. Daslouis, Kowalski, Wiegand,
Henri Staell, and a sprinkling of amateurs, who
only get shown up in such company, but who
never seem to learn any better. Also, Miss
Josephine Deakin sang, with much expression,
“To the Evening Star.” With the exception of
the amateurs hereinbefore alluded to the La
concert was well carried out.
** * *
Mr. Fred. Kellermann purposes starting a
series of shilling promenade concerts in Sydney
Town Hall, on 17th inst., which are to be “popu-
lar ” with occasional lapses into the classical. But
not too classic —if they’re meant to pay. At the
Turner concerts, in Melbourne, the incomprehen-
sible is left to people who travel on the high grade
and play to small “five-shilling” audiences, while
the “pops” flourish on “After the ball.” A
promenade too deeply punctured with Chopin
would go down like skittles before the musical
entertainment which boldly threw “Daisy Bell”
into the vortex.
** * *
“ Current Cash,” at Sydney Royal, is a
great improvement on its dishevelled predecessor,
inasmuch as it has some coherence, and a certain
amount of sequence, and a reasonable semblance
of probability, and as much human interest as
could be expected. Also, it is played by a good
co. with only one exception in it, and the utter
badness of the exception only shows the rest of
the company to more advantage. Perhaps it
would be good business to have one gruesome
failure in every company for this same purpose—
to have one hag in every chorus, and a harridan
with a tombstone under her arm in every panto-
mime procession. The interest of “ Current
Cash ” depends mostly on a person who comes
back sideways from the grave, with a green shade
over one eye and a lot of other damages, and
rescues his widow from poverty and gaol—the
reason of his existence being apparently to show
that there is always beer in Gilead, and that hope
springs eternal in the four-act melodrama. Mrs.
IrveHayman—adaughterof that stage veteran, Mr.
J, A. Thynne—makes a pretty and idealistic widow,
while Miss Daisy Thynne does the fluffy and sym-
pathetic niece of the villain, and baby Thynne,
whose front name is Myrtle, is the infant of the
show. The infant is a nice and exceedingly self-
possessed little maiden, and the beauty of the
piece consists of the Thynne family exclusively.
The villain is outwardly an obvious copy of
Colonel Fred. Hiscocks, and he has Hiscooks’ un-
naturally shiny bell-topper on his wicked cranium.
Also, Miss Kate Towers, as a certain persecuted
lady, contrives to look so like an inflamed cook
who has just burst out of the kitchen, that it is,
perhaps, as well to say nothing more about her.
** * *
Mr. George Lauri, upon whom depended
the entire comic element of the somewhat pro-
cessional “Beauty and the Beast,” at Sydney
Lyceum, got a well-merited benefit on the 2nd
inst., when, though the house was a bumper, the
show somehow went on three legs from curtain to
curtain. The gifted comedian himself seemed
pallid o’er with the pale cast of thought, and his
interpolated song, “Just because I loved her,”
sung with the fag-end of his voice at the fag-end
of the run, was sometimes out of tune. Also, the
“giving away” of Laud’s trap-door “double,”
was an unnecessary exposure of what had exposed
itself from the first to any ordinarily observant
person.
• # •
Mrs. Lauri sang her “ Jack the Giant
Killer” ditty “There’s something about her as
fetches yer,” and threw the additional gloom of
the coster accent and clothing over a glittering
show that had hitherto escaped the infection ; and
the ballets, without Bartho (who is in Melbourne),
were unsatisfying visions of cold splendour, cold
legs, and cold shoulders. Lauri’s benefit was
virtually the end of the gorgeous pantomime, the
only faults of which were a pjethora of splendacity
and a too obtrusive barracking for Freetrade.
“Give us Protection for a change,” said an ex-
asperated voice from Olympia, when Lauri and
Vernon gave tongue once on the blessing of
encouraging foreign industry. Next Saturday
“ Round the World in Sixty Days”—a spectacular
drama on a scale of unusual splendour (as if the
community hadn’t had enough unusual splendour
for this year)—goes on, with Caicedo (anglio6
Katchedo) on the daring top wire, assisted terres-
tially by Henrietta Watson, Polly Emery, Mr.
and Mrs. Sass, the elephant borrowed from the
Zoo, Courtneidge, Harry Leston, and other more
or less welcome people.
*» * »
Geo. Rignold has deservedly struck a
patch of good fortune with “True as Steel.”
The windmill, with George and his damp, but
lovely, burden clinging to the wheel, is going very
strongly, and thesteam-hammerisdoingtremendous
business. The drama, by the way, is performed
by arrangement with Plain Bill Holloway, which
is in itself a refreshing circumstance; after his
long absence the sight of Plain Bill’s name in the
advt. is eminently pleasing. Last week, in com-
menting on this drama, The Bulletin made an
unfriendly observation about the close resemblance
between it and the "Silver King,” which
observation, not being so explicit as it might have
been, was commonly taken to mean that ‘‘True
as Steel ” is a plagiarism from the pathetic story of
Jailces and his intoxicated master. As it hap-
pens, however, the present drama is much the
older of the two, and the allusion should have
been the other way about. Therefore, The Bul-
letin tenders an apology to the steam-hammer,
and trusts that the windmill will take the explana-
tion in good part.
*« * *
“ Charley’s Aunt ” is still going at Sydney
Criterion with profitable results, and no change of
programme is visible on the furthest horizon.
** * *
Wm. Larmour, of Coogee Aquarium, pro-
poses to become an alderman, in addition to hia
other distinctions. His political programme, as
set forth on a sheet three feet broad and four feet
long, is evidently to rush Ooogee ahead until it
becomes the Federal capital of Australia.
** * *
Dan Barry appears to be set for a long
innings at Melb. Alexandra, where so many
passing managements have failed for want of the
pluck and ready cash necessary to a liberally
appointed show at cheap prices. On Saturday
the house was almost crowded throughout by a
hot, admiring audience, who adapted themselves
to each “ situation ” with ease, and followed the
loose-jointed plot with awful persistency. “ First
Class ” is said to have been played in Melbourne
before—a strong point in its favour, because early
impressionsof this drama are bewildering, and aper-
son seeing it once must either clear up the mystery
by further investigation, or brood over various
incidents until his brain gives way. Burglars are
at the bottom of “ First Class,” and promiscuous
larceny is rife in each act. A bell-toppered
villain with an infantile sneer is continually being
bowled out, but the crushing evidence of one scene
is quite forgotten in the next, and proofs of guilt
roll off his fur-trimmed overcoat like water from
a duck’s back. The more this desperado is un-
masked the better he seems to like it, until at last
Nemesis overtakes him in a certain “den,” and
Frank Cates, emerging from a dark cellar, hands
the unsophisticated monster over to the police.
Dan Barry, as the lame, unwashed proprietor of
the den aforesaid, is a wicked old man
with a virtuous daughter. At least she
passes as his daughter, although the re-
lationship is never properly established. When
asked if she has any witnesses to prove
that the aged sinner is her progenitor, the maiden
shakes her head, so the problem remains unsolved
to the bitter end. This girl, admirably imper-
sonated by Miss Dora Mostyn, gets in touch with
human nature on several occasions; also, hei
singing of “Maid of Athens,” tenderly accom-
panied by Cope's orchestra, is an artistic oasis in
a wild desert of excitement. Dan Barry has an
unforced method of preying upon society, whilst
D. L. Dalziel passes muster despite a hard, un
manageable voice. Several other members of the
company have deteriorated since they took to
raising their pitch to suit the auditorium, and in
particular Miss Eugenie Duggan grows irritating
on account of her jerky assertiveness. All the
same, "First Class ” is a successful enigma, care
fully put upon the stage.
*« * *
The return of Bartho in her Sydney series
of national dances was a special attraction at
Melb. Princess’ on Saturday. Memories of Bartho,
the ballet poem, are not eclipsed by these later
efforts, but they prove the versatility of the fairy
from Russia, whose reception now, as compared
with the stingy applause given to her first appear-
ances a few months back, is in accordance with
Bulletin prophecy, Caicedo has recovered from
his strain after a short absence from the wire, and
“Red Riding Hood” is closing to satisfactory
business. A substitute for Courtneidge (rehearsing
hia drama character in Sydney) is not likely to
strengthen the pantomime cast during its last
week, but the scenery and properties can be
trusted to shine with undiminished lustre.
** * *
On Saturday a new season of comic opera
opens at the Princess’s. Six, or more, perform-
ances of “The Gondoliers,” with Miss Elsie
Cameron back again as the duchess, and Joseph
Tapley in the tenor part, will set the ball rolling.
Then comes more “ Dorothy ” and Nellie Stewart.
By the way, Nellie intends to make another
attack on London next year, ’tis said.
** * *
The Royal panto, is flourishing more than
ever as its end draws near, the last matinee
having beaten previous records. “Sinbad” will
outlast the rival show by one night, in any case,
and it is not unlikely, at time of writing, that the
hard-working company may reap the reward ol
perseverance for another week yet. Meanwhile,
Maggie Moore is melting nearer and nearer to hei
figure of long ago, and her natural volatility seeim
to increase with temperature.
** * *
Things continue as before at the Alhambra,
although Frank Clark, after settling matters con-
cerning the baby, has gone off to Maoriland with
a small contingent. The Gaiety is likewise main-
taining a heroic struggle, but Exhibition Concerts
talk of closing shortly, and conductor Turner takes
a benefit next Saturday. Smoke concerts at the
Rotunda Hall have already ceased to be. The
hall is put out of court, as a place of entertain-
ment, by a number of iron pillars that obstruct
one’s view of the platform from most points.
** « «
The estate of Arthur Garner was, we
regret to see, sequestrated at Melbourne last week.
Petitioning creditor, the General Finance, Agency
and Guarantee Co. Chief assets, 25,0(X) shares in
the Princess Theatre Co., Ltd. Garner and
Musgrove, by the way, built the Princess’s Theatre
(whereupon a bloated capitalist, in London, draws
a ground rent), whilst partner Williamson stood
out of that particular spec. Seeing that the price
of such property has diminished during the last
seven years, Williamson’s idea of the situation
was the right one. Better to have let the ground
landlord build a new theatre on a guarantee of
five years tenancy. At the expiration of that
term the Firm could have had him at its m.uoy
as regards rent.
At Poverty Point.
R. S. Smythe was, at latest, far on the road to recovery
and was allowed to see his friends, amongst whom was
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, who found the
big little man a good deal pulled down in bulk; hut look-
ing wonderfully well considering what a severe illness he
had experienced. His son was his devoted attendant all
through.
It is announced that that prdmising Sydney amateur,
Miss Inez Bensusan, will shortly leave for Paris, to study
at the Conservatoire for the stage proper. Miss Ben-
Biisan’s personal appearance, by the way, seems to have
much impressed certain Graphic and Ili.ustratid News
artists, who have been using photographs of her as draw-
ing-models for recent illustrations.


Oh ! draught divine, that adds new life—breeds
mirth—
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Where shall I quaff thee? Horace! thou shouldst
know ?
Why, in the Boar’s Head Brand of Innes and Co.
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
New York Life Insurance Company.
ESTABLISHED 1845.
Total Assets, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... £28,292,010
Surplus, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... ... 3,457,808
Progress of the Company in 1892,
INCREASE IN BENEFITS TO POLICY-HOLDERS .. .. .. *373,339
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. ~ .. .. 3,376,935
INCREASE IN SUPLUS .. .. .. .. .. .. „ 343,371
INCREASE IN INSURANCE WRITTEN .. .. .. .. .. 4,308,669
INCREASE IN INSURANCE IN FORCE .. .. .. .. .. 13,379,733
The increase during the year in amount of insurance in force is larger, by over £2, 000,000, than
the gain of any other Company in the world.
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager, Department of Australasia.
Chief Office: Bond Street Cham Iters, Si/dne//, N. S. W,
“Captain Swift” was at latest playing in London to
„erv good bouses. Tummy sampled it a few evenings
teo and was so delighted that he expressed a wish that
the’ author should be presented to him. But either
Haddon was absent or his native modesty forbade the
honour, for the presentation didn’t come off.
Laurence Cautley talks again of taking to the operatic
atace where he will do very well, of course, if his voice
be only of fair second-class quality. By the way, Mrs.
Cautley’s handsome young son—by her first husband,
Prof. Andrew—was recently a chorister at St. Paul s
Cathedral, Melb.
Lawrence Cautley, if possible more lovely than ever,
was. at latest, playing a pretty good part in “The Gaiety
Girl ”at London Prince of Wales. He talks of going out
to Australia again about March, and intends to stay, for,
he says wil h a poetic gleam in his eye, “ I do love to see
the blue skies of the Sunny South.” Lawrence is in one
respect a model for young married men: he absolutely
adores his mother-in-law, who is certainly a clever old
lady.
When it was recently suggested to Nordioa that she
ought to visit Australia, she replied, “ But surely I’m too
young for that !”
Ada Crossley, bound to strike in Eng., will be the first
great Australian contralto—Melba, Rees, Sherwin, Seville,
being soprani.
Bob' rt Courtneidge and wife (Miss Rosie Nott), the
last of the Gaiety campaigners, are returning to Hingland
next March. Meanwhile, Courtneidge will play in the
coming spectacular drama at Sydney Lyceum,
Bishop Webber, of Queensland, who is going round
London with the sacred plate, stirs up the faithful with
harrowing tales of the heathenish condition of Australian
bush childr<n. “Some of the young people have grown
up without seeing a clergyman for 20 years.” Those
young people should have saved money. If Bishop
Webber would only specify the localities in which these
benighted people live, the travelling circus and menagerie
might assist the good work by taking a parson along in a
cage.
Jenny Hill is in South Africa for her health. She has
been 30 years on the music-hall stage, with salary from
£1 to £llO weekly.
A well-known Melb. Anglican clergyman made Bourke-
strcot stare, the other night, by taking his very large
family to the Royal Pantomime. He was in full black, too,
with white choker. Nowadays, the only complaint against
a parson under such circumstances is for spending about
30s. on a show in poverty-stricken Melbourne. Bentley’s
friend, Rev. Marshall, won't go to the Pantomime because
dancers D’Argo and Weir are not Presbyterians—he must
even have the ballet with the accent on.
Nearly two thousand Fellows, with their sisters and
their cousins and their aunts, attended the last smoking
concert of the season at the Imperial Institute, when
“Wales” was present, writes a London correspondent
to The Bulletin. Tummy is always a great draw wher-
ever he goes. These concerts are very popular, and
Somers Vine did a clever thing in thus catering for the
amusement of the people whose guineas keep the ship
afloat.
Signora Majeroni is now in Melbourne, and has, every-
one will gladly hear, so far improved in health that she
hopes soon to open at a local theatre.
Rawei, the Maori evangelist recently in Australia, has
taken unto himself a wife in Hinie Taimoa, a most pre-
possessing young lady of his own race. Assisted by his
bride—who, until she married, had never been beyond
30 miles from her own home —Rawei is now having
excellent crushings in Tasmania.
It is notable that H. Lempriere Pringle, now first bari-
tone in the Carl Rosa Co., the Cunningham Bros. (Charles
and Roland), and many others of less renown, but, never-
theless, gifted, all received their early musical training
as choir-boys at St. David’s Cathedral, Hobart, under
organist Fred. A. Packer, the clever Tasmanian composer
—now clerk to Tas. House of Assembly.
Sword-cutting of an apple on a woman’s throat. —Melb.
show.
A professional being unable to appear in Melb., the
other night, through indisposition, he was led on the
stage, to show the indisposition was genuine. "One touch
of nature makes the whole world kin.”
Allan Hamilton, the circus man, is jumping the title
“ Most Travelled,” lately assumed by R. S. Smythe.
Bland Holt, after a six weeks’ Hobart season, went
away by no means in good humour. Even two new
pieces with the bloom of London success still on them,
“The Prodigal Daughter” and “ A Woman’s Revenge,”
failed to stir up the locals.
Pollard’s lilliputians, with the time-honoured Grattan
Riggs in management, are now playing to Hobart
audiences—the Mercury says, with brilliant success, and
as the same proprietary are believed to own both the
theatre and the paper the opinion is doubtless correct.
A smart girl (now playing with a certain Melb. co.)
“cheeked” the manager, a few days back, and was
informed that she was fined half-a-crown. “ All right,”
said the lively lass, “ take it out of last week’s salary.”
The point being that the company’s ghost has paralysis
of both legs.
Geo. Coppin says that Melb. Royal pantomime is paying
well.
The departing Ada Crossley benefits in Melb. on March
3—her birthday. Lalla Miranda also has set her eyes on
England.
At Lauri’s ben. the benefit-taker stood “ Sara” in prac-
tically unlimited fizz for brother artists behind the cur-
tain, and extended his hospitality even to the ushers, who
came up from behind wiping their mouths. But for the
vast army of ballet-girls there was unlimited—lemonade.
The figurante of our fancy who exists on fizz and oysters
must be a comic-paper myth 1
New London plays, not yet seen in Australia—“ Gaiety
Girl,” “Utopia,” “Mrs. Tanqueray,” “Woman of No
Importance,” “ Other Fellow,” " Tempter,” “ Mrs.
Othello,” “ Sowing the Wind.”
Sydney City Council has distinguished it-
self, at this time of general distress, by “blow-
ing ” _ <£3l 10s. of the ratepayers’ money on
illuminated addresses of condolence to the widows
of three deceased aldermen. An illuminated
address of condolence is no earthly use or con-
solation either to the widow of an alderman or to
anybody else, and only symbolises the coarse,
obtrusive vulgarity of the givers, who think that
sympathy painted red in a frame must necessarily
be more comforting than a mere, ordinary, human
emotion. At least, that is all it would symbolise if
the aldermen paid for their own decorated pathos,
but when they charge their private woes to the
ratepayers it expresses dishonesty as well as
vulgarity. No man has any more right to send
m a bill to somebody else for his garish expres-
sion of sympathy with a third person than he has
to charge the community for any other of his
finer feelings. The item, “Personal Grief, .£3l
105.,” should be promptly disallowed by the
municipal auditors.
Messrs. Woods and Townsend, teamsters,
of Peak Hill, now running in opposition to the
N.S.W. railways, arrived in Sydney on Tuesday
last with a load of wool (four tons), from Warragul
Station, near Parkes, consigned to Hill, Clark
« Co., Circular Quay. The railway rates, when
the team left, were, for wool, =£4 35., and for 3rd
class goods £7 10s. These rates were reduced on
?nd inst. to .£3 7s. 6d. for wool, and .£6 9s. 4d,
3rd class goods. The carriers state that they
found plenty grass on the way down. Their
expenses for horse-feed were less than £1 for the
whole journey of 15 days, and as they are loading
merchandise on the return journey they will make
a profit out of the transaction, and hope to see
an extension of the traffic. They were very well
treated on the road, the novelty of a return to the
old methods of transit having taken the fancy of
not a few storekeepers and others.
The Wild Cat Column.
Matthew Davies denies, in Melbourne Stan-
dard, that shortly before the Mercantile smash he con-
signed a box to himself, addressed London, presumably
containing cash, and says that, beyond some property
worth £2OO, he is absolutely penniless.
tt • •
The Melbourne daily press congratulates itself
on the infrequency of arrests for burglaries latterly, and
chuckles over the notion that the criminal classes have
transferred themselves to Sydney, When the commercial
sneak-thief detaches himself from Melbourne, it will be
time enough to shy up the hat and chortle. Sydney Cor-
E oration 4 per cent, debentures were quoted last week in
ondon at above par. Yio. Government 3} per cents, at
the same time stood at £9o— i.e., the lowest price men-
tioned for foreign securities of any description 1
• • •
The spirit of Fab Man, which has of late taken
a very back seat at creditors’ meetings in Melbourne,
asserted itself vigorously when James Balfour’s com-
promise came up for consideration before the Freehold
Investment Co.’s victims. There was a rally of the party
that used to cry “ Shame 1 ” upon plain speaking.
• * tt
A sight worth seeing was James Balfour, at the
Freehold Investment Co.’s (Melb.) meeting, when
malicious and excited creditors demanded their money or
a prosecution. James of the sugar-loaf skull stood
afar off and presented an appearance of praying inwardly
for his revengeful enemies. Once or twice, though,
his attitude became almost worldly. For instance,
when J. M. Davies wanted to know whether “ questions
of criminality were in order,” Balfour chanted “ Hear,
hear,” in a kirk-elder tone of voice. Can the Vic. Crown
be shamed into a prosecution of the Freehold Investment
Co. wire-pullers ?
* * *
By last balance-sheet, the Q.N.B. has appar-
ently sunk 64 - 8 per cent, of its capital in bank premises,
furniture, and stationery : “ Paid-up capital, £543,082 ;
bank premises, &c., £298,090.”
• tt tt
There are signs of repentance, however, among
the banks. There is less cricket in banking hours on the
first flat of one big building than in the good, old, ante-
burst days.
* tt «
lb is said now that the depositors in the Melb.
Premier Permanent will only get 10s. in the £ after two
more years. Four years ago the “sharks” bought
deposits at 14s. in the £.
* * # v
Melb. Gas Co. outs its workers down 15 per
cent, in 12 months—three drops of 5 per cent—pays 12
per cent, dividends, and agitates for a heavy duty on
kerosene I
• tt «
A rumoured 10s. call of the Cascade Brewery
Co. (Tas.) is said to mean £20,000 to one prominent
Hobart family.
* * «
“Tattersall” Adams hopes, at the present rate
of progress, to get o'ff the big £300,000 Van Diemen’s
Land Bank lottery in about six months.
tt » «
The Federal Bank liquidators have collected in
Adelaide sufficient money to pay Bs. lOd. in the £ on all
S.A. liabilities ; in Sydney sufficient to pay 7s. 9Jd. in the
£; while in Melbourne, where the oily saints who
founded the institution have mostly gone broke and paid
nothing or thereabouts, the amount on hand is only
enough to pay a dividend of 3s. 7Jd. Therefore, ex-
manager and liquidator Priestly calmly applied last week
to the S.A. Supreme Court demanding that three-fourths
of the money available in Adelaide should be handed over
to make up the Melbourne shortage. Whereupon Chief
Justice Way replied curtly that the application was the
finest specimen of effrontery that had ever come under
his notice.
tt • *
Bank of New Zealand shares (£5 ss. paid up)
which dropped violently within the last few months, still
keep down, and buyers last week were offering 675. 6d.
There is no visible reason for this woeful thud except that
the profits last year were some £4OOO less than the year
before. Also, so far as N.S.W. is concerned, the total
deposits show a slight decrease as against those of 12
months ago, which seems to suggest that the B.N.Z. did
not gather up any large increase of business during the
banking collapse as was generally supposed. Probably,
however, the one serious misfortune of the Bank of N.Z.
lies in the fact that it has moved its head-quarters to
London, and become a foreign instead of an Australasian
institution, and a representative of the übiquitous British
capitalist. Even its reserve-fund is now kept, not in
Maoriiand bonds, but in British consols at 2f per cent.,
and it is bossed by a British directorate. Maoriiand used
to be intensely proud of its big bank, but now that it has
become only an English bank doing business in Maoriiand
it has assumed an altogether new aspect.
• » •
West Australian Bank’s profit last year was
£8291, of which £7OOO goes to pay a div. of 17J per cent. ;
remainder, with previous balance of £17,461, is carried
forward. The W.A. Bank holds the belt for ’93.
• # *
The “NewOrientalßankSoandal,” as it is freely
called, grows larger and uglier every day. The dubious
Australian bank, which fishes for deposits in Great
Britain, has been much execrated of late years, but what
about this dubious English bank, which took Australian
deposits and “ blewed” them in London and elsewhere?
• • «
That truly dreadful institution, the Freehold
Investment and Building Co., of Melbourne, has dreams
of reconstruction. The Freehold Co. has liabilities of
£1,362,381, and its assets consist of properties to the
nominal value of £1,386,428 and about £75,000 of loose
debts. But in the present dead-and-gone state of the
market it is difficult to raise enough in cash to pay even
Is. in the £, and though the Freehold 00. made a stupen-
dous call of £2llos. per share, the results hardly paid for
postage. If the 00. reconstructs it must simply pay a
manager and staff to sit down and keep the flies off its
hopeless assets until things revive and they again become
saleable, which may not be for ten years or so ; and if it
doesn’t reconstruct it will probably realise 2s. 6d. or
more in the £ by forced sale.
• • •
Beak M’Donald, M. H. Davies’ departed friend,
was missed at Melb. Metropolitan Gas Co.’s recent meet-
ing. Although a shareholder, he never threw away a
chance of putting in a shot to depreciate the property.
Nearly every financial concern has such an embittered
raven' caring not if, like Samson, he pulls it down on
himself. Alfred England played the same r6le in Hob-
son’s Bay Railway Co., and Hugh Peck, at Munro’s
Federal Bank. But he was the Cassandra who told the
fools, in public meeting, exactly how they were going,
and refused to be shut up by Chairman Munro’s appeal to
“ every principle of honour.”
tt tt •
That good old pawnshop, the Sydney Mont de
Pists, Limited, has earned.a little over £4240 for the past
half-year. It pays a div. at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum, and adds £5OO each to reserve fund (now
£10,500) and contingency fund (now £5591). The Mont
de P. is a substantial institution, managed by a respon-
sible Hebrew, and directorially overseen by several Gen-
tiles, whom it enables to share the sweets of popshoppery
while preserving their dignity. It weathers all storms,
and survives all panics, and lends money on the dress-suit
of the busted Christian at half the ordinary pawnshop
rates with a dignified resolution which rises superior to
ohanoes and mishaps. No amount of outside panic seems
to make any difference to the Mont de PiCtC.
* * *
There are vague, but persistent, rumours con-
cerning the possible amalgamation of the Union Bank and
the Australasia. If these two huge British institutions
did combine they would pretty nearly own Australasia.
* * *
Queensland, with .£2,000,000 of borrowed money
fixed for a long terra of years in the Q,N. Bank, is now
thinking of another big loan. It will be interesting to
see if the new loan is to be spent in public works, or if it
also is going to be deposited in the cavernous Q.N. Bank,
and left there for ever, or thereabouts.
• * •
Under the heading of “New Insolvent ” the old
story that Muntz has gone bung through the Mercantile
Bank prosecution crops up again in the Melb. papers.
Just about the time of his committal for trial T. B. Muntz
went into liquidation, and now that the Criminal Court
case is at hand his “completeschedule ” serves as a dumb
protest against the awful inhumanity of bank prosecu-
tions. The time is about ripe for further sorrowful par-
ticulars of Matthew Davies’s insolvency.
« # •
What are we to believe? A wire from Hannan’s
says, “Water scarce, selling at Is. 3d. a gallon.” Same
day a wire to hand says, “ Fresh water struck at 160 ft. a
mile from Ivanhoe claim; also, a plentiful supply of
battery water has been met in the Ivanhoe shaft.”
* # *
H. H. Schlapp, late Proprietary assistant general
manager—who ought to know—in an after-dinner oration
at Broken Hill, recently alleged that the mine would not
be shut down unless silver went to Is. per ounce. Last
half-year’s silver cost Is. 2|d.
• * »
B, H. Junction sends more sulphide—soo tons
this time—to Europe, probably to Newcastle-on-Tyne.
This is the third parcel; the two first comprised 1500 and
1800 tons. The same class of ore is already yielding a
profit at the mine smelters at Port Adelaide, where it is
reduced with or without admixture of carbonate.
• * *
South B.H. jigging plant (Hancock’s), lately
Started at the mine, will, it is said, concentrate the bulk
of the mine’s sulphides at a good profit. It is claimed
that ore of 50 per cent, lead, soz. silver, and 15 per cent,
zinc, is concentrated to 70 per cent, lead and 7oz. silver,
and the zino reduced to three per cent, without material
loss of .silver and lead in the tailings—satisfactory, if
true.
Present plant will treat 800 tons sulphides
weekly. The last smelting furnace in blast has been shut
down, and the mine will depend for future profit on its
sulphide concentrates—which will be sold for the present.
“ Hancock’s jigs” are but an elaboration of the
ordinary jigging process known to old copper-miner*.
AH silver-lead sulphides cannot be thus treated.
* # *
A Hill End backer agreed, on a recent Saturday,
to take half a prospector’s claim in return for 255. a week
for two months. On the Monday the prospector struck
it rich, and the backer got £7OO in return for his ten half-
crowns.
• • •
Star of the East last fortnight: 1993 tons, 7280 z.
—a slight improvement; div., Is.
• • *
Dear Bulletin, — Last Friday, 19th Jan., a trial
crushing of nine tons, taken from a winze in the ground of
the Lady Augusta g.m. Lease, yielded 158 oz. smelted gold,
by ordinary battery treatment, 17oz. lldwts. per ton.
Next day 34 tons from the slopes, 400 ft. south of the
winze, yielded at the rate of 2oz. 12dwts. per ton. The
lease is held and worked by a co-operative party of
eleven. During ’93 they raised 240 tons quartz for a
total yield of 7440 z. gold. In ’92 the yield was 10520 z.
gold from about 250 tons. How is that for a record ? In
Jan., ’92, they bought the mine from the original owners,
a limited liability 00., for £3oo.—Shareholder. Bids-
vold, Q.
• • •
# Mount Gabon mine, Pambula, cleaned up for
the fortnight for 117 oz. Bdwt. of gold. But no tonnage
stated.
» # #
The only div. paid in Bendigo last week was
that of the Johnson’s reef—ls.: £l4OO. It is naively
stated, however, that several others mines had substantial
credit balances.
« • •
Later returns from remote fields will cause the
’93 Q. gold output to top that of '92.
# # •
Bayley’s Reward is to be transformed into a
larger company of £480,000 shares of £1 each- with a
London register. It is difficult for the rank-and-file to
gamble in shares that stand at £l7 to £2O each.
# » *
Latest accounts of the new find at Bayley’s
bring water to the mouths of men. The face at 100 ft.
shows the best gold yet seen. “300 oz. were taken out in
two hours, and the specimens had to be cut out with
chisels.” No. 1 South also improves at a depth, and the
reef is sft. wide. And water grows continually scarcer.
However, so long as there is plenty gold, there will be
water. If a miser could but take his money with him, he
could buy water in Sheol.
tt • •
The new find at Cue (W. A.), the New Year’s
Gift, is described as a veritable jeweller’s shop, with a
reef 3ft. thick, stiff with coarse gold. This find, and the
striking of water in the public battery well, together with
the arrival of four more women, have created the biggest
Murchison boom to date.
• # •
Proprietors of Emerald mine, Murchison (W.A,),
are said to have sold to Gibbs, Bright and Co. for £7OOO,
retaining one-sixth in paid-up shares, together with the
machinery and 400 tons stone at grass. Which means
£5OOO per man for twelve months’ work.
# # *
The fall in tin has knocked out several New
England (N.S.W.) mines. Many tin fossickers have had
to abandon their claims, and others are making but a
bare living.
tt tt •
Sunlight, last week, struck the lode in the
bottom tunnel, 3ft. thick, showing gold. By all-round
cutting-down this mine is now run cheaply. If the reef
continues to return Sdwts., it will probably pay 2s. or 3s.
a year in divs.
tt # #
Recent Q. crushings : Gympie—l South Phoe-
nix, 70 tons, 332 oz., 1 div. 5d.: North Smithftdd, 176
tons, 157 oz. ; 7 South Lady Mary, 62 tons, 120 oz. ;
Phoenix p.c. Tribute, 66 tons, 31 oz.; Mount Yanis, 9 tons,
68 oz. Charters Towers -Brilliant Central, 256 tons, 305
oz.; Brilliant Block, 485 tons, 478 oz., div. 6d. ; Victoria
and Queen, 89 tons, 276 oz. ; Victoria, No. 1 shaft, 148
tons, 155 oz. ; No. 2 shaft, 415 tons, 456 oz. ; Stockholm
Tributors, 90 tons, 197 oz.
* * *
Baker’s Creek crushing for lOjdays : 370 tons,
for 7410 z. gold.
The prospectors of Morrissey’s claim, Mudgee,
washed 20 loads dirt for 40oz. gold. Other prospectors
are reported to be making wages only, despite the sensa-
tional reports sent to Sydney.
* # *
Two months ago new life was given Black-
bourne’s mine. Southern Cross, by wires about the strik-
ing of wonderful gold. Capt. Muir, now in charge of it,
wires: “Mine quite worthless; shoot of gold a few feet
wide only ; cannot carry on ; losing money ; all hands paid
off.” Yet a man, a year ago, put £5O into that mine in
preference to taking a big share in Bayley’s, then offered
him for the same amount.”
# * tt
The real history of Bayley’s remains unwritten.
There is to-day a man in N.S.W. who worked on the
Reward from its infancy. He says it was wonderfully
rich in places, but the gold and reef were wedge-shaped.
Bayley had lost faith in (he Westralian reefs. “I have
been had once by refusing a big offer ; never again! ” and
under that resolution he signed for £6OOO, and within a
week got more gold than that out of the mine, 5 6ths of
which he had just sold.
# # #
A miner from Coolgardie writes: “ The day
after to-morrow comes my turn to wash my face. Water
for this purpose can only be spared every fourth day.
This is the fifth week I have had to wear the same shirt
unwashed.”
• * •
Wire: “Just advised Ivanhoe (Hannan’s)
struck splendid stone ; 80 feet assays 60z.” For a long
time the public have been advised that the Ivanhoe had
an abundance of splendid stone ; having once been mis-
taken, if not deceived, Ivanhoe reports are received with
circumspection.
* • *
Lowe’s Log Paddock afc last “ washed 18 loads
for 6oz. 4dwt.” Quite enough if there is plenty of it.
• # »
A call—the eighth—is made by the Town Hill
Mining Co., Dalmorton (N.S.W.)-another mining resur-
rection. It struggles along with the hope of striking gold
by extending a tunnel already driven some 600 ft. If suc-
cessful, the work will be proclaimed as an evidence of
N.S.W. mining pluck ; if unsuccessful, it will be a monu-
ment of folly.
• * m
Despite much boom-effort, Bingera diamond-
mines remain exactly where they were when Streeter, Jilt,
came along. Of him an expert miner says that what he
knows he won’t tell, and if he wants to buy he gives little
or no sign.
# * *
Great Cobar copper-mine let on tribute. Unless
copper jumps in price the tributors will have uphill work
to make anything.
* • #
Bendigo stocks still depressed. South Devon-
hire, Clarence, Dagraar, have had a big fall.
* * #
During the rainy season the Chow chips in on
the Palmer. One Foo Chong recently left there with
£3OOO, his share of an alluvial root-round.
« • #
Croydon output for ’93 is the highest recorded ;
47,905 tons, 71,1210z5. Average yield, loz. 9dwt. 16gr.
A feature of the year’s work has been the introduction of
the cyanide process for the treatment of tailings.
« • *
The average ’93 yield of Charters Towers mines
is lower owing to the falling-off in quality of the stone
raised from some of the principal mines—Victory, Vic-
toria, Brilliant, and others. Nothing fresh in the way of
rich shoots has been met: like all other fields, save
Westralia, the Towers shows a decided tendency towards
a steady drop in yields and divs.
» • •
Ballarat stocks almost dead.
* * •
Hogg goes the whole hog on Coolgardie : “It is
impossible to exaggerate Bayley’s,” and adds that he
knows not why any claim on the field with a reef at all
should be exaggerated, for the very poorest reef seen by
him would pay well.
» * •
The Randt (S. Africa) Nov. yields. 138.6400z5.
the heaviest known ; tonnage, 201,939. Robinson still in
the lead, 87840z5. from 7842 tons, Langlaate Estate is
the great low-grade mine of the Randt. In Nov., 21,736
tons stone for 62190z5. Just over sJdwts., but enough
for divs. Total Transvaal yield for year, 1,600,0000 z.
Next year it is to be 2,000,0000 z.
• • tt
The Randt companies are determined to fight
the right of the cyanide patentees to enforce royalties
unless a fair reduction is made. It is said that the money
paid by several companies for the use of cyanide is equal
to their divs.
* * *
Good gold struck in No. 1 shaft at Cosgrove’s
Bayley’sSouth Mine in what is believed to be a continuation
of Bayley’s Reward reef, at a depth of 40ft. Reef is 3ft.
wide, carries gold throughout stone, which assays up to
lOOoz. per ton.
* • •
The N.S.W. coalmasters, having got the miners
down, evidently mean to keep them down.
• * *
Cobar’s biggest cake of gold up to date (320j0z.
from 198 tons stone) has been banked by George Beard
and party, tributors of the Cobar Mining Co.’s property.
The stone was got out by 10 men in less than two months.
• • m
The Victory United, at Cue (W.A.), has just
erected a 3-head battery, and is going to be heard of.
# # •
The Croesus South is another new W.A. com-
pany, capital £45,000, formed to work the claim of same
name at Hannan’s. The lease adjoins the Croesus, and is
21 miles from the Reward.
# # #
The Star of the East lease, at Hannan’s rush,
30 miles east of Coolgardie, is being floated in Sydney;
capital, £30,000. The vendors, Peet and party, take
15,000 shares fully paid to 10s., 13,000 paid to 55., and
£4OOO in cash. 32,000 shares, to be paid to 55., are offered
to the public: giving £4OOO, less brokerage, to start work.
The lease is 18 acres in area, and there are several reefs.
* * *
Editor Bulletin, —I see it asserted that the
Coolgardie rainfall averages 14 inches annually. I pre-
sume the authority for this statement is some W.A. news-
paper. The surface formation of the country for hundreds
of miles around Coolgardie is in itself sufficient to dis-
prove this. An annual rainfall of 14 inches would have
made creeks, gullies, and other definite watercourses and
waterholes ; would have formed alluvial flats and induced
some edible grasses thereon, but instead of this what do
we see? A district utterly without natural channels,
whereon the only indigenous growth is stunted scrub and
an ephemeral outcrop of wild flowers after a scanty
shower. In the western interior of central Queensland
the rainfall is only from lOin. to 20in., but that is enough
to make the land a very different kind of place from Cool-
gardie. On the Murchison and Gascoyne the residents
only reckon on lOin. yearly, and think themselves lucky
when they get it. Coghlan’s excellent rainfall map of the
continent gives the latest particulars obtainable, and by it
Coolgardie lies in a very droughty region. Moreover, the
saline nature of the soil is against the conservation of
fresh water. I have seen a thunderstorm pool on the
Murchison turn salt in less than half-an-hour ; the upper
Greenough, a sparkling running stream, is simply hrine,
and Coolgardie is far worse than that district in every
way. Probably salt water will be better than none, bub
let people at least know what is before them. I suppose
you are aware that in some parts of Westralia the
residents are so used to brackish water that they don’t
care for fresh when they get it. They say, “it has no
taste.”—Yours, &0., D,
* * »
Already a thousand mines have been registered
in blood-soaked Matabeleland.
# • *
Still another vessel (the barque Helen) is fitting
at Hobart for a whaling cruise. Before there isany attempt
to form the nucleus of a latter-day fleet of blubber
hunters with Sydney as their heme port, the Yankees
from New Bedford will again be sweeping the Southern
whaling ground-*.


DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHAT IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got for sevenpence ; but it the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody conies along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich and
rich ones richer. What say you? Will you do your business at
JJ ORDERN’a 7
ANTHONY HOKDKKN'ID?
SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY TSI
nVY m i:iIYTIIT\O at ISTIt ON Y noitDKUK’S, and
may do yonr shopping, thro ay/, the medium of the post, on
same f/oods at the same prices as if you lived iu town.
■if yon dwell in the country, yon
the same terms and yettiny the
ONLY ADDRESS of thk UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (O NLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
FLETCHER’S PILLS
never fail to cure
INDIGESTION,
COSTIVENESS,
SOUR BREATH,
HEARTBURN,
LIVER DISEASE and
KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
FLETCHER’S PILLS and CLEMENTS
TONIC are the recognised household remedies of
the Australian colonies, and every designing
quack tries to trade on their reputation and re-
nown. This is the greatest proof of their merit,
and sufferers want to be particular to get the
genuine articles as regret and disappointment are
sure to follow the use of the thousands of “All-
failing ” remedies so freely advertised. The re-
putation and wide-spread use of Clements Tonic
and Fletcher’s Pills are the greatest proofs of their
appreciation by the public. If they were not as
represented they would have passed out of memory
long ere this ; but instead, their sale is greater
and they are more esteemed day by day and week
by week, and this emphatically proves their undis-
puted supremacy. Listen to no argument from in-
terested parties ; demand the genuine articles and
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
rfd/dCIK)
JXotadcLcJiv
filksAj A*rruOd4UAJ
ty/loduiX, X
Personal Items.
Cable heading: “A Royal Birth.” A
Royal Berth.
Adam and Eve is the name of a Melbourne
butchering firm.
P- O. Fysh, ’lgb my ’All, ’Obart, is an
anxiously-expectant K.C.M.G.
Murray Smith continually developes his
likeness to Oliver Wendell Holmes.
Mr. G, M‘Gregor, chairman of the S.A.
United Labour-party, is a builder’s labourer.
Mrs. Yates, the Mayor of Onehunga, is
not a widow. She has a husband. Which is
much more clear than saying that Mr. Yates has
a wife.
The clever and highly-educated Miss
Sts well, daughter of the late Victorian Chief Jus-
tice, goes to England soon to be a lecturess at
Newnham.
There are now in the Vic. Legislative
Assembly two representatives of the name of
Murphy, Turner, Carter, Harris, Salmon, Madden,
and Smith.
G. R. Ashton, la*te of The Bulletin, is
now on London Daily Graphic permanent staff,
and is writing and illustrating a series of “ Aus-
tralian Types.”
A Kanaka on Richmond River (N.S.W.)
is proprietor of two sugar-farms, and owns the
largest of the fixed deposits in one of the local
reconstructed banks.
A lad drowned himself recently at Master-
ton (M. L.). In the pocket of his remains was
found this brief communication: ‘‘Father is as
big a d—d fool as ever.”
When a certain actor was reconsunstruck
in Maoriland, he received from an ex-member of
his co. a wire thus : “Sorry to hear of your mis-
fortune, but you deserve it.”
An agreement lately made between a
N.S.W. newspaper proprietor and his editor con-
tains a clause binding the editor to abstain from
ardent spirits five days out of every week.
A certain member of the theatrical pro-
fession is very anxious to gain possession of his
baby. He otfered its ma .£5O for it, but she
“ stuck out ” for £3OO ! A pleasant item in these
days of Makinism.
The S.A. Ministers are anxious that chair-
man Smith, of the local railways, shall get the
vacant Vic. railway appointment. They would
thus save £2500 a year, for Mr. Smith’s place
would not be filled up.
There is some shame left even in Aus-
tralia. A boom-colossus, who compounded with
his legion of creditors for a microscopic sum, has
sailed for Europe, in absolutely Imperial state,
under an assumed name.
StandingforMudgee(N.S.\V.)the late J. H.
Carden taunted John Haynes with having been
born in Cork. “ Ah, then,” replied John, “ we’re
nearly related, for, if I’m a Cork man, you’re a
bottle-man.” The retort told.
Mr. Stanford, of Singer’s Co., brother of
the late Leland Stanford, millionaire and ex-
governor of California, is the principal supporter
of the St. Kilda (Melb.) coal-boring operations—
following a dream-tip, so rumour says.
One Abraham Nable, a would-be aider-
man of Parkes, N.S.W., prints in his half-column
advt. ;“I have nothing to recommend me, except
my ability, honesty, and experience.” Modesty,
in the eternal fitness of things, doesn’t count at
Parkes.
Bruce Smith, who constitutionally objects
to Government interfering between its contractors
and their sub-contractors, stipulated, when sign-
ing the contract for the building of his own private
residence at Bowral, that the contract should not
be sublet.
Cardinal Moran’s point-blank refusal to
allow subscriptions to be raised in his diocese for
the conversion of African negroes, while so much
good work remains to be done in Australia, sounds
a note in discord with all organised evangelistic
societies.
It is believed that more than one young
Australian met his death in the recent wipe-out
of Major Wilson and party by Lobengula. The
Trooper Watson included in the list is said to be
T. C. Watson, only son of Col. Watson (retired),
of Northdown (Tas.).
N.S.W. ex-Treasurer M‘Millan has been
invited to take shares in almost all the newspapers
that have been published in Sydney this last 10
years. The drollery, to him, is that the politics of
the paper were, in every instance, made secondary
to his “joining the firm.”
A man cut his throat at Cheltenham
(Melb.) last week-cause, Joss of £7OO by the
Matt. Larkin frauds. By this time Larkin must
have done at least as much damage as Deeming.
A whole string of spectres are waiting to receive
him in the sweet by-and-bye.
Two young “De Moleynses,” brothers-in-
law of Gov. Hopetoun, grow sugar-cane at “Hara-
bledon, Cairns (Q.), on 150 acres, which they
bought from Swallow, who, in return, takes all
their cane. There were eighteen children besides
themselves in the ancestral halls of Ventry.
Pastor Jefferis baa been unanimously
asked to come back to North Adelaide Congrega-
tional Church, where he preached prior to his
Sydney pastorate, and has decided to do so. He
still writes leaders for S.A. Advertiser, of which,
had he chosen, he might long ago have been editor.
In 1839, during the Birmingham (Eng.)
riots, one of the shops “sacked” was that of a
tobacconist and fancy goods dealer named Parkes.
The “sackers” were convicted and transported
for life to Botany Bay. Curiously enough, it was
in ’39 that Henry Parkes left Birmingham for
Australia.
The will of ex-Premior Abbott, of the
Canadian Dominion, side-headed by the S.M.
Herald as “ a model will,” and introduced with
a variety of eulogistic comments, is certainly a
lerse and admirable piece of composition. But it
bequeaths not a penny of testator’s large estate to
any charitable or benevolent purpose.
Mrs. Snodgrass, who lately died at Mel-
b )urne, mother-in-law of millionaire W. J. Clarke,
was the widow of that old Vic, political identity,’
Peter Snodgrass, a Sydney native and son of
Colonel Snodgrass, a Peninsular veteran, who was
Lieut.-Governor of N.S.W. between the departure
of Gov. Bourke and the arrival of Gov. Gipps.
As a hair dressing and renovator, Ayer’s Hair
Vigor is universally commended. It eradicates
dandruff, cures eruptions of the scalp, invigorates
and beautifies the hair and prevents its fading or
turning grey.
A Hobart larrikin on a certain bishop :
“ Chuck ’im a bloomin’ nut and see if ’e’ll scratch
’isself.”
The Homeric Galton haunts the precincts
of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, and scowls
a Simon Tappertitian (or Tappertitanic) scowl at
all the legislators beneath the rank of a Cabinet
Minister, as who would say, “ Base born minions,
remember that I am the Governor’s strictly
private secretary. But I must dissemble. Ha!
ha !”
Reclus, the geographer, disbelieves
not only in religious but in civil marriage.
Having agreed to the marriage of his two
daughters to a couple of young Polytechnic pro-
fessors, he said to the party, after dinner, “ Now
you are married ’’—and that was all. But then
they might say, at dinner next day, “And now
we are unmarried !”
Frank Madden, returned unopposed for
Melb. Eastern Suburbs (Gillies’ seat), is the third
brother of the family to sit in the Victorian House
of Assembly. One is the Chief Justice, who at
one time represented Port Melbourne; the other
is Walter Madden, member for the Wimmera.
Frank is a rich lawyer, married to a daughter of
the late J. G. Francis.
Parkes thus autobiographically met a con-
troversial question the other day : “I have been
intimately associated in public life with gentlemen
who drank more in one day habitually than would
unfit me for work for a month, and“l cannot say
that their indulgence, except in one or two
instances, materially interfered with the efficient
discharge of their duties.”
An ex-Melbourne
pawnbroker is said to
own the best collec-
tion of stamps in
Australia. He values
it at £5OOO.
Madame Roth,
the accomplished de-
corative artist, so
long a resident of
Sydney, is responsible
for the coloured fron-
tispiece in the Xmas
number of the Pall
Mall Gazette.
The brothers
Rorique, whom every
boy will love as being
two genuine pirates
of the year 1893 (after
running away with
the Tahitian cutter,
Nuroahiti, they cut
the throats of the
captain, the super-
cargo and three
others), made a lamen-
table exhibition of
cowardice when sen-
tence of death was
passed upon them at
Brest, the other day.
The history of these
two brothers should
form the theme of an
exciting South Sea
romance. Most likely
Robert Louis Steven-
son will tackle it—
call the Nuroahiti the
Cock a Leekie, and
the two brothers
Roderick M’Tavish
and Dauvid M‘Whan-
nel; lay the scene in
fie Shetlands, orsome
other unknown part
of Scoatlnnd, and
generally invest the
story with a Hieland
colour and a strong
Caledonian accent.
A Maoriland correspondent to The Bul-
letin “ Her worship Mrs. Yates, of Onehunga,
the first lady Mayor on record, is a woman of
much influence in our community. She has
leisure to attend to public duties, and although
she cannot boast of manship, she is probably
better suited for her present office than any other
person, male or female, in the little borough.”
On Mudgee (N.S.W.) hustings, in 1889,
Reginald Black reminded the electors that he had
married into one of the district squatting families.
Candidate Jack Haynes followed: “ Well, un-
fortunately, I haven’t married a squatter’s
daughter, but that isn’t my fault. If there’s any
thoroughly eligible squatter’s daughter about, Jack
Haynes doesn’t intend to remain a widower.”
Constable King, captor of Jacky-Jacky,
the Dora Dora black (since escaped), is well-known
in N.Q. as one of the most powerful men and best
and most daring bushmen and trackers on the
continent. Wherever a nigger can go, King can
go ; and wherever a nigger can live, so can King.
He was the constable who, during the Kelly reign,
brought to Victoria the Queensland black trackers.
Most mischievous of all idiots is the
medical idiot! Sir Dyce Duckworth, M.D., in
the Humanitarian, strongly advocates the dietetic
use of alcohol, but would punish the abuser
thereof with disfranchisement and —the lash !
Medical baronetcies, by the way, never did go to
the brainy end of the profession, but always to
the “greasers.” “Never employ a titled doctor”
is a safe rule.
Actor Harford, of the Dampier Co., while
travelling, found one morning in the ship’s bath-
room a valuable diamond-ring and returned same
to the owner, a fellow-passenger. “Thanks so
much!” said the bediamonded one—“lucky for
me ” (he had taken Harford for a drummer) “ that
none of those blessed actors got hold of it; I’d
never have seen it again.” Moral: Honesty is
the best policy.
The accomplished Dekker, of Sydney E.
News, has a pretty wit. A contributor who had
embellished an article with a quotation from Bret
Harte’s “John Burns of Gettysburg,” complained
to Editor Hogue that the proof-reader had made
“Death Angle” (where Brown stood “picking
the rebels off”) read “Death Angel.” “Non
angeli sed angli,” murmured Dekker from his seat
in the corner.
Campbelltown (N.S.W.) Herald : “Henry
Copeland drunk would be worth the whole breed of
such people sober. . . . The temperance advo-
cate is nearly always a lantern-jawed, cadaverous,
objectionable creature, who abuses the man who
takes a glass, but will kiss the man’s wife or
daughters if he gets the opportunity of doing so
on the sly. We know them.” “ Wine and women
—wine or women ! ”
Somewhere about 10 p.m. on Saturday,
January 27, a rumour that Premier Patterson had
died, under peculiar circumstances, was circulated
in the neighbourhood of Melb. Princess’ Theatre.
Oddly enough, no mention of Patterson’s move-
ments appeared in the morning papers of the
following Monday and Tuesday, although those
journals had fairly reeked with Pattersonian in-
telligence just previously.
HOIST WITH HIS OWN PETARD.
BARBER: “Your hair’s getting rather thin on top, sir.”
Customer (a dentist) : “ Yes, and I see you’ve lost most of your front
teeth.”
Sylvia Grey’s husband, Fenwick, is not an
Australian, but an enormously rich young Eng-
lishman, and brother of Col. Fenwick, the well-
known sporting man, and one of the Duke of
Portland s set. He was the prey of match-makia£
mammas before his marriage, and his capture by
a worn-out and not overpoweringly-beautiful
dancer shows that, as a bait for the matrimonial
hook, the ballet easily holds first place,
Roberts, the new Yic. hangman, was
in the police-force for two years (The Bulletin
has a photograph of him taken in company with
uniformed comrades), then a temporary gaol-
warder for some months, then a suburban pub-
lican. Probably he will be more successful in his
new vocation. It should thrill the public marrow
to find hangmen and hangmen’s-assistants re-
cruited directly or indirectly from the police-force.
Lieut.-Gov. Samuel Way (S.A.) recentlv
had to name some new counties, &c. Result”:
County “Kintore,” hundreds of “Keith” (one of
Kinty’s numerous names), “May “(Princess May),
“Kevin ’and “Lucy.” The last two are unex-
plainable, but it is presumed they represent in-
dividuals who have aroused little “Sammy’s”
admiration. S.A. now expectantly waits for
“ County Frills,” named after the dog that Lady
Kintore gave to the Chief Justice.
Dear Bulletin,— Whitely, of Westbourne
Grove, is not a “ universal ” provider, as alleged
in the Argonaut article you lately re-published.
He is an undertaker, a photographer, a baker, a
grocer, a milkman, a chiropodist, a tailor, a
company-promoter, a nigger-minstrel purveyor, a
ï


Tone up the system and improve the appetite
by taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It will make you
feel like a new person. Thousands have found
health by the use of this great blood-purifier, when
all other means failed.
aggasarg
w&msss&Bsm
Instantaneous photography !
(:)_
This Hand Camera,
With HALL and TUBE ATTACHMENT,
355.
Samples of Work done by this Instrument, and Illu-
strated Catalogues, post free on application.
BAKER & ROUSE,
375 Ceoroe Street, Sydney (opposite Sydney Arcade).
200 C 01.1.1 ns Street, Melbourne (next to Mullen’s).
40 Queen Street Brisbane.
csi Bun dee Street.. Adelaide.
A large consignment of Indian linen is on
Melbourne market.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
London Figaro describes the late Charles
Mapleson, son of the operatic manager, as a
“ brilliant wit.” The paper supports this allega-
tion with the statement that “indeed, many of
the jokes which appeared in these columns in the
late Seventies and in the Eighties were duly
credited to him.” Mapleson must have been a
terrible wag.
NEURALGIA,
NERVOUSNESS,
TOOTHACHE,
WEAKNESS AND
GENERAL DEBILITY
QUICKLY AND POSITIVELY CURED BY
• CLEMENTS TONIC.
WHICH RESTORES
THE VIGOR, SNAP, AND HEALTH
OE YOUTH.
Mr. A. Rodden, shearer, Cootamundra, N.S.W.,
who writes on June 19th, 1893: —For some time
I have been a great sufferer from pains in the side,
with loss of sleep. Ino sooner lay down and
went to sleep than I woke up with a start, and I
found my heart beating to that extent that I
could hardly breathe. After taking a bottle
of Clements Tonic I found myself as well as ever
I had been in my life. Instead of being incurable,
as my friends told me, 1 found that after one
bottle of Clements Tonic I was entirely cured. I
do not believe at any time that half the people
who are suffering do justice to themselves by fol-
lowing out old world principles. 1 know I have
derived more benefit from Clements Tonic than
from all the other medicines 1 have used hitherto.
As you know palpitation of the heart, in nine
cases out of ten, arises from some derangement
of the liver, I am not going into the various symp-
toms, but this I can say, where all other remedies
failed Clements Tonic performed a thorough cure.
—I remain, yours sincerely, A. Rodden, Coota-
mundra, N.S.W.
The OldßleadL
WTvisKy
ninrnt FROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MCLLOYf
* L * «VATUnID SCOTCH HALT
Edi n bu rg h
POLITICAL POINTS
The sweets of office are the sugar—that
makes the Government-benches so sticky.
“The crimson thread of kinship” seems
to be supplanting “silken bonds” as an official
“gag.”
Nine seats in S.A. Legislative Council
become vacant in April. The Democratic party
hopes to secure six.
“ Anniversary ktey should be altered, even
if we have only a clidim. between Black Thursday
and the Day of Judgment.”— Ale. Bridges
(Melb.)
By an enactment of Solon, inebriation in
a magistrate was made capital. In N.S.W., ine-
briation in a legislator is made capital —for the
evening papers,
N, J. Brown, the defeated ex-Speaker of
Tasmanian Assembly, is doing all he knows to oust
his victorious opponent, Urquhart, the chosen of
the Zeehan miners.
After all, the 141 members of the present
N.S.W. Parliament are more (nor less) moral and
sober than the same number of, say, editors ; or,
better still, clergymen.
Cabled that there is no fear of Bismarck’s
return to power. Let there be war, and, as
Carlyle says of Necker, he is borne back on the
shoulders of a shouting nation.
Failing the return of N. J. Brown, the
defeated ex-Speaker, J, G. Davies, brother of the
Mercury partnership, is spoken of as the pro-
bable next Tasmanian Speaker.
Among N.S.W. members of Parliament,
Dowell says he entered the House at the instiga-
tion of Johh E. Redmond, Inglis at the bidding
of M‘Millan, and John Haynes at the command
of his patriotic conscience.
Several N.S.W. churches now regularly
pray for politicians, naming the unfortunates in
the orisons. One parson lately wound up his
sermon with, “God help him; he means well,
hut his company is bad.”
Five years running a political crisis has
occurred in N.S. W. during the periods set apart
by “ Jack” Want, Q.C., as his holidays. Those
holidays have been taken at irregular intervals,
but the political crises have been just as irregular.
Says Mr. Stout, the political economist,
in Bulwer’s “Money”: “Why, they pay the
Lord Chancellor £lO,OOO a year, and I’ve a second
cousin who would do it for a quarter qf the
money !” Commended to Mrs. Yates, Nightmare
of Onehuuga, and her hungry Town-clerk.
The Bulletin has heard no details of the
rumoured nomination of the new N.S.W. Legisla-
tive Councillors. Little will be known until
recess or dissolution, but it is pretty certain that
the torpid Torpy is being fattened for the position.
He becomes mellower and mellower every day.
The Westminster Gazette uses powerful
language about the conduct of Governor Duff in
granting the Dibbs Ministry a prorogation and not
bouncing it out of office. The editor of the West-
minster Gazette, by the way, is B. R. Wise’s
brother-iu-law. B. R. Wise is a follower of
Parkes.
The “ lady-editress ” of a Melb. paper
expresses her horror because, in an “ alleged loyal
and musical community,” nobody was able to
play the so-called “National Anthem” at the
conclusion of a recent local entertainment. The
healthiest item that has come from Melbourne for
four years.
When the Queensland, Victorian and other
Labour M.’sP. visited Sydney lately, they mad®
free use of their railway passes, but they were not
banqueted out of the public funds. Now, why
should a person like M‘Kenzie Bowell be so
banqueted and visitors like these left to live in
restaurants ?
B. R. Wise’s latest splurge is for a penny
on land-values with the remission of all other
taxation except dues on spirits and narcotics.
But why tax spirits and narcotics and leave
jewellery, for instance, untaxed? What is, with
such economists, the principle that school of arts
debaters call basic ?
An English visitor recently remarked to a
N.S.W. statesman that, after listening to a debate
in the Assembly, he had come to the conclusion
that there was a good deal of “ rough and ready
eloquence.” “1 won’t plead guilty to the
‘ rough,’ ” replied the statesman, “ but I admit
that it’s damnably ready.”
“Our newspapers,” remarks a London
paper, “are just waking up to the fact that the
Chartered Company, once Lobengula has gone,
owns, or will own, perhaps the grandest country
in the entire world—about 2000 miles long, and
nearly that across, and most certainly destined for
an English or American population.”
West Australian disgust with the Forrest
syndicate grows deeper and wider and thicker.
The other day, 150 working miners signed a peti-
tion for the remission of an offender’s sentence, and
were snubbed. Then the prisoner’s friends moved
four “influential” people to make the same
request, and it was granted at once.
Robert Reid’s mission has been discovered
at last. He tells Sheffield (Eng.) Chamber of
Commerce that “ the financial crisis in Australia
was brought about by previous disturbances and
interruptions of Australian trade through the
action of trades-unions.” A poor, weak, dodder-
ing lie, but it has seen much service.
Wanted the names of honourable, legal
and other gentlemen in the Vic. Assembly who,
haying compounded with their creditors, and
being fully aware that they can’t sit in the present
House, have retained their places with the conni-
vance of their law-making friends. Let us see,
what is the penalty for voting in the Assembly of
which you are not legally a member?
Parkes, junior, who advocates the estab-
lishment of N.S.W, State-schools for the teaching
of politics, pronounces undying hostility to pay-
ment of members. Which is equivalent to found-
ing technical schools for the teaching of architec-
ture, and maintaining that when the architects
are qualified they shall work gratuitously.
“Now that N.S.W. Minister Suttor has
peremptorily excluded children under six from
the State schools, how, if the ukase continue, will
the next crop of N.S.W. adults compare, educa-
tionally, with those of Queensland and Victoria
where children of three years are admitted to the
school ? ” enquires a Bulletin correspondent.
“To represent all the people the Parlia-
ment must represent each section in proportion to
their numbers. In N.S. W. roughly 80 per cent,
of the adults work for wages. In order that
Parliament should represent all the people eight
out of ten of the men in Parliament ought to be
what were described as Labour members.”—
Trenwith.
The rumours about the failure of Glad-
stone’s health have crystallised into a definite
statement that he is about to retire from politics.
Shuffling to the last, the old man admits that he
is getting blind and deaf, but denies that he
intends retiring. This is, however, only the usual
Gladstonian denial, intended to let the Liberals
down easily.
Varney Parkes, M.P., was right when he
averred, in N.S.W. Parliament the other night,
during discussion on Labour-member Bavister’s
motion against sub-letting Govt, contracts, that
the system generally bankrupted the sub-con-
tractor. By this iniquitous sweating-system a
Govt, contractor recently made 2/6 per yard, over
and above his tender, out of the removal of some
earthwork. Sub-contractors now hup work.
A Land taxw ill not
reach the wealth of
■ Daniel Cooper, Bart. ;
who, according to an
authority, draws
£85,000 perannum from
his Sydney properties.
His leases are so worded
that any such tax will
fall on the lessees, and
most of his property is
leased out. An Absen-
tee-tax alone will do
the deed.
Premier Patterson
(Yio.) said, at the
Gillies banquet, that
the country will come
out all right “if we
can only banish selfish-
ness, and let every man
have the fixed idea and
the resolute purpose of
living, not for himself
alone, but for others.”
It is a lovely thing to
hear the old, callous,
hard-faced boomers
swapping these lovely
sentiments as the grease
and the wine trickle
down their beards, and
they kill the fatted
champagne-bottle, and
appoint each other to
good billets at the pub-
lic expense.
One Dr. Bakewell,
of Auckland (M.L.),
writes to the Nine-
teenth Century that
95 per cent, of the peo-
ple of Maoriland had
no desire for and took
no sort of interest in
female suffrage. This
is interesting, no doubt,
but Dr. Bakewell isn’t
personally acquainted
with 95 per cent., or
even five per cent., of
the people, and con-
sequently doesn’t know
what they wanted, and
he would be quite as
reliable if he announced
that 84J perjeent. of the
population object to the
theory that the devil’s
tail is spiked at the
end.
“ The Americans of 1776 had not emerged
very far from the savage hunter state; and so
they gave us a Nation and a Republic. If they
had possessed the cultured frame of our minds
to-day, they would have regarded it as a species
of insanity to think of going to war, barefooted
and in rags, for eight years for a principle.
Ignatius Donnelly.
No member of any secret society should
hold the position of J.P. Yet it is the usual
thing, in at least some of the Australias, to make
the big boss Oddfellows, Ancient Druids, &c., &c.,
magistrates, for the sake of their societies, that
they may adjudicate between the man who is a
“ brother ” and the outsider. That, anyhow, is
how it strikes the outsider,
“If an individual be without property
and not supported by public or private benefac-
tions, he must, unless a robber, be considered
industrious. But a man of property has no such
assurance in his favour. A poor man, so circum-
stanced, has therefore a much better right to vote
than a rich man on the mere account of contribut-
ing to the State.” — Ensor.
“Sir Thomas M‘llwraith’s policy is to make
big contracts, to create vast estates, to encourage
the creation of great monopolies, to gamble with
the resources of the colony, to introduce into the
colony two classes of people only—great capitalists
and poor labourers, and generally to act as the
high priest of the great God of Mammon. —o. W.
Griffith, 10th August, 1883.
Scratch a freetrader’s pocket and you find a
protectionist. Scratch a protectionist’s pocket and
you find a freetrader. For instance, how would
the N.S.W. protectionists who happen to control
the salt-import trade like to see salt-works estab-
lished locally under the aegis of the present £1 a ton
“ revenue” duty? Salt manufacture is coming.
If it comes, and the so-called “ freetraders” return
to power, will they abolish the duty ? Hey !
In Wyoming (U.S.A.), where woman is in
her most emancipated condition, juries used to
be selected from both sexes indiscriminately.
The practice has now dropped out of use. The
last time a mixed jury was empannelled, a hus-
band complained to the Legislature about his
wife having been looked up all night with eleven
good men and true, and the obvious damage to
her character led to the abolition of the system.
AFTER THE HOLIDAYS.
JONES: “ You don’t look like a man who has been away for the benefit of
his Health ; you seem to be suffering.”
Brown : “I am, old man—suffering a recovery.”
. S.A. Register, Sept. 12, ’9l :
The right of private property in land has been recog-
nised . . . hut there can he no actual injustice to
anyone in saying to ( he present landowner, whether large
or small: “You shall have no greater right to property
in land than that which exists at the present moment.”
. . . We are speaking, of course, of the bare land,
and not of improvements, wtiich, being the product of
labour, should continue to be the property of those who
made them or purchased them.
Now, the Register’s ears are longer.
Metaphor from Campbelltown (N.S.W.)
Herald
And now a mushroom, the growth of a foetid atmosphere
which unfortunately enveloped New South Wales nearly
three years ago and left in its train a pestilential excres-
cence which has polluted the political arena, and who vyas
totally unknown to political life until that life carried
with it £6 per week, mounts his hobbyhorse and tries to
bespatter a man whose shoes he is not worthy to unfasten.
What are the three-headed calf and the fat woman
compared to a mushroom on a hobbyhorse bespat-
tering Copeland?
Neild, M.P., is distinctly responsible for
the recent fiasco over the “ hauling-up ” of Editor
Hogue for “ contempt ” in ascribing gambling,
&c., to members of N.S.W. Parliament. Having
got Hogue on one horn of a dilemma, himself on
another, and (assuming a dilemma to have mora
horns) the House on another, his only attempt ta
solve the difficulty was to move that the witness
be adjudged guilty of contempt. And when that
was carried he voted in the main against any
punishment for the contempt, which consisted in
the witness refusing to answer an absurd question
put by Jawbone C. Neild himself.
Melb. Tram Co. autocratically denies its
men the right of keeping shop. Tram-men must
be tram-men only, and their wives must be
nothing in particular. Any tram-man having a
shop in his family is ignominiously “ fired.” The
gripman or conductor whose industrious wife runs
a green-grocery or a lolly-stall is a comparatively
independent individual who may actually assert
himself when wages are to be lowered ; therefore,
presumably, he is not to be endured for an instant.
The Bulletin mentions this matter in order to
aid the movement for handing the State railroads
of Australasia over to “private enterprise.”
Baker, Minister for Education, Vic., has
raised a storm by denying State school teachers
pay when on sick-leave. Last year sick-leave pay
amounted to <£10,783. The Minister contends
that sick pay is unhealthy, and statistics show
that it has made teachers singularly susceptible to
colds. Meanwhile, the judges, who are also an
unhealthy race, and the Ministers, and the
Governor, and others, all continue to be much
indisposed, and to draw their salaries right
through their indisposition, in the good old way.
Also, the Agent-General isn’t feeling very well
a great part of the time, but that makes no
difference.
In Queensland, during 1886, there were
573 deaths out of a total Kanaka population of
about 9750. In 1887, 520 died out of 8723. In
1888, there were 482 deaths out of 9200. Next
year (1889) the deaths were 481 out of 8460. In
1890, the mortality was 417 out of 9200 ; and in
1891 the deaths numbered 483 out of a total of
about 9400 islanders. Also, 435 somehow went
amissing in the six years. Queensland will never
become a Kanaka-ridden country ; the man from
the leprous South Sea isles dies too quickly in the
atmosphere of the gentle planter. Even if all
Polynesia were sifted through it, the result would
only be so much more dead islander to fertilise
the sugar-canes.
Sydney Evening News booms one “U.
Carpenter, J.P.,” as a God-fearing candidate of
the highest moral character and possessed of “a
solid Christian temperance record,” who will
exercise an unparalleled influence for good if he
gets into the Assembly. The News publishes a
whole column of gush about the greatness of this
obscure person, and illustrates it with a picture of
a hardfaced man of square, red, aggressive forma-
tion, with a shaven upper-lip, and a huge mat of
hair around his countenance. This is the God-
fearing candidate in his most terrible shape, and
The Bulletin hopes that it will be a warning to
the community. He who politically trusts the
man with the shorn upper-lip is lost. He who
politically trusts the aggressively moral candidate
or the man named U. is also lost. And when all
three horrors are combined in one man, they make
a truly awful combination.
The Australian Vigneron points out the
serious decline in N.S.W. liquor-revenue;—lB9o,
<£2,216,375; 1892, £1,190,014; 1893, £1,013,635.
The falling-off is chiefly in spirits, the totals of
which are-1890, £827,314 ; 1892, £813,779 ; 1893,
£685,404. What is the reason ? Not a decrease
in drinking habits, but the excessive duty of 14s.
per gallon, which encourages wholesale illicit dis-
tillation all over the province. The few discoveries
made by the police and the Customs officers are
but drops in the ocean. “ Somewhere in Sydney
white spirit is being distilled by the hogshead.
We lately had brandy imported at half-a-crown a
gallon. Now there are regularly placed on the
market monthly consignments of whisky at Is. 9d,
a gallon, and the Govt, analyst is compelled to
admit that it contains nothing unlawful. It
only maddens those who drink it, and heaps up
the sins on the publican’s head. High duties
mean bad spirits. In the U.S.A., when the
excise is 90 cents a gallon, the whisky is
good. The Government now proposes an extra
ten cents, and the merchants already point out
that the extra excise will mean inferior whisky.
How would they appreciate 14s. instead of 4s. ?”
PARKES’ SEAT.
ì
tion of Melb. Argus founded on certain wild
statements by a writer in Chambers’ Journal.
However, seeing that there have never been any
signs of a few enormously rich people in yietoria,
where the many were doing very well until lately,
this alleged condition of America may be an
argument against Ereetrade for all one knows to
the contrary.


Iwi-m CUjT'g^E
1 Albpry, Wednesday. Atriongst the
mourners who followed the remains of the
late W. Stuckey, «an old pioneer, from Wo-
donga on Monday to the Anbury cemetery,
was a Chinaman who for more than 15 years
had proved himself a faithful servant to the,
deceased. . When the funeral cortege arrived';
at the Custom-house on this side pf. the,
river, however, .the Customs officials abso-
lutely refused to allow jhe Chinaman to
proceed further . payment of the
poll tax, although several persons present
offered to give their personal guarantee that
the man would return to Wodonga the same
evening. As- the Customs officers were
inexorable the Chinaman turned back.
rfuiw
'ftp A
5o
S'£ f
xOO '
0^
<• / C°^
f RESHMFNT RO O M
1 ' Mr. FITZGERALD : The gentleman who I >/n * ,
had made (such serious charges had frater- IOU f P S
nised with his accuser in the refreshment- / ,
ytf >\V>
vV Ou fcT" jrlpljj
h
sC/ « /
Loxtox, Wednesday, 3 p.'m.—The
Pall Mall Gazette, to-day states that Mr.
Gladstone intends to resign the Premier-!
ship. I
Ihe reasons that the paper assigns foil
this important step are old age and disap-|
pointment at the failure of the
Horne itule Bill.
filimot drawn] § aw^gss - muck
flfpst Silfat)
/ 1 J — r -——
bonds
cfc-
eft'- ,
th
&
i
4-
JJiUj- Do
/j £ar Mm if you t>et:
V"? - ' (l " e 1 Jou n)u.stjl~Kfo /fciacty
/^/c P 2, T Hypoh’’-
W jfr >k UUra 1/in.i i
Ca f> ' % *?y
jL }
r "f/m \r
w hf- C,o' / e rf . . . rr
(^'^ ,t ? U l 3 our TcL^tr
THINGS IN GENERAL.


ì
RND
Qr- H t
í
ì
15^5:
ì
■7 os:^
ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY FOR MOSES ROBERT RETT).
“Mr. Reid said it was the fervent desire of colonists that a time would come when ever and anon multitudes would move from Great Britain to Australia ...
Sixty per cent, of the trades-unionists in Victoria were recently out of work. Australia, added Mr. Reid had sown her wild oats, and was entering upon a
new career of prosperity.”


WEST AUSTRALIA.
FORTUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those
who bought Land in Sydney, Melbourne, Ade-
laide, and Brisbane years back, and Fortunes are
waiting for those who buy now in BERTH (the
capital city) and ALBANY, WEST AUS-
TRALIA.
GRAND VIEW ESTATE, PERTH, 70 feet
frontage x 132 deep, for TEN POUNDS; Easy
Terms.
DARLINGTON ESTATE, ALBANY, Acre
blocks, from ,£l5 each; Easy Terms. CENTRAL
CITY LOTS, PERTH, from £4O each ; Easy
Terms.
Titles guaranteed perfect. Nor forfeiture if ill
■or oua of work. Send for plans and copy of
Government Map showing the true position of the
land.
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY (Established, Perth and Sydney,
1885), 309 Pitt-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
í
underfill discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
BYE LOT TOW,
rnHIS Lotion cures Sirellin/ / and Sandy Itliyht,
* In flamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sly hi.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
slrenyfhrns the siyht, liy post, -is. per liottle.
KST" Manufactured Solely liy 11. itO'IC. ( lieinisl,
&31 OEOHOE cr-TUKKT, SVDNKY.
ToThk Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings. Hi) Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Scorn
Scrubby
Imitations
Sold by
Scurrilous
Scoundrels
Drink only
WOLFE’S
Schnapps
Buy Whole i
Bottles
and look
out for
£ l
1
Orders.
Sociery
O’Rcgan, the newly-elected member for
Inangahua (M L.), had a celebration the other
day. His constituents got up a tremendous ball
in honour of his return, and he had to attend, but,
being unable to dance a single step, he simply sat
with his head against the wall and looked miser-
able. By-and-by a stout lady with a stout infant
was invited to dance, and, not being able to dance
with the infant, she gave it to the triumphant
member to hold for her, without allowing him
time to remonstrate. And there sat O’Regan,
M.H.R., feebly saying “ketchy-ketchy ” to a
strange and rather aggressive baby, and looking
as wretchedly unlike the hero of the occasion as
could be imagined. A lot of things like this are
going to happen now. Every woman in Maori-
land has a vote.
* • #
A very dashing, recently-made Victorian
widow somewhat astonished her friends by not
assuming mourning for the departed. The moral
of which is that affectionate husbands should,
before dying, burn all letters—if they don’t
burn them immediately after reading them.
# * #
The S.M. Herald, which, while it had a
practical monopoly of the news business of
Sydney, used to shriek about “the sanctity of
private life ” and the wickedness of “invading the
privacy of our homes,” is now engaged in a fero-
cious weekly “Society News” struggle with its
morning rival. Up to date the Telegraph is
viewed with most favour by the bailiff’s wife
whose friends tendered her an agreeable surprise-
pxrty last Friday night; also by the senior-con-
stable’s lady who wore the pink-and-white confec-
tion cut bias at the good-bye social tendered by
her numerous friends to Miss Gobson, eldest
daughter of the esteemed head of the well-known
Jindabyne bakery - firm. But the Herald’s
society column is by no means to be sneezed at.
It is frigid and stately, and founded exclusively
on the doings of the select circles of Government
House and Moss Vale, to which latter place, we
read, Miss Smith (or somebody) was accompanied
the other day “by her faithful old maid Mary
Anne.” Alas for the days of that faithful old
bought nigger, Aunt Chloe !
BRUTAL CANDOR.
SPLASH : “ Well, sonny, would you like to be an artist and paint pictures
like that ? ”
RUSTIC YOUTH : “Like that ! I should hope not; it’s the worst daub I
ever see.”
Church-going creditors in the defunct
Bank of Van Diemen’s Land are intensely
shocked at lottery - manager Adams enclosing
sweep-circulars with the notices of the legalised
raffle for the bank assets. The lottery, they say,
is legalised by Act of Parliament —but to be con-
nected in any way with a common horse-racing
gamble is a slur on the national honour.
mm*
A man is not permitted in Melb. Public
Library without his coat. A recent visitor who
found the place too hot for comfort removed his
coat to handle some of the weighty tomes, and
was promptly ejected for refusing to put it on
again. “ You’ll be taking off your boots and
socks next,” snorted the official.” There was a
healthy time in Victoria when a coat was con-
sidered ridiculously supererogatory, and nobody
but a hero would dare to wear a nail-can hat.
Now the coatless man is an outcast, and the soft-
felt hat is a handicap in every walk of life.
* * *
Governor Hopetoun, opening a Diocesan Festival, a
Ballarat, said it might appear somewhat singular that the
as a Presbyterian, should be there, but as the representa-
tive of Her Majesty his religion was catholic in character,
and—haw! —wished well to all Christian denominations
Tears ago, when Marcus Clarke was sub-
librarian at Melb. Public Library, an attendant
reported to him that there was a man in the place
who had taken off his boots and refused to put
them on again. Marcus interviewed the bootless
student: “It behoves not a Christian gentleman
thus to comport himself.” “Sir,” replied Blank
(he now runs a paper down South), “ I am neither
a Christian nor a gentleman.”
• * *
Dear Bulletin, —“ Why don’t w omen
like beards ? ” Women do ! What men were ever
more admired of the sex than those splendid, red-
blooded Iflth century fellows who wore their
beards much as we wear ours. Your true
moustache-worshipper is the she-hobbledehoy who
finds her ideal masculine phiz in the hairdresser’s
dummy or the saucer-eyed London Journal
duke. —M.
Editor Bulle-
tin,—Let me show
how it is the British
navy cannot be
manned. Scene :
H.M.S. Plumper in
dry dock, getting
overhauled. Act 1.
Paint ad. lib. A
blue jacket gets his
trousers soiled and
goes to a drum of
kerosene; takes a
small piece of serge ;
saturates serge with
oil about a tea-
spoonful—tries to get
the paint out of his
trousers. Alongstalks
First-Lieutenant
Messer, and, i n
autocratic tones, de-
mands : “ Whoauthor-
ised you to go to
that drum?” Shell-
back answers not.
. “ Quartermaster ! ”
yells Lieutenant
Messer, “put this
man in the report.”
Act 2. Quarter-deck
H.M.S. Plumper.
Captain Know-all
and Firs t-L ieu t.
Messer in attendance.
Blue-jacket toes the.
mark charged with
larceny of kerosene-
oil. Explains circum-
stances—spoonful oil,
cleaning trousers—no
avail ! Found guilty
—Captain and his
Messer acting as
judge, jurymen,
prosecutor and wit-
ness. Sentence:
“Fourteen days (10
a.)” —which being in-
terpreted means, cul-
prit must work from
4 a.m. to 10 p.m. (six
hours sleep, 10 to 4).
No grog—no liberty
—no tobacco —no
smoke for 14 days.
Work! Work!
Work ! That is one
of the reasons why
it is so difficult (vide cable) to man the British
navy.—L.
* * m
The Speight testimonial still keeps ahead,
while the Syme testimonial crawls. The four
columns of admiring correspondence in the Agk
have dwindled down to about half-a-column, and
the wildly enthusiastic language which these
remaining correspondents use is woefully out of
keeping with the 6d. in stamps generally enclosed.
Meanwhile, each party broadly insinuates that the
other party writes the letters himself—that he is
his own enthusiastic admirer, and forwards his
own 6d. to himself as a proof of his profound
admiration for his own spotless integrity. This,
if true, shows a melancholy lack of originality on
both sides. What each party ought to do is to
send his Gd. to the other fellow with a letter
expressive of warm personal friendship, and date
the communication from a Chinese den, or a
“ disorderly house,” or some such place. Then he
could write to his own paper and point out the
sort of people that the other follow evidently
consorted with.
• • •
At a meeting of the creditors of Miss
Ryan, grocer. Parnell (Auckland, M.L.), Dec. 22,
debtor stated that she had to resort to a money-
lender. Result of her transactions with him during
the last two years: Borrowed in all, ,£4B; repaid
at various times as per receipts, .£B4 Bs, ; amount
still claimed, .£ll4 9s. Every child ought to be
CAICEDO, the wire-walker.
taught two things at State-school : the Lord’s
Prayer and the compound-interest table. A
proper equilibrium might then be maintained
between the Gentile and the Jew,
« # •
Scene I.; A Coolgardie hotel-bar. T>rama-
tis personae Pretty barmaid, other barmaids,
digger-artist and other diggers. Digger - artist
much smitten by pretty barmaid. Pretty bar-
maid snubs digger-artist. Scene 11. : Several
diggers discovered sitting opposite same hotel,
among them digger-artist. Night dark and hot.
Pretty barmaid comes to bar-entrance to get a
little air. She is lightly clad in silk blouse,
muslin skirt and Strong light in bar behind.
Delight of diggers. Digger-artist sketches pretty
barmaid. Scene III.; Revenge of digger-artist.
• • •
The semi-dressed human advfc. system
spreads. A Bourke-street (Melb.) shoe-man shows
in his window, as a “draw,” a small male
aboriginal of about 15 years. There are plenty of
boots alongside him, but he wears none—in fact,
he only sports a white cotton handkerchief and a
spear. Why shouldn’t some enterprising shop-
keeper exhibit a nice young gin of about 15 years,
or, if preferable, a young white girl clothed in a
cotton handkerchief and a sewing-needle, say ? It
would be just as decent.
* * *
A fashionable convict, in England, has
disclosed a plant of .£l5OO on condition of his
being supplied with a .£5 set of new teeth to
worry the junk. This is eminently suggestive.
Begad, let’s take out Larkin’s molars one at a
time.
• • •
The telephonometer—an instrument for
the registration of the time of each customer’s
confabulation —will shortly be introduced from
Germany into Australia. A limit will then be
imposed on the ululation of the gasbag whenever
he opens his mouth.
* * *
An original and wildly-gifted youth from
N.S.W. recently transpired in Maoriland. His
father left him when he was only six years of age,
and was never heard of again. At the age of 18
the youth heard a rumour that the old man was
somewhere on the other side, and he went over in
search of him, and solemnly put his foot through a
big plate-glass window at Timaru, so that his sor-
rowing parent might see his name in the police
reports, and claim him. Yet even this great idea
isn’t so new as it looks. It was discounted long
ago by that brilliant Frenchman who fired at
President Grevy—and only missed his brains by
an inch or two —in order to draw public attention
to a new method of stuffing mattresses.
* * *
Melbourne Standard charges Mrs. Knorr,
now of the Shining River, with having added
poetry to her other sins, and publishes some verses
which she is basely accused of having written in
her last hours. There is such gratuitous idiocy
about these verses —they are so hopeless and pur-
poseless and gruesomely maudlin—that their want
of any semblance of authenticity may be taken
for granted. The woman who could write them
would never have died by anything so material
as a rope and an executioner. She would have
wailed herself to death at an early age, of mingled
tearsandconsumption, and havebeenlaidout gently
in a white frock with a white flower on her bosom,
like that sainted creature whose name is generally
Ann Jane Smith, about whom every country
curate tells a piteous tale to the local Sunday-
school.
# • •
Dear Bulletin, —Briefly, In reply to
“A.” (1) Though I attacked, for general hyper.
criticalness, the assailer of “I quite forgot,” &c.’
I neither defend nor use that particular expres*
sion. (2) The idiom of the language does require
the use of many tautologies which contribute
neither strength nor perspicuity— e.g., ‘‘lntervene
between”—(“come between between !”) (3) The
derivative distinction about which “ A.” professes
to enlighten me is a disputed one, and, even were
it not, “How do you do?” would still remain
verbal nonsense for the many who are leas etymo-
l9^' resplendent than “A.” (4) “A.” is
r '& ht obvmusJy not, in his case, Verbum
sa P ien^l to be wise . -Verbum.
* * *
“ Mr. Thomas Bent, auctioneer and estate
agent,” reads an advt. in a Melb. paper,
The case of Mrs. Finney,
a Sydney lady who has just
been consigned to the In-
dustrial School, is a melan-
choly example of what may
happen to a bride in N.S.
Wales. This down-trodden
defendant had been reared
at the Industrial School,
and on reaching a com-
paratively mature age was
indentured out as a domestic.
By-and-bye, however, she
fell deeply and profoundly
in love with Finney, and
eloped from her servitude in
the kitchen to marry him.
Then the police followed her
up, and when she had been a
wife and the possessor of a
happy home for a very few
days she was dragged away
by a minion, and Delohery,
S.M., sent her back in
custody to her old quarters
as if she had been a refrac-
tory child in a short frock.
The law, in fact, dropped
very heavily on this young
wife, and only spared her
one possible indignity —it
didn’t offer her a piece of
bread and jam to eat, by
way of consolation, on the
way back to her cage. At
latest, Mr. Finney was
cooking his own solitary
tea in his own solitary
home, and reflecting seri-
ously on how a paternal
Government was ordering his
wife about and keeping her
in a state of cast-iron dis-
cipline, and feeding her on
bread and scrape, and send-
ing her to bad at 9.30, and
possibly black - holing her
when she was refractory and
wanted to assert her status as a married lady.
# • #
cargo of women is on the road to West
Australia, shipped to Govt, order, and not a day
before they were wanted. Women on VV. A. golds
fields are almost as scarce as water, and many,
many times more precious. Any passable woman
is sure of 19 offers in the first fortnight at Cue or
Coolgardie; but, for the present, adventurous
girls had better prospect for husbands at Cue. The
Coolgardie swains are just now very badly
washed.
* * *
The Bishop of Eiverina told the late
Church Congress that a weak spot in the average
parson was his wife. Bank clerks and policemen
were not allowed to marry until they could prove
themselves able to keep wives, and the Bishop
thought—lovely sequence; bank clerks, police-
men, parsons !—there should be a similar restric-
tion on the clergy. All very well for the bishops,
but what of the great multitude of uninfluential
shepherds? His wife is the only solace possessed
by many a poor devil of a bush_ parson, and he
won’t give her up for the whole episcopal bench,
# # #
They tell a funny story of a magniloquent
an( j close-fisted Southern potentate, who, when he
last “ tripped ” from the province, a year or two
ago, farewelled magnificently in public, and spoke
in glowing terms of the good times coming for
Australia. Next day he called in his depart-
mental heads and told them all to cut everything
right down to the bone, as the season would be
an infernal bad one,
# # *
A gymnast, engaged in difficult balancing
feats, generally comes off best when he does not
see himself closely watched by the girl of his
heart—the pretty girl whose loving parents con-
sider it inadvisable that she shoiild accept the
handsome present he has sent her,
* « *
Another Austral Salon story. The Salon
once got a bad attack of- Hindu philosophy, and
several members promised to get up the subject
and read papers. The first one was read by the
wife of a well-known lecturer. Now, some of the
male associates, caring nothing for Hindu philo-
sophy as an entertainment, conspired to nip this
Hindu business in the bud. Therefore, as soon
as the first paper was read and discussion was
called for from the chair, one wicked male
attacked the facts of the paper very fiercely
and was succeeded by another who followed
up the same tactics. These two men
slung round dates in a free and easy way
No narrow sectarian notions
Must regulate vice-regal piety ;
A Gov. in his noble devotions
Is bound to believe in variety.
He’ll quake to a Quaker,
Or shake to a Shaker,
With strictly impartial sobriety.
The Wesleyans, slippy and soapy,
Who hug the young lambs they are tethering,
May look for the blessing of Hopey
On each giddy Sunday-school gathering.
He’s such an adaptist
He’ll bap to a Baptist,
Or groan with the grim Plymouth Bl ethering.
The faith of bold William, the Norman,
He praises witli canny simplicity.
He thinks that old Brigham, the Mormon,
Was strong in domestic felicity.
By no prejudice bound,
He’s religious all-round.
For his billet compels catholicity.


The All Nations sale at Hordern’s, Pitt-at.,
Sydney, continues with unabated vigour, and the
busy throng that crowds the doors daily is striking
evidence of its growing popularity. Each depart-
Jnent is replete with the choicest novelties,
v isitors from all nations continue to admire the
products, and the brilliant patriotic emblems of
all nations. Country friends are particularly
invited to take this rare opportunity of selecting
from immense and varied stocks the choice
bargains which will tend to make homes happy.
For 15d. in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Waning.”
Paling & Co.’s
XMAS ANNUAL!
Just Published. No. 9.
Price, Is. Pull Music Size. Artistic Title Page.
Contents:
AFTER THE BALL (The great American success)
Sung by Miss Mattie Allan (Jubilee Singers) and
Miss Maggie Moore.
THERE’S NO ONE LIKE MOTHER TO ME
Popular Christy Song
DEAR LITTLE JESSIE
Sung by Mr. Harry Clay (Rickards’ Co.)
THE LETTER THAT NEVER CAMP
Sung by Mr. John Lindsay (Tivoli Co.)
LOVE’S FIRST WHISPER (A pretty Ballad)
Sung by Miss Nellie Stewart.
OSBORNE QUADRILLES (of world-wide popularity)
PHtEBE MORELL (“ I Had a Dream ”)
Pathetic English Ballad.
SOUTHERN CROSS MAZURKA
By Composer of “ Of the Past” and “After the Ball”
Waltzes.
WHERE IS MY BOY TO-NIGHT?
Minstrel Song with Chorus.
HEARTS AND HOMES (Blockley’s well-known Ballad)
TIPPERARY CHRISTENING (Irish Comic Song)
G OOD-BYE (Sweet Little Ballad)
MINUET DON GIOVANNI
(Danced in Romeo and Juliet)
SUNSHINE WILL COME AGAIN
Vocal Waltz with Yodel (Miss Maggie Moore’s Latest
Success).
DUET “1L TROVATORE,” known as “ Home to our
Mountains.”
OCEAN MEMORIES WALTZ, Pretty and Fascinating
(Written specially for Paling and Co.
■WT. H. Paling Jfe 00. (Ud.),
Piano, Groan and Music Warehouse,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY:
And at Newcastle, Brisbane and .Toowoomba.
that astonished the Salonites, and quoted weird-
sounding names as those of great authorities on
the subject in the most familiar manner. The
fierce criticisms of these two filled the remaining
members with fear of wrath to come, and no more
papers on Hindu philosophy were read. As a
matter of fact, these conspirators were inventing
both facts and dates on the spot, and the names of
their authorities were simply the names of well-
known Oriental languages— e.g., Hindi, Tamil,
Telugn, Pali, Gujarati, &c. Names like that and
a free use of dates really do make a speech sound
very terrific.
Robert Pouting, sole survivor of the Alert
disaster, when asked if he could suggest any im-
provements in life-buoys, replied that he thought
something might be invented to protect persons
wearing them when washed against the rocks. He
also said that they were impediments to swimming
as they kept people too high out of the water.
The new style of life-buoy will have, firmly lashed
to it, a small jar of Liebig’s extract of beef, some
chewing tobacco in a water-tight tin, a flask of
rum, and a volume of Clark Russell.
» # #
Twelve months imprisonment is the latest
Melbourne fashion in sentences. It is served out
impartially to all grades of criminals, from the
man who commits robbery with violence down to
the party who merely looks superciliously at a
policeman.
* • •
Panton, P.M., of Melbourne, told a local
shopkeeper, the other day, that he was liable to a
fine of £lO for hanging boots outside his door.
The temptation thus offered is too great in a city
the majority of whose inhabitants “are on their
uppers.”
• • »
Australia has been sick ever since it was
cabled that Emperor William had kissed and
otherwise slobbered over Bismarck, who despises
him but kissed him back. Just as if it were a
meeting between the respective Mayors of Sodom
and Gomorrah. Ugh ! One thing is to be said in
favour of J. Bull, He never kisses a man—and
never loses a chance of kissing any nice woman.
• * «
It’s a hard life on Nan nine goldfield
(W.A.J, but death is just as hard. There is no
sawn timber to be bad, and the coffin of the most
aristocratic corpse is made of gin-cases and mulga
saplings. The cemetery is solid granite, and it
takes a smart man three days to blast out a grave.
A Prahran (Vic.) butcher advertises chops
and steaks 15 lbs. for Is., and a side of lamb for
Is. fid.
The pictures exhibited this year by
students of the Vie. National Gallery in com-
petition for the Travelling Scholarship are sadly
disappointing. Nothing approaching the stan-
dard of Longstaff’s “Breaking the News” or
Alston’s‘‘Flood Sufferings” adorns the walls on
this occasion, although competitors have certainly
some . excuse in the fact that they have been
restricted to an “indoor” composition on that
ancient artistic theme, “Too Late,” whereas
formerly a free hand was allowed. As might be
expected, each work is practically the same sub-
ject—a deathbed scene; and the Gallery now
appears as full of corpses as—a Bulletin Xmas
Number. The prize-winner is the least offensive
of the pictures, and nobody who has not seen them
can grasp the full amount of eulogy contained in
this criticism.
* • #
One of the saddest sights in Brisbane, up
to date, is a female bicyclist who tries to beat the
record with determination and black stockings.
The other day this phenomenon turned her head
to salute a passer-by and collided with a telegraph-
post. There was the usual “dull thud” as
machine and rider struck ground, and for awhile
a pair of stout but not unattractive limbs were
waved in mute supplication. Before the crowd
could whisper condolence, the lady rose, put one
foot on the bike, kicked the ground with the
other, and was gone like a meteor. When last
seen she was dodging a butcher’s cart and trying
to run over a small boy who heaped contumely
on her.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, — Re your question as to
why it is al ways a woman and never a man who
hangs up in the house the portrait of a first
matrimonial partner for the second one to gaze
upon, I beg to reply that it isn’t always a woman
who does such a thing. I know one man who
does it. And, by the way, I never knew any
woman or any other man who did it. —Yours, &c.,
T.S.
# • •
On the morning following Jones’s wedding
he rose betimes, lit the fire, made the tea, and
carried a cup to his wife, who was curled up com-
firtably in bed. “You see what I’ve done,
darling.” “ Yes, dear ; and I’m so grateful. It’s
so kind and considerate of you,” “Ah, well !
that’s what you’ll have to do every morning.”
And Jones slid between the sheets again.—Ex.
CHEAP DEATH TO SUIT
THE TIMES.
He (after heavy dinner): “Hang volun-
teering, I believe I’ll drop it all.
This drill is such an infernal
nuisance—turning one out in the
cold! ”
She (consolingly): “I wouldn’t do that,
dearest, after all these years. Be-
sides, think of it—when you die,
they’ll give you a military funeral
and all you’ll have to pay for will
be the coffin and grave.”
“Victorian criminals again !” said a citizen,
speaking of the Bridge-st. (Sydney) burglars who
so severely mauled the police. “ Yes,” snarled a
gumsueker, “I suppose their parents emigrated
from N.S. Wales quite a long while ago.”
• # #
A Vic. contemporary : “ When a Chinese
girl is married, her attendants are always the
oldest and ugliest women to be found in the
neighbourhood, who are paid to act as foils to her
beauty.” The bride’s ma is usually enough to
meet all such requirements in this country.
• • «
The Salvation Army in Australia owns
property valued at £145,913, and shows an average
annual gain of .£2500 over all expenses.
« * *
A Local Option league is being formed at
Wynyard Square, Sydney, in re the jangling of
church bells. If local option is good with respect
to the accursed pub., why not also with respect to
the accursed jangle of the Sunday-morning bells?
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —You often make rude
remarks about the way in which Chinese lower
prices. There are numerous pubs, in Donald
(Vic.), but one is run by a Chinese. The white
victuallers sell ale at 4d. and 3d., but the yellow
man charges fid.—Yours. X.Z,
• * •
A young man was recently inquested at
Sydney. Verdict: “The cause of death was
pressure upon an unhealthy heart by a dilated
stomach containing a large quantity of beer.”
The STAR made this into a verdict of “ death from
natural causes.” Which is shriekingly funny
when you remember that Brewer Toohey is a Star
director.
* * #
Never get photographed, or painted, or
otherwise illustrated, along with any other man,
or any other set of men, whatever. Jabez Bal-
four’s colleagues were painted along with him and
his friend Hobbes, and they are sorry for it now.
Dibbs was photographed along with Wales and a
lot of others, and somebody in the group will be
sorry for it by-and-bye. If you are depicted
along with a society beauty, sbe probably first
jars your heart-strings by marrying somebody
else, and then she gets into an ugly divorce-
case ; if along with a financier, he gets into
bankruptcy and gaol; if along with a gorgeous
officer, he is probably cashiered for cowardice,
if you are jiainted in company with a poli-
tician, he dies, and evidences of corruption
are found among his papers after death ; if in
company with a parson, he is presently wanted for
behaving affectionately to the choir; if with anj •
body else, there is always the spectral possibility
that he has a dead wife beneath his hearth-
stone, and she will rise again on the third
day to point a grisly finger at you as
the old man’s accomplice. There is nobody
on this earth that it is safe to be photographed in
company with. The 12 apostles tried it at the
Last Supper, and the glaring red hair of Iscariot
was hanging over the meat, and his red beard was
draggled in the pint-pot. Also, it isn’t safe to be
photographed alone, for no one knows what he
may come to, and the portrait may yet be an awful
thing to look back upon.
Somebody denies that Melb. Women 8
Christian Temperance Union has skirt-dancing-
The actual words on the written bill, in the win-
dow, were “Exhibition of Fancy Dancing, by
Miss Levien,” Of course this meant a show-up of
the evils. “Now they go like this, and now they
go like that.”
Some model correspondence from the
Diggers News (S. Africa): —
NOTICE.
I, THE UNDERSIGNED, do hereby give notice that
after this date I shall not hold myself responsible for any
debts contracted by my wife, Amelia Rebecca Stenson, as
she has chosen to leave me and her home rather than
obey me, her lawful husband. St. Paul says, “ Wives,
obey your husbands;” but this hussy would wish to
reverse this command, and make me give way to her.
The trifling cause of dissension was my not consenting to
take her to the circus next Saturday evening. In vain I
explained to her that ladies did not patronise these enter-
tainments. She would only retort, “ Well, they ought to,
and 1 for one am going.” As I persisted in my refusal to
let her carry out this silly freak, she disappeared from her
home last night, leaving the following note;
“Since you are brute enough to deny me such an inno-
cent pleasure as witnessing a manly exhibition of skill
and endurance, 1 feel I can no longer live with you—and
I will go to the boxing match.”
I have told the exact state of the case, as, knowing what
women are, I wish to prevent her belying me, and seeking
for sympathy she does not deserve. —1 am, &c., RUDOLPH
STENSON, Raspberry Cottage, Dornfontein, Johannes-
burg, Nov. 9, 1893.
To this Mrs. Stenson replied upon the following
day with :
TO MR. RUDOLF STENSON.
You are not a man ; you are only a thing. I never did
care for you much, but now I hate you. You know it
was much beside your selfishness in refusing me your
consent to go to the Boxing Match at the Circus, but that
certainly was the last feather that broke the Camel’s back.
You think you are exposing me to ridicule, but let me
tell you, Mr. Stenson, that you have defeated your own
object, and have only exposed yourself as a consummate
ass 1 1 like to hear you quote Scripture, indeed ! Per-
haps you may remember, too, that St. Paul says : “ Hus-
bands, provoke not your wives to wrath.” i hear that
you are coming to the circus
TO NIGHT (SATURDAY)
to take me home again by force. Do so at your peril, for
I have taken the precaution of getting an introduction to
Jim Murphy, and he has promised to see me home. Mr.
Murphy is a very nice, quiet young man, ever so much
nicer than you, you ugly beast. Put that in your pipe
and smoke it. If you want to be further tantalised come
and see us together in No. 4 box on-the right. Who has
had the best of it in having recourse to the advertising
columns of a paper? Ah, ha!—AMELIA REBECCA
STENSON, Masonic Hotel, Johannesburg. Nov. 10,1893.
WHEN YOUR NEIGHBOUR TURNS THE
TAP.
On these sultry summer mornings when the bed
feels like a stew,
And the flowers are ready wilted for the lack of
nightly dew;
When you long for restful slumber and yet hanker
to get up—
’Cause you’re in a perspiration and are “ dying for
a sup,”
Then you stagger to the bath-room, where the
waters ought to lap,
But they don’t do more than dribble —’cause your
neighbour’s turned his tap.
On a hillside in the suburbs, in a terrace on a
street;
You’re the lowest in that terrace, lowest down by
many feet,
And you ought to get a shower that will chill you
softly through,
But the shower doesn’t seem to act as showers
ought to do.
Then you rage with righteous anger and your
towels wildly flap
As you realise the hideous truth —your neighbour’s
turned his tap.
In the dead and silent hours of night you lie and
read the news,
And then proceed to court repose and just begin
to snooze;
Sweet dreams are stealing o’er you to replace your
weary thought.
And your fancy is in realms of light commencing
lamblike sport.
A jangling jar horrific tears you rude from
slumber’s lap !
And—wide awake —you know thereby your neigh-
bour’s turned his cap.
There’s a horrid fate awaiting the man who builds
a row
Of Tom-and-Jerry “villas,” with a single pipe of
flow ;
So that when, up on the corner, Gynx permits his
tap to run
The fellow down below him—wanting water-can
get none.
When this builder, down in Tophet, wants a drop
to cool his sap
He will find the furnace roaring—while his neigh-
bour turns his tap.
NEVILLE FORDER.
THE SONG OF THE BICYCLIST.
I’m the gay, giddy king of the highway,
And hold it by right that’s divine;
I dominate also each by-way,
And even the footpath is mine.
At my head city councils may shy laws;
My fingers I snap at each code;
I superior rise to all byelaws,
For I am the King of the Road !
At dawn, when the new day is breaking,
By my wheel is the workman contused,
And noon sees the track I am taking
Bestrewn with the fractured and bruised.
When night drops her veil, in my courses
I practise a different mode,
Flash my lamp in the eyes of young horses,
For I am the King of the Road !
What care I for pedestrian’s curses,
For miles of abusive “cross-heads,”
For the work I afford Gus Sleight’s hearses,
For my filling of hospital beds!
Yet, maybe some day I’ll o’erdo it,
And then these low folk that I goad
To madness will buckle unto it
And smash up the King of the Road !
STEELE GREY.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool.—No wool passed under the hammer in Sydney
this week, the fortnightly sales being now in force. Next
week the sales will be consolidated into two days for
buyers’ convenience, and we will offer an attractive cata-
logue. Judging from private transactions we do not
anticipate any improvement in prices.
Sheepskins.—The demand continues good for well cared-
for skins, but inferior are difficult to quit. Best full-
woolled up to 4|d ; medium, 3Jd to 4d ; pelts, IJd to 3d
per lb. Butchers’ greenskins, 40d to 56d for tops;
medium, 20d to 36d ; pelts, 9d to 18d.
Hides.—There was a brisk demand at our sale to-day,
especially for extra heavies which realised up to 4d per
lb.; heavies, to 2|d ; medium and light, from l£d to l|d
per lb. ; slippy hides dull of sale.
Tallow.—The market this week was hardly up to late
rates. We quote best mutton from £2l 10s to £22 5s ;
best mixed, £2O 10s to £2l; trade lines, £l7 to £l9 per
ton.
Hair.—Horse, lOd to 13Jd; cow, 4ld to lOd ; stump.
4id to per lb.
Bones.—Shanks, £3 10s to £5 10s; common, £llos to
£2 ss; knuckles, £2 10s to £3 per ton.
Horns.—Large, £1 to £1125.; medium, 10s to £1; tips,
from 2s to 5s per 100.
Hoofs.—£2 to £3 per ton.
Bark.— ln fair demand at from £5 to £6 for best; and
from £1 to £4 per ton for inferior to medium.
Pat Calves.—About 200 yarded this week. The market
showed an improvement on late rates. Prime heavy-
weight vealers to £2, small quality calves to 255.
Fat Pigs.—Fairly large supplies penned this week, and
the market was firm at late rates. Extra large to 68s;
bacon-best 40s, good 25s to 30s, porkers to 255, medium
15s to 20s, stores 10s to 15s.
Marsupial Skins.—Only small supplies to hand this
week, for which following are quotations: Kangaroo—
large grey 40d to 45d, medium 19d to 27Jd, small Id to
15}d ; large red 19Jd to 24d, small to medium Id to 18d ;
wallaroo Id to 18d ; wallaby—swamp 13d to 12d, scrub
id to 10d, rock Jd to 2Jd each.
Sydney, February 2, 1894.
Dear Bulletin, — “The dull, monotonous
grey of the Australian bush tends to make men
unsociable.” A little story. I once rode side-by-
side with Sandalwood Charlie for nine hours, and
never a word. Nearing the homestead, I thought
it was going to rain, and said so. Sandalwood :
“I wish you’d stop that eternal nagging!” —
Yours, Boko.
Dear Bulletin, Surely the brainiest
men are the most courteous citizens, in a general
way. The offensive, intolerant “head of the
firm ” is largely in evidence, it is true, but a very
slight experience of advertisement canvassing
brings a conviction that the boss is likely to be
the most urbane person on the premises—next to
the canvasser who desires an interview. An
underling, hoping to magnify his importance by
incivility, and thinking to ape the boss by making
himself darned unpleasant, is playing an entirely
false game as a rule. The self-made merchant, or
any other kind of private-office potentate, talks
business in a friendly tone when his liver is fairly
active.—Yours, R.A.L.
“GOOD ADVICE AND A WOODEN LEG.”
If I hadn’t given my friend Jim Smalley the
best piece of advice one young fellow could give
another we should be friends still —that is, if Jim
could have lived without the advice. This may
sound rather strange and mixed to you, but it’s all
right when you take it by the handle.
You see it was this way. Jim was a handsome
chap, 25 years old, foppish and dressy, fond of
society, had plenty of money, but with the seeds
of consumption in him. Got ’em from his mother,,
who died of it.
Well, Jim began to cough, and run down hill
fast The doctors couldn’t help him, and told him
so. One day he was talking to me about it, and!
actually broke down and cried. “Jim,” says I,
“ there’s just one chance for you, and I want you
to jump for it right away. That’s to go out West
in America and live on the slopes of the Rocky
Mountains, in the pine woods, in a tent or a hut,,
and stay there till you are dead or well. Don’t
write to me for a year, then come back or let me-
hear from you.”
Bidding a sad farewell to the young girl he was
engaged to be married to, Jim went.
Two years afterwards I met him in 'town ; he
was as hearty as a buck, but walked with a limp.
He had lost his right leg, below the knee, in a fight
with a grizzly bear, and now hobbled around on a
wooden one. “And it’s all your fault,” he said,
“If it hadn’t been for your advice I’d never gone
there. Now' Edith won’t marry me. Says she
don’t want a husband with a wooden leg, and I
don’t want a friend who gave me the wooden leg.”
Well, there ! I was never so taken aback. My
advice had saved Jim’s life and restored his health,
yet because he couldn’t have two sound legs and a
wife besides, he threw me overboard. I vowed I’d
never give anybody a bit of good advice again.
I’d let ’em die first. But that’s where I was
wrong. It is a man’s duty to keep on doing
good, whether people are grateful or not. Here is
Mr. Frank Stanley Langman. His wife gave him
a piece of good advice, and he was sensible enough
to act on it. In June, 1882, it was that he fell ill.
He felt weak, tired and weary without any outside
reason for it. His appetite was poor, there was a
bitter taste in his mouth, and a bad pain in the
chest and stomach after eating. Sometimes he
would break out into a sweat and feel so pros-
trated he’d have to lie down. It was feared he
had some kind of internal tumour, Once he had
an attack at the railway station, and people
crowded round him, thinking he was dying.
During another attack he kissed his child, be-
lieving his time had come. A doctor examined
him for heart disease, but couldn’t find any. He
advised Langman to take only milk and brandy,
milk and water, and such slops. Still he had
those frightful periodic attacks. After attending
him some time, the doctor said, “I can’t find out
what is the matter with you ; you had better see a
West End physician.” Mr. Langman did so, and
the West End doctor said the patient’s liver made
too much bile, and ordered medicine and a milk
diet.
Two more doctors were consulted with no better
result, and the unhappy man remained- in that
same miserable form for seven years. In Feb-
ruary, 1889, he read in a newspaper of a case like
his own having been cured by Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup, but, inasmuch as the best medical
advice in London was of no use, what could be
expected from an advertised medicine? “Noth-
ing, of course,” said Mr. Langman.
His wife thought differently. “ You try SeigeSs
Syrup,” she said, “ Everybody speaks well of it. ”
He did try it, and in three months he was well,
and has been well ever since. In a letter dated
December 17, 1891, he says, “ Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup saved my life,” and signs his
name to what he says—“ Frank Stanley Lang-
man, 44, Comberford Road, Brockley.”
His malady was not heart disease or tumors,
but indigestion and dyspepsia, the cause of almost
all pangs and pains, call them what you will.
Mr. Langman was saved by good advice and a
good medicine, for which he is grateful. So 1
take notice that everybody isn’t like Jim Smalley,
with his grizzly bear and his wooden leg.”
G.W.C.
London, February, 1892.


Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHILDREN’S sweet)
Zdneet.
Sji
St. John’s Works, London, W.C,
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
€4 T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT VVILL CURE I
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St., N. Adelaide, S.Australia
H. G. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
POSITIVELY CURES all
A 52
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorea, &c., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by J. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
WORMS, FRECKLES, SCALES, BARBERS’
RASH, CHAPPED HANDS, CHILBLAINS,
SCALD HEAD, GROG BLOSSOMS, MANGE in
HORSES AND DOGS, and all other LOATHSOME
SKIN DISEASES,
Guaranteed to be speedily ERADICATED and PER*
MANENTLY CURED by
Dr. KOCH’S Wonderful, Never-failing Skin-
Cleansing and Purifying Solution.
Asiatic intercourse is spreading Leprosy over Australia
with alarming rapidity. No Skin Eruption should be
neglected. Leprosy lurks behind the most simple-looking
Cutaneous Affection.
Numerous chronic oases that have baffled the (acuity
and have been turned out o( hospitals incurable, have
been quickly and completely cured by a few applications
Of this marvellous solution.
Surprising testimonials o( its wondrous efficacy arrive
by every mail. It DESTROYS all kinds of Insects,
and drives away all Noxious Vermin. It is the best
DISINFECTANT in the World, and absolutely non-
poisonous. We don’t employ travellers or hawkers,
therefore, to avoid being injured or swindled by un-
scrupulous itinerant vendors of spurious imitations, Dr.
KOCH’S Genuine Skin-cleansing Solution must be got
DIRECT from us.
Secure unobservable packages, 10/6, 21/-, 42/-, sent any-
where in N.S.W., carriage free, on receipt of P.O. Orders.
ORANGE BUTTER CO.,
: H Market Buildings,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australian Agents. "
Special Advertisements
A FREE GIFT !
Notice to our Country and Inter-
colonial Customers.
matter it you live in town, country, or another
colony, if you have a photo, of yourself or any dear
friend, and you want an Enlargement of it, send it to us.
We will make you from it a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
ENLARGEMENT on the Best Ground Opal, size 12 x 10
inches, which, when properly mounted, is suitable for a
frame 21 x 18 inches, and pack it carefully, and pay for
it through the new parcels post right to your very
door, for 10s. 6d. The usual price for this same
thing in Sydney is Three Pounds Three Shillings
(£3 35.). We are doing this as an advertisement,
and while it lasts it is a chance of a lifetime. Under-
stand, there is no condition of framing or otherwise. All
you have to do is to send your Photo, and your Name and
Address, and your 10s. 6d., and you will quickly get your
picture, which we guarantee will charm you.
Now, every man who has looked through a camera, no
matter if he be the greenest amateur, knows perfectly
well that this cannot be done for the money in the ordi-
nary w'ay of business. Query—Then why do it? Answer
—We want to put out a limited number of out enlarge-
ments each year as an advertisement.
Or if you have a Photo., and you want more of it, send
it to us; we will copy it and send you Six Enamelled
Cabinets and your own Photo, for 6s, 6d., or 12 ditto ditto
for 10s., post paid.
When in Sydney, if you will sit to us for one dozen of
our Highly-finished Cabinet Portraits at 10s. per dozen,
we will present you with a BKVUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
PORTRAIT ENLARGEMENT of yourself on the BEST
GROUND OPAL, FREE OF CHARGE.
A GUARANTEE.
It is well known in the Photographic Profession through
the whole of Australasia, and by every man in Sydney,
that we have the Largest Photographic Studios, Offices,
and Works, and employ by far the largest number ot
artists and workmen in the Southern Hemisphere. This,
we think, is a sufficient guarantee that we will send out
none but the very best production possible in each case, as
we are thoroughly alive to the fact that each Picture
speaks for or against us. We cannot afford to be careless.
CAUTION.—As we have no agents in the country, don’t
give your Photo to anyone, but send it straight to us ; it
is safe then. Note the Address:—THE CROWN
BROMIDE ENLARGEMENT COY., at
THE CROWN STUDIOS,
Corner George & Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
EMOYAL NOTICE.
J. HUBERT NEWMAN ,
Late of
12 OXFORD-BT, SYDNEY
(Established in 1863),
Will REMOVE in a few days to
Newman’s Atelier, 314 George Street,
SYDNEY
(Between G.P.O. and Hunter-street).
FIRST PRIZE MEDALIST at all EXHIBITIONS,
including the only
Chicago Award for Australian Photographic
PORTRAITURE.
IST NO INFERIOR WORK.
Cabinets ... 15s. Per Dozen.
NEWMAN’S ATELIER.
CLOTHED AIR !
Cellular Aerteoc Underclothing .
For Comfort during Hot Weather.
A POSITIVE SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS-
Recommended by Medical Faculty.
Jdst Opbned:
Ecru Xjiale Singlets, Bs.
Extra fine and light for tropical wear. Specially re-
commended as being easily washed, unshrinkable and
very durable.
Extra LIGHT MAKE in BAY and DKESS SHIRTS,
with best Linen Fronts and Cuffs and Lisle Thread Bodies.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Caps, Pyjamas,
Braces, Belts and Hosiery.
Pamphlet, Price Lists and full particulars,
BRAHAM & MUTCH, 75 King Street, Sydney.
Q UEENSLAND SA EULER Y.
A LL in want of the above should call on or send for
price-list to
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
gupplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
CASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAYAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
SANDAL WOOD OIL
CAPSULES
Full directions.
All Chemists.
Efficacious from tho purity of
the Oil and the superiority of the
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’s Pure Copaiba Capsules.
Carter & Co?
i
JjUAUTaBIiH
NUN REVERSIBLE
rpHIS Ingeniously Constructed BILLIARD ItIMXt-
J- TABLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin.
inggentleexeroise with an elegant and scientific recreation,
The PRICES—2S to <iu>nens, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
633 ColUas-St., Molboutao. Fiotory, University-St.
Musical Instruments.
XMAS "BOXES'!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away 11 (only 3O f 000)
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and yon will receive
In return a 4s. Song, Walts or Plano Piece,
F KEKI
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Kemember tills! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
Gnna & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
eci. per week sa
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK 1
At 2d. and 3d. each— Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS'»
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Hd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants & Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W,
£2T Write for Lists, and beware of WORTHLESS
lmitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, <&c.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH,
a®* Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers.
Wanted.
ANTED-
A Gentleman, having several useful PATENTS,
is desirous of meeting with a Capitalist who would
assist him in placing them on the market. Capital
required, =£4oo to =£soo.
For particulars apply to
JOHN DOUGLAS, Land Agent,
Queen-street, Auckland, N.Z.
Applications win be received up to
FEBRUARY 15th for the position of
EDITOR of a new Democratic evening news-
paper. Also, MACHINIST. Enclose references,
salary expected, &c., and endorse envelopes,
“ Editor ” or “ Machinist ” respectively, to
Manager, Bendigo Evening Mail Co., Ltd.,
Bendigo, Victoria.
Missing Friends.
ILSON, ANDREW (native of Glasgow,
worked at South Melbourne Gasworks in
1888 —last heard of at Drouin, Vie., about May,
1890), or anyone knowing of him, please communi-
cate with Alex. Wilson, or O. P. Law, 607 Harris-
street, Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 6,1894.
riIENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14.
Erection of Station Buildings, &c., at Illawarra
Road, Canterbury, and Burwood Road, Rail-
way Marrickville to Burwood Road, time
extended
Additions, Waiting-room, Wharf, Neutral Bay
Manufacture, within the colony, of 20 Cable Grips,
King-street to Ocean-street Tramway
Annual Contracts, 1894.
Fresh Tenders.
(Deposit of =6lO to accompany tender.)
Diving Gear
Clinker and Carvel-built Boats (to be manufactured
in the Colony
Conveyance of Coal, Wollongong to Shoalhaven
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28.
Bridge, Oattai Creek, at Castle-hill.
Construction of Hand-geared Timber Punt for
service Clarence River, at Lower Whiteman
Extension of Wharf occupied by German Aus-
tralian S.S. Coy., Circular Quay
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14.
Bridge, Murrumbidgee River, at Tharwa
Erection of Offices, Naval Station, Garden Island
WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
Business Announcements.
SQUATTER’S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade (
Post Free ( Qsu GdL,
2-S Size.
R. & G. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 Gearye St., Sydney.
Post your Razor to be Ground and Set—enclose 1 3.
Amusements.
QSITGSION THEATRE
Leasees .. Prank Thornton and Charles Arnold.
EVERY EVENING (at 8.30) EVERY EVENING
Mr. FRANK THORNTON
as
“CHARLEY’S AUNT."
Preceded at 8 by “A BAD PENNY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee . Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS 1
of Mr. George Klgnolrt in
“TIRTJ-B -A.S STEEL”
Supported by
A Powerful and Specially - selected Cast.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
SATURDAY NEXT (February 10) SATURDAY NEXT
The Spectacular Drama,
“ <§ound the World in (Sixty (Says.”
CAICEDO, the King of the Wire.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
iiTe a t r~e r o y a l.
Acting Manager and Treasurer .. Fred. Gunther.
A COMPLETE AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS.
TONIGHT (Thursday, February 8) TO-NIGHT
The Sensational Military Drama, in 4 acts,
“CTJBEEIjJ'T CAS
Interpreted by the Popular Royal Dramatic Co.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE.
JJOYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY.
PRIZES .£l5OO
PRIZES .£l5OO
PRIZES .£l5OO
PRIZES .£l5OO
PRIZES .£l5OO
PRIZES .£l5OO
PRIZES <£lsoo
PRIZES .£l5OO
GRAND EASTER EXHI-
BITION,
MOORE PARK, Sydney
21st to 27th MARCH, 1894.
EXHIBITION OF
HORSES, CATTLE,
SHEEP, PIGS, DOGS,
POULTRY, WINE,
FARM PRODUCE,
DAIRY PRODUCE,
MACHINERY, &c.
Entries Close SATURDAY,
24th FEBRUARY, 1894.
Prize Schedule now ready
F. WEBSTER,
Albury missing word competi-
tions. DOUBLE GUESSES-NO. 5.
“ The question now is, how far the women’s franchise
in New Zealand, if taken full advantage of, will influence
the social of the rising generation ?”
CLOSES MARCH 4.—Every Competitor allowed two
guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O. Order, 1/1
if in stamps. Add exchange to Postal notes other
colonies. Total amount (less 10 per cent.) divided amongst
successful guessers. The Missing Word is deposited in a
sealed envelope with Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known
Albury Bookseller.
No. 4 Competition closed with 946 guesses. The
Missing Word was “ AWKWARD,” and the sentence
completed reads:
“ The expulsion of Anarchists from France has led to
their massing in England, a circumstance which must be
regarded as awkward, when considering past outrages
and future possibilities.”
The only successful Competitors were—Jas. L. Parkin-
son, Echuca; Miss Eva M’Dermot, Negambie, Goulburn
Valley ; and N. O’Malley, Stanley-street, South Brisbane
(who plunged rather heavily), and divide £2l ss. 9d.
between them. Predominating guesses—ominous, alarm-
ing, dangerous, calamitous, portentous, significant, sus-
picious, and menacing.
Burton & Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
Please mention this paper when replying.
Publications.
The Best Magazine Published in Australia
—is—
SCBLIBIUER’S.
Issued Monthly by THE CENTRAL PRESS AGENCY,
Limited,
48 and 50 Castlbreagii Street, SYDNEY.
SUBSCRIPTION now REDUCED to 12s. per annum.
Published Monthly. Price, One Shilling.
The CHRISTMAS NUMBER now Ready.
FOR
Books and Stationery,
The BEST and CHEAPEST NOVELTIES
are Imported by
The CENTRAL PRESS AGENCY,
48 A RO Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY
(opposite the Australia Hotel).
CHE A P MUS I C.
New Song, “Playfellow,” the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Songs,
Waltzes, Duets, &0., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
105 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
-LJ- and PIANO. “Martha," “Robert le Liable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” "Faust,” "Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & 00.»
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MF. r BOURNE.
American: “Clement Scott took away
many impressions from this country, and left
some.” Neat.
“Sands’ Sydney Directory” for 1894
differs from the same publication for 1893, chiefly
because it is a good deal larger, and contains more
varied information than even its comprehensive
predecessor. “ Sands’ Directory ”is gradually
expanding into a monumental publication, and the
information which it doesn’t contain is hardly
worth mentioning.
A very satisfactory paragraph adorns the
advertisement of the Australian Building Society
appearing in another column to the effect that a
re valuation of the Macleay River properties,
which are included in the forthcoming distribu-
tion, made since the issue of the prospectus, has
resulted in an increased estimated value of
.£lO,OOO. Evidently the original valuations must
have been made in a spirit of justice to the share-
holders.
Dear Bulletin, —I am very weary of the
mirage question, and propose to settle it at one
stroke; it is as simple as sawing wood, and will
doubtless bring joy to many a wanderer’s heart.
The solution is this : Some people—when they see
a mirage—think it is water; other people have
better sense, and know it is not water. This
covers both sides, and ought to stop all further
correspondence, especially if you will offer a prize
for the first man who refrains from sending in his
alleged experience, which, after all, must be only
a matter of opinion. The first time I saw a mirage
I thought it was water, bub never again.—Yours,
Percy Abbott.
Slashing account of “Disastrous Fire at
Kerang ” (two weatherboard cottages burnt) from
Kerang (Vic.) Observer, of Jan. 24 :
The weather during the day had been very warm, the
thermometer registering in the shade two and three
degrees over the hundred and from the heated under-
world radiated waves of languid warmth while the sun,
dipping into the west, large, luminous and blood-red,
seemed to presage disaster as yet untold. Nature wag
de facto recumbent when sharply and suddenly the cry
of “fire” rang out clearly on the heated ether, and a
second later the tocsin was beating a furious alarm. . . .
With straining eyes and hurrying feet poured an im-
petuous human torrent in the direction of Nolan-street.
. . . There was the latent ferocity of the tiger in the
flame and it was only biding its time, . . . Already
the crowd was dense when, with a whirl and a rush ASolus-
like on the wines of the wind down the road came the
fire reel and Kerang contingent of the Country Fire
Brigades, and something like a cheer went up. . . .
But the terrible irony of the thing! Now the liquid
flames had captured the inner walls, and now they leapt
hissing and roaring to the ceiling, and shot out angry red
arms from each window and crevice, grasping, devouring,
consuming every particle of timber with which they oame
in contact. . . . Still fiercer raged the fire, the roof
was ail aglow with varied tints, blue, yellow, green, and
there were visible vortices of flame. . . • The age of
chivalry, they say, is past, but there are brave men still,
and the fireman who stood between the fire and the
threatened building, protected only by a bag and a
smouldering fence, directing the water at Arnoldt’s wall,
would have been the subject of song and scald in the days
when courage was king. ... A few long-drawn
seconds of breathless hope and fear, a vivid sheet of flame
connecting building and building, the solitary figure of
the heroic fireman in its midst, and the ory goes up that
“ Arnoldt’s is on Are 1”


AUSTRA.LIA.3XT
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EYEKY YEAB.
DiRBCTOHS-The Hon, Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman j JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN
KOBE J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annual Income: Two Millions starling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterUng. The CASH BONUS lor the One Year 1802 amounted to o\
One Million sterling.
3E3lea.c3L Office: 3*7 FXTT STREET, SYDKTEY.
SHORT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.;
'er £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of on
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
i
NEWMARKET HANDICAP—3rd MARCH BT* 50,000 at 20.
AUSTRALIAN CUP-6th MARCH 10.000 at 10.
AUSTRALIAN CUP-6xh MARCH 50.000 at 5.
*• TATTfIittSALL
Care of George Adams,
“The Telegraph " Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
Krlsbaitc, <lueenslai»
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
WE BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
' ’ maintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
DEPARTMENTS s
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ribbons, Laces, Ladies' Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing Drapery, Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro-plate, Men's Ready-made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept)
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited.
We issue a little book on “ Shopping by Post,” which is
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
Send your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
and will be as well served as if in town to select.
Fixmey, Isles & Co.,
Till IS BANE, MARYBOROUGH, Q.,
AM) Ul 11.VS1.NUH At.L. -STUKKT, LONDON, E.C.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. .. CEO. W. ELLIS.
“ Y ABBA’S ”
Cash Prize Consultations.
Messrs, jas. nesbit and wm. mooney
(Members of Tattersall’s Club, Brisbane)
having amalgamated the CONSULTATION
Branches of their Business, beg to announce the
following as their opening Programme:
NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
Flemington, 3rd March, 1894.
50,000 IST" At 5 Each 50,000
245 Extra Prizes 245
A USTBALIAN CUP ! I
Flemington, 6th March, 1894.
5,000 At 5 Each 5,000
80 Extra Prizes 30
Register your Letters, and take care of Receipt
till you receive a reply.
Address:
“ Yatotoa,”
Care of NESBIT & MOONEY,
Queen-street , BRISBANE.
NOW READY.
AUSTRALIAN
FORM AT A GLANCE.
Is.— Posted for (Stamps) Is. Id.
PERFORMANCES OP HORSES
Entered for the
Newmarket Handicap
and the
AUSTRALIAN CUP
Shown at a glance, and forming the quickest, best
and most reliable reference published.
Can be Obtained prom
CHAS. WESTBROOK,
116 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite G.P.O.
Telephone No. 1542.
Telegraphic Address ; “ Westbrook,” Sydney.
ì
GIVEN AWAY
Approximated amount to be
disbursed during 1894.
A liberal offer which for Novelty and
Enterprise Is without a parallel In
the History of Advertising, vide press .
Instead of Spending Thousands of Pounds annually in advertising. The National Drug Coy., have
decided upon a new departure in the way of pushing the sale of their wonderful “ Star Antibilious
Pills’’.—From January Ist, 1894 to December 31st, 1894, a distribution of Three-fourths of the net
profits derived from the sale of their pills will be divided amongst their customers.—First division of
profits on 31st March, future divisions at end of June, September and December. Each box of Pills will
heara seperate number, and every person sending Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of Pills will
be entitled to participate in the current quarterly division of profits.—Dividend Cheques to be made out
in sums of £5 each and posted immediately on our receipt of winning numbers. Successful numbers also
names and addresses of holders will be advertised on following week in Australasian , Town Country
Journal aud S. A. Observer.—The strictest impartiality to be observed and fairness of division un.
questionable.—Present Profits average £lOOO per annum, so that with the large increase of business
resulting from this announcement it is only reasonable to anticipate that at least £2OO will be available
for each Quarterly distribution. Please note number on Box and compare same with advertised
list after end of quarter.— Apmuess—National Drug Coy., Russell Street, Melbourne.
Miscellaneous.
Kcst for tlie Wearied Soles by trying
3S L L I s» s
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladles, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
8m
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, arid
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
were you are sure to get a fit. The propri tor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical boot making is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES FOR CASH,
Post Free to any Post-town in Australia. CATALOGUES
POST FREE.
No matter how far back in the interior you may reside,
we post the boots DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR. ELLIS S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample tread,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY—they are a “going con-
cern" from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw" or blister the feet, as most new hoots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items: Gent’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d ;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hitje
soles, 15s 6d ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s 6d ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s 6d ; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s 6d ; Primes! French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), S9s 6d, Tops for ditto, 12s 6d ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s 6d (worth i'3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s 6d ; Three-quarter ditto, 26s 6d; Half ’ditto,
23s 6d; Porpoise Balmorals, wide wells, 22s 6d.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S FOOT GEAR
In Calf, Kid, Buckskin, Canvas or Tan.
At Equally Reasonable Rates.
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT.
For a FEW WEEKS ONLY.
A guinea’s Worth
—FOR—
-13 b. 6d
Cut this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments and Remittance of 13s.
6d., when you will have
mailed to you (post.free)
a pair of those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow or
wide
toes.
t/EUIS]
/£/ COUPON il
//Cu/NEfl |
.■ BALMORAL |\
/TP
61
po
When sending, mention this paper
THOUSANDS,OF TESTIMONIALS.
“I am pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me; make me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“ JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.”
“ The two pairs of boots which we had from you have
been constantly worn for months. You appear to use
prime leather. The wear has been phenomenal.
“GEORGE EARNQEY, Roads Office, Deniliquin.”
I am highly pleased with your boots, and you have
fitted me to a T.
“H. R. COTTAR, Tarella, Wilcannia.”
“The boots (both pairs) fit splendidly, and give general
satisfaction.
“GEO. GUEST, Jun., The Rock, Boggabri.”
“ The boots are giving every satisfaction ; will forward
you all my orders in future. We are unable to •produce
such a boot in Queensland.
“ E. BERRY, Electric Telegraphs, Cooktown, Q."
“ The boots you made me are an excellent fit. As you
know, my right leg is shorter than the left. I can now
(thanks to your cleverness) walk with comfort and secu-
rity. I recommend you to all my friends and acquain-
tances. MARTIN BATES, Mounted Constable,
“ Gilgunnia, Nymagee.”
“ I can strongly recommend your workmanship and fit
as superior to anything I have ever had.
r ‘THOMAS'PEARCE, Solicitor, Hillston, N.S.W,"
“ The boots came to hand, are well made and fit well.
I send herewith order for four more pairs.
“Miss F. A. ROWLING, Court House, Balranald, N.S. W.”
Special Notice I Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in Ihe
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
£IOO One Hundred rounds! £lOO
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. £3; 6th, do. £2; 40 prizes, value IP' ach ;
10 do. at 16s. each; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss.' each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed* within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Remember I—ALL PARCELS POST FREE.
"JL”. i - * ■- ±JXjXjiXE3,
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.
L adle s.
We Post to any address in the Colonies a pair of our
handsome, engraved Bar Brooches for stamps, 20. Our
Auraniun Go'd Langtry Fob Chain for Ladies, stumps
2 9 ; equal to real Cold.
Faulkner X Co., 355 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Melb. Law authorities “will probably
make an effort to prohibit betting upon racecourses.”
Not a serious attempt, though— at the most, a bogus
demonstration to catch the votes of the godly.
# • #
Lady Mabel Bruce, it appears, married our old
friend, ex-cash-bookraaker Bob Sutton, without taking
the trouble to get her little bit of property “ tied up.’’
Mabel's money, as she admitted in court the other day, is
at the disposal of anybody who can get hold of it, but she
has no fear that the renowned plugger of Lord Beerthirst
will ever “use it improperly.” A really touching instance
of aristocratic faith.
# * *
Blaokham’s remark that the Victorians were
“jewed out of” the intercolonial cricket-match was in
exceptionally bad taste, considering that Moses was
N.S.W. captain. If Blackbam objected to “amateur
umpires’’—though Tooher U quite as good as most pro-
fessionals—why didn’t he say so before the match started?
And the Victorians would have lost, anyhow.
* • #
Mr. William M'Oulloch (Vic.) had the bad luck
to lose his imported brood mare, Marden Lass, the other
day. Marden Lass was in foal to Pilgrim’s Progress.
• * «
Titan is weighted at Bst. 51b. only, in the Aus-
tralian Cup, on the assumption that he is a non-stayer.
If the gelding be allowed to run “big” for the long race
he may do the trick ; nor does he seem out of the New-
market with lOsb. 11b. to carry. Steadfast, though, strikes
one as the best-handicapped entry for both events, and in
his form of two years ago Mr. Wilson’s horse would cer-
tainly go near winning the double.
• « •
Nothing is sadder than the patriotic joy of an
Australian gallery when a vocalist bawls forth a prophecy
that Peter Jackson will kill Corbett in one round. Sad—
why, it is positively sickening to find them judging the
greatness of their nationality by the fistic performances
of a full-blooded negro. Why doesn’t some sporting
cynic discover a Chow capable of licking Peter (a not im-
possible task), and set Young Australia whooping for a
celestial?
* • •
Why doesn’t S.A. Govt, prosecute backers as
well as layers ?
# • •
There are, it is estimated, 5000 cyclists in
and about Melb.—49oo of them running stiff for a big
handicap in next year’s Austral.
» • *
Is pigeon-shooting more shameful than other
forms of sport ? The Sydney shooters, anyhow, are
remarkably fond of assumed gun-names.
* • *
The gentleman who calls at shops and houses
and, ascertaining that the proprietor is out, informs his
wife that he has called by appointment to give the house-
father the tip for the races, is making a good thing out of
the money* advanced him for investment, just now, while
the “ tote ” is being throttled.
• • «
There was a wild time at a certain tote a few
Saturdays ago. A trusted hanger-on, whose duty it was
to telegraph from the course the names of the scratched
horses, either inadvertently or with the fell intention of
working a double cross, sent as “ dead ” a bona-fide trier.
As all the world knows, money invested on scratched
horses ia the tote man’s illicit perquisite. As it happened,
there were 20 investors on the supposed non-starter, but
the investment card, issued before the race, showed only
one registered. When the result of the race was flashed
in, hope for a season bade the world farewell, so far as
the boss was concerned, for the non-starter had finished
second, and the second horse's proportion of the money
represented to be in the tote, less 10 per cent,, and
divided by one, came to £8 10s. That wasn’t the exact
amount, but it’s very near it. And this sum he had to
pay, with a hollow smile, to each of the 20 investors.
Mistakes will occur in the best regulated totalisators.
• • •
The N.S.W. Rowing Association can no longer
close its eyes to the merits of the North Shore Rowing
Club, whose members must have a big say in the Inter-
provincial eight if the crew is to be considered a repre-
sentative one.
• • #
In Melbourne, on Saturday night, the Pyrmont
(Sydney) boxer, Quigley, beat M'lntyre in a couple of
rounds. Quigley is now to be matched with Maorilander
Laing, Joe Goddard’s conqueror.
# # •
It is an open question now whether Joe God-
dard wouldn’t have been a lot richer if he had remained a
miner at the Barrier. His star has practically set. He is
pugilistioally “broke,” and nothing remains of his old-
time glory save many old bruises and the memory of a
good time which will never come back. Why doesn’t
some one write a book about the latter days of old, decayed
bruisers, as a warning to the young bruisers who will also
be old and decayed and battered in the course of years 7
* * *
Under the fostering care of Larry Foley, Sydney
boxing looks like reviving. A revival is wanted badly—
by the boxers.
The Imperialist newspaper is great on the dis-
gusting brutality of the P.R. when an English pug. gets
knocked out. When the English champion wins, bruising
is the “ noble art ” and the “ old English sport,’’ which
it hasn t been for a long time now.
* • •
Lyons, the S.A. cricketer, is to be provided
with a Government billet as clerk in the Govt. Actuarial
Dept. This while dozens of civil-servants are being
retrenched.
• « •
A leading cricketer has decided to again play
for his club. The club refused his demand to pay balance
of £4 on a bicycle, and the petted athlete struck.
Matters were eventually settled. No wonder every Aus-
tralian youth aspires to be a famous footballer or
cricketer.
• « •
George Giffen has been suffering from a strained
smew and narrowly escaped undergoing an operation,
but he expects to play against Victoria in March. He
has not played in S.A, club matches so far.
• * •
A. G. Stoddart is to bring another team of
English cricketers to Australia in September or October
next. Some big names will have to be omitted, but a
fairly representative eleven may be hoped for.
• * *
Millionaire M'Calmont was biggest British
turf winner last year with £24,421 in stakes, chiefly earned
by Isinglass. Duke of Westminster came next with
£16,623 ; Duke of Portland, £15,527 ; J. B. Maple,
£10,746; Douglas Baird, £10,265. Prince of Wales won
two races worth £872.
* • •
Mr. Wicks smashed his leg at Rand wick coming
through the opening from the Steeplechase course to the
course proper, and lately R. Longford met with a
similar accident. It goes without saying that the A.J.C.
will now make some alteration at this dangerous spot.
Jem Burge, all things considered, is doing better
than any other of the Australian boxers in America. The Iron
Man is not over-particular whether the other fellow is a
few stone heavier, or is not in his class, or has no reputa-
tion. He simply tackles anything that comes along.
* # #
Young Frank Laver, of Melb. Crown Law
department, looks like the coming batsman. He lately
made 258 for East against South Melb. Last year he
compiled 352 for the same club against St. Kilda, and
104 for Vic. against S.A.
* • •
Watch Pilot Boy for the Newmarket Handicap.
# * #
Melb. boasts two pedestrians who can do their
100 yards in lOsec. "dead." One rides the crocks offered
for sale at a horse-bazaar, and the other is runner for a
boarding-house.
• # •
The Women’s Christian Temperance Association
are carrying the war into the camp of the enemy. The
booth-privileges at Ararat (Vic.) sports were sold to them
for £lO, and nothing stronger than hop-ale was obtainable
on the ground. Thirsty souls who came for beer received a
tract, and departed cursing. A local publican tried to
get a license for another booth, but the Bench refused it,
as “ the sole right ’’ had been already sold. Are sober but
blasphemous citizens more moral than those w-ho, having
the chance of getting drunk, thank Heaven for it?
• • •
On a Q. racecourse. Steward (to just-dis-
qualified jockey): “Look here, Jimmy, you have nothing
to complain of—you know you should have been rubbed
out last year.” Jimmy: “And would have been only
you and your pals backed my mount.*’
# * •
The French police have forbidden the mas-
querading of female cyclists in male attire, but any man
may mount a bicycle in woman’s clothes with impunity.
In this country we invert the regulation. In Germany
either practice is sternly prohibited.
• * •
The last public appearance of Frank Slavin, in
London, was in answer to a judgment summons when his
committal to prison for non-payment was postponed for a
month. The last public appearance of Fitzsimmons was
also at a London law-court, where he was in trouble about
“ costs,” and stated that he was in a bad financial con-
dition. Even Dagon, when he fell on his face before the
Ark, didn’t come down with the thud of the defeated
bruiser or the bruiser who isn’t defeated but has gone
stale and lost public interest.
Fitzsimmons will fight the winner of the Cor-
bett-Jackson match, if he can get backing. Fitzy hasn’t
got the weight, but he has the length and the “devil"
and is artful as a wild monkey. It once he did hit Mr.
Corbett or Mr. Jackson on the jaw
At the opening night of the opera season
at the Metropolitan Opera House, New York, it
was estimated that in the two rows of boxes
.£3,800,000 worth of jewels were displayed by the
occupants. Allowing that at least .£2,400,000
worth were scattered over the remaining parts of
the house, that would make altogether a rough
estimate of over .£6,000,000 worth of diamonds in
the general display.
A Tokio (Japan) barrister thus advertises
for a wife: —“If there be any high-class lady who
is disposed to share grief with me and have the
pleasure of growing old together, she is requested
to apply under the following conditions : Give
your residence, station in life, name, and age; the
chief incidents of your past life ; all the better if
you can send your own songs, poems, or dodoitsu
ia kind of popular song); and send your portrait;
! will exchange with mine if desired. The offer
must be made before the end of December. N.B.—
Let your heart be at ease as your name shall be
kept perfectly secret.”
Mountcastle and Sons, the well-known
Sydney hatters, have been appointed agents for
Cooksey and Co., of London, who, at Chicago
World’s Fair, gained three medals and diplomas
for gentlemen’s silk hats, felt hats, and silk and
felt riding hats, Messrs. Mountcastle have also
received, per Austral, a fresh shipment of straw
hats, in various styles, suitable for the present
season.
A son of Anthony Trollope is settled at
Deniliquin.
Coupons for The Bulletin’s eleventh
missing-word competition will be found on the
inside back cover. They must be returned by
Friday, 23rd Feb. There is no less than =£loB to
divide from the previous competition added to
the subscriptions for the one now current.
J. Hubert Newman, the well-known
photographer, announces the removal of his
studios from Oxford-street, Hyde Park, to 314
George-street, between G.P.O. and Hunter-street,
Sydney. Mr. Newman is one of the oldest-
established photographers in the city, and his
intensely-refined work has always maintained a
high and uniform standard of excellence.
Dear Bulletin, — “He never could see”
(in a recent Bulletin), by “Mabel Holmes,” who,
of course, writes from Maoriland, is a nebulous
feminine yearning for Sympathy which, I thought,
woman-suffrage would have wiped out. Both
ways the argument is wrong. Woman as a chattel
and without a vote swears to cleave to her hus-
band, to consider him first and only, which is very
natural and praiseworthy. Woman as the legis-
lative equal of man wants to fight him, and to do
the same old lean on him when she is wounded.
And the “ Stalled-ox ” man, I should think (sup-
posing I am a woman, which I am not), is a far
more comfortable person to live with than the
soulful, crow-footed cadaver who goes round with
a dissecting-saw in his boot. “ Milly ” was a
prime ass.— Randolph the Reckless.


FOOD
FOR INFANTS ans INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MI LK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
these goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
0i
9
mi
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s Fills are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Every Dose Effective.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer’s Pills —is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
ft SPEfig
-29 -
YORK STREET
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 820.
Assisted by Dr. EMSLIE, M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board of N.S.W. and N.Z.
DEBILITY.
Nervous, weak, overworked, ambitionless men and women, with aching heads, weak stomachs and
leaden footsteps, who are billious, spiritless, exhausted, debilitated, pale, easily tired, have bad tasting
mouths on rising, inability for exertion, foul breath, furred or yellow tongues, whose sleep is un-
refreshing or broken by dreams, who brood over their troubles real or imaginary, and to whom the
world looks black and dreary, will find in our treatment a boon, a nerve food, nerve tonic and nerve
alterative, that cannot be found elsewhere, and which will rapidly and pleasantly restore them to
HEALTH, STRENGTH & VIGOR.
All who suffer from brain and spine affections, fits, paralysis, sleeplessness (an early symptom of
paralysis), varicocele, consumption, bronchitis, asthma, liver and heart derangements, gout, rheumatism,
sciatica, indigestion, poor blood, eruptions on the face, kidney and bladder troubles, womb affections,
and all chronic diseases of men and women, no matter from whatever causes arising, should CON-
SULT Dr. SPEER, as, in consequence of
HARD TIMES,
HE HAS REDUCED HIS FEES EXACTLY One-Half.
Those CONTEMPLATING MARRIAGE, or who suspect taint in their blood, or weakness,
should write to Dr. SPEER for Advice and Treatment, He will cure all local and constitutional
complaints, and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Consultations Free. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
PILLS.
AMERICAN “VIGOR” PILLS, for Debility,
Lost Vitality, Weakness, etc., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes. Post free.
“FEMALE” PILLS, for Irregularities an f j
Obstructions from whatever cause, 10s. an (1
20s.
White Spotless Arms
Soft White Hands
i
Shapely nails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
hair are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
dies when all others and the best skin doctors
fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
are absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
infant. They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive. They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
CUTICURA
Remedies afford instant relief in the most
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless nails.
ffg- “ All about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 500 Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure,
50c.; Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap, Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medi-
cated toilet soap and the only preventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of
most complexional disfigurations. Price, 25c.
PPWAK DS'
*
WIHtID-KKSOWJiKD
HA RPRODUCER^RESTORER
PRODUCES
Luxuriant Hair, Whiskers and Moustaches.
ì
Prevents the Hair Palling Off and
Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Remedy for
BALDNESS.
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre-
serving, Strengthening, and rendering the Hair
beautifully soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc.
i
Also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, it is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless, and devoid of any Melallio or other in-
jurious ingredients. Is not a bye. Tlic Best Uressing. Specially prepared for Toilet I'se.
Is, Us (id, 3s Oil and 5s lid per Bntile, from the leading Merchants, Chemists, Hair Dresseis and
Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & 00., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Bank of Yan Diemen’s Land, Limited
(IN LIQUIDATION).
GRAND LOTTERY
Sanctioned by Special Act of Parliament of Tasmania,
57 Vic. No. 2, 1893.
And by SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT with the Bank’s Trustees, conducted by G.
ADAMS (TATTERSALL’S), as Sole Agent.
TOTAL VALUE OE PRIZES:
£300,000 300,000 Shares £1 Each.
7 OF
First Frize:
Magnificent Corner Property in centre of City of Hobart, rental value £ll5O per annum,
together with well-assorted Stock of Wholesale Chemist and Druggist, recently valued at
£9984. The Trustees guarantee to deliver to the Winner Stock to this Value, or to make
up any deficiency in Cash (total value, £26,000)-
Second Prize valued at £22,500; Third, £12,000; Fourth, £10,500
And 372 other Frizes,
Ranging from £9500 down to £lOO.
Address all applications to
GEORGE ADAMS,
Collins Street, HOBART, Tasmania;
OR.
GEORGE ADAMS ,
Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the receipt for registration till you receive our reply.
Any further particulars can be obtained from G. ADAMS, care of Messrs. CURTIS
and BARRY, Solicitors, King-street, Sydney.
Weather—man's conversational god.
The Melb. cat-aud-gallows authorities note
with regret that “Roberts,” their new hangman,
though no slouch at the soaped rope and sudden
jerk, is not an artist with the whip. He tried his
’prentice hand on a prisoner one day recently and
was taken off the job before he was half through,
when the man’s back presented a picture that
would have filled an old master like “ Jones”
with disgust. The drawing was stiff, the colour
wretched, and the technique damnable. Roberts
is now in active training operating on a dummy
man. He will be tried again on a live subject
when he has obtained a better knowledge of his
art:—
Letter sent for publication in an Adelaide
paper
Inkerman Senlre
The parents of the children of the Malacotf day school
gave a picnic and a Christmas Tree with 500 presents to
been drawn for which was arranged by the teachers as a
treat for the children and friends of the district at a close
for the holidays which took place at the school room at 2
Oolook Dec. 22. 1892. when tea was called for and the
people all sat down Miss Starrs the goverment teacher
stood her scolars in ranks which No. 28 and sang
some very beautiful pieces which was appreciated by all.
Mr F. K. Adams proposed three cheers for the teacher
and three for the children. Mr. T. Briggs secondited it
and hoped that the children would always be able to have
such a teacher as they have got in getting up such a treat
at the close for the holidays Mr. Adams said he hoped the
legetors of the Colony would see that they were making
the greatest mistake in not giving us a state bank for the
prosperity of the nation for that is where all our fore-
fathers as failed for not doing so for it they had done so
500 years ago for if they had based their credit on their
birthright instead of basing on the wind their nashel
debt would been amongst themself no man wmuld tax
himself so they would never been tax for no man wants
money he only wants credit at the bank and a state bank
would answer that purpose as well as the others so that
the profits which goes to privite indvigelges now out of
the production for slowing people the privilge of writing
cheques ought to go to feed the poor and build us railways
and cadmise our roads it would suply such a revenue to
the government that it would osurbe all the uuimployed
then we should never have any strikes an the face of the
earth if our government was to declare a state bank and
circulate our own credit instead of being taxed at four
per cent for circulate other people credit and then we
should have prosperity on the face of the earth and our
ofsprings would be able to set on the grass and enjoy the
blessings of God and it is our duty to make laws in our
land so that our ofsprings may enjoy the same as we do
now if our ledgetors dont stop taxation when our land as
got to pay nashel debt of three hundred million
our ofsprings will lay down and die by the
thousands like they die in the old country for
the circulation of money as bought up England, Irland,
Scotland, Germany and France and I am well sure it will
soon buy up these seven Colonys so if our forefathers has
been in herror trying to make laws for the prosperity of
the nations I dont see why we should continue to follow
in our foot steps any longer. Cheers was jiven to Mr
Adams and a start was made to Mr Brigg’s lesidence
where a socal was held in the evening when songs and
dancing and forfeits was indulged in Miss Starrs Miss F.
Strongman, Mr W. C. Harvey and Mr W. Fisher, sang
during the evening a number of songs which was well
by all God save the queen was sung by all which brought
the whole of the enjoyment to a close.
For the dainty things that the hangmen do
For humanity’s sake and the love of God,
With the curling cat and triangles, too,
There’s a talent goes with the nerve and thew
Elevating the work o’er the brainless clod.
For effect take care how you place your blows,
Let the strokes fall firm—never flinch or fear —
Run your furrows neatly in rainbow rows,
Have a care no fragment the red cat throws
In the boss's beard, or the doctor’s ear.
There’s a pride of craft that the hangmen know
As the subject writhes and his sinews stretch,
And they see the work 'neath their deft hand grow.
And the seared flesh rise and the hot blood flow.
And they hear the shrieks of the tortured wretch
Make her bite, my man, do not waste a tail!
Thirty-one, two, three. 'Tis a righteous job.
There’s a sermon there in each wound and wale ;
May the picture last and the sermon avail
In the carnal hearts of the common mob.
Child of art, toil on, though beset with hate ;
Here’s an easel raised to your hand, and you
Are the instrument to regenerate
Those that evil do. You support the State,
And grace must come from the thing you do.
Fifty-three, four, five—not a misspent stripe.
Let your hand be iron and your heart be lead !
’Tis a work well done. Give your cat a wipe,
Lay the subject by, seek your beer and pipe,
Whilst the critics all praise your study in red.


MESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Snp]>lies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Pro fessor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “Cyclopaedia o
the Practice of Medicine”
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—VoL VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Pro. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
“ What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.” —Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
JB O SISTO T S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats, Influenza, etc-
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes ;—-
It is lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is vi ry palatable when taken internally, which places
it above oilier preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
JI Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
i
<2^-#
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
Foh THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
fob travellers.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest a nd purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestiblt
parts of wheat and malted bade}'.
Malted milk is not to be cooked
no milk is to be added ; it is quick K
and readily prepared for instant list
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In
hints. “ The composition of Mailed
Milk resembles that of human milkd
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
IWALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants. ’
— British Medical Journal. April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists,
Wholesale Agents- :
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane,
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
—THE—
Wentworth Hotel
-Jlii
&
S^s^?'!
m
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tarlft to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
ì
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOR
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Nervousness Cured!
SEND to HERR RASSMUSSEN, 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or any of his Inter-
colonial Branches, for his Free and Useful Pamphlet, entitled
“A. Thousand Reasons”
Why Sufferers should immediately take
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alf aline Vitality Pills!
Which are Registered and Purely Herbal. Cured many Thousands.
A GUARANTEED CURE for the most obstinate NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF MEMORY,
DESPONDENCY. MELANCHOLIA, NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA and IRRITABILITY, WEAK-
NESS, and all Affections peculiar to the NERVES, SPINE and BRAIN. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/-and 12/-, posted.
Blood Diseases Cured!
ALFALINE LOCK CURE PILLS.
Registered. Purely Herbal. Cured over 100,000.
A GUARANTEED CURE for all kinds of BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES
FROM ANY CAUSE, OLD-STANDING BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES, PIMPLES,
ECZEMA, and other unhappy and unpleasant symptoms of the Skin and Blood. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6 ; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as bis
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”- Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.” — Coortown
Courier, Q.
WHAT IS BETTER, THAN
.£1,000,000 ?
HEALTH!
You are always Poor
without Health, even if you are
Wealthy.
How did over 100,000 Sufferers
get Restored to
HEALTH ?
By taking
HERR RASSM US SEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press is unanimous in praising up Herr
Itassmussen and his wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies,
and his name has become a m a eh-cherished and lasting
household word in every city, village and camp in the colonies.
mi
M'i
X
The wonderful success of Herr Rassmussen, and the ever-
increasing patronage extended to his celebrated Herbal
Remedies by all classes of society, is bona-fide evidence that
they are effective and genuine.
HERE RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEO R G E STREET, SYDKTEY.
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered .
ALFALINE REMEDIES! £
Which have CURED OVER One Hundred Thousand Sufferers for Blood and Nerve Diseases,
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of the Acadetnie Parisienne des Inventeurs, France.
Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U. J.F.O.
Honourably Mentioned in “ Centennial History of New South Wales for Herbal Discoveries.
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney, Bronze Medal, Melbourne, for his Herbal Remedies.
A_u.th.or of “ Th.e Watural Doctor.”
HERBAL REMEDIES:
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Ordinary course, 23/6, posted ; Special Powerful
Double Course, 43,6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/6.
Altallne Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to eradicate Dandruff. Produces quickly
luxuriant hair. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautilier.
Beautifies the Complexion. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastlllas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes,
posted, 1 6 and 2,6.
Alfaline Lock Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Blood. Purely Herbal.
Ordinary course, posted, 23 6; special powerful course,
43 6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Inicrnal Pile Powders.
Excellent for internal use. Posted, 3,'- and 6/-
Alfaliue External Pile Powders.
Cure both Blind and Bleeding Piles. Posted, 3/- & 6,'-
Alfaline Leucorrhcea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Male and Female Syringes, Suspenders, an**
other Specialties, kept in stock.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
IMPORTANT. Make Cheques and Post Office Orders Payable to Hans Rassmussen.
whether you send to his Head Office, or to any of his Branches. Register Letters containing Money. All
Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover. All Correspondence strictly Confidential.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Chief Laboratory and Head Depot for all the Colonies:
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT: 150 Boukkk Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT: UiO Quern Sthkkt,_Bß lSß ANE.__
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT: 154 Rindlk Sthket, A DEL A IDE."”
NEW ZEALAND HEAD DEPOT : 01 Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON."
Eureowie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out of the depths come our ghosts—black with a
lustreless gleam.
When the noon of the night is gone, and the moon
shows never a beam,
We come to the hut-keeper’s bed, we come to the
white man’s side,
And we lie on his eyes and his heart in the night
noontide.
Vengeance in blood have we sworn ! Vengeance in
blood' shall ye pay ;
And your hearts shall grow cold at the fire, and
your eyes grow dark in the day.
I was Wilcannia’s king—l was the chief of the ,
clan,
Simple and foolish were we, bloody and crafty ’
white man ! i
Ye filched from the black kings their land—ye
stole from the living their plain,
And now they return as omnipotent ghosts to
receive it again.
For wherever a white lives alone, the black ghosts
live at his side,
And they rise and they claim for the dead the soul
of the white who has died.
We were black kings enjoying the plain and the
hill and the land that is ours ;
And you white vultures came, and we died, and
our lands were your maidens’ dowers ;
And our food was not, and we stretched our hand
for so little of thine—
Only a little, and ye had from us the field and the
mine—
But ye gave us never that little —ye dispersed us—
ye shot us down ;
And now the black kings are dead and the white
vultures wear their crown.
The hut-keeper sleeps in the hut—the fossicker
dreams in the tent —
And I come at the noon of the night, by the
ghosts of the dead men sent;
And I breathe on the sleeping white, and the
gaunt gums feel my breath,
And they signal the coming from far of the means
of the white man’s death.
Vengeance in blood have I sworn, vengeance in
blood shall ye pay ;
And your blood shall grow cold to love, and your
eyes grow dark in the day.
The dog whines low in the hut—the dog howls
loud in the tent
(The white man’s dog to the black man’s ghost by
the white man’s god is lent)
And the white man prays in the hut, and the
white man shivers in fear,
For lo ! Eureowie’s abroad—he is far ! he is nigh !
he is near !
Pray for your vulture life, prav to the whiteman’s
God!
For lo !to you death is anigh—we have broken
your burial sod 1
The sun sets red in the sky—the sky amourns as
with crape
The sky droops down on the rocks—the clouds
the deep grey vales drape—
From the heart of the grey-draped vale to the
edge of the haggard plain,
I lengthen that shadow of bale, that shall never
be lifted again
Till our thirst for revenge is slaked. Till the
debt of the white ye pay
White hearts shall grow cold to the fire—white
eyes shall grow dark to the day !
I come, a dark spirit of woe, and the son of the
vulture lies
In the sweat of affright at my touch, and of fear
many deaths he dies ;
And at dawn, grown drunken with awe, the hut-
keeper lone draws the cord,
And he hangs on the door of the hut—he bows to
the black ghost’s word.
He hangs on the door of the hut —his heart was
still as a stone
Lo ! we drove him to death with the ghost of the
sound of a king’s death groan !
Ye have robbed ! ye may rob us more! oh, men
of the over-sea horde !
Ye have slain ! ye may slay again ! and disperse
us with shot and sword ;
But revenge is common as sand—like the ghost of
the black man’s hand,
A cloud stoops out of the heavens o’er you and
your blood-won land ;
And I came, and the dog whines low, and the
white man holds his breath
When the wings of revenge’s heralds beat the
time of the lone white’s death.
Melb.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
“ Sunday trains are ordained by God, to
relieve the poor, overworked horses.”—Rev. New-
light.
Now that electricity is employed so suc-
cessfully to assist medicines in effecting a more
rapid cure in such troublesome complaints as
rheumatism and sciatica, nervous disorders and
others of kindred nature, it will interest sufferers
to learn that Mr. A. Sharp, whose establishment at
257 George-st. (near Bridge-st.), Sydney, is so well-
known, has fitted up in his rooms the latest and
most improved electric appliances, and in con-
sultation with an electrician of 27 years’experience,
is receiving patients for treatment. Electricity
relieves pain that no medicine or liniment is able
to aid, thus giving the much-needed physical and
mental repose. Appointments may be made per-
sonally or by letter.
Half-caste and black-boy quarrelling :
Half-caste : “You dirty, spindle-shanked son of a
bandicoot!’’ Black-boy: “Me thinkit you all the
same—all the same one new saddle and bridle !”


Hair Will Go Grey.
'S
f-v*
GOOCH’S
mm wash
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only being: necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies' and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.).
Importer of Human Hair,
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
The OALIGrRAPH Writing Machine,
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Inter changeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
Tire Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison's Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel); Melbourne,
0. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, EL S.
Wigg & Son, Bundle-street; Hobart, J. Waloh & Sons.
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Sun Cool and RirnasiißO in the Homsr
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, Ac.
And preserves (he THE SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN. WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually than any other preparation.
Itia delightfully Cooliwo and Rkfbesiiino if applied to
the Face or Hands after being out In the Ben, Tennis-
playing. Yachting, Ac. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Son, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is in delightful.
Price in England, Is. 4 2s. Cd. Sole Makers;
M. BF.F.THAM A SON. Chemists, Cheltenham, Fnglaod_.
FELToN. O HIM WADE & 00., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT DUOS.. Sidney.
YORKSHIRE
Agree* with the most
delicate ■persons.
v --
&
RELISH.
BAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
Simply Deiioioaß with
STEAKS, CHOPS, COLD MEAT. FISH,
. SOUP AND ENTREES.
Makes Cold Meat a Luxury.
THE PLAINEST VIANDS PALATABLE.
Blends admirably with all Gravies.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
The most delicious Sauce iu the 'World.
Bold Retail toy all Grocevs, Sc o.
Wholesale-TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Salt Proprietors— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE A CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD
POWDER
Makes the Richest Custards
in a few minutes
without ms.
The HOUSEWIFE’S BEST FRIEND.
Saves trouble, and is far more
economical than Eggs.
MAKES A VARIETY OF DAINTY DISHES.
Sold by all grocers, Stores, ftc.
DELICIOUS
JELLIES
In • fete minutes by using
Eroodall’s Jelly Squares.
The Squares are complete in themselves,
and are sold In the following Flavours
LEMON, ORANGE, RASPBERRY,
STRAWBERRY, VANILLA, PINEAPPLE.
BLACK CURRANT and RED CURRANT.
WONDEEPXTLLT HANDY.
EASILY MADE.
One trial will ensure their always
being kept in the house.
Sold in Boxes containing Half-Pints, Pints,
and Quarts, of all Grocers and Stores.
WHOLESALE—TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors:—
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE Sc CO.. Beecls, England
i
CLOTHED WITH AIR!
Ladies’ Cellular Combinations.
A SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS!
Unshrinkable, Easily Washed and Very Durable.
MADE IN
Cotton* Silk & Cotton* Merino* Wool & Silk*
NIGHT-GOWNS, CHEMISES, BODICES, PETTICOATS
CORSETS, DRAWERS, STOCKINGS, kto.
far PRICE LIST and PAMPHLET and all particular t from
Cellular Clothing Depot,
305 and 307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Hunter Street}.
Nothing - Venture!
Nothing Win!
£<<s.ooo was lately WON by the fortunate owners of a £1 Share in the last Brisbane Property Distribution,
“Go thou and do likewise!” by investing £1 in the next
lBTJlLlDlllSr-
G(lncorporated according to Act of Parliament)
SOCIETY
Monster Freehold Property Distribution.
Proposed Issue of 59,401 Shares at JBI each.
Committee of Manaqembnt-C. W. Midson, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane ; John T. Annear. Esq., M.L.A. Brisbane ;M. B.
Gannon, Esq., J.P., Brisbane. Committee in New South Wales— l. Clark, Esq., M.P. for the Maoleay, S.
Bond E«i J.P., ex-Mayor of Kempsey; Robert Hayes, Esq., Kempsey. BANKERa-The Commercial Banking
Company o’f Sydney, Limited. SoLiciTOKS-Messrs. Thynne and Macartney, Brisbane.
First Prize, 1606 Acres, valued at £11,643.
And 117 other Prizes, valued from £6724 to £2O.
N.B.—Since the issue of the prospectus, the Madeay River properties have been independently re-valued at
an increase of £lO,OOO on that originally set on them.
SHARE LIST CLOSES 31st MARCH.
A)l moneys banked to credit of the Committee. Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest enquiry
' Aipli^ul 0, for r Ti r ARKS in the Society must be made to the Secretary. BARRONft. BARNETT. 204 Queen
si,, k BRISBANE ; or “ Secretary," care of C. SMITH, No. 24 Imperial Arcade. SYDNEY ; or " Secretary, care of
.) RICHARDSON, W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom any further particulars may be obtained.
Stale amount forwarded, and enclose two addressed envelopes with unattached stamps; add exchange if cheque
ent. Register letters.
-THE-
Most Useful Ointment in the World 1
OEScitX* Xfoxxe.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theprodactionof thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you!
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co. j
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.— There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children. ;
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and LfVer.
See -what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’— =—
-Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the. Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, ip Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The' action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual , on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any othe'fr herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering-from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Row’s Steane’s Bitt&rs.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-atreet.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain'more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D.The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influende on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
Oihabitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being imre and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend tin m.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver. ____
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with c a tumbler of
wateiMnakesu^drinkequaPtoa^
Bow’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
i eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonio. Try it. ,
Teetotallers will find this newly-mventea
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed. , . _
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydu.ey<
Leisured idleness =4lia fruits of usury.
“Bet a thief to Cfttoh a thief.” Why ?
Because it's not the slightest use setting a police-
man.
“In all labour," says Solomon, “ there is
profit; but the talk of the lips tendeth only to
penury.” Evidently payment of members was
unknown in Solomon’s time. Also, in the labour
of building a big gun or an ironclad, or of shooting
your fellow-men, or of building an Imperial
Institute, or “faking" a balance-sheet, there is no
profit.
Messrs. R. and 6. Haworth, cutlers, of
401 George-street, Sydney, are special agents for
the famous Christy bread-knife, which is super-
seding all others for household and general use.
Messrs. Haworth are also importers of Walsten-
holm’s, Rogers’, and Taylor’s cutlery; and their
stuck of razors iu particular is most extensive.
The new stropping-machine is a specialty particu-
larly deserving inspection. Attention is specially
directed to their celebrated squatter’s knife, as
illustrated on page 14.
Among Sydney manufacturing industries,
Messrs. S. Freeman and Sons’ coffee and spice
works at Harris-street, Ultimo, take a prominent
place. The head of the firm has been in business
over 20 years, but the present enterprise originated
about 11 years ago, and has rapidly grown to its
present dimensions. In a large brick building of
three storeys, upwards of sixty workmen and
workwomen are employed in producing all the
leading lines in groceries and oilmen’s stores.
Batho’s baking powder is a specialty, and coffee,
spioe, flour, vinegar, soap, egg, baking, curry, and
pudding powders, salad and castor oil, sauce,
blue, blacking, &c., are largely made. The firm’s
Maori brand is well-known as always covering a
first-class article; but, singular to state, many
consumers still prefer imported to locally-made
goods, though these are frequently better and
cheaper. The extension of their business has
recently compelled Messrs. Freeman and Sons to
open an office and sample-rooms in Wynyard-square.
It is the invariable rule of the firm to purchase
Australian-grown material whenever procurable
in the requisite quality and quantity ; and growers
of coffee and spices, rice, sago, and so on, may
rely that any samples forwarded will be carefully
dealt with. The climate and soil of Australia
give variety sufficient for the production of many
articles in common use which are now imported in
large quantities. It is the aim of Messrs. Free-
man and Sons, themselves engaged in an Austra-
lian industry, to encourage Australian industry in
every possible way ; and those who recognise the
value of this policy will not be slow to aid it by
making use of the numerous and excellent articles
manufactured by the firm.
An up-country editor and newspaper pro-
prietor, writing to his Sydney telegraphic agent
recently, instructed him to wire no cable news re
royal or aristocratic doings in England, except in
cases of sensational scandal or tragic death, on
the ground that he “ really can’t afford to pay
even press rates for such stuff."
Oairna (N.Q.) aphorism: “We haven* 1
got much money: but, by Jove, we do enjoy our*
selves."— Toppy Longdkn.
“ Cursing is quick and prayers are long.
Call Satan but under your breath and he will
oome. But God —you may wear out your knees
and your voice before He will answer.”— Hobbes.


WOOL
sullis Co.
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDS BROUGH, MORT & CO. (Limited) [2V, M‘RVRNEY, E. S, WA LLlfi, A, UENSOtiU
It. C. FRANKS and S. A. HE AIK
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Xiilberal Cash. Advances if required.
PECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Eacli Department managed. toy a memtoer of tlxe
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY
Wool Warehouses: Margaret Street. Produce Stores : Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY,
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices: Macquarie
ALL TflE RAGE IN PARTS. Send 13
Penny Stamps for latest Parisian Preventer
live. National Drug Co., Russell-st., Melbourne.
Rflf. T. J 3 CLUNE,.
Of Walhewilte, South Australia
Completely cured of Indigestion and
Liver Complaint toy the use of sis
toottles of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla-
It is what others testify to from pergonal
experience anti knowledge of
AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
that tells the story.
<• gix years ago I had an attack of Indigestion
and Liver Complaint that lasted for weeks; I was
unable to do any hard work, had no appetite, food
distressed me, and I suffered much from headache:
My. skin was sallow and sleep did not refresh me 1
tried several remedies and consulted a doctos
without obtaining any relief ; finally one of mjj
customers recommended your Sarsaparilla, in
helped me from the first, relieved the distress
about’my liver, caused my food to set well on my
stomach, stopped my headaches and restored my
appetite, in fact, after taking six bottles I was
ci anpletely cured and could eat anything and
sleep like a child.”—T. J. Clone, Walkerville,
Soiith Australia.
ASK FOR AYER’S SARSAPARILLA.
Take no other!
By using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla the blood ia
thoroughly cleansed and invigorated and ths
appetite stimulated.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
(NstANt
$>T
JK (
'Oi
L
&
I
* -
S/
n
1 Wiiu
• INeQfVNU<jiA
OOT- l<J/v\6A<io •
o VsTiff Nt *> .Of -Trit Joi nTsl» oftw
AViHUifc soacWH£* OR^
ToQ]>iscH(a*
“TOMARTT
50frUSTOIHtCAUW>
YJ}.
CROMARTY
Wisto:
Greenlees Brothers
OUSCOWIONOONMO
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
K
A T O O M B
The PRIORY.
A.
Gardens, Orchard, Ballroom, Tennis adjacent,
Dairy.
Terms - £2 2s.
Mrs. J. W. FLETCHER.
MEN...
WOMEN
WHO HAVE USED “ FUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND CONSTIPATION
Cure” have found it a certain cure for all Liver Com-
plaints, Flatulency, Costiveness, Bilious Headache, Dis-
agreeable Taste in the Mouth, Alternate Chills and
Flushings of Heat, Loss of Appetite, Alcoholism, Indiges-
tion, Disturbed Rest at Night, Nervous Tremors and
Debility. By continued use it cures Constipation
permanently. <
Ladies will find it invaluable for the relief of
many Uterine Complaints and Efficacious in Producing and Restoring that
Regularity of Habit which is all important to their wellbeing.
We refrain from publishing- any of tlie many Testimonial*
we receive daily from persons who have taken this Valuable
Medicine, as the ruhlic has no guarantee of the grenninencss
of Testimonials printed by Patent Medicine Manufacturers; but the
unprecedented success “Puss’s Liver Restorative and Constipation Cure ”
has met with in all parts of the world, has induced the inventor of
this unsurpassed preparation to offer to any purchaser of it the
refund of the Price of 3s. Od. if the Medicine fails to cure
the ailments we recommended it for.
SOLD BY ill RESPECTABLE CHEMISTS AHD PATfiMT MEDICINE VENDORS.
Should it not be procurable locally it will be sent Carriage Paid to any part of the
Colony on remittance of 3s. for one bottle, or 15s. for six bottles to the
COSMOS APOTHECARIES COY.,
the Agents for the Australian Colonies. 674 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE GREAT
Scandinavian Remedy
—FOR—
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Chest and Pulmonary
Complaints, Nervous Exhaustion, Rheumatism,
Gout, Chalky Gout, Sciatica, Immbago, Neuralgia,
Bright’s Disease, Kidney and Liver Disorders,
British Cholera, and all Blood and Skin Diseases.
Thespian Institute, 168 Bay-street, Glebe, Nov. 22, ’93.
Professor Thulinius.—My Dear Sir,—l feel I should be want-
ing in duty, did I neglect the opportunity of sending you my
testimony as to the wondrous efficacy of your rheumatic
specific. For the past ten years I have been a complete
martyr to rheumatism in all its forms. I have tried doctors
. . . . with a view of effecting a cure for this most trying
disease I am well-known, and scores can testify
that at best I could only crawl about with difficulty. . . .
After leaving Little Bay Hospital at the close of last year I
was persuaded to try a bottle of your “Thulinius,” and in a
week or so afterwards I could get about fairly well. Upon
again suffering a relapse last February, I took another bottle,
with an equally successful result; but at last I determined to
go through a course of treatment, and I have just completed
my fourth bottle, with the gratifying knowledge that I am
quite free from pain, can walk any reasonable distance with-
out fatigue, have an excellent appetite, and feel myself again
competent to re-enter my profession, added to which my oft-
repeated attacks of pleurisy have become a thing of the past.
I have not dieted myself in any way, so all the credit is due to
your wonderful remedy, under Providence, that my- blood is
becoming purer daily, and its effect upon my liver and kid-
neys most pronounced. . ; . I shall only be too glad
personally to convince fellow-sufferers of the benefits to be
derived from a course of your treatment, as exemplified in
my own case, after ten years’ martyrdom.—l remain, yours
faithfully, W. H. NEWTON NEWMAN (Teacher of Elocution
and twenty-five years Actor and Manager),
[The Rev. J.D. Langley, St. Philip’s Parsonage, and Mr. H. 11.
Lusk, Barrister-at-Law, can testify as to the crippled state of
Mr. Newman prior to his taking “ Thulinius.”]
■
i\\B
i
Remedy
Dep6fc: 15 VICTORIA ARCADE, entrance from Elizabeth-street (near King-street) and Castlereagh-
street, opposite “ The Australia ” Hotel, SYDNEY. BOX 1405 G.P.O.
Write for Pamphlets and particulars of successfully treated cases.
Thames Electric & Steam Launch C?
a
&>
TS —- '7~si, y?
ELECTHIC LAUNCH “GLOW-WOEM,” 53ft. by 7ft. 31n.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager.
NGLAND
<9
Plum
th
PiO
THE
‘Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
Tt is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend this brand to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to its merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
■p • I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2ls.
i rice |gj n g] e R azoVj i n ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CBAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE LAST OF SIX.
Ode to the Philistines.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In an age of Mammon and Greed,
In an age of Humbug and Cant,
When Speech is greater than Deed
In the reign of the sycophant,
Let us turn from the shameless lips that babble
of things Divine,
And shout to the God we know not the song of
the Philistine !
All hail, as you gather and pass
From the mansion and counting-house,
Men with a front of brass ;
Men with the soul of a mouse ;
Men with the mark of the beast scored as deep
on your brows unclean
As the Jews of old who fled from the scourge
of the Nazarene !
Six days shalt thou swindle and lie !
On the seventh —tho’ it soundeth odd—
In the odour of sanctity
Thou shalt offer the Lord, thy God,
A threepenny piece, a doze, a start, and an
unctuous smile,
And a hurried prayer to prosper another six
days of guile.
You have judged by the rich man’s rule !
You have treated your thinkers as dust !
You have honoured the braggart and fool
Whilst Genius has starved on a crust !
For all that your creed demands to fit a man
for a place
Is a shallow heart, a noisy tongue, thick hide,
and a brazen face !
You have sold your daughters for gold }
You have sold, your hpnour for naught !
And your creed is easily told—
“ All things can be offered and bought !”
And you thank the good Lord God in your
pews, on your bended knees,
That you live in a cultured age—and do cul-
tured things like these !
In an age too enlightened and good
To call any wrong by its name,
Millions are crying for food,
Millions are living in shame,
Millions of human hearts, as God knows if He
sees and feels,
Lie bound by the System’s chains ’neath the
crunch of the System’s wheels !
You are slaves to customs and vogue !
You are timid to speak or to move !
You have worshipped the moneyed rogue !
You are walled in your narrow groove !
And the men with the noblest hearts who have
aimed at the Highest Good,
You have trampled them under your feet—
unheard and misunderstood !
For the spirit of old remains
That nailed the Christ to the tree;
That brought Galileo to chains
And Bruno to tragedy.
For the Philistine altereth not—unchanged
since the world began
He has hindered the Car of Progress and
murdered the Thinking Man.
Take heed, in your purse-born pride !
Take heed, in your self-bound sight I
The girth of the world is wide,
But thought is swifter than light.
And the voice of the vexed world’s heart no
system shall bind or hold—
Men who are beasts of burden—their souls are
better than gold !
0 Fools, who would rule by rote
The new by the byegone day,
Where the straws on Life’s current float,
Floats the thought of the world away !
We are tired of the treadmill days, we are tired
of the shams of old !
Progress must conquer custom. Thought is
stronger than gold !
Lo, whoever shall stand and fight
With the tongue, or the brain, or the pen,
For a larger measure of Right
For the mass of his fellowmen,
He is nearer the Unknown God than the chiefs
of a priestly line,
His life is a deeper prayer than the cant of the
Philistine.
Brisbane.
GEO. ESSEX EVANS.
Di gn ity—Ta ilor-in ad e i m por tan ce.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmusaen’s advt. on page
17 of this issue.


Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Oolemane& Sons’ Euoalypte Ex. is the strongest
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
I
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Paulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
The Fate of Moromi.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Moromi was a Jap. He had been discharged
from a ship at Singapore. He was wandering,
without a cent., about the boarding-house quarter
of the town, by the Tangong Packer Dock,
when he met a Godserang (crimp), who told him
that he could get him a nice, easy job “ over
there,” and he waved his brown arms vaguely
northwards, for his geographical knowledge was
of the vaguest, “in Australia. You’ll make
plenty of money,” he continued; “eight dollars
a month, and you’ll be able to steal plenty of
pearls—and by-and-bye you can become a diver,
and make a lot of money. Come along with me.”
Moromi went, in a patient, uncomplaining
fashion, and soon found himself amongst a crowd
of Malays, Manilla-men, Japs., Chinamen, and
nondescripts, in the emigration office. Each man
in turn was taken to the counter and gave a
name—it didn’t matter what. The name was
badly mis-spelt on a sheet, and without the
slightest knowledge of to whom he was engaged,
and with but a very hazy idea of the work he
was to do or the country he was going to, the
man had signed away his services for two years.
He was given an advance-note for a month’s
wages, and was then marched down to a shed by
the water side, to which his bedding and clothing,
if he had any, which was seldom, were brought
from his boarding-house. The advance-note, by
the way, was usually appropriated by the
“ boarding-master ” for the previous keep of its
rightful owner.
Two days afterwards Moromi, with theother men,
was harried on board a steamer and told he could
camp where he liked on the cattle-deck. About
20 days later the steamer reached the West Aus-
tralian coast and anchored in the midst of a flotilla
consisting of some 20 schooners and about a couple
of hundred smaller craft. This place was the
pearling grounds.
Moromi, with five other Japs, for company, soon
found himself on the deck of a schooner. He was
taken into the cabin and made to affix his mark to
the vessel’s articles. The next day he was put on
board a lugger where his work consisted in turning
an air-pump all day long. He soon got tired of
this occupation, however, and the diver of the
boat, who was one of his own brown and cheerful
fellow-countrymen, put him into the diving-dress
and told him how to go to the bottom,
Moromi soon learned to dive, and, after going
through the intermediate stage of tender, was
given charge of a lugger. He agreed, when he
was promoted to the rank of diver, to procure
shell, for which he was to be paid at the rate of
<£2o a ton. What constituted a ton wasn’t exactly
explained, but that didn’t signify. As a matter
of fact that alleged quantity opens and shuts like
a telescope, according to circumstances, and means
pretty nearly anything from 30owt. up to a pile
half the size of a cathedral.
Three Saturdays later, Moromi went on board
the schooner for “slop chest”—gin and other
articles—which were retailed to him at 500 per
cent., and more, on cost price. He took his
diving-helmet with him.
“ What’s the matter?” demanded the manager.
“Face-glass he leak,” returned Moromi.
The manager looked at the “face-glass,’’screwed
it on, and briefly told him to go to the good old
British Sheol. “ It’s all right,” he said ; “ If you
come here with any of your carnation rot I’ll put
another man in your scarlet boat!” The manager
was a forcible man and had all the curses of the
Orient at command.
Moromi got a bit scared, for he wanted to make
a pile—in his innocence he though it possible to
do so—and so he went back to his lugger. He
gob very drunk that night on unaccustomed
liquors, and suffered a recovery on the following
day.
On the Monday morning he went to work. He
had hardly reached the bottom when the “tender”
felt four pulls at the line which he held. The
signal meant “Pull me up !’’ Something was evi-
dently wrong, for the pump began flying round
at top speed. There was a strong tide running at
the time, and though the tender pulled and pulled
he didn’t get an inch of the line in. The boat
was anchored, and those on board saw, a hundred
fathoms astern, what looked like a huge porpoise
floating in the water. The tender recognised the
object as a diving-dress inflated with air, but as
for hauling it in he might as well have hauled at
a continent. After three hours’ work witli watch-
tackles, they managed to bring the diver—or what
had been the diver—alongside. They lifted him
on board with the halyards of the mainsail. The
helmet was without a face-glass ! It had fallen
off while Moromi was on the bottom, and the man
was drowned by the water rushing on to his face
through an aperture about six inches wide. When
the matter was reported to the manager on the
schooner he said to the tender, “ Take him ashore
and bury him ! ” In the schooner’s log-book was
entered under that day’s date : “ Moromi, diver
in lugger, Alice Warner, drowned in dress.”
Nothing was said of the complaint made on the
previous Saturday.
Was the manager tried for manslaughter ? Oh,
no ! Nothing more was ever said about Moromi.
The books showed that he was in debt to his em-
ployer, and there is a debit balance against his
ghost to this day.
HONEST GEORGE.
Eternity—the wait for universal honesty.
“England is the hand, France the heart,
of the world.”— St. Simon.
The fourth edition of Williams’ “Maori
Dictionary ” is just out.
Says a Melb. suburban wood-dealer in a
small way : “ The Tucker Village Settlement has
its board up at Toorak railway-station, in compe-
tition with a number of straggling men, who can-
not get a line of protest into the papers. I’m
going to sell off, bank my money, and go on to the
workhouse, viz., Settlement. Of course, customers
prefer to patronise the paupers—because, aided by
public subscription, these latter undersell me—
and so with the wood-cutter.-. ”
Christie Murray, writes The Bulletin’s
Loudon correspondent, has been trying, by way
of experiment, the effect of one or two recitations,
or rather stories of real life in the Black Country,
on a Palace Theatre of Varieties audience, with
very considerable success. It was a moot point
whether pathetic stories minus music would fetch
'em, and Christie has proved that they will, most
undoubtedly. This is probably the first time a
novelist of any note has made an appearance at a
music-hall. Christie now knows where a tenner
can be easily earned, should occasion require it.
A Ballad of Shearing.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The bell is set a-ringing and the engine gives a
toot,
There’s five-and-thirty shearers here are shear-
ing for the loot,
So stir yourselves, you penners-up, and shove
the sheep along,
The musterers are fetching them a hundred-
thousand strong ;
And make your collie dogs speak up —what
would the buyers say
In London if the wool was late this year from
Castlereagh !
The man that rang the Tubbo shed is not the
ringer here.
That stripling from the Cooma side can teach
him how to shear ;
They trim away the ragged locks—and rip the
cutter goes
And leaves a track of snowy wool from brisket
to the nose.
It’s lovely how they peel it off with never stop
nor stay—
They’re racing for the ringer’s place this year at
Castlereagh.
The man that keeps the cutters sharp is growl-
ing in his cage,
He’s always in a hurry and he’s always in a
rage.
“You clumsy-fisted mutton-heads, you’d make
a fellow sick,
You pass yourselves as shearers—you were
born to swing a pick ;
Another broken cutter here, that’s two you’ve
broke to-day—
It’s awful how such crawlers come to shear at
Castlereagh. ”
The youngsters picking up the wool enjoy the
merry din
They throw the classer up the fleece, he
throws it to the bin.
The pressers standing in their box are waiting
for the wool,
There’s room for just a couple more, the press
is nearly full.
Now jump upon the lever, lads, and heave and
heave away,
Another bale of snowy fleece is branded “Castle-
reagh. ”
From South and East the shearers come across
the Overland,
Upon the slopes of Southern hills their little
homesteads stand,
And all day long with desperate haste they’re
shearing for their lives,
The cheque they earn at Castlereagh brings
comfort to their wives.
So may each shearer tally up a hundred slfccep
a day,
And every year obtain a shed as good as
Castlereagh.
THE BANJO.
Pasted on a paddock cate at Gulgong,
N.S.W. :
Cortin Nottiss—Know cows is aloud in thees hear
padicks. Any man or wumnien lettin’s his cows run the
rode wat gits into my padicks afoarsed shall hav his tale
cut off by me and the dorgs suljd on her.
Editor Bulletin, —Yesterday I turned up
a centipede with 10 or 12 young ones, apparently
perfectly formed; they were three times the
length of a grain of rice, but not so substantial in
proportion. The mother’s anxiety was altogether
centred on getting under cover. As fast as I
removed any soil under which she had burrowed,
she made off. I brought her back several times to
the young ones, of which she took no notice.
Anyhow, she didn’t swallow her young.— John J.
Kenny. Turramurra, N.S.W., Jan. 23, 1894,
Dear Bulletin,— As a Protectionist I
would like to know—does The Bulletin prefer a
“ Land Value Tax ” to a Protective policy ? That
N.S.W, is not a Protectionist province I know.
She is bastard Freetrade only. Still if she had an
ideal Protective policy I think a few years would
land her, industrially, about wheresheisnow, unless
the unimproved value of land were taxed that
large estates might be burst and a further mono-
poly in land prevented. Whatever the N.S. W,
fiscal policy may be, the lands of the province
would be monopolised by the few in time. Look
at Vic. and the U.S. A.— Omega. [The Bulletin
doesn't prefer either a land-tax or a Protectionist
policy. It prefers both. — Ed, B.]
Melb. Argus has still the crudest ideas as to
gaining penny popularity. The leading article of
its Saturday’s issue will start with an announce-
ment that “It appears that Mr. Gladstone is to
translate Horace after all,” and a column of
dreary dissertation upon Horatian translations in
general makes the youthful yawn and grave men
nod their heads. As a scholarly address the
article is possibly, nay probably, of very little
value. For modern newspaper purposes, such a
heavy, old-fashioned exposition of the writer’s
classical knowledge has no value at all. But the
Argus somehow cannot shake off the shackles of
its nasty faith in Horace and Virgil and Homer
and the rest of literature’s early fathers and
fetishes. A dull-minded schoolmaster named
Brown may produce 500 pages of feeble revision of
some other learned fool’s translations, and the
Argus will proceed to criticise Brown at length,
as though he were a matter of public interest.
Truly there is no future save oblivion for the
penny journal which respects pedantry. The
gods can’t give it a large circulation.
Dear Bulletin, —In your issue of 20th
Jan. you refer to the monopoly of the wool-selling
business held by the London brokers, and the
fact that our wool, meat, wheat, &0., are sold at
the sweet will of various combinations. The same
thing applies to Melbourne. The leading wool-
broking firms are associated and are pledged te
maintain a scale of high rates and charges for
selling wool. Last year a new co. started business,
but were refused admission to the Wool Exchange,
and met with the greatest opposLion from the
W.B. Association because they proposed reduc-
ing the high selling charges levied on the grower
by that body. The principals in these associated
firms are men who rave about “freedom of
contract,” “private enterprise,” &0., and are
sworn enemies of all trade organizations-the
shearers’ union in particular—but who, at the same
time, do not despise organisation in conserving
their own interests.—H. A.


“ Men I Have Smiled With/*
W
E STAY &t SjfUtoii'Hli
wnnamoi)
THE LANGHAM HOTEL,
OHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-atreet, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY, TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
Brisbane, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
j-invnivnY
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
a
GRAFTON.
REAVES’ FAMILY HOTEL
Is undoubtedly UP TO DATE.
SOUTH GRAFTON.
\T OU CAN’T BEAT COWAN’S HOTEL
JL By Much.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
MACLEAN.
rrRAVBLLERS and others pronounce Walter J.
1 folblgg's Commercial Hotel Comme ilfaut.
KATOOMBA.
Temora House,
A High-class BOARDING HOUSE, pleasantly
situated, well recommended. Porter meets all
trains. 355. a Week ; 6s. a Day. Redaction
for Visitors remaining a Month, also for .Families.
Mrs. DALE.
MOUNT VICTORIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds, poach to the Caves daily. .Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
J£ATOOMBA, BLUE MOUNTAINS.
Balmoral House.
Visitors, Tourists, or Invalids, will find comforts
of a refined HOME at above ; good airy rooms,
excellent table and attendance. Terras, Two
Guineas. Private suites if required. Trains
met. Address, MANAGER.
MOSS VALE.
.OODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
Station) is where we always stay.
MOSS VALE.
QYDNEY and MELBOURNE TOURISTS and
L 5 TRAVELLERS find every convenience at JOHN-
SON'S COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
KATOOMBA.
MR. J. BLAKEY’S “ Sydney Livery
Stables,” in Cascade-street, offer the
very best of vehicles in the place. Ladies sulkies
of the newest pattern.
Ladies’ Hades thoroughly trained.
WENTWORTH FALLS,
BLUE MOUNTAINS.
Visitors from the seven Australasian provinces
will find the most princely accommodation, and
the grandest views at
Toll’s Hotel , Wentworth Falls.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
Miscellaneous.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CLUES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD m PARIS by
j. f £: nn x:
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCO A
3 *
EMBROCATION
P Jr
■M
in •%
£
SOLD
' EVERYWHEREvi. |h
3/6
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition--No. 11.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to • Friday, 23rd
February, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sura of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
Ths Bulletin's ” Missing Word Competition Coupon. Ko. 11.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon,
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin’ Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Friday, February 23rd, I SJI.
The Marquis of Lome suggests the formation of an “Order of the Star o *
tralasia and Canada ” as a reward for politicians who have boomed the cause
Federation. The brightness of the lies in the fact that every other colony,
right down to little Montserrat and Walfisch Bay, will be aggrieved because its na
isn’t mentioned in the pompous title of the order, and the end of Imperial leaera
will be worse than the beginning.
Name
A ddress
Missing Word ;
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received no deduction whatever bring made. Shoidd there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
jVo replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper.
DISTRIBUTION OF PROPERTY.
PROSPECTUS
—OF THE—
Victorian Property Distribution Syndicate.
In 60,000 Shares of £1 each, to be paid in full on application. No further Liability.
Purchase and Distribution of Victorian Properties
-A-CGOiRIDIEirsrG- TO LAW.
£1 may secure £30,000 worth of property.
Promoter :
Mr. P. W. MILLANE.
t*i *hr •
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED, Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Solicitor :
F. H. BICKABBY, Esq.,M.A., LL.B., Broken Hill Chambers, 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE,
Offices :
Cromwell Buildings, Bourke and Elizabeth Streets (opposite Post Office), Melbourne.
ITIHIS Syndicate is being formed to purchase the very valuable properties of Mr. P. W. Millane, as set out in Schedule A hereto. On
-1 the completion of the Syndicate, the said PROPERTIES will be TRANSFERRED to a TRUS TEE in TRUoT for all the
MEMBERS of the SYNDICATE as TENANTS in COMMON ; and the PROPERTIES (divided into 103 lots, as per Schedule A) will
then he DISTRIBUTED AMONGST the said MEMBERS (the owners thereof) BY BALLOT, the DRAWING to be CONDUCTED
PUBLICLY, in MELBOURNE, after due notice of time and place, in the presence of as many members of the Syndicate as can attend,
and of the Press. The Hon. J. C. Duffy, M.L. A., the Hon. R. D. Reid, Daniel White, Esq., and other well-known gentlemen, have
consented to be present at the drawing for the distribution of the properties. In the event of the list of members not being completely
filled, a proportionate purchase and distribution will take place. Every person desiring to become a member of this Syndicate must sign
the agreement as set out in Schedule B hereto.
The Properties will he transferred to successful members FREE OF COST.
IiIST OF PROPERTIES
No, Description.
Estimated
Value.
1. The Valley Farm, Bolinda <£30,000
2. Brick Mansion, Elsternwick 4,300
3. Brick Mansion, Elsternwick 4,200
4. Brick Mansion, Elsternwick 4,000
5. Brick Mansion, Elsternwick 3,300
6. Brick Villa, Richmond 1,512
7. Allotment of Land, Oakleigh ... 300
Bto 11. Four Allotments of Land at
Brunswick (each .£204) 810
12 to 21. Ten Allotments of Land at
Elsternwick (each .£120) 1,200
22 to 105. Eighty-four Allotments of
Land at Glen Iris (averaging £lO7
each) ... 9,000
100 to 103. Fifty-eight Allotments of
Land at Sunbury (about £22 10s.
each) ... ... 1,312
The Promoter has received a standing offer for
each and all of the Building Allotment Properties,
which can be seen at the Office of the Syndicate.
CUT THIS OUT.
THIS APPLICATION FORM TO BE FILLED IN, SIGNED AND FORWARDED.
Prospectus of the Victorian Property Distribution Syndicate.
To Mr. P. W. MILLANE, Promoter of the Victorian Properly Distribution Syndicate,
Bourke and Elizabeth Streets, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
I, the undersigned, hereby agree to become a member of, and to purchase
Shares in, the VICTORIAN PROPERTY DISTRIBUTION SYNDICATE on the terms
and conditions of the Prospectus of the said Syndicate, dated the 20th day of January, 1894,
as published in the Argus and Age Newspapers of the 20th day of January, 1894; and I
appoint you, the said P. W. Millane, as trustee of my interest in the property of the said
Syndicate, and, as my agent, to sell or dispose of my said interest, according to the said
terms and conditions, and to sign on my behalf all document§ necessary therefor.
I enclose £ and... stamps in payment for the said
shares in the said Syndicate.
Dated this day of 1894,
Signature....
Address
N.B.—Register your letter, and keep Receipt till reply is received.


MITCHELL’S
—CELEBRATED—
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS— W
Fleas, Flies, Fugs, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches,
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer-R, T. BELLEMEY, Chemist,
151 King Street, SYDNEY (late Kidney’s).
Tins, 1/-; Boxes, 1/6. On receipt of stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1/9.
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT—
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Sole I^la.inLiract'urer
OF THE
CELEBRATED
LION "
PM
J s
TRADE M APu
BRAND
Co nfe ctio nery .
Warehouse; CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Box 1034, G.1’.0
Telejmouc 073
&
9
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silm and Slectro-platadi Goods
jtle:
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD
S3a.o"W R.O 3ms;
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, SYIDWEY.
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
Terms—ios. 6d. per »ay. 'W&ltGr SlClllSy date of Newcastle), “Prop.”
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
“THE EAST of SIX”;
osacaipacßQa
ERNEST PAVENC,
With prefatory note by
Holf Boldrewood,
PRICE : : Is.
Posted to any Australian
Address, Is. 3d,
“ The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a par. The
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes whVvigour about the doings of the whites and the natives in these faraway
parts; A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who are fond of
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”—S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893.
“ No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc, and the secret of this is that
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcely any other writer.
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under notice he has given us some of
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain.”—Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893.
“ They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy- arising from long contact and keen observation, striking pictures of
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as happen in wild places
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men. ‘ The Last of Six ’is a terrible
tale of cannibalism, treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous, but which Mr. Favenc makes of
thrilling interest. ‘ The Haunt of the Jinkarras ’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, but is itself relieved from the
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, in which Mr. Favenc here and there approaches Poe. This
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘Spirit Led,' which the great American might have written. ‘A Cup of Cold Water ’ is, perhaps, the
best tale in a collection that should be widely read, and which forms a worthy addition to purely Australian literature.”— Daily Telegraph,
July 15, 1893.
“‘The Last of Six;’ and other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney: The Bulletin Newspaper Co) This is a collection of short but
graphic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the stories here are good,
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection. The present issue forms the third of The
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences.” —Australian Star, July 15, 1893.
LADIES!
Your attention, please, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Spring.
MARK FOY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coming season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight
in a daily visit to FOY r ’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental artists dt fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
Great is the curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination could conceive.
O
LADIES !—One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices.
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney .
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRIv.ES.
Soard. neaidence aa/fc Moderate Charges,
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent hoarders.
m
i
■
m
MM*
-A l m .L.. ; £.L.a,'
.INCLUSIVE or SEPARATE TARIFF, AS DESIRED.
Luncheon, d la Carte , from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D'llote , „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s.
S3T Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may always rely upon
getting a First-class Meal.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
