

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
4
Parsons’ Flaked Oatmeal
Killing
9
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK —
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
A
30
4?
r 4>
Jo
o
o
O
<RAc^AjoCK>
O
<?
G
ti
O
V
K. A. Hwvc.v, Agent, I’llt-M . S.iUuej.
W. H. SIMPSON Sc SON,
SADDLERS
to His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl of Jersey,
% Lord Carinoton, etc.,
385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING and HAND BAGS, ETC.
A Singh Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
Tlxe
Oxford Hotel, Sling Street;, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Pkopkietok.
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
‘ Duff, K.C.M.G.
--THE-,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
MILK .. .. The Purest Country.
CREAM .. •• Double or Single.
•• •• The Clearest Crystal.
BETTER .. “Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
E’ISII .. •• Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
CAME .. The Choicest Sorts.
I’OELTRV • • From the famed Farms of the Colony
PASTRY, Ac. .. The most Exquisite.
The Carts of ihe Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by 1 the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORVN ARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony: —
XMLXr.K, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Fastry,
Sydney, Ist July, 1893.
etc;.
11. BATESON,
Manager.
TfalKiM
Sole
w«--
-the-
Oldest Plough-makers
In the World.
TEE EDILDEKS
OK THE
Fii'Lt Iron Plough in ths World.
We have a reputation for- Plough*
making all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
which is not to be equalled by any
of the younger and less experienced
firms.
E -CT-gg-A J » KTFF.it net PLQUCH
owA H O s
:Z.:. '■
—the—
Howard Digging Plough*
The most perfect Cultivator
> tt made.
To be had in all descriptions.
ALL CLASSES
—OK—
Agricultural Implements
smd JMAX'HIMiKV.
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely-extended SHOW-
ROOM-?.
toward, 2SO & 2801 Pitt Street
Syd.ney,
The Bulletin
y ol 14»’““~*iS o. 7 40. j
Saturday, May 12, 1894.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Medical
STOP THAT COUGH 1
TAKE
Certain Cure for
coughs, Colds, influenza
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all
TH RQ A T and CH ES T CO MPL AT NTS.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Sold everywhere.
[Please mention this paper.]
Wholesale: 179 Harris Street, Sydney*,
( Registered )
WHlfraiE
Universally admired. Other Odours
Ewi, n ? 0 ?, sense, but Atkinson’s
w lute -Rose ’ ’ is ever fresh and sweet.
ATKINSON’S
EAXJ DE COLOGNE
Eenowned for a couple of centuries,
this Perfume has given rise to a legion
of Worthless Imitations. Use only
Atkinson’s English —the finest.
Of all Dealers.
&E. ATKIrwSON, {
24, Old Bond Street, London, j
CAUTJOfI !—Only genuine with shield- i
shape blue and yellow label and usual
. trade Mark-a “White Rose"- J
gk and address in full. JM
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering- from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
i earn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all Kindsl Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, -without doubt, the most success-
T^ Ug * h u- befo ~ e ~t he P ublic - Address, AURAL
SPLOIALIST, Albany Buddings, 39 Victoria-Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for' bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
.tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, ~ disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
rafferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they wdl be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
M a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
squal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
abstraction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
if the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
irgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring' back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
snergy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
CCH4
&
PATENT
PILLS
■;
&
*
'V
Beechain*s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
tnd Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
ind difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecbam, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), and at
!s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
ivery where.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
A BLESSING IN EVERY 'FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes » grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkorp-st., London. £;;*?“■ p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious
&
\
WOULDN'T I LI KE TO BE IN IT
y%]-. t‘.
MANUFACTURED BY THE
KMW TOMK & BROOKLYN, TOBACCO 'CO.,
* "-■> Cleveland. Street, S'i'iD'iSrjEJY. ’# : • *
Mod’cvl.
Tlie First Step
■■'.'•V' -'V , A £■■
FOR-
NERVOUS MEN
B3T APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
' ; ■ ■■■-v - ' i
POSTED TIiEE BY ' )
Dr. M. P3EEY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY. ;
Dr. REDOE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOT)
we have examined.”— Chas. E. Piessb,
M.R.0.5., F.C.S., &c. Wm, Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAIi FOOb MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH} STRENGTH AM> ALGOL JißS7;bt
Hi Four Weeks by the use of
O b RECORD’®'
t-
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regeMerating all the important elements of the hitman frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry Co., 7.3 Gertrude
Street, Fitxroy, MELBO URNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
hj/1
?MBRO CATIO
R
,n
S> ,i,r/ mv J
r HSOLO i?*wy
R F
\ EVERYWHERE*
$
... Medical.
j. ‘ ’ K. r '.? J. ' •
T /
KRUPP
Chain SSJ
r /
Nt;--:
f
f
■ r : ' ■ /'IF SO;' *
DON’T MISS THIS.
\yhat evervAite says Is bdsnd to be true, 1 and young and
Old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try / '
THE "FJTJPP GrALVANIC , BELT,
All agree in pift sing that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances.-. For. Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at piice succumbs to its power. The
NSrvousmre.strengthened aiid'the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigdur. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, .or-Shronic Diseases,
I'-' and is
Guaranteed to Absolutely Cure
completely: and the'lollp'vi n gi com plain ts; —
Dyspepsia, Neur&hjm, Pahvs idtke Jftark and Oust,
Lumbago, d'cttawfi, Rheumatism, 'Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, [Kidney Com-
pi dint, Spinal , Disease,’' Feiiudp Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, .Diabetes,., Sdal ica.-Atrophy, (hut. In-
digestion,’ Asittmu,"Pilesf Epilepsy Spermatorrhcm,
Specks before the, Eyes, Excessive HedH Palpitation,
Defective Memory. * -v . .*■
An Unfailing' Cure for Varicocele.
. It is, a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and,, health. aid taking USE-
LESS DRUGS? Electricity, when- properly applied,, is
acknowledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians
to he the-, only- Safe and 'fiadicaPoure for Nervous and
Sexual. Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials re-
ceived by the Krupp Belt CO. from leading personages
throughout Australasia prom thhainquestionable curative
properties of Electricity as applied by the'applianoe above
•referred to. Our confidence iiv this appliance is »o
■ ■'ru complete, that
We Send the Belt Out on Trial,
and guarantee, to give perfect satisfaction. For full par-
ticulars as to termer' &c., send for our large illustrated
treatise, FREE, in which these Belts are fully illustrated,
the action of Electricity on the nervous system explained,
and a lot of useful information on nervous and sexual
diseases given. This treatise also contains facsimile of
testimonials received from some of our clients who have
tried our Belts. The originals of these testimonials pro-
duced on application.
IESf” The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l, !
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . A. W. Courtnrv.
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT CO.,
BOX 647, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Remember —The K.G. Chain Belt is easy to wear, is
ent on approval, and the first cost is the only cost.
Are to be found in the “Light and Life*’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Ss CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE— Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
“the BULLETIN.”
(Published at Sydney, N.S.W.)
The unlque Weekly-Australia's Nouparcll
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper ibhich has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policyv
Ihe Bulletin favours —
A Republican Form of Government;.
Une Person, one Vote. '
Comofete Jecularisation and Freedom of State
Ref( System fcl ' e ' Criminal Code.and Prison
A lie- 1 W ( )dd Stra^a Protection against
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
urn mam an, the cheap nigger, and the
''x4d^ded Ur ° Pean PaUper alj Bolut^iy’
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
otate monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers ,by Parlia-
■'ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
- A n ® w Parliamentary System - one House to
oe elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
hountry voting as one Constituency. <'
A Insurance Syste “ of Compulsory £|fo
The entire Abolition" of the Private Owher-
ship of Land.
I he Referendum.
Ihe Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility. ’
e^e re i ects as uninteresting more
ar J a °r w hat appears in the‘newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin. -- ,
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest: The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains v
and has become the representative Australian*
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly -spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or !ess endeavoured to profit by its exaMple
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing ’
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
hrst issue of The Bulletin. v
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had, at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. 1 hey are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success iti
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility On the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress : it is the forceful summons to .the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the'cla l ms of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised,"' The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared bv its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of ail Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bus liman of the Far North?, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi.
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical.
J
1112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECI A.LIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
ami Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subj cts. Formerly Medical Officer of
I lea'th (L mdon Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English G ivernment), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician,
r us eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Y cars’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now co nplet'd the revision of his popular work on
“NERVOUS 4. SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this t append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of R-movery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing a ter Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness daring the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mo ith during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients shoull send One Found
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
chid s Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is off-red'?' Dr. J. Vm6s will, on receipt of £1!
send the necessary rem dies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the m >st obsfnate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
d avours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
« e k ess, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. with
■ niinenily sdidnotory results. Asa proof of my con-
lid.-nee iii the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
f am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertia*
ing rny treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Charge KT otlaing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should writ; to Dr. for Advice and Treatment; ho
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications \
Dr. JJECKELaL VIKTES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
rpHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which wih
-L cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
atnount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise. .... , ~
NOTlCE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 03 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
2| NERVITA
""" Cures in 21 Days
DEBILITY and NERVOUS PROSTRATION
in all stages however caused; never returns.
THOUSANDS of young, old, and middle-aged
men have PROVED beyond a doubt that the only
REMEDY to effect a QUICK PERMANENT
self-cure is NERVITA. When you are tired of
trying other so-called remedies, and have given
up all hope, send for sealed particulars (1 REE)
of the 21 days’ CERTAIN CURE. Address-
NERVITA REMEDY ACENCV, Box 399
G.P.0., Sydney. '
BEEP IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTTS),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
“ ABSOLUTE liY MJUE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
Medical*
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOXT3XTO- 3VCES3XT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches;
giddiness ; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing ; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WOEK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
debility,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time,” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not_ Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR ,
Ah in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS,, uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
{Two doors front Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Publications.
aEORGK ROBERTSON AND COMPANY.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE, and LONDON.
NEW BOOKS.
Two Shilling Novels, picture boards, posted two and four-
pence ;
Gunter, a Princess of Paris
Sims, (Q.R.), My Two Wives
Warden, A Wild Wooing
Linton, The One Too Many
Fane, Helen Davenant
Epps (William), Land Systems ol
Australasia 2s 6d posted 2s lOd
Todd, Parliamentary Government In
British Colonies 45s „ 48s
WHAT
Cupipi
ƒ
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“ Kush for flic
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post. 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Besant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 8/6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should
be, by Annie Besaut, 1/-, postl/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Beading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. Ft. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, A!52 10s. and .£57 13s, 4d.
STEERAGE ... ... £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Branch Passenger Office,
Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Dates of Departure,
Steamer Commander Sydney Melbourne Adelaide
Noon Noon. Ip.m.
May 27
. J’ne 27
AM’D BEHIC IA. Poydenot July 27
V. DB LA ClOTATiPiaSchi
POLYNESIEN h. Boulard
May 31 June 2
July Uuly 3
July 31 Aug. 2
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON ; £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberalconcessionsto families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their lugttage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
■\y EST
AUSTRALIAN GOLDFIELDS.
COOLGARDIE and THE MURCHISON.
The Adelaide Steamship Company’s Fine
Steamers leave Sydney WEEKLY. Best accom-
modation and Lowest Fares. Apply
G. S. YUILL & Co.,
17 Bridge Street, SYDNEY,
BROTT’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
r*
p. O. BOX 920.
Qualified Specialist in the Diseases of
MEN
Nervous, clironic, skin,
and Special diseases of.
Treated ■with guaranteed success. Weak-
nesses removed and lifp made worth living
for. Fits, Bladder, and Kidney troubles
cured. Vigor, health, and manhood restored
WOMEN.
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle aged, and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire con-
fidence and success.
All Consultations Free, and Curable Cases guaranteed.
ViffOP Pills for lost vitality, debility and
weaknesses. 55.» or 21a. for 5 boxes.
Female Pills for irregularities and obstruc-
tions. 10s. & 20s. per box. Guaranteed O.K.
LEPROSY,
Pimples, Freckles, Grog Blossoms loul bores Complaints, Headache, Jaundice,
Urinary Difficulties Bright’s Worms, Fitl, Piles, St. Vitu’s’s Dance. Typhoid and
Biliousness, Inffigestion. Heart n onßumD tion Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Lum-
“ R “'“ “* ““ ° ,h “
Blood and Skin Diseases
Guaranteed to be Sptedily
Infallible Remedy. It exp? ls J* 11 In i? p leanse s Heals, and Beautifies the Skin, and restores the
Microbes or Germs of all Please • oomp i e tely cured numerous sufferers after they were turned
HAIR quickly and lu»unftl£ It has comp neglectedt as Asiati c S have spread
out of - hospitals incurable. No Australasia. Dr. KOCH’S treatment is the only cure
LEPROSY and its kindred Diseases all oyer A underBtand LEPROSY, hence the
for these loathsome afflictions. Oolom c LEPER patients. Dr. KOCH’S wonderful
LAZZARETTO is the awful doom 0 4J a “Q BS Solution , are only obtainable direct from us.
Blood Purifier, and his marvellous P k . 10/( f 2 1/-, 42/-, 84/-; carriage free throughout the
Unobservable packages, with jackets’ for Private Complaints, 14/-, 21/-, 42/-, 84/-, carriage
•colonies, 13/-, 25/-, 48/-, 90/. p P qq/.. Parcels of either Blood Purifier, or Skin
free throughout the colonies, m > ' f •' 5/ p.Q. orders must accompany orders.
SS£&£°S» confidential. ORANGE BUTTER CO.,
Street, SYDNEY, sole Anattalas.au .».nta.


Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
Colemane & Sons’ Yic. Ointment is marvellous.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal, Oil is A one.
Colemane & Sons’ Encalypte Ex. is the strongest.
The Only Certain Moustache Troducer.
miimm
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10 «
Sole Agents:
Craig & Aitlcen, 680-682 George-st., Sydno y
“ 111 Try It
*
The Result.
Ti
/
ELEBBfIT
«
LEEDS.
if
THE
MOST
DELICIOUS
SAUCE
N
THE
WORLD.
It makes cold meat a luxury.
Makes the plainest viands palatable.
Agrees with the most delicate digestion.
. Possesses a pleasing piquancy.
Blends admirably with all gravies.
SIMPLY PERFECT WITH CHOPS, STEAKS, FISH, &c.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Tillock & Co., Kent & Liverpool Streets, Sydney.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
girw^gippg*
for
the
WOKLD-RESOWSED
HAIR PRODUCER^RESTORER
PRODUCES
Ml
Luxuriant Hair, Whiskers and Moustaches.
Prevents the Hair Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Remedy for
BALDNBSS.
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre-
serving, Strengthening, and rendering the Hair
beautifully soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc.
Also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, it is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless, and devoid of any Metallic or other in-
jurious ingredients. Is not a Dye. The Best messing. Specially prepared for Toilet Use.
Is, 3s Cd, 3s 6d and 5s fid per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists, Hair Dressers and
Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & 00., 95, HIDE HOLBOEN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
f
ƒ
ThamesElec™
ELECTRIC LAUNCH "GLOW-WORM," 53ft. by 7ft. Sin.
ov
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e,,
M anager.
£
11
THE LAST OF SIX.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in tlio World!
Bar Wone.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Walesdheir home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of the colony, com posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try bdr Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
Eor General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Diver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilms , =—=====
—Bnchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
. “I) George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the publi > to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Bead what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not 'ike
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions (fßile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveners.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.-8888-I find thrse Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening ; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
e xeits a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANET WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD "ROW A CO.,
Sydney.
The Faroo "River.”
(Accent on the Par. Inverted commas o'er the River,
(FOR THE BULLETIN).
It Was a week from Christmas time,
As near as I remember,
And half a year since in the rear
We’d left the “Darling-Timber.”
The track was hot and more than drear—
The long day seemed forever—
Hu't now we knew that we were near
Our camp—the Paroo River.
With blighted eyes and blistered feet,
With spirits out of order—
Half mad with flies and dust and heat
We’d crossed 1 the Queensland Border.
I longed to hear a stream go by
And see the circles quiver j
I longed to lay me down and die
That night on Paroo River.
’Tis said the land out West is grand—
I do not care who says it —
It isn’t even decent scrub,
Nor yet an honest desert;
It’s plagued with flies, it’s broiling holv
A curse is on it ever ;
I really think that God forgot
The country round that river.
My mate —a native of the land —
In fiery speech and vulgar.
Condemned the flies, and cursed the sand,
And doubly damned the mulga.
He peered ahead, he peered about —
A bushman he, and clever —
“ Now mind you keep a sharp look-out;
We must be near the river.”
The “nose-bags” heavy on each chest
(God bless one kindly squatter!)
With grateful weight our hearts compressed—
We only wanted water.
The sun was setting (in the west)
In colour like a liver—
We’d fondly hoped to camp and rest
That night on Paroo River.
A cloud was on my mate’s broad brow.
And once I heard him mutter :
“I’d like to see the Darling now.
God bless the Grand Old Gutter 1”
And now and then he stopped and said
In tones that made me shiver—
“ It cannot well be on ahead,
I think we've crossed the river. ”
But soon he saw a strip of/ground
That crossed the track we followed —
No barer than the surface round
But just a little hollowed.
His brows assumed a thoughtful frown—
This speech he did deliver :
*■* I wonder if we’d best go down
Or up the blessed river ?”
** Where is the gory, blessed stream ?”
And he replied, “ We’re at it!”
I stood awhile, as in a dream,
“ Great Scott!” I cried, “is that it ?
Why, that is some old bridle-track !”
He chuckled, “ Well, I never !
It’s nearly time you came out-back—
This is the Paroo River!”
No place to camp—no spot of damp—
No moisture to be seen there ;
If e’er there was it left no sign
That it had ever been there.
But ere the morn, with heart and soul
We’d cause to thank the Giver—
We found a mouldy water-hole
Some ten miles down the river.
HENRY LAWSON.
“Lord Rosebery promises to become a
sort of superior music-hall favourite. He is very
nervous and irritable, and his speech to the party
at the Foreign Office was a manifest failure.”—
Jeames, M.D. (Argus).
“Every civilisation is an aggregation of
Christs in the inverse—not the one dying for the
many, but the many dying for the one. Everyone
of these huge buildings—builded between the
missing of the rope, the breaking of the plank, the
rush of a man in mid-air, and the gathering up of
his fragments by his fellow-martyrs—is a Calvary
—a cross erected by the Syndicate as bloody sacri-
fice to Advertisement, its God.” — Randolph Bed-
ford.
“The mind of every intellectual human
being is part and parcel of the great permanent
mind of humanity; and even if its influence soon
ceases to be traceable —if the spoken words are
forgotten—if the written volume is not reprinted
or even quoted, it has not worked in vain. The
intellectual light of Europe in this century is not
only due to great luminaries whom everyone can
name, bub to millions of thoughtful persons, now
utterly forgotten, who in their time loved the
light, and guarded it, and increased it, and carried
it into many lands, and bequeathed it as a sacred
trust.”— Philip Hamerton’s “ The Intellectual
Life.”
The Yankee inventor literally makes moun-
tains out of molehills. One Brown was watering
his lawn and wanted more pressure. He cub down
a clothesline and wound it round his hose, when
the pressure doubled. That set Brown thinking,
and the result of his thought is the Brown-Seg-
mental wire-gun, which gives a projectile five
times the muzzle-velocity of the best modern
ordnance, and will penetrate the armour of the
heaviest iron-clad. It is made in segments like
the staves of a cask, and the whole transverse
resisting power is given by wire rope wound round
it. Once the air-ship is perfected, however, guns
and armour will be alike useless, since a few cans
of nitro-glycerine casually dropped will destroy an
army or a navy in the twinkling of an eye. In
a very few years this will be accomplished, and
either peace or annihilation must follow.


f
•s
BURJNTE Y, WALLIS & Co.
JV. M‘BVJtNEY
E. 8. WALL 18
It. C. FJtANKS
8. A. MEAD
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of
MOIIT & CO., and GOLDS
BROUGH, MOKT & CO. (Ltd.).
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Liberal Cash A.dvaxices if required.
PECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS. MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Eacli Department ixxa.tia.gecl Toy a. member of the
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A
Wool Warehouses: Margaret Street. Produce Stores: Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices: Macquarie
FOR COLDS,
COUCHS,
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL
Throat and Lung
DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
for children, an ever-ready remedy to be
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough, Influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell.
Mass., U. S. A.
HP” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each of our bottles.
LIGHT. STRONG CHEAP
SUNBEAM” O.K
Price, with Cushion Tyres ... £l4 0 0
~ with Pneumatic Tyres ... 17 10 0
Complete, with detachable brake, mud-guards and foot-
rests ; ball-bearings to all parts, including head and
pedals; unbreakable spokes; finished in best black enamel,
with parts nickel-plated; strong hammock saddle, spanner,
oil-can and tool-bag.
Further particulars (post free) from
EDGE & EDGE,
848 Pitt Street, SVOM'I.
The Hammond Typewriter .
NEW ANVIL and SHUTTLE
MODEL, unrivalled for Speed,
Alignment, Impression, Portability
and Interchangeable Type, takes
my width of paper. Send for
i peoimen of our beautiful work
uefore you buy any machine.
The MERRITT TYPEWRITER.
Used by Ministers, Docto.s, Teachers, etc. Price, £4 4s.
Sole Australasian Agents; REID AND WILSON,
7 Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
Copying done any style of type at lowest rates.
ƒ
GENTS’ STRAWS
—)x(—
Single and Double Brim,
S'rom 3s. 6c3L
&EKTT.»S TERAI.
PRICE, Bs. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
With Puggaree, £/- extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM,
PRICE Is by Post Is. 3d.
Colemane & Sons’ E ucal. Loz. are for the voice
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
f
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOR
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Special Advertisements
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
And
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in sevtre cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best oj all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Pro. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Yol. XVI.
“In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.”—Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Bikch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S.
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore lnfluenza, etc-
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
T. have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
Restored to Health
BY THE USE OE
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. GUMMING,
of Yarraville, Victoria, Australia, says:
“ About a year ago, I had a severe attack
of Influenza, which left me very weak, with-
out energy, appetite, or interest in life.
Obtaining little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recommended to
me, I finally tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and.
/Vg
from that time, I began to gain health and
strength. I continued the treatment until
fully recovered, and now have very great
pleasure in telling my friends of the merits
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and the happy re-
sults of its use. I consider it the best blood-
purifier known.” *
Ayer’s oX
Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair
Hade by Dr. J. C.Ayer & Co.,Lowell,Mass./U.S.A.
Musical Instruments.
XMAS BOXES!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away I! (only 30, OOO)
BE IN TIME.
Semi Four Penny Stamps ami yon will receive
in return a 4s. Song. Waltz or Piano Piece,
I K U K!
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Uememher this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY -
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
Gruns & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash,
Or on EASY TERMS from
6d. per week ea
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK!
At 2d. and 3d. each.— Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
fld. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
&W Write for Lists, and beware of WORTHLESS
imitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, &c.
DISCOUNT FOE CASH.
£2T Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers. “S 4
Hotel.
ice
at ft
“ (F,he (Sydney (Coffee ( Palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30a
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week. Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, GovernmentOfflces,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Dea,r Bullkwn, —Your interesting retros-
pect, “The Victorian Bar,” recalls a scene
between Chief Justice Stawell and Aspinall. A
case was being defended by Aspinall, before a
P'i;y, an d he wound up a rambling speech with :
I do not care whether judges are corrupt, as
long as juries are pure.” A solemn silence ensued,
broken by the indignant remarks of the judge to
the effect that he thought the reflection on the
Bench by the learned counsel was most unjusti-
fiable. He submitted that “ the purity of the
Bench of the Supreme Court of Victoria had
never been questioned, and he protested against
the degrading reference of counsel.” Boor
Aspinall was thunderstrieken—he had not the
remotest idea of having reflected on the Bench,
until a friend enlightened him. Then, in a voice
broken with emotion, and with big tears rolling
down his too-suggestively red cheeks, he blurted
out his apology: “If there was one man in the
world for whom he entertained profound respect
that man was his Honor. He begged he would
forgive the lapsus linyuce , and believe that he was
incapable of intentionally reflecting on the Bench.”
The judge was “visibly affected,” and trusted
the learned counsel would not say another word
about the matter. I think this was the last case
but one in which Aspinall appeared. The end
was fast approaching. A bottle of brandy before
breakfast was producing its inevitable sequel. His
last was a criminal case, and his intellect broke
down in the midst of it. But his sense of respon-
sibility did not leave him. From his bedroom he
wrote an almost incoherent letter to the Argus,
in which he tried to explain certain points in
favour of prisoner that he thought should be made
public. He said the frailties of a lifetime ap-
peared to be crushing him, and he besought the
editor to assist him to make clear his meaning.
The venue-room was changed to the lunatic asylum,
and long after he had left for England, “ Aspinall’s
room ” was shown by the attendants to visitors,
where the strong leather covering of the padding
was torn down like so much paper. He once
defended Dr. Beaney on a charge of wilful
murder, for some alleged malpractice in connection
with a barmaid, who died. The prosecution was
led by Dr. Tracey, the leading doctor of the time.
Aspinall made no defence, and called no evidence.
He simply cross examined the medical witnesses,
theconfiictingcharacterqf whose testimony secured
Beaney’s acquittal. Beaney visited him in his
cell and asked : “Do you remember me ?” “Yes,
you rascal,” replied Aspinall, “I saved your
neck.” He died in England, within a few hours
of the death of his wife in Victoria. She was a
postmistress in a country town. His son is said
bo have been educated by the Duke of Edinburgh,
whose acquaintance Aspinall made on his visiting
Victoria. It was Aspinall who defended the
lunatic O’Farrell, by whom the Duke of
Edinburgh was shot at Sydney, As a con-
sequence of the acceptance by Aspinall of
the brief, the loyal snobs of a certain lead-
ing Sydney club absolutely refused to extend
to the distinguished counsel the usual privilege of
honorary membership during his stay in Sydney.
One exception I would take to the comparisons
between past and present. I think justice has
not been done to Michie, reputedly the greatest
pleader the Australias have as yet produced,
as well as the most widely accomplished. All
sides concede him to have been the greatest
Parliamentary debater, as Higinbotham was
the leading orator. Did not the trial of
Bowie v. Wilson equal in importance, if not
in length, Speight v. Syme? This was a
case of libel brought against the Argus for alleging
that the most revolting cruelty was practised
towards the patients of the Lunatic Asylum, with
the knowledge and approval of Superintendent
Bowie. The disclosures were sensational, and
Michie’s eloquent pleading for the defendant has,
perhaps, never been surpassed. He was a man
who could reply in Parliament in a demolishing
speech without note or pause. Michie’s superior
claims to a Judgeship were indisputable, but his
caustic tongue had been felt and remembered by
those in whose hands lay the gift. In the fifties,
he was proprietor of Melbourne Herald, then
the leading daily paper, Higinbotham being a
contributor. He gave it up <£20,000 in debt, and
promised his creditors to pay them every farthing
—a promise he literally kept. When he was
being brutally hounded down while contesting
St. Kilda, he came to the edge of the platform and
said: “Against the accusations of my calumnia-
tors I place my past life, and if that will not avail
then I have lived in vain!” “The Lion of the
Land League ” never addressed another public
meeting. Higinbotham was defeated by Bent,
through a trick of the Melbourne Club, and
Michie by Snowball. The feeling of the mercan-
tile classes was so bitter against them that both
Michie and Higinbotham were boycotted, and for
18 months—during the tariff struggles—they
never received a brief. — J.S.


>■ ,iV-
• V:
mil
Petty’s Family Hotels Sydney^
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Is UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Barge, ivell-ventilated Bedrooms,
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladies’ Ss Gentlemen's Dining Sc Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’H6te as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
business Announcements.
HUFACTURE
55..«
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at ouce
PROCLAIM
the
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
World-renowned I
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s.,
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
Bank of Yan Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION.
grand Tottery
Conducted toy GEO. ADAMS (“Tattersail’s”) as Sole Agent.
300,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 372 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
-A-Pply Early.
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
E P. (IREGORY & CO.,
Limited.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SIDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
stea m Sngiues, Boilers, Gas Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tar Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 Apart-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, <Sr*c., are easy 0/ access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience, 9
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
Plum ’
ƒ
Plum
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
, an highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
A number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
registered and sent Rost Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Price
Sole
Kents:
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
Bistos at Lowest Bates,
Head Offices
-95
Pitt Street
Sydney.
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL,
mm
r
.. jy./
.-■'A
<y ■
Directors:
, Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
(Chairman),
/ Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.C.,
JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
It ia an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
r~p -pq~ “pfi
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
—OF —
NEW SOUTH WALES, Limited.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
CAPITAL :
Subscribed, .£1,000,000: Paid-up, =625,000.
Board of Directors:
The Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C., Chairman.
Rollo A, Cape, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
W. C. Goddard, Esq. Josiah Mullens, Esq.
Lesley George Herring, Esq.
THIS Company acts as Executor, Adminis-
trator, Trustee, Attorney, or Agent in the
Management or Realisation of Estates or Invest-
ment of Funds, and is prepared to take over
existing Trusts.
Solicitors for Trusts transferred continue to act
for the Trust.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
Manager.
Telephone No. 1207. Offices -Imperial Cham-
bers, 16 O’Connell-street.
STATIONERS’ HALL 00.
(C. E. PULLER & CO.)
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d.
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, good quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good quality, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.
OFFICE APRON FILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each.
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographic Pens, 2s. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from 3Jd., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, Moro. Leather, from 6d.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONERS' HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
385 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,'
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, JST.S. WALES .
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
Banking.
—THE—
Bank of New Zealand,
Sydney Branches;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can he ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Hank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. • £3,000,000
Paid-up Capital, as on the 15th December, 1893 1,625,380
Reserved Fund, as on the 15th December, 1893 1,103,845
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
James R. Hill, Esq.
J. T. Walker, Esq.
Jambs Milson, Esq.
Thomas Cabell, Esq.
Robert C. Close, Esq.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. James S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office-Old Itroad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
niHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
•“ (limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £30l),»'««
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,00 a
RESERVE FUND 23,0(i»
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The JEianh of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid up .. £200,000.
Reserve Liability .. 250,000.
Head Office - Brisbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Medical.
riITCETH.—A COMPLETE SET, ONE
JL GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages : -
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes;—“The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post, free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
absolutely
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, Ac
Sold Toy all Chemists and Storekeeper*
Wholesale by
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney.
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney.
TILLOCK & CO , Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney.
HOLDSWORTH, M'PHERSON & CO., Sydney.
MASSEY & CO ,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sgdueg.
FACTORY, YOUNG, N.S.W.
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
We are jusb OPENING UP a splendid assortment of WINTER GOODS — Tweeds, Serges and
Viennas, in all Shades and Patterns.
Tweed Sac Suit (to measure) 45/- .. .. Trousers, 12/6
Sergo „ „ 50/- .. .. Trousers, 15-
Corkscrew „ (Coat & Vest bound) 50/- .. .. Trousers, 16 6
Country Customers please WRITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SELF-MEASUREMENT 10RMS. Carriage
Paid to any part of the Colony.
J 1 LONDON <0 MELBOURNE TAILORING CO.,
S. M. BAUMASHE, MANAQER.I 31 EKSKINE STREET.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
VoL 14—W0.743.
SATURDAY, MAY 12, 1894.
price, ©a.
THE VALOROUS PARSON’S PORLORN HOPE
HOW HE HOPES TO ATTACK SATAN’S STRONGHOLD
It i it i~mlTfiTto
ƒ
“The Apostle of Prohibition.”
THE REV. L. M. ISITT, OF
MAORILAND. ,
THE EIGHT FOR TEMPERANCE.
The Rev. L. M. Isitt, a Maoriland temper-
ance captain, who in recent vigorous campaigna
has earned the titular distinction of The Apostle
of Prohibition,” is in Sydney on his way to the
General Wesleyan Conference about to he held at
Adelaide . . . and in conversation with a
Daily Telegraph reporter, he laid out the history
of the Maoriland temperance movement on a
rapid sketch plan scale -
“ Then you are evidently looking forward to a
big political temperance fight in Maoriland .
“Yes ; at the first opportunity.”
“ Did the women’s vote assist temperance
“Immensely,” Mr. Isitt said, “and from his
own point of view, Mr. Seddon never made a
bigger blunder than when he allowed female
franchise to become law, for sooner or later
women’s influence, it is generally agreed, will give
the prohibition party absolute victory.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Rev Annum , £1 ®
Half-yearly 01% 6
Quarterly... 0 6 G
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tits Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Thk Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. P.
Archibald.
The Editor tvill carefully read and acknowledge in the
• Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing ivith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS,
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Elect Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:- R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers In Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Neivspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future tvill be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, MAY 12, 1894.
Maoriland’s Foreign Policy.
Every now and then Australasia is seized
with a violent yearning after a foreign policy,
and the privilege of taking a hand in the
disturbances of the outer world. Queensland
was afflicted with this complaint a few years
ago, when M‘ll wraith annexed New Guinea,
and conferred on the Papuan for a few brief
weeks the inestimable boon of being Queen
Victoria’s own cannibal. Julius Vogel
got it also during his last period of office,
when he conceived the great idea of annexing
unquiet Samoa, and holding that archipelago
down with the strong hand. Victoria, with
its perpetual desire to Calvinise the New
Hebrides, has the same complaint in a chronic
form. And now Maoriland has developed
it a second time, for the Seddon Cabinet has
revived Vogel’s project, and wants to take
over the Samoan difficulty, and the conflict-
ing interests of the various kings, and the
local wars and jealousies and national bank-
ruptcy, and all the rest of the many Samoan
troubles. Of all these attempts at creating
a foreign policy Seddon’s is certainly the
most foolish. M‘ll wraith’s New Guinea
project had at least some semblance of states-
manship about it, for New Guinea, if left to
its own fortunes, was certain to be annexed
sooner or later by some European power,
and it lies so close to Australia that its
annexation might bring an unpleasant
neighbour to our very gates. Therefore,
M Ilwraith’s scheme might be set down as
by no means a foolish precaution, and it
Involved no foreign complications in the
present but rather tended to prevent them in
the near future. Also, Vogel’s abortive pro-
ject had at least one negative merit, for at the
time that garish financier devised it the State
which annexed Samoa had only the native
difficulty to contend with, the awful complica-
tion of “ European interests” being still in a
comparatively undeveloped state. Moreover,
Vogel and MHlwraith both had in them
the element of the typical buccaneer, and,
given the opportunity, were capable of
annexing anything under the sun and holding
it tenaciously after it was annexed. They
had the instincts of the shark and the finer
qualities of the alligator, and were both
eminently fitted to extirpate the local
aborigine and otherwise pave the way for a
new civilisation.
» * *
The present annexation scheme of the
Seddon Cabinet is foolishness pure and sim-
ple. For years past Samoa has gone from
bad to worse, until it has become a hopeless
chaos. Missionary enterprise has spread a
thin veneer of canting piety over the local
savage, and every Samoan with the slightest
semblance to respectability has family wor-
ship daily, and keeps a big Scripture in a
conspicuous place in his domicile. The
hum of the niissionary hymn resounds
all through the archipelago, and so
does the din of the missionary church-
bell and the dolorous wail of the
church service in which the native convert
acknowledges with unction that he is a
miserable sinner. Meanwhile, a feeble,
half-hearted kind of civil war has become
almost chronic, and every now and then the
Sabbath calm is disturbed by that armed
skurry which in Samoa passes for a battle.
Then the pious church elder comes back,
dragging the head of his enemy in the
dust behind him, and the holy choir hauls the
mutilated dead along the streets. A strange,
unclean, scaly religion has taken possession
of the islands, and the saved aborigine of
to-day only differs from the lost aborigine of
a few years ago because he has added a
certain loathsome snuffle to his other sins.
Also, the islands are troubled by drink, and
leprosy, and Robert Louis Stevenson, with
his long hair and coat of velveteen, and
by the conflicting interests of Britain,
Germany, and the United States ; and the
alleged Government at Apia has no authority
whatever, and no prospect of acquiring any.
Therefore, whatever State annexes the group
must reckon on a general war with the whole
native population if it seriously proposes to
govern its new territory ; and it must needs
suppress Robert Louis Stevenson, and
steer a difficult course among the German
and American naval filibusters who have got
into the habit of turning their big guns on
the effete local Government; and it will
have to wipe out the foreign traders in arms
and ammunition, and to pick its devious
way among many conflicting sects and creeds;
and to sort out conflicting land-titles ; and
deal in many other shapes and forms with
the most complicated political problem in
the Pacific.
# # »
Maoriland is undoubtedly better fitted for
such an undertaking than any other Austra-
lasian province. It is the only one which
ever had any experience of actual war, and
in the old days of the Taranaki campaign, when
the local troops fought many hard battles at
places with unpronounceable names against
chiefs with nine-syllabled cognomens, it
gained just the sort of experience which is
wanted for a guerilla war in Samoa. But it
was a costly experience, and the bill for
these tattered glories of the early days
remains unpaid even till now. Maoriland,
more than any other Australasian province,
has reason to keep the peace and to abjure
all foreign politics. Premier Seddon’s great
idea is a tawdry theatrical device which
has nothing whatever to recommend it save
that it serves as a cheap advertisement for
himself. Even the most insatiable pro-
vincial filibuster can hardly regard Samoa as
worth having at the price. The native diffi-
culty could doubtless be surmounted, and
the missionary difficulty and the leprosy pro-
blem, and even the incubus of Robert Louis
Stevenson could be dealt with more or less
satisfactorily in course of time. But who-
ever takes over Samoa muse inherit along
with it more European jealousies and com-
plications than can be found in any other
patch of territory of the size, and the com-
munity which goes out of its way to hunt for
such troubles is just as imbecile as the indi-
vidual who buys an incurable complaint by
auction, or gets himself measured for a pain-
ful disease.
* w #
Premier Seddon’s project is apparently
one part Jingoism, one part cheap and shoddy
advertisement and promiscuous gaudiness,
and the balance made up of that hazy yearn-
ing about the “ Anglo-Saxon destiny ” with
which every tawdry title-seeking politician
in the empire, is more or less afflicted. In
consequence of this yearning, the empire
has already taken over some three
hundred millions of assorted niggers and
several hundred insoluble race problems, and
is fast getting to have more destiny on its
hands than it can manage. In this matter
Australasia has been more fortunate than the
most of those dominions on which the sun
never sets. It has only three native pro-
blems of its own on hand, and two of them,
at all events, are rapidly settling themselves.
The Maori is diminishing in numbers, and
whac remains of him can be assimilated with-
out injury. The black Australian is fast
dying out, being helped towards that desir-
able consummation by means which are
better not investigated. The Fijian native
is also fading away to some extent under
the blessed influences of civilisation, and
hopes are entertained in many well-
informed quarters that the Papuan, who
will make a fourth aboriginal problem to
be reckoned with in the near future,
will, with the benign assistance of the
Queenslann sugar - planter, do likewise,
and leave another blank among the
works of God. Still Australasia has quite
enough racial problems on hand, and
doesn’t want to annex any more. And,
above all things, it doesn’t want to acquire
the most chaotic archipelago in the South
Seas ; a group which is too small to be of
any serious value, and too far off to be
manageable, and where there is a separate
and individual disturbance to every square
mile of earth surface. The politician
who would annex Samoa under present
conditions is capable of annexing perdition.
Probably Seddon fancies that some prospec-
tive title, of a better kind than the common
or garden order of St. Michael and St.
George, is growing for him among the
Samoan reefs and palms, and this may
account for the fervour of his new-born
Jingoism. Failing this, a charitable genera-
tion may possibly ascribe his great idea to a
mere penny - dreadful and scalp - hunting
variety of enthusiasm, in order to avoid
some even less kindly explanation.
The Necessity of Suicide.
Editor Bulletin,— Whether Mr. Pecksniff
inculcates morality from Todgers’ banisters or
the Victorian Bench, his state must plainly be
diagnosed as clerical obfuscation. That the
judicial wisdom of the community should fail
to recognise the necessity of suicide says little
for judicial wisdom and not much for the com-
munity. Why, sir, suicide is the social safety-
valve. The stress of civilisation every day
forces a definite number of human beings to end
their own existence—so far as existence is cognis-
able by the law and the senses. The suicide
has no choice in the matter. The choice is that
of inexorable law, exacting a predetermined
sacrifice. The pressure of social forces is vented
along the line of least resistance : the weakest
go to the wall of life, and leap over into —
whatever there is on the other side.
• * *
Savage man has two prime needs—food and
females. Civilised man wants, in addition,
riches, ease, admiration, and many other things.
If the savage is weakly, he starves or is killed.
If the civilised man is weakly, he kills himself.
In either case, death is the token of defeat in
the battle of life. And, as it is to the interest
of society that the strong, not the weak, should
survive, suicide is a good and not an evil. Like
disease, it is. simply a natural means of
strengthening the breed by weeding out the
unfit. Were the weaklings permitted to live
and perpetuate their kind the whole race would
degenerate. In order that some at one end of
the social chain may find life worth living it is
absolutely necessary that some at the other end
be crushed out of existence. The strong thrive
by devouring the weak. Without suicides to
scold or criminals to hang and torture there
could be no Judge Madden, Don Quixote
was astonished to hear that the duchess owed
her fine health and splendid complexion, in the
first place to God, and in the next place to an
issue in her leg. Suicide is the issue in the leg
of society.
# * •
The alternative to suicide is crime. Where
suicide increases crime diminishes, and vice
versa. So far from the suicide failing in his
duty to society, it is really because his sense of
duty is strong that he is a suicide. When it is
weak, he is not a suicide, but a criminal.
Society is war. When an individual is worsted,
he may take his thrashing fighting or he may
take it lying down. The suicide takes it lying
down. The Anarchist takes it fighting.
Surely the man who only attacks himself is
preferable to the man who attacks others?
Perhaps, indeed, Judge Madden’s remarks
were due to the fact that his miserable target
had only “ attempted ” suicide. I must say I
hate people who half do things. But it
should be remembered in mitigation of
censure that the crude method of cutting one’s
throat may easily fail if not done with one
stroke. The letting of blood immediately
snaps the nervous tension which most people
must reach before they determine to “ end it.”
Then the suicide either faints or changes his
mind.
» • *
It is shown that the man who kills himself
commits no offence against society. But society
commits a serious offence against the man whom
it puts under the necessity of killing himself.
The lot of the great majority of mankind is to
pass through a life of misery to an eternity of
torture. The misery is patent everywhere ;
and to escape from it we must climb upon the
backs of those wallowing yet deeper in the
slough. As to the torture, only a “ little
flock ” can dodge the cheerful hell of
Christian dogma. Has not the individual
devoted to such a fate ground for complaint
against society ? Society unites a man and a
woman more or less unfit for parentage, and
he is born. Why ? Simply because he cannot
help himself. He did nob ask to be born if
he had any sense he did not want to be born ;
but society takes no account of his rights or
wishes. All he knows is that one fine morning,
noon, or night, he emerges to a consciousness
of entity ; and then his troubles begin. Pro-
bably he is born with inherited weakness,
malformation, or disease; but society does nob
care for that. If he is not lucky enough to be
one of the 30 per cent, of infants who die under
one year, or the 40-odd per cent, who die under
five years, he must linger through life as long
as he possibly can ; and, if he rebels, society
pays a red-faced man in a wig, and, perhaps, a
waxed moustache, large sums of money to call
him names and take away the little freedom
that is left him. Where is the justice of it ?
# « *
Suicide is physical insolvency. A man con-
fesses himself unable to meet the engagements
of life. Society helps the man who cannot
meet his commercial engagements to wipe them
out and start afresh. Why not similarly assist
the social failure to turn over a new leaf in
another world ? The least society can dp, after
having taken advantage of a man’s youth and
inexperience to shove him into existence, is to
help him out again when he is old and wise
enough to see the folly of living. Recognising
this, William Archer rationally suggests that
society should establish lethal chambers in every
centre of population, where those who are tired
of life might be painlessly and expeditiously
done to death, free of cost to themselves. Or
automatic machines might be placed at street-
corners to end the woes of existence, by the
simple process of putting a penny in the slot.
Doubtless some such ideas will be adopted when
humanity shall have advanced to a true com-
prehension of its ethical responsibilities.
# # *
In spite of Hamlet, there is no ground to
believe that the Everlasting has fixed His canon
’gainst self-slaughter. If He has, the suicide
doesn’t know it is loaded. Had the Everlasting
any objection to suicides, it is the easiest thing
in the world to prevent them. A turn of the
wrist of Omnipotence, and we might be per-
fectly happy instead of profqundly wretched.
But Omnipotence isn’t built that way. It has
always seemed to me a curious thing that one
Everlasting should spend time and pains in
making a charming universe, then allow another
Everlasting to come in and play up old Harry
with creation, and put the blame on creation.
Just as if a great artist were to paint a splendid
picture and go and hire an unemployed to chuck
mud at it, afterwards telling the picture—“ It’s
all your fault for getting dirty !” Guy de
Maupassant thinks that the present mode of
race-perpetuation is very crude. It lacks deli-
cacy and refinement. He could have arranged
things much better. So could I.— Brigham
Brown, M.D., F.R.O.S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pastor Marshall and Deacon Skinner.
Rev. Alexander Marshall, of Melbourne, is
kind enough to mention from the proud eleva-
tion of his preaching perch that theatre-goers
are nob necessarily vicious. He himself has
been twice to theatres—once when Walter
Bentley got hold of the clerical lamb by its
wool and dragged it along to see “The Silver
King,” and for a second time quite recently,
when he did, with the pious intention of finding
worldly material for a sermon, purchase six-
pennyworth of gallery contemplation of ‘ ‘ Struck
Oil.” Situated away up amongst the unre-
generate near the roof, Rev. Marshall gazed
through the shimmer of gas heated atmosphere
upon a phase of the drama which displeased
him very much. In the character of Deacon
Skinner this godly “ god ” saw “ religion cari-
catured and held up to odium,” and he cannot
altogether approve of a form of entertainment
that includes items such as John Stofel’s
mortgagee. He will not consign theatre-
goers to damnation merely on account of Deacon
Skinner, he will not even assert that the
Church is free from snuffling hypocrisy ; but he
thinks it “ unfair to Christianity and unjust to
religion that such a hateful exception should be
represented as a normal fact.” Mr. Marshall
talked much more in the same strain, and
always on the false assumption that Clnistianity
and religion are inseparable from regular
Church attendance and parsonic influence. In-
asmuch as the fictitious villain, Skinner, was a
black-coated deacon, the rev. critic considered
him an unfair reflection on the doctrines of
Christ, a distinct wrong to the cause of modern
righteousness. Skinner, in sober truth, belongs
to one of the most useful ami legitimate types
of stage character. There is a moral in him,
the moral that professional piety creates profes-
sional humbug by encouraging the vulgar error
that respectability is allied to psalm-singing
and folding of the hands in prayer. If the
Church did not, by its lamentable pulpit
accents and tea-meeting manners, lay down a
code of outward signs of inward holiness there
would be no room for Deacon Skinner in
melodrama. He has no reference to real
Christianity, but is just a plain, coarse reminder
that church Christianity wears a badge easily
imitated by any despicable frauds who wish to
trade upon it. He holds those despicable
frauds up to odium, and if the genuine
article suffers through its resemblance to
the caricature, the genuine article has only
itself to blame. Now, as regards Mr. Mar-
shall’s contention that hypocrisy is a morbid
“ excrescence” (Mr. Marshall is Presbyterian
by persuasion) of Melbourne religion and “not
a normal growth.” Gan the good man consider
the story of the land-boom and its incidental
frauds, and conscientiously deny that the
tabernacles absolutely stink of Deacon Skinner-
ism? The smug, fraudulent saint is counted.by
hundreds, and thousands in Smellbourne. He
is the worm that has eaten away the hearts
of the banks, and consumed the substance
of men and women who trusted- in his
precious character. He gave freely to ■ the
church that he might victimise the congrega-
tions. He formed a long, wide, and • deep
unavowed conspiracy for deluding the .public
with a glamour of personal propriety. He was
a mighty power in Parliament, and-still crows
a mild spiritual crow upon the debris of his
former immaculateness. He even accomplished
an act of poetic justice by swallowing up the
savings of many parsons in his sanctimonious
gamble. Deacon Skinner not a normal fact—
The Bulletin smiles !
Bruiser Madden, C.J., and the Cat.
Chief Justice Madden, of Victoria, who, the
other day, talked such foolishness to a
would-be suicide, has been “orating” at
large again—this time on the question of
wife-desertion. Judge Madden’s remedy for
wife-desertion is the cat; a breezy and
vigorous flogging, in his opinion, is the best
thing to promote peace in disorganised families,
and to create harmony and good feeling
generally. The case under discussion was one
in which the desertion followed almost imme-
diately after the marriage, the husband having
apparently realised almost as soon as the
wedding was over that it was a failure.
The judicial assumption was that he had
entered upon his solemn undertaking in a
frivolous spirit, as a mere experiment or passing
amusement; and Judge Madden considered
that a vigorous flogging was the only thing
which would waken such as he to a sense of
their responsibilities. “ There were,” he said,
indignantly, “designing vagabonds who made
use of the form of marriage as a mere
cloak for the baser desires of human


nature,” and he was convinced that
“authority should be given, in such cases, to
order flogging, as he could see no other means
of checking an evil that had grown to terrible
dimensions.” Judge Madden, as a patron of
bruisers and a man who has, .from time
to time, derived amusement from seeing
one hulking individual bash another out
of shape, has probably become morally
deteriorated, and his moral deterioration may
account for his ferocity, though not for his
hideous logic. Therefore, The Bulletin wishes
to ask him several questions. It wants to know
(1) how many marriages Mr. Madden supposes
are built absolutely on a spiritual or intel-
lectual plan, and how many on the “ baser de-
sires of human nature ” ? Does Mr Madden feel
like taking an affidavit that there is 5 per cent,
of the spiritual element —or even2J? (2) When
Mr. Madden complains about the baser desires
of human nature being cloaked by marriage
does it mean that he would prefer these desires
—which exist and can’t be got rid of —in their
undressed state and hot cloaked by anything?
(3) What is Mr. Madden’s opinion about the
future happiness of the reunited family where
the husband has been brought to a deeper sense
of his responsibilities, and awakened to a
knowledge of his duties as a husband, by means
of the cat in the hands of the common hang-
man ? (4) What is Mr. Madden’s view of the
feelings of a wife whose lost husband is re-
turned to her under such conditions ? (5)
Would Mr. Madden propose to flog
wives who desert their husbands for no
apparent cause except the baser desires of
human nature, as well as husbands who desert
their wives? Wives who run away are
certainly few, and husbands are many, but the
reason of that is, mainly, that the wife who
leaves her husband generally goes away to
starve, while the husband who leaves his wife
gets rid of a burden and a responsibility. In
any case, the offence, when it is committed, is
the same ; therefore, if Mr. Madden doesn’t
propose to flog the absconding wife, why doesn’t
he ? Further, it often happens that a wife
would gladly desert her husband, but as, by
doing so, she would lose her sole means of sup-
port, she refrains, and, instead, is unfaithful to
him at home, and, as her sin is practically the
same as desertion, would Mr. Madden sug-
gest that she should also be flogged? Like-
wise, would he flog a man under similar
conditions, and, if not, then why not? (6) Again,
if flogging is beneficial to arouse a man, under
the above conditions, to a sense of his responsi-
bilities, how would it come in to awake him to
a sense of his responsibilities at other crises of
his life —say when he is going to take shares in
a dubious company, or to stand for Parliament?
Furthermore, The Bulletin would point out
to its learned brother, Madden, that there is
no evidence whatever that wife-desertion is
increasing—in fact, there is every probability
that it is diminishing. Shiels’ Act, however,
enables the deserted wife to make known her
wrongs in the Divorce Court instead of endur-
ing them in silence, and Mr. Madden, being a
shallow person with no true sense of his responsi-
bilities, and who uses his billet as a cloak for
the base desire of his human nature to be re-
ported in the papers, jumps to a wrong con-
clusion accordingly. And the fact that Judge
Madden can “conceive - no other means of
checking the evil” in question save by flogging
only proves that he is as bald in the conception
as in the head; it doesn’t prove by any
means that flogging would check the evil.
IE he were a patron of Buffalo Bill shows
instead of slogging-matches he would pro-
bably be unable to conceive any other remedy
than scalping, but that also would prove noth-
ing. Up to date the law has made no serious
attempt to try what imprisonment, penal
servitude, hard labour, solitary confinement or
sticking matches under people’s nails, to say no-
thing of tooth-pulling and nose-clipping, will do
in such cases, and until it has exhausted them the
Judge who asserts that there is no remedyfor
wife-desertion save flogging merely makes a
gratuitous ass of himself and talks through his
hat,
*
Wise’s “ Liberal Party.”
Parkes’ gushful follower, B. R. Wise, spoke a
piece recently at a Foreign-trade meeting at
Redfern (Sydney), and took the opportunity to
introduce a new term into N.S.W. politics. In
the course of his address he alluded at least 18
times to the “Liberal Party.” If Wise and
Co. are “ Liberals,” it, of course, follows that
everybody else is Conservative. These terms
won’t acclimatise in Australia. They are merely
the signs of Mr. Wise’s English university train-
ing, and his yearning to be English in all his
manners and expressions, and his blastiferous
contempt for whatever isn’t English but Aus-
tralian. Australia has got a Democratic Party,
and it has gone far beyond the “ Liberal” idea.
That English word has about it an odour of
pauperism. It suggests the patronising attitude
of the vicar and the squire, who are prepared
to make liberal concessions to the—haw —lower
ordahs, provided they , are duly submissive and
respectful, and pull their aggregate forelock to
their“betters.” Itsuggestsalms, benevolenceand
the lofty condescension of the superiah being. A
man isn’t spoken of as being liberal to himself ,;
he is liberal to other people. Therefore, the
Liberal Party is the party which is prepared to
give something as a favour to the masses;
while the Conservative Party is the party which
isn’t prepared to give anything. The Demo-
cratic Party, on the other hand, is the one
which is prepared, not to give a certain measure
of political and social equality as a favour, but
to take it in its entirety as a matter of right.
The Liberal is the representative of dignified
and lofty patronage ; the Democrat, of absolute
justice. “ Liberalism ” suggests Samuel Mor-
ley ; Democracy, George Washington. There-
fore, Australia doesn’t want any “ Liberal ”
Party, and throws the epithet back with
derision.
j
Grey on tne “Anglo-Saxon Destiny.”
Even , pkl George Grey seems to have been
seized with the old Anglo-Saxon complaint
almost as soon as he touched British soil. The
following scream, transmitted by cable, is a
depressing thing to come from such a source :
In an interview with a representative of the press. Sir
George Grev dwelt upon the destiny of the Anylo-Saxon
race, the federal ion of which, he said, would dominate
the world, with its council meeting at London, Washing-
ton, Sydney, Melbourne and Auckland.
Truly the saddest thing upon this earth is that
blessed “ Anglo-Saxon destiny.” Nobody
knows exactly what it is, or where it, is, or
whether there is really any such thing
at all, or whether, the Anglo-Saxon—if there
is any Anglo-Saxon—hasn’t already had all
the destiny he is ever going to have. But it
seems to be generally assumed that some-
where ahead in the dim future there is to be
a hazy and explosive culmination, or apex, or
pinnacle, or moral elevation, or something,
and the man who thinks he is an Anglo-Saxon
looks forward to this in much the same way as
he looks forward to the millennium—if there is
any millennium. Meanwhile, Grey makes a
pitiable mistake by going into particulars about
this shadow. The United States isn’t Anglo-
Saxon, in any case—even supposing there is any
Anglo-Saxon at all—any more than it is Celtic
or African. If the federation did come
about it wouldn’t dominate the world. Also,
its council wouldn’t “meet at London, Wash-
ington, Sydney, Melbourne, and Auckland,”
because Ottawa and Vancouver and Cape Town
and Dublin and San Francisco and various
other places would see it hanged first before
they would be left out, and there would be such
a row in Hobart as Grey doesn’t even dream of.
And, in any case, the alleged Anglo-Saxon
doesn’t so much want to get any more destiny
as to wash the destiny he has got already.
Even General Booth, pottering feebly around
in his efforts to do something in the immediate
present for the “ submerged tenth,” is of more
use to humanity than the patriot who yearns
over the future destiny of the race unto seventy
times seven.
That blessed fiction, the poor old cableman’s
“ bomb,” is again to the fore. In the present
instance, the dismal tale started under the
heading, in huge black letters, “ Another Bomb
Discovered. Narrow Escape of Royalty ; ” and
then it went on to tell how some miscreant
planted the awful explosive in the Guildhall,
and how the Duchess of Connaught and her
children were within a few yards of it, and
how, but for the valour of somebody who ex-
tinguished the fuse, they would have been
blown to rags. Everybody was so dread-
fully shocked for some time after that
hardly anyone noticed that the gruesome
bomb story was falling to pieces all the
time. First, the cableman acknowledged
that the Duchess wasn’t really “ within a few
yards ; ” she was only in an adjacent gallery.
Next the bomb-fuse w;asn’t alight; next the bomb
wasn’t loaded; and finally it transpired that the
thing was no bomb after all. In short, there
was nothing whatsoever in the yarn, but all the
same the vague impression remains that royalty
had a narrow escape, and that the loathsome
anarchist needs to be put down with tremen-
dous energy. During the same week several
more “ dynamite outrages ” were reported from
different parts of Europe, and in most of
them the bomb was providentially discovered
by the police when the fuse wasn’t alight.
Then it was naturally taken to police head-
quarters, and the valorous force presently
issued its own unsupported statement about
the deadly nature of the contents. For plant-
ing a harmless meat-tin where it can be re-
captured later on under sensational conditions,
and then reporting at great length on the awful
nature of the contents, the police and their
prophet, the cableman, have no equals.
An English Tory paper is of opinion that
anarchism will never be “ stamped out ” till
the ordinary processes are suspended and sus-
pected anarchists are tried by court-martial
and executed off-hand. The Bulletin cor-
dially endorses this view. Neither anarchism
nor anything else will be stamped out till
martial law—-which is simply a process whereby
the innocent and the guilty are hanged or shot
together without ceremony —is substituted for
the slow, uncertain, and troublesome methods
of the civil code. And neither anarchism
nor anything else will be stamped out
even then. No crime ever is stamped out,
in fact, by any sudden upheaval of law
whatever. Certain forms of crime gradually
diminish, no doubt, in the slow procession of
the ages, simply because the world grows tired
of practising them, or because it finds them
useless and unprofitable and uninteresting ; but
the sudden “stamping-out” theory is pure
idiocy. The law has been hanging men with
ghastly regularity for many centuries to stamp
out murder, and it isn’t stamped out yet. It is
only kept within certain limits, but within
these limits it doesn’t fluctuate to any great
extent. Now and then the law puts on an extra
spurt of hanging with a view to putting
down the crime for good and all, and then
it generally increases rather than diminishes.
The essence of the Hospital Saturday move-
ment is simply the use of sex-attraction to
“raise the wind,” The employment of young
women to blandish pennies out of recalcitrant
pockets is quite as objectionable as the similar
employment of young women as barmaids— if
that be objectionable. Hear the collectors’
experiences, as detailed in the daily press.
One says :
We have had nothing but kindness from everyone.
There are two charming young girls with me, and,
perhaps, that has a sort of—you know what I mean.
Another:
One old mm, who said he had already given, and then
passed by,- met one of the young ladies a little way down
the street. She is a very pretty Jewess. He stopped and
gave her half a sovereign, telling her it was just because
she was-a Jewess.
He said, this nice old man, that “he liked to see
things done without regard to sect or religion.”
“ But,” added the collector, parenthetically,
“she’s a very pretty girl.” Exactly. And one of
the collectors complained that the women ap-
pealed to seldom gave her a cent. Why should
they? But organise another Hospital Satur-
day, with well-dressed, dapper, waxed-mous-
tachioed young men as collectors, and the women
will part like lambs —if their husbands and
brothers find the funds. The Bulletin would
back a just-imported English dude, with check
pants, tan shoes, a drawl, and a gold-headed
cane to suck, against the prettiest girl in
Sydney—one collecting from the women and
the other from the men. How much would
men give to male beggars ?
— l_
One of Premier Patterson’s funny little “re-
trenchment ” jokes is a Parliamentary com-
mittee to report on suitable sites for a new
Melbourne cemetery. Sundry syndicates are
seeking to trade off their land for boneyard
purposes, and a number of patriots are travel-
ling around, or sitting in town at so much per
diem, to discover a convenient and wholesome
resting-place for the dead. With this end in
view they summon undertakers and grave-stone
masons, who naturally discuss the alluring
subject of Christian burial from an un-
prejudiced standpoint. For instance, no under-
dertaker considers that the soil is good for cold
remains when it happens to be so far off that a
majestic, unbroken funeral is out of the
question. He believes in giving the corpse’s
friends a fair chance to “hearse it” all the
way, instead of being obliged to pop the coffin
into a cemetery-train which runs right up to
the ground, and leaves no room for elaborate
obsequies. Monumental dealers also object to a
remote God’s acre for the reason that it tempts
loving husbands to erect small marble crosses to
Maria’s memory, whereas they would order
huge masses of granite if the cemetery were a
handy, fashionable resort, and the tombstones
were more exposed to public criticism. But
the point on which both branches of the trade
wax eloquent together is cremation. They
despise the bare suggestion of burning bodies
for 12s. fid. and putting the ashes into an urn
for the parlour mantel-shelf. Each undertaker
objects to cremation on “ sentimental grounds,”
whilst every mason shakes his head silently at
the committee and makes a few hazy remarks
about the Christian religion. So in due course
Parliament will .doubtless receive a report
stating that such and such a soil is best calcu-
lated to give pleasure to interments, and that
the feeling of the country is even more strongly
in favour of worms than before.
■+>
The second edition of the Speight v. Syme trial
is, if that be possible, several times drearier
and more abjectly prosy than the first. There
is the same evidence dragged out of the same
witnesses by the same tedious process of ex-
amination and re-examination and cross-
examination. The same counsel make much
the same woeful jokes as they did before.
The shorthand-writers take down the same old
testimony once more ; the newspapers tell the
dismal tale all over again ; the court yawns
drearily and shows the same gold-stopping in
its back-tooth as aforetime. All the interest—
if there ever was any interest —has gone out of
the ancient repetition. And, considering that
the whole thing can be found in its entirety in
the notes of the last trial and the reports of the
speeches and the summing-up, it would seem to
any unbiassed lay person that the new
jurymen might just as well have these
documents read over to them —any unemployed
actor with a good voice and a reasonable
knowledge of elocution could be hired for the
job—and give their'verdict accordingly. They
would get all the facts that way, and the only
thing they would lose would be the irrelevant
witticisms of Purves and Duffy and Deakin,
which have nothing at all to do with the case.
Also, they would get through the business in
one-fourth the time ; fully 95 per cent, of the
costs would be saved ; and the Judge might go
away and employ himself usefully by hanging
somebody in the time which he now wastes
over a twice-told tale. If the Law is capable
of taking in a new idea—which is more than
doubtful—it might seriously consider this one.
As far as can be gathered, the shearers do not
view the prospect of a strike with any
enthusiasm. Leaders and organisers talk big ;
but the rank-and-file are silent, though,
like the sailor’s parrot, they think a lot.
Officially, a strike is announced; privately,
the shearers are filling the sheds. The
shearers are wise. This is no time for a
strike, when the country is full of unemployed
labour, when every bush holds a beggar for a
billet, and for every man who throws down his
shears there are a score ready to pick them
up. The pastoralists know this, they have
ample funds, their time is well chosen, and they
have deliberate!}' ignored the unions in altering
the agreement, reducing the wages, and making
conditions of labour more stringent. A strike !
they wish for nothing better ; for they foresee
the inevitable collapse, and they hope that,
this time, collapse means complete ruin. Why
play into their hands ? The funds to be spent
on a strike would be much better spent in
settling the shearers on the lands of the
N.S.W. central division. And a strike is a
poor argument, anyhow. The ballot-box is
an irresistible one. The pastoralists dictate
because they have the political power. Let
labour get due representation and the
pastoralists will gladly come to terms. And,
if every man be true to himself and the cause
of Democracy, the coming N.S.W. election
should do more for the shearers than many,
many strikes.
Two enemies of labour in politics—the
Fat Man and the Fad Man.
Henry Wrixon’s proposal to resign from
Yic. Assembly, ere departing for Canada, has
been received by the press with a moan of despair.
Victoria, it seems, can ill afford to lose the
services of great minds like Wrixon’s. He is
necessary to the “restoration of confidence,” the
increase of natural products, the respectability of
public life, and so on. But no instances of
Wrixon’s usefulness are discoverable, all the same.
Beyond his Pharisaical bill to prohibit Sunday
newspapers, Wrixon has accomplished nothing
that The Bulletin can call to mind. He has sat
in a malodorous Legislature without making any
public effort to clear the atmosphere—nay, more,
he has always joined in the “Sssh !” chorus when
any coarse person proceeded to make a vulgar row
with a view of drawing attention to the bad smell.
As a leisured barrister and expert draftsman, he
might have introduced an honest measure for the
prevention of barefaced roguery in limited com-
panies’ liquidation, but he didn’t. Wrixon has
been merely a rich lawyer sitting silent and
eminently “respectable” amidst evidence of dis-
honest law-making and law-faking. For the sake
of democracy it may be hoped that he will stop
aw:ay from Australia.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped . Nam* ani
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
A. J.B. (South Rakaia, M.L.): Poem suspended
pending reconstruction Louis S.: Two good verses ;
the other two hopeless Pranx: Your epic would be
good if it were just a shade better, and would be bad if
it were just a shade worse. As it is, it is nothing in par-
ticular. ... Paul Blunt; You are not logical—only violent,
and feebly violent at that, whereby you spoil a good
argument Jim : One of the best things to leave out of
a paper which we have met with this year .. Sartor: The
“ baby mine ” kind of poem is a thing that no baby wants
to read. Any healthy infant would raiher have one good,
strong pull at the cat’s tail than hear 40,000 poems like
yours... A Plum: We 11?... A.G.H. (Longreach); Your
“solution of the social problem ’’ is about the crudest
affair of its kind on record. The social problem isn’t a
watch that can be wound up in one act, or a boat
that can be bailed out with a tin can... Yarrevah;
Tale unfinished. What becomes of the doctor, and
the corpse, and the horrified friend, and everybody? . . .
Pat; Not suitable for illustration R. Shuttle: Will
use in condensed form.... H. It W.: The sort of Australian
yarn which begins with “Hullo, let’s have a drink,” and
ends with “Let’s have another drink,” Beechworth ;
Thanks.... Sugar Bag: A coarse, commonplace immor-
ality, written in a bald fashion, with nothing to recom-
mend it except the Immorality .. J.W.B. (North Sydney):
Rhyme and metre all rights yet it only amounts to the
unadorned statement that if a man is in the bush a long
time without food and water he will die, and somebody
will see his bones if he happens to look at them.. A.R.
(St. Kilda): Thanks W.Q. (Murrumbidgee): Too long
and stragglesome G.P.B. (Wellington): We don’t care
much for the lovey-dovey kind of poem, and yours isn’t
first-class lovey-dovey either “ Jopez Maejurgle :
Briefly, you used the earhole of a disused skull for a
candlestick. That’s your whole yarn boiled down..
Ehor; A'joke without humour is just as useless as a
destitute capitalist W. Davis (N. Kington); Mostly
infamously stupid, except one which is only indecent.. .
P. Smith (Broken Hill): Rhymes too horrible to mention,
and no two lines are the same metre. In fact, no one
line is the same metre.... W.J.S. (Williamstown, Vic.):
You were always “led to believe that Australia is an
English possession or colony," were you? Weil, it isn’t
“English,” but British, for one thing. It isn’t a
“possession Australia, govern* itself to all intents and
purposes, and the connecting link between it and Britain
is that they have the Queen, yet the Queen doesn’t “ pos-
sess ” either of them. Also, it isn’t “ a colony it is five
colonies, only one of them is not officially a “colony,”
but a “province." So you were “led” to believe
wrongly S.E.J. (Mt. McDonald): Gold was discovered
at Kimberley about 1880, though the rush was not till
1885 Jog (Winton): Ode to your bar • Flossie
only of interest to you and the Flossie
H. Sutton: “ Anyone can run a paper.” Certainly. For
quite a lot of people, it is one of the very easiest roads to
gaol .... A.X.; This time, Mr. Griffin is understood to
stand as a cast-iron Freetrader. However, you had bettf r
get it from himself in writing Charlie (Q.): We know
of no Northern N.S. W. alluvial field where you could earn
much more than your salt. On some of the North Coast
beaches, some miners are endeavouring, with more or less
success, to drag out an existence.... J.8.A.: How do you
Know? Were you the sec.? W.H.L.B. ; Thanks
Pengana: Mean spite.. Eros: Welcome Northerner:
Things lose a lot of local magnitude when they get down
here. Brief, bright pars, are what we want... The Bard
(Bundaberg): Subject too much dragged out and too
much parodied — Bucoleuch : Tire Bulletin knows very
well that Britain isn’t England, but, as a Scotchman, you
needn’t hoil over so much because this paper spoke (f
Edinburgh swearing allegiance to “ England.” You
don’t want such an awfully commonplace person to swear
allegiance to Scotland, surely? 0.P.: Thanks
F.H.: See a doctor on the staff of one of the big hospi-
tals Wombat: If ever a time comes when the conven-
tional press freely and openly quotes The Bulletin, then
this paper will have the death-gurgle in its throat.,..
North Queenslander: Cases hardly parallel. The law
strongly distinguishes bet ween a crime incidental to an
act of felony and a crime incidental to an act of vagrancy.
... C.G. (Parua): You suggest that we print and pay for
a 4-col. fool of a yarn which has already been printed and
paid for, and which was never worth printing let alone
paying f0r.... A.E.L.: Verse good idea ; wants polish
A. A.: A remarkably commonplace reverie .. F.L.J.:
No visible merit... ,T. Tree: What flood? Have j r ou been
asleep for 12 months? W.E.T.: The man that makes a
journalist read two pages about drawing corks out
of whisky-bottles is an enemy of the human race
A. Macaush (V.): There is no more special need for arm-
ing the Sydney police with revolvers than there is for
maintaining in the N.S.W. criminal code a dozen capital
offences as against one under English law J.M.D.: It
may be truth, but it isn’t literature Codology; What
are you going to do when there are several applicants for
the same land ? Itpnust either be priority or ballot; and
when all the applications come in together it must be
ballot H.A.: Anticipated. . ,S. Cross: Your boarding-
school misses talk like boarding-school mistresses
Demos: Stale and indefinite O. Roe: Deficient in-
terest Wbitecross: Some merit of invention; wants
better treatment 8.8.8. : Tale-motive hackneyed:
may use... Blunt: The Bulletin is cosmopolitan, and
does not regard Italians and Russians as “ foreigners ” in
Australia any more than it regards Englishmen and Irish-
men JayKay(Perth); Thispaper triesnottobeastamping-
ground for blatherskites Ambrose: Mostly the same
old yarn. You met her ; gave her ±'s for “a fresh start
in life;” and afterwards you got a letter returning the
fiver. Which latter is the only thing new in the story
Ar.: Self-effacement is the best service such a man can
render to the democratic party. While human nature
and human prejudice remain what they are, the candida-
ture of such people injures the chances of all other candi-
dates of the same party. The knowledge of even an ex-
piated offence against the laws will be unscrupulously
used to bring discredit upon not only the offender, but the
cause he professes to serve McG.: May use “ Gancy;”
write G. Essex Evans, Patents Office, Brisbane T.
Bakblox: Thin, old, feeble; some grace of style in-
sufficient to counterbalance Harobtd: Ask them your-
self . E.J.8.: Send along everything really good and
short ...Colin M‘C.: But we didn’t get your sketch of
the camel-race M.M.: Useless to dish-up English papers
for us Ishmael: Tersely state your grievances and give
us a chance of knowing what they are. Life is too short
to evaporate Niagaras of words. Use three square inches
of paper, not three 640-acre paddocks Mo.: The com-
plaint of the Rentoulians is that Miss Sutherland, in
carrying forward rescue work of children under the wing
of the kurruk, is “ too passionate” in her sympathy, and
not Presbyterian enough H.P.E.: No.. , K.S. (Hobart):
One shilling credited to ensuing competition.... Cruel
(Goulburn): Not Id. the Is., Is. in the £.
The two “armies” of unemployed who
were said to be moving on Washington with a view
to general devastation seem to be mostly a cable-
graphic invention. The first army, which started
from California, was to consist of 25,000 men, but
it only gathered 19 deadbeats all told. By the
time it reached Texas it had swelled to fifty men,
and a month ago this force was stranded at the
lonesome town of El Paso, on the Mexican
border. The second army, led by the much-
advertised Coxey, was to muster 50,000 men, but
only 75 turned up, and of these 52 gave up the
contract the very first day. The expedition was
then plodding miserably through Ohio amid
heavy snowstorms, and appeared to have no definite
purpose whatever. Its leader is a rich man who
is vaguely described as a “ free silver theosophist
he also believes that he contains part of the soul
of Jesus Christ, and that the balance of it is mostly
embodied in his partner, Carl Browne. Both of
them are badly deranged on the subject of Revela-
tions. Coxey and his “officers” travelled in a
waggon and put up at hotels, and the “army”
walked and foraged for itself. The commander
of this circus seems to be, to all intents and pur-
poses, a harmless lunatic with spectacles and a
far away expression; and his following is ap-
parently animated mainly by humorous motives
and a desire to take a hand in anything that may
turn up.


M. & H. WOOLF & CO.,
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants,
And Importers of Walking Sticks and Lowe & Co.’s
(L. & Co.) Pipes, are now open to transact business,
WHOLESALE and RETAIL,
a' t’icir new premises, 376 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY Post Office is next).
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A G °od a»d, Cheap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
sss
Manufactured by
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
I'AVKIEMi (Switzerland^
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. Thev are longer better filled ,„ , ■
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25-they oo tyonless andtvouLw vn 1 ' 6r th - an
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle. ’ y y K b 110 &enu,ne
"VTO. 8 SILVER SONGSTER now ready.
Containing “Silly Fools,” “Pleasures of
Eliza, Linger Longer, Loo,’’ and 100 other
Songs and Parodies, Gaga, Comic Dialogues, &c.,
may be obtained from all Booksellers, 6d.
8 SILVER SONGSTER now ready.
Containing “Tommy Atkins,” “That’s a
Pleasure Awaits You, My Boy,” “I Wasn’t So
ifi U V.k 'I s A, and 100 other Popular Songs.
All Booksellers, Cd.
[?]
846 Maequarie-street North, Sydney,
~ .. May 9, 1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The official opening of the Women’s College
within Sydney University, on the sth of merry
May, might have been an ordinary reception with
ice-cream trimmings, for to all outward seeming it
was a crush of well-dressed people—principally
women (though one daughter of Eve with full
sail on fills the eye more than three men) all on
tho nearest approach to a broad grin that society
permits itself. As if, in point of fact, the Women’s
College were more of a rich joke in ’Varsity circles
than an educational white elephant that ought to
be taken as seriously—as it will be when the bills
come in.
I was stupid enough to miss the inaugural pro-
ceedings by Lady Duff (squired by Mr. Gallon with
a pearl scarf-pin on), and arrived in time to see the
company crowding into the tea-room as if to sup-
port the allegation that brain-workers require
more refreshments than hod-carriers. Despite its
eagerness to reach the sandwiches, the crowd was
most picturesque. If I were a ’Varsity girl 1
would certainly pursue those branches of book-
learning that lead to a tomato-red hood turned
up with rabbit-skin—it looks so striking on fete
days. I think the most conspicuous object was
the educational Pooh-Bah in a bright red gown,
like the Cardinal or Portia, and the oddest turn-
out among a muster of really stylish dresses had
leather straps and buckles where buttons usually
occur. Dow a woman with that taste in trimming
must envy a horse its harness!
The first Women’s College in Australia is a very
large red building with its face turned to suit the
road and not the weather. In this summery land
no. well-regulated fagade should face the west, and
Die broad front balcony and verandah of this
Temple of Minerva will be hot enough to roast the
girl-graduates whole in their jackets in seven
mouths’ time. It was a full-dress rehearsal at the
College on Saturday, I may tell you. In one
room (there are 26 bedrooms) you saw the snowy
white bed, the erudite well-thumbed books (the
novels were all up the chimney for the time being),
the afternoon tea-service and the whole setting of
the studentesses, who are very cheerfully housed, if
they aren’t depressed by the fact that the present
number of feminine seekers after higher-grade
knowledge fills the big building about as cosily as
three split peas fill a 400-gallon tank. In the
dining-room the point of admiration is a beautiful
freeze round the top of the wall. I haven’t spelt
it correctly—there oughtn’t to be two e’s—but,
then, one’s thoughts run on frosts somehow at the
W.’s College.
There is one reassuring thing to be said. Now
that Potts Point has got its pet “intellectual”
fad done into solid mortgageable bricks and
mortar, it has got its whim for better or worse,
and whenever society thirsts for an opportunity to
perform in public, the Women’s College—doomed
to be the horse-leech’s daughter among public
institutions—will be an evergreen excuse for Miss
deVere to show off her skirt-dance at five shil-
lings per head. Whether society will get “Jack”
of providing hay for its white elephant is a horse
of another colour.
There are 12 men to balance four women in the
Bauble Shop at Sydney Lyceum, so, of course,
I liked it—even better than “Mrs. Tanqueray,”
which was scarcely a ladies’ play, for it seemed
to slap women in the face so. There is one tip-
top dress in the “ Bauble Shop,” worn by Mrs.
Brough—cream satin with big sleeves, and waist-
tags of green velvet, white lace epaulettes and
diamonds; and as Mrs. Brough is forced to do
the scene—like a peacock tied to a dingy balus-
trade—merely to lighten the black-coated aspect
of the 3rd act, it vvas just as well she was rigged
so handsomely. Emma Temple, attired in pale-
grey silk with a saucy blue velvet jacket edged
with brown fur and a hat to match, probably
decided the winter fashions for half the women in
the stalls, and Miss Noble, as the supernaturally
“green” ingenue, wore brown—the livery of
stage virtue in the humbler walks of life—also of
the laughing-jackass.
By the way, Boucioault’s brown coat only
wanted half a mile or so of “serpentine” braid
and a dart at the waist to look like the fashionable
feminine jacket of the moment, but otherwise the
tailoring left nothing to cavil at. The new man,
Mr. Franklyne, turned out to be an eagle-hawk
youth who paints his low-comedy mouth a vivid
scarlet, and who has learnt the value of catching
the eye of the gallery, judging by the frequency
with which his gaze travelled Olympia-wards.
It is unjust to fudge him from one ap-
pearance, but, so far, he has exhibited no
overwhelmingly satisfactory reason why he
should have invaded this country, except to
make the movement afore-mentioned, and give
the dress - circle a chance to fritter away
another bit of its fresh young affections. Which
reminds me that a Sydney girl had a birthday the
other day, and when her kind sister asked her
what she would like for a gift the damsel replied,
“ Give me Titheradge’s portrait.” The wrongs of
a married man do not make him sacred to im-
pressionable maidenhood when he happens to be
an actor.
There are generally two sides to every question
—but it is really pleasant to discover that His
maladroit Excellency of Titipu has a contra-
acoount of bad manners against the Titiputiaus to
balance his own tidy soore. Or, at least, his wife
has. Only the other day a muster of women
approached Lady Blank and begged her to fix a
date for meeting at Government House to arrange
the Whens and Hows of a big charity ball, also
to adorn the proceedings as president. And Lady
Blank graciously (when a vice-regal personage is
only ordinarily amiable the “ very best people ”
always employ that adjective) fixed the one and
consented to the other.
When the day arrived, one or two ladies who
keep an eagle-eye on their engagement-tablets
turned up to time at the vice-regal portal, and
found Lady Blank arranged in the drawing-room
waiting for the crowd to accumulate. And she
might be waiting still as far as that conscienceless
she-committee was concerned, for none of them
toed the scratch or sent in a written apology, and,
after giving the whole herd ten minutes’ grace.
Lady Blank gracefully withdrew from what should
have been the scene of action, conscious that her
side scored heavily in that round, at all events.
And yet these embryo committee-ladies (who
are, doubtless, still by the ears over the blunder—
a woman always blames her pals, and not herself,
if anything gangs agley) are not altogether in the
wrong. I think some of the contumely ought to
fall on the vice-regal p.s., whose mechanical duty
it is to advertise all such symposia in the dailies,
but who, in this case, hadn’t even a hint of it
either in the papers or in his book of official dates.
After all, it’s to be hoped that the ball won’t
fizzle out like a damp squib because a parcel of
short-mernoried women are in the habit of seeking
in the newspapers for their daily engagements.
Dr. and Miss M'Donagh were “at home ” to a
number of guests last Thursday afternoon, ehiefest
of the throng being one or two Austrian officers
off the Fasana (who are popular in Sydney because
of their English-speaking qualities), in whose
honour the “at home ” was held. Miss M'Donagh,
in lavender silk with a bodice of maroon velvet,
made a cordial hostess, and vocal and pianoforte
items supported the buzz of talk—M. Kowalski
playing the beautiful Austrian hymn in com-
pliment to the officers. Dainty refreshments
were served in the dining room during the after-
noon to the guests, amongst whom were Lady
Windeyer, Mrs. Eddy, in a stylish grey gown;
Mrs. Arthur Bennett, Mrs. Hubert Kelly, Mrs.
Backhouse and many more.
r i he season of charity balls is upon us, and the
working and Factory Girls’ Club ball promises to
open it so brilliantly, on the 16th inst. in Sydney
.Town Hall, that other charity-ball committees
will have hard work to keep up the record,
i here are to be fancy sets of all sorts and a sailor’s
hornpipe to keep the gallery spectators amused,
and late trams and trains make getting home the
easiest thing in the world. Tickets are eight
shillings each or three for one guinea, and Mrs.
Douglas Mackenzie, Mr. Justice Innes and Mr.
W. H. Edgar are honorary secretaries to what
promises to be the best public ball of the coming
season.
The snow-ball of Governor Duff’s unpopularity
grows apace, and now he has capped his Highland-
gathering exploit by snubbing the Guv’ment in
the recent Thetis affair. To put it plainly, the
Premier and the Colonial Treasurer invited Sir
Robert Duff to go to Grafton on the Government
steamer; but when His Ex. inspected the craft
that has so often carried Toby Barton and his
fortunes up the Hawkesbury, he found it to be
“too small,” and coolly informed the Treasurer,
one of his hosts, that he, Mr. See, would have to
travel by some o-her boat.
That was the signal for the scalping to com-
mence. “ Love me, love my Ministers” is Premier
Dibbs’ sentiment, and the questionable taste of
the Governor in taking it upon himself to weed out
his entertainers aroused the long politician to
“open wrath.” When he met His Excellency
there was back talk. The tall personage gave the
small potentate a bit of his mind without its
Windsor uniform on, and the result is another
avenue closed by which His Excellency might
have won his way to the loving ’art of the nation.
On dit that a strongly-worded petition, with a
regular _ comet’s tail of signatures, will go to
“ town ” before long; and meanwhile it is amus-
ing to hear some of the newspapers piping their
indignation against the Governor for not “invit-
ing ” the Premier on the red-letter voyage referred
to. As a matter of fact, Premier Dibbs refused
to join the party when Gov. Duff started to
govern it with the forte pedal down, so to speak,
Madame Lucien Henry’s thoughtful lecture on
the peasant-painter, Millet, at Sydney Y.M.0.A.,
on Monday evening, attracted a “ society ” house.
The Duff girls, with their governesses, were
among the audience, who received Madame Henry
(handsomely dressed in black satin with amber
satin panels) in a very cordial spirit, and with
many floral offerings. Madame Henry lectures in
a calinly-conversational style, very easy to follow,
and although the Y.M.C.A. isn’t the quietest
place in Sydney to harangue in, I think everybody
could hear, although Madame dispensed with a
sounding-board, and the Y.M.C.A. youths seemed
to be holding a bicycle-meeting on the floor above,
interspersed with shower-baths.
Madame Henry, whoso portrait appears else-
where in The Bulletin, lectures again on the
28th. She is a gracious woman, and by far the
most impressive daughter of France whom we
have had with us. To give the story of Madame’s
life, which began, as so many French comedies
begin, with a convent-training and a marriage by
parental order, would be to anticipate a story
which none can relate so graphically as the
heroine. Melodrama itself seems tame beside the
tale of this woman, who has experienced all the
vicissitudes of fortune, the extremes of wealth and
poverty, the dangers of the battlefield, exile, and
hunger in a foreign land, where sheer hard work
and pluck conquered an honourable position for
herself and her children.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Melbourne Confidences.
Melbourne, May 7, 1894.
Shakespeare’s birthday was made the occasion
for a soulful afternoon-tea at the Austral Salon.
A choice blend of sassiety and literary “lights”
attended “oulchaw’s ’’rendezvous to devour tattle
and cake, with homoeopathic doses of the bard
thrown in. The wild-eyed daughters of the Pen
(large P for Pen) were present in great force, and
to diversify a flighty display of new
season’s fashions by their severely masculine style
of dress.
A group of rather pretty girls, with toques
nestling daintily on their artistically-coiled tresses,
formed a striking contrast to their companions,
who at the first glance gave one the impression
of a stage-stricken younger brother or Byronio
cousin. Closer scrutiny proved this apparition to
be a local editress, wearing a vest, tie, tweed
jacket, and cropped head.
Another of the guild was conspicuous in a
crimson cravat, so that, to an unemanoipated eye,
Mdlle. Marie Liet, helping to hand round the
Salong souchong, and looking sweetly nice the
while, came as a blessed relief.
By the way, I hear this same young lady is
having her picture painted by a local artist, one
who is able to entertain his charming sitter and
her ma by fluent converse in their native tongue
whilst he works the colour in.
Lady Hopetoun, in her present r6le of a pilgrim
of sisterly love, has been undergoing dangers by
flood and field. (See Queensland papers). The
rivers are running bankers, and the
Bishop of those parts is shut up in his diocese and
couldn’t get to Melb. for last Tuesday’s ecclesiasti-
cal junketing, so the former part of the descrip-
tion may not be overdrawn. But, if there were
any “perils by field’’ to encounter, it was pro-
bably the Cairns people who suffered rather than
her sporting Ladyship, as shown by the following
narrative :
Some time back in a country district hereabouts
the Countess set off one morning on a hare-shoot-
ing expedition, driving a dog-cart, which looked a
tight fit for herself and her hostesses (two lively
sisters-in-law.) They soon returned, crestfallen
and out of temper, and complained that hardly
had they started a bunny and begun blazing away
than from the opposite bank of the small river,
which babbled at their feet, arose a cry as of one
in mortal extremity. Hasty search disclosed a
crouching in the bracken, who declared he
was ‘ nearly shot,” though there were no traces of
plebeian gore to account for his prostrate condi-
tion and moans. After orolonged discussion and
much clinking of coin, he confessed that he had
sustained no injury, but that an alarming
explosion of firearms, accompanied by a whistling
of shot through his whiskers, had given him a
fright he wouldn’t forget till Judgment Day.
I bis was consoling, but the incident had spoilt
the outing and the ladies retired from the scene in
a chastened frame of mind.
By-the-way, the Countess, en route to Cairns,
annexed the lively daughter of a Northern
Governor. Perhaps she thinks that the best way
to cure an attack of calf-love is to provide the
sufferer with a new and attractive peg to hang his
affections on.
Grass widowerhood is all the rage at present, and
though “the first gentleman of the land ” didn’t
enjoy a former experience, as testified by his un-
shorn chin and general air of sackcloth and ashes,
he seems fairly reconciled to divided bliss nowa-
days. Those who know say it is a habit which
grows on one, and an easily-acquired taste. This
adventurous better-half started for Bananaland in
excellent spirits—spirits that a wine-merchant-
would describe as overproof. Before, when from
a stern sense of duty, she tore herself away from
home and hubby, she boarded the P. and 0., with
beetroot nose and eyes, and not even a veil drawn
over her tear-stained cheeks. This dejection wasn’t
evanescent either, for she was never seen to smile
until the last week of her journey, when one of
the ship s officers flashed upon her with a witti-
cism, which it had taken him the whole trip to
perfect. Thence the frozen fountains of her mirth
broke up andshe laughed until the alarmed joker,
like the man in the poem, made a vow that never
again would he be as funny as he could.
Preachers are beginning to find texts, not only
m stones and running brooks, as recommended by
the poet, but in theatres, racecourses, and similar
lively spots. The pastor of Scots Church has
been dealing largely in novelties lately, with the
result that outsiders crowd out the rightful pew-
owners, several of whom the other evening
crouched on the cold floor all through the service,
and looked injured.
Go-ahead as Mr. Marshall is, however, he’s not
quite so much so as some people give him credit
a' t hear ,? a Paragraph, something to this
effect, appeared in a Scotsman, dated about two
years back. “The minister of ‘Soots Church,’
Australia, finding that his congregations have
been falling off, has hit upon a new device for
filling the kirk. He has ordered that all his choir
shall wear kilts. ’" The paragraph went on to say:
before and after the service a piper parades the
aisles, skirling an old psalm-tune on his pipes
while all the singers marching in his train unite
their voices in soul-stirring harmony.”
Sydney maidens, no doubt, are now basking in
the gla-nces flashed from alien orbs which lately
warmed the cockles of trusting Melbourne busts.
Xhe fiasana officers spoke English deplorably,
but they progressed like houses on fire in Melb.
ball-rooms. One of them left here an engaged
man, and others are said to have plighted their
troth secretly, preparatory to breaking the news
to der alte mensch which is, I believe. German
for “the old man.”
During their stay, linguists derived enjoyment
from casually-overheard scraps of the conversa-
tions carried on by pur visitors and their partners,
though few of either nationality had any clear
idea of the other s language, they were equally
bold in coming or guessing at words, sometimes
chancing on remarks which made a listener’s hair
stand on end. Like Spettigrew, in “Charley’s
Aunt, they said awful things.
Especially was this the case, I believe, among
the romantic scenery of Healesville, where the
Austrians and a large party of local celebrities
spent a day at the invitation of Fitz-Gibbon the
Great. The able-bodied tars didn’t seem to have
such a good time in Melb. as their officers. At
the Fasaua “at home,” the big men dancing with
the small ones looked as if they found their
partners poor substitutes for the real thing.
All this week Melb, streets have been as well
furnished with bishops as Mark Twain’s ship (in
“Thelnnocents Abroad ”) was with captains. It’s
hard to say which of the dignitaries carries off the
palm for looks, but I believe the head of the
Melb. diocese, although not exactly a beauty, is
the most benevolent of the lot. . Mrs. Goe, at the
recent Ordination show, was the same inoffensive
old body as ever, with her hair skewered up
according to the familiar three-hairpin trick.
Dr. Chalmers preached the ceremonial sermon,
his small, shapely hands evoking much feminine
admiration. Balloon sleeves, when worn by
women, certainly diminish the apparent size of
the waist, but it never struck me before that they
are equally becoming to the hands. The preacher
drew a doleful picture of the new Bishop’s future
career, “Thousands of miles in the lonely bush,
with no companion but his thoughts,” &c., &c.
This might apply to the existence of back-block
parson or itinerant bush-missionary, but not to
that of a bishop, for there is always a squatter or
someone of that sort only too delighted to convoy
the sainted personage wherever he may wish to
go, and sometimes quite a cavalcade shares in the
honour of escorting him.
That marriage of the wealthy young Stawell
squatter to a well-known Melb. belle takes place
shortly; but, unfortunately, the happy man is
suffering from a return of his old complaint, bash-
fulness, and, much to the disappointment of all
concerned, refuses to be “ turned off ” in church.
A wedding of the most private description, and a
honeymoon conducted on lines of the strictest
secrecy, are, he declares, his only chances for
getting through the ordeal at all, and as the
ordeal is the main thing Juliet has sorrowfully
consented to meet his views.
The news of the prospective famine at Ooolgar-
die, or some other circumstance, has warned one
intending emigrant to be wise in time, and so the
artist who was going to open a pie-shop at the
new Eldorado has decided to betake himself
instead to his sunny fatherland. And yet one
would have thought that a famine would be most
favourable for the consumption of pies.
Madame Belle Cole, who is a member of the
Sorosis Club, Was “lionised ” by the Austral
Salon on Monday afternoon. By the way, Miss
Emily Spada, who is also an American, bears so
close a resemblance to Belle that many suppose
them to be sisters.
VAN M.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK.
Her Majesty's .. “The King of Crime.”-'
Lyceum “The Bauble Shop.”
Town Hall Belle Cole Concerta.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Prodigal Daughter, ’’
® uou ... “ Morals of Mayfair."
Theatre Royal “The Circus Queen.”
Alexandra. ‘‘During Her Majesty's
Pleasure.’’
H. A..Jones’s “Bauble Shop,” staged on
Saturday at Sydney Lyceum, is a powerful drama
which, in some respects, can even bear comparison
with the celebrated “Mrs. Tanqueray.” Jones’s
drama is a burning, blazing satire on the famous
Nonconformist Conscience, of which the dirty
Stead, and Antoinette Sterling, and others of
their kind are the exponents. Hitherto the world
has been swamped with plays wherein the heroine
is betrayed by the cold, sneeriul person in
evening-dress; the “Bauble Shop” is the only
one which this paper remembers in which the
evening-dress person comes to utter grief, and
remains there, principally because his intentions
were honourable—or, at least, as honourable as he
knew how to make them.
•* * ,
Titheradge, who takes the leading part, is
a British Prime Minister with an accidental and
mainly platonic affection for a pretty girl in a
wholesale toy-emporium. His affection is ridi-
culous chiefly because it is platonic ; being unable
to understand himself in his character as a simple,
pastoral kind of lover, he sneaks along in disguise at
dismal hours of the night, and takes weak tea
with the girl and her hiccupy parent, and feels
himself to be a mild, harmless, reformed ass as he
does it. But the baleful eye of the Nonconformist
Conscience is upon him, and one night that hoarse
gorgon stalks in and demands a feasible explana-
tion. There is no feasible explanation handy.
The frantic assurances of everybody concerned
that there is no semblance of guilt about the busi-
ness only elicit a yell of mockery, for the Noncon-
formist Conscience has been there itself and knows
better. The impression left just here is that the
Conscience was probably a gay dog in its younger
days. Next night, in the House, the crash comes,
when the Premier moves the second reading of the
Public Morals Bill, and an avenging Social Purist
replies by telling the story, and' then points him
out with a lean, denunciatory claw, and wants to
know if that is the sort of person to look after
public morals. This scene doesn’t come off
visibly ; the stage is deserted for a while, but the
hoots of the moral majority can be heard from the
back premises like an accusing voice. Then the
Premier falls and never gets up again. There is
no poetic justice in the story ; it ends very much
as it would in real life, and leaves the hero doubled
up beneath an avalanche of execration. Even
when he marries the cause of all this disaster
nobody is convinced of his innocence save himself,
and the principal snufflebuster only sneers a holy
sneer and wipes the dust off his large, flat feet,
and looks like Stead coming simultaneously out of
Sodom and Gomorrah.
* # *
Titheradge, as the Prime Minister, is an
unimpressive politician, but in other respects is so
good that there is little to complain of, Brough,
as the Nonconformist Conscience in the flesh, is a
triumph. He is hard, wooden, gritty, and ex-
pressionless of countenance, with the shaven lip,
and the obtrusive gaol door-mat round the chin,
and the massive frock-coat, which are the recog-
nised outward symbols of the hard - boiled
purity that lies within. Also he has that


DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHAT IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got for sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you ? Will you do your business at
/\ JTT H Q3XT Y JJORDERN’S ?
ANTHONY HOKDEKN’S ?
SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY ISI
BUY EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived in town.
ONLY ADDRESS ot the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS:
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
M AY MARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION)-
creakiness of the boots and that dull immo-
bility of face which go with the very best brands
of piety. A new man, Mr. Franklyne, is a beau-
tiful personage with large, yearning eyes and legs
that are a poem. Miss Grace Noble plays the
heroine in a pretty, pathetic, graceful fashion,
and Dot Bouoicaulb, who has nob much to do
except be an affectionate father to Titheradge,
(eaves at least one memorable saying behind him.
“ It isn’t immorality than ruins a man nowadays,”
wails this aged mentor, “ bub some damned foolish
thing which every man does and only one man is
found out in.” Which eminently truthful state-
ment is alone worth the gate-money.
** * *
George Bignold’s latest melodrama, “ A
King of Crime,” promises to have a long and
prosperous career. It is a robust production, and
there are many people in it who state mysteriously
that they musn’b be seen together; and many
devoted women who hang on desperately to doors
and declare that the minions of the law won’t pass
on any account whatever. Also, it contains a
villain of the most comprehensive description,
who wades through blood and brains and
battered remains, and vanishes through trap-
doors when the law descends upon him ; and a
lost will of the most unburnable character, which
is stolen over and over again, and bought and
sold and cast into fires, yet it turns up all right
for probate in the last act. Likewise, there is a
chaste and gorgeous denouement when the second
villain sits at midnight in a ballroom thinking
over his evil past, and the two bony hands of the
first villain steal out from a curtain behind him,
and strangle him in a cordial and heartfelt
fashion, and then bounce his earthly tenement
upon the floor. The two bony hands behind the
curtain are represented by Albert Marsh, returned
after four years’ absence, who makes about the
most versatile, picturesque, and whole-souled
homicide The Bulletin has seen for a long time.
Even his lightest murder is like the shadow of a
great rock in a thirsty land.
Miss Emma Chambers, who is several
degrees more plump than of yore, returns with
him, and fills a short skirt and two small shoes
most commendably; and Miss Watts-Phillips
represents an intensely pathetic blind woman
with even more than her usual ability. Her
Majesty’s, however, is badly in want of a new
comedian. Frank Harcourt has been promoted
to that billet, vice the departed Sweeney, but Mr.
Harcourt is humorous with violence, and his ten-
der roar is as light and elegant as an anchor,
while Mr. Sterling Whyte, as the assistant
humorist, is about as joyful as the news that a
near relative has died in great agony. If the
humour were altogether cut out of this drama
there would be nothing left to complain of.
** * #
Madame Belle Cole’s concert season begins
at Sydney Town Hall next Tuesday.
** * *
That good old slab of grief, the “ Land of
the Living,” filled a night or two at Sydney
Royal during the early part of the week, and con-
ducted itself much as usual. In other words, it
wasn’t more unusual than it usually is, and was a
little better than The Bulletin expected, whereas
this paoer expected that it would be worse than
it expected. Miss Alice Deorwyn was again the
least sombre feature of the show, and the co. was
further brightened by the addition of Miss May
Vivian, who helped the drama considerably on its
uneven way. The Holloway season ends to-
morrow (Friday) with one solitary performance of
Merritt’s ‘‘Broken Idol.”
** * *
Melbourne Bijou re-opened on Saturday.
Arthur Garner had got ready a pious fraud for the
interesting occasion. “The Morals of Mayfair,”
announced by the newspapers as a “popular latter-
day creation,” turns out to be “ The Turn of the
Tide,” by F. 0. Burnand, a play which agitated
England more than 20 years ago, and which was
often seenin Australia before Garner joined the late
triumvirate. Despite the unevenness of construc-
tion, “T. of theT.”isaclever, unconventional work.
Tragedian Bentley almost slaughters the interest
of the hero character. Sweet-voiced, gallant
Henry Neville made it very fascinating in days
of yore, when also Forbes Robertson, a bona-
fide landscape painter, acted the part of the artist
friend very differently to Hans Phillips. Then
the opening of “Turn of the Tide” was a poem ;
now it is uninteresting prose. Ryley, the romantic
poseur, in Bentley’s place, and young Roberts,
from the Royal, instead of spasmodic Phillips,
would entirely change the appearance of the first
act. In some respects the play has never been
better, if as well, acted. Harwood, Annie Taylor
and Miss Watt-Tanner are all placed to a nicety.
Manager Garner shows real feeling through his
hard, dry manner, and holds the audience without
appearing to turn a hair of his superabundant wig.
Miss Edith Blande is perfect in her task, and
Ethel Haydon looks the ingenue, without spoiling
the effect by trying to act beyond her powers.
“The Morals of—er—Playfair ” is prettily
mounted, and it may do good business if the mar-
ried women of Melbourne don’t conspire to call it
“ridiculous.” As a rule, the virtuous married
lady declines to encourage the idea of an Ethel
Haydon waiting to trip into her shoes.
** # *
At Melb. Princess’ the improvement in
Bland Holt’s steeplechase has won a fair triumph
for “The Prodigal Daughter,” The horses begin
to raise something that resembles a gal'op across
the stage, and a jockey, who formerly rolled from
his mount on to the dry boards, now precipitates
himself gingerly into the tank with striking
dramatic effect. Also, Sass’s resolution to wifi
the race or break his neck is expressed with
splendid audacity, and when he takes his call
before the curtain that polished actor pants like a
kitchen bellows, just as though he had been the
real rider of the camel that came in first. “ The
Prodigal Daughter ” seems certain to run over
Saturday.
** * #
“During Her Majesty’s Pleasure,” de-
scribed as an Anglo-West-Australian drama, was
s=t up at the Alexandra on Saturday. One Inigo
Tyrell is the author, and this rampageous bantling
of Inigo’s brain was said to be running loose for
the first time in Australia. Any scheme for
chaining-up the drama might as well include the
capture of the author himself, for he appears in
his own production as a felonious idiot, and his
insane habit of chuckling at the gallery is too
dreadful to dwell upon. “During Her Majesty’s
Pleasure ” includes convictism in both hemispheres,
a repudiated Hindoo wife, a blazing hulk, and a
Sister of Mercy, lively Dora Mostyn being the
emblem of holy spinsterhood. There is likewise
a black object, known as King Koro, the Silent
Watcher of a Gold-mine, who would be useful in
Ooolgardie at the present moment.
** * *
“ The Circus Queen ” has positively
decided to appear when the final fortnight of
Maggie Moore’s big season at the Royal com-
raences. “Struck Oil” concludes a seven weeks’
boom to-morrow (Friday), and everyone desirous
of getting a last look at E izibeth Stofel is
requested to grab the opportunity by its tail-tuft
and hang on.
** # *
Madame Belle Cole and her concert com-
pany appear, at the Town Hall to-night (Thurs-
day) for the sixth and last time. As a well-
balanced musical combination they have been
lavishly praised and well supported, but a con-
siderable conflict of opinion rages around each
individual member. The robust and well-trained
tenor is “off” in his high, forced notes, and sings
without much soul, whilst the dramatic soprano is
full of soul and artistic method, without having
any voice worth mentioning. The basso, a success
in some songs, is as dull as Sydney Deane, or a
village sexton, in others. The warmest admirers
of Belle Cole cannot seriously argue that her voice
is great, although it pleases them much, whereas
a good many other people will question whether
she has the best contralto quality of tone. But
taken as a company, and not forgetting the pretty
lady fiddler, they are a highly satisfactory enter-
tainment.
At Poverty Point.
Wallace Brownlow, Williamson and Musgrove’s new
man, will not officially turn up till June, appearing in
“Ma Mießosette" in Sydney. He alleges that Billy Elton
leaves England for Australia in a month.
Marshall Hall went for the Melbourne musical critics
again at his last concert in the rhapsody with which his
programmes are always burdened. He described them as
‘‘knights of the wet blanket.”
Miss Lalla Miranda, Victoria’s favourite soprano, whoso
farewell concert was such a success, leaves for England
per Ormuz. The Mayor of Melbourne holds a reception
in her honor, and she bears with her a citizens’ address
signed among others by the Premier ai d Chief Justice.
Everyone who has ever heard this charming little woman
sing will heartily wish her luck.
Mrs. Hargreaves isstarring “ Mrs. Tanqueray ” through
the English provinces. About her acting there is some
doubt, but she is bound to succeed, for the notorious Mrs.
Osborne stole her jewels.
Olga Nethersole told a London interviewer that she took
her own company with her to Australia. Not a word
about Cartwright, who, out here, figured as chief boss of
the show.
Qreville sent his sons to Scots College. One became a
doctor, the other, of course, an actor, like young Coppin.
A use for old suburban skating rinks has been found by
a Fitzroy (Melb.) tobacconist. He has organised a
juvenile minstrel co. which plays once a fortnight at each
rink, the admission-charge being “ a silver coin.” Writer
saw over 3000 people at one of these rink-shows a fort-
night back, and at 3d. all round that means £37 10s. for a
one-night show.
“Mrs. Tanqueray” has built Pinero a superb new
mansion.
“Aquarius ” Larmour, of Coogee, says that, under the
famous Georgian law with which he is threatened, he
could turn “ informer ” himself and make £5O apiece out
of nine Sydney newspapers that advertise his Sunday
concerts, and promises to make things lively, if prose-
cuted, for sellers of excursion-tickets, tram and railway
tickets, cheap pop, fruit and cigars.
Miss Harrie Ireland’s sunsetty hair, and Mrs. Holt’s
racing “rig” are the most picturesque things in “The
Prodigal Daughter.”
Melba, during her recent stay in New York, informed
Mr. W. A. Green that she expected to revisit Australia
“ towards the fall of 1895.” If Melba ever comes to Aus-
tralia, it will be only to see her people. She detests Aus-
tralia, and no wonder. Nobody predicted great things of
her here, and she more than once sang to a £5 house.
Tub Bulletin, writes a London correspondent, was
right in saying that J. F. Sheridan has more humour in
his little finger than the overrated Lonnen in his whole
body. This has been proved in “ Little Christopher
Columbus,” now worked up to an enormous success,
money being turned away at every performance. A big
part has been written up for the Widow O’Brien that was,
and his screw has been raised to £6O a week. He is the
life and soul of the show. May Yohe is also a great draw.
Melbournian; Madame Sibley’s disappearance reminds
me of being present at her show. A young man, as sub-
ject, got pins stuck into him, and all that. A gentleman
in the audience publicly explained he had seen the same
young man performing the same thing in Liverpool, Eng.
London Times on Miss Helen Rowe, daughter of Dr.
Rowe, of Melbourne : “ Miss Rowe is the possessor of one
of the most beautiful contralto voices that have recently
been heard in England ; it is admirably trained, and the
singer is evidently a true musician, and already an artiste
of high attainment.”
Dear Bulletin,— David Christie Murray’s deserted wife
isn’t the Melbourne girl, but his old original wife whom
he left behind when coming to Australia. She protests
against the Melb. mistress with her young son, while
Murray dramatically thanks Providence for sending him a
son in his old age.— Teiciiy,
At the London post-mortem on a “ professional swal-
lower," who used to eat chains, saucers and other solid
articles, a bullet, 30 corks and a string 18in. long were
found in his intestines. The corks were attached to a
leather band which had hooks at the ends, and there were
also 20 pieces of tin-foil in the intestines.
Bland Holt gave £6OO for the Australian rights of “ A
Woman’s Revenge” for seven years. He tried to get
“Charley’s Aunt,” but was outbid by Charles Arnold,
who bought it for Thornton at £I2CO.
No London theatrical m'ahager with any pretensions to
tone now keeps his theatre open during Holy Week.
Time was when Irving was the only one who observed this
pious custom. But actor-managers are big-wigs nowa-
days, and people look to them for good example.
The Pall Mall Gazbttb on actor George Alexander at
a recent theatrical gathering:—“ Debonnair, perfectly
dressed, perfectly groomed, with an exquisite touch of
grey in his hair, wearing a subtle collar of new design—
combining the art of the turndown with a dash of the
smart Westendishness of the upright—and expressing in
his general bearing the noble ideal of the high-class
Englishman of intellectuality tempered with manners.”
Alexander, who left the silk department of a London soft-
goods warehouse to join Irving’s company, has worked
his way into management through “sassiety.” Every
moment that he can snatch from the theatre and bed—
for no man can live Alexander’s life without a reasonable
amount of bed—is devoted to dolling himself up and
paying court to the “swells,” especially “swells” who
may have means and disposition to back up a theatrical
speculation. A clever, superficial, tactful man who has
no time for improving thought, and whose intellectuality
is quite subservient to his subtle collar. Also, a liberal
liquor and chicken provider for all pressmen who can
help to push him along.
The Wild Cat Column,
The 4511 i annual report of the A.M.P. Society is
another record of steady and continuous progress. The
new assurance for the y ar represents £2,869,997, and the
new premium income is over £96,000. The total death
and endowment claims for the year are 1589,000, and
these are more than met by the receipts from interest
alone (which amounts to nearly £659,000), without
trenching upon premium income 1 The funds have been
increased by £626,000, and now amount to a splendid
total of nearly £12,000 000, while the total income is
within a shade of £2,000,000 annually. The expenses have
been further reduced, till they now stand at only 9 per
cent, of the receipts - probably the lowest average in the
world. Over £160,000 has been set aside to provide for
depreciation and to increase the reserves, in view of a
possible reduction in the rate of interest; and even with
this deduction there remains a profit of £448,790 to be
divided among policy-holders. Altogether the A.M.P.’s
report is a pleasant thing to meet with in such times as
the present.
* * * ♦
The Argus refers to “the good impression
created by the satisfactory report of the Colonial Bank,”
whose deposit receipts are offered at about 13s. 6d. in the
£. The old, stupid system of representing each bank in
turn as a marvel of stability is being followed with dreary
persistence by Smellbourne’s press. If a bank were to
declare a heavy loss on the half-year, and own up to the
rottenness of its reconstructed assets, and generally
declare that ruin stared it in the face, the great news-
papers would congratulate their readers upon another
pleasing proof that things were on the mend. But this
eternal song of satisfaction falls on deaf ears. The great
newspapers lied too hard when the “ crisis ” was about.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
John Robb, insolvent, is indebted to the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia for an overdraft of £145,049,
and interest thereon —one of the little matters which
made it “ inadvisable ” to delay the great Commercial
reconstruction scheme in order that an inquest might be
held upon the assets. Another large “secured " creditor
of J. Robb is “ Commissioner of Savings Bank, Melbourne
—£73,131.”
* * ♦ ♦
People grow tired of hearing Judge Holroyd
(Vic.) call it the Feed-eral Bank, with a tremendous
accent on the Peed.
♦ ♦ * *
Some recent bank neb earnings on shareholders’
capital—2 per cent., 1 per cent, and 2 per cent, per ann.
vide balance-sheets.
» • • *
Clear deduction from recent bank balance-sheets
—the rate of interest on deposits must fall further. A
continuance of a 3 per cent, rate for six months would
quicken speculation and enterprise.
Tooth and Co., the great Sydney beer corpora-
tion, has made a profit of £40,914 for the half-year, and
pays a 7 per cent, div., besides adding £2600 to reserve,
and providing for depreciation. Whatever else goes
wrong in Sydney, beer is founded on a rock.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Mr. G. J. Waterhouse, the well-known Sydney
South Sea merchant, has gone to JNew Guinea with the
Sudest gold-reefs in his eye.
♦ * • •
Proprietary Assistant-manager Stewart, ap-
pointed from the Tharsis (Spain)- copper mine, of which
he was manager, is unknown to Manager Howell and
most of the Proprietary directors. Mr. Knox, who visited
Spain principally to find such a man, practically made
tne appointment. A i expectant Broken Hill managerial
clique is grievously disappointed.
* * * •
Broken Hill Extended crosscut, from the 1330
feet level, the biggest local prospecting work, struck the
lode in the adjacent Central at 263 ft. It is a hopeless
sulphide, which is no improvement on that in the bottom
of Campbell’s shaft, Block 10, equal to 300 ft. above. The
crosscut demonstrates merely that the Broken Hill lode
carries down 1400 ft.—a sorry return for the Extended,
Central, Block 10, and Government (prospecting! grant)
cash expended on it.
••• - •
Tilden’s (div.-paying) mine, N.S.W.—shares,
Is. Something “up” surely, or the working miners
would buy them —or get their friends to buy them.
* * * *
Cobar gold-mining looks better than at any
other period of its.history.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Baker’s Creek, 461 tons for 3620 z., a tremendous
slump ; the lowest crushing they have ever had. A few
more like this and what price the shares 7
♦ * • *
“ Tiger ” Inglis, M.L. A., and another man are
floating the Oremorne coal discovery in England. The
capital is £600,000 and the shareholders are guaranteed
3 percent, on their money while the mine is under develop-
ment. As the mine will yield nothing during the develop-
ment period, this means either that the shareholders are
to get their 3 per cent. div. out of their own capital, or
else that somebody promises to give £15,000 a year out of
his own pocket—the first issue of capital being £500,000.
• • * *
In Mount Lyell, Tasmania has the richest silver
and copper mine in Australia. It has long had the richest
tin-mine in Mount Bischoff, and some people in Sydney,
principally Israelites, think they now have discovered in
Tasmania the boss gold mine of the world. The exact
locality is kept dark; but the writer hears a subdued
whisper about soz. per ton all over the mountain, and
that £25,000 in £250 shares has been put up for develop-
ment, also that two-thirds are retained by the vendors.
Let us hope it is all true. The Jews have been plucky and
persistent gold-mine speculators, and their luck has been
simply horrid. The present scribe knows hundreds of
Hebrews who have piled it in the gold-specs., and he
doesn’t know of one, barring the late Lazarus, of Bendigo,
who ever struck it really rich, or cleared out a heavy
winner.
• • • ♦
Mr. Donovan, late town-clerk of Bendigo, a
straight man of much experience, says there are many
men at Coolgardie who would like to get back to Bendigo.
Then Heaven help Coolgardie !
• * * *
Debate re the goodness or badness of Murchison
goldfield proceeds vigorously in Adelaide papers. One
man writes from Cue to say it’s queer that anybody who
has a show is very anxious to sell it. Another pops up in
Adelaide to point out that prospects are excellent, as all
the leading reefs improve in size with depth ; and once
the railway starts wood will be plentiful, while there is
quite as much water as ever there was at the Barrier. No
doubt it is Westralia’s turn to boom just now, says some-
body else, but we mustn’t forget that there are shows just
as good in North Queensland, spoiling for want of traffic
facilities, and W.A. is a bigger country than N.Q. to cover
with railroads. On the whole, the honours of debate are
pretty easy.
« • * *
Coolgardie has raised the W.A. revenue for
April by 65 per cent., as compared with April, ’93.
Which is about the best Coolgardie item of the week, for
there were but six days’ provisions on the field at latest,
and no water worth mentioning. An exodus from the
field has begun, and the passenger-lists by steamers from
the East show a marked decrease. There is no definite
mining news of importance, and the mistake that
Providence made in not setting a self-filling 400-gallon
tank and a miraculous bag of flour alongside every rood
of auriferous country is the burden of all the intelligence
which a humpless camel with an inflamed stomach brings
irregularly from the scene of inaction.
♦ * * *
“ A very big boom without anything to justify
it ” is the verdict on Coolgardie of J. O Johnston, friend
of Wall, N.S. Wales M.P. Puff, puff, puff—all to get the
money from the East. Far more brought than the gold
got is worth—or will be worth for many a day. Carters
and camel-drivers making fortunes. Poor men starving.
Rich and poor without water. That sums up the opinions
of the ebb-tide now setting away from the rush.
* » * *
Mr. Johnson describes the country at Cool-
gardie as diorite, with large bodies of milk-white, barren-
looking stone, and says the rush will be the most disas-
trous that ever occurred in Australia. Nevertheless,
he believes much English capitaljwill be invested there.
Dr. Peters’ estimate of Mt. Lyell : 4,600.000
tom iron and copper pyrites; gross-value, £15,292,000,
with an estimated nett profit, if worked on his suggestion
scale, of £7,012,500.
• * * *
Since Dr. Peters made his lengthened and
critical examination, the 00. have sold 373 tons of rich
silver ami copper ore for over £60,000. It was carted to
the seaboard at £5 a ton, hence its millions of tons of
pyrites must remain untouched until a railway connects
mine and sea. It is believed a railway can be built (18
miles) for a little over £lOO,OOO.
*♦« • •
Wyalong is settling down to steady work ; and
now, for the first time, there is good promise for the
future. Last week one crushing of 12 tons was put
through for 480 z., though Another went only 15dwt. So
far, only surface stone has been dealt with. But the
Govt, geologist is pleased with indications at a depth.
Good reefs have been struck at 106 ft. and 100 ft.
• * * *
Gympie orushings for April were 7069 tons for
79460 z., paying £16,650 divs. E. Pope estimates this
month's yield at 12,0000 z., and £30,000 divs Last
month’s North Smithfleld return, 22480 z. from 523 tons,
is expected to be beaten ; also, the South Phoenix’s 177
tons for 807 oz, So Gympie hums mildly.
* * * *
Emerald mine, Yalgoo, W. A., has crashed since
Xmas 150 tons for 1800 oz., though it has had several
breakdowns with its mill. This property was missed by a
Sydney syndicate some months ago. It was not con-
sidered good enough at the price.
* * * *
The Randb output for Feb. ’94, reached
151,8700 z., an increase over the same month of ’93 of
58,6180 z. A huge boom is prognosticated for May and
June with a slump to follow.
« • • •
Waiki mine, Maoriland, from Jan. 14 to Deo.
23 last year, crushed 19,805 tons stone for a bullion value
of £61,199 10s. sd.—enabling the co. to pay off £9OOO debt
and distribute £22,500 divs., besides carrying forward a
big sum. This year pan-amalgamation is to be changed
for a Cassel cyanide. Plant equal to treating 2000 tons a
month.
• « * *
Mills’ United g.m. co., Charters Towers, has
paid £140,000 divs. in two years, though the stone has to
be hauled 1600 ft. and does not average an ounce per ton.
Thus, barring Mount Morgan, Mills’ is Australia’s biggest
tonnage and div. gold-mine. In March they broke and
crushed 5600 tons for 58000 z., which, considering that Mt.
Morgan is worked by open cuts, makes Mills’ the boss
mine of the continent for wojk.
• * * *
The writer met two men from Coolgardie the
other day. Both had left the same week, and while one
said there were many heaps of stone which would crush
2oz. to 50z., the other swore there was nothing outside
Bayley’s. Nothing definite and authoritative has yet
reached the East on this vexed question, and some of the
daily-paper representatives are too obviously viewing the
field through Browne-coloured glasses.
* * ♦ *
Queen Constance, Mareeba, Q., made a profit,
last year, of £4281. It never made a call on the original
owners, nor on the capital of the co. Few mines outside
Q. ever performed such a feat.
* • • ♦
Long Tunnel, Walballa, Vic., has produced
17 tons of gold, value £1,959,378. Tonnage, 396,744 ;
divs., £1,075,200.
* « * •
Randt Feb. output—lsl,B7ooz.; tons, 205,566;
stamps at work, 2185 ; average, 9} dwts. free gold, balance
tailings.
*** f *
The latest Vic, coal discovery is at Altona Bay,
where two bores, put down at a mile interval, each struck
a seventy-foot thick seam of brown coal. Altona Bay is a
God-forsaken waste of sand and wild “tomatoes” about
three miles beyond Williamstown, and was probably the
largest advertised of all the boom estates.
* * * *
Total value of minerals exported from Tasmania
during April was £68,561. Included were of
gold.
« ♦ * *
Volunteer Co. (Tas.): 212 tons quartz for 7120 z.
of gold. Div. (the twelfth) 9d.
• * • *
Mt. Lyell late yields : 16360 z. of silver and 27
per cent, copper per ton.
• • • *
A correspondent:—Balaclava Hill Co., Whroo
(Vic.), the mine from which a quarter of a million in gold
was taken (the mine which built Menzies’ hotel),..failedlo
float in Melbourne, despite its undeniable attractions.
Everyone is looking Coolgardie-wards just now—caught,
perhaps, by the glitter of the broken-glass on the horizon
and consequently missing the diamond at foot. The
£250,000 worth of gold was all got above 360 ft. and above
water level. Menzies Co. was only a syndicate tribute co.
of 20 shares, with a heavy percentage, and when Manager
Nicholas took charge had spent almost all its capital.
Nicholas stopped the calls, declared many divs., then
expended the reserve and recommended the tribute co.
to wind up, as it hadn’t enopgh money to look below
water level. Hence a mine, proved a great one to com-
paratively shallow sinkings, stands on the market with
itself and a lot of machinery and plant to back the pro-
spectors, and yet the share-list has closed empty.
« • • *
A London weekly quotes an Indian wild-cat
gold mine prospectus: —“ Try and realise what it actually
means—a country where gold has been got to the extent
of hundreds of millions by simply picking it up—a
country whose very history is virtually written in gold.
What may be expected when thoroughly experienced min-
ing engineers get to work in such a land ? Sanguine as
we are, we are absolutely afraid to look into the future,
the prospects are so startling, so gigantic.” It went off
with a bang, and so did the mine—£25,000 was subscribed
and the whole gold obtained might be carried at the end
of a watch-chain. Of course there were several lords on
the Board.
« • • «
The Bankers’ Institute of Melb. contemplates
forming a big club among the local clerks, and taking the
big building of the now defunct Y.M.C.A. It will he
something on the lines of the popular Melb. Democratic
Club, only, of course, severely “ respectable ’’ and Tory
to the backbone. Meanwhile, this Institute is running
a subsoription-Hst for the assistance of unemployed and
indigent “officers” of various pawn-shops fired out by
the schemes of reconstruction.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 23.)


TKe OldßlervdL
Wlusfcy
•f«*. lT g Horse
CELLAR
WH»'
DIRECT EROM OISTU-LERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MCUOff
aJatubjeb SCOTcm wait
Edinburgh
LIMWNSiEIDJ
ADE MU
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston Si Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
VITALITY RESTORED.
CLEMENTS TONIC
TO THE RESCUE.
“TIRED NATURE’S KIND RESTORER.”
BRINGS BACK THE HUE OF HEALTH
TO THE WEARY SYSTEM.
A positive cure for General Debility, Weakness,.
Lassitude, Headache, Diseased Liver and all
Diseases arising from an impoverished nervous
system.
Mr. J. Gilbert, Martindale-st., Wallsend, who
writes on February 2nd, 1893.—1 have much
pleasure in testifying to the merits and efficacy of
Clements Tonic. Having been afflicted with
languid and tired feelings, and having no desire to
do any work. Since taking Clements Tonic it has
given me new life and energy, and I consider it a
great builder-up of the system. As a result of my
experience I have much pleasure in recommending
it to all who are thus afflicted. —J. Gilbert, deputy
coal miner, Martindale-street, Wallsend,
New South Wales.
WATSON’S
DUNDEE ==- ~
WHISKY
—IS THE
BEST IN THE MARKET.
Personal Items.
Clara Parker is now living at Cranbourne
(Vie.) and is a regular attendant at the local
Anglican Church,
Thomas Bracken, once M.H.8., the
Maorihu d poet, has been appointed Reader of
Parliamentary Bills.
“ All my future works will be very
chaste,” says Zola. It is time. Nearly all the
social-purLy saints are bald.
Millionaire Burdekin, of Sydney, receives
on an average 50 letters a day requesting, and
some of them demanding, assistance.
There is much fuss about the “ colonial]' ’
Bishop of Grafton and Annidale. The fact is,
the appointment was too poor for an Englishman.
Carr-Boyd, the Grecian-nosed explorer, is
prospecting round Coolgardie with a camel-party
of four, one of whom is Graham Berry’s youngest
son.
A shocking accident happened last week
in Sydney. A certain M.P. had travelled “on
the nod ” so long and so far that at last his head
fell off.
Ex-brewer Edwin Thos. Smith has pre-
sented a bronze statue of Her Gracious to Ade-
laide (S.A.). Beer ought to have stopped short at
a bust.
Ex-Justice Manning, N.S. Wales M.L.C.,
says that for the past 56 years he never but once
replied to any press criticism or newspaper repre-
sentation.
Maori Rewi’s “ hospitable tomb” for him-
self and Hori Grey was set up a fortnight ago, a
nephew of Grey’s representing the latter at the
ceremony.
Last week Parkes completed his 40th year
as a N.S.W. legislator. Moses Parkes, who has
led the Children of Botany Bay for 40 years in the
wilderness.
In her speech at the opening ceremony of
Sydney Women’s College, last Saturday, Prin-
cipal Miss Macdonald, M.A., styled Dame Duff
“ her Excellency.”
“ How ugly is mankind ! ” quotes a Mel-
bourne ’lady journalist looking round upon the
gathering of parsons in Melb. Cathedral at the
consecration of Bishop Green.
The most amusing feature of the recent
consecration show at Melb. was the sight of six
well-fed bishops struggling to get their six
episcopal hands on to Dr. Green’s 12 square inches
of pate.
J edge Tliginbotham used to say that the
logical faculty was little else than a keen sense of
the fitness of things. By this standard the homi-
letic Madden’s “spikes” are keener than his
intellect.,
Mr. Percy (or Pursey) Chirnside, of
Werribee Park, intends seeking election for
Grant (Vic.), in the Thrift interest. Percy has a
great stake in the country, and the country has a
great mistake in Percy.
What a mis-
fortune for a
young man to be
made a bishop, as
with him of Graf-
ton-and Annidale!
For the elder, it is
a cosy haven—he
can say “ after me
Lie deluge.” A
young bishop
binds his mind in
clamps of iron.
Bishop Green lias
40 clergy. His
opinions must be
the quotient out
of their own total,
divided by 40. He
must make up
something like
that composite
face, by the photo-
grapher, from all
the members of
the Rosebery
Cabinet. The in-
stinct of a mind
is to expand. His
musn’t. The rank
and file clergyman
has much greater
privileges that
way, for he only
has to size up
one congregation.
The bishop has to
take a drachma
of Oolenso, an-
other of Liddon,
another of Pusey,
another of Maur-
ice, another o f
Saumarez Smith,
another of Mrs.
Partington. Green
is a clever man—
so much the inorO
may be his tor-
tures. See what
a Stanley reaches
—when not made
a bishop, and
what is the goal
of a once - free
Temple, as Bishop
of London !
Pastor J eiieris,
erst of Sydney,
to a stage-stricken
young man:
“Well, if you
must be an actor, become a vegetarian; that, at
least, will keep you out of the divorce-court.
The Bulletin hears that the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney will give to Mrs. M Kay,
wife of the murdered manager of the Barraba
(N.S.W.) branch, £lOO a year for life; also £lOO
a year towards supporting her children until they
are of age. Under the circumstances, a hand-
some provision.
One Sydney man lias a solid belief in the
might of the Law. He lately took his ne’er-do-
well brother to a solicitor, and, in consideration
of £lO, got him to sign a document agreeing not
to borrow any more money from him.
Dibbs’s contemptuous treatment of Henni-
ker Heaton, over the Canadian Conference affair,
extracted an original aphorism from Alfred Ben-
nett: “It is easier,” said the gifted Alfred, “to
forgive bad politics than bad manners.”
’Enniker ’Eaton’s application to represent
N.S.W. at the Ottawa Conference, “free, gratis,
and for nothing, and all out of his own pocket,”
shows what a gold-mine there is in the true art of
advertisement. Mugwumpery, thy name is hence-
forth Heatonism.
Archdeacon Maunsell, who died at Auck*
land (M.L.), the other day, has been over 50 year®
in Maoriland, and was the author of an excellen t
Maori grammar. Maunsell, Grey and Dr. Short*
land formed a trio whose knowledge of Polynesian
ethnology was unequalled.
Carington is termed—apotheosis of but-
lerishness !—“ an ideal Lord Chamberlain ” by a
London weekly. He walks backwards with con-
siderable ease, is a diligent student of the laws
and rules of precedence, parts his hair carefully,
and never smiles out of place.
Parkes, on the occasion of his recent
Federation speech at Parramatta, had stipulated
that there should be no demonstration. And
there wasn’t any. The old man walked down to a
Church-street pie-shop and had a scone and a cup
of tea, and then platitudmised.
It is printed that the heir-apparent to the
Duke of Buccleuch won a foot-race at Oxford
recently. That’s right! Every duke should
learn to run. He should also learn to climb
trees an'd dodge half-bricks, and go in for hard
practice in the art of living in caves.
Melbourne Argus has almost ceased to
comment upon the Speight v. Syme case. Its
love for plaintiff is said to have cooled. More-
over, the Age and Argus proprietaries have
shaken hands in private, and agreed to go no
further in a mutually-unprofitable business war.
As witness last Saturday’s issues of the two
papers.
One of Sydney’s wealthiest citizens found
in the street one day lately a wallet stuffed with
notes and coin. In handing it up to the police,
who had been apprised of the loss, it was remarked
that hundreds of hard-up people must have passed
it by without noticing it. Wealth replied :
“Money smells money; I knew I had a good
thing when within five yards of it.”
Shann, accountant of the Bank of Victoria,
Melb., is a humourist in his ponderous, right-
thinking, capitalistic way. The other day a
rather pious clerk came in with a complaint of
abusive language against a fellow employe. “He
called me a blanky fool,” said the aggrieved one
bitterly. But the man of cash didn’t enthuse;
he simply regarded the pile of letters from ruined
shareholders in front of him for a period of s.x
seconds’, and then, rising his head, he inquire 1
benignly : “ Well! Are you? ”
w
yil I
INFIRMITIES OF AGE.
KILTIME : “ Poor old Bill ! He’s too feeble to bold the glass to his lips.”
HOGAN ( ex-water-policeman ) : “Faith an’ it’s me that well remembers the day
when, if he had a glass in, it would take tin of us to hold him.”
Talmage, the American pulpit-drum
ecclesiastic, with a voice like a bull of Bashan
and a manner like unto that of a cash bookmaker,
leaves’Frisco for Australia, May 31. His repu-
tation as an advertising theologian is as extensive
as the cavern framed by his lips and teeth in spurts
of clamorous vociferation.
Ah Mouy is already a solicitor and barrister
in Victoria, and Purves, Q.C., will not need to
wait for Kong Sing, of Inverell, N.S, W., to hoyvl
him down. Ah Mouy is full-blooded, and son of
the Melb. boss Chinese who inherited 1 Kong
Meng’s position. His two sisters are
pretty girls, and nobody would guess their
Celestial origin without previous knowledge.
E. T. Smith, the S.A. ex-brewer, a candi-
date for the Legislative Council, told the electors
that “ he had no connection With the beer trade at
present.” Then it was pointed out that Smith.
CHAPTER AND VERSE.
“ I wait upon the Lord.”
had a mortgage of £100,600 at 5J per cent, over
certain brewery properties, and thus draws <£5500
a year directly from the beer trade. And it is
because of a calamity like this that Adelaideans
will soon have to gaze on a brass statue of Queen
Victoria,
Poor little Louis Beyers has failed. Holter-
mann, who was a waiter at the European Hotel in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, went to Hill End with
him as mate, and they made over .£70,090 each put
of their famous claim. Both got into Parliament.
It would almost have been better for the good-
natured, honest Beyers had he got into the debtors’
prison, for in politics he met men who “had”
him for thousands, leaving him stranded in his old
age.
Until 1894, Premier Kingston had vir-
tually never seen S. A. out of Adelaide, but during
the present recess he has much increased his
popularity by travelling to Oodnadatta, 700 miles
north, and Mount Gambier, 300 miles south of
Adelaide. , Apropos , there tis a photo, extant of
Kingston astride a camel, which absolutely refused
to get off its knees as long as the burly Premier
was on its back. Treasurer Holder, by the way,
is an expert camel-rider.
John Robb, the Melb. contractor, sets
down his bankruptcy liabilities at £681,505 ;
assets, £448,528 ; deficiency, £232,977. He esti-
mates that within two years prior to sequestration
he lost £532,163—by depreciation in freehold and
leasehold properties he lost £165,209, by deprecia-
tion in the value of shares in trading, tramway,
and other companies, £50,000. He lost £104,112
in connection with a sugar plantation, £101,002
in connection with Talawauta station, and £48,121
on bank-shares.
A London interviewer on Mr. Guy
Boothby, the “intrepid Australian explorer ”: —
A fine, well-built young fellow, with spirits almost
boyish in their quickness and merriment, it was difficult
to realise that only a few months before he had been
battling with death in some of its most hideous forms, in
the lonely wastes which lie hidden away in the centre of
a great and almost unexplored continent.
All the great (advertising) Australian explorers
you meet in London carry gloves, and not one of
the poor things has been long enough across a
horse to become bandy-legged.
There has lately been issued in Sydney a
woman’s paper, “run on American lines,” which
said, last week, that manager Wynne, of the
Daily Telegraph, was a brute, suffering from
swelled head, or words to that effect, and
described how he had frightened into a fainting-
fit a she-reporter attached to the staff of Woman,
who visited his office on a business mission. So
manager Wynne arose in his wrath and found the
woman who was at the back of thelibel, and the man
who was at the back of the woman, and personally
conducted them round to the D.T. premises, in
order that they might point out to him where in
the D.T. office aforesaid the alleged interview had
taken place. The result of the pointing-out being
vague and unsatisfactory, the doughty Wynne
diplomatically got rid of the lady and proceeded
to settle accounts with his reptile contem-
porary. . . . Then Wynne picked up his
friend and put him together again, and
hospitably said, “ Come and wash the blood off in
this basin!” and “Here’s the sponge!” and
“There’s the towel!” and shouted “always glad
to see you ! ” after him as he struck the steps.
The Swiss refuse to disclose their, milk-
condensing trick to S.A. Govt.
Some Coolgardie miners gave a tent-thief
a fright the other day by hanging him up to a tree
with a rope round his neck, and relenting at the
last moment. They didn’t mean business, but
when you’re the man in the noose you never know
what is meant, and your prayqrs are apt to be
sincere. Lynching is an exotic which never throve
in Australia; and if there ever has been a case in
which Judge Lynch really hung a man here, The
Bulletin wants to know about it.
Queensland Col.
Sec. Tozer gets rid of
many importunate ap-
plicants for employ-
ment by promoting
them to a wardershipi
in St. Helena prison,,
“where you will learn
discipline, sir; it is
no disgrace to be
there, for I have a son
of General Blank on
the island.” As a
wardership on St.
Helena, wherea hand-
ful of officials are
penned up with the
worst of criminals, is
a shade worse than
being a convicted pri-
soner, it is only stern
necessity that com pels
anyone to accept,.
‘ Mr. Francis
Adams,” remarks
Jerome K. Jerome,
in the latest number
of his weekly, To-
Dat, “ was a critic
of shrewd insight and
epigrammatic expres-
sion, but he could
never quite divest
himself of the cheap
ideas of his favourite
Sydney Bulletin,
the organ of colonial
vulgarity.” Thanks.
Yet the great English
humorist, Jerome,
copies without ac-
knowledgment in his
very last number but
one a page-column of
original Bulletin
verse. The Bulletin
is vulgar—worse still,
it is “ colonially ”
vulgar. But it is good
enough to steal from.
Jerome K. Jerome,
Esq., recalls the Too-
rak nabob in the
witness-box: “Was the woman a friend of
yours?” “Well, hardly a friend of mine, von
know—but I walked out with her at night now-
and then.” Mr. J.K.J. is particular about his
daylight acquaintances, but he goes arm-in-arm
with The Bulletin— at night.
London Spectator, it is cabled, anticipates
another Indian mutiny. Likely enough; once
the wretched natives screw their courage to the
striking-point. Macaulay said the little finger of
the old company was thicker than the loins of
Surajah Dowlah. Were he living now, he might
safely add that a hair of the Government is thicker
than the little finger of the company. Born in
treachery, nourished on tyranny, the English rule
in India is a monument of greed and official
despotism. The country is hopelessly insolvent;
and from a falling revenue and a debased silver
currency has to pay annually 18 millions in gold to
its English proprietors. The natives cannot call
their souls their own, and toil hopelessly for the
support of the governing classes. No wonder
if they should be ready to risk everything on a
bold stroke for freedom.
Among the latest developments of the
eternal Norton-Criek malicious-prosecution case
at Sydney was an attempt by the successful plain-
tiff, Norton, to secure Crick’s arrest, and a
lengthy argument thereon before the Full Court.
For Crick it was pleaded by barrister Wise that
an M.P. couldn’t be arrested while the House was
in session—if this wasn’t the law, then “all the
members might be arrested and legislation brought
to a standstill.” Some people might think that
the sort of legislation likely to proceed from a
Parliament whose members were all in urgent
danger of arrest would be much better brought to
a standstill than otherwise. In fact, Mr. Wise’s
argument ought to knock the privilege idea on
the head, for the theory that the law really pro-
poses to leave such a Parliament at large and to
let it go on legislating is so dreadful as to be next
door to an impossibility.


■ -
mm
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Od.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
R
PHOTOGRAPHY!
“ Gin a body meet a body cornin’ down the street;
Gin a body snap a body, need a body see’t.
Every laddie has a faddie, why then shouldn’t I?
To snap a face in public place, “A Caineret” I’ll buy.”
Price 355.
YOU PRESS THE BUTTON-WE DO THE REST.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues to
BAKER & BOUSE,
375 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
260 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
69 RUNDLE STREET.... ...ADELAIDE
—AND—
-46 ■ QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
, FLETCHER’S PILLS
never fail to cure
INDIGESTION,
COSTIVENESS,
SOUR BREATH,
HEARTBURN, \
LIVKR DISEASE, and
KIDNEY COMPLAINTS,
FLETCHER’S PILLS and CLEMENTS
TONIC are the recognised household, remedies
of the Australian colonies, and every designing
quack tries to trade on their reputation and
renown. This is the greatest proof of their merit,
and sufferers want to be particular to get the
genuine articles as regret and disappointment are
sure to follow the use of the thousands of “ All-
failing ” remedies so freely advertised. The
reputation and wide-spread use of Clements Tonic
and Fletcher’s Pills are the greatest proofs of their
appreciation by the public. If they were not as
represented they would have passed out of memory
long ere this ; but instead their sale is greater and
they are more esteemed day by day, and week by
week, and this emphatically proves their undisputed
supremacy. Listen to no argument from interested
parties ; demand the genuine articles and TAKE
NO SUBSTITUTE. ;
CHEAP BUILDING BLOCKS
Close to the City of Sydney.
£2O each Grand Blocks at CARLTON. 8 miles from
Sydney, 40 x 132. Gas and City Water. Asphalt
paths. Easy terms. 14s. per Month.
£8 each Marine Villa Sites, MANLY BEACH. 10s.
Deposit and ss. per Month; no interest. Free
Deeds included in the £B.
£5 each Capital Residential Blocks, ROOTY HILL.
10s. Deposit ; ss. per Month ; no interest. Free
Deeds; Torrens.
£,lO for Blocks 50 x 150 at MERRYLANDS. £3l
for Land 89 x 396; cost £65. GUILDFORD
Cheap Lots £5 each ; ss. Deposit; ss. Monthly.
£25 for Land 82 x 190, next Clyde Railway Sheds;
£1 Deposit; 10s. Monthly.
If you want to make Money, buy now. Land will never
be Cheaper. Plans sent anywhere ; Post Free. Apply—
E. C. V. BItOIIC HTOX, Auctioneer,
301 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Established 1878.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Prudhomme paraphrased: “ The people of
Australia are free only during general elections.”
The Sydney Land-owners’ Defence League
is “not identified with any political party.” Isn’t
Property a political party ?
The trend of political events indicates
Alfred Deakin as the next Victorian Premier —•
and there will be a new one soon.
N.S.W. Minister for Works has applica-
tions for the expenditure of public money amount-
ing to £25,000,000. Milk the Government!
Labour-leader Cook : “ The Labour mem-
bers have not got such swelled heads that they
are too big for their boots.” Conundrum : Find
Joseph Cook’s brains.
Alfred Deakin’s utterance at Melbourne
last week, emphasising the necessity, first, of
governmental retrenchment, and then of direct
taxation of wealth, particularly unimproved land-
values, marks the trend of current democratic
politics in Australia.
Alfred Deakin : “ Why should 95 mem-
bers of Parliament be required to transact the
business of a million people?” The question
applies to all divisions of the country. Australia
wants fewer politicians and more eyes upon the
doings of each of them.
One election organiser is already nomi-
nated for selection as a parliamentary candidate
for six N.S.W country leagues, and is intriguing
for nomination by a city league. One man one
vote, also one man one Parliament, likewise one
man one colossal cheek.
“ The accursed system under which the
party on this side of the House are always striving
to murder the reputations of the party on the other
side, in order to leap over the dead bodies of their
reputations on to the seats in the Treasury bench.”
—George Higinbotham.
For one Australian-born there are ten out-
siders aspiring for Labour Electoral League nomi-
nation for N.S.W. Parliament. The greatest
disqualification for participation in Australian
affairs, political or municipal, is to be “native
here and to the manner born.”
“ It is my great hope yet to be able to
serve the people of Queensland,’ said Liliey at
Gympie, the other day. The old man, who has
an uncommon v good conceit of himself, will never
be satisfied till he gets even with MTI wraith for
that slap in the face at North Brisbane election.
A Melb. paper writes that the “ unweary-
ing vigilance” of Ebenezer J. Thomas, late
private secretary to the Vic. Premier, prevented
the French from taking the New Hebrides. A
forcible reminder of Sydney Smith’s apothecary,
who sat up whole nights, watching over the
British constitution.
Young Harry Armytage, the squattophile.
member for Grant (Vic.), will not seek re-election,
and both a Chirnside and a Mogg have entered
the lists, thus giving a possible chance for a demo-
cratic candidate.: Armytage is a clever young
fellow, fepPiit by’ environment and interest, for the
natural colour of the man shows up through his
gilded robes in many ways.
Latest news from Samoa shows the' bless-
ings that follow in the wake of rum and
Christianity. Ex-king Mataafa and 13 chiefs are
in exile ;27 more chiefs are starving in gaol; and
the rank-and file of “rebels” have to pay £4OOO
iti fines out of their wretched profits from copra
and cocoanuts. The so-called “ Government ”
has no money, and one set of gaolers, receiving
no wages for nine months, walked off with the
prisoners.
HOSPITAL SATURDAY.-ANOTHER INSULT
TO THE UNEMPLOYED.
“Please give me a penny !”
The Argus quotes, with approval, the
opinion of The Times that the Welsh Disestab-
lishment Bill is “a gigantic bribe to the rate-
payers, and means the spoliation of the Church.”
The retention of theUhurch as an establishment
is a bribe to the classes and a spoliation of the
people. It is comforting to know that the people
are offered such bribes now and again.
How grievous is the burden of Ministerial
duties may be gathered from the fact that Hon.
A. H. Wilson (Q.) is at present managing live
departments, inasmuch as he is Postmaster-
General, Minister for Education, Minister for
Mines, Minister for Works, and Minister for
Railways. Either Wilson is a man of magnificent
industry and abilities, or Ministerial duties
are
Finding that refusal of permission to
establish a distillery at Mildura simply means its
establishment in N.S. W. on the other side of the
border, the Vic. Government are climbing down,
and a licence will probably be granted. Chaffey
Bros, are themselves the applicants. Mildura, as
a teetotal settlement, is a dead failure; and the
success of its sly-grog-shops should point a moral
for all but the most bigoted of un-Ohristian
intemperate fanatics.
The iniquity of Southern legislation in
Queensland is nowhere more apparent than in the
Railway Department. Mt. Perry, a dead-and-
buried Oopperopolis, is connected with its port,
.1 hindaberg, by a most expensive railway. The
Etheridge goldfield, which has produced about
million pounds' worth of gold, a fairly busy centre,
is entirely dependent on horse-team traffic.
“Strange,” say the Southern journals, “the
North is always grumbling.”
One William Shipway, who proposes to
stand for Paddington (N.S. W.), is announced as
“ a well-known solicitor and formerly a member
of the Soudan Contingent.” This ought to
doubly blast the chances of any candidate, unless
the fact that Shipway was foolish enough to go
t > the Soudan is intended to show that he wasn’t
then raking in ,£2r,00i) a year as a solicitor, and
the fact that he is a solicitor is held to prove
that he was no good in the Soudan.
The rise and fall of the N.S. W. Labour
member :—
Debating-class —
Selection.
A stump (Domain)—
Election.
Macquarie-streat—
Dejection.
The Labour League—
Ejection. Misoa.
A little while back the “ white-headed
b >y ” of a small N.S. W. Government office became
afflicted with what Theodore Hook called “a
weakness in the chest.” His chief had been
warned of the possibilities of such an eventuality,
but yet the trouserings were long undetected.
i)
M?oor shoe}'
W before
Pjjcn j rp) edro° rr? door g
Ip J)n^rp3
Bjopdly ye
a\'G
f§\ (2.)
'A&ut l)°pt
j 0) tbs
f fatiCoZy
) Wf)S.i9
ffj'Crr) b(L
< i ■ 'f( l
Then came the usual exposure, followed swiftly
by influence and favouritism, whilst denomina-
tional friends filled the breach with shekels.
Barring the order of the sack the young gentleman
took his hook rejoicing, and now there are more
disclosures. The case parallels that of a certain
politically-well-connected gentleman who, after
embezzling the dog-taxes, was allowed to depart
in peace.
“ The Government views every-
thing through a glass brightly.”—Deakin.
They all do it. Even Deakin—when in
office. The Ins do So, and the Outs
ea.y so.
Some of the evidences of what the
Sydney Telegraph calls “ the great Free-
trade awakening” in Victoria, as ex-
pounded before the Tariff Commission,
were interesting reading. One person,
who had been converted by Max Hirsch’s
lectures, announced : “T am totally op-
posed to Protection, because it makes the
articles I use very dear.” On inquiry, it
appeared the articles in question were
“bags and sacks,” and when the court
pointed out that bags and sacks came in
free, and that it must be Freetrade which
kept up the prices, the witness collapsed.
Another witness said that the only thing
he complained of was the iniquitous duty
on cotton hosiery, and when he learned
that it was also on the free list he fell
back likewise. A third person was against
Protection because it ran up the price of
reapers and binders, and was a wddly-
a i onished witness when he heard that
t,i re was no duty on reapers and binders,
and that the prices were kept up by a ring
of Freetrade importers. These incidents
were mostly dropped out of sight by the
Telegraph, as they looked bad for the
“great Freetrade awakening.”
Labouchere, on the father-on-bench-son-
at-bar system:—“Believing that judges are human,
I believe that these relationships must produce
bias and lead to injustice ; but whether they do or
not, there can be no doubt that they discredit
justice.”
An Australian publisher con-
fesses to have had submitted to him,
since January last, 18 manuscripts,
running from 10,000 to 100,000 words,
dealing with the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Labour-party, and some of
them professing to include secret
letters and documents between
members and certain of their sup-
porters.
S.A. Legislative Council elec-
tions for four districts take place this
Saturday (12th). They will be mainly
fought on the question of direct
land-values taxation, as a victory for
the democratic forces, which wou’d
give them a majority in the To,/y
chamber, is much feared by the Ass.
Three district Labour candidates are
being run, and two will almost cer-
tainly get in. Birks, one of the
chosen in the central district, is a
single taxer and will probably, for
that reason, be left out, altho’Adams,
the other Labour candidate, will
nearly head the poll. Several Ass
politicians may become extinct.
Tomkinson, champion of Tories, and
ex-Minister Copley, both the chosen
of the Ass, will probably have a
hard fight. Two other Ass mem-
bers have wisely retired, as defeat
at the hands of the disgusted
workers who elected them was in-
evitable. One excellent feature of the
present contests is the way in which
wealthy candidates have to limit
their expenses in accordance with
the Electoral Expenses Act of ’93,
Glassey will nob have a walk-over fo r
Burke (N.Q.) electorate, on Hoolan’s resignation.
Lissner, ex-Minister for Mines, who lost his seat
at last Charters Towers election, is one opponent;
and Billy Little, ex-any thing you like, is another, on
the ground that he was formerly the best 12st.
man on the Barcoo. Many Etheridge people by no
means relish the idea of making a pocket-borough
for a Southern man j and Labour would have a
much better chance if a good local man could be
found.
Presumably the Melb. May-Day celebra-
tors were refused permission to march in proces-
sion through the streets because they wanted to
do it on a Sunday. The alternative, of course, is
to march on a week-day, anger employers, and
lose wages. Why rational people with good gray
matter in their skulls should cramp their liberties
to the measure of the Sunday fetish The Bulle-
tin fails to see. If it is reasonable and proper to
“procesh” at all, it is just as reasonable on Sun-
day as on any other day.
The N.S.W. Crown appeals now to the
Full Court in almost every case in which a jury
bring in a verdict carrying damages against it.
The Chief Justice, in rejecting the appeal of the
P.M.G. from a decision of a jury-court, which
decreed one Carlaw ,£l5OO for personal injuries
inflicted by a mail-cart, said there was no ground
whatever to sustain an appeal. Yet, in this ease,
the Crown had fea’d Pilcher, Q C., 0. B. Stephen,
Garland and others to fight the appeal. The
grievance is that the country pays for these
tyrannous experiments.
A considerable majority of the Rosebery
Ministry is said to favour a compulsory eight-
hours system in mining labour. John Motley,
Chief Sec. for Ireland, figures as leading spokes-
man for the minority. Among private members
who declare that an eight-hours working day will
prove a “ death-blow ” to English industries is the
alleged Radical member for the coal-division of
Northumberland. If colliers will vote for members
of the mine-owning interest they must expect to
be sold by their representative whenever their own
interests are immediately concerned. However,
the Bill seems to be as good as through the Com-
mons, and the Peers will assuredly cast.it forth in
disgust. After which —what? Socialistic legisla-
tion has commenced, and the fate of the House of
Lords is fast coming to a crisis,
Mildura (Vic.), the Chaffey teetotal irri-
gation settlement, is appealing to be allowed to
erect a distillery. One of the Chatfeys promises
MADAME LUCIEN HENRY.
the Government that, though Mildura may make
brandy, it will not drink it. Chaffey must be a
s.ingmni promisor of impossibilities. Further,
the humour of a “teetotal settlement” manufac-
turing the abhorred thing, in order to poison off
foreign parts, does not seem to have entered
into the money-making mind. By all means,
let Mildura have its distillery. Likewise
a brewery —“ merely for export.” Many peaceful
Kerristians export arms to the poor heathen;
many lanky teetotallers send rum to savages over
the seas. What a world it is !
An interesting sequel to Premier Patter-
son’s row with the Age as to his remarks on the
fiscal policy at Williamstown has just transpired.
Patterson averred that he condemned Prohibition,
and the Argus backed him up, but the Age in-
sisted that “Protection ” was the word used. It
happened that a short-hand writer of the Works
Department was at the meeting in his private
capacity and stenographed the speech. A copy of
his transcription was forwarded to the meat-man,
whose joy knew no bounds on finding that it cor-
responded with his own version. And now, by
the grace of God, that astute youth has been pro-
moted to the position of shorthand-writer and
private secretary to the Premier.
Sydney Trades and Labour Council (repre-
senting chiefly metropolitan labour unions) has
resolved to disband and re-form as a district
council under the Australasian Federation of
Labour, according to the scheme adopted at Bal-
larat 1891 congress. Only one union directly
opposed the change, though several held aloo .
The debate went to show that the “old unionism ”
which considers unions merely as wage-raising
and trade-improving agencies, has still a con-
siderable following among the older workmen,
who dread the active political effort which is the
“new unionism’s” leading feature. But the
great weight of opinion held that labour must
adapt itself to the new conditions if it ever hopes
to enforce its wishes.
Heaven—Everlasting “beerand skittles.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
19 of this issue.
N.S.W., Premier Dibbs’ advice to the
business-man anxious -to enter politics may bring
to mind Sargent, a worthy schoolmaster, who
headed a recent important deputation to the Vie.
Minister of Education. Years ago, he was bitten
with an uncontrollable desire to immolate himself
on the shrine of his country. Despite his large
family, he resigned, got into Parliament, was dis-
illusionised amid the “knaves and fools,” and
counted himself lucky to begin again some rungs
down'the ladder.


“Women do funny things, and there is
no rule to regulate them.” .Thus
Chief Justice in the Divorce Court
Pi
| r\
<, J^fr^
>¥ '■> fL
v p Xv
X * > se
His Honor: Hon lona had you known
him before you married Dim T.
1 Wituosa: About a fortnight to apeak
.to. , .
You married him within a fortnight:
i—l did.
What induced you to marry him?—
Well, I often ask myself that.
ftSL&cinatf ’on .
Ay*-
/4^/
v
w *
* *
Mi
f
yf
ffo&king ~7<r
7au.£ •
| IKE Patterson said : f
al never find fault with the jokes of sup; f
| porters y indeed, I am afraid that I -enjoy ;
5 them too much jn these times, but \
pit does us all good to have a laugh now j
I and then. _ lam indebted to Mr. Deakin j
| for one thing—that is, anticipating some I
| of the nonsense that might otherwise take \
time of Parliament,. Xhauks, Mi
f
• - —J.Y •
y\ 0 l- i r Dj
ff§s\
Ae{ eaker in the Presbyterian Assem-
bly considers the Jews to be “a most
'thqughiful, musical and poetical people,
whipm God has kept separate from other
nations for some great purpose.”
\
[iv7
CoWit
I s onc,->
|MO MORE.
CRMP
S PO RT S
on ,
Sun days.'
■ ‘Aa commandant, I meat protest against
the members Of any council or sect what*
ever endeavouring to, force on other per-
suasions of men under my command their
ideas. cuatoflje, or beliefs.
/ A. B. TDU.OOH."
■ /tfr
MELBOURNE ITEMS.


I AM
blutd
i PASTE THIS INTO YOUR HAT. G
There is sure to be another Hospital
Saturday. “ A nod is as good as a wink,” <fco.
MILDURA TEETOTAL SETTLEMENT.
«After all, it appears, arrangements have
been, made with the N.S. Wales Government for
a license to distil in that province, just across the
river from Mildura. This will enable
residents of Mildura to have their
grapes made into brandy, which
will pay etcise-duty to N.S.W.
D
K'
ƒ
:v.
NEW MTLDT7RA SCHEME.
Explanations:—R, Murray River; N, New South
Wales side; V, Victoria side; I), Distillery ; G, Boatload of
grapes from Victoria to be made into brandy at distillery
(D) ; P.P., Pipes (made water-tight to keep the Murray out
of the brandy) acting as a syphon
from distillery (D) £o tank (T); P, Distributing Machinery;
C, Consumer; E, Excise Officer.
A PUtt WITH A PURPOSE.
' If the police would only learn to use their
feet, they wouldn’t require to carry arms.
A Sydney daily paper, that divides its interest
about equally ‘between astronomy and private bars, tells
its readers that “it is not generally known that at
present Venus may be distinctly seen in the daytime
by those who know where to seek for her.”
SIR GEORGE GREY.
AN AUDIENCE OP HER MAJESTY.
London, Tuesday, 1 p.m.— Sir George
Grey, this morning had an audience Of
Her Majesty the Queen.
Her Majesty would not permit Sir
George to kneel.
Her Most Awfully More Thah Gracious . “ And, George,
,cail me Vicky, do.”
APROPOS OF HOSPITAL SATURDAY.
Near-sighted Party (to snapshot fiend, who i*
out “ picking up characters ’’) : “ I beg your pardon;
fact is, I mistook you for a Hospital Saturday young
person !"
DIBBS AS THE PIED PIPER.
“As an extreme Protectionist Mr. Rose repu-
diated his allegiance to the present Government, and
advised Premier Dibbs to entitle his nest lecture
‘ Political Inconsistencies,’ and to appear on the plat-
form attired in a coat of many colours.”
In the above picture
may, be seen one rat
turning back just in
time.
Joking apart, they might really learn to utilise their heads
also. A bobby’s head might ba hardened by practising on a
piece of blue-metal suspended from the ceiling.
f
A GENERAL LOOK-ROUND.


WEST AUSTRALIA.
U'DETUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those who bought
Jt? Land in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
years hack, and fortunes are waiting :for those I who buy
now in PERTH (the capital city)and ALBANY, WEbl
AUSTRALIA.
GRAND VIKW ESTATE, PERTH.
Splendid Building Sites.
£XO Eacn. £ 1 Deposit; 10 - Monthly. No Interest.
PERTH CITY LOTS,
From £4O each. Very Cheap. Easy Terms.
ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Grand position. From £l5 each. Easy lerms.
Title guaranteed perfect No forfeiture if ill or out of
work. Send for plans and Government map, showing true
position of land.
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
Limited,
(Established Perth and Sydney, 1885),
800 Plll-st, SYDNEY. W. J. Douglas. Manager,
ƒ
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION .
THIS Zotion cures Swelling and Sandy Jilight,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the sight . By post, 3s. per Hottle.
Manufactured Solelyhy 11. A. ItO.'iE, Uliciuist,
531 GEOKQE ccIEEET, SYDNEY.
og
a
□D
CD
rnorningWb-
■Cmt
AdverfbemcnKMiVdcbscrs
*
/\gen^ s • drink only
WOI.FESSCHNAFPS
[?]Ociety
Gov. Duff is getting himself disliked. A
Richmond man, the other day, proposed a vote of
censure on him for refusing to open the Hawkes-
bury Agricultural Show; and added that he’d
never get the chance again. The time is coming
when a repentant vicegerent’s “Please may I open
your show ?” will be Contemptuously sniffed at by
every ploughman in the province.
# * *
The fair Mayor of Onehunga (Maoriland) states that in
her capacity of Justice of the Peace she refused to attend
in an affiliation case, from purely conscientious motives.
“She thinks that in such cases a right-minded woman is
inclined to be harder o.i her sex than men.”
Debate in N.S.
Wales Assembly re
the local policeman’s
pistol, showed the
hazy state of public
opinion on the sub-
ject. G. H. Reid
and others thought
police should be
armed at night, and
not by day. Why ?
In daylight they
■can at least see what
they are shooting
at; at night they
■cannot, and, what
is of more conse-
quence, even if the
■object to be fired at
is visible, it is im-
possible to take aim
•except in bright
moonlight. Any
shooting done at
night must be of
the wildest, and far
more dangerous to
the general public
than to anyone else.
An English poacher
going pheasant-
shooting at night
strikes a chalk-line
along his gun-barrel
to guide his eye to
the sight. If the
police are to carry
a more efficient
weapon than a
baton, let it be a
cutlass, with the
deadly point care-
fully blunted. The
edge makes an
ugly and terrifying
wound, but rarely
kills.
Melbournian: How horrible the fate of the
unhappy M'Dougall, engineer, who suicided the
other evening! Xhree mouths he, an honest,
sober man, had wearily sought work, and the
family had got down to a little bit of sago, on
which they had to exist all Sunday. Ihe joy-
bells of the churches mingling in his ears with the
cries of his hungry children, so he died. Another
text for Chief-Justice Madden, on the cowardice
of the broken breadwinner.
Yet the Rev. Alexander, comfortably, to
Melb. Presbytery : —“lt is at any rate satisfactory
to know that there is no risk of anyone starving
provided he is willing to work.” The Rev.
Alexander should re-fashion his cheerful opinion :
“It is satisfactory to know that no one need die
of starvation provided he is willing to hang him-
self.”
* # *
The question, who are to possess at hospital-
meetings the votes acquired by the .£l7OO raised
on Sydney Hospital Saturday, admits of length-
ened argument. The Herald takes the side of
the organisers and collectors, contending almost
in Ouida’s words that good actions require to be
manured with the hope of a little profit of some
kind ; but if this principle be accepted, and ,£1
collected procure an equal voting-power with .£1
subscribed, an occasion may arise on which the
government of public institutions may be con-
trolled by collectors alone.
* * #
Editor Bulletin, —During a recent N.S.
Wales Circuit sittings a septuagenarian juror, the
unfortunate possessorof a pronouncedly cancerous
lip, kissed the book with the utmost gusto. As
rational beings, cannot our civilisation devise a
more cleanly and at the same time equally binding
method of taking (sic) “ the oath ?” I, for one,
object to touching pages slobbered over by every
cancerous and scrofulous subject whom the law
may decide to swear. I may add that the Sheriff,
on the matter being brought to his notice, caused
the book to be destroyed.— Juror, April 28, ’94.
# # •
Melb. Social Purity Society proposes that
“no candidates for Parliament who, within
recent dates, have proved their incapacity by
becoming guilty of intoxication shall receive the
votes of right-thinking persons.” Hum :
Good logic too : right-thi iking persons these
Who damn the men who can’t absorb, with ease,
A quart of snake-juice.
# # *
Dr. Maloney, M.P., Vie., is superinten-
dent of a Melb. medical club which supplies
physio and advice for2s. 6d. Marriages, wedding-
ring included, are also provided for ss. in Mel-
bourne; and music-lessons are advertised- in the
Age at the rate of two a shilling !
# * *
The cabletnan wires from London at great
expense that doubts are entertained re the sanity
of an English parson, one Tollemache, who stops
occasionally in the midst of the service to blow a
policeman’s whistle. How Tollemache’s insanity
affects Australia doesn’t appear. It is an awful
thing to have telegrams sent from the furthest end
of the earth to say that an utterly unknown sin-
shifter blows a policeman’s whistle.
# # *
A nice pink slice of ham placed between
two pieces of passover-cake makes the best of
sandwiches. This is mentioned with a view to
the further development of friendliness between
Jews and Gentiles.
* « • '
Dear Bulletin, —Of all mean men I think
the meanest is the man (perhaps it is a woman)
who regularly steals flowers and plants from the
graves in Waverley (Syd.) cemetery. Our tribute
to the dead we love is pitiful, foolish, if you will !
but if you knew the tears with which we water
the tiny clump of violets, or the rose-bush bought
by self-denial, you would understand the pang
with which we find thorn uprooted and stolen.
Even savages respect the graves of their enemies,
MIGHT OVERSHOOT THE MARK.
Wire (to dying husband) : “ I shall endeavour to lead a holier life, so that I
may meet you in the next world.”
Husband (briefly reviewing his past life) : “ Then if I were you I’d not be
too good.”
and scrupulously protect the slight ornaments
which are the hist witness of affection. Our lot,
alas! is cast in a happy Christian laud ; and we
are Mourners.
* * *
“Half-a-million Chinamen die every month
without God,” said a missionary in Victoria the
other day. In other words, according to the good
old missionary logic, six million Chinamen go to
sheol annually. The Chinese are a very, very old
nation, which seems to have started in the early
dawning of the first day, and, at the very lowest
estimate, this process has probably been going on
for 5000 years. This means that there are now
thirty thousand million Chinamen in sheol. and
they still keep coming at the rate of 500,000 a
month. There is an endless stream of Chinamen
pouring, like Niagara, down the sliddery slope
which leads to the final drop—an endless, cease-
less torrent of dead men with pigtails flying
behind them —a howling blast of yellow ghosts,
screaming in strange, angular characters, and
trying to brace their fleshless feet against nothing
to stop their descent. Perdition, in short, is a
place that is full of Chinamen, which lends a new
horror to the hereafter, and adds a new odour to
the bottomless halls of nights This is an im-
pressive view of the case, and one which has
not received the attention it deserves. The
material horrors of Gehenna have been worn
threadbare, but the fact that Gehenna, is full of
Chinamen lias not been impressed on tire public
Miss INEZ BENSUSAN.
mind as it ought to be. Yet, as an incentive to
piety, it should be of immense value; there-
fore The Bulletin suggests that this great truth
should be printed in huge gilt letters above every
pulpit, where all the congregation can see it. T hmk
of the impressiveness of it: “ Brethren, Hell is
full of Chinamen !”
# • *
Miss Inez Bensusan (daughter of the well-
known metallurgist of that name), whose portrait
appears in this number of The Bulletin, leaves
Australia, by the Ormuz, for two years
study for the stage at the Baris Conservatoire.
Her appearances in Sydney have been made
chiefly in connection with the University
Dramatic Society, whose dead level of mediocrity
has been considerably brightened by her charming
stage presence and intelligent vitality. # ohe is a
native of Sydney, and many friends will watch
her future career with m ceresu
* # •
A young man named Mathieson shot him-
self last week at Eaglehawk (Vic.), the presumable
reason being a difficulty about the furniture. His
marriage was fixed for a date just a week ahead,
and he was trying to borrow the money for the
tables and chairs. He didn’t get the money, and
finding that he and his wife would have to take
their meals on the floor, he went and perforated
himself with a gun, after scattering the wedding
presents around on the grass. This item could be
turned into a good “ad.” for some enterprising
time-payment furniture establishment.
* # »
Melbourne burglars carried away two
dozen cane-bottomed chairs out of a kirk, last
week. A “judgment” on luxury—a proper
reward for the heresy of abandoning the old back-
ache, keep-awake, Puritan pew. No “ fence
would purchase pews, even as firewood.
» # *
Rev. Geo. Walters, Sydney Unitarian
minister, writes about “ the ruin brought by
that cold-blooded piety which masquerades in the
garb of Christianity,” This is apropos of “ Mrs.
Tanqperay,” which the rev. gentleman decides to
contain “ a lesson of wisdom, charity, and virtue.”
The virtue, of course, is summed up in Ellean —
“ Saint Ellean,” the pious prude who is so shocked
at naughty mamma-in-law’s going’s-on. The
Bulletin is privately of opinion that of the two
Ellean would be far the worse to live with.
Ellean, the young woman with a call to grace,
wears a kill-joy countenance, looks at
light conversation, and obtrudes her “soul at
every possible opportunity. There are few tilings
more frightful than the female saint. Woman is
naturally a sinner, and the more she sins, within
due bounds, the better company she is.
* * •
Dear Bulletin, —Sappho Smith says the
naval officer isn’t what he was. It’s a case of
evolution. The “sea-dog” was damnable ; the
“sea-dude” is despicable; the transition animal
was the fine fellow whose decay S.S. deplores.—A.
• * *
Dear Bulletin, — On Hospital Saturday
night, in a Sydney shadowed way, one young
woman said, “ Ullo, dear, w’ere yah goin’ ? Come
’ere to me, dear ! ” Ten yards farther on another
young woman rattled a box on my chest, “ Oh, do
give me something, please.” Both used the same
weapons for a similar object. Each appealed to
my sex-instinct in the hope of securing my money.
Yet, in the eyes of society, one is vicious, the
other virtuous. Why?— Cholk.
* * •
Sydney police court. Plaintiff; “Yer
Worship, I want the case postponed until my
lawyer arrives.” Defendant; lawyer
ain’t here neither, yer Worship.” His Worship :
“ Who is your lawyer ? ” Plaintiff i ‘‘ Mr. Blank,
your Worship.” Defendant: “Yes, yer Worship,
he’s mine, too.” The lawyer had accepted fees
from both sides and did not appear for either.
# # *
A Melb. Hebrew bridegroom, who was
jilted on the morning of the wedding, a few years
back, did not blow his brains out. He simply
strolled around Collins-street, collected a couple
of dozen of his friends, and adjourned to the
Vienna Cafe, where much fizz was uncorked in
honour of his lucky escape.
Loudon Re-
feree, comment-
ing on the idiocy
of certain ‘■De-
mocratic” clubi tea
in taking turns to
drink wine out of
a woman’s shoe,
says boldly that
‘‘Between lovers ,
almost anything
is possible and
right.” Which
j lain, fleshly doc-
trine is preferable
to the sham hor-
ror with which
‘‘respectable”
persons denounce
esoteric indulg-
ences of passion
as “ unnatural.”
What is called
‘‘animalism” by
Mrs. Grundy’s.
husband seems to
have been the
natural teaching
of ardent affection
since civilisation
began, and it is
less animal and
more imaginative
than the ordinary
desire of dull
intellects. Kiss
ing is unnatural
in the eyes of
. the untutored
savage. The hard,
practical business
man regards pas-
sion as a definite
little matter of
business to be dis-
posed of with all
possible prompt-
ness and dispatch.
But the Byronic
development of
Love admits of
instincts that are
none the less
natural because
-jaded vice has
vulgarised them,
and degraded
them to the ser-
vice of cold-
blooded bestiality. The strange thing is to find
this simple fact recognised openly by a newspaper,
considering that the general purpose of the press
is to endorse the conventional lies of civilisation.
“ Between lovers, almost anything is possible and
right.” But true lovers, like dead men, tell no
tales.
* * *
The latest foolishness is a proposal, now
under way in Sydney, for the formation of an
“Association of Australians.” The objects of
this gathering are “to promote social feeling
among the members, and to improve them politi-
cally and intellectually,” and the persons eligible
for membership are “ Australia!?" natives, those
who have resided 10 years in the colonies,
those who came to the colonies before the
age of 14 years, and any who may be
admitted by a two-thirds majority of mem-
bers.” Therefore, the Association is prepared, in
a general way, to admit everybody. It is only the
Australian who makes such a complete and
perfect and comprehensive exhibition of himself
as this. Anywhere else a man who tried to get
up a society where the only qualification
for membership was that every person
must be himself and be born in his own
country, and where the only visible object was to
celebrate the fact that every member was himself
and had been born in the land that he belonged
to, would arouse a general howl of derision. But
the Australian takes such things seriously. He is
so profoundly astonished to find that he belongs
to his own country that he must organise himself
and celebrate the event, or burst. In most cases
it is a great pity that he doesn’t burst.
* * *
One sanguine parson writes, suggesting
that the A.N.A. should start a fund to augment
the salary of the recently-appointed Bishop of
Grafton, who happens to be native-born. The
A.N.A. has done several foolish things, but surely
it won't, in these days of hunger and misery, set
about cadging money for the possessor of a snug
income of .£550 per annum.
* * *
A Jolimont (Melb.) resident and land-
owner writes indignantly to the Argus about cer-
tain street women who accost him on his road,
and attempt to steal his honour. He proudly
signs his full name and address. What an adver-
tisement of virtue ! What a humorist!
THE RIGHT MINDED WOMAN.
The right-minded woman is harder than men
(Whose natures are coarser, it may be)
In judging unlicensed maternity when
It creeps into Court with the baby.
She dares at the “creature” caressing her “brat,”
Weak offspring of sentiment tender ;
The right-minded woman knows nothing of that —
It is not in her feminine gender.
“Temptation’s ” a word which she cannot allow
As a decent excuse for an error ;
The mention of “vice” brings a frown to her
brow —
O, the right-minded wife is a terror !
Don’t whisper the platitude, “Passion is blind,”
In fruitless endeavour to bend her ;
For Propriety rules her connubial mind,
And bosses her feminine gender.
And Virtue is not a “comparative term,”
On that she is very decided ;
All girls upon earth can be equally “ firm ”
Woe to whom woe hath betided !
She seldom went out in her warmer young days
Without dear mamma to attend her ;
She was painfully modest in manners and ways,
As befitted her feminine gender.
’Tis perfectly proper for virgins to wed
In a chapel, a church, or a minster ;
There Midas, who hasn’t a tooth in his head,
May purchase a shuddering spinster.
Her marriage was made in the regions above;
Though his lawful embraces offend her,
Her baby's a token of virtuous love
And a proof of her feminine gender.
Woman, as sung by the amorous bard,
Belongs to a mythic Arcady,
Where, suckled by Venus, she never is hard,
Except on “the right-minded lady.”
Instructed by Nature she sighs in the arms
Of Strephon, who lives to defend her,
And Love is the lord of those bountiful charms
That glorify feminine gender.


Send ONE and 3 PENCE in STAMPS
(OP ANY COLONY)
And PURCHASE (Post Free) any one of the following Useful Reference Books :
Profitable Poultry Book
The Self-Educator Book
Comic Recitations Book
Ready-made Speeches Book
How to Play Billiards
Colonists’ Guide to Health
How to Train—Running, etc.
The Popular Song Book
House Painting and Papering
Whist and Card Games
Athletics and Gymnastics
Familiar Quotations
Character in Faces and Features
Letter Writer’s Manual
Character in Handwriting
Handy Book on the Horse
Handy Carpentry Book
Manual of Book-keeping
Also, theJolloiving Australian Yarns, Detective Stories, etc.
Geoffrey Hainlyn (H. Kingsley)
Eulalie (VV. S. Hayward)
Lost for Gold (Katharine King)
Botany Bay (John Lang)
Assigned to His Wife (John Lang)
Gold Hunters’ Ad\enlures (Thomas)
A Study in Scarlet (A. C. Doyle)
The Sign of the Four ~
Light that Failed (R. Kipling)
The Right Sort (A. Kennardi
Out of Hurly-Burly (M. Adeler)
Elbow Room (M. Adeler)
Moitia (L. L. Lynch)
A Slender Clue (L. L. Lynch)
Crime of Xmas Toy (H. Herman)
Broken Bonds (Hawley Smart)
False Cards ~ „
Play or Pay „ „
WARD* LOCK & BOWDEM, Ltd. (and all Booksellers), Melbourne.
“ I was Dreaming ”
Is the title of a new song by Aug. W. Juncker. It
is suitable both for ladies’ and gentlemen’s voices.
The publisher, Mr. H. J. Samuell, intends giving
ten guineas in prizes for the best amateurs singing
it. Full particulars later on. It will be published
early in June. Waltzes come and waltzes go, but
the “Duchess of York ” waltz will be a ball-room
favourite for ever ! Ask AY. 11. Paling and- Co.
(Ltd.), Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane and Too-
woomba. Send Postal Order for Two Shillings.
H. J. Samuell, publisher, Box 1077, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
GAILY THE
TROUBADOUR.”
The troubadour has long since passed into history,
but his sweet guitar still lives in fact as well as in
memory.
We have just received about a Dozen of the famous
pANDANGO
Guitars.
They are remarkable for the purity and richness
of their tones, for their strength and for their low
price. A good one for 50s.—better ones up to HI 7s„
and every one guaranteed.
SPLENDID STOCK OF MUSIC
FOE
GUITAR OK MANDOLIN.
Call and Inspect our Magnificent Stock of
PIANOS AND GROANS!
The finest choice in the city, and the best for the
money. Most Liberal Terms—CASH or CREDIT.
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Another aspect of the “ thrift ” fetish. In
Melbourne sewing-shops scores of girls whose
parents are “well-to-do” work at nominal rates
for “pocket-money,” driving their poorer sisters,
who sew for a living, to slave for similar rates—or
starve. Many working girls club together, co-
operatively rent a large room to live in, and exist
on tea and bread and butter as the only alterna-
tive to the streets.
PHOTO. BV T. NOBLE] [BOURRK ST. EAST, MEL...
THE LATE J. R. GREVILLE, COMEDIAN.
Extract from the pocket-diary of a Sydney
professional man :
9.30 a.m.—Arrived at office.
9.35. Opened four letters containing bills.
9.36. —Hunt, to borrow two shillings.
10.5. A boy, selling collar-studs and boot-laces.
10.7. —A man to ask if A. Fraser occupied the office.
10.30. W , M.P.: “Could I cash a cheque for him.”
10.55. A man to read the gas-meter.
11.30. Franks’ boy, for change of half a sovereign.
11.35.—Cooper’s clerk, to borrow my dictionary.
12.5 p.m.—A boy selling sandwiches.
12.6. —Two ladies selling art-union tickets.
I.2o.—Keidy—had I a fiver to spare “ till Saturday."
2.50.—An advt. canvasser.
2.55. Fitzgerald’s collector for a cheque.
2.56. Sullivan’s collector, also for a cheque. (Mem.
No cheques.)
4.0. A Chinaman, with feather dusters.
4.25 —An agent of the Rescue Work Society.
4.30. Grant, for a loan of the evening paper, “if I had
it.”
4.4o,—Andrews, “You haven’t a spare bob or two,
have you, old chap ?”
5.5. The office-cleaner.
A foot-note was attached to the page—“A day’s
badness. Of such is the city of Hell.”
* * *
The Bulletin hears that there is a little
Monnon colony at Cape Hawke (N.S.W.).
« • . *
Early closing on Saturdays will soon be
abolished in Adelaide. The shopkeepers never
willingly swallowed it, and now urge that the
suburbs are taking trade which they lose by
closing early. The working man’s wife will shop
kite.
• * •
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) lately the police
arrested for drunkenness a respectable resident—
who died in the cell without medical aid. After
post-mortem a surgeon swore that death occurred
from apoplexy caused by the rupture of a large
bhiO l-vessel in the back of the brain ; there were
no tracts of alcohol. Which ghastly item needs no
comment.
« * *
The only insult offered to any lady col-
lector on Sydney’s Hospital Saturday was when
the pretty wife of an Elizabeth-street doctor
app -filed to a male beast for a donation, and was
told that if she wanted to cadge she should wear
trousers.
« • •
“I don’t see,” said a Cabinet Minister
the other day, “why the bodies of persons who
die fit sea between lure and Maoriland must be
thrown overboard while we can take mutton to
England.- I’ll give the thing attention one of
these days. ”
' # # *
Quote: ‘’Rich. Japanese send their chil-
dren to school in shabby garments in order not to
shame the children o the poor.” If the Aus-
tralian ricli caught on to this idea, they would
neod to send their children to school hungrv. too.
The women suffragists of Marrickville
(Sydney) are ungallantly described in the columns
of the, local paper as “ meatless bones.”
• * *
There are now two rival Chinese churches
in Little Bourke-street, Melb. Anglican and Wes-
leyan, both neat, expensive buildings.
* * *
At Melbourne, the other day, a mere ser-
vant, an uninteresting daughter of the lower
orders, aged 17, in a wretched dress, had the inso-
lence to plead kleptomania as an excuse for stealing
goods valued 9s. from her employer, “ I was
wicked and couldn’t help it,” she said. The police
asserted that the girl simply buried every thing she
stole, and seemed to forget all about it —but she
went to gaol all the same. Kleptomania, like
gout and papal indulgences, is the glorious privi-
lege of the well-to-do.
• # •
The girl-woman gang is disappearing from
Melbourne. Her parents have doubtless im-
pressed upon her the necessity of letting her skirts
down and tying her hair up to catch a husband
before it is too late.
• * #
At Bendigo, the other day, a man offered
a reward of 40s. for the recovery of a lost diamond,
valued at ,£45, and a few hours later a pie-man
called, and persuasively handed to him the missing
gem, and collected the reward. A little later on
it transpired that the supposed gem was a piece of
wiridow-glass from an earring found in a penny
prize packet, and the enraged owner is now sueing
the pie-man for the 40s. The name of the enraged
owner is Levy, which is the most astonishing
feature in the story. It isn’t one person in a
billion who can get 40s. from a person named Levy
for a piece of window-glass.
Dear Bulletin, Why not Eastralia,
Norstralia, Soustralia, Westralia and Cent rail a ?
Why not also Noreastralia, Norwestralia, &o. ?
Yours, Dipso. P.S.—Try ’em with a hiccough.
* « *
An old army-sergeant in an Australian
town sent the following letter, the other day, to
his ex-captain, concerning whose utter stony-
brokenness he had just heard : “ Dear Captain,—
I have got a billet as barman at the Thrumbar
Hotel. Come and drink the bar dry. I am on
from 10 to 7 mostly.—Yours,” &c. The Captain
and another deadbeat took a run round without
a thrum, walked jauntly in, and —a barmaid
popped up ! That incident is life epitomised.
» * *
Some refined person advertises in a Maori-
land paper for a “ pi op filer of horned cattle.”
* * *
If the churches in Australia don’t cease
importing their parsons, they will soon have to
start importing their congregations.
# # #
A Presbyterian clergyman was, with a
friend, arrested last Saturday in Sydney, for
stealing a carrier’s cart and horse. In tiiis wise.
They met outside a shop, while the vehicle was
alongside the kerb. The layman needed some
speedy service; the parson agreed—“ Yes, we’ll
go there at once, if you’ll drive.” On alighting
to enter a hotel—“ Will he stand?” quoth the
parson. “Stand? Aren’t 'they your horse and
trap?” “Mine? No. Aren’t they yours?”
“No; I thought it was your turn-out.” “I
thought it was yours.” Then there was a scurry
back, but the owner had them arrested cn route,
and the affair had to be untangled before solemn
and suspicious policemen.
# # *
At Cranbourne (Vic.), writes a corres-
pondent, the outside of the R.C. chapel is painted
orange and green —which striking combination
has a history. Years back the chapel needed a
coat of paint, and for the wherewithal the priest
vainly appealed to his congregation. His rever-
ence thereupon appealed to outsiders chiefly, and
a Presbyterian and Anglican contributed fully
two-thirds of the amount required. To recognise
their generosity, and at the same time expose his
niggardly flock, the priest ordered that the
heretics be represented in the paint by orange and
Catholics by green. And despite the protestations
of his people, who offered to pay the cost of paint-
ing out the objectionable colour, he refused to
allow it.
A saintly deputation, with a look of holy
horror in its eye, waited upon the Vic. acting-
Minister of Defence the other day, to snuffle about
the unrighteous conduct of the Vic. warriors on
Easter Sunday at the encampment. The local
Tommy Atkins, it appears, “whooped it up” on
the “ Board’s ” day, and went in for mixed drinks
and comic songs. “ Instead of mortifying their
flesh,” said smileless Balfour, “they forced the
young cadets in camp to witness the Sunday
turned into a day of revelry.” What a humourless
incubus is the respectable saint! The State,
celebrates the passing to Paradise of the Saviour,
whose mission was to spread peace and brotherly
love, by exercising its trained man-killers in the
work of cutting throats and blowing their brethren
into charred fragments, and the modern disciple,
with a red nose and a gouty toe, finds nothing to
wail about beyond the fact that the beastly common
soldiers sang “ Killaloe ” on the blessed “Saw-
buth.”
Mr. R. Innes, of 14 Castlereagh street,
Sydney, sends round a price-list of N.S.W. wines-
It is a beautiful list, and even the sight of it
raises a great, yearning thirst in the journalistic
soul. There are on it such items as “rich old
verdeilho,” at 245. a dozen ; madeira with a “nutty
flavour,” “superior old hock,” and “full-bodied
burgundy.” Also, there- is a profoundly soulful
item which reads “Frontignac, six years old,”
and which sounds like a dream of Paradise—
that kind of Paradise which comes along in a bottle
with the name on the cork as a guarantee against
imitations. These wines are better and purer than
the European product costing twice the money; they
are vastly cheaper because they haven’t paid import
duties half round the earth, and the charges of a
dozen middlemen. Also, they are prepared in a
civilised fashion, and don’t come from those wildly
poetic lands where the Ouida-esque native presses
the grapes with his feet.
Messrs. Stewart Dawson and Co., the
largest jewellery firrn in the Southern hemisphere,
issue an attractive catalogue, showing designs and
prices of a few among their innumerable articles of
trade. Stewart Dawson and Co. are themselves
the manufacturers, the w holesale dealers, importers
and retail salesmen, and, as they thus save all the
intermediate profits of the trade, they are able to
sell to the public at ordinary wholesale prices,
and yet supply goods of the very highest
quality. In addition to their headquarters in
Britain, they have large establishments in Sydney,
Melbourne and Auckland, and their stock in-
cludes everything even remotely connected with
the jewellery business. Their watches, in par-
ticular, have a world-wide reputation, and range
from a first-class timekeeper at 18s. 6d. up to the
most gorgeous and elaborate structure yet in-
vented. Gold watches are quoted as low as £5
10s., and the chronometer which is usually sold at
,£3O, is offered by them at £2O. All their goods,
in fact, are at 33 to 50 per cent, below ordinary
rates, the difference representingthesavingeffected
through dispensing with the obtrusive middleman.
The catalogue further embraces silver bracelets,
brooches, and bangles, gold ditto, either in plain
metal or set with all varieties of precious stones,
stars, crescents and miscellaneous ornaments, gem
rings, wedding, keeper and other rings, gold and
silver alberts, lockets and appendages, ladies’
chains, sleeve-links, studs, either of the ordinary
kind or with ingenious contrivances to counteract
the fiendish malevolence of the common or garden
stud which persists in flying off and concealing
itself behind the chest of drawers; pins, purses,
pencil-cases, medals, card-cases and sovereign-
cases, which latter are an elegant and beauti-
ful mockery at a time when everybody’s
sovereigns are reconstructed in some. bank
or other. And, in addition to all this,
there is a vast collection of clocks, silver-
plate, electro-plate, toilet-articles, tea and coffee
services, cruets, claret-jugs, spirit-stands, cups,
opera-glasses and the like. The firm is especially
strong in the matter of clocks, and turns out
beautiful articles in marble which are wonders of
elegance and cheapness. Also, a large collection
of unset precious stones is kept on hand for the
benefit of those who prefer to have jewellery made
upon their own designs. The firm’s Sydney
branch in George-street, at the corner of the
Strand, is in itself a sufficient evidence of the
lavish scale on which its operations are con-
ducted.
Dear Bulletin, —lie query about disabled
Chinamen : A wooden-legged Chow keeps a fruit-
shop at Fremantle, W.A. The chief reason why
he is rare in Australia is the old black-sheep
reason : there are not so many Chinamen to get
disabled. And, as a rule, when one is badly hurt,
he either kills himself, or his mates kill him, or
else they coddle him (they are generally very good
to their sick). In any case, he disappears from
public life. —Ben Jemmy.
Disinterested advice to parents. If your
son in his tender years evinces a desire to smoke,
and thus risks to stop short in his growth, it may
not al ways be wise to thrash him till he makes up.
his mind to knock off. In most cases an excellent,
remedy is an old pipe, made sour with long experi-
ence, and administered without pity but with very
strong tobacco. Above all things, avoid to let
him ever get a taste of a Frossard’s Swiss cigar,,
for then he will never, never give it up.
A GOOD STOVE.
A WORD OF CAUTION.
Everyone knows what a good stove is—at least,
the women do ; and every woman knows that, of
all the treasures of the household, a really first-
rate, reliable cooking-stove is the greatest desider-
atum in a house. A great many stoves are
advertised every year, many of which are like
jerry-built houses—thrown together to sell. A
word of caution is therefore necessary to intending
buyers, because there are few things so annoying
and vexatious as to buy a stove and then find that
it does not possess all the qualities that are neces-
sary to give complete and lasting satisfaction.
Now, the points in choosing a good stove are:—
1. Strong cast-iron frame.
2. Good draught.
3. Facilities to burn either wood, coal, or
even turf.
4. Simplicity of parts, and thus, easy to clean.
5. Duplicate parts kept in stock, so that
bxeakages can be replaced at small cost
and without delay.
And if, in addition to these five points, you can
get a stove that is also an ornament to the kitchen,
all the better.
Price, 6f course, is a point, but that is a matter
which need scarcely be mentioned, since, if the
.above points are combined in any stove, it would
be cheap at any price within reason.
It only remains for us to say that, with con-
fidence, we can honestly recommend “The
Housewife,” sold by Holdsworth, Macpherson
and Co., 250 George-street, Sydney, from ,£3 10s.
upwards, as one that fully and entirely “ fills the
bill.”
We should suggest our readers writing to this
firm for an illustrated catalogue, with further
particulars.
[?]
I rULr it
m --- >< ■■;■ ; c ;,,,'
!U eu n <Ui uuM*&*A "■*. r r '
</w *«J. <«;<«■ - *«* -*r' ft* ‘
T«- Iwjk. aj. HS* ** '
Mx*u 3 Jy\ j
tAr*. tk&rUVito ' i
, ' a-tu¥<- ‘ ’
'Jit. C^UxA^^X
f Tit* tLurp* *t** Va+J- : t ** rk ,
‘■yd U * '
[?]
A MS. PICKED UP ON SHARK ISLAND.
The Efficacy of Local Option.
The Local Optionists, of N.S.W. especially, are>
making elaborate preparations for securing a
larger legislative representation at the next
election, in order to bring Parliament to. the con-
sideration of the liquor traffic. It is exceedingly
doubtful if these measures will have any ap-
preciable effect in decreasing the Jong roll of
drunkards, who are being increased and mariu-
tured every day. The drunk, as a rule, does
not drink because of the barmaid, or because of
the company he is in. He drinks because the
peculiar wearing effects of life in a civilisation
have caused the desire for the alcohol which was
a disgusting vice yesterday and is an absolute
indispensability to-day. The capacity of the
average man as a consumer of alcohol is, say the
pathologists, about 6ozs. All above that quantity
stays in the stomach in its crude state. It rages
most fiercely on the grey matter of the brain, and
its continued use so hardens the nerve centres that
they refuse to perform their functions without the
aid of a fresh stimulant. Then comes the craving
for the morning dram to steady the nerves, make
an artificial appetite, and tone the flaccid muscles.
Religious sentiment objects to our condoning the
liquor habit by calling it a disease and not a
crime. Once it was a crime, now strengthened by
time it is disease and crime both. In the majority
of cases all the resolutions in the world; all the
signing of pledges, all the struggles of weak
nature against the old habit are useless unless
backed up by such a material help as Warner’s
Safe Cure. Safe Cure and resolution will abso-
lutely destroy the liquor habit. That has been,
proved in numberless instances. ,
Mr. William Patterson, of Cairns, Queensland’,,
writes thus:—“l commenced the use of your
Safe Cure some years ago when it was first intro-
duced into the colonies. I was a very heavy-
drinker in my early days, and with the excessive-
use of spirits my brain became softened and ■my
reason nearly gone. I became alarmed at the-
state I was in, and would gladly have taken any-
thing that I thought would do me any good. I
had a wife and family to support and was in a
fair way of business, but could not attend to it as
.formerly. Reading one day something about
Warner’s Safe Cure, I determined to give it a
trial. I managed, after some difficulty, to pro-
cure a few bottles and commenced its use, keeping
strictly to the directions and not taking any
strong drink in the meantime. After using a few
bottles my brain became clear and I felt altogether
a new man.”


A. W. STEPHEN, L.S.,
HYDRAULIC ENGINEER.
Surveys and Estimates on Irrigation Works a Speciality
MULGOA. N.S.W.
CHE A P MUS I C.
■•PLAYFELLOWS."
This popular Song, by the composer of “After the Ball,
and 1000 other popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &0., at Bd.
each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
203 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
T HB
JOHN JERGER
Gold-saving Machine.
Orders for above received
by undersigned. “ The Poo«
Man’s Friend,” to pub througi
400 buckets of dirt per day,
£l6 f.0.b., Sydney, Cash
to accompany each order.
JOHN JERGER, In-
ventor and Patentee,
Goulburn, New
S. Wales.
Government Notices-
N
OTI 0 B
UNDER
REAL
PROPERTY
ACT.
APPLICATIONS having been made to bring the lands hereunder described under the provisions
of the Real Property Act, Certificates of Indefeasible Title will issue, unless caveats be lodged in
Form B of the said Act, on or before the date named opposite each case respectively.
Property.
/'William Hillier
I Holborow, Alex
ander Benson ..
(The Honorable
William Alexan-
der Long, M.L.C.,
and George Hill
Henry Withers
No. 9244. Balmain, 36J perches, at the junc
tion of Duke-street and Duke-place, adjoin-
ing the premises of Mrs. Hanson
No. 9278. Campbelltown, 105 acres 2 roods William McDonald
17 perches, 7 acres 2 roods perches, and
1 rood HJ perches, comprising parts of 260
acres granted to J. Warby, 50 acres to E.
Peisley, and 100 acres to Robert Kable
No. 8462. Petersham, 2 acres 1 rood Charles Johnston
perches and perches, at the junction of
the Canterbury-road and Barker-street, com-
prising lots Nos. 4 and 5 of section No. 6,
the whole of section No. 11, and part of
section No. 12, of the village of Petersham
No. 9103. Parish of Castlereagh, 53 acres
1 rood 13 perches granted as 50 acres to J.
Daley. Also in the parishes of Currency and
Kurrajong, adjoining the properties of Mr.
Peterson, Mr. Mighell, J. Ezzy, J. Williams,
S, Hoskisson, Mrs. Fry, W. A. Long and
others, 163 acres and 288 acres 2 roods 20
perches, excluding from the latter the land
edged yellow on plan
No. 9133. Tempe, 11| perches, in Unwin-
street —is lot No. 18 of section No. 5 of the
village of Tempe, adjoining lots owned by
the late E. Flood.
No. 9259. Arncliffe, 27 acres 3 roods 8 Patience Elizabeth
perches and 8 acres 2 roods 38 perches, on Knight
the Gannon’s Forest Road, adjoining the
property of the Sydney Permanent Free-
hold Building Co.
No. 9276. Petersham, 2 roods 181} perches, at James Brown
the junction of the High Canterbury and
Parramatta Roads, adjoining the properties
of C. Brown and fi. Maonamara.
No. 9277. Petersham, 23 perches, in Cook- Charles Brown
street, adjoining the properties of J. Brown,
H. Macnamara, and E. Gilroy, comprising
lots Nos. 21 and 22 of section No. 2 of the
village of Petersham.
No. 9294. Pynnont, 2 acres 0 roods 26 ; Matthew Harris
perches, in B uik and Miller-streets—is part
of block 698 of “Ultimo Estate,” Black-
wattle Bay.
No. 9304. Fairfield, 1 rood 28 perches—com-Bernart Shieler
prises lots Nos. 1,2, and 3 of section No. 1
of the “ Orchardleigh Estate.”
No. 9305. Hurstville, 2 acres, exclusive of! 1 Thomas John
right-of-way shown on plan—is part of lot! [-Joseph Vezey Hoi
N 0.6 of the “Gannon’sForest”subdivision, jj derness
Name of Applicant.
William
Wright
James
Residence.
Balmain
Kempsey
Petersham
Richmond
Sydney
Numbla...
Surry Hills
Petersham
Petersham
Ultimo ...
Fairfield
| Hurstville
jDate up to and
inclusive of
which caveats
may be lodged.
8 June, 1894
8 June, 1894
13 July, 1894
13 July, 1894
13 July, 1894.
13 July, 1894.
13 July, 1894.
13 July, 1894.
13 July, 1894.
13 July, 1894.
13 July, 1894.
Diagrams delineating these lands may be inspected at the Land Titles Office, in Elizabeth-street,
Sydney.
Dated at Sydney this 4th day of May, 1894, at the Registrar-General’s Department.
CHARLES PINHEY,
- ' Registrar-General.
OF FORECLOSURE UNDER REAL PROPERTY ACT.
Ih the matter of the application of James Walter Grimshaw, mortgagee under memorandum of mort-
gage from Charles Edwin Goodwin, No. 183,904, dated Bth August, 1891, over the whole of the
land comprised in Certificate of Title, vol. 492, folio 18.
WHEREAS the abovenamed mortgagee has made application for an order of foreclosure of the
mortgage above referred to, accompanied by such evidence of default for six months and other facts,
as required by section 113 of the Real Property Act: Notice is hereby given, pursuant to the said Act,
that the land comprised in the said mortgage, as hereunder particularised, is offered and will remain
open for sale until the 15th June, 1894, which date has been appointed as the time upon or after which
I, the Registrar-General, will issue to the applicant an order for foreclosure, which will exclude all
claim by the abovenamed mortgagor, and of any other person claiming through or under him, unless
in the interval a sufficient amount has been realised by the sale of such land to satisfy the principal
apd interest moneys due, and all costs and expenses occasioned by such proceedings, and interest up to
the time of such sale.
A plan and further particulars may be obtained by application at the Land Titles Office,
Elizabeth-Street, Sydney.
Dated at Sydney this 4th day of May, 1894, at the Registrar-General’s Department.
CHARLES PUS HEY,
Registrar-General.
[3171] • Department of Mines and Agriculture,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
is hereby given that the undermentioned authorities to mine, granted in terms-of section
11 28, Mining Act, 1874, are lying at this Department awaiting issue to the Lessees, and that un-
less such authorities be executed and taken delivery of within thirty days from the date hereof they
will be cancelled.
HARRIE WOOD,
Under Secretary for Mines.
I a.
Part of railway reserve 1280
Nos. 180 and 7535,
parish Umbiella,
county Roxburgh 1
Part of reserve No. 202 607
and forest reserves
Nos. 180 and 175, and
including reserve No.
147, parishes Oalder-
wood, Kangaloon and
Jamberoo, county
Camden
Part of reserve No. 9615, 2000
parish Heathoobe,]
county Cumberland
r. p.|
0 0 To mine for coal
and shale
0 0 To mine for coal
0 0: To mine for coal
and shale
Government Notices.
Department of Publio Works,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
IT is hereby notified, pursuant to the provisions
of section 2, subsection 2, of the “ Metropoli-
tan Water and Sewerage Act Extension Act of
1894,” that it is proposed to declare the area com-
prised within the boundaries defined in the Sche-
dule hereto a drainage area under the said Act: —
Schedule referred to.
LONG COVE CREEK STORMWATER
DRAINS AND BRANCHES.
Description op Area.
Commencing at south-east corner of Liverpool-
road and Victoria-street, Ashfield ; thence by the
south side of Liverpool-road north-easterly and
production of same line to Marion-street; thence
by the south side of Marion-street easterly to
Renwick-street, Leichhardt; thence by the west
side of Renwick-street southerly to Parramatta-
road ; thence by the north side of Parramatta-
road westerly to Palace-road, Petersham; thence
by west side of Palace-road southerly to Norwood-
street; thence by the south side of Norwood-street
easterly to Railway-street; thence by west side of
Railway-street southerly to Croydon-street; thence
by south side of Croydon-street easterly to Cry-
stal-street ; thence by west side of Crystal-street
south-westerly to New Canterbury Road ; thence
by the north side of New Canterbury Road wes-
terly, southerly, and westerly to the Old Can-
terbury Road ; thence by the east side of Old
Canterbury Road north-easterly to Hanks-street,
Ashfield ; thence by the north side of Hanks-
street westerly to Hardy-street ; thence by
east side of Hardy-street north-easterly to
Armstrong-street; thence by west side of Arm-
strong - street north-westerly to Pope-street;
thence by south side of Pope-street easterly to
Victoria-street; thence by east side of Victoria-
street northerly to Clissold-street; thence by
south side of Clissold-street easterly to Tintern-
road; thence by east side of Tintern-road
northerly to Smith-street; thence by north side of
Smith-street westerly to Victoria-street; thence
by east side of Victoria street northerly, to the
point of commencement, at Liverpool-road.
Boundaries of area shown on plans A and B in
blue edging, which are now to be seen at the
Offices of the Water and Sewerage Board, Pitt-
street, Sydney, and in the Offices of the Council
Clerks at Ashfield, and Leichhardt, and Peter-
sham.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
Minister for Works.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
IT is hereby notified, pursuant to the provisions
of section 2, subsection 2, of the “Metro-
politan Water and Sewerage Act Extension Act
of 1894,” that it is proposed to declare the area
comprised within the boundaries defined in the
Schedule hereto a drainage area under the said
Act: —
Schedule referred to.
RUSHCUTTER’S CREEK STORMWATER
DRAIN.
Description op Area.
Commencing at a point on Rushcutter’s Bay,
Woollahra, at the intersection of the production
of the east side of Glenmore-road, Paddington,
and high-water mark; thence by the production
southerly to the New South Head-road ; thence
by the north side of the New South Head-road to
a lane about 4 chains east of the east side of Glen-
more-road, Paddington ; thence by the west side
of that lane southerly to Reddy-street; thence by
a line south-westerly about 6 chains to an angle in
the fenced line at rear of allotments fronting
South-street; thence by the same fenced line
south-easterly to the next angle thereof, and by
its production to Glenmore-road ; thence by the
west side of Glenmore-road south-westerly about
2 chains to a back line of subdivision of properties
facing Glenmore-road; thence by a subdivision
line westerly about 19 chains to an angle; thence
by a line bearing south-westerly about 11 chains
to an angle; thence by a line bearing north-
westerly about 7J chains to Brown-street; thence
by west side Brown-street south-westerly to Glen-
view-street; thence by the north side of Glenview-
street north-westerly to Liverpool-street; thence
by the east side of Liverpool-street north-westerly
to Great Barcom-street, City; thence by the east
side of Great Barcom-street north-easterly to
Bayswater-road ; thence by the south side of
Bayswater-road easterly about chains ; thence
by boundary line of allotments northerly about
chains; thence by a line north-easterly to
mouth of Rushcutter’s Creek ; thence by high-
water mark of Rushcutter’s Bay, to point of
commencement.
Being area shown by full red lines on plan D
which is now to be seen at the Offices of the Water
and Sewerage Board and Town Clerk, at Sydney,
and in the Offices of the Council Clerks at Pad-
dington and Woollahra.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
Minister for Works.
Department of Publio Works,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
IT is hereby notified, pursuant to the provisions
of section 2, subsection 2, of the “Metro-
politan Water and Sewerage Act Extension Act
of 1894,” that it is proposed to declare the area
comprised within the boundaries defined in the
Schedule hereto a drainage area under the said
Act:—
Schedule Referred to.
IRON COVE CREEK STORMWATER
DRAINS AND BRANCHES.
Description op Area.
Commencing on the south bank of Iron Cove
Creek, at Church-street, Ashfield ; thence by the
west side and the production of Church-street
south-easterly to Chandos-street; thence by the
west side of Chandos-street southerly to Orping-
ton-street; thence by the west side of Orpington-
street south-westerly to Elizabeth-street; thence
by the south-west side of Elizabeth-street south-
easterly to Liverpool-road ; thence by the north
side of Liverpool-road south-westerly to Victoria-
street ; thence by the west side of Victoria-street
southerly to Smith-street; thence by the south
side of Smith-street easterly to Tintern-road;
thence by the west side of Tintern-road southerly
to Clissold-street; thence by the north side of
Clissold-street westerly to Victoria-street; thence
by the west side of Victoria-street southerly to
Pope-street; thence by the north side of Pope-
street westerly to Holden-street; thence by the
east side of Holden-street northerly to Goodlet-
street; thence by the north-west side of Goodlet-
streeb south-westerly to Milton-street; thence by
a line bearing easterly to a point on Croydon
Avenue, Canterbury, about 7 chains south of
George’s River-road ; thence by a line at right
angles to Croydon Avenue westerly to Brighton
Avenue; thence by the east side of Brighton
Avenue northerly to George’s River-road ; thence
[ by the north side of George’s River-road westerly
_ Government Notices.
to Seymour-street, Enfield; thenoe by the~easfc
side of Seymour street to its end; thence bv
sub-division line south-westerly to a p o ; n i
opposite production of Violet-street on aforesaid
subdivision line; thenoe by that production
westerly to Waratah-street; thence by the east
side of Waratah-streeb northerly to Lily-street-
thence by the north side of Lily-street westerly to
George-street; thence by east side of George-
streeb northerly to Liverpool-road ; thence by the"
south side of Liverpool-road easterly to the Muni-
cipal boundary between Burwood and Ashfield!
thence by that boundary north-easterly to Thomas!
street, Burwood ; thence by a line bearing north-'
east to a lane off Jones-street, Ashfield ; thence
by that lane north-easterly to Jones-street; thence
by the south side of Jones street easterly to Croy-
don-road; thenoe by the east side of Croydon-road
north-easterly to the south bank of Iron Cove
Creek; and by that creek downwards to the point
of commencement, at Church-street.
Boundaries of area shown on plan A in blue
edging, which is now to be seen at the offices of
the Water and Sewerage Board, Pitt-street
Sydney, and in the offices of Council Clerks afc
Ashfield, Enfield and Canterbury.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
Minister for Works.
- * ~
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
IT is hereby notified, pursuant to the provision B
of section 2, subsection 2, of the “Metro-
politan Water and Sewerage Act Extension Act
of 1.894,” that it is proposed to declare the area
comprised within the boundaries defined in the
Schedule hereto a drainage area under the said
Act :
Schedule referred to.
BEATTIE STREET STORMWATER
DRAIN, BALMAIN.
Description of Area.
Commencing at the east corner of Weston and
Darling streets; thence by the south-east side of
Darling-street northerly and easterly to Montague-
street; thence by the west side of Montague-
street southerly to Malleus-street; thence by the
west side of Mullens-street southerly to Ennis-
street; thence by the south side of Ennis-street
easterly to Ennis-lane; thence by west side of
Ennis-lane southerly to Reyndld-street; thence by
the south side of Reynold-street north-easterly to
Smith-street; thence by the west side of Smith-
street and the production of that line southerly to
the old high-water mark, White Bay ; thence by
old high-water mark south-westerly to Abattoir-
road ; thence by the north side of Abattoir -road
westerly to Weston-street; thence by the north
side of Weston-street north-Westerly, to the point
of commencement, at Darling-street,
The said area being shown on plan C in full nd
line, which is now to be seen at the offices of the
Water and Sewerage Board, Pitt-street. Sydney,
and in the office of the Council Clerk, Balmain. '
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
Minister for Works.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
IT is hereby notified, pursuant to the provisions
of section 2, subsection 2, of the “Metro-
politan Water and Sewerage Act Extension Act
of 1894,” that it is proposed to declare the area
comprised within the boundaries defined in the
Schedule hereto a drainage area under the said
Act: —
Schedule Referred to.
CAREENING COVE STORiM WATER
DRAIN.
Description of Area,
Commencing at the corner of Berry-street and
Napier-street; thence by the south side of Berry-
street easterly to Walker-street; thence by the
west side of Walker-street southerly to Spring-
street ; thence by a production of north side of
Spring-street easterly to Little Arthur-street;
thence by the west side of Little Arthur-street
southerly to a point about 3J chains south of
Mount-street ; thence by a line at right angles to
Little Arthur-street westerly to Arthur-street;
thence by the east side of Arthur-street northerly
to Mount street; thence by the north side of
Mount-street westerly to Walker-street; thenoe
by the west side of Walker-street southerly to
Lower Hill-street; thence by the north side of
Lower Hill-street westerly to Dennison-street;
thence by the east side of Dennison-street northerly
to Hill-street West; thence by the north side of
Hill-street West and a production of that line
westerly to William-street; thence by the east
side of William-street northerly to Mount-street;
thence by the north side of Mount-street westerly
to a point being the production of the north-east
side of Napier-street; thence by that production
and the north-east side of Napier-street to Berry-
street, being the point of commencement.
The said area is shown by a full red line on
plan E, which is now to be seen at the Offices of
the Water and Sewerage Board, Pitt-street,
Sydney, and in the Office of the Council Clerk at
North Sydney,
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
Minister for Works.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
IT is hereby notified, pursuant to the provisions
of section 2, subsection 2, of the “ Metro-
politan Water and Sewerage Act Extension Act
of 1894,” that it is proposed to declare the area
comprised within the boundaries defined in the
Schedule hereto a drainage area under the said
Act:—
Schedule reb'krred to.
erskinevilHb and munni street
STORMWATER DRAINS.
Description of Area.
Commencing at the south - west corner of
Erskineville-road and King-street, Newtown;
thence by the south side of the Erskineville-
road south-easterly to Swanson-street; thence by
the south side of Swanson-street easterly to Park-
street ; thence by the west side of Park-street
northerly to Henderson Road ; thence by the
south side of Henderson Road, Alexandria,
easterly to a subdivision line about 3£ chains east
of Alexander-street; thence by said subdivision
line southerly to the intersection of Suttor and
Renwick-streets; thence by the north side of
Renwick-street westerly to Dibbs-street, thence
by the west aide of Dibbs-street south-westerly to
Jennings-street, and by that line produced south-
westerly to Copeland-street; thence by the east
side of Copeland-street south-easterly to Mitchell-
road ; thence by the west side of Mitchell-road
south-westerly to Harley-street; thence by the
south side of Harley-street south-easterly to Law-
rence-lane; thence by the west side of Lawrence-
lane south-westerly to Maddox-street; thence by
the south side of Maddox-street south-easterly to
Lawrence-street; thence by west side of Law-
rence-street south-westerly to Huntley-street;
thenoe by the south side of Huntley-street south-


- Government Notices.
to Euston-street ; thenceby a lino
bearing south-easterly about 16 chains to a lane;
thence by that lane easterly about 6 chains to
the back boundary line of some allotments front-
ing Bourke-road ; thence by the back boundary
line just described south-westerly about 24
chains to its intersection with east bank of Shea’s
Creek; thence by a line bearing north-westerly
about 59 chains to a corner of Lord-street and
Cook’s River-road, Erskineville; thence by the
east side of Cook’s River-road northerly and
north-easterly to King-street, Newtown; thence
bv the south side of King-street north-easterly, to
the point of commencement, at Erskineville-road.
The said area being shown on plan B by a full
red line, which is now to be seen at the Offices of
the Water and Sewerage Board, Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, and in the Offices of the Council Clerks at
"Newtown, Erskineville, and Alexandria.
m WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
Minister for Works.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
IT is hereby notified, pursuant to the provisions
of section 2, subsection 2, of the “ Metropoli-
tan Water and Sewerage Act Extension Act of
1894,” that it is proposed to declare the area com-
prised within the boundaries defined in the
Schedule hereto a drainage area under the said
Schedule Refereed to.
WENTWORTH PARK AND PYRMONT
BRIDGE ROAD STORMWATER
DRAIN.
Description of Area.
Commencing at corner of Pyrmont Bridge-road
and Jones-street south-easterly to William Henry-
street; thence by the north side of William
Henry-street south-westerly to Bay-street, Glebe;
thence by west side of Bay-street southerly to
Francis-street; thence by north side of Francis-
street westerly to Franklin-place; thence by east
side of Franklin-place northerly to Glebe-street;
thence by north-east side of Glebe-street north-
westerly to Mitohell-street; thence by south-east
side of Mitchell-street north-easterly to Brough-
ton-street; thence by south-west side of Brough-
ton-etreet north-westerly to Denham-lane; thence
by north side' of Denham-lane north-easterly to
Wentworth-street; thence by west side of Went-
worth-street north-easterly to Denham-street;
thence by north side of Denham-street north-
easterly to Bellvue-street; thence by west side of
Bellvue-street north-westerly to Cardigan-street;
thence by the south side of Cardigan-street south-
westerly to Darling-lane ; thence by east side of
Darling-lane south-easterly to Lyndhurst-street;
thence by north side of Lyndhurst-street south-
westerly to Brougham-street; thence by west side
of Brougham-street south-easterly to Denham-
street ; thence by north side of Denham-street
south-westerly to Oottenham-street; thence by
east side of Cottenham-street north-westerly to
Marlborough-street; thence by east side of Bay
View-street north-westerly to Avon-street; thence
by east side of Avon-street north-westerly to
Quarry-street; thence by south side of Quarry-
street north-easterly to Darling-street; thence by
west side of Darling-street south-easterly to
Pyrmont Bridge-road ; thence by Pyrmont Bridge-
road north-easterly, to point of commencement, at
Jones-street, City.
The said area being shown on plan B by a full
red line, which is now to be seen at the offices of
the Water and Sewerage Board, Pitt-street,
Sydney, and in the offices of the Town Clerk,
Sydney, and the Council Clerk at Glebe.
* WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
Minister for Works.
Department of Public Work,
Sydney, Ist May, 1894.
IT is hereby notified, pursuant to the provisions
of section 2, subsection 2 of the “ Metro-
politan Water and Sewerage Act Extension Act
of 1894,” that it is proposed to declare the area
comprised within the boundaries defined in the
Schedule hereto a drainage area under the said
Act; —
Schedule referred to.
WILLOUGHBY FALLS STORMWATER
DRAIN.
Description op Area.
Commencing at the south side of West-street,
at its intersection with Lane Cove-road ; thence by
the eastern side of Lane Cove-road to rear of
“Union Innthence easterly along boundary of
said inn ; thence northerly alongjrear of properties
facing West-street about 5 chains; thence westerly
3 chains; thence north-westerly along lane and
prolongation of same about 6 chains to angle on
north side of Myrtle-street; thence south-
westerly along said street to Lane Cove-road;
thence northerly about 9 chains to a lane; thence
easterly 9 chains by that lane to intersection of
lane at rear of west side of West-street; thence
northerly by eastern side of that lane about 12
chains to the intersection of lane north of Falcon-
street ; thence by the south side of said lane and
prolongation of same about 20 chains; thence
northerly about 6 chains by a line parallel to
Walker-street; thence easterly by a line 6
chains long; thence southerly by a line
9 chains long to the south side of Falcon-
street ; thence westerly by the south side of Falcon-
street to its intersection with Miller-street; thence
southerly by the eastern side of Miller-street about
16 chains ; thence westerly by a line at right
angles about 10 chains; thence southerly by a
line about 11 chains parallel to West-street;
thence south-westerly along south side of West-
street and its prolongation, to point of commence-
ment.
The said area is shown by a full red line on plan
E, which is now to be seen at the Offices of the
Water and Sewerage Board, Pitt-street, Sydney,
and in the Office of the Council Clerk at North
Sydney.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
Minister for Works.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 8, 1894.
ri LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 23.
Supply of 500,000 Hardwood Blocks
Erection of Wash-houses, Armourer’s Workshop,
Repairs, &c., to Buildings, Spectacle Island
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6.
Bridge, Cooper’s Creek, road Cluuea to Duraby
Grass
Bridge, Turragulla Creek, near Pilliga
Bridge, Pee Bee Creek, road Kempsey to Armi-
dale
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Weatralian Works Commissioner Venn,
acting in compliance with a trades-petitlon, re-
minds Government contractors that " sub-
letting ” will not be allowed.
The commercial editor of Sydney Tele-
graph remarks, in the financial column, that it is
only the apathy of N.S. Wales which retards
Federation. The commercial editor, having
nothing to do with politics and being under no
obligation to boost the Foreign-trade interest,
thus makes a ghastly exhibition of the other
editor, who is busy all the time pointing out that
it is the Victorian tariff which retards Federation.
This recalls another episode of seven years ago,
when the Telegraph’s previous commercial editor
announced that the Parkes Government was going
to take the protective duty off candles, and this,
it was confidently expected, would check local
production, and thereby raise prices. All the rest
of the paper was busy declaring, at the top of
its voice, that Freetrade lowered prices while Pro-
tection raised them, and this unlooked-for candour
struck the editorial department like a cold door-
key on the spine.
At Mackay(N.Q.), three years ago, a kanaka
was suspected of leprosy, examined by the local
medico, and discharged. Recently the police
suspected some more, so the black was arrested,
and a chunk of alleged leprosy was scraped off
his person and posted to Brisbane for examination,
the Government medical officer being quite unable
to visit so far-away a place as Mackay. The
sample was duly reported to be leprous, and
without being seen by the doctor who decided his
fate, the kanaka was shipped off to the leper
dep6t at Friday Island, Torres Straits. Comment
was met by the remark, “Oh, it’s only a kanaka.”
Furthermore, it’s only North Queensland, which
should be very well pleased to be governed as a
Queen-street bureaucracy sees fit. But what price
the medical authorities who award life-in-death
without seeing the patient, in such a complicated
disease as leprosy; and what price the liberty of
the subject in a land where the Govt, acts at once
on such an off-hand dictum ?
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.'s Report.
Messrs. M'Burney, Wallis and Co. report having held
usual fortnightly sale to-day, when they submitted a cata-
logue comprising chiefly country scoured parcels, together
with station odd bales in the grease. The usual number of
buyers were in attendance. We found the market slightly
easier as compared with our last auction, being more espe-
cially noticeable in the case of inferior wool; though for all
classes it was evident that buyers’ limits were to some ex-
tent reduced ; at all events, no great desire was evinced to
do business at prices lately ruling. The cabled informa-
tion to hand yesterday in regard to the opening of the
London May sales, reporting a downward tendency in
the market there, militated without doubt to a great
extent against satisfactory sales being made here to-day.
Shippers last season, we are afraid, will not have much
cause for satisfaction should they compare notes with
neighbours who realised in Sydney market. Some of
the principal lots sold by us were:—WH over Y,
9 bales scouted fleece from Tumut at IOJd. per lb., and 2 of
bellies and piece at BJd.; Riverside over JNM over Dubbo,
6 scoured first clothing at 9Jd., 3 third skin at 7d., 1 at 5Jd.;
T. Sorrell over Bolairo, from Monaro, 1 scoured crossbred
at 7Jd, lat 7d; 1 bale, TJ over New England, 1 scoured
lambs at BJd; 1 bale, HC&C, from Forbes, at7|d; PR,
from Tumut, 3 scoured fleeoe at 9d, 3 pieces at 7|d, 1
lambs at 6d, 2 locks at 6d ; from Walcha, WW, 2 washed
at BJd, 1 at 7Jd, 1 at 7d ; J. Cox over Mangopolah, 2
greasy at BJd; HCR, 1 greasy mixed at Bd; JT over A over
New England, 1 greasy pieces from Uralla at 6Jd, 1 locks
at 6Jd perib.
Sydney 3rd May, 1894.
CHEAP WINE
Within the reach of everybody. Health and strength to
the weak and suffering! Pleasure and luxury to the
healthy 1 Sent to any address on receipt of Cheque,
Postal Note or Money Order for 12/- (carriage extra), ONE
CASE of ONE DOZEN reputed Quart Bottles of our
T CLARET.
Securely packed in straw envelopes, in a strong case. This
is absolutely the pure juice of the grape, made in N.S.W.,
and is a splendid dinner wine, a great bloodmaker, and
tonic. Pure HOCK to be had on same terms. Superior
PORT, 18/- per Dozen. All kinds of wines kept. The
Largest Stock in Sydney. Price Lists on applica-
tion. U. DINES, N.S.W. Wine Merchant, 14 Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
The Clifton Distribution.
DARLING DOWNS, QUEENSLAND.
THE winner ot the first prize in the Clifton
Distribution will obtain a large fortune and
be set up for life, the prize being the famous
Clifton Head Station, with 4208 acres
magnificent land, the finest on the Darling Downs
two capital houses, cottages, stores, stabling;
horse, cattle, sheep and cow yards; gardens,
cultivation 30 acres; 7000 sheep, horses and cattle.
The land is divided into six paddocks ; splendid
water supply ; 2 miles from Clifton township and
railway station, and 61 hours journey from Bris-
bane. Valuation, £21,400 or £17,000 net cash.
The second to the ninth prizes vary in value from
£4460 to £1096 , and are grand and valuable prizes
from which a large return can be obtained. The
tenth to eighteenth prizes are from £9BB to £225,
and would form beautiful homesteads. The
nineteenth to thirty-sixth prizes ate farms within a
quarter of a mile of Nobby Railway Station, every
acre ready for the plough ; value £5O each. The
thirty-seventh to three hundred and fifty-sixth prizes
value £5 to £2O each can be sold for cash less 10
per cent, by the winners. The agents guarantee
those amounts. So long as the subscriptions cover
the value of the first pnze, it will be drawn for
with other prizes; to be publicly announced before
the drawing. The drawing will be a public one, on
Tattersall's system; due notice will be given of
time and place; all shareholders admitted. The
agents also desire to say that the committee —
consisting of the Hon. J. O. Heussler, M.L.C.;
Arthur Morgan, Esq., M.L.A.; Thos. Alford,
Esq., J.P.— are gentlemen of high standing in the
community. Our solicitors (Messrs. Thynne and
Macartney), and our auditors (Messrs. Turner and
Strong) are in the very front rank of their pro-
fessions. Our bankers, the Royal Bank of Queens-
land, Ltd., one of our best Queensland banking
institutions(through which shares can be obtained);
and the agents, one of the oldest-established firms
in Brisbane, would not countenance or assist
anything that was not absolutely legal or bona-fide.
The reason of the assistance of those mentioned
above in this undertaking is because they consider
that by its means many people will be settled on
these beautiful lands at small expense to themselves,
and thus helping what should be the great national
policy of Queensland, settlement on the lands.
Any shareholder who may be dissatisfied with
any of the arrangements of the distribution can
have his money returned upon application before
the drawing. The agreement as to titles for the
land, &c., can be inspected at the office of the
agents.
Register your letters and send 2 addressed and
stamped envelopes for reply and result. Drawing,
June 14th.
ARTHUR MARTIN & CO., LTD.,
Agents, Brisbane, Queensland.
mMy.
TOWN HALL,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR ONE NIGHT ONLY!
FBIDAT, MAT 11.
Admission Free. No Collection.
Boys, Children and Objectionable Persons not admitted.
Doors open 7.30 p.m., commencing at 8 sharp.
Orchestra in attendance.
Newcastle Herald, 27th April, 1894.
Professor Plolxardl.
A BENEFIT ENTERTAINMENT!
In the Victoria Theatre last evening Professor
Richard gave, by arrangement with a committee
of citizens, an electrical entertainment in aid of
the charitable societies of the district. The house
was fairly filled in every part, and it is almost
unnecessary to state that the people were not
only interested, but at times excited, by what
they saw. In the unavoidable absence of the
Mayor, Alderman Moroney occupied the chair,
and on the stage were Mr. H. Berkeley, manager
of the entertainment; Mr, J. S. Rodgers, repre-
sentative of the Benevolent Society; Mr. T. H.
Raysmith, a representative of the Newcastle
Relief Society; and Mr. A. “umbury, of the
Mutual Help Society. These gentlemen formed
a committee, and, as a result of the entertainment,
the sum of £2O 4s. will be divided among the
benevolent societies named.
The Professor, in opening his lecture, explained
that it was his custom when he visited a large
town to give a donation to the charitable institu-
tions, and it was only right that he should do the
same in Newcastle, where, despite his critics, he
had made hosts of friends and done good busi-
ness. When he was asked to give a benefit enter-
tainment in aid of the charitable institutions of
this city, he gladly consented, and all the expenses
of the theatre, advertising, and other items were
paid by him. He had, of course, heard that the
hospital authorities refused to recognise the enter-
tainment or participate in the profit, * All he
could say on that subject was, if that institution
was so rich that it could afford to throw away a
considerable sum of money he was glad to hear it,
and he hoped the hospital would always be in
that flourishing condition. After referring to
electricity as a cure for certain diseases he called
for patients, and it was quickly seen that more
than the usual supply was forthcoming.
The first patient treated was Mr. Johns, who
was the bearer of a letter from the Mayor stating
that he had been afflicted with deafness for 20
years. When asked his name and address, the
man could not hear a word, although it was
bawled in his ear. After a course of treatment,
occupying 10 minutes, the man answered a series
of questions put to him in a moderate voice from
all distances up to four yards.
The second case was that of a youth, 14 years of
age, named Willian Atkin, who brought a letter
from the Rev. Seth Jones. The lad’s mother
accompanied him to the stage, and stated that he
had been partly deaf for seven years. The Pro-
fessor, after applying the current from himself to
the youth for five minutes, invited the committee
to examine the patient, who answered questions
put to him in an ordinary voice from the opposite
end of the stage. His mother unhesitatingly
affirmed that the lad had not heard so well for
seven years, and in questioning him herself, she
stated that she had never known him to hear so
well.
Bell, a resident of Newcastle for 22 years,
brought a certificate from the Mayor stating that
the man was blind, and four years ago he lost the
sight of both eyes. The Professor said that the
optic nerve of the right eye was dead, but there
was a chance that the other eye could be restored.
After five minutes’ treatment the man distin-
guished an apple from an orange, told the colour
correctly of two handkerchiefs, and described
several articles. He said that he could see the
audience, and without doubt he could see better
than he had done for years. In answer to the
committee the man said that he could only discern
light from darkness and distinguish some objects
with one eye, but he could at that moment see the
links in Alderman Moroney’s watch-chain. On
leaving the stage the Professor said that he would
give the man a course of treatment free of charge.
The next case was a very sad one, and there is
no doubt that the patient was stone blind. The
case was that of a girl, age 16. Alderman Robson,
the Mayor of Merewether, wrote, stating that the
girl had been blind for three years, and had been
treated by a number of medical men without the
slightest beneficial result. The Rev. E. W. Bris-
oombe wrote testifying that the girl had been in
the Sydney Blind Institution, and was totally
without sight. The Professor stated that the case
was almost hopeless, and if he succeeded in show-
ing her a glimmer of light it would be more than
he anticipated. After the treatment the poor girl
distinguished a lighted match held before her at a
distance of four feet, and she said she could see it.
Her mother assured the committee that her
daughter had never seen a glimmer of light for
two years. The Professor stated that he would
treat the poor girl free of charge during the
remainder of his stay in the city.
Mrs. Woods was the next patient, and she was
recommended by Mr. Alex. Thornton, J.P. The
woman is the mother of a large family, and for
several years has suffered from acute rheumatism,
especially in the legs. This case was also success-
fully treated, and the woman, who had to be
assisted to ascend the stage, left it by herself.
The last part of the entertainment consisted of
numerous experiments with the eleotrio current,
and for over an hour the Professor held nis
audience completely interested. At the conclusion
he was accorded a hearty vote of thanks on the
motion of the chairman, and a vote of thanks to
the gentlemen who managed the entertainment
brought the proceedings to a close.
Professor Richard will be in the city for another
week, when he leaves for the metropolis, where he
will make a second appearance before leaving foi
Europe.
Corresponclexice.
BE PROFESSOR RICHARD.
TO THE EDITOR.
Sir, —Will you allow me space in your columns
for the following remarks ? Professor Richard is
one of the most advanced medical electricians of
the present day. He has not come to the Austra-
lasian colonies to make a name for himself; he has
done that long ago in the old land. He has prac-
tised for many years in France, Great Britain,
United States of America, Spain, Italy, and other
European cities, and were you to examine the
documents he has in his possession, I think you
would arrive at the same conclusion. Four or five
months ago I consulted the best specialists in
Auckland, Christchurch, Sydney and Melbourne.
One and all came to this conclusion, that no mortal
skill could remove the obstruction to my sight,
and the only thing they attempted to do was to
order very strong spectacles. I determined, how-
ever, as a last resort, to seek the Professor’s advice.
I have travelled thousands of miles in order that I
might place myself under his treatment, and I am
to-day in a position to say publicly that the mark
is daily disappearing, and I expect in two or three
weeks to have ray sight restored. Is this not a
great triumph for electricity ? If any doubt the
veracity of these statements, I am to be found at
Mrs. Jones’, Watt and King streets, where they
can have ocular demonstration. —I am, etc.,
JAMES RAE, Financial Agent,
of Auckland, N.Z.
Newcastle, 25th April, 1894.
TO THE EDITOR 01 THE COLONIST.
Sir,—The name of Professor Richard is perfectly
familiar to me, he having lived in Park-lane. May-
fair, W., within a stone’s throw of where I resided
in London. The leading physicians there, acknow-
ledging the curative power of electricity, sent to
the Professor those of their patients requiring
electrical treatment: in fact, Professor Richard is
reputed to have made a fortune out of the London
medical profession. He is a man looked up to
and respected, and worked harmoniously with the
scientific and leading physicians of the day.
Yours, &c.,
F. Buxton, O.E.
Nelson, New Zealand,
February 27, 1894.
Newcastle Herald, Ist May, 1894,
Charlton-street, Newcastle,
April 30, 1894.
PROFESSOR RICHARD, M.E.
Sir, —Seeing you intend leaving the city in a
few days, I desire to convey to you my sincere
THANKS for your BENEFICIAL TREAT-
MENT of me in my sore affliction. Six years ago
I was attacked with rheumatic fever, which left
me a hopeless cripple. Have been twice in the
Newcastle Hospital; the first time left somewhat
improved, but have not been able to get about
without the use of crutches. After your first
treatment my back became stronger, and was thus
able to stand more erect and also to walk a short
distance without the aid of crutches. Have now
undergone five operations treated by you, and this
day am enabled to walk a considerable distance
without the aid of sticks. Although my limbs are
a bit bent, I am much stronger, and can now
place my feet flat on the ground. I feel myself
getting more useful every day, for which to you
my gratitude is due.
I hope, sir, you may be long spared to relieve
suffering humanity, as undoubtedly your treat-
ment of me has been very beneficial.
Yours respectfully,
George Millar
SPECIALIST FOR BOTH SEXES in all
Diseases of the Human Frame- Paralysis, Rheu-
matism, Spinal Affections, Locomotorataxy, Hys-
teria, Loss of Speech, Eyesight, Deafness, Liver
Torpidity, Dyspepsia, Cramp, Varicose Veins,
Nervousness, Debility, Neuralgia, Constipa-
tion, Writer’s Cramp, Exhaustion, Melancholia,
Stomach Distension, Local Weakness, Sleepless-
ness, Men suffering from the results of Indis-
cretions and Follies, &c.
NOTICE TO PATlENTS.—Professor
RICHARD, M.E., may be consulted Free of
Charge from 9 a.ra. to 8 p.m. in his private
address Consulting-rooms during his short season
in Sydney. Fees moderate for a course of private
treatment.
The ELECTRIC NEWS and Testimonials
free on application. Professor RICHARD, M.E.,
is not connected with any establishment similar
to his name in Sydney.
A few of Professor RICHARD’S Patent Medical
Electric Chairs and Medical Eleotrio Coils Magines
may be obtained by patients at his private Con-
sulting-rooms, with full instructions for use, and
guaranteed to perfection in all oases.
Patients desirous to be treated privately should
not delay. Guaranteed to fulfil all contracts to
patients before leaving Sydney.
\
Professor RICHARD, M.E., will not visit the
Provincial Towns.
PRIVATE ADDRESS CONSULTING-
ROOMS, No. 169 North Maoquarie-street, next
door Australian Club, Sydney*


ESTABLISHED 1819.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Sociftv established
I i Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors:—.The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES U. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;J. T.
WALKED, Esq.; THOMAS, LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS,
E3q.,J.F.; JiOBT. J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
Accumulated Funds ... ... Over Eleven Millions sterling
'Tlic GASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over
One Million sterling.
Head. OfH.ce: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
f
>VooL
pl\opiJCE
& (iRAIN
Brokers
,SiATIOnA<jENTS
&I9JJDOH.
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening titled into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 12/6 each ; Plainer Finish,
J/6 each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Atvarded FIRST PRIZE by Royal Agri-
cultural Society.
W. Jno. Balter, Cutler, 3 Hunter-st., Sydney
few
-
m
illlilillllr/lfll:
jlllHlliill
£
_> :• '--i
“CLOTHED WITH AIR.”
CELLULAR AERTEX CLOTH ia composed of small cells, in which
the air is enclosed and warmed by tlxe heat of the body, a perfect
non-conducting layer being thus formed next the skin. Owing to the
cellular constx'uction, this cloth is much lighter and better ventilated
than ordinary fabrics, easier to wash, and a positive safeguard against
Chills.
Ladies’ Cellular Nightdresses
(Trimmed with real Torchon Lace) made in
COTTON, LISLE THREAD, SILK and COT TON, NATURAL WOOL,
MERINO, AND SILK AND MERINO.
Prices from 9a. to 30 s.
Combinations, Corsets, Petticoats, Bodices, Vests, Drawers, Stockings,
etc., etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC by the YARD or PIECE.
Price Lists, Pamphlets and all particulars,
Cellular Clothing Depot,
(Nearly opp. Hunter-street) 305-307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DURABILITY and ECONOMY !
The Celebrated “Orient” Clothing
Gives UNIVERSAL SATISFACTION, and is UNEQUALLED
For Fit, Style and Wear.
All Garments are CUT from the Best Models, and the Materials are Thoroughly Shrunk.
The ORIENT Clothing is in all Textures, and suitable for Office, Bush, Town, Riding, Walking,
Travelling. The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being MADE
TO ORDER.
Pirst Quality Men’s Suits ... ... 40s
Extra „ „ ... ... 45s
Special „ „ ... ... 50s
|3P“ VALUE UNRIVALLED.
PATTERNS ROST FREE ON APPLICATION. INSPECTION INVITED.
David. Jones & Company
ORIENT CLOTHIERS,
Opposite (r, P, 0. 9 George Street , Sydney,
MA3Mr.Y
Co-Operative Steam Ferry Co. (Ltd.)
v —FROM—\
No. 1 JETTV. CIKCUL.4K dFAT
(Foot of Pitt-street), to
Main Manly Wharf
THE STEAMERS of this COMPANY run as follows
(weather permitting, and as far as practicable):
Lean; Sydney— 7.ls, 8.0, 9.0, 10.30, 11.30, 12.30(1.0),
1.30 (2.0), 2.30 (3.0>, 3.30 (4.0), 4.30, 5.0, 5.30, 6.15,
, 7.30, 9.30, 11.15.
Leave Manly - 7.15, 8.10, 8.45, 9.45, 11.30, 12.30, 1.30
(2.0), 2.30 (3.0\ 3.30 (4.0', 4.30 (5.0), 5.30, 6.0,6.30,
7.0, 8.30, 10.15.
Trips marked () Saturday only.
Special Time-Table, Sundays and Holidays.
SQUATTERS KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
Post Free, 6s. 6d..
*l-?, Size.
R. A G. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 Georye St., Sydney.
Postour Razor to be Ground and Set —enclose 1/3.
PROPERTY DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST THE SHAREHOLDERS IN
lie Woggonora Building Society
(Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.)
Proposed Issue of 20,000 Shares at £1 Eae.'
ONE SHARE FOR *l.
NO LIABILITY.
Committee of Management:
ARTHUR LEEDS, Esq., Burrenbilla Station.
P. MoGUIGAN, Esq., Merchant, Onnnamulla.
HY. BURTON, Esq., Woggonora Station, „
Solicitors:
Messrs. THYNNE & MACARTNEY, Brisbane.
Sydney References:
Messrs. JOSEPH LEEDS & CO., Stock
Station Agents.
Bankers :
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMP A 1
OF SYDNEY, Limited.
The Committee of Management, having purchased the undermentioned properties, have deci
to distribute the same by ballot amongst the Members of the Society as provided by the Society’s ru
60,000 Acres of Splendid Pastoral Land.
Stocked with 20,000 Well-bred Young Sheep.
The Properties, which are more fully described below, to be divided amongst the Sharehoh!
by ballot are :
FIRST PRISE
SECOND PRISE -
THIRD PRISE
One Prize
- Value £6500
- Value £5500
- Value £4500
- Value £lOOO
10 Frizes, Value £lOO each - £lOOO
10 Prizes, Value £5O each- £5OO
50 Prizes, Value £lO each - £5OO
100 Prizes, Value £5 each- £5OO
Total Value of Frizes £OO,OOO.
Winners of all Prizes, except the first three Prizes, are secured the means of disposing of th
immediately after the Drawing, at a cash price equal to ninety percent, of the stated van
clear of all expense, as the Committee have a firm undertaking from a responsible person i
purchase the whole or any of those lots on those terms.
x x
FIRST PRIZE, value £6500. “ Teengulla ” Grazing Farm, Cunnamulla District, Queen
land, consisting of 20,000 acres of splendid sheep country, 25 miles from Cunnamulla, and fenced wh
new six-wire fences all round, and a good four-roomed house, horse yards, large sheep drafting yard .
and 640-acre horse paddock. Bough Creek runs through the centre of this beautiful property for si-
miles, and has an earthen dam and tank at the lower end, whilst the north part of the run may 1
considered permanently watered by a solid masonry overshot dam across the Creek; 7000 Woggo’noi
bred classed Ewes, 1 to 4 years old, will be given in with the property.
SECOND PRIZE, value £5500, consists of “ Kahmoo ” Grazing Farm, 12 miles from Cunne
mulla, 20,000 acres leasehold and 5000 a res reserve, securely fenced. Improvements—house, hors
paddock, drafting yards and 10,000 yard tank, besides natural waterholes. Splendid open salt-busi
country. 7000 mixed Hoggets, all one ear-mark, will be given in with the property.
THIRD PRIZE, value £4500. “ Belingba ” Grazing Farm, situated between the first tw.
prizes. 20,000 acres, fenced with new six-wire fencing, subdivided into two paddocks, beside 900 acn
horse paddock, good house, horse yards, sheep yard, permanent well with double horse-whip
and about 100 yards of iron troughing. Stock consisting of 6000 two, four and six-tooth Wethers wifi
be given in.
The winner of any of these prizes has a compact sheep run in working order, which forms
a comfortable home, aaid ensures a handsome yearly income. The leases have all 26 years to
run, with compensation for improvements at the end of that term, so that they are virtually as
good as a freehold.
PRIZES. —Details and values of remaining 171 prizes are given in Schedule filed u
Society’s office, and consist of valuable freehold properties. If any winner feels dissatisfied with tl,
property allotted to him, a purchaser is available for it in cash at 90 per cent, of the scheduled value.
Conditioxis.
The Drawing will take place at Cunnamulla in the presence of the Committee and Shareholdei
in the following manner, viz. By placing numbered marbles in a revolving barrel together, and thee
draw the 100 Prizes of £5 each. After recording and checking the 100 successful numbers, tie
marbles will be replaced, and another drawing of 50 Prizes, £lO each, will take place in the same way,
and so on with the £5O, £lOO and £lOOO Prizes respectively.
The marbles will then be replaced and the three First Prizes drawn, so that each Ticket has a
chance of winning one of the Grazing Farms and Stock, as well as five other Prizes.
In consequence of the large number of applications for Shares, it has been decided to CLOSE the
Application List on 25th MAY —a month earlier than was originally intended.
If list not filled, the Committee have full power, under terms of purchase and the rules, to
enable them to ensure a distribution, and will modify the Schedule as circumstances may require. The
Committee in making any such modification will protect the interests of the Members of the Society
to the best of their power.
The Government Valuator has valued the First Prize at £3340, and the Second and Third at
£2500 each, exclusive of Stock and Improvements.
The winners of the Grazing Farms will have the Crown parchment leases of the land with signed
transfer handed to them free of all rates, rents, taxes, or other encumbrance up to date.
For shares and all particulars apply to —
GEORGE STORY,
Secretary, Cunnamulla, Queensland.
TO THE COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT OF
The WOGGONOIIABUILDING SOCIETY,
Cun.xiam.ulla., Queensland,
Dear Sirs,
Please allot me .. Shares in the above Society ,
in terms of attached Circular. I enclose for payment £
by§
Dated this day of. 1894.
Name in full
Occupation
A ddress in f ull
§ Specify here if payment is by P. 0.0. or what. Please do not enclose stamps in payment for
Shares. N.B. ; —P. 0.0. preferred, if cheque sent exchange must be added.
When enclosing stamps for reply-postage, if stamps be other than Queensland, do not attach them
to envelopes. Amount of stamps may be added to P. 0.0. or Cheques, etc.
Please note that LIST POSITIVELY CLOSES 25th MAY.
M‘llwraith was the only male presentee at
a recent Windsor drawing-room, among a bevy of
married and unmarried dthutantes.
Lemons, imported from Messina, Italy, at
about sd. per dozen are extensively used by the
main-line of Queensland coastal steamers, and yet
last year thousands of luscious lemons lie rotting
in the Bowen district for want of a market.
Dear Bulletin.—The new-chum—or a
good many of him—is himself responsible for the
amenities which extract a wail from “Common-
wealth.” The creature that arrives here with a
drawl in its mouth, and pimply self-satisfaction
all over it, takes a long time to realise that, instead
of arousing respectful admiration, it is merely
regarded as a more or less deplorable ass. It is
this particular brand of idiot that makes so many
Australians assume every Britisher to be a pre-
tentious snob. Hiric the howl!— Old Chum.
A recent N.S. W. case indirectly calls to
mind a remarkable murder by a boy in a small
reefing district near Dunolly, Mt. Moliagul,
almost 30 years ago. The youngster, a lad of 13,
noted for his cheerful disposition, was so affected
by an intimacy that sprang up between his mother
and a miner living in an adjoining tent, that he
became morose, and spoke to nobody for three
weeks. One day he followed the miner into a
store on the camp, seized a large bacon-knife off
the counter, and drove it clean through the man’s
body, killing him on the spot.
Glory, glory, glory I Guns, guns, guns!
Duncan Gillies, it is cabled, has been “greatly
impressed ” with Krnpp’s gun-factory. The next
cable says that Andrew Clarke, Victorian
Agent-G' neral, is “ gratified ” with something—
Heaven knows about what: we haven’t time to
look.
In the S.M. Herald of April 24 appeared
a paragraph headed “An Incident of the V
bourne Boom,” which was duly credited to g
New Zealand Herald. The' par. in quest
originally appeared in The Bulletin, and tub
Fairfax organ could have had it three weeks
earlier by taking it direct and acknowledging it to
its true source—only its dignity blocked the way.
Bulletin pars are good enough for the Herald to
use, but as it only takes them by mistake at
second or third hand they are pretty stale by the
time the deluded penn’orth gets hold of them.
A new use has been found for “our
esteemed townsman,’’ that person so often men-
tioned by the country editor. Says the Mataura
(M.L.) Ensign : “The trap capsized. . . .
There were ten passengers on board, but most of
them saved themselves by falling on top of our
esteemed townsman, Mr. W. B. Anderson, who
sustained several severe contusions.” The Bul-
letin rejoices with an unholy joy at this incident,
and only regrets that these ten people didn’t
further save themselves by falling on the oldest
inhabitant as well.


ALFA LINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Registered and Guaranteed Cure for the
Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Loss of Memory, Despondency, Irritability, Specks
before the Eyes, Confused Mind and General Constitu-
tional Weakness.
A Powerful and Genuine Herbal Remedy.
Special Powerful Course, 43 6 (posted); Ordinary Course,
23,6; Boxes, 12/-and 6/-
VALUABLB PAMPHLET SENT FREE.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. |3P” Testimonials.
Herr Rassmusaen,
547 George Street, SYDNEY.
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER.
ilsP
SjjVa
SMITH PREMIER TYPEWRITER.
National Cash Registers, Smiths Premier
Typewriters and Typewriter supplies.
FISHER and LINGHAM,
3 Victoria Arcade, Sydney, N.S.W,
The Celebrated Pipe .
G B D
Excels ALL Others.
FIRST PRIZE ALL EXHIBITIONS
Wholesale Depot-
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BROOME’S:MUSIC
Full Music Size, and Guaranteed Correct.
%
f
ƒ
or 13 Copies 3/-
CATALOGUBS
. post free;
No. SONGS.
623. In Honour's Cause (Illustrated).
628. After the Ball (Illustrated).
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in P.
578. „ „ G.
579. „ „ B flat.
585. The Reason Why, in B flat.
.586. „ „ C.
484. Where the Sea Breaks on the Shore
(Illustrated).
567. Diver in E flat (Ulus.). 568 in P
PIANOFORTE.
629. After the Ball Waltz (Illustrated)
621. Search Light Polka (Illustrated).
624. Impudence Schottische (Ulus.)
[Gautier.)
583. Geneva (Graceful Dance), (L
571. March of the Goblins Blue (lively)
527. Old Gold Polka (a very prettypolka)
630. Sprites by Night (just pub ished)
HOWARD & CO.,
QUEEN STREET, WOOLLAHRA,
Sydney, New South Wales.
iim*-
Monty
iiM ONLY
m^Nsivi
IN
HANOJOAE
PURABIC
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
Requires
no
Cooking.
No
added
Milk.
Makes!—
FLESH,
BONE,
BRAIN.
FOR
Infants.
Invalids.
Convalescents.
A PERFECT FOOD.
Instantly prepared by dis-
solving in water.
Made from pure fresh Cows’
Milk, sterilised and combined with
Wheat and Barley, and contains
no starch. It will not curdle nor
sour on the stomach, having been
partially digested by the action of
the Plant Pepsin, prepared by our
special process.
Rabies
thrive when fed on
Horliek’s Malted
Milk. It is next to a healthy
mother’s milk—Nature’s own food
—the best food for a baby. If
either mother or child is not
thriving-, try Horliek’s Malted
Food for both. Ask your Doctor
about it.
Wholesale of
FLLTOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane.
AUSTRALIAN DBUG CO., Ltd, Sydney.
Of all Dealers.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
“LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK,
AND
EVERY
CONCEIVABLE
SHADE,
FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
‘LOUIS’ Velveteen
is essentially a ladies’
material, and surpasses
all Fabrics for the
adornment of women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME FABRIC
Is now in the Front
__ rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine
“LOUIS" Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped
with a guarantee of wear. Ladies should reject all
substitutes.
f
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
wm
SHARPS
ƒ
TANDARD ; NEEDLES.
|/eveh
1^E QU |§r?NDING
w Pleasure
s®sb
KROPP
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUND
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 61,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London, W.
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“I find your
Razors excel-
lent”
uozvu
Herr Rassmussen,
The Oelebrafeed Danish Rerbalisfe'a
Wonderful Discoveries .
r j AWARDED.
TWO GOLD
*lin
m
m
>h
ALFA LINE PILLSf
CURED 100 000 FOR THE BLOOD k NERVES.
Herr EASSMUSSEN,
HEAD LABORATORY:
547 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
It is well-known that Herr Rassmussen, the
Celebrated Danish Herbalist, has devoted most of
his lifetime to the study of preparing excellent
remedies from medical herbs, and the thousands
of Permanent Cures effected by his Alfalinc
Remedies, especially Blood and Nerve Affec-
tions, Rheumatism, Piles, and
Debility and Nervousness
has made the name of Herr Rassmussen familiar
and welcome in every Australian household, and
the general verdict of the Australian public and
press is, that “Herr Rassmussen has, for thelast
ten years, served us well and faithfully, and cured
more sufferers than all others put together, 1 ' and,
considering that he has received ov,er
100,000 Testimonials,
the originals of which may be inspected at his
Head Depot, as well as his Parisian Academy
Diploma and Gold Medals, no sufferer could do
better than to call upon, or send to Herr Rass-
mussen immediately for his free :■
“ Natural Doctor,”
a medical work which gives the complete mode
of self-cure for the most obstinate Blood and
Nervous diseases, and which is sent anywhere
free and unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Nervous Complaints.
Herr Rassmussen has been exceedingly successful
in discovering a real Cure for all Nervous Affec-
tions resulting from Early Follies, Debility, and
known by the following symptoms Specks
before the eyes, giddiness, want of vigour, fullness
after meals, pains in the back, blushing, headache,
without ambition, foul breath, exhaustion, "poor
memory, easily excited, irritable, always tired in
the morning, confused brain, and weak nerves and
spine. Such sufferers should immediately send
for Herr Rassmussen’s world-renewhed Herbal
Nerve Cure, known as the neverfailing
Alfaline Vitality rills,
as they are a guaranteed and permanent cure, and
have been the means of restoring thousands to
Health, Strength, and Vigour.
Those About to Marry,
who suffer from any of the above symptoms,
should immediately take a course of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to enable
them to marry honourably. Should they suffer
from any taint in the blood, or have suffered from
any bad ‘
Skin or Blood Disease,
manifesting themselves in Sores, Blotches, Pimples,
Discharges, Strictures, &c., then it would be
necessary to take a course of his
Alfaline lock Pills,
which absolutely purifies the blood, cleanses the
skin, stops all discharges, and removes all spots
from the skin. Varicocele Powder, 6/-posted.
The Vitality Pills or the Lock Pills are sold as
follows : —Special Powerful Course, 43/6 ; Ordinary
Course, 23/6; Smaller Boxes, 12/- and 6/-; posted
unobserved and duty free. Lock Globulus, Box 6/-.
Rheumatism
cured for ever by taking his Alfaline Rheumatic
Pills. Boxes, 3/-, 6/- and 12/-; Courses, 23/6. ’
Liver and Kidney Affections,
cured completely by taking his Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills. Boxes, 1/6, posted.
Piles
eradicated, both bleeding and blind, external and
internal, by taking either his Alfaline Internal
or External Pile Powders. Packets, 3/- and 6/-.
Send for Pamphlet. Pile Ointment, 1/6 and 2/6.
Female Complaints
cured by his Alfaline Universal Pills. Special
Course, 43/6; Ordinary Course, 23/6; Smaller
Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Complexion Powder, 6/- posted.
Thin People,
wishing to get fat, should send for the Alfaline
Flesh Producing Powder. Packet, 6/- posted.
Fat People,
desiring to become thin (as corpulency is not only
very unhealthy, but also gives a much older
appearance to persons), should send for a 6/-
packet of the Alfaline Fat Reducing Powder.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier
restores the Hair, eradicates Dandruff, and pre-
vents the Hair falling off. Packets, posted 6/-.
<tW All Herb RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL.
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned below.
Correspondence held Strictly Confidential, and
Remedies and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover.
Any ad\ ice desired sent free. These Celebrated and Regis-
tered Herbal Rem dies have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to llaus Itass-
inusseii. Register all letters containing money, Sydney
P. 0., Box 208 —Telephone, 408.
Herr BLassmussen, ,
Chief Head Office,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Intercolonial Branches:
Victoria—lso Bouhke Street. Melbourne;
Queensland—l6o Queen Street, Brisbane:
S. Australia-154-Bundle Street, Adelaide;
N. Zealand—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
W. Australia—St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, PH.D.
A Few Sketches of His Interesting Life and
Work.
Herr Rassmussen, who is known throughout
the world as “The Celebrated Danish Her-
balist,” Was born in the little kingdom of Den-
;ijiark, shortly after its last disastrous war with
Germany. His parents being wealthy, and
belonging to the most influential class, he
received a first-class education, and displayed
exceptional talent in the science of botany and
botanical chemistry, and very soon surpassed
everyone of his fellow scholars in those sub-
jects, and eventually made the science of botany
his life-study.
Finding his native country too small, and its
flora too limited to extend his botanical re-
searches, he left for Australia, and landed here
in the beginning of 1879. His first object was
to learn the English language and become
familiar with the customs and habits of his
adopted country, as well as with its botanical
history and medicinal flora. Herr Rassmussen
had quite his share of the troubles and difficul-
ties which usually befall a newcomer in Aus-
tralia ; but he soon overcame every difficulty,
and after five years’travelling through all the
colonies, investigating every known Australian
medicinal plant, and discovering many new
ones, he eventually settled down permanently
in Sydney in 1883, and then commenced a
most noble mission—that of turning his most
wonderful botanical discoveries to the benefit
and relief of suffering humanity. Herr Rass-
musseir succeeded in this gigantic undertaking
far beyond all expectations, and his name very
si on became a household word, not only in
every Australian camp, village and city, but
also throughout Europe, Africa and America.
Space will not permit to mention the
numerous cures effected by his now world-
famed Alealine Remedies, suffice it to say
that thousands of original testimonials may be
inspected by anyone at his Head Depot, 547
George Street, Sydney, many of which may
also be seen in his celebrated work, “ The
Natural Doctor.”
There is no doubt whatever that Herr Rass-
mussen deserves all the success and praise which
he has met with, because he is a most scientific,
conscientious and genuine herbalist—his last
ten years record being so wonderful that his
remedies must have cured more human'suffering
in that perioff than is usually effected by a
hundred average doctors in a similar number of
years. He does not hold any consultation
similar to a doctor'; his whole business es
purely a Proprietary Herbal Remedy Business.
He simply prepares a genuine herbal remedy
specially for the nerves, and another for the blood,
and so on, which can always be relied upon.
He prints on the box containing the remedy its
price and all advice as to doses and diet and
other particulars, and advertises same, which
is the fairest way possible to conduct a business
of this kind. Any information or particulars
desired are given or sent absolutely free of
charge. Pamphlets are sent post free to any
person desiring one, containing all particulars
and many useful and valuable hints on health.
Herr Rassmussen has very large branches
of his extensive business in Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.),
and throughout the world. He is an
honorary member of several scientific socie-
ties, a gold medalist, diplomee and Hon,
Corr. Mem.. of the Academic Parisienne des
Inventeurs, France ; last year he received the
Honorary University degree of Doctor of
Philosophy ; in 1887, he was presented with a
magnificent gold medal by several of his cured
patrons in Sydney, and also awarded a silver
medal in Denmark, 1888, a bronze medal,
Melbourne, 1893 ; and in 1891 he issued his
“ Natural Doctor,” a herbal medical work of a
high standard for which he received great
praise from the press, and which is now trans-
lated into many languages, ’
The First Rabbits In N.S. Wales.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
About 1861, I bought the well-known Maiden’s
hut and hotel, on the Murray, where Moama
now stands. Having been connected with Cobb
and Co., I started a coach to catch the
night mail at Bendigo, The late Mr. James
Maiden, most genial and experienced of squatters,
resided at Perricoota station, now the property of
Robertson, Wagner and Co., situated about 16
miles below Moama on the N.S.W. side of the
Murray. Maiden, having paid a business visit to
Bendigo, purchased from a seedsman there a case
of rabbits—seven does and a buck—which were
booked by ray coach, the old gentleman anticipat-
ing with glee the sport to be provided by a good
rabbit-warren like those preserved in Great
Britain. He spared no expense in making pre-
parations. Trees were felled and carted, and
every provision made for the comfort and safety
of the new purchase at a spot close to the beautiful
homestead and garden.
After great care on ray part the rabbits were
safely landed at Moama. I then drove to Perri-
coota and delivered the precious case that excited
so much curiosity on the journey. The rabbits at
once felt at heme, feed being plentiful among the
fallen scrub and trees; and woe betide any man
who kept a dog or introduced one on the run.
The rabbits “did splendidly,” as Mr. Maiden
said, approvingly, about a month after ; and, to
my surprise, in less than three months, he drove
up to Moama with a basketful of dead rabbits, the
result of an hour’s sport. He presented me with
three beauties, and I invited some friends to
supper; the attraction being boiled rabbits and
onions, the first ever tasted by any of us in Aus-
tralia. Shortly afterwards these game presents
became numerous, and a large hamper was sent to
me to be delivered in Bendigo to some of Mr.
Maiden’s friends, who appreciated them as some-
thing unprecedented. A long paragraph appeared
in the Bendigo papers reminding readers of
England and its luxuries.
Time went on, and before twelve months several
men and.horses had met with accidents, through
the burrows, 20 miles back on the run, for the
rabbits had multiplied beyond imagination.
Perricoota was then a cattle-station, and horses had
to be used for mustering; so the rabbits’ resorts
near the river were destroyed and thousands were
killed. Even then there was no acknowledgment
of the error made, because the rabbits were so
easily destroyed. At Mathoura station muzzled
ferrets were set to work, and, in five minutes, I
saw 21 rabbits caught. They were carried to
other parts. Instead of being proclaimed a
nuisance, young ones were kept as pets. Soon
after this they were seen at Deniliquin, and the
Edwards river being dry in parts they easily
crossed. They were afterwards seen at Moula-
mein, and thence dispersed themselves in all
directions towards the Murrumbidgee, and so
over the province. And that is how the rabbits
first came to New South Wales.
THE MAN WHO BROUGHT THEM.
The first thing Jabez Balfour asked for
after his arrest was a Bible. The next was a
white collar. How English !
All the rage in Paris, Send 13 penny
stamps for latest Parisian preventative. National
Drug 00., Russell-st., Melbourne.
Riaz Pasha, the Egyptian Prime Minister,
is a Jew. The house of Cohen overshadows the
earth, and the Hebrew is on top everywhere.
“Cannalin,” Sharp’s great discovery for
curing piles, is receiving splendid testimony from
sufferers of many years’ standing. The remedy is
easily manipulated, and consists of two articles —
one the reducing agent, and the other to relieve
pam or irritation. Mr. James Weekes, of Kim-
briki, writes that the Cannalin cured him in three
weeks, after 25 years’ suffering—the last five years
great agony. Two well-known gentlemen cured :
Mr. F. J. Mulholland. of Elong Elong, and Mr.
A. Rendell, of Bingara, both terrible cases, also
add their public testimony. The laboratory is at
257 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. (no agents
having been appointed;,and from here the “Canna-
lin,” with necessary advice, is despatched to all
parts of the colonies.


Publications.
TjBNEY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
Xl and PIANO. "Martha,” "Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia," “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” "Un Ballo in Masohera,” "11 Troya-
tore',” "Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each —Of all Musio-
lellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
NOW UEIM, POST FREE Is. 6d.
The ballet
GIRL: Her Thea-
trical a id Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
India, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians.circus
people, &o. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, port free Is. 6d.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
oe had only of Madame Pasza, Box 913, Q.P.0., Syndey.
FANCY BALLS, Amateur Theatricals, &c.
Character Wigs on HIRE.
A. MICHAU, Theatrical Wig-maker,
78 The Strand (Ist Floor), Sydney, Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon.
iales of the convict system.
«
y
SUNLIGHT SOAP
MISSING WORD COMPETITION.
sr B-vß3srrarq''a attaeeisrt fob -sroTjasTg roLgq
ATTRACT INO
BRIGHTENS
tVERYTH'NO
CflEATES
COMfORT
_ DIRT
Removed
ENCOURAGES
FAMOUSLY
QIVI9
H^fk
feEiGHTCN^
lf^
INDICATES
JOYFULLY
KNOWINQkV
LASSE#
.MERRY
N
NOBODY
OPINt6N
'PUfICHASeD
QVAUTY
REST
surprisingly
TREBLES
Vjfo
ONIVfeRSAULV
VOTED
w#
WOMENS
f
"XCITE3
Y A
ZEALOUSLY
CHE DEAF AND DUMB ALPHABET
An Evening’s Amusement.
Sunlight Soap
Competitions.
200 PRIZES of Watches and Books, VALUE £lO4.
Young People’s Missing Word Competition
DIRECTIONS.-Find the Missing Word under eabh
letter of the Alphabet, beginning with B (letters A, B, C, D
filled in as examples). The prizes will be given to those who
find the most words corresponding to one filled in by Lever
Bros., Ltd., sealed on March Ist, and to be opened in the
presence of witnesses on September 30th.
Cut off the top line of twelve Sunlight Soap wrappers—
that portion containing the heading “Sunlight Soap.” Send
these and the list of names completed, on or before Septem-
ber 30th, to Lever Bros., Lid. 232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Results will he advertised in “ Sydney Morning
Her old ” and “ Daily Telegraph
LIST OF PRIZES.
First Frizes ... Six Beautiful Hunter Pearl Watches,
Value JE4 4s. each.
Ditto ... Six Waltham Watches, value JB4 4s.
each.
Second Frizes... Six Ladies Silver Watches (Girls).
Ditto ... Six Wanderer Watches (Boys)
Third Frizes ... *7 6 Books, value ss. each
Fourth Prizes... 100 Books, value 3s. 6d. each.
TATTERS ALLS
BIRTHDAY OUP.-MAY 24th
BIRTHDAY CUP.—MAY 24th
tS" 50,000 at 5.
tSB" 10,000 at 10.
“ TATTKRSALIi,”
Care of George Adams,
“The Telearraph ” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
Brisbane* Queensland
CIGARS!
SPENCER & CO., MADRAS.
The Largest Cigar Manufacturers in India .
As a Guarantee of the EXCELLENCE of their CIGARS, SPENCER & CO. have—in addition to the Awards gained by their
Manufactures st HABEAS 1891, KIMBERLEY 1892, aud HABEAS 1893-been swarded luipnALS for Best CHEROOTS ’ Eest DII:DIt}UI
IOBAOCO and M LTOKAE TOBACCO at the ANNUAL EXHIBITION of the AGRI- THREE PRIZE MEDAL© HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY, held a.
rUJDAWVV MllU £6B V UWiIAAA —*
VtADRAS on the 24th FEBRUARY. 1894. Any of SPENCER’S TORPEDO CIGAR BRANDS can be obtained from the Sole Agents for N.S. Wales
Amusements.
HSR MAJESTY'S THEATRE
Sole Lessee . Mr. George Bignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS 1 IMMENSE SUCCESS 1
of
“ Tlae Trtng of Crime.”
(By arrangement with W. J. Holloway, Esq.)
INTERPRETED BY A POWERFUL CAST.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(PitUstreet, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough & Boucicault.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING !
until Further Notice,
** Tb.e Bauble Slot -p ”
By Henry Arthur Jones, in 4 acts.
rp O W N HALL.
TUESDAY EVENING, MAY 15.
THE GREATEST MUSICAL EVENT
OF THE YEAR.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF
n.m «=■> Belle Cole’s
ENGLISH CONCERT COMPANY.
THE FINEST CONCERT ORGANISATION
THAT HAS EVER VISITED THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
Box plan at Paling’s.
WM. HUGHES, Business Manager.
Albury missing word competi-
tions. DOUBLE GUESSES—No. 8.
“ Bad as was the crime of Mr. M’Kay’s murder by the
Barraba assassins, their subsequent destruction of the
beautiful and faithful steeds has been characterised by
those acquainted with the facts as an even more
piece of brutality.”
CLOSES THURSDAY, JUNE 14.—Every Competitor
allowed two guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O.
Order, 1/1 if in stamps. No coupons necessary. Add ex-
change to Postal notes other colonies. Total amount (less
10 per cent.) divided amongst successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited, in a sealed envelope,
with Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known Albury Bookseller,
and opened in his presence.
No. 7 Competition, which was of short duration, closed
with 922 guesses. The Missing Word was EARNEST, and
the sentence, when completed, read: —
“ Women are rapidly qualifying themselves for men’s
positions in life. If such a questionable change is desir-
able, what more earnest occupation could be found than
that at present monopolised by Ministers of the Gospel?”
The only successful guessers were—William Bolivar,
Swan-st., Richmond, Vic. ; Harriet Emily Kemp, Ascot
Vale, Essenden; and E. D. Llewellyn, Bairnsdale, Gipps-
land. Dividend, £6 18s. 4d. each. Predominating guesses,
eligible, congenial, apposite, ennobling, etc. Two without
any signature or address, stamped Christchurch, N.Z.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND SADDLERY.
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been bis metto (or the past 28 years. The trade
supplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
RENOWNED PHYSICIANS, and even the
Public are so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S
MA.TICO
that the afflicted need not hesitate to use it,
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young men.
Grimault’s Matico does not cause stricture
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Agents: Elliott Bros., and Australian Drug Co.
niQ SHOOTERS.—Complete set of Reloading and Clean •
-L ing TOOLS, 12 gauge, central fire, containing de-
capper, re-capper, turnover, loader, extractor, powder and
shot measure, cleaning-rod, wire brush, jasr, oiler, &c.,
free by post to any part of Australia for 10s. 6d. stamps or
P. 0.0. A. J. POTTER, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Read this: -Croydon, 23/1/94. Dear Sir,—l received
the set of tools some time since. I have reloaded hun-
dreds of cartridges and found the tools work splendid
and could not wish for better. In fact, lam quite sur-
prised with them for the price. You are welcome to use
this if you wish.—Faithfully yours, SAMUEL STONE,
Croydon, Queensland.
STUART’S POPULAR COMPETITIONS.
No. 27.
In an old newspaper the following passage occurs
"The glorious victories of the Crimea may prove
guarantees for the . .England’s sway, England’s
liberties, and England’s faith.”
Supply the Missing Word, as in original. Tw o guesses
for each 1/- sent. Stamps 1/1. Amount received (less
10 per cent.) for correct word.
CLOSES MAY 26. Result, with name and date of
newspaper, in following issue.
Twenty-six Competitions have been conducted through
the Evening News, and every precaution is taken to
secure absolute fairness.
SYDNEY STUART, Stamp Dealer, SYDNEY.
Mrs. ANNA RUPPERT
The World - renowned
Specialist's SKIN
TONIC cures Freckles,
Moth Patches, Brown
Spots, Sal lowness,
Tan, Blackheads, Ec-
zema, Acne, and
Wrinkles not caused
by facial expression.
It is beneficial also to
the most delicate com-
plexion, as it heightens
natural colour, pre-
vents sunburn, &c.,
and keeps the skin
smooth, clear and fine.
Price per Bottle, 12/6,
or three (usually re-
quired), 32/6. Skin
Soap (once tried, al-
ways tried), 1/3 per
cake. Mrs. Anna Ruppert’s “ Book of Beauty ” forwarded
on receipt of 4d. stamps. Wholesale depot—l 63 Strand,
SYDNEY. Retail Agents—Hatton and Laws, Tasmania ;
Thomason Bros., Brisbane; Wilkinson & Son, Dunedin,
N.Z. ; Beddome & Co., Chemists, 254 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne ; S. Harris, chemist, 78 King-street, Sydney.
CAUTION. Retailers of worthless imitations pur-
porting to be Mrs. RUPPERT’S goods, but not bearing
the address of the Head Office, 89 Regent-street, London,
render themselves liable to prosecution.
TAT OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
JLJ
ƒ
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. EM,IS.
Ewan
BRISBANE CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BIRTHDAY CUP.
10,000 at 2 6
A.J.C. WINTER STAKES.
5000 at 2 6
(BRISBANE)
May 24, 1894.
(BAND WICK)
May 26,1894.
(RANDWICK)
June 9, 1894.
Address “STAB,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE.
CHARLES W f
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
—
~r~
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code: “WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
Colonies. Double and Straight-out.
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups— lo,ooo to 10 to 20.
V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup— s,ooo to 25 to 20.
f
GIVEN AWAY IN 140 PHIZES
Fop Guesses on this Rebus*
Which represents when correctly solved the names of Three Great Military Heroes of European
Celebrity. To the First Five Persona sending correct answer on or before June 30th, 1894, we
will give to each A Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever W atoh, Value £ 10. To each of the
next Ten, a Sterling Silver Lever Watch, Value £S. To each of the next 20 a Nickel Silver
Keyless Watch, Value 25/-. To each of the next 26 a Ladies’ Solid Gold Brooch, Value
20/-. To each of the next 60 a Ladies’ Sterling Silver Brooch, Value 10/-. To each of the last
fiv« correct answers, a Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever Watch, Value £10. To next
& Bowel Regulator ever used. “Star Cough Pills” best Remedy for Coughs, Golds, Influenza
44 star Rheumatic Pills 99 cures Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago. Star Neuralgic
mi. »» /...-.c Monro Twin Tin Dnloroi it. Toothache. These Valuable Gifts are made solely to
ƒ
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The V.R.O. committee is said to be consider-
ing the question of penalties to be carried by D' y
Lcger winners in the Champion Stakes. °n ce “ ore
Bollstin implores these magnates to remember that they
ought to allow for the possibility of a AHy *“ e
A.J.C. and V.R.C. Derby. Under present conditions,
Victory in either event entails a fixed weight for Melb.
Cup, so that in the case of a colt and fill y r “ n^"f ld
Derby dead-heat, and dividing the stakes they would
meet on equal terms in the Cup, instead of at a 61b. diHer
enoe in the young lady’s favour.
• • • •
Adelaide senior football this season confined
to tour clubs, one of which only struggles along. The
others are overcrowded with players,, as the be.t jumors
refuse to play for the weak team, which cannot find_fu nds
to pay their “expenses.” Australian footballers are
nearly^ all straight-out professionals, as these facts prove.
The only remedy—and that not a , cure—-for
football corruption is to inaugurate the hfs’team
any player changing his district so as to change his team
?o conform to a 12-month’s residence law. This would
partly cure the money bidding which annually occurs.
The Vic. permit system, as a remedy, has proved
iut?ly useless owing to the weakness of the club delegates
and their ptoneness to mutual compromise. xou pats
my man and I’ll pass yours.”
* * • *
Sydney Pony Association asks that the A. J.O.
will co-operate in reducing the amount of
But the horse is already stolen I It has long been
a blind man that even in prosperous times every
in the week is far more than the population can reMon-
ably stand. Why more people don t get into gaol under
the circs, is simply marvellous. Now, if there' werei a
genuine desire to check the evil, horse-racing could
be cut down to one meeting per month.
would, of course, receive a severe shook, but it would only
be hastening the collapse which is certain if » h 6 P te ”j
system be continued. Unless some reform be soon agreed
upon gee-ges racing will stink—it stinks now as did
sculling and foot-running and boxing matches, and
thoroughbreds will find their way to the Zoo.
Melbourne Football Club threatens to throw
open its gates to the public free of charge. It would do
much to purify the game if it carried out the bluff.
* * • •
Football in Melb. brings the people out like a
handful of sugar on an ant’s nest. To see the crowds last
Saturday springing from nowhere and trampling in
radiating lines over the grass-grown streets towards the
cricket-grounds would make a stranger imagine that the
bust-up city was booming again.
• * * *
Harry Boyle has refused to accept Williamson
and Musgrove’s oricket-trophy won for him in so question-
Able a manner by a club*raate of his 5 and recommends
the abolition of the prize, which gives free admission for
two to the Princess Theatre for a year, on account of the
individualism and bad feeling it causes.
* * • ♦
Handicapper Dakin distinguishes himself in the
weights for the li mile race at Flemington on 24th inst.,
by making The Admiral give Fortunatus lib. only. For
the six furlong race, Fortunatus has XOst. 51bs., although
he couldn’t win the Newmarket with 9st. lllbs.
* * • ♦
Dear Bulletin,— Re the alleged secresy of
“ Tattersall’s ” sweep drawings. In the May Day Cup
sweep run at Brisbane, two well-known Tamworth men
drew Dan O’Connell and Stafford, and were duly apprised
Of the fact by wire as usual. In less than an hour later
they each received wires from the respective owners,
requesting a “lay off.” Now, this isn't good enough,
and I think a warning note may induce “Tatt." to
stop the Brisbane leak wherever it is.—Yours, Mac.
* » • •
Dooley lays £5O to .£3O that he can beat Tut
Ryan in 20 rounds. He has a great advantage in height,
weight, and ring experience, but it is doubtful whether
he possesses the requisite fierceness. Five and a-half
years ago, just before his second fight with Slavin, he
failed in a somewhat similar contract with Billy M'Carthy.
Dooley is no better now, while Tut at present is superior
to what M'Carthy was then.
* * * »
Dear Bulletin,— Somebody tells you that Melb.
Grammar School is the centre of Victorian school cricket.
Not so. For years past they have been beaten by the
Scotch College, and several times by Wesley College.
The Scotch have an unbeaten record since ’B9, and have
just closed another season by gaining their usual 100 per
cent, average of wins. Sydney school cricket is certainly
bfiow Melbourne’s. —Jim Crow.
* * • •
The Sketch says George Lohmann “has an
idea that Melbourne may be his ultimate borne.”
New* from the seat of war of the interproymcial
eight-oar race looks hopeful for N.S. Wales. Their catch
and finish is said to be better than that of their
opponents, and one of the best judges on the other side
says that although it will probably be a desperate race for
a mile, N.S.W. should about win.
* • * *
Two well-known horses, Froude and Bright-
light, have won galloway races at a “pony ” meeting.
One of these days some of the speedy galloways may turn
the tables by winning Melb. Cup.
• ♦ ♦ *
Despite warmer climate, Queensland has
produced the best Australian peds., and shows a higher
development among the native-born whites.


f
White Spotless Arms
Soft White Hands
Shapely nails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
hair are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
dies when all others and the best skin doctors
fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss or hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
are absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
infant. They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive. They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
CUTICURA
Remedies afford instant relief in the most
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless nails.
jog- “ Alt. about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair ”64 pages, ? oo Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Great .kin Cure,
<oc • Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.: Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medi-
cated toilet soafi and the only preventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause op
most complexionaldisfigurations. Price, 25c.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery
W ■ ■■ * * iJ .nnlinafinn t.n S I). & Co.. SvdnCV.
Delivered.
Just Published, our New Pamphlet of elegant London Specialities, a copy
■i-n UXT.S.'W. and. Queensland (post
of which will be sent post paid on application to S.D. & Co., Sydney.
and duty free) a/t Sydney Prices.
paid
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
Ladies* 18-ot. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2IW.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
Usually
Sold
at ±lO 10s.
No. 525.—Lovers’ Knot and Heart Brooch,
15-ct. Gold, £1 5.
m
illl
SUM
JJSiili
No. 533.—15-ct. Gold Brooch, X Diamond,
2 Pearls, £2 10.
No 611.—Elegant Lucky Bell Broocn, 9-ct.
Gold, 17,6; 15 ot. Gold, £1 10;
Silver, 5 6.
ƒ
Elegant
Heart
and
Lovers*
Knot
Brooch.
15-ot. Gold, Diamond centre, £3.
Whip and Shoe Pin,
15-ct. Gold, 15/6
Silver, 4/6.
No. 228.—Set Links,
9-ct. Gold, 10/6.
Silver, 3/-
Pin and Stud, 15-ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£t n o.
No. 226.—Set Links,
9-ct. Gold, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, 4/6.
Pin and Stud, 16-ct. Gold,
6 Diamonds, 1 Sapphire,
£3 12 6.
15-ct. Gold Loclcet,
Diamond Centre, £2 5.
WATCHES.
The variety, ex-
tent and value of
our superb stock
outrivals the sem-
blance of any com-
parison.
Telescopic
Pencil, 9-ot
Gold, 36/-
SiWer,
10/6.
<r>
ITS
t'Yi
No. 764.—
9-ct. Gold.
Lucky Charm Bell
Bracelet, £1 10.
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet.,
9-ct. Gold, from i 1 15 ; 15-ot. Gold, from £3 5.
For sizes, see Illustrations in Pamphlet.
No. 75(5. ..ucivy Bell Bracelet, 9-Ct. Gold, A.l 10;
5 Bell ditto, £2 ; 3 Bell ditto, silver, 7/6.
No. 759.—Double Heart Bracelet.
15-ct. Gold and 2 Diamonds, 13 10.
No. 106.
Gent’s Albert, 9-ct. Gold, £4 4 ; 15-ct., £tt 1«> ; Silver, 15;0.
No. 107.-Gent’s Albert, 9-ct. Gold, £3 12/6; 15-ct, £5 IT 6; Silver, 13 6.
No. 42.—Ladies’ Ring,
15-ct. Gold, 7 Rubies,
6 Pearls, £1 5.
No. 53.—Electro-Silver
Breakfast Cruet, fine
English Cut Bottles, Spoons,
complete, 81/-
No. 39. —Ladies’ Ring-,
18-ct. Gold, 2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £3 10.
No. 70.—Solid Silver
Napkin Rings, lin. wide.
2in case £1 2 C
4 ditto 8 5 0
No. 32.—Ladies’ Ring,
18-ct. Gold, 1 Diamond,
2 Ru’uies, £2.
No. 25.— Wedding Ring,
Massive 18-ct. Gold, 21/-
18-ct. Keeper, same price.
f
Lovers’ Knot
and New.
9-ct. Gold, 14/0
Silver, 4/6
Lucky Bell
Brooch.
15-ct. Gold,
£ll6
No. 601.—Silver Match Box, 11/6.
Size Smaller, 8/6.
9-ct. Gold, £2 10.
S& i ■:
*
506.-G.H.M.
Diamond Centre
15ct Brooch,
£1 15s.
No. 504.—The “Little Pet’s ” Brooch,
9-ct. Gold, 5/0.
SOVEREIGN
No. 605.—Silver, 9/6. Plain ditto, 8/6.
9-ct. Gold, engraved, £2 10.
PURSE.
No. 531.—Pearl Initial Brnoch, any letter.
9-ct. Gold, 7/6.
* 0T ™ being _« - —• - — - “ f ~ ~ ~ ~*~ ~ ~ ”
IW~ Add to Remittance for Pet and Register; One Article, 6d.; Two, 9d.; Three. Is., Six, Is 6d.
■ 1 . j. IL .. * M.tna nnrl folfP Jl.ll 1'ifllf 1H llikllSlt. j/xdilTCSS
r Aaa to tiemiuance ior ' ' ... ,
We despatch Goode daily, poet paid, at these rate*, and take all risk m transit.
STEWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street,
S-2-JD3STE-ST, 3ST.S.W.
Ananias and Sapphire.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
They were standing in a deep shadow
flnnsr by the wall of the old city graveyard. There
was a church not far off, but they had done with
pushed back his old felt hat and sur-
eutitiously wiped away two big beads of perspira-
tion. Sapphira kept rubbing the third finger of
0 of her little, hard-worked hands because there
something there not yet 10 minutes old. Now
d again she glanced up in a frightened way at
Ananias, and her lips trembled a bit. They were
beautiful lips, too, red and fresh and childish, not
parched and black as you might reasonably have
expected.
Bv-and-by Ananias pulled himself together.
“You needn’t be so ’fraid, Poll,” he said, but
his voice was not as steady as it might have been.
“What’ll we do now?”
“Ain’t we goin’ to have no ’oneymoon? she
said piteously.
He flung his arm round her waist and kissed
her in a burst of rough tenderness, for there were
nnlv a couple of cabmen about.
“ - Course we are, Mrs. Doolan, what d’yer say
to Robinson’s Beach —or Manly—that’s a fine
place, now—or how d’yer like Bondi ?—it’s only a
matter o’ tram-tickets to Bondi.”
But it was a country-bred Sapphira, and Sydney
was a vast and terrifying wilderness to her, s°
Ananias had the selection, and chose Bondi.
“Good Lor’, Polly,” he said, suddenly, in a
frightened whisper.
“What! Oh, Tom !”
“Don’t be a damn fool, Polly,” he said, ten-
derly, and stood upright and unconcerned as his
shaking knees would let him.
There was a policeman at the corner, gazing
thoughtfully in their direction, and the clergyman
who had married them less than half-an-hour
aero was coming down the street, on the other side
of the road ; seeing them, he crossed over.
“ Well, what are you going to do ? Are you in
any difficulty ?” ho asked pleasantly.
“No ” said Tom, “of course not!” He scowled
heavily and stuck his hands deep down in his
pockets. e y OU > r 0 going to take this nice little
wife of yours"for an outing away from these dirty
streets— this must always be a green day in her
memory, you know.”
Tn the church, at the altar-rails, it had not
seemed half so childish a Polly, nor half so boyish
■i Tom. and the clergyman looked from one to the
other in a troubled kind of way and wondered
vaguely if it was all right, after all.
“ Yes ” said Tom. “ Come along, Polly.
Polly’“came along.” She almost ran m her
trembling haste to keep up with Tom s
ranid strides, and the parson was soon left behind.
They walked up to Oxford-street through back
ways and short cuts as much as possible, and
caught a tram there for Bondi.
There was only one thought in poor, little
Sapphira’s head all that long day among the rocks
and limpid, beautiful pools that the crashing waves
disturbed from time to time.
“ Seventeen years and two months,” said the
angry waters as they broke and rushed headlong
up the wide beach. “ Seventeen years—and —two
months,” echoed the thin, timid ebb that ran back
into the wild, clamouring arms outstretched for it.
Two odd-looking rocks not far off made a distinct
17 and another one close beside was shaped like a
two,
Ananias had brought apples and fancy biscuits
and four custard-tarts, bub the hour-old wife
turned away from the wedding-feast with a pale,
miserable, little face and refused to be comforted.
“ It’s done now, Poll, old girl—don’t take on,”
he said, trying to mop up her tears with his shil-
ling silk handkerchief; “ the old people’s three
’undred miles off, and can’t go for us easy— wit’s
the ’arm, old chap, as long as we ain’t found out?”
But Sapphira had a pathetic little religion of
her own that had survived Sunday-school, and her
poor, soft heart was torn in two over her crime.
“ Your lie warn’t so big,” she sobbed, “you’re
gone twenty, and it ain’t m-much ter swear ter
Gawd yer twenty-one, bub I’m only seventeen,”
she buried her damp, little nose in the sky-blue
silk—“and two m-m-months.”
# * *
There was a-knocking at a big lawyer’s
door. They opened it and let in a woman to pri-
vate conference with the chief. Such a queer little
woman with white cheeks and goggle glasses and
an absurd bonnet, looking somehow like her own
daughter badly disguised and tryingtolookelderly.
Three minutes ticked away before her trembling
lips could form the question, “If a girl and hfr
feller sweared ter Gawd _in church they wus
twenty-one and got married, and if they wusn't
quite, what ’ud be like ter happen ter us?”
The chief smiled within his beard and looked
away from the rough little hands twisting to-
gether so nervously. The “us” gave Sapphira
away in one act.
“ It’s a false declaration, you know, in the first
place, and punishable as such,” he said.
“Oh Gawd, oh Gawd,” moaned the little
woman, “an’ what’ll ’appen ter us—l means
them ?”
“ Well, I suppose the man would be liable to
seven years for abduction, and both of them to a
sentence for making a false declaration,” said the
lawyer, “but the Judge might pass a light sen-
tence, thinking the young people were punished
enough by so early a marriage. ”
The little woman looked at him piteously over
the top of her-goggles. “But ’e mightn’t?” she
“Of course. In fact, it would depend on the
manner of Judge and the prosecution.’
The woman was at the door fumbling with the
brass knob. He opened it gently for her, and she
hastened blindly out. Then she came back and
poured some money on the table —ten shillings in
sixpences, threepennies, and coppers, and went
out again. Through the second door and down
the stairs, through the hall, and out into the
g^e g aspe( j ) hurrying along with
wild eyes, and dropping the goggles feebly on the
pavement.
Ananias followed, silent, terrified.
“It’s awfle—oh, Gawd, it’s awfie !’ she _ said,
stopping once and swallowing a terrible sob m her
“ Come on,” he said, pressing forward through
a maze of narrow, ill-smelling lanes and streets,
“Le’s ’ide.”
And they hid. Like outcasts who fear the light
and wanderers who ache for a rest they may nob
come to until the “ old people ” are six feet deep
as well as 300 miles away.
Bufe even when that time Ananias used to
scowl at clergymen, and Sapphira to water with
sorrowful tears the grave of her poor little buried
religion that she had never dared to use again.
ETHEL S. `TURNER.
Interest—The monopolising of oppor-
tunities.
“The open enmity of an absolute king is
less dangerous than the equivocal friendship of
constitutional John Bull.” —Heine.
It is said that the rival brewery lords,
Allsop Hind lip and Baas Burton, each drink the
other fellow’s ale.
Queen Victoria intends to knight the
Great Western Railway official who for 50 years has
personally superintended theroyal engmetoand fro
between London and Windsor. Nothing has ever
been known to go wrong with the tram under this
person’s management, which joyful fact is easily
explained. The line is kept clear for haif-an-hour
before and after Her Gracious begins to travel,
and a pilot-engine runs a mile ahead to guarantee
the safety of the rails. However, let this careful
functionary be promoted to the rank of Matthew
Davies, by all means.


lies! fop the Wearied Soles by trying
33 L L X S*S
(Registered; SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASURED ENT SYSTEM.
~ J(‘ tW Ladles, G cull emeu and CliiUlrvu.
jSSfik A
IWQ PENNY
STAMP
■"for '
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A.Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
REWARE
o}
JEALOUS ,
UN HE I
GISTERED
IMITATORS
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep BE, round heelCC,
round the aqkle DU ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle,-perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended £6, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of iiitrpdupiug his new and simple system into the
country districts wdiere practical boot making is unknown,
has decided £0 supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE TO, ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
No matter tiow farin the interior yoh reside, ELLIS’S
system lias already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents Who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample tre d,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY-r-they ate a “going con-
ceru ” from the start. The materials are w>ell tanned, and
will not “draw” or'blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among pur leading items: Gent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s fid, 15s fid, Ifis fid, X7s fid ;
French Kid,or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office,men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Log, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s fid ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s fid ; FreVihk Calf Cossacks, 14s fid ; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s fid ; Primes! French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very-light), 39s fid, Tops for ditto, I2s fid ; Primes!
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s 6<l (worth P 3 Ids);- French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s fjd; Three-quarter ditto, 26s fid; Half ditto,
23s fid ; also in Stdck, White Hep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
fill; ditto Oxford Shoes, ,11s fid ; Ladies’ and Children's
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies' Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 2,0 s ; ditto E.S,, 16s fid. In stock—
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sew n Evening Shoes, will not rip,
■Ss 9d : Nice Glace, Oxford Shoe," 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s ?d ; white Rep, Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s fid.
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
“I am pleased with the,beautifuUy-finished pair of boots
/<>u sent me ( make-me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
.‘.‘JERSEY,;. Government House, Sydney.”
“Your hoots are the best 1 have ever worn, both for
comfort and durability.
“ FRED. T. BERMAN, Public School, Coonamble.”
“ The boots are a perfect fit, and-heautifully finished.
“A. M'MILLAN, Warri, Coolamon, N.S.W.”
“ There can be no two opinions about Ellis’s Boots,
they are the best we have ever had.
“GEORGE GUEST, seur., Boggabri, N.S.W.”
Hi
7
d/ x
xjyi
Out this Coupon out; for*
ward withy sure-
mentS and remittance, a'nd
the goods will hp mailed
free. •
ONE COUPON wHI
secure any
number of pairs?* 1 *
as desired.
ff^Us
/S°ypoN
'<o (MEASURE
'^msfFßffo/6
. I
KID L eCi
Cv
o\
t>A
V
2 5/- **■
bal,
of
punt c if
i
ur£
TO
se^f
f?ASS
«AA/d CLOSE 0 c
TO STAN OXjJgSm
Hand
'■O
NO
Tic
at u
U/rJS
Tart:
t u/$ 1
ladies^
coupon
hiqh
BALMok„.
KID
KiOLtG
nneCAu
UAMPs
WORTH 25/-
oMEA^Ii
Special Notice ! Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket;, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
g the value of
£lOO One Hundred Pounds! £lOO
Ist Prize, 20 Sorereif/ns; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. t 3: sth, do. £2; 40prizes, value Pleach;
10 do. at 15s. each; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittspice, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Add exchange on Intercolonial Postal
Notes.. v '
T. E. ELL IS,
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
i’' l
Headquarters at George-st., Sydney, Shortly.
E3CWT®c*j
CHAS. ANDERSON,
TAILOR,
30 & 32 Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
ISest Materials. Perfect Pitting.
MODERATE PRICES.
Patterns, Prices & Measurement Forms
ON APPLICATION.
NEWMAN’S ATELIER
FOR
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
314 GEOEGE-STEEET,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
J. Hub ert INewman,
(Late of Oxford-street), Proprietor.
Bodalla Cheese.
O-A/CTTIOZDsT.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODALLA
Bears ilic Registered Brand oi tlic Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent:
JOHN SHEARWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- ELDEIIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK ST lIIIIIT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber's poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &o.
ANTIQUE OIL. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE.
080 A 083 George Street, Sydney.
—THE—
Wentworth Hotel
k
Mm.
mm
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the years you’ve lived. Write. Prof.
HERMANN, French Specialist, 41 Collins Place East,
Melbourne.
<9
Business Announcements.
“Clothed with Air.’*
Cellular Cloth
<Drc66 \Shirt!)
WITH
Linen Fronts & Cuffs.
6/0 & 7/6
Just Opened.
Cellular Cloth Shirts.
French Print Fronts and
Cuffs; 3-stud ; various
patterns—6/6.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents:
David Braham & Co.,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
?«vMSs3avai
—Established —
lIALF-A-CENTURY 1
Smith & (Mannsll,
SilliCT MAKERS.
HOSIERS & MERCERS,
298 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Shirts to Measure or Pattern.
From 50/- Half-Doz.
A 1 WHITE SHIRTS
(Ready-made).
Unequalled for Value from
30/- the Half-Doz.
Instructions for Self-Measure-
ment posted free on applica-
tion.
** A Trial Solicited **
A.. IMCXCJJEai^XT,
Theatrical Wig-maker and Hair-worker to all Sydney
theatres. Amateur Clubs Liberally Treated. Ladies’
Combings made up at 2,6 oz.
78 THE STRAND (Ist Floor), SYDNEY.
v.o.
musty
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
hj
rr fax
Fit every head perfectly the first time they are tried on,
and weighing only 3 to 3\ oz. Are a luxury to wear. The
Registered Trade Mark, as above, is stamped on the tip of
every hat, without which none are genuine,
GS-. XX. Smith & Sons,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
&
John Lawler and Sons,
Wire Mattress & Bedding Manufacturers,
UPHOLSTERERS and CABINETMAKERS,
Importers of
BEDSTEADS—Iron, Brass and Pearl-mounted
English FURNITURE
Austrian CHAIRS—PIain and Fancy Designs
American CHAIRS—PIain & Embossed Designs
Carpets, Linoleums and Floor Cloths
Hearth Rugs, Mats and Matting
Java Kapok, Curled Hair, Fibre and Flax
BAMBOO BLINDS—White, Green and Skin
White Cane Chairs, Lounges, Tables and Settees
TAPESTRIES, Plushes, Hair-seating& Cretonnes
Spring Blind Rollers, Hollands, Cords & Fringes
Cornice Poles. Lace and Tapestry Curtains
OVERM ANTELS —Oak, Walnut and Mahogany
TOILET GLASSES and COMMODES
TOILET SETS in various Colours and Designs
MANGLES
STOVES
JAPANNED TINNED TRUNKS
Warehouse:
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bulk Stores and Steam Factories:
Nos. 8,4, 6, 8 aud 10 UNION LANK.
Telephone, No. 66.] [Established 1860.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)
Lancet.
(THE CEL
jl
S SWEET)
jM
St. John's Works. Loudon. W.C.
BEFORE AFTER
Medical.
MOUSTACHES • IN • A • MONTH
Von Ritter's Celebrated Hair and
Beard Mixture prevents the hair fall-
ingout; positively causes a luxurious
growth on the baldest head, and forces
whiskers and moustache in a few weeks. Recommended
by the faculty, and extensively used by the nobility and
military of Europe. Never failing in effects ; easily ap-
plied, and guaranteed harmless. Thousands of young
men, having used i to 3 packets, already wear whiskers
and moustache ; its rapid action surprising everybody.
Write at once; letters answered by return post. Packets,
as. each, 3 for 55., post paid, sent free from observation’
Address STEPHEN PRINCE & CO., Sole Australian
Agents, Box 565, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W. [Resist'd.
Oriental Female Pills.
Triple power. Restores regularity without fail, no matter
what cause. Sure and safe. Large Box, posted 5s
ORIENTAL VIGOUR PILLS for MEN. Large Box 5 S '
Write W. W. Garfield, 325 West Collins-st., Melbourne.
EAIiTHY WOMEN AND HAPPY
CHILDREN.
The great English Astrologist, Mme. DE RAYMOND
reads your character without a question or mistake, will!
as much ease as if she had known you all her life. R e .
main not in darKness and ignorance, but seek the light
of knowledge, and learn what the future holds forth for
you. Like a meteor flashing across the darkest sky, this
brilliant Astrologist Visits Australia for the First Time to
impart the power, and the hitherto unknown knowledge
w hich will dispel the heavy gloom and bitter woe from
thousands of blighted hearts.
Every mother should know the innate nature of her
child, the planet under which it was born, the un-
developed temper, the unformed habits, the particular
trade or calling it is best adapted for, to what sickness
dictated by the heavenly bodies, it is heir, according
to its nature.
Mme. DE RAYMOND
has been pronounced in Europe and America as the
greatest living wonder of the present age.
If you are sick or in trouble, if you are involved or
unhappy she will make Life Worth Living.
*** 303 CROWN STREET, SURRY-HILLS ***
(opposite Public School). Hours—lo a.m. to 8 p.m.
Parlors Strictly Private. Fee, 2/6 ; Written, 5/-,
If UNABLE to CALL, send DATE of BIRTH.
5"
TESTIMONIALS
-Like the following are constantly arriving
from alt pans of the-wand and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’s
-Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Bead the letters:
From Australia.
Mk. W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul & Co., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
the belt as soon as it is placed on his body, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” _
From America.
Mr. J. W. Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes—“ Tour No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drugstore
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got upas if nothing had happened, the back
troubled me ever since until I tried your belt. Foroneyear
now I have felt as I used to also."
S3-A void all inferior imitations of Dr, Pierce’s Belts,
Call, or write for free descriptive “Pamphlet No. 2,” and
please mention this paper when you address: W. H. Soul & Co.,
158 Pitt St., Sydney; Elliott Bros., Brisbane; or, the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San Erancisco, U. S. A.
QEAF NESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and Perfect Hearing Restored.
Comfortable to wear and invisible. Illustrated
book of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps.
JL 49 ELIZABETH ST., MELB.
]\/| ANHOUD WEAKENED.—From youthful folly,
- LVJ - excesses, or any other cause, Guaranteed Curb.
A Great Scientific Discovery by Anatomy. Treatise on
“Lost Manhood” posted free, sealed. To young men
contemplating marriage, to the married, to young and
old—this book is invaluable, pointing out as it does the
way of relief to those unfortunate sufferers to whom love
is but a hideous, tormenting dream—life a torture—the
future a blank! Every man and youth should read it.
Posted free. Write Prof. HERMANN. French
Specialist, 41 Collins Place, EAST MELBOURNE.
LADIES!!!
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
29 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
Female Pills for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s. per box,
guaranteed O.K.
DR. SPEER
A 52
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorea, &c., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by J. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
FROM COUqS
*—|NTEN MINUTES.^
mmmmm
klaS'A'M
OF HOREHOUND. ,
A SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY FOR
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS, &C.
“Invaluable for Bad Coughs and Colds.”
Mrs. Bason, Sleaford.
Sold by all Chemists in bottles at Is. Ud., and 2s. Od.
Widow Welch’s Pills
FEMALE COMPLAINTS. Mrs. Smithers,
- 1 - Grand-daughter to the Widow Welch, continues to
prepare this celebrated Medicine from the only original
and genuine Family Recipe. Its just celebrity for all
Female Complaints has obtined for it a most extensive,
and increasing demand. aPurchasers should, therefore
attend to the following CAUTION. To be careful that
what they purchase is prepared by Mrs. Smithers, who
is the only person in possession of the Original Recipe.
The genuine are wrapped in Blue Paper, and signed on
the Outside label by Mrs. Smithers, and the names of the
Sole Wholesale Agents, “W, Edwards and Son, 157
Queen Victoria Street,” formerly of 67 St. Paul’s, London,
are engraved on the Government Stamp.
Sold in boxes, at 2s. 9d. each, by most Chemists.
TORONTO HOTEL,
LAKE MACQUARIE.
Terms: 7/- and 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
Access easy. Train direct from Sydney or the
North.
H. A. BRETT, Manager.


w^'
Soap Makers
By Special
HER MAJESTY
The
U
AND
li
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince
mm
Commiserating with a Sydney builder on the
slackness of trade, the writer recently received a shook.
“Not at all. 1 am building wooden and brick cottages
and sell them as fast as they are built. The fact is, I can
sell a new cottage as cheaply as most people can sell old
ones, and buyers, of course, prefer the new. Land is less
than one-half its former price ; bricks I buy at 30s. a 1000
where I used to pay £3, and I can get them laid at Bs.
instead of 14s. to 16s. as formerly ; everything else is pro-
portionally cheap. As to wooden cottages, lam building
four and paying £lO each for the wood-work. Tradesmen
are now ready to work at contracts by which they can
ram by long hours 30s. per week.”
♦ * * *
Certain recent stirrings of the muddy financial
waters reveal, among other things, that the practice of
“faking” bank accounts at balancing-day is a lot more
general than is usually imagined. The process is beauti-
fully simple. The men with vast and hopeless overdrafts
pay in cheques on other banks for immense sums- some-
times their own cheques and sometimes those of other
deadbeats—on the last day of the halt year. These are
credited to their accounts, and their overdrafts are
reduced accordingly ; and next day, which is the begin-
ning of another half-year, they draw out the money to
meet the aforesaid cheques, and the overdrafts go up to
th> ir original dimensions.
These cheques are often quite valueless, bub the
juggle makes the overdrafts look several hundreds of
thousands smaller, and the cash some hundreds of thou-
sands larger, than they really are, for an hour or two, and
misleads the shareholders accordingly. The bank gains
not one solitary copper by the transaction, and it
is done only tor purposes of misrepresentation and
deceit—in other words, it is, in its effect, a
gross fraud and a wilful falsehood. Only it
seems, in the present state of commercial morality,
to be practically impossible to sheet the fraud home to
anybody, for the board and ihe manager always profess
to have not. even the shadow of an idea why their most
hopeless debtors rush in and deposit immense cheques on
balancing day and draw them out again the day after.
The general impression seems to be that they do it for the
sake of a tittle healthy exercise on an empty stomach.
* * * «
A catastrophe has befallen 30 or 40 Continental
firms mainly through a smart Victorian printing on his
letter-headings the imposing “block” of another man’s
building.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
Taking by the forelock the wrath that was to
come, North Shore (Sydney) Steam Ferry Co. has reduced
its fares on the Mosman’s and Neutral Bay routes. The
co-o; erative ferry movement has taught the private com-
panies a severe
A miner writes The Bulletin that plenty good
alluvial is to be got in the Harden (N.S.VV.) district, and
many men could make good wages there were it not for
the prohibitive terms demanded by the land-owners.
Besides rent, some want 25 per cent., some even 50 per
cent., but most won’t let miners go on the land at all.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
If, according to B. R. Wise, the building
socielies which got the heads of so many N.S.W. citizens
gaol-cropped, had tailed after instead of before the banks,
“ I don’t think the directors would have been put on their
trial at all.” Can anything more serious be alleged
against the general administration of law in N.S. Wales?
It logically follows that the men sentenced to from three
to set en years’ hard labour have been martyrs to ignor-
ance or panic, or that there are men now helping the
Government to pass Bank Acts and otherwise sitting at
the head of public affairs who ought to be breaking stones
or nicking oakum in Darlinghurst Gaol.
r -« * * •
Henniker Heaton’s luck stuck to him in the
bank-crisis, for he was clear of his directorship in
that big Sydney Land Co., and it was not his fault
that he was not a director of the A.J.S. Back, for he tried
very hard to be made one.
* * ♦ *
A Bulletin correspondent:— “From the office
of a Mr. Dawson in London no less than three pro-
apectuaea of Weatralian Mining and Exploration Com-
panies proceed—viz.,‘The Weatralia Syndicate,’capital,
£10,000; ‘The Cuthbertaon Exploration Syndicate,*
£BOOO ; and ‘ The West Australian Finance Asaociation,’
£lO,OOO. These are small figures, certainly, compared to
what we have been accustumed to in connection with
Australian mining. But this is not all, for Mr. Dawson
wants also the ‘ West Australian Agency;’ the ‘Western
Australian Minerals and Land Company;’ the ‘Black
Ball Pearling Company;’ and another the name of
which I forget. But does any one know of any of these
companies or their prospects ? ”
» * * *
Spurious florins flying about in Adelaide. If
silver falls much lower, the base metal will be worth as
much as the real article.
* ♦ ♦ *
There is a flourish in Sydney papers over a few
local firms partly reinstating employes’ salaries—
retrenched so drastically over a year ago. But how
“ mum ” those papers were when the “ docking ” began 1
* * * *
Mr. Cork, London manager of the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney, lately read a paper on the
“Recent Banking Crisis in Australia,” before the
Institute of Bankers. Cork blames what he called
“the disgraceful cowardice" of the shareholders of the
English and Scottish and the London Chartered Banks
for all the trouble. Mr. Cork, of course, held a brief for
his own bank, and sought to differentiate between the
Commercial and other banks which were compelled to
reconstruct. This has given offence in some influential
quarters.
The disappointing part of Mr. Cork’s paper,
remarks The Bulletin’s London correspondent, is that he
offers no suggestions as to how a good state of affairs in
Australian banking is to be brought about. He told us
nothing new, and when he sat down none of us were a bit
wiser for all he had read. In this respect he is much
behind his protegfe, Mr. Peel.
* * * *
The Northern Territory paper relates the case
of a Chinaman who, some time ago, assigned his estate
paying his creditors 2d. in the £. It subsequently tran-
spired that he had at the same time carefully sent away
£4OOO to China.
* * • ♦
If Ooolgardie has done naught else it has given
a fillip to the fine art of prospectus-writing. A sample:
The leader of a proposed expedition is, we are told, an
expert bushman, because he has had a long career as
engineer and explorer on the Govt, railway lines of N.S.
Wales. “He will be supplied with astronomical instru-
ments to enable him to fix by solar observations ihe
course of the expedition, and guide it through the track-
less area under exploration.” The gentleman who drew
up this prospectus may understand navigating a ship,
but he does not seem aware that on land “ explorers ”
have to be content with stellar observations for latitude,
and work their longitude by dead reckoning. If the
promoters of this enterprise have found out a way of
carrying a chronometer safely overland without its going
out of order they have done more than anyone has before
them.
Also, as this doughty party intends to pass into
a vast tract of country “yet unpenetrated by white men,”
readers will be glad to hear that the services of an officer
recently of “The Prince of Wales Own ” (!) haye been
secured as “transport officer” (not transit commissioner,
mind you.) In conclusion: “It is confidently felt that
gold mines will be found that will surpass any discoveries
hitherto made.” If the party run out of everything
else they will at least have plenty of brass left.
* • • •
“A master butcher” complains in a letter to
Newcastle (N.S. W.) Herald that he can get no applications
in answer to repeated advts. for first-class butchers
although he pays top wages and his men dine at the same
table as himself. The butcher, take him all-round, is the
best organised, the best paid, most constantly employed
and the sleekest manual worker in Australia.
• * * *
One of the interesting things about the N.Z.
Loan and Mercantile business is the judicious manner in
which certain people in the inner circle got out and the
equally judicious manner in which certain other people
were left in. The people who got out wdre those who
talked loudest about the wonderful prosperity of the insti-
tution, and the people who were left in were those who
believed them. It was ever thus.
* * * *
One biginstitution, which wentbrokeayearortwo
ago, is putting up a remai kable record. There are several
liquidators and ope of them has a son-in-law who is also
his partner. The son-in-law acts as agent to collect rents
and so forth for the defunct society, on the usual cominis-
sion. The society has been absolutely remorseless in
appointed trustee in his ( state. Most of the estates have
only yielded enough to pay legal expenses and the son-in-
law’s commission, so Ihe society doesn’t gain anything
worth mentioning, but it is a good thing for the son-in-
law. The society’s properties have been carefully
valued by the aforesaid son-in law, and various atti mpts
have been made, without much success, to dispose of some
of them hy auction. The son-in-law acted as auctioneer,
Altogether the son-in-law is having a good time of it.
AT -n *A ■1 a A * A * u
Mr. Frederick Sargood announced, at the recent
meeting of the collapsed Freehold Investment and Bank-
ing Co. (Melh.), which institution it is proposed to re-
construct on an entirely new basis, that shares in the
reconstructed venture wouldn’t lie vvorih the paper they
were prinied on. The Bulletin demonstrated the same
thing several weeks ago. When a man owes £l, and lias
only 2s. to pay iL with, he doesn t improve things much
by issuing to himself scrip for the 18s. he is short, said
scrip being signed by hims-lf, and further guaranteed
by his own 5 per cent, debenture issued hy him-
self to himself, and deposited with himself as col-
lateral security. And that is just about what the
Freehold Investment Co.’s resurrection schi me amounts
to. The rest of the business at tin l meeting con-
sisted in a proposal to reduce the liquidators’ salarn s
from £B5O to £4OO a year each, whereli (ion the liquidators,
in effect, announced that they would sue the meet! g
hanged first.
. . * „ , , ,
An Australian G.F.O. .Savings Bank boasts a
depositor with a credit-balance of £14,000. By the rules
he draws interest on £2OO only, so that the Government
have charge of £13,800 for which they pay no interest.
This is funny, but the funniest part of it is that this
capitalist comes of the race who have made ibe term,
“shixty per shent.,” a household word. Another depositor
in the same bank has £7OOO there. The pur could surely
do better in 4 per cent. Govt, bonds, which execuiors
with trust money to invest will buy for cash - e-pecially if
you give them a commission of i per cent, for their ser.
vices in helping you to get coin for your debentures.
* * * *
The “ Federal Institute of Accountants ” (what-
ever that may he), with an office in Melbourne,
is circularising the accountants of Austral a, re-
questing them to become members. An impressive
document sets forth that the object of the Institute is to
“ bring together all the duly-qualified accountants in the
different colonies to whom diplomas will be issued and
signed by the president and secretary.” The - fee is
£i Is., and the prospective member is anxiously requested
to “add exchange.” How the accountants can be
“ brought together ” in Melbourne, geejnr that they are
scattered all over Australasia, and what good the bringing
diploma vt'hicb, apparently, anybody can get who likes to
pay for it, are things b ft unexplained.
* * * *
The last of S.M. Herald’s special Westralian
letters—attributed to ex-Q. Minister of Mines Hodukinson
—tells the story of the Pilbarra Dodger, a record nugget
of 2980 z. Smith and Jones had pegged out adjacent
claims with a few yards of spare ground. beUxmn thein.
Smith got good prospects and told Jones, who nnm ■-
diately shifted his pegs close up to Smith’s. By this
move he didn’t gain anything particular and lost the
Dodger, which was lying snugly at the other end of ins
original strip, awaiting annexation by Brown, who came
along and rejoiced, while Jones cursed the day be was
born Hodgkinson calls Jones ‘ covetous ; The Bulle-
tin thinks he had mighty ha.d luck.
Take care of the pence and reconstruction will
take care of the pounds
What Puzzled Balladune.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Strangers were uncommon in Bui lad tine, a small
township in Western Queensland, though. 9 nce
upon a time the residents had indulged in hopeful
visions of a railway, uhd locdmotiV'es-dragging
thither long trains of carriages'full hf opulenti»B-
- with much money to spend. Of course
this prospective railway was not to go,past
dune, which was to remain for ever the terminus,
and wax fat in consequence. But theso -fond
hopes were horn but to die young. Trade, some-
how, drifted: furtlmr away, and the coming rail-
way never came. Those who had speculatively
invested in town lots were unable to realise, and
Balladune settled down, discontentedly eriohgh,
SrillU'e Hi
to stagnation and a weekly coach. s: . “
Balladuuc, therefore, presented no attractions
for strangers to visit it. Attempts had indeed
been made, on more than one occasion, to institute
half-yearly races and a pastoral show, but they
came to nothing. The coach-fares, even- kept
away any poor players who might otherwise have
sought to rake in a scanty hay-crop in the. back-
blocks, and the arrival of the said coach was' the
one local distraction. ’ /
It was therefore with mingled surprise and
admiration that the inhabitants, who systematic-
ally turned out in force on these occasions; sdiw a
stout, pleasant-faced, well-dreSsed gentletnau
alight from the box-seat, ;, .
The coachman, upon being at opqe interviewed,
stated that be believed the passenger had GGme up
by train to Mount Bastion, the hated rival;town
which had cut them out with the railway; ‘and
that, so far as he was concerned, .he found’him a
thundering good so.t, and he,, wished: ho,always
had one of the same brand on the box with him.
Of the stranger’s business—he knew absolutely
nothing. ' i
It was generally felt that the coachman ; had
failed disgracefully in his duty, but as he,was too
important a personage to offend, nobody toldlhim
io. It was also considered that the setiiorcon-
stabie, who had charge of the peace elf the town-
ship, should keep a strict eye upon the stranger,
as in these days of levanting financial,
there was no knowing where ope might turn up.
When, however, the puundkeeper suggested ; :that
in that case a man of noticeable presence would
seek a crowded place where lie would not l.e an
object of popular interest, public qpjnipn- veered
somewhat, and it was agreed that ,(a : general
election being then pending) the strangerwas
going to run for a seat.
Meanwhile the gentleman under discussion,
who gave the hotel-keeper the somewhat ?well-
known name of John Smith, did nothing to
indicate a desire to represent the district or,-Other-
wise throw light upon the burning questidh of
the day. What had brought him to Balladune?
He chatted affably on the weather, the diet and
the fall in silver, but not one word escaped by
which he could bo “ placed.” In. appearance he
was equally non-committal. hay.e^been


Pure. Economical. Refreshing.
“The Typical Cocoa of English
Manufacture—Absolutely Pure.**
—The Analyst .
“We have examined the^ samples
brought under our notice and find
that they are genuine, and that the
Cocoa Essence is just what it is de-
f
dared to be by Cadbury Brothers.’*
—Lancet.
NO CHEMICALS USED
(As in many of the so-called Pure Foreign Cocoas).
i
m
m
/>,
'A
I
m
s.
Wi
m
'/A
m
m
m
r m
7JC
0
CocO^
£
anybody, from a retired publican to an ex*
Governor.
Mr, Smith made but little use of the telegraph
during his stay. Possibly he laboured under the
absurd, though common, delusion that telegrams
in a small township soon become public property;
anyhow, he did not utilise the wire, but on the
return mail after his arrival despatched a bulky,
sealed epistle, duly registered, which, on being
eagerly scrutinised by the postmistress, was found
to bear the simply maddening address, “John
Smith, Esq., Box 009, G.P.0., Sydney.”
“I could have smacked his face,” said the dis-
appointed lady to an equally curious and dis-
appointed friend who agreed that “it was a shame
and should not be allowed ; for her part she did
not believe that there were two John Smiths in
Australia,” ... .
Meantime, as Mr. Smith paid his bill and simply
smoked, read and chatted about the season in a
most exemplary manner, the landlord of the Royal
Hotel resented any impertinent prying, fearing it
might annoy his guest and lose him that rare bird
of passage, a profitable customer. Mr. Smith,
therefore, was, or pretended to be, in ignorance of
the burning curiosity he had aroused in the minds
of the Balladune gossips.
11.
Fifteen miles from Balladune was one of the
few stations which assisted to prevent the utter
abandonment of that struggling township. It
was not a large and flourishing station with
artesian water, shearing-machines, a big overdraft,
and all the proper equipments of high-class
grazing. The owner had worked hard on it him-
self ever since the district was first settled. He
had experienced bad and good times, had suffered
from drought and flood, had hung on through all
with the grim pertinacity of his nature, and now,
in spite of the fallen value of stock and stations,
was still clear of debt.
He was a gaunt and grizzled man, by name
Hemmings. A man who neither spared himself
nor his men. The wandering swagman met with
but a snarling reception, and his dole of begrudged
rations was thrown to him with contempt. As
Hemmings’ neighbours were treated with little
more hospitality, the owner of Red Dyke was by
no means popular.
Still, in a certain way, he was much respected.
He dealt for his stores locally, and spent what
little he did spend in the district. He was
scrupulously honest, and, above all, his word, for
good or evil, was inviolable. So far as was known,
he had neither friends nor relations. Imagine,
then, the surprise of the inhabitants of Balladune
when he drove.into the township, pulled up at the
Royal, and demanded to see the mysterious Mr.
Smith. . , , , . ,
When the two met it was noticed that, although
Mr. Smith was beamingly genial in his greeting,
Hemmings did not reciprocate. But this was
according to his well-known disposition.
“ We cannot say all we have to say here, with-
out having some long-eared gaby on his knees at
the keyhole; you had better come out to my place
and stop the night,” said the visitor.
Mr. Smith nodded a cheery assent, then slowly
drew his finger and thumb round his throat, and,
with a waggish smile, remarked, “It is safe, I
presume?”
The other scowled silently and strode out to his
buggy. Smith went up to his room and in less
than a minute descended, joined him, and they
drove off.
Everyone who had the price of a drink on him
went into the bar to discuss the event, still mere
strange than even the coming of Mr. Smith him-
self.
“Mark my words,” said the poundkeeper, who
professed to have made a study of human nature,
“ there’s no love lost on the side of that Hem-
mings, and it licks me what a simple, affable chap
like Smith can have to do with him.”
“I’ve got it,” said the storekeeper, smiting the
counter. “That’s a deep cove, that Smith, for all
he s a good-natured one. He s a detective, that s
what he is, and he’s just gone out to Red Dyke
to take Hemmmgs quietly without any scandal.
When he went upstairs, ” he added, in impressive
tones, “ it was to slip the handcuffs in his pocket.”
Everyone finished his drink in solemn silence,
the idea was so novel and entrancing,
“Wonder what he’s done?” said one open-
mouthed lounger at last.
“ You may be bound,” went on the storekeeper,
encouraged by his success, “that it was done
years and years ago, most likely in some other
country.”
This was delightful. Why, it might be another
Deeming tracked down.
“He sent a note out to Red Dyke yesterday,
said the landlord.
“ And you never told us !” cried a reproachful
chorus.
“ Come,” said the poundkeeper, who had been
silenced for a while. “Ifhe is a detective which
J don’t say he ain’t, would he have sent out a note
to tell Hemmmgs he was here? ’
This was beyond the reasoning powers of the
conclave, and even the storekeeper left the ques-
t’oll unanswered,
The two men in the buggy were silent for some
time. After leaving the township the road passed
for some miles through a dark and barren scrub,
Smith uttered the first remark :
“ I was unexpected, I presume?”
“ I have never left off expecting you.”
“ I suppose if a body were deposited a mile or
two back in this scrub ”
“Before it was found it would be unrecogms-
able, and put down to some foot-traveller who had
lost himself and died of thirst.”
“Ah ! So much better than burying.”
“ Quite true,” replied the other, who seemed to
force himself by strong effort to answer coolly the
gibing remarks of his companion,
“ Burying is clumsy, but you have not come
here to discuss such questions ?”
“ I have not. I have come to claim the fulfil-
ment of your word. ’ . .
“After twenty years? ’ asked Hemmings, in a
firm tone.
“After twenty years, repeated Smith, in a
tone as h rm *
There was silence once more, and, in a short
while, the buggy emerged on a track of open
country, grateful to the eye after the close scrub,
“Supposing we defer further conversation until
we reach home—at least, what I now call home?
I will fulfil my word.”
The other nodded, and not a word more was
uttered until the station was reached.
There was little to recommend the place to any
one with an eye to comfort or beauty, for the
buildings were rude, and Hemmings, in his love
of loneliness, had built his own house at some
distance from the others ; but an expert would
at once have recognised the value of the grazing
country. Hemmings drove up to an outhouse and
they dismounted and walked up. When they
stood on the verandah, Smith, all whose geniality
had departed, turned and looked round.
“ You have been alone here for ?”
“I have been here fifteen years. Alone —for
thirteen.”
“Mrs.—ah—Hemmings then?”
“Lies buried there. The rough life and climate
killed her.”
“The property is unencumbered, I under-
stand ?”
“ The property, such as it is, is unencumbered.
Listen ! I have gone through such hardships on
this place, have fought against famine and the
elements so fiercely, knowing all the while that at
any time the summons from you might come;
that I tell you I love it, by the very memory of
my sufferings.” His voice, which had not faltered
when he spoke of the death of the woman who
should have been, but was not, his wife, trembled
at the remembrance of his years of toil.
“I give you your choice. You demand the
fulfilment of my vow. I will mortgage this place
to the hilt, and work it free once more with this ”
—and he held forth his brown and sinewy hand —
“ or take a change of clothes and a blanket and
leave you here, to wander forth in the world. I
ask you but one favour, Farrars, give me your
answer quickly.”
The other kept silence for a few moments; then,
as if to change the subject, said :
“My name is Smith, just now, as yours is now
Hemmings. I will give you my answer early
to-morrow morning. Meanwhile—not that I mis-
trust you, in spite of all—l may mention that
yesterday I posted to a safe hand a notification of
my presence here, and my motive in coming. It
will be read if a fortnight elapses without hearing
from me, so that, even if you deposit my body
in that convenient scrub, I shall soon be missed.”
The other waved his hand as though the idea
was too contemptuous for serious discussion ; then
he motioned his unwelcome guest inside and
showed him to a rudely-furnished bedroom. “My
accommodation is but limited,” he remarked,
“ but as you come of your own accord you must
be content with it.”
“I shall be satisfied, "returned Smith. “I have
fared worse since the smash.”
“ You are then ruined ? ”
“ Or I should not be here.”
“ I had thought better of you. If your coming
had been only inspired by the desire for just
vengeance I could have understood it; as it is I
must despise the feeling to which you confess.”
“I intend to combine business and —pleasure,”
was the calm reply.
It was midnight before Smith, who had retired
early, fell into a troubled sleep on his hard bed
almost immediately to awake again. Someone
moving in the house had aroused him. In spite
of his protestations of confidence his hand stole
under his pillow. He listened, and the sound he
heard made him arise noiselessly and steal on to
the verandah.
In the brilliant moonlight stood Hemmings
gazing out on the familiar scene, the rugged out-
lines of which not even the silver rays could soften
or beautify. But it was his. He had come there
when the land was a wilderness, had seen the
country alter and become fruitful under his care.
He had defied sickness, the brazen sky and the
devastating storm to dispossess him. It had been
to him a refuge from the past and his fellow men.
Smith watched the tall, lean figure shaken with
emotion, then he spoke sternly :
“Walters—for I will call you by your own
name—l came here only on an errand of vengeance,
to turn you forth naked. lam not a ruined man.
Let me speak,” for the other would have inter-
rupted. “ Nearly 20 years ago you stole my wife
from me. You made a fatal mistake. You
allowed her, or she did it without your knowledge
to take both money and jewels in her flight. I
could have cast you into prison branded as a thief.
But you know, and I admit, that in the encounter
betw’een us you spared my life. Then you swore
that at any future time when I demanded it you
would strip yourself of all your possessions and
give them up to me in tenfold payment of that of
which I had been robbed. I knew your character
knew you would keep the vow, although a poor
man when you made it, and I thought that it
would be sweet vengeance to come unexpectedly
upon you and demand fulfilment. I have come
and what have I found ? One sleeps beneath that
mound under a name she has no right to—dead, I
doubt not, of the remorse which would be stimu-
lated by your solitary life in this waste. You, the
other one, a younger man than I, look ten years
older. You have not a friend in the world; here
you will live and die without a companion but
those whose services you hire. lam amply
revenged. Keep your lonely acres out here. I
give you back your promise.”
He paused., The dark figure against the moon-
lit sky said nothing, but put its hands up to it*
face.
“To-morrow morning,” went on the other
quietly relapsing into his natural tone, “ send a
man to drive me into the township, for you and I
must never look on each other again.” He turned
and re-entered his room.
The Balladune people have never yet accounted
for the visit of Mr. Smith.
BINGHL.
Cholera raging in pious, filthy Portugal.
“The wise become as the unwise, in the
enchanted chamber of Power.”
“ Can ye lend me an empty barrel full of
tar to make a hencoop for me dog?”—Mokiarty.
We must deal kindly with the eccentrici-
ties of genius, and remember that the very ardour
and enthusiasm of temperament which makes
the author delightful often leads the man astray.—
Thackeray.
Hordern Bros., Pitt-street, are showing
some really good value in blankets, and the follow-
ing price-list speaks for itself : —For single beds
3/11, 6/6, 8/6, 10/9, 12/6; for double beds, 10/ll’
12/6, 15/6, 16/6, 18/6, and one sovereign each, etc!
Any of the above are sent postage or trainage pre-
paid, thus enabling the country customers to
purchase at the same price as their city friends.
Address your ordersHordern Bros., Pitt-street,
Sydney. (Don’t catch cold.)
A well-known magistrate, recently de-
ceased, was in the habit of going upon a great
periodical “tear.” One night he and a friend
had a very copious drunk together, and as they
were yelling in the street after_ the festivity, a
policeman came along. Recognising the magis-
trate, he was about to sheer off, when that func-
tionary beckoned him with an unsteady hand, and
calmly gave his friend in charge for being drunk
and disorderly. Next morning the friend was
brought up before his late companion in intoxica-
tion, who sternly admonished him concerning the
inadvisability of making a beast of himself in
public places, and fined him £l. Then the
prisoner sent up a note to the bench : “Dear ,
you were drunk yourself. Isn’t =£l rather high.”
Promptly another note came back : “ Dear ,
you were caught; I wasn’t -£1 is very cheap
under the circumstances.”


“ Men I Have Smiled With.”
w
T E STAY at JES rutdn’a,
NHnaT:j[ioo
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise..
VICTpRIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Fajulv and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-put
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily! Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
MOSS VALE.
mOODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
(ST Station) is where we always stay.
QUIRINDI.
O’HALLORAN’S TERMINUS HOTEL
Is Tip - Top.
ARM ID ALE.
Make ho. Mistake, and STAY at
Mrs. P. Wade’s
TATTERS ALL’S HOTEL,
The Traveller’s HOME in New England.
'WEST MAITLAND.' •
you can’t beat Fry’s Grand Central Hotel
for position.
Sennessy’s Queen’s Motel,
S ' TOOWOOMBA.
Acknowledged to be the FIRST HOTEL in
Queensland, and patronised by their Excellencies
the Governors of Queensland (Sir H. Norman),
and of N.S. Wales (Lord Jersey).
Blue Mountain Hotel,
Near TOOWOOMBA,
To Meet the Times, the Prices in this POPULAR
SANATORIUM have been Reduced 'to 42/- pet
Week. FREE use of Buggies and Billiards.
Every Comfort as Usual. Conveyance meets
trains at Harlaxton on receipt of Letter.
E. EVBRINGHAM, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW.
THE CLUB HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA.
( Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL -in
Queensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
ti aih. Private Suites. George A. Godsall.
Take VESPER’S COACHES;
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
GUNNED AH.
CURLEY’S “ROYAL”
Is The Australia of the North-West.
T. CURLEY, Proprietor, and Patentee of
Volcanic Soda Machines.
MUSWBLLBROOK.
Hullo, here we are, let’s stay at JIM GREEN’S
Hotel.
NEWCASTLE.
Why men don’t marry? Because they find a
LUXURIOUS HOME
at
Connolly’s Grand Hotel.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney.
< 4 rjl ALES of the CON VICT SYSTEM.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING. .
Posted to any Australasian Address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Put Stjskkt, Sydney. -
n:
Medical.
fl Descriptive Treatise,
which every Weak, Nervous and
Debilitated Man should read. Sent
Sealed, 4 Stamps,
No Stomach Drugging.
Thousands have proved the efficacy,
of,Urethral Treatment Consulta-
. lion and dinsriiosisT’-uo. ■'diffidence
Ilute (hires punr.-ted CURED.
GEORGE WALSH.
**5S 131 Oollms street, Melbourne. tssl
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 14.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—winch
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
•The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Thursday, 31st
May, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince,'; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN’' NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd./
The Bulletin’s ’’ Missing Word Competition Coupon.—So. If.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing, word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, in time to be received by Thursday, 31st May, 1801.
Disunion mentis defeat. The N.S.W. Labour-members of Parliament, having tasted
the sweets of power, are naturally loth to relax their grip; while, just as naturally, many
jealous, aggressive and ambitious members of the Labour Electoral League Council, a seat on
which js the half-way stage to a Labour-metpbership, absolutely hunger for office, and act
accordingly. , Hence the present condition of the party. The Bulletin attri-
butes much of the present disunion, to the, fact that, in the Electoral League. Council are
many avowed candidates for Parliament,' who* in the ordinary course of human nature,
fight “ for their own hand.” As no, man can be a competent judge in his own cause, the
presence at Council Board of Parliamentary candidates is a fatal defect in the
Council’s constitution.
Name "' " ' ' f
A ddress
Missing Word . . • • ; ; ■
-The person who- fills in correctly the missing* word will promptly yet a cheque for the-total amount
received^ no deduction whatever being made. -Should there "be more than one successful competitor, •
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst Such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness; and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
PARKE & LACY CO.U d
..... i
Mining and Hydraulic Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
INGERBOLL ROOK DRILLS and AIR COMPRESSORS, KNOWLES’ PUMPS,
GATES and DODGE ROCKB REARERS,
HUNTINGDON MILLS, STAMPER BATTERIES,
CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS, PRUE MANNERS, COOKE AMALGAMATORS.
ENGINE FITTINGS, MILL SUPPLIES, Etc., Etc.
Reauced. Prices.
Challenge Ore Feeders, £35.
BE2SSSCaC2SBaffI!
Erne Yanner Belts, £25.
“A GOLDEN SHANTY.’
Second Edition] Price: One Shilling. [All Newsagents.
5
«
Bulletin ” Series, 3\To. 3.
66
The Last of Six
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST F AVENG.
#
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewood .
of tlics Press s
“ The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a r ,sr Th
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives iu iho fa’
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter and for those who
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”—S.M. Herald, July 8, 181)3. who aie fond of
“No writer has given the world a more vivid descr
he
He, ... . ,
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain.”—Sydney Mail, July 8, 1803,
of
of
ices
tale of cannibalism, treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous, but uddoh Mr Favencma
thrilling interest. ‘ The Haunt of the .linkarras* suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, but is itself’relieved from th
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesque.-5© of conception, in which Mr. Favenc here and tli re approaches Poe Ti
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘ Spirit Led, which the great American might have written. ‘A Cup of Old Water is nerham th
best tale in a collection that should be widely read, and Which forms a worthy addition to .purely Australian literature. Daily Tkifcrapw
July 15, 1893. ‘ ’ '’■’ uu .
‘“The Last of Six;’ and other sto-ies. By E-nest Favenc. (Sydney: The Bulletin Newspaper Co > This is a collection of <, hnrt w
graphic sketches by Mr. lavepc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legonda-y loro. Ml tl, e smrios here arc good
and we can hea-lily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection. The
Bulletin scries of Australian reminiscences.”— Australian’ Star, July 15, 1893.
ro.unL issue forms the third of The
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT —
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Sole AXaziufacturer
OP THE
CELEBRATED
“LION"
V*
J s
trade map*
BRAND
Co nfe c ti o nery .
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
The IMPERIAL HOTEL,
s'xrmsr^Esir
(Established over Thirty Years).
The most Homely, Comfortable and Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tariff, 10s. (id. per Day.
WALTER SIDNEY, Manager.
Scale or Advertising
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ...
Quarterly Contracts ...
Half Yearly ~
One Year „ ...
Paragraph Advertisements
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount. ■
20 ~ ~ M
25 ~ ~ »
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An extra DISCOUNT of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
(
TALES
—OF THE—
SYSTEM.
♦
By “Price Waning
Fries: Is. |itr Pest, Is. 31.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever sifnated, will greatly oblige by
infornrhuj the Managing Director of
any Locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD and ICE COMPANY (Limited)
FOR
BUTTER
In One .Pound or Half-pound Fata
The CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured by this Co. is unequalled in Australasia. Brand—“ GOLDEN STAR.”
The Awards at the recent Royal Agricultural Show (21st March) were for:
BUTTER (N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.)— First Prize for ONE CASE, not less than 50lb. weight, for Export.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd. — First Prize for CEEAMERY BUTTER manufactured for local consumption.
Tire PEIZE for HBu-tter
Thus the S.M. Herald of 22nd March : “ The principal feature of this year’s Show of these products was the excellent quality of this butter.”
Butter forwarded to all parts of City, Suburbs & Country
Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney. H, BATESON, Manager.
3*-
wm
i
W*\sB|
■■
,tSWg
:• ij-.
V''
3H&
~i<sS9*s!rr^.
i£ ■»,■
; jiw.v
LADIES ! The above is a faithful representation of
MARK TOY’S
£4l7s. 61 Bedroom Suite
WELL AND FAITHFULLY MADE IN CLEAR KAURI PINE.
Foy has other Suites at
£6 19s. 6d.
£7 7s.
£l2 10s.
£l5 15s
Increasing in Beauty, Durability, Quality and Quantity,
ACCORDING TO PRICE.
But all are Good,
in Furniture, Bedsteads, Bedding, Carpets or Matting, there is an
earnest endeavour to excel at
MARK BOY’S,
OXFORD STREET (Hyde Park), SYDNEY.
GROSVBNOR HOTEL,
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s., 6cL per Day.
VISITORS CAN AVAIL THEMSELVES OF THE SEPARATE TARIFF.. I
SINGLE LOOM, 4s. - - DOUBLE DOOM, Bs.
*
———milllllllln iiIMkIWIBnIHBMHHW—I—IHIWIW■
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
‘Tales of the Early Days’
(By PRICE WARUNG).
):(-
Bound in Boards, 2s. 4d.; Cloth, 2s. 10d., post paid.
“Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price : Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
From all Newsagents,
