

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
Hi
Parsons’ Flaked Oatmeal
107 Kent street, Sydney,
-FOE-
Mining
and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
g
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PUBS COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
ĝ
It, A. Hervcj, Agent, as Pltt>Bt., Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON Sc SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl of Jersey,
Lord CARiNaiON, etc.,
385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS.
TRAVELLING and HAND BAGS, etc.
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
- (
r^J.
m
0 *
fHi
Sk*Z
3S
Tbe Oxford. Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
Bv Appointment to Hia Excellency Sir Robert
' Duff, K.C.M.G.
-THE-,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
MILK The Purest Country.
CREAM - - Double or Single.
ICE .. The Clearest Crystal.
BUTTER „ “Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
FISH •• ... Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
GAME The Choicest Sorts.
POULTRY .. From the famed Farms of the Colony
PASTRY, «Sc. .. The most Exquisite.
Mg’” The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
milk, ice, butter,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
H. PATESOY,
Sydney, Ist July, 1893. Manager.
g
J.
OWARD
, _ ivrf*sai*s Clayton and Siauttleworth.
Sole A«eet« in »Te-er Sootto. Welee Tor Mee
—THE—
Oldest Plough-makers
In the World.
THE BUILDERS
OF THK
First Iron Plough in the World.
We have a reputation for Plough-
making all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
which is not to be-equalled by any
of the younger and less experienced
fimns.
STECBA-CE PLOUGH
OV£RHOH
kZh- r i
'.I
mmmL
&-■ v ; ; ■\-i. :-'''-W
—THE-
Howard Digging Plough*
The most perfect Cultivator
yet made.
To be had in all descriptions.
ALL CLASSES
—OF —
Agricultural Implements
aitd MACHINERY.
Write ns for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely-extended SHOW-
ROOMS..
y SM3O
&d asos Street,
Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 14—No. 736. J
[Saturday, March 24, 1894
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Medical.
—FOR—
Winter Coughs and Bronchia
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE
Any kind of a Cough or Cold (recent or chronic),
Influenza, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Tickling of the Throat, Bronchitis,
Incipient Consumption, and all other similar
complaints,
!t is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers.
It clears the Throat, removes all huskiness and
causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale: 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
(Registered)
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world oyer as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANGIPANNE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPHANOTiS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION !-omy genuine witli shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Kose”
and address in lull.
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
Buffering: from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box lor bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
twenty minutes. Every
infferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable!
»s a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “PACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkbcham’s Cough
Fills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beechara, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es.bd. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
iverywhere.
K.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes a grand medicines have not been
"recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onco
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 NKW Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chase rs’should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
£cil4
PATENT
PILLS.
&
*
SLAP BANG! HEBE WE ABE AGAIJSf.
£loo ! £lOO ! £IOO !
TO BE GIVEN AWAY!
As Good as a CONSULTATION, and very much fairer than some. The cry is STILL THEY
GOME for the Celebrated
ii
X.EGER ”
Tobacco
IrEG-ER
Tobacco
“
LEGES.”
ToJbacco
THE MANUFACTURERS of this first-class brand are right up to date, and to show their appre-.
ciation of the support received from the public for the half-year ending December 17, 189.3, have
determined to distribute another BONUS, double the amount of the last, viz. -.—One Hundred Pounds.
£ioo iar £ioo C3ir £ioo er* £ioo
among smokers of the “LEGER,” divided into
*1 a J-Priaaes ! 3L2! Prizes! 12 Prizes!
as follows;
To the person forwarding to the agent the largest number of “Leger” paper tags or
labels from the plugs during the Six Months ending 16th JUNE, 1,894, TWENTY-
FIVE POUNDS ... ... ... ... ... ... - <£2s 0 0
For the Second highest number, TWENTY POUNDS ... ... ... 20 0 0
For the Third highest number, TEN POUNDS ... ... ... ... 10 0 0
For the Fourth highest number, NINE POUNDS ... .. ... ... 9 0 0
For the Fifth highest number, EIGHT POUNDS ... ... ... ... 8 0 0
For the Sixth highest number, SEVEN POUNDS ... ... ... ... 7 0 0
For the Seventh highest number, SIX POUNDS ... ... ... ... 6 0 0
For the Eighth highest number, FIVE POUNDS ... ... ... ... 5 0 0
For the Ninth highest number, FOUR POUNDS ... ... ... ... 4 0 0
For the Tenth highest number, THREE POUNDS ... ... ... ... 3 0 0
For the Eleventh highest number, TWO POUNDS ... ... ... ... 2 0 0
For the Twelfth highest numbet, ONE POUND ... ... ... ... 10 0
£lOO 0 0
Those who have not tried it should do so at once.
Ask for “LEGER” Tobacco ... .... Price ONE SHILLING per Block.
Country Customers are particularly requested to forward orders at once to the sole agent, Mr.
M. SIMMONS, so that all consumers may start on equal terms.
FUN and SMOKING will commence on 18th DECEMBER, 1893, and competition closes on
16th JUNE, 1894.
Be sure and send along without delay. Facts are stubborn things, and it is a fact that 5000
CASES of this favourite Brand have been sold and consumed in N.S. Wales in six months.
The manufacturers of the “ LEGER” are determined to give smokers the benefit of this handsome
bonus, and instead of advertising on walls, placards and in newspapers, or sending out elaborate and
gaudy showcards (which all cost money), they make the “LEGER” of SUPERIOR QUALITY
rather than spend money on FOL DE ROLS.
Smokers of the “ LEGER ” get the best Dark Tobacco in the World, and everyone has a chance
of securing a magnificent Bonus as well.
Don’t Forget—£loo! £100! £100! £100! to be Given Away!
COMPETITION CLOSES .... 16th JUNE, 1894.
BONUS DISTRIBUTION .. . 35th JUNE, 1894.
PARCELS of TAGS will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, who is
authorised by the manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a SAMPLE FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales, on application to onr Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
Medical.
The First Step
FOB
NERVOUS MEN
«2T APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PEREY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS akd INVALIDS
‘ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.0.5., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts,
♦ ■
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL COOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTOREI
hi Four Weeks by the use of
o 5 JR-* CO RO'S
i.sst
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 06s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Perry d: Co., 13 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy. MELBOURNE.
Agents forN. S. Wales-W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
cows
IvEMBROCAJIOIV .
w/0
bwe
%CWJ V-, T
,\EveR%WHEHE(i 'V^l
g
Medical.
Oj
UPP
mliw
*7%
g
HO
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS.
What even one says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE KRUPP GALVANIC BELT,
All agree in priising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is
Guaranteed to Absolutely Cure
completely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Com-
plaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, (lout. In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy Spcrmaforrha a,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Pa/pi/otim,
Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a' PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special Appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health hy procuring and takipg USE-
LESS DRUGS? Electricity,! when properly applied, is
acknowledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians
to be the only* safe and radical cure for Nervous and
Sexual Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials re-
ceived by the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages
throughout Australasia prove the unquestionable curative
properties of Electricity as applied by theapplianoe above
referred to. Our confidence in this appliance is so
complete, that
We Send the Belt Out on Trial,
and guarantee to give perfect satisfaction. For full par-
ticulars as to terms, &c., send for our large illustrated
treatise, FREE, in which these Belts are fully illustrated,
the action of Electricity on the nervous system explained,
and a lot of useful information on nervous and sexual
diseases given. This treatise also contains facsimile of
testimonials received from some of our Clients who have
tried our Belts. The originals of these testimonials pro-
duced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor ... Carlj Krupp.
Business Manager A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT CO.,
BOX 647, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt is easy to wear, is
ent on approval, and the first cost is the only cost.
IF’ireo Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
. Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST. Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNSY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“Tb.e Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government,
One Person, one Vote.
Comolete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its_ lines. The result of its powerful
influence .and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over’ whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend..
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners -in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
oil Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is, the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its,vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and moat
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to he addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi.
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical.
K
112 PHILLIP ST. SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
"NERVOUS 4, SKIN COMPLAINTS,"
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questionsDo you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients should send One Found
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered? ‘Dr. J. Vinds will, on receipt of !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
X CHarge Nothing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Vin6s for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Honrs of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications /
Dr. JECKELL VIKTES,
H 2 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
No Cure, 3XT o X 3 * ay.
b elt
V
HIHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
r~ cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
w°PA e r er caused . and restore the wearer to ROBUST
U .u-TH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
S ?i ~l n” cum *nt that can be felt by the wearer through
ah WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not wo will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
I
L!
BEFORK
TAKING,
NERVITA
CURES IN 21 DAYS
, DEBILITY.
AFTER
21 DAYS
In all stages. Despondency,
Bashfulness, &c., &c., how-
ever caused, never returns.
THOUSANDS have proved that the only REMEDY
to effect a quick permanent euro is NERVITA, the
21 days’ cure, forwarded by mail in plain package to
any address. Price, 21 SHIELINGS. Why pay more ?
NERVITA REMEDY AGENCY, Box 399, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BEEP iron and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder,
ABSOLUTELY TIRE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOUNG NEEKT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c,, &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in. making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIIt,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed. Toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
, All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(Two doors front Market-street),
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Hotel.
m.
iiec.
in i
“she (Sydney (Coffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young's Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TAKIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 153
With Board 30a
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
253 each per week, Board
o and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30a each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &o.
I>ES€KII>TIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardena.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
jvith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Medical.
LEPROSY.
Scrofula, Eczema, Erysipelas, Rheumatism, Itch, Gout,
Ulcers, Sciatica, Cancers, Blotches, Lumbago, Scurvy,
Piles, Gravtl, Stone in Bladder, Indigestion, Kidney and
Liver Complaints, Debility, Fils, Foul Sores, Pimples,
Freckles, Ringworms, Scales, Barbers’ Rash, Chilblains,
Chapped Hands, Scald Head, Grog Blossoms, Mange in
Horses and Dogs, and all other
Blood and Skin Diseases
Guaranteed to be speedily eradicated, and permanently
cured by Dr. KOCH S infallible remedy. It expels all
impurities and foul matter from the blood, bones, and
flesh ; it cleanses, heals and beautifies the skin, and
restores the hair quickly and luxuriantly. The influx of
Asiatics has alarmingly spread LEPROSY over Australia.
No eruption should be neglected. Leprosy may lurk
behind simple-looking cutaneous affections. Dr. KOCH’S
treatment has perfectly restored numerous sufferers.
Dr. KOCH’S remarkable discovery is acknowledged to be
a sure cure for all blood and skin diseases. Dr. KOCH'S
skin-cleansing solution is the best disinfectant in the
world. Dr. KOCH’S wonderful Mood purifier, and his
marvellous skin-cleansing solution, are only obtainable
DIRECT from us. Secure unobservable packages, with
full directions, 10,6, 21/-, 42/-, sent anywhere in N.S.W.,
and to any Australian or N.Z. port, carriage free, on receipt
of P.O. Orders. Communications strictly confidential.
Orange Butter Co.,
Market Itiiildings, tJcorge-st., Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
X. adies.
We Post to any address in the Colonies a pair of our
handsome, engraved Bar Brooches for stamps, 2/6. Our
Auranian Gold Langtry Fob Chain for Ladies, stamps
2,9 ; equal to real Gold.
■ Faulkner & Co., 385 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Shipping.
England via amerioa
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn,
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under;—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, -652 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d,
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd,,
15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
MESSAGERIESJWARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Passengers booked to BOMBAY,-REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON: £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families,
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for Lordon and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
ELECTRIC PILLS.-For General Debility,
Weakness, Lassitude, &e. (Dr. Laseurs,
M.D., Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in
the world.) Electric Pills are the most speedy
and most powerful remedy in the world. One
box will be sufficient, and in even the weakest, the
oldest, and most shattered, work a miracle, while
perfectly harmless, leaving no bad after effects.
Guaranteed Never to Fail, Worth their weight in
gold. Price, 10s. 6d., post free, from the sole
agent, W. PARSONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke-street
east, Melbourne.
Oriental Female Pills.
Triple power. Restore regularity without fail, no matter
what cause. Sure and safe. Large box, posted, ss.
ORIENTAL VIGOUR PILLS for MEN. Large Box, ss.
Write W. W. Garfield, 325 West Collins-st., Melbourne.
g
-29 -
YORK STREET
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
F.O. Box; 920.
Assisted by Dr. EMSLIE, M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board of N.S.W. and N.Z.
DEBILITY.
Nervous, weak, overworked, ambitionless men and women, with aching heads, weak stomachs and
leaden footsteps, who are billions, spiritless, exhausted, debilitated, pale, easily tired, have bad tasting
mouths on rising, inability for exertion, foul breath, furred or yellow tongues, whose sleep is un-
refreshing or broken by dreams, who brood over their troubles real or imaginary, and to whom the
world looks black and dreary, will find in our treatment a boon, a nerve food, nerve tonic and nerve
alterative, that cannot be found elsewhere, and which will rapidly and pleasantly restore them to
HEALTH, STRENGTH & VIGOR.
All who suffer from brain and spine affections, fits, paralysis, sleeplessness (an early symptom of
paralysis), varicocele, consumption, bronchitis, asthma, liver and heart derangements, gout, rheumatism,
sciatica, indigestion, poor blood, eruptions on the face, kidney and bladder troubles, womb affections,
and all chronic diseases of men and women, no matter from whatever causes arising, should CON-
SULT Dr. SPEER, as, in consequence of
HARD TIMES,
HE HAS REDUCED HIS FEES EXACTLY One-Half.
SW Those CONTEMPLATING MARRIAGE, or who suspect taint in their blood, or weakness,
should write to Dr. SPEER for Advice and Treatment. He will cure all local and constitutional
complaints, and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Consultations Free. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
PILLS.
AMERICAN “VIGOR” PILLS, for Debility,
Lost Vitality, Weakness, etc., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes. Post free.
“FEMALE” PILLS, for Irregularities
Obstructions from whatever cause, 10s.
20s.


Petty’s Family Hotel* Sydney*
WYNYARD SQUARE;
IB UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Large, well-ventilated Hedrooms.
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladles' Ss Gentleman's Dining & Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’Hdte as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
Announcements.
'agfßangfr
B|Sl
MERCERI;
PRIDDY’S
HATS j
at once
I
PROCLAIM |
the
MAN.
THEY give a creditab’e appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
W orld-renowned.!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
433 GE ORGE STREET (opposite Lasse tter’s.,
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill):
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
■i
SiM&ESI
a&SEST
®@VING
machine
W2Rl©
S*
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
mum
mmm
x'?
I
HOME
me
*
g
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY]
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
g
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 12/6 each ; Plainer Finish,
7/6 each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Awarded FIRST PRIZE by Royal Agri-
Ctdtwral Society,
*W". •J'jra.o. Baker, Cutler, 3 Htintei:—st., Sy<ars,ey
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
Limited.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants, i
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam DElngines, IB oilers. Gras DElngines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tar Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and yeur enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
' WILL FIND
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over yoo A parl-
vients and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &*c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. %
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
Plum’
THE
THE
‘Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
jan highly recommend this brand to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to its merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p_. f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
1 uce |Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, G BO George Street, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney.
6 6 rjIALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Stukkt, Sydney.
Public Companies.
TPi/re Ris/es at Lowest Rates,
g
Head Offices:
-95-
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL,
£150,000
v 7
Ac
Directors:
Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
{Chairman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.C.,
JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
BOBEBT HEBE, Manager.
STATIONERS’ HALL 00.
(C. E. FULLER & CO.)
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED|
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d.
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, good quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good quality, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.-
OFFICE APRON FILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each. !
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographie Pens, 2a. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from 3£d., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, Moro. Leather, from 6d.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONEES' HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
385 GEORGE S!., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
BYDNE Y, N. S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
Phe Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
Banking.
—THE—
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,600,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers l Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
mHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(LIMITKD),
Head Office—Queen Stre:t, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £309,000
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 315,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Jtanh of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid up .. £200,000.
Hbsk.uvk Liability .. 250,000.
Head Office - Brisbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Medical.
Teeth.— a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6 ; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages : -
Absolute painless treatment,' no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes: —“The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves,
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest, to
satisfy every cuslonler.” '
SEND, or,CALL for our WORK on DENTISTRY,
post free on application 16 this LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST; (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &«.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF A CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON £c CO., Sydney
MASSEY & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY. YOU .\G. N.S.W.
WHY WALK WHEN YOU CAN RIPE
Our NEW DEEKFOOT BUGGY is Substantial. Neat,
Durable, Graceful and Comfortable, and the
Price, complete with SHAFTS, STORM APRON,
WRENCH, etc.
Without Hood .. £l4 O 0
_ With Hood .. £l7 10 0
'.We pack these Buggies in cases without -any extra
charge.
HOLDS TWO PASSENGERS
Comfortably, and RUNS as SMOOTH afl
A TALE OF LOYE.
Price is Right.
Body is 54 inches long, 26 inches wide, and
7 inches deep; Width of Track, 5 feet 2 inches.
WE DEFY CQMPETITION. Write us for particulars.
James Martin & Co.,
*
Market ami
Clarence Streets,
Sydney.
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
We are the Originators of the fanions SCOTCH and WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED SUITS
TO MEASURE at 45/- TROUSERS, 12/6.
BOUND CORKSCREW SUITS, 50/- .. .. TROUSERS, IG/6
The FINEST QUALITY in SERGES from 50 - .. TROUSERS, WA-
PS?- Country Customers please WRITE for PATTERNS, TARE and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS.
LONDON .1 MELBOURNE TAILORING GO., til Evshine Street.
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.


The Bulletin
Rent tiered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 14.-H0.736,
SATI IM)A Y, MARCH 24, 1894.
Price, 6d.
tjjlh 1°
P# frel aXe/
I
m
(trst WLf tym. W W ai) 4 tLirifc feft;
(Linj al rfe fop ffare ag j/e'r< to 9»
ilje S'palpepp ! M
nife o( Cifai-ey - *li) ottw/ijess ,
a pisfbl sW- V lyimr. bt ccyea^;
rf/pF ”m (/if you.. ■
Law-abiding Cifizei? -" 01;. its 0515 s"^‘.
toij,: Tfy y»r 4^is o-i h h ,r w T^°^ f
g
THE REIGN OF THE REVOLVER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sidney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 'OT26
Quarterly... 0 6 G
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay hy Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered hy mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ivhorn we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleoo, Managing Director
Literary Communications to he addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions, submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings, All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified cend stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly Under-
stand that ive are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also : - It, A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Neivspapprs, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
T^e'^tdlelZn.
SATURDAY, MARCH 24, 1894.
A Dying Fetich..
The Gladstone Cabinet is a thing of the
past in England, and almost the first public
appearance of its successor, the Rosebery
Cabinet, has been to meet with defeat at the
hands of the Democratic section of the Com-
mons. The Cabinet has tranquilly ignored this
vote of censure, and has gone upon the even
tenor of its way with lordly indifference ;
yet, nevertheless, its prestige is woefully
damaged. The vote, it is true, was passed
in an ordinary House —that is to say, in one
that was barely half-full, and the Govern-
ment was defeated by a majority of only
two ; moreover, it seems to be generally
acknowledged that in a full gathering of the
Commons it has a tolerably solid majority.
But otherwise the event is eminently
significant. The man who defeated the new
Ministry was Labouchere the Radical
politician whom the House has so long
refused to regard seriously, and who was
despised and rejected when the last Glad-
stone Government was in process of forma-
tion ; the 147 members who supported him
represented the strongest truly democratic
vote yet recorded in the British Commons ;
and the resolution which they carried
against all the available voting - capacity
of the Rosebery Cabinet was one
demanding that the House of Lords should
be deprived of its power to veto measures
passed by the Commons—in effect, that the
Lords, as a legislative body, should be prac-
tically abolished. And the fact that a branch
of the British legislature should carry such a
resolution in any house, however thin, and
by any majority, however small, is both
astonishing and gratifying. It is, without
exception, the most hopeful British Parlia-
mentary event of the century. No matter
how slow its progress the world keeps
moving, and as it moves even the pro-
foundly reverential Briton loses some
measure of his reverence, and the divinity
which hedges in a lord gets worn away by
the gradual attrition of the ages.
No one who has not lived for many years
in England can understand how deeply-
rooted the British peerage is, and how much
more deeply rooted it, was a very few years
ago, in the soil of Britain. The country is
old, and it has a reverence for everything
which is ancient and pretentious and utterly
useless. It grovels to anything in the way
of dignified lumber which professes to have
its origin away back in far antiquity.
There is a halo about the British peerage
because of its presumable ancientness ;
the moss of grey tradition has grown over
it. It is a memory of the buried ages
when the early British dignitary went forth
in armour and rattled like a crate of loose
hardware down the paths of history, and it
rightly belongs to the period of monks and
tournaments and pursuivants and heralds. Its
existence is a ghastly attempt to jointheTenth
CenturyontotheNineteenth. Theold nobility
was created, in the first place, to be the mili-
tary force of the country ; the new nobility
is created because it is a coarse, thick-set
person who successfully floated a huge
brewery. The existing House of Beers is
reverenced because it is venerable and his-
toric ; yet, by the irony of circumstances, it
is, in the main, neither venerable nor his-
toric. It consists mostly of brewers and
coal-dealers and all manner of commonplace
traders ; and its real name is mostly Jones,
though it generally calls itself Percy or
the like ; and its pedigrees, like that of the
Duke of Fife, for example, are largely made
up of bogus family records, and stolen monu-
ments, and sham tombstones set up to the
memory of imaginary ancestors. It has
been held in esteem for many years because
its names were associated with many glorious
mediaeval butcheries, and the fact that about
two-thirds of it was plain, modern, commer-
cial Jenkins, which had only borrowed these
historic cognomens, made practically no
difference to a credulous nation reared in an
atmosphere of unquestioning veneration.
* # *
The British peers held their hereditary
rights in the first place because they formed
the hereditary fighting force of the State.
When they ceased, in a great measure,
to be personally a fighting force, they con-
tinued to hold their position because they
furnished, or were understood to furnish,
the army, and they held their estates solely
in consideration of so doing. When they
shifted their military responsibilities on to
the nation at large they retained their
power because they were an ancient and
more or less picturesque institution. And
when wars, wholesale executions, insurrec-
tions, proscriptions and other disasters prac-
tically extinguished the old nobility, and a
new nobility sprung up which had mostly
bought its titles for cash, or acquired them
because it was descended from a king’s mis-
tress, and which was not even picturesque or
historical, it held its place still because the
habitof reverence had eaten into the soul of the
nation and the desire for something to grovel
to had become a matter of second nature.
The peerage long ago deliberately abjured
all the responsibilities of its position, and
retained the privileges only. The modern
House of Lords is mostly as new, as garish,
and as utterly devoid of all the graces —if
there be any—of antiquity as the nigger
peerage which the Emperor Dessalines
created in Hayti. It is not better educated
—in fact, it is much worse educated—than
the Commons ; it is not more moral; it is
vastly less patriotic ; it is so utterly neglect-
ful of its legislative duties that out of some
560 peers it is seldom possible to get more
than 40 together in the gorgeous chamber
where they are supposed to mismanage the
affairs of the nation ; and it hardly contains
three men of ability who have been born in
the purple. It does nothing in return for
its right to overrule the deliberate resolution
of thirty-nine millions of people, save that it
exists, and even that it does badly and with
much indecency.
* # #
The history of the House of Lords for the
present century can be related in a few
words. It fought desperately against
Catholic emancipation in Ireland ; against
the admission of Jews to Parliament; against
each successive extension of the franchise,
beginning with that original Reform Bill
which first created anything which could
reasonably be called a franchise at all. It
opposed to the uttermost the extinction of
negro slavery, the wiping out of the tyran-
nous Irish Church, the ballot, the restriction
of the hanging laws, the abolition of the
brutal statutes which made trades-unionism
a crime to be expiated only by transporta-
tion under all the horrors of the Convict
System, and the partial mitigation of the
iniquitous Game Laws whereby the starving
peasant who killed a hare was sent out to
herd with the worst of criminals in Yan-
demonia or Norfolk Island. And it struggled
desperately against compulsory education,
against Home Rule for Ireland, against the
mitigation of the Irish land laws, against the
local Government system—against every-
thing, in fact, which bore the slightest resem-
blance to progress or enlightenment. These
are a few items in its history for the present
century, and its history in past centuries has
been the same. If it had had its way
Britain would have been a slave-holding
empire to this day. There would be no
franchise worth speaking of in Britain, and,
as an almost inevitable consequence, none
in the other parts of the empire, and
Australia would be still a Crown colony
bossed, probably, by the infamous Rum-
selling Corps, or some worthy successor of that
unspeakable body. There would be no free
press, no educational system, no local govern-
ment —in fact, the British empire would still
be very much as it was two centuries ago,
and, therefore, very much as the Russian
empire is to-day.
• • •
In all the records of the House of Peers
for at least two hundred years, there cannot
be found one concession to liberalism granted
except under extreme pressure. It has up-
held every old-time barbarity to the last,
and has struggled to the utmost against every
new idea. It has opposed everything, and
it has originated absolutely nothing. Yet
the British nation, until a very few years
ago, clung to it with the abject reverence of
a Fantee to his god. The beginning of the
new revolt has its origin in the passing of
the first Education Act—the greatest legis-
lative idea of the century—some 23 years
ago. Previous to that event the ignorance
of England, Ireland and Wales was blank,
abject, pitiable, and almost beyond the com-
prehension of the present generation, and
even that of Scotland, though by far the
least illiterate section of the kingdom, was
sufficiently vast. It was on this igno-
rance that the ancient incubus lived, and
when that national obscurity began to
be dispelled, the end was at hand. The
resolution which was passed the other day
in the Commons was carried by the vote of
the new generation—the one which has
grown up under the system of secular
education, and has lost its awe of the old-
time fetiches in the process. And the reason
why that vote was not absolutely overwhelm-
ing was that the old generation of the pre-
education period still forma most of the
voting power of Great Britain. When it has
died and been gathered to its illiterate
fathers the new era will begin in real earnest,
and the House of Eldest Sons will presently
be only the memory of a bygone curse, and a
nightmare that has passed away.
Dictator versus Prevaricator.
Dibbs is bad; but then Parkes is a thousand
times worse. The moral and political idiosyn-
cracies of the two men are configured in their
physical characteristics ; in both the Dictator
has the advantage over the Prevaricator.
Parkes prides himself on being thought “ a
nice, clean old man ” ; and many people, by
merely regarding him from a distance, are con-
vinced that he is all he looks. But examine
him closely—physically, socially, politically—
and he will appear decrepit, crooked and ugly,
unless you have a moral squint. Dibbs,
physically, at any rate, is stalwart, straight and
handsome. Morally and socially he is reput-
ably clean and apparently decent; commer-
cially and politically, he is downright honest
and courageous. Admitted that be is a blunderer
and a bully, there is no- sinuous sneakery or
greasy treachery in his composition ; and if he
is bumptious towards his equals and brutal to
hungry unemployed, lie proves himself to be just
as big a bully towards Imperial military-man
Hutton, who claims the right to play at
soldiers with Australian people’s money accord-
ing to his own English notions. The pompous
and cunning Parkes wouldn’t have done it so ;
he might have done it secretly and in a cowardly
fashion, but never as Dibbs did it. The be-
baubled Parkes, of Brummagem, was com-
pletely muzzled long ago. The bebaubled
Dibbs, of New South Wales, is too daring and
obstreperous to suffer the gag for long. All
bullies are tyrants, but tyrants are not always
cowards. Beside these negative personal quali-
ties, Dibbs has positively good ones. If he is a
public blunderer, he is privately above re-
proach. His best claim to esteem and confi-
dence rests on his personal probity and the scru-
pulous honour of his business transactions with
other men, especially in his dealings with
creditors. Of him it can truthfully be said that
he believes that “ honour does consist in paying
20s. in the £ ” —some people don’t. I wish not
to seem irreverent, but if “an honest man’s
the noblest work of God,” then ought He to be
praised for putting Dibbs in Parkes’ place,
because, despite that high-handed £IOOO episode,
Dibbs’ presence there brings us a step —if only
a short one—nearer to “pure and honest
Government,” which Parkes prates about so
persistently and ignores so consistently.
# * #
Bumptious tyrants and gruff dictators have
their uses, if only to suppress plausible
impostors and displace oily humbugs, and
thus prepare the way for better men. Under
the reign of Parkes and his successive
teams of insignificant and obsequious poli-
tical tpadies, the people were perpetually
deluded ; under the recreant Republican Dibbs
they are insulted and outraged. There’s more
hope for a people smarting under a sense of insult
and injury than for one bulldozed into the
belief that it is being righteously governed by
the best men when all the while it is being
misgoverned and exploited by a clique of “ the
crimps and blacklegs ” of public life. The
“Devil’s Advocate” could say little to the
public or private credit of the personally friend-
less Parkes, although in the columns of the
shoddy newspapers he is the most bepraised
and bepuffed man in Australia ; whereas much
can be said for Dibbs who, with all his faults,
has the one signal advantage of being (though
a man beloved of his personal acquaintances)
the most misrepresented and best-abused man
against whom the daily press ever “took a set.”
If he had never done anything else than oust
Parkes and keep h i in and his parasites out of ofti ce
he would have deserved well of his native land.
The political pettifogger Parkes claims the
palm of statesmanship, and many concede it to
him, although he has no more title to it than he
has to the “ Dunmow Flitch of Bacon.” Over
and over again it has been proved that he never
passed a bad law that was not his own, nor a
good one that was. His claim to original
statesmanship rests mainly on the Treason
Felony Bill, a proposal to build a big dead-house
in Sydney Centennial Park, another proposal to
steal the name of the whole continent to confer
it upon the province of New South Wales, and
■—his bankruptcy schedules. These are about
his only original acts attempted or done ; all
the others he claims as his are either plagiarised
from other people without acknowledgment or
copied from other statutes and botched in the
copying.
* * *
Now, what shall be said further for the
behoof of the bebaubled bully Dibbs ? To start
with, he is native-born ; and ere he entered
Parliament was the leader of the movement in
favour of “ free, compulsory, and secular ”
education, while Parkes was currying favour
with the churches and the classes as an agitator
for State - aided denominational education.
Yet Parkes claims and gets the credit of
being the author of the New South Wales
public school system ! Then Dibbs was the
man who stopped the wholesale alienation of
the public estate which Parkes and his gang,
crying, “ Prosperity ! Prosperity ! !” had been
selling by auction to the extent of £2,000,000
a year. It was his Government which first
proposed a land-tax in New South Wales, a
proposal which Parkes and his myrmidons
defeated ; and he belonged to the Government
which, to an extent, reformed the Land Act, in
1884. Whether regarded as the outcome ■ of
conviction or a concession to expediency, his
breaking with the old “shoddy ring” and
espousal of Protection was a step distinctly
Australian, and in that sense patriotic, though
it made him many rich and powerful enemies.
The conversion or perversion of Dibbs to Pro-
tection dealt a death-blow to the Preetracle
fetish and the long-established rule of one-
impostor-and-his-tail. It suited the press to
denounce Dibbs as the manufacturer of
Parkesian deficits, but by sheer grit and bull-
dog courage (and the forceful assistance of Toby
Barton) he fought it down.
* * #
And, after all, though Dibbs is a disgraced
Republican renegade and the wearer of a
Downing-street badge, he’s neither better nor
worse for that than a dozen other recreant
Australians ; and he has certain qualities which
still make him tolerable to tolerably honest
men, where Parkes and such are positively in-
tolerable. These cringe and crawl to their Im-
perial masters like the servile sycophants they
are; Dibbs hobnobs with royalty, his hat
askew, and puffing a big, fat cigar, with the
same insolent audacity that prompted him to
poke his stick into Queen Elizabeth’s bed to
see what it was stuffed with. He is blunt,
brazen and bumptious ; but he is neither false,
faithless nor fri volous. He changes his political
intentions as quickly as a weathercock veers,
but in the matter of personal promises his yea
is yea and his nay, nay, no matter whom "he
displeases. Despite the combined opposition
of three powerful parties, he has done more
solid legislative work within the last two years
than Parkes ever did in ten. Loaded with the
legacy of debt and arrears of work left him by
Parkes, he has managed to keep the province
going in spite of universal distress and general
depression. He may not be the “ saviour of his
country,” but it is difficult to deny him some
credit for his prompt and courageous action
during the late financial crash. People differ
as to the merit and ultimate effect of that
action, but everybody sees cause for congratula-
tion that Parkes was not in power at the time.
If Dibbs does curse and swear at Labour
politicians, the unemployed, and payment of
members, even that is better than bamboozling
people by soapy promises never intended to be
fulfilled. It is less odious to be kicked than to be
slavered. To Dibbs’ Government are due, at least
in part, the new electoral law, such as it is ; the
Coal Mines Regulation Act; the establishment
of experimental village-settlements, as well as
a share of the credit for retrenchment, besides a
number of other progressive measures. In the
present chaos of New South Wales parties and
confusion of opinions, Dibbs is a better man
than any of the numerous competitors for his
position.
THE DEVIL’S ADVOCATE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Policeman and His Gun.
The recent shooting episode at Broken Hill is
another pleasant commentary on New South
Wales Premier Bibbs’ foolishness in arming the
police with small cannon and turning them
out to plug the community promiscuously. So
far, only the police-version of the story is
available, and The Bulletin accepts it with-
out question on the ground that it is sufficiently
ugly for all purposes. There were two police-
men in the case, and one common drunk. In
the course of an altercation the drunk hit
one of the officers, whereupon the other
clubbed him on the head. Then the inebriated
one fetched a crowbar, with which he broke one
constable’s rib and furnished the other with a
wound on the scalp. Considering that the odds
in favour of the force were two to one, and that
a crowbar is a hideously cumbersome weapon
compared to a baton, it is difficult to under-
stand why the police did not stun their oppon-
ent just here, if he couldn’t be captured
otherwise, and run in. This is what
they would have done in the pre-re-
volver era, but now the “cop” has learned
to rely on his “gun” instead. So the
pair left their uncaptured prey in the
street and “ ran to the police-station ” for their
artillery. Apparently they didn’t ask anyone
to assist them, or try to get a reinforcement;
they simply went straight for their weapons.
Then they came back, and finding their
opponent zig-zagging homewards, they didn’t
seize him, but simply ordered him to stop. As
he didn’t stop the pair opened fire on their one
miserable drunk, and, after missing him with
several execrably bad shots at close range,
they plugged him fatally in the stomach. Then
one officer “closed with” the dying man
and “threw him down,” and he gave up the
ghost five minutes later. A few weeks ago
The Bulletin remarked that it was now evi-
dently regarded as a capital offence not to stop
when ordered to do so by a policeman, and its
words have come true. The spectacle of two


Evidence —Facts prepared to fit the occa-
sion.
Constable Howlett, after 14 years’ service
in the British army and an equal term in S.A.
police, recently so far forgot the buttered side of
his bread as to make serious charges against some
of his superior officers, whom he accused of appro-
priating much valuable public property to their
private use. He was at once suspended, and was
a week afterwards dismissed for alleged “drunken-
ness and insubordination,” although the previous
charge had never been preferred against him, and
the “ insubordination ” consisted in his outspoken-
ness. Now the authorities resolutely refuse
either to hold an enquiry into the case or to pay
him his retiring allowance (.£170). They appar-
ently fear lest his evidence should cause a scandal,
involving important personages. The Labour-
party should force on an enquiry. Howlett is
clearly entitled to a daylight trial.
policemen, whose tempers were probably in-
flamed by the crowbar episode, deliberately
going for their revolvers and with them bom-
barding to death an unarmed wretch at about
ten paces range, is sufficiently revolting. It
isn’t even decent lynch law, for the policemen,
by their own showing, were the injured parties,
the judges, jury and executioners all in one.
Also, the fact that the officers missed with five
shots at close range is pleasant reading for the
community at large, seeing that anybody is liable
to be in the road when an excited constable is
firing wildly into space. In the present instance,
one bullet came very near to killing a woman
w.ho was asleep in her own bed, but the com-
parative thinness of the population prevented
any general assassination being done. Such
an episode, in Sydney, would have almost
certainly led to the death of somebody.
The revolver in the hands of an excited Irish
constabulary is evidently going to make much
trouble. If Premier Dibbs insists on the con-
tinued use of that deadly weapon he had better
abolish the present Hibernian police-force and
start a Dutch one instead. The Dutch are a
stolid, slow-going, broad-beamed race built on
the lines of a Chinese junk, and are about the
only nation which thinks twice beforejit shoots
once, when it is clothed in a little brief authority
and a gun.
-♦
A grave mistake is being made by progressive
politicians in devoting all their attention to
public law and allowing private law to shift for
itself. The result is that while most states are
acquiring constitutions nominally freer than of
old, many of the old bonds bearing upon the
most ordinary relations of life still rankle.
Considering the numbers affected and the way
in which they are affected, the law of distress
is a worse evil than plural voting; the chicanery
of insolvency proceedings is more productive of
corruption among the people than a big railway
bill; the control by the dead over the living
by means of the doctrines of wills and adminis-
tration is more unnatural than the pos-
sibility of being ruled by the imbecile scion of
a successful pirate ; the lawyer system is a
worse cancer than even possible anarchy, the
joint stock co. system affects more people and
has more pitfalls, quagmires and class privi-
leges and perquisites than the whole question
of Royalty and Republicanism can supply ; and
the subject of marriage affords more scope for
reform and would have a more potent effect on
the happiness of the people than Australian and
Imperial Federation together. Neglect in mat-
ters of private law brings its revenge. It
tends to introduce irresponsible and unrepre-
sentative legislators. It has always happened
that when the constituted lawmakers have
neglected private laws, the Judges have made
them. And they are doing so in Australia
to-day.
New South Wales Labour-members should
fight hard for Cook’s “Truck Bill.” At pre-
sent some mine-owners “expect” their em-
ployes to patronise a certain store, or pub.,
which store or pub. is the mine-owners’ own
property. The miner who doesn’t observe this
“ expectation ” is usually found incompetent or
undesirable on some early pretext, and—joins
the unemployed. The store commodities are at
prices highly overtopping current retail rates.
The same villainies are practised in the camps
of public works contractors, in which cases the
scheme generally takes the form of a friend of
the contractor running a shanty adjacent to the
camp, or even of an enterprising stranger pay-
ing a percentage fee to the contractor for the
privilege of opening such shanty. These dens
call themselves “ boarding-houses,” but the
teetotal navvy, or other worker, has a short
stay on the contract. Cook’s Bill would abolish
all such coercion, and would compel employers
to pay full wages in hard cash without any
deductions for “ truck.” The next step should
be to abolish the whole system of “ garnishee
orders,” as an evil blight on the industrial com-
munity.
The Australian Star puts in a plea for the
Afghan camel-driver and the Mongolian :
The Sovereign of Great Britain and its dependencies has
consented to permit the people of one dependency to
assume the ri”ht to restrict the liberty of fellow subjects
of the same Sovereign to come among them. Similarly
the Imperial authorities of the great Chinese Empire have
but faintly objected to their subjects being treated as
semi-enemies by the subjects of a friendly Power. These
are conditions wfiich cannot be expected to endure for
ever. Moreover, inasmuch as the objections to the im-
migration and presence of the aliens in question are not
racial or moral, but distinctly economic, it matters very
little whether the Chinaman, the Afghan or Syrian be
excluded altogether, their own Governments continuing
too weak or too indifferent to insist on their being treated
with benevolence. Every race or nationality which has
been depressed into habits of labouring for trifling wage,
and of living on the cheapest scale, presents just as
objectionable features as the swarthy Afghan, the dark
Hindoo, the yellow Mongolian. The Sicilian and Italian
peasant, and the Levantine Greek, are just such people,
and they have already begun to discover Australia.
This is very good if regarded as eloquence, but
considered as information it is a failure. The
Sovereign of Great Britain isn’t the person who
has “consented ” to allow Australia to restrict
Chinese immigration ; the “ consent ” of that
crowned shadow hasn’t been seriously asked in
connection with any legislative act for many
years past. The Chinaman, who is the person
restricted, isn’t, except to an infinitesimal
degree, a “fellow-subject.” The “Imperial
Chinese authorities ” can’t object with any show
of reason to the Australian policy of restriction,
seeing that the Australian or other vyhite
man in China is fifty times more restricted.
“ British subjects ” have never had free access
to China—they have always been confined to
a few cities at or near the coast —and why the
Chinaman should demand for himself what he
doesn’t give to others passes comprehension.
Also, the argument about the Sicilian and the
Italian and the Portuguese and the miscel-
laneous Levantine is abject folly. All these
admit the “ British subject ” freely to their own
countries, and give him about as much legal
protection as he can get in London, so
that their free admission in return is
at least something resembling a fair ex-
change. And—what is vastly more im-
portant—they are not aliens in the Chinese and
Afghan sense. In reasonable numbers they can
be absorbed in the general mass of the popu-
lation without any injury to the national char-
acter, and they are objectionable only because
they tend to reduce the scale of wages. If they
didn’t affect the labour-market there would be
no more objection to them than to Premier
Rosebery or any other European. But the
Asiatic can’t be absorbed, and even if his
presence raised the wage-rate until it was as
high as Mount Koscuisko he would remain the
same old racial curse to the bitter end.
In Melbourne, as in Sydney, the lawyer who
“misconducts” himself in money matters is
expanding into a colossal joke. Last week
J udge Hood dealt with the case of an attorney
who had hung on to his client’s cash in the now
epidemic style. £35 of a client’s money had
passed into the coffers of his adviser, on the
understanding that it was to be retained on
account of certain legal proceedings then pend-
ing. The client wisely discontinued these
proceedings when the costs —dear old costs !
had arrived at £lB Is., whereupon he held out
his hand for the balance due to him, £l6 19s,
The attorney couldn’t cash up, was summoned,
ordered to pay, didn’t pay. The affidavit filed
in defence stated the utterly irrelevant fact
that the whole £35 collected by this amusing
attorney would have been “absorbed” if the
client had not stopped the aforesaid proceedings
when only £lB Is. was “absorbed.” He bad
expected to set off “ costs ” against the full
amount, but his hopes were blighted. His in-
ability to absorb the lot was seemingly the
extenuating circumstance. Anyway, Judge
Hood took a benign view of the case. The
attorney, “by his own statement,” said the
Judge, “had done that which a solicitor had
no right to do. He had applied client’s money
to his own use, and when asked for it was not
able to comply with the request. (!!) That would
be little or no offence in a layman, but it was an
offence in a professional man. So far, the
lawyer was to blame. The case was, however,
deprived of aggravating circumstances.”
Heaven and Earth ! Doesn’t Judge Hood con-
sider his own libel upon laymen an aggravated
circumstance ?
A simple-minded genius named Buckhurst,
forming part of a deputation to Premier
Patterson, suggested that “ 120 men should be
selected from the ranks of retired Civil servants
and professional men (Mr. B. himself is a retired
builder by profession) to act as permanent
juries in Melbourne.” This is a splendid sug-
gestion from the Fat Man point of view. Every
retired Civil servant would bring a calm, un-
biassed mind to bear upon the case of the low,
vulgar beast who “ shook ” a pair of boots, and
when the erring bank-clerk, or polite Govern-
ment employe came along for trial it would be
bad luck for him if he didn’t have at least ten
mercifully-disposed people on the jury. The
Law hasn’t many terrors for Fat Man under
present conditions, but with a permanent jury
system —our oath ! He’d form a limited com-
pany for working the noble 120, the price of
verdicts to be fixed by a financial committee.
There would, of course, be a division of cases
into classes. The defendant’s payment in an
extra special first-cjass case would vary between
£250 for a simply/* 1 disagreement ” and £lOOO
for an acquittal without a stain on his
character.
♦
Robert Reid, M.L.A., of Victoria, has evi-
dently got about the worst attack of swelled
head on record since he started on his muddled
embassy to Europe. This feeble bore now
mistakes himself and Patterson for Australia,
and speaks wildly of that continent as “ we.”
He was interviewed recently in London, and
this is the awful way he went on :
On the subject of Imperial defence I hold very strong
views. What would be the position of Australia, of all
our colonies, in fact, if the Imperial Government were to
allow the navy of Great Britain to sink below the strength
of the navies of the world? J will urge this upon Her
Majesty’s Government most strongly. We in Australia
are quite prepared to do our part—-to take our fair share
in the defence of the Empire. . . . I have a most im-
portant subject to discuss with the War Office, and that is
the supply of hydraulic-pressed chaff, bran and horse-feed
for the army. lam also in hopes of getting the English
'bus and tram companies to take up this matter. One
part of my mission is to bring under the notice of the
Imperial Government the necessity of a cable via the
Pacific, which shall pass only through the British
Dominions. The future of the new Canadian-Australian
steamship line will depend upon the success of my mis-
sion in opening up trade on a reciprocal basis with
Canada. . . . Although the external debt of Austra-
lasia may reach £188,000,000, there is a large balance to
credit with the ever-increasing output of wool and wine,
of meat and wheat, of silver and copper, of every kind of
product, in fact, and every penny that has been borrowed
is certain to be repaid, with interest. We have borrowed
freely. Admitted. But you have reaped the advantage.
We have not had the coin.
MTIWRAITH has now a special and cogent
reason for urging his old theory that Britain
should help to pay the expenses of emigrants to
Queensland. The land-grab-railway syndicators
will, when they come into daylight, stipulate, as
some of them did before, for the importation of
their own workmen. The current anti-alien
feeling will render it impossible to introduce
coolies or Chinese without a civil war, and thus
the syndicators will have to use up Australian
labour at Australian wages, or fall back on
England. MTlwraith is preparing for that
event. He considers that he can induce
Queensland to carry on assisted-iminigration,
and if he can also get Britain to “assist the
practical result will be the establishment of free
immigration, and the dumping down in the
North of shipload after shipload of the poor and
outcast. Half of MTlwraith’s official resig-
nations, half of his ordinarily-inexplicable
doings and sayings, have their origin in his
determination to rail Queensland on the land-
grant syndicate system, and this latest cabled
utterance of his, in face of the awful workless-
ness and destitution existing in Australia, is no
exception. The syndicators demand a con-
gested, and, therefore, a cheap, labour-market,
or the right to introduce Mongol and coolie
labour; MTlwraith knows that the latter
alternative means fire and dynamite ; therefore,
he will, if he can, make arrangements for the
former. Let the Democratic party sharpen its
teeth. Unless it bites the carotid artery of the
MTlwraithian party its fat will be used to
grease the syndicate’s railway-axles and its
bones to manure the canefields of Miss Shaw’s
Northern aristocracy.
Melbourne begins to realise that the people
who have ruled it and exploited it for so many
years, “ worked the little oracle on the religious
lay.” Museums and picture galleries couldn’t
be opened on the Saw bath, Sunday trains and
Sunday newspapers were to be vetoed, not on
any high moral ground, but merely to supply
the crowd with a continual object-lesson on
the saintliness of their rulers. But the boom-
burst has destroyed nearly every sanctified
reputation, and the poor, deluded citizens are
kicking themselves with savage energy when
they contemplate the mortification of the flesh
they have endured merely to supply a clique of
hypocritical scoundrels with a cheap means of
self-advt. The Bulletin has no hesitation
in writing that the men with the cleanest
public reputation to-day in Melbourne are
those whose names have never been mentioned
in connection with any church or Young
Men’s Christian Association, and who have
been regarded by the clergy and the ruling gang
of cold-water saints as dissipated and unclean.
Melbourne is now tired of placing “ char-
acter ” before capacity as a qualification for
prominence in public matters, and therein lies
a germ of hope for the future.
Apropos to N.S.W. Chief Justice Barley’s
zeal for the protection of public decency, is not
the too frequent occurrence of the names of
Barley, Owen, Foster, Manning, Stephen,
Innes, and Windeyer among the Judge’s Asso-
ciates something in the nature of an outrage on
public decency ? These Associates are almost
invariably sous or relatives of the Judges,
they receive £3OO a year and outrageous
pickings —we speak of the charges made for
copies of Judges’ notes —for exceedingly light
work, and they are all the time qualifying for
the profession of barrister, and scraping up an
extensive acquaintance with attorneys and their
articled clerks. There is an amount of cold-
blooded selfishness about the arrangement that
almost disarms criticism. Unfortunately, no
remedy seems available except an appeal to
their Honor’s sense of decency. And what is
true of N.S. Wales in this respect is unfor-
tunately also true of the rest of Australia.
The Bulletin directs the attention of Queens-
land Attorney-General Byrnes to what is
apparently a scandalous miscarriage of justice,
occurring at Toowoomba Police-court, on
March 7. A man was charged with a brutal
assault upon a little girl three years of age.
The mother of the woman and another married
woman gave evidence which would be grotesque
were it not horrible, proving the consummation
of the outrage. The child was seen coming out
of defendant’s house, and she immediately
made a complaint to her mother. Finally, the
child has been ill ever since. The defendant is
“ quite a respectable person,” and the greatest
exertions were made to quash the case.
Medical evidence was not forthcoming,
and the mother was asked to settle the
matter. The only defence set up. was that the
evidence was inadmissible, and the police-
magistrate had not the moral courage, in the
face of defendant’s lawyer, to send the case to
a jury, although he is reported to have said
that “ there could be no moral doubt as to the
commission of the offence.” The deduction to
be drawn is that, unless children are old enough
to be heard as witnesses, they may be out-
raged with impunity, on the ground that other
evidence is inadmissible. The Bulletin
refuses to believe that this is the law of Queens-
land, and in the interests of common humanity
calls upon the Attorney-General to bring the
“ respectable person ” to trial if the facts are
as reported in the local press, which there is no
reason to doubt.
+
Melbourne Age has the cruel effrontery to
declare that £600,000 a year has been saved to
Victoria “through the change of administration
in the Railway Bepartment.” Speight, who
was hurled out of office just as the depopulation
of Melbourne commenced, would not, according
to the Age suggestion, have dreamed of reduc-
ing expenses. The deficit would have included
another £600,000 up to date but for the vir-
tuous conduct of Baviu Syme in commanding
his trembling Shiels to get rid of Speight. This
ingenuous theory is based on the fiction that
Speight in 1891-’92 said “ nothing could be
saved”in 1893-’94, although a dozen banks might
break, and 100,000 people might go adrift in
the meantime. Speight, of course, said noth-
ing of the sort. He spoke of railway conditions
as they were before the smash came, and merely
rejected the economy proposals of the immortal
Wheeler because they were preposterous on
the face of them. Heaven (and perhaps Zox)
alone can say what Speight might have done in
a position which he didn’t occupy. What the
present Railway Commissioners might have
done instead of Speight & Co., had they been
the other people a few years ago, is as uncer-
tain as the possible whereabouts of Lot’s wife,
supposing she had been Noah’s mother.
Thus a correspondent:—
Isn’t it about lime that the periodic wooing of the coy
Governor should cease? Towards the close of every
Governor’s term there are the same heart-llutterings and
anxieties. “He will stay with us a little longer.” “No,
he won’t, ‘private affairs’ call him home.” "Yes, he
will.” “No, he won’t.” And he doesn’t, as a rule, hut
gets out of the place as soon as he decently can—or
sooner. Why should we go through the same old farce
of receiving cablegrams that So-and-so is going to reign
over us when the present figurehead retires ; then, that
So-and-so is not coming, that he wouldn’t think of it,
that Somebody-else may, that Another-one “has been
approached,” i.e., has been begged and prayed to come out
to these wilds for a time ? Then, when the Chosen One
does arrive, the joy and gladness shown by a grateful
public, though why we should be joyful goodness knows,
when we are all conscious that both His and Her Ex. will
become tired of giving the limp handshake and the well-
bred scowl, and will want to “chuck ” the whole thing in
a year. We can never get a satisfactory Gov. It stands
to reason that no man of ability could afford to leave the
stage of active affairs in London for so long a time as five
years. He would be forgotten and his chance of promo-
tion gone. We cannot get an able man, and we don’t
want the other sort. Now that Governor Hopb-
'ioun is going, Victoria might inaugurate a new
regime, and make the Chief Justice perpetual acting-
Governor with no extra pay. The other provinces could
follow suit, and then all the vice-regal salaries could be
saved, and our self-respect likewise. We shouldn’t have
to make door-mats of ourselves every five years for the
Colonial Office people to wipe their feet on. No doubt
such a proceeding as putting up “ To Let” boards on all
Govt. Houses would be but, then,
every new departure is “unconstitutional” until the
People make it constitutional, by taking it and keeping
on in that direction for ever after.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communication» which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. -Name and
address mutt, in every case, appear on MS.
“ J.G.D.”: The Bulletin declines your poem on
the “ Orange hell-draughts ” brewed by “ Balfour’s base
and bloody hand.”.... “ Q.L.”: Are you a jealous male ?....
“ A. 0.” : Some merit; but should all go in 16 lines....
“R. deS.”: Weak interest “O.B.”: Rough-set yarn;
may use “G.M.A.”: Kept for possible use “Jim
Bobbin”: “White’s” du11.... “R. 8.” : Public wants
trimmed intrigues; plenty of plain article in divorce-
courts “Strephon”: Lacks interest “G.P.F.":
Anti-twin prayer 100 dangerous to disseminate in a
country whose “ crying need is population.” (See Bp.
Webber.) “Oligarchy”: (1) It was his father, we
believe. (2) Can't say. (3) No, a nephew. (4) The evi-
dence wasn’t published because of its _ unsavoury
character. But it wasn’t the detective who “ intruded on
private life," seeing that he was on the premises by the
occupier’s authority ;it was the co-respondent. “ Private
life,” by the way, is a good expression under the circum-
stances “Workman”: An old theory which the con-
stant influx of cheap “ blacklegs” from the world
renders impossible in practice....“ Westralian The
Eastern Question isn't our funeral—“ Lo Ben”: We
can’t give you “an unbiassed opinion” on your poem. It
is unlike any other poem, or any other prose, or anything
else that we ever saw, and there is no opinion that fits the
case “JohnS— —Quantity of illegible dog-tracks
to hand... “T.A.E.” (Pahiatua): You say your essay
will have a good effect if we “ place it in a vgrry promin-
ent or a verry out of the way place.” We have done
both. We put half of it on the roof and the other half in
the cathedral .. “M. Spottlejar”: Thanks “ 0.L.”
(George-st., Sydney): Not interesting. “O.K.
(Sydney); Unsuitable. Poem good in its way, but
it would make nearly a page of mild, flowery desolation...
“The Corpse” (Brisbane): Both old Mark Twain jokes.
Also, we hate the daily-paperese style according to which
“ the mosquitoes were unremitting in their attentions lo
the gentleman,” when you simply mean that the man
was badly bitten....“ Inspiration ” : The proposed new
order of knighthood is for those who help on Imperial
Federation. Therefore, it is an “artifice” for the pur-
pose of booming Imperial Federation.... “No. 10 Tale
interesting, but putrid “Peter K.” (Nebine Creek):
The story isn’t much, and why you illustrate it with a
map showing the locality of the nearest tank, when the
tank isn’t even mentioned in the yarn, passes compre-
hension “ J.P.Y.”: Evidently either you or The Bul-
letin is a lunatic, and as it isn’t The Bulletin, we leave
you to find out which of them it is .. “J. Carr ” (Melb.):
Declined. Too serious “Gum Holes”: To satisfy
you, “Sappho Smith” isn’t as angular as the portrait
aboie her letter. Said portrait is intended to show how
the lady’s maiden aunt would have looked by this time,
supposing she possessed a maiden aunt, which she
doesn’t... “W.H.” (West Maitland): Your “articles”
were acknowledged. Also, The Bulletin declines to
regard its ghoulish and bony Xmas number as the cause
of "anybody’s still-born infant, without further evidence.
“J. Filzgibbon” (Victoria): Will boil down. The
idea of postponing interest on the public debt, however,
only means the addition of the postponed interest to the
debt, which is merely more borrow ing under another name.
“Jeremiah ” : Yes, and there is another plan equally
ingenious : Sell thedead “unemployed” for fertiliser!
“E. Cochran ”: Mr. Hollis, secretary of the N.S.W. Loco.
Drivers’ Association, can virtually say what he likes in
the press, because he isn’t in the railway service. Besides,
the loco, drivers are the one body of men who, if they
struck, could hardly be replaced “H.C.S.”: We deal
with contributors on their merits-from our point of
view “ O.” :It is recorded that the late Mr. “Manny ’
Josephson, brother of the late N.S.W. Judge, and of the
great little “ Ikey ” of ointment fame, fell overboard
from a whaler in a storm and was rescued after having
been in the water for 26 hours. This is only one of many
instances.... “Grip”: Thanks....“ S.S.": To point to
England as an argument lor handing the Australian State
railways over to private enterprise is absurd. As many as
four lines often compete for the traffic between two
British towns. This competition saves the people from
the extortion of a monopoly. Rather than hand over all
the railways to a single company, the English people
would nationalise them as they did in the case of the
telegraph... “John B.”: We can’t advise you, not
knowing any independent person who has been there....
“Miner”: “Shiner” an old Irish yarn .., “ Timou of
Athens”; That is a fine phrase about the “vampire
financier who gummed his snout to the company’s aorta.
But your letter isn’t publishable “Taeger”; Is
“Race” all your 0wn?....“ Bushwhacker " : Declined.
“Thanatos”: Five “stand backs 1” and a “marble
face pillowed on one great hand ” are unsatisfactory bids
for immortality.. “ J.W.H.” : Kindly explain what you
mean by, “she possessed a virgin’s look,” and state how
she managed to afford such an article, together with
“large blue eyes, full of soul and interest,” on the
wages of a Melb. factory-girl “J.S.S.”: M'Gowan
wasn’t butchered to make a Roman holiday. He
took the risks of his profession, and the lot went
against him-and he left about ±’sooo. Horse-racing
is not so risky as football, for example “Curlew”:
“Sailing” stale; “Democracy" stiff; “Haivey”
dull . “D.W.”: “Widow'” in type “Nat. W.”
(Mil.): (1) We can’t say—don’t know the firm. (2) Don’t
know his initials, but a letter to “Plunger W., c/o
New York Clipper, would probably find him “Hinghsh-
man” (Barmedman): There have been about 7,000,000
deaths in London alone in the last 250 years. Estimate,
if you can, the hundreds of millions of deaths in the w bo.e
country since the beginning of its history, and you will
find that every tuft of grass is a corpse, and every square
yard of ground is a feorgotten cemetery. The writer of
the par., by the way, spent 16 years in England... “R. 0.” :
A land-tax should aim at penalising the mere land holders
—the shutters-up of land - in the interests of land-users
who wrest from the land some of the wealth of which it
is the source. The whole argument needs no further
elaboration....“ Original”; Bill of fare received. Eat-
ing is more honoured at Maclean than spelling.. ...
“Bush Rat”: May work up “M.L.” : Evi-
dently no use rejecting your “Bridge, ' so will try
and strengthen the structure “J.D. : Too long for
thought “Bee”: Good points; treatment common-
place ..“Lex.” (Bris.): Jury deserved it; read the
evidence....“ Ah Men”: Infamous pupperel-doesn t
deserve to be called doggerel “ H.C." : Gladstone lines
stiff . “Pilgarlic”: Hardly stand alone; collect batch.
“Honest George”: “Assam" better; send rest
along “Aunt Sally”: Plaintive, but du11...
“WGB.”: Faint promise ; but get out of beaten track.
“jav Kay": Mostly arid....“R.L.”: This paper is
no authority on royal marriages, and doesn’t know
whether the consequences are legitimate or illegitimate,
nor does anybody else. Better toss a ha penny. ..
“H.T.”: No photo “J.0.C.”: The common meaning
of “artifice” isn’t “something (concrete) made by art,”
and you are a hypercritical blunderer “D. W.": 64 too
long for point “Wanderer”: No use “Anon”:
Just one verse from “ Graymare des Graymares ”
Let every woman now inflate
A stay-enfranchised lung-a.
And hail with loud acclaim the great
Grey mare of O-ne-hunga 1
“The Wasp”: You ask us to “touch your verses
up." Well, we’ve touched them down... .■“ B.”: (1) The
U.S. is the only country of any prominence which does
not own and control its own telegraph system. (2) At
present N.S.W. railways lose, say, £3OOO through team-
competition. If the Commissioners reduced their rates
10 per cent, they would, they say, lose £300,000.


SMOKERS!
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU.
Buy your EASTER SUPPLIES of TOBACCOS and
CIGARS,
And your EASTER PRESENTS of PIPES and
POUCHES at
WOOLF GREAT GENUINE COST PRICE
DISTRIBUTION.
Expiration of Lease —Everything must go.
536 Oeovge-st. (betweenQ.P.O.& Hunter-at.), Sydney
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
-A- Good and. OJbeap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
g
Manufactured bx
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
I‘AVKKNJB (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them bv bundles of 25-they cost you less, and you know you got the genuine
article, by seeing our Isame and, Irade Mark round each bundle.
Oh ! draught divine, that adds new life—breed*
mirth—
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Where shall I quaff thee? Horace! thou shoulds*
know ?
Why, in the Boar's Hbad Brand of Inn-s and Co.
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
March 21, 1894.
My Dear Moobabinda—
Ada Crossley’s benefit at Sydney Town Hall
(which showmen have given up billing as the
“Centennial”) was a hujje pecuniary success.
Regarded as a spectacle, the over-crowded hall
suggested an excited ant-hill, with each ant dyed
a different colour. In the semi-circle of patronage.
Mayoress Manning sported a good-looking gown
of black armure, the sleeves outlined in steel
passementerie, the corsage trimmed in steel fringes
and black folds, diamond ornaments. Miss Felicia
Manning appeared in a Watteau dress of white
bengaline; Mrs. Burdekin, in cream and helio-
trope. Miss Burdekin’s silk gown was the colour
of a brickfielder with the sun behind it, and her
opera-cloak looked like a military saddle-cloth.
Miss Crossley wore white, of course, with thick
semi-bretelles of white feathers —a novelty that
would make a scraggy woman look like a French
hen.
On her first appearance, Ada Cross-ley—who
looks like Myra Kemble at a hundred paces—got
a loud reception which visibly affected her. I
thought her selection of songs un W’ise. After hearing
her warble Patey’s old stock success, “ Che faro,”
in an ernineptly thoughtful and pleasing manner,
but without the forty-horse-power effects that
Patey put into it, the idea occurred to me that
Europe may possibly discover a mezzo.-soprano in
our Ada, There are—so far—no organ-notes in
Miss C.’s voice-box—no rumbling sounds rever-
berate along the floor and up the legs of yoffr
chair as Patey’s subterranean chortlings used to
do, and if Miss Crossley is a contralto she will
probably be a low one judging from her sweet, but
forceless, low notes. Miss Crossley was assisted
by Lilian Tree, Henri Staell, Kowalski, Charles
Saunders (obliged to encore his encore “Take a
Pair of Sparkling Eyes ”), Frank Adams, Halle-
well, besides a strange, husky baritone, who made
his first and, I hope, last appearance, and the
Liedertafels, with Charles Huenerbein, Mr. Sykes,
and Signor Hazon, as accompanists.
If Miss Crossley comes back a prima-donna she
ceuldn’t evoke more enthusiasm than her benefit
did. All the florists’ shops in the town were
emptied at her feet; Sydney Liedertafel sent a
big floral lyre whizzing down a wire ladder like a
coal-shoot, and Mayor Manning neatly presented
her with an address for which she returned tearful
thanks from “ the bottom of her heart.” A satis-
fled thrill went thro’ the audience, as though they
had got their money’s worth, when Ada wiped her
syes with her fingers. Why did she cry? Well,
perhaps it was the Town Hall English.
Apropos. A sight of a recent concert was the
vision of a rival contralto who isn’t going Home
to develope the deep, deep G, enthusiastically
sending up a spiky bunch of pinks to the
soprano of the evening. Her little posy would
anly have been a drop in the bucket with the
heroine of the programme, but—set a singer to
snub a singer.
With the Crossley benefit still fresh in people’s
remembrance I would like to remind the generous
public of Sydney that there are one or two old
favourites in our midst who richly deserve a similar
compliment. Everybody remembers—for one—
Mr. Andrew Fairfax, the robust basso who, for so
many years, sang in company with the best
Artistes, but who never refused to give his valuable
services to any charity concert, no matter how
cbscure the object of it was. He is an old man
now, and I was grieved to hear the other day that
he is very poor and, through terrible ill-health,
unable to take employment. Mt would only be a
fair return to organise an attractive benefit for
this kindly singer who now so much needs what
he has so often cheerfully rendered to others.
I have received a copy of the “ Blue Mountains
Waltz,” by a lady composer—a squeaky tune in
ihree-four time which will not leave a bubble on
the sea of music, despite its dedication to the
latest Sydney ladyship. Which reminds me that
Maud Fitzstubbs’ “ Heather ” waltz has reached
its 13th edition—an unparalleled proceeding in
Australia—and is now the rage of Perth. Wes-
tralian showmen draw attention on their pro-
grammes to the fact that the orchestra will play
“the famous Heather Waltz, the rage of the
Eastern provinces.”
N.S.W. is this year to have a sort of abridged
prospectus of the Easter Encampment. Not the
full glory of a grand‘fit-out with all the officers
under canvas running short of afternoon-tea, and
inducing the reluctant society-girl visitor to take
split sodas instead, as used to happen in the good
old days—but a more sharp and business-like pro-
ceeding, I venture to say.
Whatever sort of a turn-out they afford, I only-
hope Major-General Hutton won’t man the field
with warriors mounted on the military bicycle—a
brand-new horror added to N.S.W. warfare, and
introduced, no doubt, to save forage. I met a
hero on a “safety ’’ only the other day careering
down a hill with his feet stuck out. He was a
gaudy soldier with a good many primary colours
to the square inch, and a rainbow band round ids
hat—a recruiting-sergeant would have looked a
inopoke beside him. I thought him like a
King .Lowry parrot on an egg-whisk, and for any
other purpose than advertising the performing
fleas or something of that sort, he would be a blot
on my vision.
I hear—in an oblique sort of way—that one or
two N.S.W. politicians, interested in the “Shall
we bury or burn ?” question, are trying to provoke
Guv’ment to build an oven wherein to cook the
dead. I hope they get it, though there are really
some most unsentimental points about cremation.
For instance, widows and widowers will re-marry
much earlier when we make snuff out of our
corpses than they do now. When the late John
Smith is burnt, he is annihilated and absolutely
got rid of. Even when he is burnt and his ashes
inurned on the widow Smith’s mantelpiece he is a
thousand million times more departed than he
would be were he buried. A burnt mmis as dead
as ever he will be, but, somehow or other, a
merely-buried one isn’t.
Apropos of the cool thousands legally demanded
from the fatherly co-respondent in a certain N.S.
Wales divorce-case and legally ordered to be
settled on the guilty wife and her child ; after this
is there any woman stupid enough to agitate for
female suffrage? Rather let woman revel in this
position—made plain as print by the Te Klcot
case—that Eve is not yet legally responsible for
throwing her cap over the mill as is poor hunted
Adam. While such decisions obtain, woman
should hold fast to the fashionable women’s-rights
that are masculine wrongs for the most part.
There is cheerful dressing to relieve the piebald
experiences of “ Hans the Boatman.’’ Henrietta
Watson was built for gored skirts, and gets a tight
fit in pale terra-cotta, and anon in cedar-brown,
but there is nothing to attract a woman’s opera-
glass in either garment. The realistic Miss W.,
by the way, gets in a very natural touch when she
sits on the water-lilies pa has just paid two (stage)
dollars for, in order to make room for Hans on
the rustic seat. What wom,an wouldn’t squash a
conservatory-full of ’em so that her summer-resort
beau may sit gracefully in her pocket? Which
further reminds me that “ Hans the Boatman ” is
an ideal play to finish up the summer season with.
When Gladys shows a disposition to tickle the
jolly young waterman under the chin one thinks
of the stories good-looking coach-drivers in the
recuperating districts have to tell you every
winter.
Charles Arnold, in a peppermint-striped Gondo-
lier cap topping his slate-grey suit, reminded me
of Charles Ryley with no grease-paint round his
eyes. Any diffident; youth who doesn’t know how
to approach his Venus ought to turn Hans into an
object-lesson. Mrs. Arnold, as Jeffie, sported
Jersey locks and a Dolly Varden dress in the first
act, but the neat grey gown and, blue sun-bonnet
was her nattiest rig-out—even beside the sweet
honeymoon toilet in chrysophrase-green silk, with
white insertion ad lih.^ and a light-and-airy hat.
Alluding to sun-bonnets, I am told that Mel-
bourne belledom took so frantically to these
florified night-caps last summer, when pursuing
out-door pastimes, that grave doubts were enter-
tained as to whether their ears weren’t growing
too largo for the erstwhile übiquitous “sailor”
hat? Young men objected in vain that they could
only see a frill and a bow for Angelina’s side-view
at the tennis-courts, but their moans met with
silent contempt, and the sun-bonnet reigned
triumphantly.
As a Darwinesque sort of theory, the notion
that woman is descended from a parrot wouldn’t
answer badly if intelligently argued Out. For
example, I sat near a girl the other night who
looked as if she would say “Pretty Joey ” if you
scratched her poll. Her garment was cheese-
yellow with red poppies on either shoulder, and
daring dabs of green, and startling lapses into
black. And all that parrokeetishness was sur-
mounted by a nose like a fish-hook and eyes
circled 4 'bird-wise with black rings ! I know it is
good taste to dress to suit personal idiosyncracy,
but at the same time a woman with a beak shaped
nose oughtn’t to wear a sulphhr-coloured feather
in her hair to make herself more like a cockatoo.
You might as well say that the husky lady who
weighs 15st. ought always to dress in elephant’s
breath !
Which reminds me that a woman once wrote to
me, explaining that her well-grown and attractive
daughter, whose appearance had made somewhat
of a sensation on the Block, wore skirts to her
knees and a big sun-bonnet as a cure for sunstroke.
I have pined ever since to know whether it was
the bare supports or the frilled head-gear that con-
stituted tire specific ? If Melbourne belledom
shortens its skirts to burlesque-point next summer
and still sticks to the sun-bonnet, it will seem to
argue that the calves have it.
A certain magnate hasn’t got a very winning
way with him—obviously hasn’t come out to make
himself popular. For instance, an ex-lieutenant,
who was hopelessly on His beam-ends, the other
day wrote to His Ex., asking him, for the sake of
the service they had mutually adorned, to give
him some assistance. And did that Governor
thrill with old reminiscences of camaraderie and
send him a bawbee or two? Not quite. The vice-
regal reply was a couple of soup-kitchen tickets
per medium of the Charity Organisation Secre-
tary !
Fillis’s Circus rnatineed last Saturday, and I
want to suggest that the shapely ladies who hung
by one eyelash from the top of the tent might put
on a little more sleeve when performing by day
than they do by night. I allude mqre particularly
to the black-and-yellow seraphs who hang on high
like a couple of wasps, and not to the pale-pink
lady in a crimson doublet slashed with blue and
silver, whose attire would do credit to the most
discreet tobacco-box. One plucky equestrienne
was hideously dressed in a white kilt and panta-
loons such as one’s grandmother wore as a 'child,
culminating in rose-pink stockings ; also, her hair
was hanging loose, and yet her arab steecDnever
shied at her ! lam led to believe that this get-up
is a copy, in circus colours, of the attire a woman
who straddles her mount usually adopts, and, if
so, I have no fear that cross-riding will ever
become a matter of choice in Australia.
I hear that Victoria’s most-gil'ded heiress is
announced as the fiancee of Mr. Everard Browne,
of Bailey’s Reward claim, son of “ Rolf Bold re-
wood.” By this marriage the lady, it is said,
forfeits the sum of .£70,000 —which was left her.by
her uncle, “ Tom ” Chirnside, on condition of her
marrying into the peerage.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's „ ‘‘The Shamrock and the
Rose.”
Criterion “ Hans the Boatman,”
Lyceum ‘‘The Amazons.”
Fillis’s Circus, Opposite Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's.. . “Paul Jones.”
Theatre Royal “ Struck Oil."
Alexandra “ The Shaughraua.”
Alhambra Variety Show.
A revised version of “Hans the Boatman”
was well received at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night. “ Hans ”is a dramatic mixture, largely
dependent on the name-part, and a play that it is
possible for one man (and a dog) to haul along to
fame is always sure to hit the mark, provided you
have a star in the lead. Charles Arnold plays
Hans as if the_ melodies and vagaries of that
attractive Arcadian came natural to him, and is
excellently supported by the taking Henrietta
Watson in the ungrateful part of Gladys.
» • •
Dob Frederics makes a militant and inex-
haustible Jeffie in green stockings and red hair.
Her singing-voice is a reminiscence of Alice
Leamar, only that A.L. wouldn’t have sung so
sickly a ballad as “The Spirit>of the Lake,” even
if the management had gone on its knees to her.
Dot Frederics’ clear and' confidential soprano
would find its best opportunity in something like
“ Whacky-whack.” Little Jessie Mead, the small
Hans and the fetching, but rather over-done, Baby
Coquetth, deserve the fearful term of “ infant
prodigy,” and “ Nord ”, stars as usual. By the
way, the baby-coquette oughtn’t to ask Hans to
sit on her knee. It is a false note and spoils the
whole scene.
* • •
One striking novelty about “Hans the
Boatman ’ is .the attire of the villainy Darrell
Vincent. It is generally conceded to be impos-
sible to make hay 'of the decalogue on the stage in
anything short of a tall, shiny hat and patent-
leather boots, bat the only suggestion of iniquity
about Albert 'Lucas is a cigarette; and,that has
an uphill fight to imply cold and calculating
depravity against the virtuous 'influence of a hard
brown hat and' a meek turn-down collar. The
mission in life of Mr. Lucas is evidently to be a
stage detective, with occasional lapses into doing
odd jobs for the villain. Frank Cates, as the
spoony lieutenant, only leaves the impression that
he wants hi.s hair out; and Lachlan M‘Gowan,
as the belligerent boatman, and George Lash
Gordon, as the petrified parent, throw no new
light on these people. A flourishing baby-farm is
suggested by the rest of the caste.
** * *
Business fell off badly at Sydney Lyceum
in the last days of “Jo.” But the record for un-
precedented badness was readied when “The
Grasshopper” took the stage on Saturday night.
The big theatre never struck such a patch of utter
collapse and desolation before. * The Grass-
hopper ” is the worst thing of its kind The Bulle-
tin remembers. It almost bdongs to the crude
variety of comedy which an infant perpetrates
with an inky thumb-nail in a copy-book, and it
contains about every kind and varietyof foolishness
which could be compressed intb the space. There
are many old motherless jokes in it, and the original
pun which was saved in the Ark has been disinterred
frorn its well-earned rest, and carefully inserted as
a 'thing to be proud of. Bright, little Jennie Lee
keeps “The Grasshopper ” afloat, and is the sole
support of an utterly undeserving production.
Why this clever lady chooses to waste
her ability upon it is a mystery which
is never likely to be solved. Saturday night’s
audience took “ The Grasshopper ” in profound
and smileless silence, but it did its beat to cheer
the leading lady to the echo. Only there wasn’t
enough of it to make an echo, and the general
effect was that of one cockroach applauding in a
b L rn ‘ (Thursday) is the! vst of the season,
when Miss Lee bids a long iarewell to Aus-
tralia. It ought to be a great, warm, enthusiastic
occasion with a dense crowd standing on each
others’ heads, but the shadow of “ The Grass-
hopper ” is over it, and Jennie’s farewell will
probably be about the saddest thing that ever
happened to her.
** * »
Tbe Brough and. Boucicault Co., the finest
comedy company that ever existed in Australia,
and one of the finest either in Australia or any-
iTmi re e^se ’ °P ens a t the Lyceum on Saturday in
Ihe Amazons.” The great feature of the
season is to be “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,”
which is expected to be a record-breaker.
** * *
Sydney Royal, which has lately developed
the shutting-up disease in an agggravated form,
closed some more last week ainid considerable con-
fusion. Du Monday night most of the orchestra
was visibly on strike, and the balance wore an
aggravated expression. Also, the co. had thinned
out considerably, and what remained of it could
be heard arguing behind the curtain. On Tues-
day there was.no oreheatra at all and no co., and,
after some feeble attempts at explanation, the
audience demanded its njioney back. Then there
was the usual desire to break things ; the police
came along, and proceedings closed with the
accustomed objurgations on the pavement. The
Royal has lately struck a patch of tolerably hard
luck, and unless Maggie Moore returns its pro-
spects seem rather desolate.
George Rignold’s Anglo-Irish drama is
doing- such good business that the next outbreak
°f “Lights of London” has been postponed in-
definitely. _ This is a bad time for everything,
more especially for six-aot melodrama, but Henry
V. keeps his big show going through good and
bad fortune.
«« m «
Good old S,t. Patrick’s annual festival, last
Saturday, was celebrated at Sydney Royal with
the‘‘Colleen Bawn.” The performance was for
the benefit of Messrs. Arthur Vivian and Tom
King, but the former, owing to a severe lameness
in the throat, could not appear, and the drama
was thus shorn of some of its glories. Also, the
audience was much thinner than the show
deserved, partly through a general lack of interest
in Sb. Patrick, partly because the “Colleen” is
not what it was, and partly because the curse of
the Royal lies heavily on the old house. The
worm that dieth not was in the takings, and
Arthur Vivian, an excellent comedian, who has
drifted by mistake into the wastes of gory melo-
drama, deserved better fortune.
«* * *
Fillis’s Circus opened its Sydney season
with the biggest crowd that the huge tent could!
hold, and there is every sign of a continuous boom.
The circus is very much the same as it was on its
last visit, bub even if it was a great deal more so
it would probably boom just the same. There is
a vast amount of it for the money, and most of it
is good. Perhaps the best feature is the Feeley
family of acrobats—a combination which will
assuredly break its neck someday. The “stag-
hunt,” too, seems to have caught on, and the other
items are feeling pretty well.
** * *
The N.S.W. Agricultural Society’s show
will be opened at noon to-day (Thursday) by the
Governor. A luncheon follows. The live stock
entries are more numerous than ever before, and
the exhibition will be unusually attractive and
complete.
»* * *
Miss Middleton, an accomplished young
lady who has just returned to her native N.S.W,
after some years at Leipsic, will make her Aus-
tralian debftt as a pianist in Sydney within the
next fortnight.
»* * *
“ La Mascot-te,” at Melbourne Princess’s,
has probably caused a slight fall in the financial
barometer. People are beginning to lose faith in
this tadpole opera, with its large, round head and
thin, tapering tail. Audran’s charming music is
not as young as it was., also the best of it has
been heard by 9.20 p.m., and when the plot loses
all comedy interest, which happens before the
close of the second act, nothing remains for “ La
Mascotte” but to file its artistic schedule. The
show has gone bung. A wild pas de trods in the
last act tries to hide the real state of affairs, but
the restoration of public confidence is only fpr a
moment. Rocoo and his royal master throw in a
new gag or two every night and play like true
comedians as long as there is airy cqmedy to deal
with. The musical numbers are made the very
most of, the pages who propose to raffle Bettina
within the precincts of tire court are gilt-edged
pages, and many other matters are unexception-
able. Nevertheless, Melbourne will not rend its
garments when the opera retires this (Thursday)
evening.
• • •
“ Paul Jones,” a work to memory dear,
will inaugurate ,a deadly struggle between old and
new associations on Saturday next. Nellie
Stewart, of the original cast, is to have Ryley for
her bold buccaneer, whilst some other members
of the Princess’ company should.be well placed.
** * *
At the Royal an exuberantly Milesian
audience achieved a record attendance last Satur-
day night. The house was crammed everywhere,
and this for a performance of Boucicault’s oldest
and far from best of Irish dramas. Maggie Moore
and company don’t give a great account of them-
selves in “The Colleen Bawn.” The Colleen is
not sufficiently demonstrative to suit a bouncing
patriotic actress like Miss -Maggie. When she
throws off her artless simplicity and gives them the
“Wearing of the Green” the effect is incon-
gruous. Miss Deorwyn and Stewart, junr., made
a commendable second pair of lovers, H. E.
Roberts is a pleasant Myles, whilst J. P. West
overacts the part of Danny in a promising manner.
But the roar of Augustus Glover and the make-up
of John lord©are sad features of a generally dis-
appointing entertainment. Easter Saturday at
the Royal is fixed as the date of the “ Struck Oil ”
revival. Advertisements speak of “Sir John
Madden, LL.D,, having Refused the Application
°f J- O. Wilhamgon to stop the Production of
‘Struck Oil.’” Which doesn’t seem quite a fair
announcement, seeing that the application wasn’t
carried along to the bitter end, nor did the Yic-
torian-Irish Judge do more than refuse to stop
the play from being advertised in advance.
However, all s fair in theatrical business, per-
haps. Maggie Moore, whose historical perform-
ance of Lizzie. Stofel needed no law-wrangle
to boom it, has been considerably boomed all the
same, and “ Struck Oil ” promises to go big.
*« * *
The halls are in a state of Easter excite
ment, too. the little Victoria is about to re-open,
after a long vacation, under the style of the
Alcazar. Coghill Bros, are entering into posses-
sion of the Gaiety, where they will “adhere to
their old motto, Refinement,” and the-Alhambra
is preparing a fresh programme to cope with these
rival outbreaks. Melbourne is unduly busy in
the show line, and somebody is certain to feel
sorry shortly.
»* * *
“ The Shaughran,” as set up last Saturday
at the Alexandra, is so much better than several
previous renderings of the same drama at higher
prices that it ought, by comparison, to run for
three months. Measured by the tariff of charges
for admission this is a colossal triumph. Even
the fortress, which is expected to go wrong on its
pivot at a first performance, accomplished a
peaceful revolution, and the venerable mechanical
change, that has been starred in a thousand bills,
came off absolutely without a hitch. Dan Barry,
being Irish by profession and alive to the fit-
ness of things where the ould sad is con-
cerned, has inflated the company with a
special engagement of Martyn Hagan. Hagan
brings a good brogue and a lively style into
the name - part, and his humour is consider-
able. Miss Edith Appleton is the sweetest little
Moya seen in Melbourne since Nina Boucicault


DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHA.T IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can bo
got for sevenpence ; but if the ruling prices for the best is eightpenoe, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpenoe, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you 7 Will you do your business at
3xr t xac o uxr "sr o r d e h. uxt’sb ?
ANTHONY HORDERN'S ?
80 THAT YOU MAT REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY ISI
BVT EYERYT INO nt ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
may do your shopping, through the y medium of the post, on the same forms mid getting the
same goods nt the same prices as iff you lived in town,
ONLY ADDRESS of the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS ;
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAY MARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION)
GASH BONUS
DISTRIBUTION
Of Profits to Po'ioy-holdera every Month as follows:
IST CASH BONUS, £4OOO
2nd „ „ 2000
40 CASH BONUSES at £25
50 ~ „ 10
200 „ „ „ 5
200 „ at £2 10
Under the Co.’s system of ballot it Is possible for the
holder of a policy for £25 to receive six (6) separate cash
bonuses of the total value of £4092 10s., and for the
holder of a policy of £lOO to receive twenty-three (23)
separate cash bonuses of the total value of £7870.
A Policy for £25 can be obtained for a
premium.
A Policy for £lOO can be obtained for a
premium.
Press ane) Policy-holders present at all ballots.
Address Personally or by Letter—G. R. WEBB,
The A.coidlent Coupon.
Insurance Co. of KT.Y,
12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.B.j
■2/6
10/-
departed. She realises the character very wm-
Bornely and the scene in Father Doolan s (Apple-
ton vere) kitchen, where Conn strengthens the
tea from a whisky bottle, has never been more
naturally acted. Dan Barry’s hobgoblin disguise is
the chief complaint laid against Harvey Duff, who
might with advantage elaborate bis terror at the
finish Miss Lilia Wilde shines with an uncertain
light and several other people, including the chief
mourners at the wake, are reasonably stage-Insh.
A new-ehum British officer betrays symptoms of
a Kerry accent every now and then. Since “ The
Shaughraun” is such a praiseworthy Haleckian
effort it may delay the dread hour when Unci
Tom and little Eva will pay their intended visit.
** * *
Miss Lalla Miranda, who is about to fly to
Europe, will take with her the best wishes of
Australia’s concert-going public. To hear this
gifted young vocalist tune her lay, in the sweetest
and most flexible of light soprano voices, is only a
little more delightful than to see her perform the
task. Her platform stylo, as pretty as her name,
always gave promise of that acting ability which
was lately shown in opera performances at Mel-
bourne Exhibition. The daughter of a well-known
teacher of music and singing, Lalla Miranda was
born into her profession, and made her first ap-
pearances at an age when most damsels are
wrestling with the rudiments of musical educa-
tion. Six years ago, if we remember rightly, she
carried off first prize in a singing competition for
“juveniles” of sixteen. Miss Miranda, anyway,
is very young and very charming. She warbles
like the nightingale, and is otherwise deserving of
the success which lies before her.
Miss LALLA MIRANDA,
At Poverty Point.
Thirty gold medals are to be given in Melb. for a baby-
ghow—no, a church choir competition. The next step is
the chorus of the Amateur Opera Co. ; then the fair
chorister becomes a principal, and hankers for the regular
boards. We can give chapter and verse—but no matter.
“ Treasury ” at a certain theatre the other Monday gave
each of the co. (principals, chairwarmers, high-kickers,
and all) 4s. for a week’s work.
“Bill Adams ” Snazelle says that a South African miner
went to a newspaper office to insert a few lines in memory
of his father, and, asking the charge, was told 2s. 6d. per
inch, “ Great Scott! I can’t afford it—my father was six-
foot-two.”
J. W, Sweeney, the very best and,most permanent priest
and policeman on the Australian stage, is leaving Geo.
Rignold’s Co., and will run a skew of his own in partner-
ship with Charles Holloway.
W. and M.’s next Christinas attraction—a new,Gaiety
Burlesque Co., with Arthur Roberts and Florence St.
John to lead. Dew tell!
Premier Patterson,ukases that the alterations required
by the Board of Health, for the safety of Melbourne
theatres, are to be done at once, even if it implies closure.
Scrap from a Melbourne erttiojsm of “ 49,” at the
Royal: “Off the stage Ms. Fotdfe is a'rigid teetotaller.
This fact makes his study of the hard-drinking ‘ general ’
a curious as well as a creditable piece of acting.” And
yet the writer does not give the heavy villain any extra
credit for his performance because he is not an occasional
murderer and a eonfirmed bigamist and horse-thief off the
boards.
Dear Bulletin, —A suggestion. One by one our bright
partieular stars take the long journey northward to shine
in other worlds than ours. Melba, Frances Saville, Pattie
Browne have gone, so have the two Cunninghams and
Morton. Ada Crossley goes this month; Lalla Miranda
follows, and it is also on the sards that Mary Weir and
Violet Varley go shortly. They are. all most like]y lost to
us. Now, instead of letting our operatic treasure dribble
away in drops like this, why does pot soiqe enterprising
and speculative syndicate—“the Firm” are enterprising
—take to Britain and America a completely-furnished
opera co., just to show J. Bull and Brother Jonathan that
Australia can do more than turn out cricketers, oarsmen,
and pugilists ? There’s money in the idea. JUst tell ms
whether, from the following list, you could not select a
complete comic opera co. equal to any in London or the
States: Nellie Stewart, Frances Saville, Colbourne Baber,
Flo Graupner, VI Varley, Ida Osborne, Florence Young,
May Pollard, Pattie Browne, Dooy Stewart, Male Saqui,
Mary Weir and the eight Princess Ballerinas; Roland
Cunningham, Charlie Harding, Syd. Deane, Howard
Vernon, Tom Grundy, Billy D’Ensem, Will Xewers.—
Yours, Steele Grey.
The cast of “The Amazons,” to be staged by the
B. and B. 00. on Saturday, at Sydney Lyceum, will be
practically the same as that of the former Criterion per-
formance. Miss Major will play the part of Sergeant
Shuler, but otherwise there is no change. That beautiful
and successful idiot, Lord Tweenwayes, will be repre-
sented again by Cecil Ward, who has. already made him
the' most celebrated ass who ever struck this country ;
and Boucicault’s Frenchman—the most perfect character
of its kind The Bulletin remembers—couldn’t be altered
except for the worse. Likewise the athletic Edith Blande,
the only actress in Australia who could possibly look like
the mother of the boy-girls, is again to appear in that
capacity.
Tapley and Vi. Varley will probably leave for England
as man and wife in August.
“ Mr. Anson’s style has a breadth which takes Eccles
from the humour of comedy to that of melodrama.”—
Saturday Review.
At Adelaide Cycloratna, a neat illusion, the figure of
Napoleon stalking the field of Waterloo, has been intro-
duced. Napoleon is impersonated by one J. B. Morley,
said to be a nephew of John Morley, the Irish Chief Sec.
The resemblance, both as to face and figure, is most
remarkable.
The hysterics of two fairly well-known Sydney song-
stresses now on tour with an opera eo. in the back blocks,
recall Rudyard K.’s description of hysterics in a girl’s
school. First the contralto started to drum on the floor
with her heels, and then the golden-haired soprano
followed suit from sheer sympathy—upon which scene
the distracted male management lowered the curtain for
fear the infection would spread orer the house. Kipling
explains how tt goes from girl to girl in “ Soldiers
Three.”
The Most-Travelled, while in England, almost eaptured
Beerbohm Tree; hut Mrs. Tree would not face the sea-
journey. There is hope yet, though.
The other night a gilt-edged johnnie, having fixed
Harwood with his glittering eye-glass, pitched him a
tragic tale about a cruise he had had in the hay, and how,
not being lively enough when the lugger put about, he
was nearly knocked overboard, bai Jove ! Then he wound
up with; u Were you ever hit by a boom, deahboy?”
Uncle Cattermole, who is one of the worst boom-struck
men in Melbourne, is said to have risen up and murdered
that dude on the spot.
Justice Hood didn’t wear a wet towel round his head
the night before he summed up in the Mercantile ease.
He was sitting, grinning, in the front row of Princess’
dress-circle, at Howard Vernon’s Lord High Executioner
foolery.
Lalla Miranda is to have a farewell concert at Melbourne
Town Hall on April 7.
The Wild-Cat Column.
Mr. Justice Hood’s recent remarks upon lawyers’
money transactions, and his doctrine of legal morality
therein to be found, is a roundabout reminderthat Matthew
Davies belongs to the legal “push,’ and that other lawyers
were also implicated in certain Melbourne companies
whose directors have thus far escaped the severer forms of
trouble.
« • * •
A case is down on the N.S.W. Full Court list
by which it is proposed to settle, as a matter of dry law,
the question wheth r the Northern Associated Collieries
Association is not an illegal association, on the eround
that it is “in restraint of trade.” Trades-unionists and
Labour politicians should follow the legal arguments with
interest. The disputed point may cut several ways.
* * ’* *
A lot of the notes originally circulated by Syb-
il y Deposit Bank (proprietor Richardson is now in quo I)
are heing traded off in detail. They are most < labor; t ly
finished, and are just the things f >r a clever rogue to pass
upon the unwary. As the ostensible values range from
£1 to £lOO, they are admirably adapted to confidence-
trick uses.
* * * •
It doesn’t look well to see a trust co. opposing
the appointment, by the heirs-at-law of an estate it is
managing, of a solicitor to represent them. The very life
of such companies depends upon the joint-control of
estates.
♦ * • *
“ I was in Melbourne all the afternoon of the
day on which the Mercantile Bank prosecutions ended,”
writes a correspondent, “and only heard one newsboy cry
the fact. The interest in it was as dead as the land-boom
it resulted from, and the verdict was a foregone conclu-
sion.”
* * * *
Apropos the Melb. municipal electric-light. It
is reported that the local gas co. still believes in free
competition—for gas-stokers.
• * * *
The latest Sydney dodge is for a prominent in-
solvent, running a Sydney “commercial” business, to
describe himself in his schedule as (say) “X. Smith,
grazier, of VVoollahra,” instead of (say) "X. Smith, com-
mission-agent.” The daily press lets it go as “grazier”
and makes no comments, and so hardly anybody knows
that Mr. X. Smith, of the well-known firm of agents,
X. Smith and Son, has “gone up.”
• * • *
Tiger Inglis seems to have got ex-Governor
Jersey on the London board of his Oremorne (Port Jack-
son) Coal Mining Co. It is also stated that Panmuro
Gordon threatens to underwrite a large number of shares.
By the way, it would be interesting to look up the exact
text of some of the adulatory speeches concerning Gov.
Jersey delivered by Tiger just before the amiable Jersey’s
departure. In the light of present events, they are cal-
culated to make one think hard.
* * * *
S.M, Herald headlines a par.; “Attempted
Robbery by a Boy.” Amount, 9d. Punishment, a day’s
cells
Attempted robbery by a boy,
It seems by this, is crime more rank
Than that most frequent local joy—
Successful robbery by a bank.
♦ « » *
The Standard Bank of British South Africa
doesn’t pay interest on fixed deposits. For every £4O
deposited in the bank the depositor'is charged 15s .per
quarter for"’the trouble of looking after it. Some Irish
banks do this also, but their charges are not so stiff and
vary according to the trouble incurred. However, the
money is there when you want it. From an Australian
point of view, all things taken into consideration, the
system has its advantages.
* * * *
Late Southern events have emboldened the
Smith-Howe-Abigail sympathisers to try and get their
gang out of gaol. The ruin they wrought is already for-
gotten, and 99 N.S. Wales M.’sP., headed by the Speaker,
sigh a petition for release 1 The verdicts which gaoled
these people were about the only sweet spots in the
financial rottenness of the last five years, and nothing
could more conclusively show than does this petition how
low are the existing standards of Parliamentary morality.
Meantime, the brutal Sikes languishes uncared-for.
• * * •
The reconstructed Q.N. Bank, which has looked
up between £2,000,000, and £3,000,000 Govt, money,
recently directed South Brisbane municipality to impose
an extra rate of Jd. in the £, as otherwise the Bank didn’t
think the municipality could meet its engagements.
Anybody who knows, has heard, or has dreamt of cooler
financial cheek is requested to le)t us know.
• * * •
The complete schedule of that Melbourne firm
is awaited with interest. Thus far, the figures given are
incomprehensible. How could a wholesole grocery and
wine business, with only £lB,OOO of assets, contract a
debt of £79,000 to the Commercial Bank ? This, by the
way, was presumably one of the accounts which James
Service thought it would be “inadvisable to investigate”
before the bank’s reconstruction was accomplished by
Fat Man and the admiring Press.
* ♦ ♦ »
One considerable shareholder in the deceased
Federal Bank was four months old when he bought his
shares, and another was aged five years. It is alleged
that this shareholder’s gee-gee is going to be attached for
calls.
* * * *
Judge Hood has made an order that the con-
tributories of the Freehold Investment Banking Co.
(Melb.) shall pay up £1,362,141 of indebtedness forthwith.
There are many such orders floating around in
structed Melbourne these times, and their value is just
about what they will fetch at the paper mill.
• * ♦ •
A correspondent The last .N.S.W. quarterly
returns sjhow a decrease in advances, compared with the
previous quarter, of £1,342,949, and an increase in coin
and bullion on hand of £257,379 1 Tt money continues to
be withdrawn from circulation at thisuafe, it requires no
phenomepal prevision to foresee what will happen to the
communfty at large ; and as "coin and bullion ” lying in
a bank’s ooffers earn rather less than the average Domain
loafer, it is difficult to see how these institutions can hope
to meet their engagements in the future, if they continue
to persist in their present policy.
* * • *.
It is worth mentioning these parlous times that
the total shortage, after an exhaustive audit of Burwooa
(Sydney) municipal accounts for past 12 months, is 2s. 4a.
The unhappy wretch of a town-clerk who, after shooting
the Maypr, blew out his own brains, was, at all events, not
a thief.
» • • •
The golden trowel, last week presented by
Major Bennie, of the Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New
York, to N.S.W. Premier Dibbs at the laying of the
corner-stone of the Mutual Life’s splendid Sydney office,
is said to have cost £2OO.
» * ♦ •
Libel law comes in again over the Investors’
Review, and Bank of England. Wilson, with his handful
of truth, could only open his little fingers, and then comes
a chorus of denial, from the venal, or ignorant, press.
Now it is evident he knew all about May’s quarter-of-a-
million, and the hushing up of the Times.
• * • •
Melbourne banks are now loaded up with un-
saleable city and suburban property, left on their hands
by borrowers, who found it cheaper to let it go than to
pay up the advances, to the nominal value of nearly
£20,000,000. It will, doubtless, realise that amount, or
even more, some day, but then no one knows when that
day will be. At forced sale just now it would probably
fetch £5,000,000, and, as that would mean general insol-
vency, Giere is nothing for itjmt to hold on. The situa-
tion is exactly that of the mail’ who holds a wild bull by
the tail: if he can keep the tail from slipping till the
animal dies of old age he is all right, but if he can’t then
it is all up with him. Meanwhile, when bank shares, 60s.
paid-up, are selling at 55., it means that the public con-
siders there is just one chance in twelve that the tail
doesn’t slip.
♦ * * *
The Q.N. Bank’s shares (70s. paid up) have
been on offer in Sydney at 2s. 6d., with no buyers.
• » » *
lb is interesting to learn that “ financial circles”
in Melbourne strongly disapprove of the Government
borrowing money locally at 4 per cent, and getting it At
par, instead of floating loans at a serious discount in
London. “Financial circles” consist mostly of recon-
structed bankers, and these persons realise that if the
only safe investment going can he shut up, the public
must trust its money again to the old shaky institutions,
which otherwise it would much prefer to leave alone.
Therefore “financial circles” are solid on the fact that
local borrowing is a curse, and that British borrowing is
the only genuine article.
* » ♦ ♦
Some of the Australian banks have the bump
of gratitude largely developed. In many cases it hap-
pened that the same customer had a large fixed deposit
and a good-sjzed overdraft on current account. When
the deposit was safely reconstructed for eight years or so,
it demanded, with a piratical aspect, immediate pay-
ment of the overdraft. The customer, who couldn’t pay,
generally tendered his deposit-receipt as security. Some-
times it was accepted; but one bank flatly refuses to
regard its own promise to pay as any security at all. The
best it will do is to buy back its own deposit at about
15s. or 16s. In the £, and pay itself the overdraft out of
the proceeds, and if this offer isn’t accepted it sells the
customer up.
« * * *
R. Hope Atkinson, a gentleman in the
mysterious “ property distribution ” business, was
arrested last week in Sydney for unlawfully running a
lottery. Considering, however-, that the Atkinson lottery
has been running in its own fitful, unsatisfactory way
for a year or more, there is something wildly humorous
about arresting the promoter now for his unlawful
gamble, which is no more unlawful to-day than it was 12
months ago. If common report goes for anything the
detective force has had its eye on the affair for many
months past; and why nothing came of it until now is a
mystery.
• « * *
Mr. Bulletin, — Tojgive you an idea of the
state of unemployed miners at Broken Hill. If a man
wants a job at the big mine he goes to see the manager,
who tells him to go to the foremen, who tell him to call at
the mine-office. We go there in the morning 100 strong,
and stand like cattle in a drafting-yard. By and by the
window opens, and Capt. Williams puts his head out and
phints his finger at the biggest man, with all his Sunday
clothes on and no sign of lead on his face—-most likely a
new arrival. There is work for him, and the next, and
the next; but those most in want of work—little men
with bad clothes and large families—cannot get it. It is
very disappointing to walk home day after day, week
after week, and month after month, and hear the wife say,
No luck again, Bill 1” Mr. Bulletin, I am a little man
with a big- family and a lot of lead on my'face, and my
clothes are worn out looking for w.ork. Will you ask
Capt. Williams to give us a show T—l am, A Respectful
Unemployed.
• * * *
Q, February returns: —Towers, 18,379 tons,
20,180 oz., divs. £18,425; Gympie, 7912'tons, 8117 oz.,
divs. £13,300; Croydon, 2510 tons, 3929 oz.; Mount
Morgan, 5770 tons, 7670 oz.
» * » »
Pritchard Morgan carting about London
some magnificent specimens of golden qpartz, recently
found in the Morgan mine in Wales. All the Welsh'mines
are “pocketty;” as much as £30,000 worth has been
taken ouf of one pocket—and more than as much lost
searching in vain for another. It is to he hoped, for
Pritchard’s sake, that he .has dropped upon something
permanent. He makes Bdwt. stuff pay.
* • * *
Halley, inventor of the percussion concentrating
table used a"t nearly every battery at Bendigo as well a.s
throughout all Australia, died the other day, aged 78.
The patent ran out this season but, just ere dying, he
patented an improvement of the cheapest, if not of the
best, concentrator used in Australia.
* * » *
X). D. Rosewarne, a well-known mining man,
writes from London in opposition to the proposal of S.A.
Govt, to erect cyanide works on the ground that cyanide
is not a universal gold-solvent; that it was njade for the
Randt gold, which is the finest jn the world, and the per-
centage of gold saved there by the two processes, amal-
gamation and cyaniding, is not equal to that saved else-
where by amalgamation alone.
» * * *
Yefctha M'Arthu.r-Fornest process, which is being
successfully worked by S.A. Govt., threatens to open up
a big gold-mining industry. Over £lOO9 worth of goja
was most profitably extracted from ore at grass at one
abandoned mine.
♦ * » *
Another creep at Broken Hill—on the South
Central boundary, not on the Proprietary this time.
Slight trouble arose at this point two years ago. Being
on the^ boundary each manager scornfully points to ths
other man’s defective timbering as the cause.
South directors point out that the fall in silver
affects the mine little. Sulphide concentrates, the mine’s
sole output at present, contain only 9oz. to lloz. silver
per ton ; Id. per ounce silver fall, therefore, cannot in-
volve a difference of more than 9d. or lid. per ton.
Under present methods of disposal the 00. gets nothing for
this silver.
* * * •
Recent Waukaringa (S. A.) finds have produced
the ghost of a gold-boom at Broken Hill. Someone was
seen carrying a peg recently ; same day 40 claims were
pegged out, and not a colour has yet been found in one of
them. The likeliest claim has a shaft which has been for
years the defunct-goat repository of the neighbourhood
and'must possess a large deposit (of bone-dust material)
by now.
• • • •
Broken Hill, says a recent visitor, was named
by people with prophetic vision. At present the town
carries more broken-down mining sharks to the acre than
any other mining town in Australia. Those who were
able have long ago fled to W.A., and the hopelessly dead-
beat section remains hanging on in the hope of something
turning up—4o spiders to one fly.
* * * •
B.H. Proprietary run, last week, all but a
quarter-million oz. of silver from a little over 10,000 tons
ore. Silver now stands at about 2s. 3Jd.
* « « •
The Bulletin hopes tose© the N.S.W. Minister
for Mines set his face like a flint against leasing at
Wyalong, and compel every holder of ground to work it,
under pain of forfeiture, it is said that a petition, signed
by 500 would-be leaseholders, has been sent to head-
quarters. So far, the gold appears to have been found
solely on conditional purchases or conditional leases,
which cannot be converted into mining leases, and the
result is that the claims are held as blocks by men who
really mean work. It is the public interest to tide as
many small and independent labourers over the winter as
the field will carry.
» « • *
Total Wyalong to date are 4740 z. from
173 tons, Supplied by 11 claims—a good, but not a brilliant
average for “a poor man’s field.” Wyalong has this in
its favour, however, that it’s mostly pick and shovel
work, and latest impressions seem to show that
the gold-bearing area is much more extensive than
originally supposed. Yet the 3000 men now on the field,
“and crowds arriving,” will evidently have to struggle
for tucker, and as there is no available work on wages,
men must go prepared to feed themselves until they turn
something up.
• * • *
Peak Hill Proprietary, 640 tons for equal to
291 oz.
* * * *
Payable alluvial reported near Murrnmburrab
(N.5.4V.). Of course the ground is locked up—miners
have to pay 25 per cent, royalty for the right to work.
Yet it is the Crown which owns the gold ! Mineral mono-
poly is a blessed institution.
* • • »
One bit of opal picked at White Cliffs (N.S.W.)
last week by W. Q. M’Kenzie weighs 14oz. and is valued
at £420.
•** * .
Kurnalpi news keeps good. Fraser’s at
Southern Cross crushed 450 tons for 1590 z. A rich shoot
at the 200 ft. level was reported on Saturday, and shares
in Bayley’s Reward jumped from l§s. to 235. on Adelaide
’Change. From time to time people may expect to see
the total market-value of Bayley’s vary £250,000 in a day.
The right crowd are “ on (the job.”
* * * »
Great rains have fallen at Coolgardie — that is,
great for Coolgardie, though under a quarter-inch alto-
gether. Siberia was the only place which didn’t get any,
and Southern Cross had nearly an inch. The outside dis-
tricts got up to 2in. But the miners have only fallen
from thirst into famine. Population haying grown faster
than transport, provisions are running short: tinned meat,
4s. to 6s. per lb., and flour £6 per 601 b., and unobtainable
at that.
• • * •
The W.A. water conservation-department, is
delighted with the success of its new plan for utilising
great rocks in that weary land. It runs a wall round the
top of them to serve as a'spouting, and saves alt the water
which falls in their catchment-area.
* * * •
Murchison Miner, W.A., tells of an English
prospecting party, manned by Englishmen and equipped
with English money, “ now on its way bet ween Cue and
Geraldton. The party, which looks like Sara Bernhardt
on tour, is a bit slow in travelling, being 21 days out from
Geraldton, but as it is eheumbered with feather pillowS,
spring mattresses, seltzogenes and other essential ex-
ploring requisites this is only to They are
well-discipHnecl, and upon reaching Lake Austin indulged
in a bath, each member being,attired in swimming-trunks
in accordance with the laws of decency and the rules of
the party.”
* * * »
W.A. discoveries of big surface patches of reef
gold recall the big find of Dr. Kerr at the Turon in 1851.
Kerr, who was related by marriage to the Suitor family,
had an aboriginal in his employ who was out in the bush
one day minding 'sheep, and he discovered some gold
quartz sticking out of the ground. He informed his
master, who rode out to the spot and unearthed a block
about a foot in diameter weighing 751bs. gross, out of
which over 60Ibs. pure gold was taken. Two other blocks
yielded 311 bs. gold. Dr. Machattie purchased the gold
at £3 7s. 6d. per ounce, the total coming to £4160. The
hundredweight of gold afterwards passed into the hands of
Messrs. Thacker and Co., and was then seized by Govt, on
the plea that it was found on Crown land by an unlicensed
geßson and a certain percentage of it belonged to the
rown. It was returned, however, in a short time, less
£4O for its escort frotii Bathurst to Sydney.
• » • ♦
Tall! A Sydney D.T. correspondent (Oool-
gardie):—“The biggest claim on the field, not even
excepting Bayley’s, is lease No. 35, belonging to Sterne
and party. Beef 100 ft. thick, 11 chains lopg, and 40ft.
above surface, and wherever tried gees 2J to 20 ounces to
ton; 80,000 tons in sight, oompu.ted to carry 3oz. to ton
as a minimum.”
* » ♦ »
Recent Q, crushings: Charters Towers—Brilliant
and St. George, 302 tons, 2300 z.; Stockholm tributors,
141 tons, 116 oz. ; Mills United, 1950 tops, 2100 oz.; 1 East
Sunburst tributors, 200 tons, 3380 z.; Victory, No. 2 shaft,
385 tons, 588 oz. Gympie—2 North Phoenix, 212 tons,
180 oz. ; div., 2d.; New Monkland Tribute, 220 tons,
ISOoz. ; No, 2 Eastern, 1360 tons, 1004 oz.; div.. Is.;
Golden Pile, 222 tons, 11240 z. retorted ; div., Is. 3d.
• * » •
Latest from Mt. Lyell;—Ore raised : 200 bags,
weighing \2 tons scwt. 2qr., and containing 16,4650 z. of
silver, or an average of 1340 z. of silver and 24J per cent, of
copper per ton, have been raised and sampled. Ore des-
patched: 332 bags, weighing 16 tons 19cwt. 3qr;, and
containing 28,0220 z. of silver and 4 tons 7cwt. of copper,
have been taken away by the packers.
* • * *
New Pinafore (gold) Tas. div. 9d. a share.
Total divs. now £67,000, equal to £ll3s. 9d. a share.


The Oldßlervd
WKisKy
oflK - e ,f£ Horse
Cellar
WHI'
DIRECT VROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLOW
MATURED SCOTCH HALT
din burgh
mmm
mmmm
Hill
At
m
W4>
2C
iMillMifcil
mill
kllihii
Cilliiis
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
NEURALGIA,
NERVOUSNESS,
TOOTHACHE,
WEAKNESS AND
GENERAL DEBILITY
QUICKLY AND POSITIVELY CURED BY
CLEMENTS TONIC.
WHICH RESTORES
THE VIGOUR, SNAP AND HEALTH
OF YOUTH.
Mr. Charles E. Howard, Royal Hotel, Morpeth,
N.S.W_., who writes on February 3rd, 18931
have since early school-days been more or less a
victim to the most excruciating pains in the chest,
attributed to chronic indigestion ; they caused me
no end of trouble and pains and even anxiety;
restlessness in my sleep, accompanied by the most
horrid dreams; each morning brought forth a
more languid feeling than the last. Having tried
all kinds of remedies without good effect, I was at
last induced to try Clements Tonic. After taking
three bottles of this wonderful health-giving
remedy a complete change came over my system,
for I feel I am now perfectly cured. lam only
too happy to add my testimony to the number you
have already received, hoping that this may meet
the eye of some other sufferer, and that they may
derive the same benefit that I have done. You
are at liberty to make what use you think fit of
this testimonial.—l remain, yours gratefully,
(^.us
(HoiadacAxy
C'tfutAj
tX.
Personal Items.
Bottled Stout—Jabez Balfour.
N.S.W. ex-Gov. Jersey was 49 on 20th
March.
The son of a well-known squatter is earn-
ing a living out West by dispensing shower-baths
at a shilling each.
“ Jabez Balfour refused a baronetcy as a
solatium for non-inclusion in the Gladstone
Cabinet.”— lnvestors’ Review.
Sacred Ibis Meston is, it is said, to be
appointed inspector of aborigines in North Queens-
land. Virtue is thus rewarded.
The circumstantial story about Minister
Slattery having been appointed N.S.W. Agent-
General was one of A. G. Taylor’s deliberate
jokes.
Parkes, now visiting Perth (W. A.), has
been presented with a gold-mounted walking-
stick. But some people won’t take a gold-
mounted hint.
Evangelist Moody has heart-disease, and
his friends are sad. Why ? He is pre-eminently
fit for Heaven. But it is always the biggest saints
who are sorriest to quit.
The mystery of the Democratic ex-Attorney
General (S. A.) Homburg’s autocratic actions and
utterances is now solved. He and the Czar were
born on the same day—loth March.
An ex-Speaker is responsible for the state-
ment that there is in the Legislature of his pro-
vince one member “ who has committed every
orime under heaven bar one—suicide.”
McColl, the Victorian Minister, accuses
Isaacs, M.L. A., of hitting him “ behind his back
and below the belt.” An interesting anatomical
question arises just here—what part of McColl is
Isaacs hitting ?
Dr. Renwick—still plain Mister—is back
in Sydney from Chicago and London, with the
brand of the Colonial Office visible on his clothes,
and “next 24th of May ” shining like a benedic-
tion in his face.
The chief reason of Grey’s visit to England
—quite an undertaking for a man of his years—
is said to be his desire for a reconciliation with
his wife, from whom he has been estranged for
nearly 40 years, A pathetic errand, truly.
The 21st inst. (March) will be the 28th
anniversary of the pronouncing of the death-
sentence on murderer Bertrand at Sydney.
Bertrand is probably a record “lifer” in the
criminal history of English-speaking nations.
Cecil Rhodes (the man “ with the face of
a Csesar, the ambition of a Loyola, and the wealth
of a Croesus ”) has raised misogyny to a science.
Not only do he and his millions—fifteen or so—
resist the blandishments of every marriageable
woman in S. Africa, but all the members of his
personal and domestic staff are single. Anybody
in his service who gets married gets dismissed as
well. “ Marriage spoils a man or woman’s career
—destroys singleness of aim,” is his dictum.
Monsieur Alexis de Pon-
tiata, the new Russian Consul
in Melbourne, shrugs his shoul-
ders at the prevalent notion that
he is a diplomatist of the deepest
dye, having secret papers con-
cealed under the lining of his
hat. When a Bulletin am-
bassador first waited upon him
the consul was, in point of fact,
plotting the final details of a
lobster salad, or something, in
a dark corner of his outer office,
and a general impression of
glassware and cut flowers sug-
gested conspiracy d, la fourchette.
M. de Pontiatais a short, slight,
essentially Russian - looking
stranger. His large, oval Asiatic
eyes betray none of the fury of
his appalling ancestor, who
slaughtered the pagans of Nov-
gorod some nine centuries back.
The consul’s hair is thinning
rapidly on the top in a harmless
Australian manner, and a ten-
dency to bristle in his Russian
moustache is perhaps the only
suspicious circumstance about
him. A Greek and Latin scholar,
a considerable linguist and a
student of things in general, M.
de Pontiata’s first reason for
accepting his present appoint-
ment lay in his natural ambition
to produce eventually a standard
work on Australia for the benefit
of Russian readers. He has
already recommended the des-
patch of Russian samples to the
little Hobart Exhibition, and
has obtained a peck or two of
Eucalypti seeds from Baron Von
Mueller, being convinced that
the gum-tree will do well in the
Caucasian region. He is a
strong supporter of red-gum
blocks for street paving, and his
opinion of the Bulletin is ex-
pressed by a slight upraising of
the hands, followed by'a peculiar
smile.
The story goes that the N.S.W. Crown
Solicitorship was offered to and refused by Mr.
Makinson (understood to be Cardinal Moran’s
solicitor); also, that Sydney city solicitor Waldron
(son-in-law of Premier Dibbs) could have had it
had he chosen.
Rosebery’s elevation to the British
Premiership recalls an anecdote of his marriage
into the Rothschild family. Said the old Duke
of Hamilton, amidst a burst of congratulations :
“ I don’t know the lady’s family, but I believe
they are quite well-to-do.”
A certain Australian politician lately died
away from home. His relatives determined to
remove the body for interment, and approached
the Railway Commissioners with the request that
they should be allowed to “ travel the deceased on
his parliamentary railway-pass !” Solemn fact.
The much-paragraphed “Indian official,”
now visiting Australia,” is said to be secretary to
the “Govt, of Mysore.” The Rajah of Mysore,
Southern India, is a petty prince under the
tutelage of a British Govt. Resident, and has about
as much power as a South Sea Island nigger chief.
When Righteous Wrixon, of Victoria, lately
remarked at a Melb. temperance garden-party
that “ nobody realises more than Lady Wrixon
the evils of immoderate drinking,” he little thought
he was perpetrating a standard joke for all the
English-speaking people. It has even got into the
French papers.
Melbourne Theosophists propose import-
ingl a young blood named Claude Wright, from
New York, to make the spooks hum locally.
Wright is especially distinguished for having been
in at Madame Blavatsky’s death—in fact, he held
H.P.B.’s hand when she booked her passage to
the Devaehan.
The late Johnny Sheehan once appeared
at the Thames (M.L.) Warden’s Court in a min-
ing suit, the opposition counsel being “ Nat ”
Brassey and Campbell. Sheehan, in replying,
said : “Your Worship, having now disposed of
the ‘Nat’ without straining, I will proceed to
demolish the Campbell.”
It is related of a certain Sydney Johnny,
of more length than breadth and with most
influential legal connections, that a certain Cool-
gardie syndicate offered him a-fifth share in
exchange for a certain sum. “No,” firmly replied
the fashionable young man with the small head,
“ I decline to take less than one-sixth.”
That Wesleyan Conference resolution
censuring “trading ” clergymen was probably
directed at Fitchett, whose literary gifts the
Church pooh-poohed at first. His gossipy
“X.Y.Z.” was the feature of the Spectator, but
the directors let him slip, on a paltry question of
payment, and he was lost to the sect as Southern
Cross editor.
“ Marriage is a lottery.” There lately lived
in a Melbourne suburb a woman who, many years
ago, in Ballarat’s “golden days,” put herself up
to be raffled for—tickets <£s apiece. She was
handsome, and tickets sold readily. The raffle
duly came off, and the winner at once married his
prize. They lived happily together for many
years, and she was then left a widow.
The Empress Eugenie has practically
adopted the illegitimate son of the late Prince
Imperial by the daughter of a Surrey Park
ranger. The boy, who is often seen about arm-in
arm with the ex-Empress, is now about 14, and is
described as a lightly-built young fellow, tall and
well-shaped, and very like his father. His mother
lived in Melbourne some years after his birth.
The Moderator of Sydney Presbyterian
Assembly popped up last week in a regalia, com-
prising a braided coat “trimmed with the finest
lace,” knee-breeches of black cloth, black silk
stockings, and silver buckled shoes. The brethren
promptly voted a further honorarium of ,£3O to
the Moderator in consideration of his expensive
clothes, and the meeting asked Heaven’s blessing
upon the holy show.
A CONSIDERATE WARNING.
MISSIONARY (to cannibal chiefs son, who is tormenting him) :
“Leave me alone! What’ll your pa say when he
finds all the best joints bruised?”
, T . on « e ’ h 7 a blunder, Duncan Gillies, when
Yr G * *. re ™ ler > £°k an invitation to an important
Masonic function. All too guilelessly he roiled
and mingled with the self-chosen children of
Jehovah, boon a whispered conclave was held in
ante-room, and the little shiny man was
approached with a view to putting him “to the
test.” Duncan declined the ordeal and retired.
He wasn’t a brother !
fo A?. ™ r J. North noted
Hinry Parkes ” (loud cheers), and the veteran was
afterwards thus addressed by several speakers,
When responding to the toast of his own health,
his Worship said “he hoped to continue in the
past as he had done in the future,” The guests
here fell upon one another’s necks and wept tears
of joy; but when he added, “I have even ‘humped
bluey, ’ and am not ashamed to deny it,” there
wasn’t a dry eye in the house.
Dear Bulletin,— The theory that “fat is
force ”is weak in the knees. Christ disproves it,
also Mahomet. Take the world’s three greatest
statesmen—Alexander, Csesar, and Napoleon ; the
first died at 32, and before he had had time to
grow fat; the leanness of the second amounted
almost to a disease, and the star of the last-named
only commenced to wane as his adipose tissue
began to accumulate. Parnell and Gladstone, the
two greatest commoners of the century, were both
lean men. So were Robespierre, Desmoulins,
Washington, Lincoln, Windhorst, Cavour,
Disraeli, and John Russell; and so are Balfour,
Chamberlain, Davitt, John Dillon, and a host of
Mr. P. P. DAKIN.
others too numerous to mention. When Shake-
speare’s Csesar feared for his safety it was the
machinations of the lean men that he dreaded :
“Let me have men about me that are fat.” As a
general rule, you will find it is the “ lean, strong
man,” or often-as in the case of Robespierre and
Windhorst —the shrunken dwarf, that “shifts the
earth.”—D. W.
David -Gaunson, we see, though ranking
among lawyers as an attorney, wears wig and
gown in Court. It is sad, in view of Gaunson’s
present attitude, to muse on what he might have
been. Of old, he was a fiery Democrat, and a
heau-sabrcur in speech—the generous leader of
social forlorn hopes, the eloquent mouthpiece of
all who were trampled on, the incisive scorner of
the gilded vulgarians of politics and their allies in
the press. To day—alas ! he is chiefly known as
the hired professional advocate of busted boomers.
But the Democracy was most ungrateful to the
sensitive Gaunson.
A N.S.W. Judge, appealed to by a
certain newspaper for leave to publish the
evidence in a recent unsavory divorce-
suit, replied : “You should be ashamed of your-
self ; I was once a newspaper - man, but I
never helped blackguardism. Poor soul! go,
serve your time to a blacksmith, instead of hang-
ing around here to pick up dirty details of a dirty
case. Tell your editor from me that he is a social
disease. Against yourself, young man, I have
nothing; but surely you can pick pockets for a
living; well, that’s better—anything’s better than
what you’re at.”
Writes a Bulletin London correspondent:
When Ernest Giles, the explorer, came to England to
publish his book, “Australia Twice Traversed,” he
brought with him some fine specimens from, I think,
Dookie, and was followed by two tons of stuff from a
mine there, and a bag of rich specimens. Henniker
Heaton tried to get up a Carlton Club syndicate to exploit
the mine, but nothing resulted. The quartz was rich,
though showing no gold, for the result of the crushing at
Johnson and Matthey’s was over 30oz. to the ton, whilst
the picked specimens gave as high as 80oz. To the late
Charles Stewart Parnell, who was an expert assayer,
Heaton had given a small piece of the quartz Giles brought
in his portmanteau—it was grey-looking stuff, and gave
no indication of phenomenal richness—and this Parnell
tested. On the occasion of the fierce debate on the
Parnell commission, the great leader walked across the
floor of the House to Heaton, and pulling out of his waist-
coat pocket a piece of tissue-paper, handed it to him,
saying, “This is the gold I got from the piece of quartz
you gave me.” It was a small piece of gold, no bigger
than a pin s head, and with it was the result of his assay,
which agreed with Johnson’s bulk trial. And this in
the midst of a commotion which the House has rarely
witnessed. Such was Parnell’s sang froid.
Dear Bulletin, —The historical [lamented
H. Mortimer Franklyn, of Federal Australian
fame, was not a “blue-eyed Yankee.” He was a
grey-eyed Cockney. He certainly had some
singular experiences in the U..5.A., but he was
only a sojourner there as here, and there was
nothing of the “haw’ about him, although he
affected the “superior person,” the imperturbable
Vere de Vere sort of thing. All the same, he had
a devilish temper, which sometimes got loose.
The accountant was generally within reach and
got lots of the breeze when Morty was angry;
he was “ sacked ” on three separate occasions but
came back again the next morning in each case.
Franklyn made no comment on his reappearance,
that being one of his Vere de Vere peculiarities.
A cheap clerk came to him on one of these
occasions and offered to do the work for .£1 per
week /ess than the amount he was then paying.
Mortimer’s reply was to the effect that he thought
it would, in the long run, be cheaper to pay full
salary to the devil he knew. Perhaps the Melb.
man who tells the funny story about the “ Sul-
tan,” his “haw” style, &c., is the cheap man.
Franklyn has been bitterly condemned for his
financial exploits, yet he was a Bayard compared
to some of our truly pious boomers— en passant,
what a boomer was lost in him, thank heaven!
There is no man without his good points, and
Franklyn had plenty. He often did good turns,
and without fuss or afterthought. Temporarily
embarrassed or sick employes frequently got loans
or gifts from him. One noted sporting writer
was for months utterly prostrated by serious
illness, but he got his per week all the time.
As to his fortune, it is improbable he took much
wealth away from these shores; he was too
extravagant. Howbeit, an old Federal comp.,
returned from England, asserts that he saw in a
London paper that H. Mortimer Franklyn had
been left by his uncle a legacy of <£122,000. That
was Morty’s luck. Apropos, the present writer
was the dismissed accountant. —Yours truly, J.M.
Mr. Francis F. Dakin, the
present Y.R.C. handicapper, has
been identified with the horsey
history of Victoria from the day
of his landing, in 1871, when he
and his brother brought with them
The Marquis, a winner of the Two
Thousand Guineas and St. Leger
in England. As a trainer Mr.
Dakin made his first big mark in
1875 with Newminster, who pulled
off the Maribyrnong Plate, and at
this time he was in charge of
winners like Haricot and Sailor,
not to mention a horse bearing
the savoury name of Irish Stew.
With Darebin the subject of this
notice won the V.R.O. Derby in
1881, and the Adelaide Birthday
Cup a year later. On behalf of
Hon. William Pearson, of Long
Tunnel fame, Mr. Dakin pre-
pared good little Fryingpan (the
sire of Fortunatus) and the even
better Commotion for many of
their best victories. Another
notable horse in the Pearson
stable was Royal Oak, winner of
the G.N. Steeplechase in 1887, and
runner-up for the same event next
year. Mr. Dakin’s official connec-
tion with the V.R.C. began in
1889,_ when he took possession of
the judge’s box and gave those
solemn decisions from which there
is no appeal. Not long afterwards
he migrated to the position of
handicapper, vice Mr. Barnard,
and as handicapper he has pro-
bably come as near to perfection
as any keen student of “ form ” can ever
hope to get. Some of the handicap races
at last Cup meeting, for instance, were strik-
) n B> proofs of the care that had been taken
m bringing horses together. It is certain that
the recent charge of unfair weighting, brought
against Mr. Dakin by the “syndicate,” found
absolutely no support whatsoever from the public
who stand by and watch the game.
One of Victor Daley’s best stories relates
to a famous R. C. charity-sermon preacher who
was once brought along to the church where little
boy Victor served as an acolyte, and gambolled
innocently around the altar. The tabernacle re-
quired much repairs, and the famous “awakener”
was desired to give the congregation a “ regular
good rousing.” He did. Daley can’t speak of the
sermon even now without a shudder. The preacher
selected the “Worm that Never Dieth ” for his
texb He went right into the anatomy of the
horrid, crawling thing, dwelt upon its writhings
and twistings and eternal bitings at the innards of
those who wouldn’t give freely towards the new
r e°f-, Men groaned, boys turned pale, women
shrieked and tore their bonnets. Wben the audi-
ence was on the verge of a collapse from spiritual
funk, the preacher—he had been walking up and
down the altar district all the time—put his hand
before his mouth and whispered, **Go round with
the plate.” Thereupon Daley and the other col-
lector went round and took up an enormous sub-
scription, whilst the genius fired off his final par-
ticulars re the Worm. Presently the congregation
departed and the offertory was totted up. The
P. r T? c^er ’ mo PPing his wet brow, enquired casually,
How much ? ” They told him the amount —a
record achievement. “Ah ! ” said the holy father,
starting to dry his neck, “I have never known the
Worm to fail,”


g
INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPHY!
{:)
This Hand Camera,
With BALL and TUBE ATTACHMENT,
355.
Samples of Work done by this Instrument, and Illu-
strated Catalogues, post free on application.
BAKER & ROUSE,
375 George Street, Sydney (opposite Sydney Arcade).
260 Goldins Street, Melbourne (next to Mullen’s).
46 Queen Street .. .. Brisbane.
69 Bundle Street .Adelaide.
FLETCHER’S PILLS
never fail to cure
INDIGESTION,
COSTIYENESS,
SOUR BREATH,
HEARTBURN,
LIVER DISEASE and
KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
FLETCHER’S PILLS and CLEMENTS
TONIC are the recognised household remedies of
the Australian colonies, and every designing
quack tries to trade on their reputation and
renown. This is the greatest proof of thejr merit,
and sufferers want to be particular to get the
genuine articles, as regret and disappointment are
sure to follow the use of the thousands of “ All-
failing” remedies so freely advertised. The repu-
tation and wide-spread use of Clements Tonic and
Fletcher’s Pills are the greatest proofs of their
appreciation by the public. If they were not as
represented they would have passed out of
memory long ere this; but instead their sale is
greater and they are more esteemed day by day
and week by week, and this emphatically proves
their undisputed supremacy. Listen to no argu-
ment from interested parties ; demand the genuine
articles and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
LIKE THE MORNING STAR.
QYDNEY is getting uncomfortable. Its population
is pushing each other shoulder to shoulder like
sardines in a box. Those who pay rent are sighing for
Fresh Fields and Pastures New, and they have found it at
CARLTON-
-8 MILES from SYDNEY. TRAIN AGE, 6d. DAILY.
LARGE BLOCKS THIRTY POUNDS BACH
On the Wonderful Terms of 14/- per Month.
City water. Gas. Asphalt paths to Station. Magnificent
Public School opposite. Suspension granted in case of
illness or lack of employment. Liberal discount tor
Cash. Local people who gave pounds per foot in the
Boom times will tell you it is a gift. Grand corners for
business. Roads being formed. In advertising this
Estate the Public only get real, solid truths.
Plans from E. €. V. Bronghton, 301 Pitt-st., Sydney,
9 to 5 daily, and open Monday nights till 9 p.m. On
ground every Saturday afternoon 3 to 4.30 p.m.
POLITICAL POINTS
The N.S. W. Parliamentary oath ; Good
Grog Almighty !
The solid Teuton vote dominates more
than one S.A. constituency.
The “ Country ” (Conservative) party in
the S.A. Assembly is preparing to assail free edu-
cation
Parkes, after living for 25 years on his son,
the Kiama ghost, calmly says he is going “to devote
the rest of his life to the union of the Australias.”
Every Australian politician who con-
spicuously loves power, seems to think himself
specially capable of personally managing the
military forces.
Rumoured that Graham Berry is to be
voted .£lO,OOO for “services” to a grateful country.
Meaning thereby for squelching Victorian
Liberalism by coalescing with Service ?
M‘llwraith tells Pall Mall Gazette he
would support the prohibition of Japanese labour
on the Q. sugar fields. The colour line again.
Mae. is an extremist. Black but no tan.
“ Interest eats day and night, and the more
it eats the hungrier it grows. The farmer in debt,
lying awake at night, can hear it gnaw his heart.
If he owes nothing he can hear the corn growing.”
—lngersoll.
Rev. W. G. Marsh, Anglican, after in-
specting the Vic. Village Settlements, publicly
denounces them as a mere shuffling with the
question of poverty 7. The people starve there
instead of in town, that is all, he says.
Patterson cables congratulations to Rose-
bery on his attaining the British Premiership.
An anonymous South Australian congratulated
Patterson when he became Premier. This wire
read : “ Congratulate you. Sympathise with the
country.”
Be Hoolan’s resignation
of his seat for Georgetown (Q.).
At <£3 a week there is nothing
in Parliament for a man whose
interests are all Northern, and
whose labour-principles leave no
show for loaves and fishes.
Lilley or Glassey is suggested
for the vacancy. It must be a
certainty before Lilley will
stand, for the old man’s pride
got a bad knock at North Bris-
bane, and he swears he’ll never
risk another
Some more of the bless-
ings of private enterprise and
the influx of British capital are
coming home to the people of
Westralia. That infatuated
province granted to the W.A.
Land Co. the right to select vast
areas of land at a few pence per
acre, and the bloated corpora-
tion proceeds to exercise its
right by taking up allotments
in new Government townships,
so that the State has the
pleasure of seeing town-lands,
which might have brought in
scores of pounds per acre, going
to the British capitalist for less
than as many coppers. The
matter was referred to the Privy
Council, and that body has
decided in favour of the co.,
“ with costs.” Probably all the
money which the Treasury will
ever get for its town-lands from
the W.A. Land Co. will fail to
pay those “costs,”
Suaviter in modo has super-
seded for titer in re as, a black-,
birding motto. The Kanaka-
catcher up- to. date has just
returned to Brisbane with his
phonograph and his magic-,
lantern, which helped to lure 88
recruits with carefully-selected
sounds and sights from Queens-
land sugar-plantations. . There
was no “ your ,
you —■ son of a con-
sumptive waster, get on with
that thrashing!” in the
phonograph. The charmed
islanders heard only “Please,
oblige me by proceeding with
the thrashing, Samuel,” and
similar courtesies.,. And the
hmelight always showed a. fat
Kanaka stuffing down roast-
pig; never, by any chance, a
thin wretch being kicked into
adding his tally to the biggest
death-rate in Australia. No,
sir.
Six hundred thousand women now in
excess in Great Britain. Something is coming—
perhaps polygamy.
Colonial Secretary Tozer (Q.), when in
Sydney lately, expressed the conviction that the
only way to deal with the unemployed was to
send them either on to State farms, at a low
weekly wage, or to hard labour in gaol, with a
wage attached.
One hundred and sixty temporary hands
had to leave the N.S.W. Electoral office in the
past fortnight. It is said that not one of the many
nominees of a certain North Shore politician, who
lately did the Ministry a valuable service,” was
among those dispensed with.
George Ash, M.P. (S.A.), chews the cud
reflectively whenever a fresh Village Settlement
is formed on the Murray. Ash was a strong
opponent from the first, and as the Murray is in
his district, the ex-jonrnalist may have to reckon
with 1000 angry electors at next S.A. elections.
The Tasmanian want-of-confidence fight,
which endedjn a two-vote Govt, majority, was a
mere party contest. Mr. Braddon, Imperialist,
Carlton Club man, knight, taking charge of the
so-called Democratic party in the House-of-
Assembly is surely a subject for savage derision.
Dear Bulletin, —When is pig-headed J.
Bull going to see the wolf at his door ? I came
across in my lodgings the other day a volume of
cheap photographic views of J. B,’s capital. The
work was entitled “The New Album of London,”
and bore the legend: “Made in Germany!”—
Paul Gibbs.
Rosebery has given substantial hostages to
the Radicals, if cablegrams are correct. Local
Option, One-man-one-vote, Scotch and Welsh
Disestablishment, Scottish Local Government,
Strike Conciliation Boards —how many score of
years before Gladstone would have got so far,
even in promises ?
The retiring Commissioners of the Vie.
Railways—they who came after Speight—have
issued a valedictory report which they could not
close “ without expressing thanks to members of
Parliament who have refrained from unduly
pressing the wants of their constituents.” What
a tribute to political virtue !
“Nationality is, in view of the uprising
host of the native-born population of Australasia,
inevitable and desirable. It will be the primary
fact and duty. It will be the irresistible outcome
of natural patriotism. To fight against it will be
to fight against Nature; and all such fights are
foredoomed to defeat.”— Brisbane Courier!
John Bright once called the Indian Civil
Service a “ huge system of out-door relief for the
aristocracy.” The Australian Civil Service is a
huge system of out-door relief for the privileged
classes. The Indian Civil Service was reformed
in the only way that of Australia can be—by the
open-competitive system of filling vacancies. Such
a system would help to kill Party Government.
Those monarchical Australian newspapers
that whooped so joyously about the insurrection
raised in Brazil by Di Mello, in favour of a
fallen imperial dynasty, are discreetly silent
anent the anti-republican sentiment with which
they alleged the Brazilians were saturated.
Except the Sydney Evening News which, as
usual, turns a spry somersault and cheers the dog
that has come out on top.
Matabeleland is finally absorbed in the
British lion’s greedy maw. It is to be governed
by the Chartered South Africa Co., while the
“ rights ” of the natives are relegated to a land-
commission nominated by Govt, and Co. The
natives had better have fallen before the Maxims
than endure such mercies. And now that the
country is “pacified,” “subscriptions are invited
in order to extend the blessed gospel to Matabele-
land.”
S.M. Herald, charging judicially against
Labour members who agree to enter Parliament
Tj^yAVy^y
FAMILY EXPERIENCE.
PARSON (to bush boy): “Well, Mike, my little boy, do you see
these things over there? (pointing to some tele-
graph-lines.)
MIKE : “Yes.”
P.: “ Now, what are they used for ? ”
M.: “ What are they used for? Why, just you shake a moke
and you’ll blessed soon see what the blanky blank
things are used for. My word ! ”
solemnly pledged to uphold certain principles in
the face of all opposition, declines to admit that
they are worthy the name of freemen, and, gather-
ing wrath as it proceeds, dubs all such covenanters
as “bondsmen.” An egregiously grotesque atti-
tude for a newspaper which supports, day and
night, established society—oath-bound from its
Governor to its policeman, and oath-bound in
every section of its church-system.
The Brazilian insurrection has flickered
out, and the republic will last a while longer.
The said insurrection was never much more
than a marine affair, for every time it got
a footing on land the gritty President Peixoto
headed it off, and' it had to take to the
ocean once more. There it led an unsatisfac-
tory existence on salt-junk for many days, but
all the while Peixoto was building, buying, and
arming ships in different parts of the world, and
at last he was able to corner the insurgents on
their own element. There was no fight then ; the
great insurrection simply doubled up.
Grey, who is an ardent Horae Ruler, will,
on his arrival in England, propound a scheme for
the settlement of the Irish question. And The
Bulletin will take a shade of odds—improbable
as it may now seem in view of the veteran’s age—
that before many months are over his voice will be
heard in the Imperial Parliament. Grey unsuc-
cessfully contested a British seat nearly 30 years
ago, and Carlyle, who never flattered anybody,
sent him a note the day before the election, as
follows “Let me know the result as soon as it
is over. It is the only contest I take any interest
in.” This, written in pencil, is in the Grey collec-
tion at the Auckland Free Public Library.
The irruption of English militaryism into
Australia resembles nothing so much as the whole-
sale emigration of Normans to England after the
Conquest, when
Robert of Coningby
Came out of Normandy
With his wife Tiffany,
And his maid Maupas,
And his dog Hardigras,
and his cat, and his cattle, and his household
deities and utilities, and everything else that was
Robert’s. Just so does Major-General Hutton
descend upon N.S.W. with a wife, three servants,
and baggage, and a bill of ,£316 2s. sd. In these
days of cheap fares the amount is undoubtedly
extravagant. But what does Parliament want?
It wants the imported militaire, and then grumbles
because he’s costly. Parliament must pay for its
whistle.
If The Bulletin were J. B. Patterson,
which it isn’t, and doesn’t want to be, it
would obstinately refuse, however frenzied
the public clamour, to call Parliament to-
gether before June. If we were Patterson we’d
reckon on being made a K.C.M.G. on Victoria’s
birthday next May, as an acknowledgment
of our “loyalty” in inviting the Yorks to Aus-
tralia. Further, we’d calculate on being sacked
instantly we met Parliament. If we were sacked
before the bauble came along and thus became
naught but a common member of the Opposition,
the bauble wouldn’t come at all, because, apart from
Patterson’s Premiership, which, under the afore-
said circumstances would be our Premiership,
there would be no excuse which could bear public
inspection for making us a K.C.M.G. Therefore,
though the heavens might fall in the interim, we
would clutch the degradation before we meet
Parliament, After that, the Deluge might follow
if it liked.
A fine sample of “ faked ” evidence. Be-
fore the Vic. Tariff Commission one firm stated,
as reported in the Sydney Telegraph’s news
columns, that they—
Had at one time employed 25.0 hands, but on account of
the high tariff and bad times they now employed only 16
men.
Then, in the “ brevities,” on front page of same
issue, the same story appeared in an improved
form:—
Evidence was given before the Tariff Board in Melbourne
yesterday, that owing to the high import duties the staff
of a carriage-builder had been reduced in a few years from
250 to 16 hands.
Here the “ bad times ” are entirely left out, and it
is all put down to the bless*ed tariff. Also, nothing
is said about four other carriage-makers who gave
evidence on the same day. One said that he
employed 115 hands; his business hadn’t fallen
off; and he was satisfied with the tariff. The
next two were also satisfied, and the remaining
one said that since the duties first began the price
of vehicles had gone down more than half. But
the good old Foreign-trade sup-press wasn’t lis-
tening just then, and all this evidence was left
out.
Mr. Henry Martin writes to the Tas. Demo-
crat to ask why The Bulletin doesn’t “ step for-
ward and advocate straight out the abolition of the
law which allows the recovery of interest by the
individual capitalist, and the substitution of a
law which shall make interest payable to the
State Bank,” which proceeding, he says, if
“ the interest so received by the State were
applied to pay the expenses of Government, would
be the means of really restoring confidence in
business undertakings; especially if the railways
arid other public departments were worked free of
charge to the public?” Well, one reason is that
The Bulletin doesn’t particularly want to
“restore confidence in business undertakings.”
Another is that such a device would burst
up every insurance and friendly society in the
land, and send many thousands of old men and
ancient widows and the like to the benevolent
asylum. A third reason is that there would
probably be a revolution, in the course of which
Mr. Henry Martin and The Bulletin would be
hanged on a lamp-post; and a fourth is that this
paper doesn’t want to see the railways worked
“free of charge” so that every Fat Man can
travel gratis, and have his wool and stores carried
free, and charge the expense to the taxpayer.
Also, there are several other reasons.
Hope for the future. The burning ques-
tion of to-day is Federation ! So all our great
men say. Admitted that its benefits would be
unsurpassed, why stand still like Balaam’s ass?
Take hope ! for there is comfort —yea —even to-
morrow—in a cup of “ Fry’s malted cocoa.”
Its strength, its pureness, its fame, its renown,
In the march of civilization is always to be found.
Shareholders in the Woggouora Building
Society will be cheered by the news that over six
inches of rain have fallen on their grazing farms
near Cunnamulla, Queensland, since 27th Feb., fill-
ing all the tanks, dams, and waterholes and ensuring
a good season. This society offers exceptional ad-
vantages to its members, as may be seen by its
detailed prospectus in these columns, and anyone
having £1 to invest would do well to consider this
opportunity of gaining a competency.*
“ All is lost, save honor.” — Fitchett on
Matthew Davies.
Photographic apparatus is being supplied
at Pentridge prison, which will take five different
portraits of the same prisoner at one time.
In a Tasmanian gaol lately a warder whose
duty it was to “clear” a time-expired prisoner,
took, instead of the right man, one who had 12
months to “ do,” and restoring to him his clothes,
&c., released him. When the mistake was dis-
covered, the police got on the track of the released
man and re-instated him.
THOMAS
WHOLESALE
DODD
T[?]
“TOMMY DODD,” the N.S.W. political agitator.
Prize-fights having been abolished, and
dog-fighting being illegal, also the Zoo officials
having decided not to let the Bengal tiger see the
other tiger, Sydney last week crammed the jury-
court to the doors to hear the malicious-prosecu-
tion action, John Norton, journalist, versus William
Patrick Crick, lawyer and M.P. John has a fine
command of all sorts of language, is a born con-
troversialist and fighter, and is pretty square in
the jaw. Add to this that he is a ready-witted
man of wide information and much platform ex-
perience, and a lovely hater; that he has a raucous
voice, a east-iron front, and carries enough fat to
give him staying power, and you have Mr. John
Norton, ex-editor of Truth, concerning the
business accounts of which all the trouble
arose. To give any particulars regarding
the quick-brained and aggressive, not to say
quarrelsome, Crick would' be to get pinched
for stale news. Norton conducted his own case
and was able to take all the (advantages of his
position, for before a jury it is, in a manner of
speaking, only the lay fool who is not his own
lawyer; he smiled derisively when defendant’s
counsel diplomatically asked the Court to
be as kind as it could be to the poor man
who was his own counsel. The end of the
row was a verdict for plaintiff for ,£750.
That night the Sydney public went to bed after
kneeling down and devoutly thanking heaven for
having preserved Crick and Norton as separate
entities instead of combining them into one politi-
cian and putting him into the Legislature. There
is always some small outside show for such people
as yearn to be in evidence while John and Patsy
remain at variance.
For a second time, James Martin and Co.,
the well-known Sydney agricultural engineers,
have secured the National prizes for implements
and machinery, and also for fruit-evaporators,
given by the New South Wales Government at
the Lismore show. They were also awarded the
Blue Ribbon for pumping appliances, corn
planters, corn-stalk cutters, harrows and cultiva-
tors, so it may be said that they have carried
everything before them.


the release of PRISONERS. 4
The ease <d and Others, sen.
tenced to various terras of imprisonment m.
connection with their 'conduct in regfttd to
certain financial institutions, has been before.,
the Cabinet. The Cabinet have arrived a*
the conclusion that the time has npj yet-
arrived for the consideration of the question
’of the remission of the sentences. The
1 various petitioners have been informed of
ithe decision of the Government in the
matter., probable that the question of
! a commutation of the sentences will be dealt
[.•with - by the Government at a later date.
If h?tff Lzj/iry > {arcL,
if utyforfuj-
afc_
a£ztour~i /y
JJ/n<3 tdfu-tttfc
jhrfrWp
P*
g
MR. WRAGGE’S WEATHER
EQREOAST.
Brisbane, Friday.—The following weather:'
(forecast for New South Wales was issued?'
‘to-day by Mr. Wragge “ Generally fine,'
jbut before Monday afternoon conditions will
‘develop for a refeewdl of south-easterly'
wehther, With rain along the coast, especially
(south from Manning Rivet. Patches of
‘rough sea south from Newcastle. A^baro-'
metric disturbance exists off the south, end
of New Zealand. Shipping in thatmeighbor-
hood will meet fierce squalls, hfchVJTiiaihtfandl
high seas.” . ,
W it
fine bluest cloth coat of clerical out, trimmed
with frogar of fkfe braid and rallies of cream
lace on the breast and
of black cloth, silk stockings, and shoes*witb
silver buckles,”
/Mera/or-/fa/ft fu//>
§/% it- AVi/fa *s*l'
£*"/ a a/r a f / 9y
y#u 100/j Afa 0 //■ W-f, at?*//fa <*#'s „
os-fa/v'/B/Zf/fc/?//? #/-<z?y ■ "
\ $
\ -I
v f
Cold fo be b
o *P
s/* eec *)t 3
A6* If fife allecpry
dote *)oh
Icifmt //>j
piulhof
x 1?
-5 7~/ C £ JTS {
A letter was handed uji to ]tiis Honor Which,
had been written by the petitioner (the
wife) in thel suit of Osliden v. Osliden. As
,‘he perused it his Honor’s countenance re-
laxed, iptq ft very genial, smile, which when
the conclusion of the epistle was reached
culminated into a hearty laugh. The joke
*was too good to be kept secret, and the
Judge read the closing lines aloud, :— f‘ Your
loving, wife until drwroe us do part/’
g
/Ca o’' 0 ’'
/?'
?
¥
.The report was in regard to tne pro-
ceedings oh military matters since Major-
General Hutton took compiand. It was a
report which was intended as a slap ill the-
.face for him (Sir George Lhbbs), and it was,'
;in circulation among members of the House
.and elsewhere before he received it. As tiie
!head of the department he resented conduct
'of that sort, and he gent the report back to
.he Major-General.
Newcastle, Monday.—Alderman W. %.
Gibb submitted a motion at the meeting ol
the borough council this evening to the
effect that the council unite with all munici-
palities throughout the colony in urging
upon the Government the advisability of
tendering a public invitation to Mr. Glad-
stone to visit New South Wales* in recogni-
tion of his great and lengthy services as V
statesman of the British Empire. ‘ ,
»* ’&&&&* ***(l
A GENERAL LOOK-ROUND.


Co to rrei-You L-ll fj wou id r»th«.
ba robbed a great deal tnaa aboot a man,"
jf yiw hear » ~ l ' ml
o^®rfunily
7 *3 otto ft on
hlrro -
’ ,/ l %
R
7RP U' 1
L Hul’-'
f?.C 0 U P- T /v • -
notco • >
LA MASCOTTB. \
LA MASOOTTK. \ \ \
£VERY EVBMiM'.
r-t a < • '•
i ii' 1 ''
w ■
-Of
■h
r*
// V*
Vf
3j>tea.c{ fucks
o.nd ur/ien ke conies Ur/kk.
fto/se/ess fPeacC fe usi/lca-ousef^d.
%
\
VICTOR 'M
EGC3 ’
i ip
/
rtf* Jt
.//vy
i i fr' >y
V'V »
r a*
>r; ■ r /«/ ih
IB
'
y&K-i
C$i~MC£
Of- CcCtck Tzl^At^-h/rd
~/A/S 04r-O(js~,
if/v/y-n /or/Ae unw-4-tjr
tiurfSccf' is'yioT' « icud idea.
HARMLESS SUGGESTIONS FOR THE TREATMENT OE BURG LARS.-BY THE MELBOURNE CORONER.


WEST AUSTRALIA.
U'ORTUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those who bought
Laud in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
years back, and fortunes are waiting for those who buy
now in PERTH (the capital city)and ALBANY, WEST
AUSTRALIA.
GRAND VIEW ESTATE, PERTH.
Splendid Building Sites.
£lO Each. £1 Deposit; 10 - Monthly. No Interest.
PERTH CITY LOTS,
From Sift each. Very Cheap. Easy Terms.
ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Grand position. From £l5 each. Easy Terms.
Title guaranteed perfect.. No forfeiture if ill or out of
work. Send for plans and Government map, showing true
position of land.
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
Limited,
(Established Perth and Sydney, 1885),
509 Pitt-st, SYDNEY. W. J. Douglas, Manager.
K£
Wonderful Discovery!
R O S E’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION .
rn II IS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Slight,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strength ens the sight. By post, 3s. per Bottle.
IEST" Manufactured Solely by 11. A. KOSE, Chemist.
531 GEORGE aXREET, SYDNEY.
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
'[if If W fei
09
ua
CtD
CD
/^frov
.
£ookfiends •
/Agenfs- drink only
WOLFESSCHNAPPS
Sociery
At Port Melbourne a man of 60 shoots
0r a Paltry grab at his eggs,
which killing is newspaper-trumpeted as a glorious
deed. We don’t envy him who more or less
wantonly slays a mere thief. If you are justified
in ki"i„g »for stealing pl.-Jor your
chickens, so is the Law.
* * *
While the Victorian Cabinet keeps up its
sanguine tone, it is plain that Melbourne poverty
is worse than ever. Here is one sign, which did
not appear even on the verge of last winter. In
the “ best ” suburbs, placards appear in the shop
windows, signed by locally-organised committees,
substantial men, not Premier Patterson’s bug-
bears, the “agitators.” One bill appeals to people
“ with any human feeling ” to contribute weekly
as much as they can spare, for the starving. Nor
are the recipients—the mediums—agitators, but
half-a-dozen of the most solid local traders.
* * »
A wife s letter to her husband, read in
N.S.W. Djvorce-court last week, concluded:
“Your loving wife, until divorce do us part.”
Judge Windeyer’s taste in jokes is distinctly grim,
and the thing made him smile.
. ’ ’ *. , ’
Another sample of Australian feminine divorce-
literature. Wife suing for divorce. Husband,
through solicitor, pleads for forgiveness: “Your
helping Mr. J to manage Yowlahbudgeree
station.” Wife, in rcoly :“ I shall not stay pro-
cee lings. I would not'again live with my husband
were he helping the Almighty to manage Heaven.”
* ®
\ t ! i <. m .
Anent the recent elopement of a Tasmanian
girl with an elderly, widely-known, married
Lothario, Hobart is not so much shocked at the
mere act of elopement as at the point-blank refusal
of the lady to leave the object of her infatuation
and return to the paternal roof-tree. However,
sh s probably thinks she may as well be hanged for
a sheep as for a lamb, and in the circumstances
she is. from a merely “society” point of view,
perfectly right. ’
« » *
w q w i -i
. ■"f-jY* R ad 'vay-Comunssioner Eddy says
he can reduce the Sydney tram-fares-by lowering
the employes wages.
Many of the Australian
Supreme-Court Judges have
been so badly bitten by the
l oom and bank reconstruc-
tions that they are compelled
to heavily retrench, and in at
least one case, it is said, to
reconstruct. The Bulletin
lias long held a theory which
fh )uld apply to judges of all
kinds, including even P.M.’s.
No judge should be ap-
pointed whose actuarial ex-
pectancy of life is not equiva-
le.it to the tennhehas to serve
t >earn his pension. His life
s muld be insured for him by
Govt, out of his pay, aud the
poicy should be inviolable.
A Judge’s P.N. should be so
much waste-paper. He
should not be permitted to
hold any land except that on
which his home stands. He
should not belong to any
secret society, and should
hold no shares in any co.,
an! should be allowed no
investment except Govt,
b mds. Safety and placi-
dity should be imposed upon
him by Act of Parliament.
And if, when all this is
enforced, the judges ask for
more salary, let them have
it. Better this than to see a
ju Ige dispensing alleged jus-
tice with the fag-end of a
brain that has been worried
o’ nights over land-jobbing
concerns.
* # *
The Melb. Art Gallery
experts allege that they paid
<£lsoofor a “replica ” paint-
ing of Brozik’s “Defenestra-
tion of Prague,” believing it
to be the original. Which fets
The Bulletin thinking of a
whole lot of things—amongst
others, of theN.S.W. “Roll-
Call ” incident.
After the sickening mutual grease business
at Melb. Wesleyan Conference comes the follow-
ing from an Adelaide Church meeting. Dr. Torr,
the speaker quoted, is the head of Way College,
and was a State school-teacher till the Bible
Christians took him up and sent him to Oxford
at “ connexional ” expense, with a view to his
assuming his present position :
A friend of his said to him one day, “ Torr, how can you
work for a church which has so few men of talent among
her preachers? ” “ Talent,” he replied ;“ we have plenty
of talent. Have we not the warm sympathetic grip of a
Thorne, the crisp criticism of a Lake, the dissecting skill
of a Collins, the metaphysics of a Hancock, the research
of a Charles Martin, the evangelistic devotion of a
Schafer, the mathematical accuracy of a Richards, the
simplicity of a Dingle, the pastoral care of a Cann, the
unwearied pen of a James, the quiet unohlrusiveness of a
Lang, the sanctified common-sense of a Ready, the clear-
headedness of a Qratton, and the holy enthusiasm of a
Tressie?” (Loud cheers.) What more could he say ?
What more could he say—in the way of superla-
tive priggishness?
• • *
Sydney Evening News advfcs. First the
poetry :
A LADY in distress wishes to meet an elderly
gentleman that would assist her. A. 8., Redfern
P.O.
TS/TLL Kind Gentleman lend 30s. to Young English
’’ Lady in distress. L.H., G.P.O.
TyANTED, Gentleman lend Lady £25, guarantee to
’ ’ pay 10s. weekly. S.M., Granville Post Office.
Then the prose :
]bTRS._ ’s Baby Friend for all baby troubles,
wind, convulsions, vomiting, purging, fits,
teething. Posted, Is. 6d.
No non sequitur about that column.
# # «
What it has come to :
I 1 ROGERS, Butchers, Bakers, and Bootmakers.—
First-class Surgeon-Dentist will make Teeth in
exchange for goods by the above. Fit and workman-
ship guaranteed. Surgeon, G.P.O.
—S.M. Herald.
* * *
Candid Age matrimonial advt. :
■piiDERLY Gentleman wishes meet Lady or Widow,
LJ with means, view matrimony, comfort. Answer
at once, Pore, Age Office.
When first we join Life’s Carnival,
With Folly for a guide,
Beauty and Love and Luck are all
We want —the rest may slide.
But when we’re growing old and weak,
And groggy-legged and grey,
We’re thankful for a roof, and eke
Three certain meals a day.
# # »
“ Why don’t the unemployed go up the
country ?” One of them lately did so. He was a
first-class axeman and generally useful labourer,
and was anxious for work. He got a day’s em-
ployment from a parson at Y . The service
commenced at 9 a.m and concluded at 3 p.m.
During that time the son of toil cut up and
stacked three-quarters of a cord of wood and
thoroughly cleaned a set of buggy harness. When
benediction-time arrived the parson forked out
one shilling, and suggested that his drudge should
sweep the yard up a bit.
* * *
A busted boomster, some liar alleges 5
provides a fair amount of fun for those of his
unfortunate bank-depositors who belong to a cer-
tain suburban bowling-club. Way back in boom-
time, he gave a slice of landed estate to his club,
with the reservation that the title would be for-
feited if intoxicating drinks were ever sold on the
ground. For some while past the battered
Rechabite has taken a strange interest in bowls.
g
HEARD ON THE STREET.-A FACT.
FRIEND : “ Do you always have the nurse with you when you go
walking ? ”
STOUT WOMAN: “ Yes, indeed, I’m much too weak to be carrying
that great, heavy child about.”
He haunts his former property with the alleged
hope of bowling the management out in a
breakage of the liquor clause, and his ancient eye,
according to the scoffers, dwells lovingly upon
the 200 feet of green which would make such a
desirable site for villa residences. The cruel joke
of the situation lies in the behaviour of the poor
man’s former admirers. They gather round him
an d, producing flasks full of whisky-and-water
from their pockets, drink to the health of the
b . ai ? k - They pretend to hold spirituous orgies
right under his nose—and still the clause is being
duly carried out. In point of fact, the now-
beggared donor is the only fiery thing “ sold ” on
the bowling-green.
* * *
l( • ~ v .
. Gent^ one is the preliminary step to
becoming a gentleman once.
Much too big for their boots are those
N.S.W. Public-school potentates who haughtily
send home a shoeless child. When the State’s
educational intentions are thusmagnificently over-
ridden by the noble creatures whom abase material
necessity compels to render it scholastic service, it
is high time the public took a hand in the game.
* * *
The old question is being re-discussed—
AN UP-TO-DATE AMENDMENT.
DOT: “Give us this day our daily bread ”
MOTHER : “Go on, ‘ and for ’- ”
DOT: “And some more for the swagmen.”
“Are boots clothing?” Years ago the problem
was attacked in Queensland and Victoria, and
always answered in a way that permitted the
barefooted boy to attend school. An Under-
secretary once thus minuted a paper to his chief:
“If we demand boots, why not gloves?”
* * *
Another priest-story. First Friday in
Lent. Scene, dinner-table at Goulburn (N.S.W.)
hotel. Father O’Mulligan enters and quietly
takes seat opposite a well-known sportsman.
Sport, bent on a joke : “ Have a little chicken,
your reverence?” “Thank you, no, I have just
ordered a couple of eggs.” “Eggs be blowed; be
like me —a philosopher," pressing wing of fowl on
to the plate of his vis-a-vis. His reverence hands
wing to Newfoundland dog. Joker rises indig-
nantly ; “Sir, how dare you insult me!” “No
insult offered, sir,” replied the O’Mulligan, “I
merely wished to see whether my dog is a philoso-
pher or a Catholic, and I find he is a philosopher.’*
* » »
You can now get advice, with bottle and
medicine thrown in, from a duly qualified medical
man in Sydney (no quack) for two shillings. And
it pays, to the tune of about .£ISOO a year clear.
The average cost of bottle and medicine is
under 2d.
* * #
An interprovincial wire, headed “ Alleged
Unprofessional Conduct,” gives particulars of a
complaint against a solicitor that he had failed to
pay to a client a large sum collected on his client’s
behalf. “ Alleged unprofessional conduct !”
Alleged fiddlesticks ! Alleged larceny as a bailee !
* * •
N.S.W. Justice Windeyer is now following
his chief, Darley, in ordering that evidence in a
peculiarly nasty divorce-case be not published.
But why don’t they clear the court? When any
particularly “spicy” case is being tried the body
of the court is packed with briefless barristers
and solicitors and their boy-clerks, while the
gallery is filled with other unemployed. And the
stench! No wonder Darley, C. J., gets the corners
of his mouth well down and piles the adjectives on
the detective witnesses. If his looks do not belie
him, he would like to give everyone in court five
years.
* • *
The testimonial nuisance is outdone by
the banquet to the more or less distinguished
citizen going abroad. Full-length reports of the
affair get somehow into the paper's, and the
banqueted one is thus enabled to work the com-
mercial oracle in strange lands as a man of light
and leading.
Murdoch’s visit to Australia has particular
reference to the will of the late J. B. Watson,
under the terms of which Mrs. Murdoch’s children
are entitled to =£looo a year—the sum apportioned
to each family of Watsonian grandchildren, sub-
ject to the trustees’ control—for their collective
benefit now and hereafter. Seeing that there is
already a considerable accumulation of funds in
excess of the allowances made, on a sliding scale,
for the education of each family, the respective
pairs of parents are applying to the trustees “ to
expend the whole or a part of said accumulations
in either purchasing, or renting, likewise furnish-
ing, houses for each lot of children. The husband
of a rich man’s daughter has family cares of a
comfortable nature. How sweet to be able to stick-
up two bald-headed gentlemen in a lawyer’s office
and say, “Tommy, Billy, Maudy, &c., require a
new drawing-room suite. Kindly write a little
cheque out of their accumulations and oblige !”
* • m
Melbourne, once “the metropolis,” is
now the necropolis of Australia.
A N.S.W. medico lately proposed an
arrangement with his creditors. One of them—a
man of wealth, but socially unknown, proved
recalcitrant and threatened trouble. But a British
heart beat in his manly bosom, and he consented
at last to forego his claims in consideration of the
medico’s sassiety wife calling upon Mrs. Noovo
Reashe.
There are tragedies
that never get reported
in the press. Some
months ago a poor Melb.
woman, answering a loud
knock at her front door,
saw a strange man loung-
ing against the portal.
“Is your name Mrs.
Blank?” growled the
visitor. She answered to
that name. “Well, your
’usband was killed this
morning, over at So-and-
So’s,” said the news-
breaker, after pausing to
spit. Whereupon Mrs.
Blank, looking strange-
like, tottered into her
little back-room and
expired without further
comment, the double
funeral taking place next
day. It doesn’t take
much to upset some
women.
* # #
Until Ash, M.P.,
interested himself in the
matter, 50 or 60 children,
inmates of Adelaide
Lunatic Asylum, wereleft
day after day to sit and
stare at a blank wall,
without books, toys, or
teaching, although the
majority are as sane as
any ordinary child, save
when suffering from peri-
odical epileptic fits. ”
« * #
The Argus (which
has interviewed every-
body from “Teddy”
Lonnen to bookmaker
Joseph): “We have
‘ the interviewer,’ that
gross product of a deca-
dent century.”
* # #
Since a Surry Hills
(Sydney) pastor refused
to allow dogs to sleep in
his church during service,
three prominent pew-
holders have declined to patronise his establish-
ment.
* • «
“Family people,” writes a Bulletin
correspondent, “are being starved out of the
Salvationist officerhood, not without complaisance
of the authorities, who see it must be a monkery
and nunnery business.”
* * •
Dear Bulletin, —Last week a consignment
of beautifully fresh sea gar-fish was sold in Sydney
markets at prices ranging from 9d. to lod. per
basket. I happened to see the last week’s returns
of some Lake Macquarie fishermen. One man—
the most careful on the Lake—sent 16 baskets, for
which he received 15s. 6d. Three baskets sent by
another man realised Is. 6d. A third sent 10
baskets of mixed fish and exactly cleared expenses.
Yet, in Sydney, fish is so scarce and dear that the
cry is raised : “The fishing grounds are depleted,”
and Premier Dibbs actually suggests that the
harbours be closed for three years! If Parnell,
Edden, and other fishy champions would abolish
the middleman, or start a co-operative distributing
agency, they would do good ; the interminable
maunderings on side-issues turn the fishermen’s
stomachs sick. —Yours, Ponte.
* * *
Lady Duff peremptorily silenced a courtier
who tried again on a late occasion to induce her to
speak her speech in reply, as Lady Jersey used to
do.
• • «
It would amuse the public to know the
exact genesis of that First Offenders Bill, intro-
duced into N.S. W. Legislative Council last week.
* # #
N.S. Wales exported 2,880,0001b5. of
butter last year, the return from which was
■£114,000, or exactly per lb. As it was all of
prime quality, the whole of it would have been
consumed in Australia if sold at that price.
* * *
Melbourne masher collars are, in these
depressed days, made-up wrong side out—the
frayed face inside. This exposes the maker’s name
and other particulars, and the other day, on the
Block, an English johnnie proudly paraded,
oblivious of the fact that on his collar was con-
spicuously paraded the legend “ Made in Eng-
land.”
« # «
Property is the god of the Queensland
Govt., which at present seems to be Tommy
Byrnes and A. J. Thynne. A late Gazette offers
<£loo reward for an alleged woolshed arsonite, and
.£25 for the slayer of Margaret Lyons, who was
brutally done to death near Geraldton.


TO THE LADIES.
It i 3 generally admitted that you, ladies, have on
your shoulders the responsibility of the household,
and the care of providing for the welfare, at home,
of your husbands and the children.
You no doubt act up to the best of your abilities,
and yet there is one pertinent question which we
should like to ask you.
Do you give your children a drink
OUT OF THE TAP
when they are thirsty ?
If you do, you are running a fearful risk, especially
in the country, of bringing unwelcome visitors into
your home.
TYPHOID AND HYDATIDS
Are very prevalent just now in Sydney, and half the
cases are brought on by drinking unfiltered water.
Now in making up your mind to purchase a filter
at once, there is just one thing to bevvare of-ar.d
that is the old-fashioned Sponge or Carbon I liters;
and one thing to remember—that since the water in
Sydney is deficient in lime, the best filter to buy is
A LIMESTONE FILTER.
Let nothing induce you to buy any other kind.. If
you do, you will be sorry.
TOBIN & DAVIDSON’S “RAPID”
LIMESTONE FILTER is the best in the world.
It obtained
FIRST PRIZE
at the late Chicago Exposition, and costs, in the
small size, only 10s. fid.
Only lOs. 6d.
For 10s. fid. you can fulfil a grave duty, ana dis-
charge a serious responsibility.
Order through your local storekeeper, or, if in
town, call at our Show-rooms, 393 George-street,
opposite Royal Hotel.
A line from you will bring our illustrated circular,
telling you all about it. [Mention this paper, we
want to test its value.]
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO.,
393 George Street, Sydney.
Send ONE and 3 PENCE in STAMPS
(OF ANY COLONY)
And PURCHASE (Post Free) nny one of the following Useful Reference Books :
Profitable Poultry Book
The Self-Educator Book
Comic Recitations Book
Ready-made Speeches Book
How to Play Billiards
Colonists’ Guide to Health
How to Train-Running, etc.
The P ipillar Song Book
House Painting and Papering
Whist and Card Games
Athletics and Gymnastics
Familiar Quotations
Character in Faces and Features
Letter Writer’s Manual
Character in Handwriting
Handy Book on the Horse
Handy Carpentry Book
Manual of Book-keeping
Also, theJ allowing A. UStVClltdfl YdVflS, Detective StOTies, €tC,
Geoffrey Hamlyn (H. Kingsley)
Eulalie (VV. S. Hayward)
Lost for Gold (Katharine King)
Botany Bay (John Lang)
Assigned to His Wife (John Lang)
Gold Hunters’ Adventures (Thomas)
A Study in Scarlet (A. 0. Doyle)
The Sign of the Four ~
Light that Failed (R. Kipling)
The Right Sort (A. Kennard)
Out of Hurly-Burly (M. Adeler)
Elbow Room (M. Adeler)
Moina (L. L. Lynch)
A Slender Clue (L. L. Lynch)
Crime of Xmas Toy (H. Herman)
Broken Bonds (Hawley Smart)
False Cards ~ „
Play or Pay „ „
WARD* LOCK & BOWDEN, Ltd. (and all Booksellers), Melbourne.
IN THE HOT WEATHER.
THIS IS
THE TIME
OF YEAR
WHEN
MEN AND WOMEN
BECOME
Weakened by the weather and run down gener-
ally. Few people understand why this is so. Let
us tell you why this is : The parts the weather
first affects are the kidneys; the urea is not
thrown off, but is forced back upon the lungs
through the blood, and disease results.
BUT IT WAS CAUSED
BY WEAKNESS OF THE KIDNEYS.
There is only one way known to medicine or men
for promptly checking kidney troubles and
restoring those great organs to health and strength,
and that is by the use of Warner’s Safe^Cubb.
It has stood the test of time.
It has saved tens of thousands of lives.
It has restored hundreds of thousands of
sufferers to good health.
It has made men stronger and healthier.
It has made women brighter and happier.
It stands alone in all these qualities.
Warner’s Safe Cube was a scientific discovery,
ranking in value to humanity with vaccination,
ether, chloroform and other great discoveries.
Thousands of alleged medicines live their little
day, and others, like the “blue glass’’ cure, Dr.
Brown Sequard’s Elixir of Life, and Pasteur’s
Cure for consumption, apparently aid for a time,
but “in the long run” fail to accomplish what
their ardent inventors hoped for. Not so, how-
ever, with Warner’s Safe Cube, which has stood
the test of time in curing desperate diseases, and
to-day is more widely known and is doing more
good than any one medicine in the world.
ERARD &, CO.’S PIANOS.
W. H. PALING and CO., Limited,
Have just received a shipment of NEW PARISIAN
MODELS of these celebrated Pianos, in which have been
introduced VARIOUS IMPROVEMENTS of great impor-
tance, adding materially to the already well-known soli-
dity of construction and beauty of tone.
__ „ o r-» « m j Grand Pianofortes.
tKArtu a. uu. (Upright Pianofortes.
W. H. Paling & Co., Limited, SOLE AGENTS for the
celebrated High-class
PIANOS PIANOS PIANOS
by Steinway and Sons, Erard and Co., Julius Feurich,
Uebel and Lechleiter, Carl Ecke, Gors and Kallmann, the
“Victor,” the “Belling,” etc. Also, ha\ a large and
select stock of all other well-known makers, such as
Oollard, Kirkman, Lipp, etc.
ESTEY ORGANS.
Made upon honour, sold upon merit, known the world
over. The best and cheapest.
BOOSEY’S
PERFECTED BAND INSTRUMENTS.
The best for tone, tune and durability. Have received
First Prizes at all Exhibitions.
Easy Terms. Easy Terms.
Instruments sent everywhere on receipt of small deposit
and monthly instalments. Liberal Discount for Cash.
SHEET and BOOK MUSIC.
WIND & STRING INSTRUMENTS.
Illustrated Catalogues of Music, Pianos. Organs, Band
Instruments, etc., sent post free on application.
Pianos repaired or taken in exchange. Expert Tuners.
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
338 George Street, Sydney.
“ Persons of infamous character, pursuing
a dishonourable occupation !” Thus N.S.W. Judge
Windeyer about private detectives. Isn’t it about
time, then, that unofficial “shadowing” was
placed on an indictable par with “loitering,” and
that the divorce-case skunk came into unpleasant
contact with the “lawful visible” test so freely
applied to men whose only offence is impecu-
niosity ?
* • *
The Bulletin has been reading a story
entitled “Lost in the Australian Bush” in an
English periodical. The heroine rides down from
“ Gippsland to Sydney to attend a ball given by
the squatters of the neighbourhood.” The hero,
searching for the lost damsel, makes an enquiry
of a passing bullock-driver, who answers, ‘ Yes,
sir I found a lady fainting in yonder meadow,
anil I am now on my way for succour. Am I
, * iiovTOkla Hrmc?” Tnwnrd<* fr.hfl
addressing one of her relations? .towards the
end the happy pair are driven to their Gippsland
home in a handsome barouche emblazoned witn
the arras of the baronetcy to which Geoffrey has
so strangely succeeded.” Hum!
m
*
A week or two ago The Bulletin made
a few remarks about a mouldy who
calls round at the house of mourning, and tries to
trade off gloomy-looking memorial cards with
doggerel on them to the relatives of the deceased.
Whereupon, one firm in the trade, represented by
an eminently gentlemanly and carefully-dressed
potentate, sent along the following form of
apology, with a peremptory request that it should
appear in a conspicuous place :
In connection with a semi-humorous paragraph which
appeared in our issue of 3rd March, in reference to the
solicitation of orders for memorial cards, no allusion was
int' nded or implied to Blank and Cos., or their repreaenta-
tive, as this firm is of undoubted reputation, and are the
producers of first-class work in every branch of the print-
ra< e ‘, . , . ~ .
The senders of tins vigorous puff also enclosed a
sample card, with a gilt angel and three fowls
flying across it, and a verse in short metre at the
bottom, setting forth that Thomas —— is at rest,
It says a great deal for the deceased that he can
rest under such trying circumstances. The present
writer couldn’t. Anyhow, The Bulletin cheer-
fully accepts the assurance that the firm is of
“ undoubted reputation.”
Editor Bulletin, —Some of the
Queensland mourning -joard men send
round canvassers. Here in Melb. they
manage these things better. The daily
paper announces the death of John
Smith, aged 42, of Bungtown, and
straight away an envelope, apparently
holding a cabinet photo., is forwarded
to “The Executors of the late John
Smith, of Bungtown.” This on ex-
amination is found to contains highly-
finished eulogy of deceased with name,
age, and all particulars engraved. A
printed circular states the price and
asks that the card, if not approved
of, may be returned. The card has a
couple of verses of slop “poetry” on
it, but if you prefer your own poetry,
made to measure, which the slop poetry
isn’t, you can have it—so obliging is the
co. There are several of these engraving
corporations, and each takes particular
care to emphasise that it has “no con-
nection with the others.” —W.S.
• # *
A lady recently wrote to the
Melb. postmaster, asking for the ad-
dress of “a widower, rather short,
wears glasses, with one little boy two
years of aare,” whose name she had for-
gotten. She is still looking for him,
probably with a view to being a mother
to the little boy two years of age.
* # *
Ooolgardie is to have a per-
manent hospital. The uniformed hos-
pital-nurse lias long been one of the
attractions of the field. To women who
want to marry, The Bulletin’s advice
is —go to Ooolgardie when it has
rained.
A letter from a seceding New Australian,
published in the S.A. Register, says the wives
amongst the 81 who have left the settlement would
not go back even if the men were inclined to.
Already the female pilgrim is harrowed with a
horrible dread that her hat is out of fashion.
Some men have luck. Especially a Melb.
man who, when he grossly assaulted a young lady>
was merely fined, though the public thought he
ought to have got three months. Now he gets
fined again for an offence which, were he nob well-
dressed, would earn him six months “straight”
—the alternative of said fine.
« « *
A Melbourne Age advt. :
T ODGINGS, breakfast, 3s. 6d. ; board and lodging,
9s. 6d. ; ladies, 7s. lid.
The difference, then, according to this practical
advertiser, between a man’s gorge and a woman’s
peck only amounts to Is. 7d. a week; or, dis-
tributed over 21 meals, nob quibe a pen’orth a
meal.
* # #
Mr. Huntington, in Liberator :
The camel has proved of material assistance in settling
the back country. About seven or eight years ago, a
string cf camels arrived on Upper Cooper’s Creek from
S.A., laden chiefly with flour. It was a perfect godsend,
as we had eaten no bread for ten weeks, and were living
entirely on beef. The drought did not break up for six
months after, and, but for the camels, w'e must have
existed on a diet of halt-starved beef for that period.
White men have been employed for years past on Mount
Murchison and other stations as drivers for the con-
veyance of rations and wool.
• • *
Tu Walgetfc (N.S.W.) Police-court : “Was
your daughter born in wedlock !” “No, sir; she
was born in Wellington.”
» # »
It has been laid down in a Yictorian court
that a man may work on Sunday providing he
is working for himself. This lets the clergy off.
, . ,
A Melbourne man, who has been support-
ing his father for several years past out of his
salary, has just discovered that the old man isn’t
his father at all. Considering how salaries go in
Melbourne just now the transaction is a pleasant
thing to look back upon. The real progenitor was
married in New York in ’6B, and shortly after
made a stratagio movement for Australia owing
AT OUR HASH-HOUSE.
LANDLADY : “ Now, gentlemen, say what part of the goose you will have.’
Chorus of Single Gents: “Leg, please.”
LANDLADY: “I beg your pardon —I said goose, nob centipede!"
to the usual deficiency in the cash. H 1 ®
eldest son, then an infant, grew up an (l
also came to Australia, and in Melbourne
his presumable parent called on him and
tearfully fell against him with his neg-
lected head upon the son’s bosom. He
answered all questions satisfactorily, and was
taken in and cared for. His billet as parent
lasted two years or so, but at the end of that
period he gave way to the yearning which comes
over almost everybody sooner or later to breathe
his tale into the ear of a friend, and thereby his
scheme was wrecked. The story was simply that
the real father was dead, and that, having got
sundry papers which once belonged to the corpse,
he had set up as a bogus parent on the strength of
them. This individual is now for sale, and anyone
who wants an affectionate father can have him
cheap.
• • »
The nauseous divorce evidence which
N.S.W. judges prohibited being published by
Sydney papers can be read in cold type in at least
one Victorian newspaper. This is one of the
advantages of non-Eederation.
# # *
Still another incident of the Maoriland
election. The wife of one candidate got up a com-
mittee of ladies to boom his interests, and the
henfranchised committee ate and drank much at
her house, and assumed airs of offensive patronage
to their hostess on the ground that they were
going to put her husband in. But it was under-
stood that they were all just fit to drop with
exhaustion through working in the good cause,
and the politician’s wife put up with them as best
she could—until the result was declared, and at
the local polling place that candidate had only
one vote. It was his wife’s own vote, too. The
committee was having refreshments at her expense
when the news arrived, and the vigour with
which it was thrown out into the street before it
had even time to wipe the crumbs off its mouth is
said to have been unprecedented.
A certain Yictorian hotel-keeper has ceased
to leave a bottle of beer outside his back door ere
retiring to rest. He used to put it there every
night for the policeman, and the policeman used
to tell him, next morning, how much he had
enjoyed the refreshment, but those times are gone
never to return. The landlord was always a heavv
sleeper. His wife, as far as he knew, slumbered
sweetly the while upon the adjoining pillow. A
thirsty traveller came along at 2 a.m. the other
night and rang violently until the landlord awoke
to the fact that his connubial partner was not
present. Not being a lonely man by disposi-
tion he went downstairs to find his missing
link. The first thing he found was a policeman s
outfit lying on the bar-counter. In a room hard
by he discovered a policeman au naturel the
same myrmidon whom he had been lubricating
gratis—in animated conversation with the lady of
the house. She was wearing a complete Venus
costume trimmed in the Godiva style, and the
landlord’s first impulse was to blush. Oneminute
later the thirsty traveller, waiting for the door to
be opened, was staggered by the apparition or
Adam and Eve flying from Eden. Adam s helmet
and other garments came flying after him, but Eve
left without encumbrances. Her subsequent
movements are known only to the pale moon and
a policeman, who, when last seen, was leaning
against a lamp post to put on his socks. The door
of the pub. closed noiselessly, and the rest is
silence.
« * *
From a Maoriland paper ; “ Wanted situa-
tion as cook, laundry or dairy maid. None but a
respectable mistress who wishes to leave her
servant in uninterrupted discharge of her duties
need apply.”
» * •
Under the new Maoriland law any person
starting a street fight is liable to 12 months in
gaol. A good thing too.
# # •
The explosive energy exhibited in late
Presbyterian gatherings in N.S. W. would indicate
that that body is growing an Active Service and
an Anti-Humbug League within its own boun-
daries. Truly, all established forms of opinion
are being killed from within.
• # •
One clause from a bill which some old he-
female is now pushing through Massachusetts
(U.S.) State Legislature :
No woman shall appear at a public performance in a
dress or skirts which do not come within at least four
inches of the floor, and the waist of which is so constructed
that any part of her person is exposed below the neck ;
also no woman shall appear in tights or appear at public
performances in the high-kicking, serpentine, hip or skirt
dances.
There will be a splendid opening for the lawyer
who appears under this Act for a defendant,
charged with being unduly V-shaped in public,
as the bill apparently fails to define the exact spot
where a woman’s neck ends and her back begins.
The Bulletin, after considering many varieties
of evening dress, is unable to recognise the limit
to a woman’s neck.
Justice Hood discussing the trifling “irregularity of a
Melbourne solicitor: “By his own statement he had done
that which a solicitor had no right to do. He had applied
client’s money to his own use, and when asked for it was
not able to comply with the request. _ (Read that sentence
slowly, 15 times, so that it may soak in.) That would be
little or no offence in a layman, but it was an offence in a
professional man " :
Since Parkes went to Western Australia
we learn there is an I O U claim at Ooolgardie.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
17 of this issue.
A London cable tells of a Nihilist convent
in Russian Poland, the “nuns” of which were
found busily engaged in the manufacture of
explosive bombs. One “ nun ” shot two of the
military police. Three “ nuns” were killed in the
engagement and the remainder were arrested.
The genial Walter Sidney still pursues his
uninterrupted course of success at the Imperial
Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney. The constant
stream of travelling visitors who make this
hostelry their home, together with the crowds who
daily congregate after an enjoyable luncheon in
the tastefully-decorated smoking lounge, situated
between the dining-room and the main entrance-
hall, bear ample testimony to the fact that good
management and careful selection of the choicest
brands of refreshing drinks are the only certain
means to ensure prosperity in conducting an
establishment of this kind.
NEXT TO NOTHING
The i ad j es bathing in the seas
Must wear their gowns from necks to knees ;
A( . playg( where prudeg are not on view>
A gown that’s necks to nought will do.
"
A WISH AND POSSIBILITIES.
/GENTLEMAN, 22, late Queensland, wishes to meef
quiet Girl, about 18. Liberal, c/o G.P.O.
—Sydney B. News advb.
Some maiden angel-fair, and graced
Of lithe lips tinged with hue of corals.
Swathed in a muslin dream of chaste
And fiercer fancies, interlaced,
Attenuated both in waist
And morals.
And if Fate with his wish agrees,
Let's hope—wbate’er occurs—
That it he only gets her, he’s
Prepared with gladsome jubilees
To thank the gods upon his knees,
Or hers.
D.W.
Dear Bulletin,—l am a layman mean,
My head isn’t made of wood,
So I rise, in the name of his Gracious Queen,
To sit upon Justice Hood —
To sit upon him in the layman sense
Of a figure of speech that’s low.
I may be dull, or extremely dense,
But, sticking to things I know,
I’ll roughly strike my heart strings, whence
Rude doggerel strains will flow.
It isn’t a question of lawyers’ law.
Or a matter of lawyers’ righ t
That moves me to flourish an inky paw
In the face of a legal light.
’Tis little I care about musty Acts
Or humbugging “rules to quash
As a simple supporter of layman facts
I svvear that the Judge talks hosh.
“ Yer Honor,” I say, as his brow contracts,
“ Your libel on us won’t wash.”
That yarn won’t wash, in the layman sense
Of a metaphor impolite.
A lawyer’s “ fault ” is a large offence
Wherever a wrong’s not right;
A damned offence, in our layman eyes —
We give it a nasty name.
Woe to the clerkling rash who tries
A similar kind of game ! .
I wear no wig, but “ there ain’t no flies
On my argument, ail the same.
Dear Bulletin,—l am a layman mean,
And probably not much good,
But I rise, in the name of his Gracious Queen,
To differ from Justice Hood.
The lawyer fox in his dingy den
Is sinfully slow to “ part; ”
Yet, out in the world, live struggling men
Who spit at the deeds called smart.
If honour comes not within legal ken,
Still it lurks in the layman heart.
E.F.


BEST
AJTD
CHEAPEST.
Established
1826.
g
•n Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOB
INFANTS.
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
I Olotlieta wltb. Air,
CeUular . Aertex Underclothing.
For Comfort during Hot Weather.
A POSITIVE SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS.
Recommended by Medical Faculty.
Just Opened;
Ecru Xilale Singlets, 6s.
Extra fine and light tor tropical wear. Specially re-
commended as being easily washed, unshrinkable and
very durable.
Extra LIGHT MAKE in BAY and DRESS SHIRTS,
with best Linen Fronts and Cuffs and Lisle Thread Bodies.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Caps, Pyjamas,
Braces, Belts and Hosiery.
Pamphlet, Price Lists and full particulars,
BBAHAM & MUTCH, 75 King Street, Sydney.
VO.
tROMARtt
v.o
CROMARTY
Whisky:
CffECNLEES BROTHERS
OMSCOWIOMDONAND
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
—THE—
Wentworth Hotel
EHTWOWTH- HQTtf I
yyi
at
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
Australian
Mutual 0 c
Provident Society.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
In Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAEI
Dire WATKPR e - Deputy-Chairman ; J. T.
Pqn T p E - R i?n.?T riren S i L Tl F°H£T> Esq ‘ • BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS,
Esq., J.P.. ROBT. J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECB, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
Accumulated Funds ... ... Over Eleven Millions sterling
e CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over
One Million sterling.
■ H - ead Office: 87 I*itt Street, Sydney.
RICHARD B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Bank of Van Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION.
GRAND LOTTERY
Conducted by GEO. ADAMS (“Tattersall’s”) as Sole Agent.
300,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 373 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
Apply Early,
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
THE GREAT
Scandinavian Remedv
—FOR—
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Chest and Pulmonary
Complaints, Nervous Exhaustion, Rheumatism,
Gout, Chalky Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, Neuralgia,
Bright’s Disease, Kidney and Liver Disorders,
British Cholera, and all Blood and Skin Diseases.
Thespian Institute, 168 Bay-street, Glebe, Nov. 22, ’93.
Professor Thulinius.—My Dear Sir,—l feel I should be want-
ing in duty, did I neglect the opportunity of sending you my
testimony as to thp wondrous efficacy of your rheumatic
specific. For the past ten years I have been a complete
martyr to rheumatism in all its forms. I have tried doctors
. . - • . with a view of effecting a cure for this most trying
disease I am well-known, and scores can testify
that at best I could only crawl about with difficulty. . . “
After leaving Little Bay Hospital at the close of last year I
was persuaded to try a bottle of your “Thulinius,” and in a
week or so afterwards I could get about fairly well. Upon
again suffering a relapse last February, I took another bottle,
with an equally successful result; but at last I determined to
go through a course of treatment, and I have just completed
my fourth bottle, with the gratifying knowledge that I am
quite free from pain, can walk any reasonable distance with-
out fatigue, have an excellent appetite, and feel myself again
competent to re-enter my profession, added to which my oft-
repeated attacks of pleurisy have become a thing of the past.
I have not dieted myself in any way, so all the credit is due to
your wonderful remedy, under Providence, that my blood is
becoming purer daily, and its effect upon my liver and kid-
neys most pronounced. ... I shall only be too glad
personally to convince fellow-sufferers of the benefits to be
derived from a course of your treatment, as exemplified in
my own case, after ten years’ martyrdom.—l remain, yours
faithfully, W. H. NEWTON NEWMAN (Teacher of Elocution
and twenty-five years Actor and Manager).
[The Rev. J. D. Langley, St. Philip’s Parsonage, and Mr. H. H.
Lusk, Barrister-at-Law, can testify as to the crippled state of
Mr. Newman prior to his taking “Thulinius.”]
Depot: 15 VICTORIA ARCADE, entrance from Elizabeth-street (near
street, opposite “ The Australia” Hotel, SYDNEY. BOX 1405 G.P.O.
Write for Pamphlets and particulars of successfully treated cases.
ĝ
ğ
t\e
g
Remedy
ARE YOU A SHAREHOLDER
IN THE
WOGGONORA
BUILDING SOCIETY?
20,000 Shares ett £l.
IF NOT, DON’T DELAY IN SENDING FOR A £1 SHARE. NO LIABILITY-
):(
You may thus obtain a Home and a handsome Yearly Income by investing £l, and
save yourself years of toil. For Shares, Prospectus, and all details, apply to
GEORGE STORY, Secretary,
Cuxmamulla, QueensUmd.
& 52
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorea, &c., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by j. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
JEtidout’s City Club So tel
(facing the Public Instruction Office),
IS YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY 156
Is now the rendezvous in the Civil Service
quarter of the City for the EXCELLENCE of its
Cuisine and Liquors.
H. R. Ridout ... Proprietor.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. fc>ci.
jSftKMC CCTOOJr
i[enry KeStifS
«. TRADE MARK
«ole Agents for HENRY HEATH,
Price 9a. 6d,
A Spleqdid Hat for Boating', Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travel! ng ; (he Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
C 3-. H. SMITH & SOUXT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
IMPORTANT MEDICAL NOTICE.
Dr. CLINTON, M.D., F.11.G.5.
(registered),
Late Physician to Special Hospitals for Diseases of Women,
Cancer and Consumption, may be CONSULTED DAILY
from 12 to i, at 70 llun'er Street (o.pp. Tram), or
Stratbfield (opp. Council Chambers). Dr. CLINTON
has for years made a special study of the abovenamed
diseases, and has had a wide experience In the chief
Special Hospitals devoted to their treatment, both in
Europe and America, and holds certificates from the lead-
ing specialists of the present day.
DISEASES OP WOMEN.
Many years devoted to this important Specialty enables
Dr. Clinton to offer the soundest and best advice, and his
treatment has proved eminently satisfactory in hundreds
of cases.
DISEASES OP THE CHEST.
As House Physician for two years to one of the largest
Special Hospitals for Consumption, and as Assistant to
leading Specialists in Berlin and Paris, Dr. CLINTON has
enjoyed unusual facilities for studying these particular
diseases.
CANCER.
The most trustworthy and latest scientific treatment is
guaranteed, and those suffering from this dreaded
disease are invited to consult Dr. CLINTON, who has
probably had a wider practical experience in this disease
than most medical men.
NERVOUS DISEASES.
Those desirous of consulting a reliable registered
Physician of thirty years’ practical experience are invited
to do so either personally, or by letter, in strictest con-
fidence. As House Surgeon to the London, Paris and
Vienna Special Hospitals, and as Clinical Assistant to
Professors Ricord and Brown Sdquard, Dr. CLINTON has
had an unique experience.
CONSULTATIONS.
Moderate Fees (consistent with able advice and a life’s
experience) including medicine.
COUNTRY PATIENTS
Unable to personally consult Dr. CLINTON are invited to
correspond by letter, entering fully into details. Every
case will be most carefully considered, and the fullest
directions for treatment, including sufficient medicine'for
one week, will be forwarded, post free, securely packed, cn
receipt of ONE GUINEA. Resident patients received,
Highest reference* and hundreds of Testimonials.
Dr. CLINTON, M.D., F.R.C.S.,
70 Hunter Street, Sydney, and Strathfield
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98,O’Connell St., N.Adelaide, S.Australia
H. a. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Hair Will Go Grey.
GOOCH’S
ELESTEIO m
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and Is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only being necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.).
Importer of Human Hair,
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
f-Vw
mSrn:
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER, /i
Bottles, Is. and 2s. 6d.
M BEETHAM&SON. Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIMVVADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Teetotal Vale, M.L.A., at a Melbourne
feting : “I must tell you I am a party man.”
Shrill voice ; “Yes, a tea ; party man.”
A travelling correspondent to The Bulle-
tin
On the Norddeutscher Lloj'd steamers the punkahs are
worked by the stewards. They stand outside and pull tht
ropes through the portholes. We have it terribly hot at
present, and it is pitiful to see these poor wretches grafe
away at the ropes to keep us cool. With a little expense
the engines could do this work.
It has now been clearly proved that the
N.S.W, Pastoralists’ Union had moved to reduce
shearing-rates for the coming season before ever
tne Shearers’ Union Conference sat and con-
sidered the question of refusing to furnish P.U.
references to squatters. P.U. members were
circularised in January to the effect that the
P.U. executive committee was considering the
question of altering the shearing agreement; the
Shearers’ Conference did not meet till February 2.
The P.U. now declines to recognise the ’9l agree-
ment and demands from each shearer a reference
and —&l deposit !
London newspaper “ad.” :
JDERSONS in Spiritual Difficulty and Trouble may
see by appointment, matured Christian ladies
and gentlemen (in camera and confidence), at 17
Beaumont-st., Marylebone (5 minutes’ walk from
Baker-st. Station). There need be no reference to
Church or creed, and certainly will not be any attempt
to obtain money or to proselytise.
Everything possible will be done to lead such in-
quirers to the living Christ.
Those who are sick and need spiritual help will be
visited by arrangement.
All letters to be addressed the Rev. Darlow Sarjeant,
Nicholas House, 17 Beaumont-street, Marylebone, W.
(marked “ Chambers.”)
Underneath this notice, as a horrible example of
the general unfitness of things, appears an advt.
headed “Vermin Trap.”
Retrenchment bears fruit in the Far
North of S. A. There is a small coastal town
where one constable is both lockup-keeper and
sergeant-in-charge. He gets a shilling a day
to tucker each prisoner, and he makes it pay better
than Mt. Morgan. Recently 18 Javanese were in
for 14 days, also a white man for eight, through
“ doing up his screw ”in snake-juice. The latter
was put into a small cell with 13 Javs. for com-
panions. They never had a wash —so soap was
saved. “Tucker” consisted of sweet potatoes
twice a day, bread and salt junk once every third
day. No tea—only a bucket of water. Sweet
potatoes are 3s. per cwt., and salt beef 12s. 6d.
per cwt. The lockup-keeper thus netted 15s. per
day out of his batch of prisoners. No wonder he
hurries up his “min” when he bears of Javs.
bolting from plantations.


SKINS
Kangaroo.
AND
Opossum.
ALL OTHER SKINS.
Babbit.
g
EXTEUSIYE
PBEPABATIOUS POB THE C O IMII 35T G-
SEASOIST.
M'BURNEY, WALLIS & CO.
N. M'BURNEY.
B. S. WALLIS.
A. HENSON.
R. C. FRANKS.
S. J. HEAD.
15 to 29 years with the late Firm
of Mort & Co., and Golds-
brough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Stores—Margaret Street and Circular Quay. Offices—Macquarie Street, Sydney.
The Best House in the Trade for PERSONAL ATTENTION to Consignments and QUICK RETURNS. MEMBERS OF THE FIRM CONDUCT ALL SALES. *3T WR
OUR BOOKS ON THE GET-UP OF SKINS, etc.
Slieepslslns and Butclxers* Produce a Speciality.
TATTERSALL’S
SYDNEY CUP— 26th MARCH.
SYDNEY CUP— 26th MARCH.
PINAL HANDICAP—3IST MARCH
MARCH HANDICAP— 24th MARCH
ET* 25.000 at 5.
10.000 at 10.
10.000 at 5.
10.000 at 5.
[■“ TATTERS ALL,”
Care of Gboroe Adams,
“The Telegraph” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
L Brisbane, Queensland.
g
DR. A- WILFORD HALL’S
GREAT HYGIENIC DISCOVERT
For the cure of nearly all diseases witnout the use
of Medicine.
The appliance complete, comprising one S all ° n , bro'ized
Fountain, six feet of good quality Rubber TubingoniuininK Itm
Clip and Ivory Hoc urn Tube, will! Free Book eontaimng lull
instructions, price 55., posted 9d. extra.
Donald Kurtz. 264 Russell St., Melbourne.
■
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code: “WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
“Australian Form at a Glance." Now Ready, 1/-;
Posted, 1/1. Best reference for Current Events. CHAS.
WESTBROOK will be in the Old Spot in the Paddock at
Randivick during the Autumn Meeting.
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
k
ROSEH ILL CUP.
2000 at 2 6
MAY DAY CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BRISBANE CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BIRTHDAY CUP.
10,000 at 2 6
(ROSEHILL)
April 14,1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 1,1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 24. 1894.
(RAND WICK)
May 26,1894.
Address “STAR,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE.
OKMODBIf*
[Wmrniin
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other!
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 60 KING STREET
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. GEO, W. ELLIS,
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE
Lessees .. Frank Thornton and Charles Arnold.
LAST TWO WEEKS! LAST TWO WEEKS 1
and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES ol
The THOKNTON-AKNOLD COMPANY.
To-Night (Thursday, March 22) To-Night
‘ Hans tlie Boatman.’
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS I
Miss JENNIE LEE.
To-Night, Thursday, March 22, “THE GRASSHOPPER.”
Saturday, March 24, and for Six Nights Only,
“THE AMAZONS.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Albury missing word competi-
tions. DOUBLE GUESSES-No. 6.
“Self-defence was the object aimed at when arming
the Sydney police with revolvers. If the weapon is other-
wise employed, constables will become particularly
citizens, and cause more alarm to the public than to the
burglar and garrotter.”
CLOSES APRIL 14.—Every Competitor allowed two
guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O. Order, 1A
if in stamps. Add exchange to Postal notes other
colonies. Total amount (less 10 per cent.) divided amongst
successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited, in asealed envelope, with
Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known Albury Bookseller.
No. 5 Competition paid £3 14s. to each successful com-
petitor. (See last Bulletin.)
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
VITALITAS.
The Great French Nerve & Brain Restorative.
A specific for Nervousness, Debility, Weakness, etc.
It quickly and permanentlj' restores the enfeebled con-
dition, resulting from excesses, worry and overwork, and
can be relied upon as a genuine aphrodisiac, prepared
in the form of Pills. PRICE, 3s. per Box, post free.
National llruf/ Co., Hassell-st., Melbourne .
Amusements.
FILLIS’S.
FILLIS’S. FILLIS’S.
FILLIS’S.
Fillis’s Circus!
emeus
emeus
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
emeus
emeus
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
emeus
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
emeus
emeus
CIRCUS
emeus
emeus
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
emeus
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
emeus
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
emeus
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
emeus
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
Commencing
Friday Evening, 16th March.
MAMMOTH—{ TENTS }—MAMMOTH
erected opposite
Redfern Railway Station.
The Coming EASTER Attraction,
/ ONE SHILLING \
1 ONE SHILLING J
Best Shilling Entertainment in Sydney
PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALS!
SPLENDID
OPENING PROGRAMME
Embracing 20 Items.
THE REALISTIC AND EXCITING
STAG HUNT
STAG HUNT
.
Introducing 100 Ladies, Gentlemen and
Horses.
FIRST MATINEE,
Next Saturday Afternoon, at 3 o'clock,
When Children will be admitted to all
parts for
6d, tsr Oca-
Popular Prices of Admission:
Dress Circle, 3/-; Stalls, 2/-; Gallery, 1/-
Special Reserve, 4/-
Cbildren Half-price (Gallery excepted).
MENAGERIE MENAGERIE MENAGERIE
MENAGERIE MENAGERIE MENAGERIE
Royal agricultural society of
N.S.W.
GREAT EASTER SHOW.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY,
MONDAY, and TUESDAY,
21st to 27th March.
Unparalleled in Magnitude and in its many New
AND STRIKING FEATURES.
GRAND PARADES of 450 HORSES, 200 CATTLE, &c.
POLO EXHIBITION.
GENTLEMEN’S HUNTERS’ CONTEST.
For a quiet inspection of the thousands of inter*
esting and instructive objects concentrated within
our gates, devote an hour or two in the evenings,
when the Brush Electrical Company will transform
the spacious Show Grounds into a
FAIRY TABLEAU
of yet unrealised picturesquenesa and beauty.
Professor SCOTT will give a
FIERY FEAST OF FIREWORKS
on
THURSDAY. FRIDAY, SATURDAY, and
MONDAY EVENINGS.
All the most recent
TRIUMPHS OF MECHANICAL GENIUS
will be displayed AT WORK both by
DAY and NIGHT.
Admission: Day, Is; Children, 6d. Evening, Is j
Children, 6d. F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
OYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OP
N.S.W.
GREAT EASTER SHOW.
THIS WEEK ! THIS WEEK ! 1
NOTICE TO EXHIBITORS.
The enormous quantity of Exhibits makes it
necessary that Exhibitors should complete all
their arrangements for effective display AT
ONCE, or they may be shut out.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Royal agricultural society of
N.S.W.
NOTICE. OFFICE REMOVAL.
At noon TO-DAY, Monday, this Office will be
closed. Removed to the Show Ground.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Tattersall’s Chambers, Hnnter-st., Sydney.
HER MAJESTY’S THE\THg:
Sole Lessee . Mr. George Rignni.l.
ANOTHER GREAT SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING
(by arrangement with \V. J. Hollowai, Esq.)
“THE SHAMROCK AND TH3 ROSE.” -
Interpreted by a Specially-selpeied Cast:
New Prictß of Admission. BOX PLAN at tUEATRE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Crozier, the wealthy S.A. sport, owner of
Vakeel, Fulham, &c., sells his stud prior to giving up
racing. Vakeel won last Adelaide Cup.
♦ • • *
The sentence of three months’ gaol passed upon
“ Gala,” for sweep-promoting at Sydney, has been altered
to a fine of £5O and sureties for good behaviour. The
difference which has been made by the law between the
N.S.W. sweepmakers constitutes a gross scandal, and the
public, as is usual where obvious favouritism is officially
shown, are not slow to attribute definite motives and
point their fingers at those apparently concerned in the
job.
* • * •
The apparent moral of recent Vie. race-meetings
is— “Buy S.A.-bred stock.” The latter have won all along
the line.
* • * *
E. Jones, whose fast bowling won the cricket-
match for S.A. against Victoria, received as a reward £2O,
a pair of boots, cricket bat, the historical ball mounted in
silver, and a silk umbrella for “ the missus.” Premier
Kingston donated the boots.
» * • »
A good cricket-match in Adelaide. The Aus-
trals (the new junior team) made 423 against Norwood.
The tatter, without the Giffens, 409. Veteran Jimmy
Gooden, who played in interprovinoial matches 15 years
ago, scored 137.
• * * *
Tom Sullivan, of Maoriland (says The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent), had a great gathering the
night he opened his Hammersmith pub., to wish him
success. At all events, he has started with the kudos
(whatever that may be worth) attaching to him as the
trainer of Harding (who beat Bubear), and to the belief
that by-and-bye, if he does not drink too much of his own
“swankey,” he will be able to take down Stanbury’s
number on the Thames.
* » » »
Hugh Callow, billiard - marker, White Hart
Hotel, Haydonton, N.S.W., last week made a break of
1115, mostly from cannons.
» » * *
Tommy Corrigan urges that steeplechases should
be run earlier in the afternoon—as “ the farther the sun is
from its ztnith the more it glints on to the fences, which
consequently cannot be seen by horses.”
• * * *
As he is matched against Sullivan, the Maori-
lander now settled in England, Lambert, of N.S.W., will
soon have a chance of proving whether he is as good as
his friends claim— i.e., better than any living sculler.
* * • *
The American (?) champion, Corbett, was born
in Tuam, Ireland. The English champion, Mitchell, cer-
tainly hails from Brummagem, but his parents were
Irish and so is his temper, and very bad at that. Which
recalls the Aeous’ praise of Peter Jackson’s “Anglo-
Saxon pluck." Corbett and Jackson, it is fixed, are to
fight in London.
• • • •
Geo. Giffen heads the Australian batting
average with 75, M‘Leod coming next with 43, Moses
third 42.4.
* • * »
To account for Titan’s recovery and reversal
of form there are several queer stories. One is that the
gelding, as he got old, used to hang back on hearing
other horses behind him. To cure this habit his ear-
drums were pierced, with the result that he again began
to forge ahead. A more probable yarn is that the horse
was “got at” soon after being purchased by Mr. Brodribb,
and did not recover for a long time from the dose
administered
♦ * • •
Wendouree (Ballarat) crew easily won the Yic.
Champion Eight contest last Saturday, three lengths
ahead of the hitherto unbeaten Yarra Yarra, who were
in turn five past the much-boomed Mercantiles. Corio
Bay (Geelong), the other starter, threw up the sponge at
the end of two miles, and rowed silently home. The
result will do much to liven up the sport down South, for
the championship has, for the last three years, been practi-
sally a walk-over for the now waning Yarras. The time
was 17min. 6sec., as against the 15min. 45sec.of 12 months
ago over the same course of 3 miles 330yds. Why don’t
the rowing authorities organise an interprovincial club
race ? If, say, the Wendouree, Warrnambool, Yarra Yarra,
North Shore, East Sydney and Mercantile (N.S.W.) could
arrange a meeting, it would cause ten times the interest,
among oarsmen, of the ordinary interprovincial affair.
* • ♦ »
So great is the horror of Yic. Football Associa-
tion at the idea, however remote, of professionalism in
connection with their strictly amateur game, that that
virtuous body decided to abolish the payment of the gate-
keepers employed at matches by the day, and to sub-
stitute a sliding-scale in proportion to the attendance at
each match. For instance, on a wet day, when the
takings fail to reach £2O, the sodden janitor has Is. 6d.
docked off his fair-weather screw, and so on. For petty
meanness the V.F. A. about takes the cake, and its action
is entitled to take its place among the doings of the
champion mean men. So writes a correspondent.
« ♦ * *
The Irex won the Intercolonial Sailing Race at
Brisbane, with Cansebie second, and Portia third. The
Bulletin was actually second last. If this happens again
the name must be changed.
• » * *
At Manly (Sydney), last Saturday, Arthur
Cavill, brother of Ernie of that ilk, won the 200 yards
amateur championship of N.S.W. in a style joyful to
behold. He is the coming swimmer, and will probably
stand in the front rank of aquatic cracks in the near
future. Apropos, on the same day, at the North Shore,
one of the Misses Cavill won a ladies’ race. Verily they
are a great family of swimmers.
Re Portsea’s record for the Champion, sm.
234sjc. : O i beiting Chester in '7B, First King won in a
canter in sm. 26sec. James Wilson says that if pushed
the horse could have got home in 5.20. “ Augur ” Chap-
man, even when the doings of Carbine and Abercorn
were' fresh in the public mind, declared in print that First
King, when he won his first Champion—the only occasion
on which he was fully trained-was the best horse ever
seen in Australia.
* * * ♦
The syndicate of which Mr. J. B. Clark is the
figurehead is understood to consist of Mr J. C. Bowden
(of Cramsie, Bowden and 00., well-known in connection
with the Murray River steamboat trade), W. Bailey and
Martin Loughliu (both of Ballarat), T. Payten, and T.
Hales.
• ♦ * *
The world’s tallest cricketer is said to be
“Jumbo” Reid, a young Cornstalk playing in Scotland
with the Edinburgh Australians. He stands 6ft. BJin. in
his socks and fields at point.
• * • *
Ballarat went into deep mourning on the day of
Paddy M'Gowan’s funeral. Shops shut up, flags were
lowered to half-mast, boys refrained from playing
marbles, and the funeral of the deceased jockey was a mile
in length. To attain true greatness in Australia a man
must go to scale at seven stone, or be able to lick Peter
Jackson. The average-sized person has simply no chance
of glory.
6 '• • * *
A verse from “ The Death of Poor Paddy
M'Gowan,” a poem published at a penny:—
It’s a terrible tale to tell,
Of an accident that befell
In the Bourke Handicap, that awful mishap
O’er all the course cast a spell.
The horses were ranged up in a line,
Like satin their smooth coats did shine;
The start it was made, no time was delayed.
For victory each rider did pine.
Poor Paddy M'Gowan with victory flushed,
And hope in his bosom but borne to be crushed ;
For just as the horses were rounding the bend
’Twas Linburn who stumbled and caused his sad end.
* ♦ » *
The young jockey should contrast the careers of
Hales and Gorry and draw his own conclusion.
* * * •
Mr. D. H. Harvey, for many years the right-
hand man of “Tattersall" Adams, has retired from his
position owing to ill-health, and proposes to take a long
rest.- To all intents and purposes Mr. Harvey was, at
least, half of “Tattersall,” George Adams being the
other half, and he had much to do with making the
famous consultations the most popular, most honest, and
most successful gamble in Australia. The retiring
manager got a stupendous send-off from his staff, the
said send-off including a silver-fitted travelling-bag, an
illuminated address, and the customary refreshments
which are the Australian substitute for the finer
emotions.
• * ♦ •
The N.S.W. Interprovincial Eight-oar people
are having their annual little snarls. Messrs. Robson and
Quist are the new coaches—vied Johnson, resigned in a
huff.
• • • •
Some good trotting times should be put up at
Sydney Agricultural Show at Easter. The track is the
only one about Sydney fit to make fast time on, and there
will be the novelty of seeing the whole field “on the job.
••. • •
Dear Bulletin, —Your contributor errs ini stat-
ing that there were cleverer men than Jem Mace with the
gloves who would not dare to lace him in the ring, and
that it was to his wrestling abilities he owed his victories
over big men like King ; also, that modern glove-fights
demand less than half the skill and courage of the old
P.R. As a matter of fact, Jem Mace was the only scien-
tific boxer of his day, and it is doubtful if the latter days
have produced his peer with the mittens. A small man
had no more show with a good big man in the bare-
knuckle days than he has in the present with the gloves,
and Mace and Sayers were the only two middle-weights
who held their ends up against all comers, and that
simply because there were no good big men to meet
them. Mace beat King, but King returned the compli-
ment at their second meeting ; and, as for Sayers, he met
Heenan, not a fighter, but a wrestler, and when the
British crowd, seeing their man to all intents and pur-
poses beaten, rushed the ring-as they smashed Black
Molineux’s fingers when he was beating their champion,
Tom Cribb—Heenan jumped the ropes and ran like a
deer, a hundred yards or so, to show how fresh he was.
As for courage, the raw meat little , un could hit a big
’un drop to avoid punishment, and take his “ time,
but’ the latter-day gladiator must not go down with-
out a blow, and if knocked down he must be up
in ten seconds, without the assistance of his seconds, and
battle on for the remainder of the three-minute round.
Little “Bendigo” beat the colossal Ben Gaunt without
showing any wrestling ability or courage. Bendy would
lump in, hit the giant and fall down on his knees, which
so savaged Gaunt that he “ wiped ” Bendigo across the
mouth whilst the little ’un was on his knees, and the fight
was given to Bendigo on the foul. Had your contributor
seen the boxing contest between Smith and M'Carty, now
both in the States, at Larry Foley’s White Horse Hotel,
privately, one afternoon, he would for ever hold his peace
as to the dogged courage and ability to take punishment
required in a Queensberry contest fought to the bitter
end.-W.
Linotype type-setting machines are being
introduced by a syndicate of Australian news-
papers on behalf of which Manager Wynne, of
Sydney D.T., lately visited America. In the
D.T. office aforesaid there are now 74 compositors,
52 of whom are at once to be displaced by the
machines, and so, presumably, it will be with the
other daily papers. A shocking prospect for the
poor printer during the coming winter.
Like master, like servant. Two Chartered
00. troopers are accused of having indirectly
caused the slaughter of Wilson’s party in Mata-
beleland, by suppressing an offer from Lobengula
to surrender, and stealing <£looo which he sent
with the offer. How fit that dog should eat dog,
that robbers should rob robbers, that the blood of
Maxim-murdered Matabele should be avenged on
the shedders of blood at the hands of their own
comrades!
Around the non-publication of a certain
Australian military commander’s report there is
to be woven a pretty little romance. The com-
mandant is noted forhis plain-speaking and truth-
fulness. The report in question fairly bristles
with truths. One of these “truths” seriously
affected an officer high in the service—an officer
with a very pretty and charming wife. She had
very many friends, but none more steadfast than
the Premier. “ And that was how Bill Adams
won the Battle of Waterloo.” That is one version
of the affair.


Miscellaneous.
A FREE GIFT !
Notice to our Country and Inter-
colonial Customers,
'W’O matter if you live in town, country, or another
. colony, if you have a photo, of yourself or any dear
friend, and you want an Enlargement of it, send it to us.
We will make you from it a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
ENLARGEMENT on the Best Ground Opal, size 12 x 10
inches, which, when properly mounted, is suitable for a
frame 21 x 18 inches, and pack it carefully, and pay foi
it through the new parcels post right to your very
door, for 10s. 6d. The usual price for this same
tiling in Sydney is Three Pounds Three Shillings
(t>3 35.). We are doing this as an advertisement,
and while it lasts it is a chance of a lifetime. Under-
stand, there is no condition of framing or otherwise. All
you have to do is to send your Photo, and your Name and
Address, and your 10s. 6d., and you will quickly get youi
picture, which we guarantee will charm you.
Now, every man who has looked through a camera, no
matter if he be the greenest amateur, knows perfectly
well that this cannot be done for the money in the ordi-
nary way of business. Query—Then why do it? Answer
—We want to put out a limited number of our enlarge-
ments each year as an advertisement.
Or if you have a Photo., and you want more of it, send
it to us; we will copy it and send you Six Enamelled
‘Cabinets and your own Photo, for 6s. 6d., or 12 ditto ditto
for 10s., post paid.
When in Sydney, if you will sit to us for one dozen of
■our Highly-finished Cabinet Portraits at 10s. per dozen,
we will present you with a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
PORTRAIT ENLARGEMENT of yourself on the BEST
•GROUND OPAL, FREE OF CHARGE.
A GUARANTEE.
It is well known in the Photographic Profession through
the whole of Australasia, and by every man in Sydney,
that we have the Largest Photographic Studios, Offices,
and Works, and employ by far the largest number of
artists and workmen in the Southern Hemisphere. This,
we think, is a sufficient guarantee that we will send out
none but the very best production possible in each case, as
we are thoroughly alive to the fact that each Picture
speaks for or against us. We cannot afford to be careless.
CAUTION.—As we have no agents in the country, don’t
give your Photo to anyone, but send it straight to us ; it
is safe then. Note the Address:-THE CROWN
BROMIDE ENLARGEMENT COY., at
THE CROWF STUDIOS,
Corner Georye & Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
LIGHT.
STRONG.
CHEAP.
- i:ii»
SUNBEAM" O.K,
Price, with Cushion Tyres
~ with Pneumatic Tyres
£l4 0 0
17 10 0
Complete, with detachable brake, mud-guards and foot-
rests ; ball-bearings to all parts, including bead and
pedals; unbreakable spokes; fluished in best black enamel,
with parts nickel-plated; strong hammock saddle, spanner!
oil-can and tool-bag.
Further particulars (post free) from
EDGE & EDGE,
248 Pitt Street, SVt>M,V.
“GRATEFUL RESULTS”
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, of Altoona,
Pennsylvania, U. S. A.,
Restored to Health, by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“Last Spring, I was grievously afflicted
with biliousness and liver complaint. My
mouth was in a terrible condition every
morning, my tongue thickly coated, my
breath was offensive, and my bowels were
•Vl
%
n
m
*4*
1
1
always out of order; nor did the many rem-
edies recommended do me any good, until I
tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, when my improve-
ment began almost from the first dose.
This unlooked-for, but grateful, result, was
accomplished by only two and a half bottles
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.” «
Ayer’s IX Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair.
Made by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co.,Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A.
' HEWMAFS ATELIER
FOE
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
314: GEOEGE-STBEET,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
3ALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
J, Hubert IXTewmazL
(Late of Oxford-street), Proprietor.
„
„, '
... s
jf\HEUMAIiS/'V
LL s>ince
I Ctj^CO^OlL
Business Announcements.
NESTLES” FOOD
fob
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia o
the Practice of Medicine” ;
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When_ the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Pro, Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS,-Yol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.’’—Prof. Senatoe.
On SCROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
ttiQ'Use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.” —Prof.
Biech-Hieschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S.
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOE
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats. Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs, Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
I lis lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I nave hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
JI Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
g
sS
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS
For TRAVELLERS
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickl)
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
i-i-i fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
i — Lancet, April 4, 1891.
1 "MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
IfA vaiids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”,
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Mattel Milk will keep indeEnitely in any eli mate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:—
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Mailed Milk Co., 39, Snow Hill, Loudon, K.C.
Bodalla Cheese.
GATJTIOIT.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODALLA
Bears the Registered Brand of the Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent;
JOHN SHEAKWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
IALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Business Announcement.
SQUATTER’S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
Post Free, 6s. 6d.
m
Size.
R. A Gr. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 Georye StSydney.
Post yoiir Razor to be Ground and Set —enclose 1/3.
Best lor tlie Wearied Soles by trying
E L Xj I S* S
(Registered; SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladies, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS ,
UNRE (
GISTERED
IMITATORS
yy
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical boolmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES FOR CASH,
Post Free to any Post-town in Australia. CATALOGUES
POST FREE.
No matter how far back in the interior you may reside,
we post the boots DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR. ELLIS S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on speciullv-
constructed lusts, giving the fool an ample ti ad
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY—they are a “ going con-
cern ” from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw" or blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items; Gent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid, 17s fid ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid ;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s fid ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s fid; French Calf Cossacks, 14s fid; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s fid; Primes!. French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s fid, Tops for ditto, 12s fid ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s fid (worth £3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s fid; Three-quarter ditto, 26s fid; Half ditto,
23s fid; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
fid ; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s fid ; Ladies’ and Children’s
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies’ Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto E.S., Ifisfid. Instock—
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d: Nice Glace Oxford Shoe, 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep. Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s fid ;
Glace, Button, 11s fid.
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT.
For a FEW WEEKS ONLY.
A Guinea’s Worth
FOB—
13b. JBd.
Cut this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments and Remittance of 135.,
6d., when you will have
mailed to you (post free)
n pair of those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow or_
wide (
toes.
/Oils’
/COUPON
,/Ou/NEa
0A L MORAL
SAME STYLE IN ELASTIC SIDES, IF PREFERRED.
When sending, mention this paper
THOUSANDS OP TESTIMONIALS.
“I am pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me; make me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.”
“ The two pairs of boots which we had from you have
been constantly worn for months. You appear to use
prime leather. The wear has been phenomenal.
“GEORGE EARNGEY, Roads Office, Deniliquin.”
“ I am highly pleased with your boots, and you have
fitted me to a T.
“H. R. COTTAR, Tarella, Wilcannia.”
“The boots (both pairs) fit splendidly, and give general
satisfaction.
“GEO. QUEST, Jun., The Rock, Boggabri."
“ The boots are giving every satisfaction ; will forward
you all my orders in future. We are unable to produce
such a boot in Queensland.
“ E. BERRY, Electric Telegraphs, Cooktown, Q.”
“ The boots you made me are an excellent fit. As you
know, my right leg is shorter than the left. I can now
(thanks to your cleverness) walk with comfort and secu-
rity. I recommend you to all my friends and acquain-
tances. MARTIN BATES, Mounted Constable,
“ Gilgunnia, Nymagee.”
“ I can strongly recommend your workmanship and fit
as superior to anything I have ever had.
“THOMAS PEARCE, Solicitor, Hillston,N.S.W.”
“ The boots came to hand, are well made and fit well.
I send herewith order for four more pairs.
“Miss F. A. ROWLING, Court House, Balranald, N.S.W.*’
Special Notice 1 Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
£lOO One Hundred Pounds! £!QO
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. £3; sth, do. £2; 40 prizes, value £1 each;
10 do. at 15s. each; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Remember I—ALL PARCELS POST FREE.
T- E.
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Sheep up Delatite (Vic.) way Is. a head.
“We employ men only.” Notice in a
Melb. window.
Biggest English probate last year. Walker,
contractor, <£2,874,150.
“No man realises what a safeguard to his
wife’s virtue is a new dress.” — Gautier.
Melbournian: “To my personal know-
ledge, wives and children of village settlers starve
in the city.”
At latest, the British Navy was 300
lieutenants, 200 engineers, and 10,000 men short
of its proper strength.
Editor Maughan, of Brisbane Chkonicle,
tells his friends in confidence that his paper will
appear as a daily next January.
THE MODERN POLYTHEISM.
Men, in each simple modern creed,
Need one god’s name, and thereby
They pray for aid ; but, then, they need
A score or two to swear by
Zep.
Editor Bulletin, —If the Governments of
Victoria and Tasmania want to clear the snakes
from the islands in Bass Straits, just let them turn
loose a few dozen pigs there. In such confined
areas the swine will soon do the work. —M.G.
A well-known parson is bringing his little
son up in the way which he should go, and
mamma most assiduously reads the Bible to the
little chap every day. Result —the enfant terrible
came to her the other day and said : “ Oh,
mummy, feel my side, I’m sure I’m going to have
a wife.”
The aboriginal rough-rider of Strathmore
Station, Q., lately mounted a filly renowned as a
bucker. Davey put “the M'Guiness” on her,
and at the first buck he was literally shot out of
his boots, they being left in the stirrup-irons and
Davey in a China apple-tree. Next.
“ The majority of prisoners are convicted
for what are practically venial offences. For
instance, in Vic., in 1891, there were men and
women imprisoned for having committed, in the
aggregate, 11,000 offences, of which 8000 com-
prised—being idle and disorderly, drunkenness,
insulting behaviour, petty larceny, obscene
language, and vagrancy : all sins of the weak,
foolish, and unfortunate.” — Age.
The Bulletin’s last Xmas number, which
consisted mainly of bones and ghosts, seems to
have been really cheerful reading compared to
some English publications at the same festive
season. One joyous tale in a British periodical
concerned a marriage:—“A young man, on the
eve of his marriage, discovers that his father died
o I a terrible disease in its most malignant form,
and that he had the poison in his veins. He tells
his betrothed the ghastly secret at a Christmas
party, and she then confides to him that her
father is a prisoner in Broadmoor, behaving mur-
dered her mother during an attack of hereditary
insanity, and that two of her sisters murdered
their infants and then committed suicide, and
that sort of thing runs in the family. Under those
circumstances they agree to get married at once,
and on the bridal night they both take poison,
and are found dead in the morning side by side.”
Thus a Queensland correspondent:—
Dear Bulletin, —Are there any means of forcing a
contractor for public works to account for the so-called
medical fund, which is a sum of money deducted by the
contractor from the employes wages, with their know-
ledge, but without their consent? So far, the practice is
to deduct from each any sura the contractor
thinks fit, not exceeding Is. per week, or portion of a
week. With this he provides indifferent medical attend-
ance, in all serious cases sending the sick or injured to
the local hospital upon a subscriber’s ticket, where they
are promptly labelled “Pauper.” The balance of the
fund the contractor deals with as he pleases. The
amount collected yearly has been, and still is, very large ;
on some contracts where the deduction is a shilling
a week per the total runs into thousands.
On one Queensland railway the deduction amounted to
£3O per week, or a round total of not less than £5OOO at
the completion of the contract. This contractor took out
a policy with an assurance co. to protect himself against
his employes in the event of any claims being made good
against him for negligence or carelessness in carrying out
the works. And the premium on that policy is supposed
to have been paid out of the so-called Medical Fund. I
do not know if the same system prevails in the other pro-
vinces, but if so the total amount filched from the
labourers must be very large indeed. Surely the Govt,
which inserts a special clause in the contract empowering
the contractor to deduct this money, should also provide
for a public audit of the account at the completion of the
contract and prior to the final payments being made to
the contractor.— Free Lance.
Dear Bulletin, —The chief fault found by
N.S.W. bush State-school teachers with recent
retrenchment is its unequal incidence. The
teacher in the backblocks has been docked more
in proportion to his difficulties, expenses, and dis-
comforts than the more favoured ones near towns.
Most schools in the bush are provisional, half-
time, or house to-house. Before Ist July last, the
salaries for provisional teachers were—lst class,
.£96 ; 2nd class, <£B4; 3rd class, <£72. These were
reduced to Ist class, <£9l; 2nd class, <£80; 3rd
class -£6B. The old rate for house-to-house schools
was £5 per child on the average attendance, up
to a maximum of -£lOO per annum. Now the rate
is .£4 15s. on the average attendance up to a
maximum of £95. Half-time schools were paid,
Bth class, .£156; 9th class, <£l32; 10th class,
<£loB per annum; and now, Bth class,
.£136; 9th class, .£113; 10th class, ,£9l.
In provisional and house-to-house schools the
salaries vary according to the average attendance.
Half-time schools are liable to reduction if the
average falls below a specified number for a quar-
ter. Is it not unfair that a bush teacher, with a
salary of <£ls6, should have =£2o knocked off his
screw, while a teacher in charge of a 6th class
school in a town, getting a salary of .£216, gets
docked but .£ll, and a teacher holding the same
classification in a cosy locality is only retrenched
<£9 in .£180? The only complaint I have heard
from teachers is that the Government did not deal
fairly all round, and that the weaker portion of
the service came in for the severest retrenchment,
which undoubtedly it did.—Yours, A Teacher.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
WE BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
maintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
DEPARTMENTS s
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ribbons, Laces, Ladies Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, timbrel las. Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing Drapery, Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro-plate, Men's Ready-made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept!
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited.
We issue a little book on “ Shopping by Post,” which is
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
Sund your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
and will be as well served as if in town to select.
Finney, Isle s & Co.,
BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, Q.,
And 64 Basinghall Street, London, E.C.
THE BEST
I BLOOD
Purifier
AND TONIC
For Old
And Young.
TO
QUICKEN
THE
Appetite,
Remove that
Tired Feeling,
AND
Make the Weak
STRONG
USE
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
I Vi - *' )■ ■
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Cures others, will cure you
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name — Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is
prominent on the wrapper, and is blown
in the glass of each of our bottles.
SARSAPARILLA
AYER’S
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR* COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
BUTTER-SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
u/tPlo&sSirTPcO
Lancet.
St. Joim’s Works. Loudon. W.C.
Colernane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous
Ooleinane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
Coleinane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest
Tenders.
Newellton, North Queensland.
To Mine Owners, Smelters, Capi-
talists and others.
THE undersigned have received instructions
from the Directors of the SILVER
VALLEY SILVER MINING AND SMELT-
ING SYNDICATE to invite
Sealed Tenders
for the WHOLE OF THEIR PROPERTY AT
NEWELLTON, consisting of 4 Mineral Leases
(comprising 20 acres); Machine Area ; Building
Sheds, Tools and Stores; also Machinery as
follows ;
1 30-ton Water jacket furnace
1 No. 4£ Bakers’ Blower
1 6-H.P. Vertical Engine
14-H.P. Vertical Engine
1 Stone breaker 9x5
1 Multitubular Boiler 14' x3'6" with connections
complete
1 Small Blakes’ Pump; Tanks, &c.
Further particulars of the whole and Stock
sheets of Stores, estimated at <£l2o, may be seen
on application to J. H. Rogers, Esq., Messrs.
Alfred Shaw, Limited, Townsville; or to John
Cairns, Herbertou.
Tenders will be received up to 12 noon, Satur-
day, 7th April. The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
The machinery is all in perfect working order.
Attention is drawn to the fact that during the
last campaign of the furnace combined charges of
copper and silver ores resulted most successfully,
and large quantities of each are known to exist in
the syndicate’s properties and in the immediate
neighbourhood.
The inability of the Directors to call up further
capital to more fully develope the mines since the
late financial disasters is the sole reason for this
step being taken.
JOHN CAIRNS,
Auctioneer and Commission Agent,
Grace-st,, Herberton, N.Q.
Nervousness Cured!
SEND to HERR RASSMUSSEN, 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or any of his Inter-
colonial Branches, for his Eree and Useful Pamphlet, entitled
“A, Thousand Reasons”
Why Sufferers should immediately take
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alf aline Vitality Pills!
Which are Registered and Purely Herbal. Cured many Thousands.
A GUARANTEED CURE for the most obstinate NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF MEMORY
DESPONDENCY, MELANCHOLIA, NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA and IRRITABILITY, WEAK-
NESS, and all Affections peculiar to the NERVES, SPINE and BRAIN. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
IHIITICTIDZBIEID TPUOTJSYLdM'XD TESTIMOINIAILS I
Blood Diseases Cured!
ALFALINE LOCK CURE PILLS.
Registered. Purely Herbal. Cured over 100,000.
A GUARANTEED CURE for all kinds of BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES
FROM ANY CAUSE, OLD-STANDING BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES, PIMPLEb,
ECZEMA, and other unhappy and unpleasant symptoms of the Skin and Blood. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His w’onderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
‘‘Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussan ia a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona tides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.” —S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical!
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, andl
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New-
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland." — Cooktown.
Courier, Q.
WHAT IS BETTER THAN
■£1,000,000 i
HEALTH!
You are always Poor
without Health, even if you are
Wealthy.
■ •
s->
iiijSHnisaij.
iiiv
How did over 100,000 Sufferers:
get Restored to
HEALTH t
By taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S;
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press is unanimous in praising up ITerr
Rassmussen and his wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies,
and his name has become a much-cherished and lasting
household word in every city, village and camp in the colonies.
The wonderful success of Herr the ever-
increasing patronage extended to his celebrated, Herbal
Remedies by all classes of society, is bona-fide evidence that
they are effective and genuine
HERR R ASSM ESSEX.
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 G-E ORGrE STREET, SYDWEY.
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered
ALFALINE REMEDIES!
Which have CURED OYER One Hundred Thousand Sufferers for Blood and Nerve Diseases;
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of the Academie Pansienne des Inventeurs, France.
Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the 1.U.J.F.0.
Honourably Mentioned in “Centennial History of New South Wales for Herbal Discoveries.
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney, Bronze Medal, Melbourne, for h.s Herbal Remedies.
Author of “ The iSTatuiral Doctor.”
HERBAL REMEDIES:
Altai I lie Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Ordinary course, 23/6, posted; Special Powerful
Double Course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3'-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/6.
AUaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to eradicate Dandruff. Produces quickly
luxuriant hair. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Complexion. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes,
posted, 1,6 and 26.
Alfaline Lock Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Blood. Purely Herbal.
Ordinary course, posted, 23/6; special powerful course,
43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
Alfaliue Internal Pile Powders.
Excellent for internal use. Posted, 3/- and 6/-
Alfallue External Pile Powders.
Cure both Blind and Bleeding Piles. Posted, 3/- & 6/-
Alfalinc Leucorrhoea Powders.,
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6, - posted.
Porous Plasters.
Believe pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Stale and Female Syrinxes, Suspenders, and
other Specialties, kept in stock.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
IMPORTANT.—Make Cheques and Post Office Orders Payable to Hans Rassmussen.
whether you send to his Head Office, or to any of his Branches. Register Letters containing Money. All
Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover. All Correspondence strictly Confidential.
HERE RASSMUSSEN’S
Chief Laboratory and Head Depot for all the Colonies;
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERCOLONIAL BRAN CH ES:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT: 150 Bourkb Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT: 160 Qdken Street, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT : 154 Rundlk Street, ADELAIDE.
NEW ZEALAND HEAD DEPOT 91 Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON.
The autopsy on the prisoner West, who
hurled himself from an upper Pentridge cell to
escape the torture of a flogging, and who was in
gaol for a bestial offence, disclosed the fact that
his brain was badly diseased. As are the brains
of all that class of offenders, probably. Yet, lay
on the lash, ye State Degrees—beg pardon,
Judges.
Greville’s “Year-Book of Australia,” for
1894, is better than its predecessors, if possible;
abridged, but concentrated, and remaining the
most compendious Australian book of __ reference.
Special articles deal with agriculture, dairy-farm-
ing, wine and fruit-growing, meat-supply and the
wool-trade; and there is the usual review of the
year’s work in trade, politics and art.
Yaillant’s bomb was a God-send to plut-
ocrats. They hail with delight the new lease of
power it has given them. Thus do Anarchists
play into the hands of humanity’s oppressors. If
not the allies, bomb-throwers are the tools of
plutocracy. Eorce begets force, whether from
above or below. Eorce may have its mission, but
not until a majority has expressed its mandate
at the polls, and that mandate has been overridden
by force. Then revolution, not retail murder, is
in order. —Ex.
Dear Bulletin, Under the signature
“X.L.,” I wrote'a paragraph in your columns
about a statement by Bishop Webber, of Queens-
land, and it is clerically stigmatised as an anony-
mous lie. The date was made somewhat too
recent, which does not affect the essence. Ex-
plicitly, then, I read a very lengthy letter, in the
London Guardian, signed with the name of this
Bishop, urging young English clergymen to visit
his diocese, for periods of five years. He showed
that this need not interfere with their preferment
in England, and further that it would not be
requisite for them to be intimately associated with
the Queensland people, in any way. Under the
title of “Brisbane Diocese,” I published a brief
article in Melbourne Imperial, to the same effect
as my “X.L.” paragraph.—Yours, Herbert
Palmer.
A little while back there was held in Mel-
bourne a sale of “ Art Furniture ” which had once
belonged to a prominent land-boomer. He had
settled it upon his wife, and the sale was held_ in
her name. The very auctioneer’s catalogue which
is before us as we write, must have cost as much
to print as would produce a small volume of
poems. Items from the list of articles which used
to adorn the “Reception Room Cabinet
with elaborate carvings, mirrors, alcoves” (the
catalogue describes this piece of furniture as being
exceptionally beautiful and artistic), “magnificent
upright grand piano, by Schwechten —double
oblique trichord, overstrung,” &c., &c., “ three
suites window drapings, in finest silk tapestry,
bordered with olive plush, very beautiful and
costly ” (Damn the expense !), “ costly Majolica
urn on pedestal,” “magnificent real Satsuma
Japanese vase,” “ pair very fine Japanese
bronze vases,” another “ magnificent real
Satsuma vase,” a “pair very large Satsuma
vases,” a “ suite of Majolica vases,” “ magnificent
real Dresden china ewer,” “magnificent console
glass, with ottoman, in finest olive plush,” “ pair
Japanese china vases,” “2 blue Venetian vases,”
“costly real Satsuma Japanese vase;” once
more, “large Majolica vase,” “ large Japanese
bronze coin,” “ pair finest bronze bas-reliefs —very
costly” (hang the cost!), “magnificent cabinet
organ,” “extra-finest quality Persian carpet.”
The dining-room contained more vases —all of
them costly—and extra-finest quality expensive
furniture, odd chunks of verlu, original oil-paint-
ings by German artists described severally as of
great breadth and power, small but choice,
one of the finest examples of this great
artist, another grand example of the great-
est of German marine painters, &c. More
vases, more carved cabinets, more splendid ebon
and gold upright pianofortes, more Persian
carpets, Brussels carpets, Axminster carpets, and
promiscuous parvenu magnificence in the other
rooms. Also, in the yard, a phaeton, pair of
ponies, and hack —in all, 523 lots. There was
scarcely one article of local production in the cata-
logue. Everything was German except the
ponies, a cow, some roosters and an Aylesbury
drake.
The successful removal of Piles of the
most stubborn description is being. effected by
Sharp’s new “Cannalin” treatment, large quan-
tities of which are being forwarded to sufferers
throughout the colonies. It is obtainable, with
advice, from 257 George-street, Sydney.
Flower of western rhetoric : “ The ground
between Longreach and station is so bare
and destitute of vegetation that you could chase a
flea the whole distance and never lose sight of
him.”


WHAji
Cupipl
The new mount albion silver
MINING AND SMELTING CO., LTD.
(In Liquidation.)
Tenders are Invited
tmd will be received up to 12 noon, SATURDAY,
7th APRIL, for the purchase of the whole of this
Company’s property situate at Montalbion (N.Q.).
The property offered is as follows
Smelting Machinery,
1 60-ton capacity water-jacket furnace; 1 30-ton
ditto; 1 15-ton ditto; 1 tram-elevator; platform
scales ; “ Hope ” stonebreaker, 15" x 7"; 1 30-h.p.
Robey engine; 3 roasting furnaces; 3 baker’s
blowers; 1 Manchester pump; 1 Tangye do ; 1
Blake do (together throwing about 20,000 gals,
per hour); 3000 ft. assorted W.I. piping; tanks of
6000 gals, capacity; 2 Multitubular boilers,
14' x s'; and all appliances complete and in
thorough order.
Concentrating Machinery.
2 30ft. Linkenbach patent Buddies with 2 Spitz-
gastens, &c M 6 Jordan and Cummins patent
jiggers, 2 sets Cornish rolls, 3 elevators, 1 Blake
and Marsdens’ stonebreaker, 7 revolving screens,
sampling tables, &c., &c.
General Machinery,
Spare shafting, piping, belting, firebars, fire-
doors, steel rails (about 3 miles), trucks, bullion
moulds, slag pots, slag trucks, 60ft. architnedean
screw conveyor, Buliivant’s wire tramway com-
plete for 1500 fathoms, spare pulleys, Briquette
machine, cupel furnaces and frames, 2 Avery’s
6 ton weighbridges, 1 Ruston and Proctor’s 12h.p.
portable engine, 6in. centrifugal pump, 2£in.
rotary pump, 1 Bh.p. loco, boiler, donkey feed
pump, Bh.p. winding engine, lOh.p. winding
engine, lOh.p. multi tubular boiler, Blake feed
pump, and 20 tons charcoal and a quantity of
lime and iron and firewood.
Buildings.
Office and dwelling two storeys, 36' x 30';
Kitchen, toolhouse, cartshed, stables, store, and
weighbridge office. Dwelling and office furniture;
smelting shed, 210'x 110'; concentrating shed,
172 ft. x 60ft.; laboratory and shed, 93ft. x 50ft.
Bathrooms, blacksmith’s shops, &c. Engine,
mine, and blacksmiths’ sheds erected at all the
mines.
The movable tools are estimated at, at least,
£1000; the stores at £lOOO.
There are 1500 tons of payable ore on the sur-
face, and 2000 tons of matte estimated to contain
40 oz. silver per ton.
The mines are exempt from work (or let on
tribute) until 26th April next, and all workings
are in thorough order.
The assaying and analytical plant is complete in
every requisite and material.
This is the most complete plant for smelting and
concentrating silver ores that has ever been placed
on the Australian markets. The machinery is all
good, and the purchaser may commence operations
without a week’s delay. Fullest enquiries as to
probable success are solicited.
An unfortunate entanglement with the banking
institutions during the late financial crisis, at
which time the capital of the Company had been
called up, forced this Company into liquidation,
the outcome of which is that the property must be
realised upon for the benefit of the creditors.
Further particulars of the whole, and stock-
sheets of the stores, &c., may be seen on applica-
tion to J. H. Rogers, Esq., Messrs. Alfred Shaw,
Limited, Townsville, and
J olin. Cairns,
Liquidator, Grace Street,
' HERBERTON, N.Q.
OF YORKWALTZ
By ALICE C. KELLERMANN,
is now the Rage of Sydney,
pl.n ed at Government House by
Needs’ Band.
Price: Two Shillings.
Send Stamps.
W. H. Paling Sc Co., Ltd., 338 George-st., Sydney, or McCarron, Stewart, of 44 Pitt-st., Sydney.
** A lively and tuneful composition, and as the time throughout is good, it will make a ballroom favourite of itself.”— Sydney Bulletin, March 10th.
O, King \ ♦ i
f "W LIVE FOR EVER!
SE3B
Was the salute tendered to King Solomon by his people.
Nevertheless Solomon the Wise died at a comparatively
early age, because he did not know how to care for that
most important organ of the human body, the liver, which
has justly been considered the great centre of life’s
machinery. In it is stored the nutriments absorbed
during digestion, which is gradually given out into the
blood to keep up the vigor of the human organism. When
the Liver ceases to do its work the head is heavy, thoughts
come slowly, the tongue is dirty, mouth tastes foul, appetite
is poor; sleep, is disturbed, bile circulates in the blood,
causing a yellow tinge in the skin and eruptions, fits of
coughing, slimy expectorations, and pains in the right side.
If this condition is not .checked, the consequences will be
serious to the sufferer. The best and never-failing remedy is
Fuss’s
Liver Restorative
Constipation Cure
It is a Certain Remedy for all Disorders of the Liver and Kidneys, Indigestion,
Impaired Appetite, Flatulency, Sour Eructations, and Bilious Headache. It relieves
and cures Piles and Constipation permanently by continued use.
LADIES
will find it an invaluable home remedy, it being an efficacious aperient
of pleasant aromatic taste, neither nauseating nor griping. In its results
against the over indulgence in food or liquor its effects are marvellous. A
few doses prevent sea-sickness.
The Unprecedented Success PUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND
CONSTIPATION CURE has met with has induced the inventor to
offer the refund of the price, 2s. 6d., if the medicine fails to cure or
relieve the ailments he recommends it for.
Sold. Everywhere.
g
CLOTHED WITH AIR!
Ladies’ Cellular Combinations.
A SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS!
Unshrinkable, Easily Washed and Very Durable .
MADE IN
Cotton* Silk & Cotton* Merino* Wool & Silk*
NIGHT - GOWNS, CHEMISES, BODICES, PETTICOATS
CORSETS, DRAWERS, STOCKINGS, etc.
|3P~ PRICE LIST and PAMPHLET and all particulars from
Cellular Clothing Depot,
305 and 307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Hunter Street).
Publications.
G. R. & Co.’s
Few Australian Publications.
Parsons’ (H. G.) Handbook to Western Australia and
its Goldfields .. .. .. i/_; posted, 1/2
De Lissa s (Alfred) Companies’ Work and Mining Law
in N.S.W. and Victoria .. 10/6; posted, 11/-
Qibson, G. H.(“lronbark”), Ironbark Chips and Stock-
whip Cracks, beautifully illustrated. 6/-; posted, 5/3
The Antipodean, new issue, 1894, illus., 1/-; posted, 1/3
Monthly (Book tgircal by ,gost.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361-363 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
g
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom .”
Price, 1/6; poet free.
“ISuslt for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by Q.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed I .Book
of Nature, Guide to
.. • -- Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 60 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Sejant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/., post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, Ac., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, Ac., 1/6.
* The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and _ deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted lor home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 6A.
f * ee - R. BEAR, Central Book Depot
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
CASH
BUYERS OP
Books, Stationery & Artists’ Materials
OAK OBTAIN
GOODS AT WHOLESALE PRICE
THROUGH THE
Central Press Agency, Ltd .
Now Books by every Mail Steamer.
DON’T ODDER
CALENDERS for Next Year until you have seen The
Central Frees Agency’s Series.
Note the Address;
CENTRAJj PRESS AGENCY, Ltd.,
48 AND 50 CASTLBEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite the Hotel Australia).
lar Price Lists and Samples on application. Theatre
Booking Office and Press Bureau.
CHEAP MUSIC.
“ PLAYFELLOWS.’'
This popular Song, by the composer of “After the Ball,’
and 1000 other popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &0., at Sd.
each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
203 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
g
The poor Barmaid having
1 a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, post fret It 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M-bn. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
“ THE BALLET GIRL,’* POST Frbb, 1/6.
Government Notice*.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 20,1894.
fl TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Govkknmbnt Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28.
Bridge, North’s Crossing, near Eatoomba
Construction of Punt for Upper Coldstream,
Clarence River
Erection of Police Quarters, South Grafton (time
extended)
Manufacture within the colony, Supply, &0., of
Ironwork for Sewerage Contracts in progress.
Contract No. 93, Sydney Sewerage.
Purchase of the steamer Enterprise and the plant
formerly used in connection therewith, now
lying at Hay on the Murrumbidgee River
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11.
Bridge, Cooma Creek, Sharpe-street, Cooma
Alterations, &0., Bridge over the Hunter River at
Red bourneberry.
Construction of a Wharf and Approach thereto,
at Seven Oaks, Macleav River.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
The latest big N.S.W. cave is named “the
Slattery cave ” —after the local Minister of Jus-
tice. As might be surmised, it is indeed a colossal
vacancy.
Pall Mall Gazette has been inviting
contributors to send what they consider “ the most
pathetic few lines.” The article grows in Australia
sometimes :
Melbourne, Monday. — Ernest Knox, hanged this
morning, said “ Good bye ” to his mother at 9 o’clock last
night. She is old and grey-haired, and was allowed to
kiss her son through the iron-grating.
The Bulletin acknowledges receipt of
No. 2 of the Australasian edition of the Photo-
grapio Review of Reviews, owned and pub-
lished by Baker and Rouse, the well-known photo-
graphic supply merchants. Mr. Edwin J. Welch
is editor, and has done his duty remarkably well,
the local notes and articles being full of interest.
The photo-engravings are splendidly turned out
by the Electric Photo. Co. The Review is alto-
gether an admirable sixpenn’orth.
Two handsome trophies presented at the
Manly Swimming Club’s carnival last Saturday
were the work of Messrs. Stewart Dawson and
Co., the well-known jewellers, of George-street,
Sydney. One was the 200-yards’ championship
trophy, and consisted of a solid silver shell
mounted on a plush easel, with silver mermaids
represented as swimming underneath. The other
—which was presented by Stewart Dawson and
Co. —consisted of a beautifully-finished staghorn
inkstand. Both were perfect in workmanship, of
the most tasteful design, and in every way worthy
of the firm’s high reputation.
From Sydney dailies. No. Ifrom Sydney
D.T., “Fourteen words for Sixpence ” :
TJ ANDY Man, lost one arm, requires a WIFE who
XJ - understands fowls. Rees, Daily Telegraph.
No. 2, “ regardless of expense,” from S.M.
Herald :
COOK.—Charles Thomas Haine Cook, Brighton, 1810,
son of Colonel Jones, Equerry to George 111. ; a proteg6
of tha Princess Sophia ; his mother was Maid of Honour,
friend, companion, to Queen Caroline; nephew of the
late Countess of Essex. His brother is mentioned in “Men
of the Times ” —superintendent of schools of England,
Ireland, Scotland. Entered His Majesty’s navy, served
5 years’ active service on the coast of Africa, came as first
mate to this colony three times with the late Captain
Geary, B.N. Father of Mrs. John Ferguson, of Castle-
reagh-street.
A dandily got-up volume, just published
by Geo. Robertson & Co., is “ Ironbark Chips and
Stockwhip Cracks,” by G. Herbert Gibson,
(“Ironbark.”). The intents of the book do not
pretend to harmonise with the bushy expressiveness
of the title ; out of 32 items, only 13 exhale any
characteristically Australian emanations. Where-
ever “Ironbark” does swing off, with naturalness,
the free, coarse exaggeration of bush “ pitch,” his
matter goes swimmingly; and, as typical of a
class, has the poetical merits due to appreciative
observation. Bulletin readers will come across
one or two old friends in fragments that were first
printed in this paper. The book is very pictur-
esquely and humorously illustrated by Percy F. S.
Spence and Alf. Vincent. As a rough-slab hut of
pioneer poesy (so to speak) “ IronbarkChips”should
sell well among Australians.
*
It is now just four years since the Smith
Premier typewriter was put on the market, and
already there are 35,000 instruments in use. This
is about the best possible proof of its excellence.
It is durable, simple of construction, rapid in its
movement, produces first-class work, and is pos-
sessed of many other advantages. It can do
almost everything, in fact, except drink, and
when this defect is overcome, and it is a genial
companion as well as a typewriter, it will be about
perfect. Fisher and Lingham, of 3 Victoria
Arcade, Sydney, are local agents.
Ernest Knox, the burglar who was inter-
rupted while ransacking a Williamstown pawn-
shop and who shot the pawnbroker’s son in the
scrimmage, was duly hanged at Melbourne last
Monday. His case was hopeless from the first.
The Patterson Government, a few days ago,
reprieved the brute who shot a man for trying to
prevent him beating his mother, and even reduced
the customary life sentence to 15 years; but for
the criminal who shoots a man for interrupting
him when he is stealing Property there is no
shadow of hope whatever. Property, in the
Pattersonian code, is a lot more important than
anybody’s mother. Knox, by the way, committed
Sacrilege as well as murder. The pawnshop is the
temple of Property, and Knox slew the son of the
high priest.
The facts of that quarrel between N.S.W.
Premier Dibbs and Commandant Hutton seem
now clear enough. The latter seems inclined to
set up Gov. Duff as a sort of rival to the Premier.
Now, His Ex. is titular Commander-in-Chief. He
is also “Queen Victoria’s ” representative. George
of Cambridge, who is Oornmander-in-Chief in Eng-
land, is merely the permanent head of a branch
of the War Office, and Queen Victoria would not
allow him to make direct official communications
to her even if he were fool enough to attempt it.
If she did so she would soon be taught better.
Now, this is precisely what Gov. Duff has allowed
Commandant Hutton (the real N.S.W. Com-
mander-in-Chief) to do; and the Governor, who has
had years of experience in the Commons, and has
also been in office, ought to know better. He knows
that Admiral Smith, who commands the British
squadron in these seas, sends all his official reports
to the Admiralty direct, and would refuse under
any circumstances to acknowledge him as his
superior officer. As for Commandant Hutton,
who has never held a command before, he can
only be excused for his folly in sending his report
direct to the Governor on the ground that he is
utterly ignorant of the conditions on which he
holds his position as a servant of the people of
N.S.W., though that excuse can hardly be valid
when it is remembered that he has held staff
appointments which must have made him ac-
quainted with the usual official practice.
Wheat is selling at one spot in the Mallee
(Vie.) at a maximum of Is. 9d. a bushel.
Mr, George Colquhoun (of Allen and Allen)
has been appointed N.S.W. Crown Solicitor. The
choice is an excellent one. A first-class lawyer,
and an honest, determined and methodical man
are combined in Mr. Colquhoun.
The ceremony of setting the keystone of
the magnificent Sydney building of the Mutual
Life Insurance Company of New York was per-
formed on March 14 by the N.S.W. Premier in
presence of a large crowd of spectators. The new
structure stands at the corner of Pitt-street and
Martin-place, directly opposite the General Post
Office, and will cost which is a pretty
solid guarantee of the Company’s good faith.
The Mutual Life claims to be the foremost life
insurance company in the world. Its assets at
the end of 1893 were its annual in-
come was .£8,500,000, and the surplus of assets
available for bonus distribution, after fully pro-
viding for liabilities, was £3,675,000. And the
whole of this business has been built up in the last
fifty years ! At the conclusion of the ceremony
a large number of the most notable men in
Sydney sat down to a luncheon given by Major
Z. O. Rennie, the Company’s Australian represen-
tative, in honour of the event. The toasts of
“The Queen,’’ “The President of the United
States,” “The Parliament of New South Wales,”
“The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New
York,” “The Architect and Contractors,” “Our
American Kindred,’’and “The Chairman” (Major
Rennie), were amongst those honoured. Those
present included no less than four Ministers of the
Crown (the Premier, the Colonial Treasurer, the
Minister for Lands, and the Minister for Public
Instruction), the Speaker of the Legislative As-
sembly, the Mayor of Sydney, Messrs. Pilcher,
Pigott, and Greville, Ms.L.C., Mr. M'Millan,
M.P., Colonel Bell, U.S. Consul, and many
other prominent men. The speakers congratu-
lated Major Rennie on the enterprise shown by
his company in erecting such a building, and
wished that the business done in Australia might
justify and reward the confidence shown in our
future. Major Rennie, in returning thanks for
this expression of good opinion, said it had been
his privilege to experience nothing but goodwill
since he set foot in Australia 'seven years ago.
He wished Australians to understand that when
they are offered a contract with the Mutual Life
of New York, they are offered a partnership in
the wealthiest, the largest, and most honourable
association of individuals that exists in this world
—a contract guaranteed by a company that has
progressed and prospered continuously for half a
century under every financial and social condition,
and whose' reputation for honesty and fair dealing
has never been questioned. (Cheers.)


Theft—The unearned increment.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice*
Coleinane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
M isical Instruments.
XMAS BOXESI
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin,”
Given Away 11 (only 30,000)
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and you will receive
In return a 4s. Song Waltz or I'iauo Piece,
IIMiHI .
HOW All D & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Keiueinhcr this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Elutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Acoordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
Griins & irliflea,
GOLD and SILVEII WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
6d. per week 6d
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK!
At 2d. and 3d. each,— Lists Eree.
Half-Ton of MOUTH OItGA KS>
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Hd. each.
STRINGS* and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT EITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants «ts Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
OS’ Write for Lis.ts, and beware of worthless
IMITATIONS of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, &c.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
B3T Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers.
XENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
1 and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Liable,”
Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
ell ” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
ire” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each —Of all Mnsic-
ille’rs, or from the Publishers, W. p ANTON & Co.,
oudon, aud 203 Swanstom SmKicr, MELBOURNE.
White Spotless Arms
Soft White Hands
Shapely nails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
hair are produced by the outiCLir3. RghtiG"
di6S when all others and the best skin doctors
fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
ire absolutely pure, and may be used on the younges
infant. They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive. They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
CUTICURA
Remedies afford instant relief in the most
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless mils.
“ All about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair ” 64 pages, ?oo Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Gieat Skin Cure,
e OC .* Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, st. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap, Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medu
cated toilet soap and the only preventive of inflammation and clogging 0/ the pores, the cause of
most complexionaldisfigurations. Price, 25c.
g
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
TEARS DYEING
TOR THE LADIES.
w. G- & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOIIK STKEET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Woman’s Salvation.
Tieatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the yearsyou’velived. Write. Prof. HER-
MANN, French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELB.
QUEENSLAND SADDLERY.
K u
LL in want of the above should call on or send for
price-list to
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, be is in a position to give the best value in th ;
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
supplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
EAF" ESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
anil Perfect Hearing Restored.
Comfortable to wear and invisible. Illustrated
book of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps.
A. M. HAST, 49 ELIZABETH ST., MELB.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY SAUCE IN THE WOULD,
Simply Delicious will!
STEAKS, CHOPS, COLD MEAT, FISH,
If SOUP AND ENTREES,
m Makes Cold Meat a Luxury .
THE PLAINEST VIANDS PALATABLE.
Blends admirably with all Gravies.
WITH SOUP CEOLIEtIVII WG.
The most delicious Sauce in the World.
Sold Retail by all Grocers, &o.
Wholesale-TILLOCK & CO.. KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors —GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS, ENGLAND.
Agree* with the most
delicate persons.
zr
sr
m
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD
POWDER
Makes the Richest Custards
in a few minutes |
WITHOUT EO&S. i
The HOUSEWIFE’S BEST FBIEND.
Saves trouble, and is far more I
economical than Eggs.
MAKES A VARIETY OF DAINTY DISHES.
Sold toy all Grocers, Stores, &c.
DELICIOUS
JELLIES
In a few minutes by using
(Mall's Jelly Squares.
The Squares are complete in themselves,
and are sold in the following Flavours: -
LEMON, ORANGE, RASPBERRY.
STRAWBERRY, VANILLA, PINEAPPLE,
BLACK CURRANT and RED CURRANT.
WONDERFULLY HANDY.
EJS.S3CL.Y BKJLXHE2.
One trial will ensure their always
being kept in the house.
Sold in Boxes containing Half-Pints, Pints,
and Quarts, of all Grocers and stores.
WHOLESALE TILLOGK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors:—
aOODAI.I., Bi4CHHOUSK & CO., Leeds,
Prospectus.
MONSTER
miEiill
Distribution.
£59,401 Worth of Freehold Property.
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue :
59,401 Shares of £1 Each.
NO LIABILITY.
Committee of Management, Queensland:
O. W. MID SON, Esq., M.L.A.
J. T. ANNKAR. Esq., MX.A.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P.
Committee in N.S.W.:
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P., Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., Ex Mayor of Kempsey.
ROB!. HAYES, Esq., Kempsey.
Bankers:
The Commercial Bank of S\ dney.
Solicitors:
Messrs. THYNNE & McCARTNEY.
118 PRIZES as under:
Ist Prize, 1606 acres, valued at £11,64:5;
2nd prize, £6724; 3rd prize, £6OOO ; 4th prize, £5313 ;
sth prize, £3OOO ; 6th prize, £2720; 8 prizes from £2560
to £1650 ; 13 prizes from £BB5 to £5O, 23 prizes of £45
each ; 49 prizes of £26 10s. each ; 19 prizes of £2O each.
List Closes 31st March,
All moneys received are banked to credit of the Com-
mittee without deduction.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of Properties. Application for
SHARES must be made to the Secretaiy, BARTON
L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street, BRISBANE; or
“Secretary,” care of C. SMITH, No. 24 Imperial Arcade,
SYDNEY; or “Secretary,” care of J. RICHARDSON,
VV. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom all particulars may be
obtained. Enclose two addressed envelopes with un-
attached stamps ; add exchange if cheque sent. Register
letters.
fIIPEUT!
Business Announcements.
g
g
g
LADIES’
HATS.
MADE
TO
ORDER.
ANV WIDTH
brim.
GBNT.’S TBXIAI.
With Puggaree, 2/-extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
GHAS. ANDERSON,
TAILOR,
30 & 32 Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
Best Materials. IVrfeet Fitting.
moderate prices.
Patterns, Prices & Measurement Forms
OK APPLICATION.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We alwsvs have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber's poles, razor'hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brashes, perfumery, shaving
snap and cfssntial oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair.
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blanks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &o.
JtNHdtUK Oil. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can he obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG «Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBEUS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 Jt 682 George Street. Sydney.
"AT OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
[M cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. our
TUESDAY,
According to Captain Cook’s journal, we
glean that the Maoris called Australia “Ulima?
roa.” It has been suggested that Australia was
originally the barren central plateau of an immense
and fertile continent covering a great part of what
is now the Indian and South Pacific oceans.
Dear Bulletin, —In your recent issue you
spoke of grubs, 4ft. long, in Gippslahd. There
seems to be something wrong there* , Probably the
beast really meant is the big Gippsland earth*
worm (Megascolides Australis) described by Prof,
Baldwin Spencer, of Melb. University. I have
handled, alive, and dissected, dead, specimens of
this worm over six feet long. When dead the
worm emits a hideous odour resembling creosote,
and is generally nasty.—Yours truly, S.G.
An itinerant wag lately went into a Ben-
demeer district (N.S.W.) pub. for a stimulant.
Observing the local policeman absorbed in
“euchre,’’ he remarked aloud to mine host: “ I
passed old Fosbery (Inspector-General) on the,
Moonbis.” X 971 dropped his hand, decamped,
and covered the distance between the pub. and
the lock-up (200 yards) in seven seconds—the
fastest time on record. This will be interesting
to card-players, as proving that a man can be
euchred even while holding the two bovvers and
joker in his hand.
All the rage iu Paris. Bend 13 penny
stamps for latest Parisian preventative. National
Drug Go., Russell-st., Melbourne.
The sensational Ardlamont (Scotland)
“ murder case,” which ended in the trial of Mon-
son for the alleged shooting of Lieutenant Ham-
brough, and his acquittal, had an atmosphere of
wealth about it which has since been dissipated,
llambrough was a full-blown military officer whose
life was insured for <£20,000, and Monson was said to
be iu treaty for the purchase of the Ard lament estate
for J 580.000. Also the parties were all more or less
“ well-connected,”, and there was an aristocratic
flavour about everything which was suggestive of
the wicked peer in the London Journal. iTet
the Hambrough family, it now appears, consisted
only of the deceased and a shabby, beery old
father, who lived On a small annuity in obscure
watering-places; and Monson was a drinky ad-
venturer whose sole asset at the time of the tragedy,
was a pawn-ticket relating to an advance of 10s.
on a battered silver watch; If Hambrough shot
himself he probably did it to get away from his
only surviving parent, and if Monson shot him he
most likely did it in order to get a free ride as far
as Edinburgh on Ins way back to civilisation. If
he hadn’t been taken there by the state to be tried
lie would probably have, had to walk, and his boots
wouldn’t have held out for the journey.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food* entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and IDs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser &Co
Dunedin; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Eros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
A DOUBLE: WRECK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have felt sorry for Humphreys ever since, in a
moment of confidence, he told me his tale.
Of course it was a woman-trouble without a
u i • • ■ . n,
woman would be insipid as saltless soup. She
knew he was married, but yet once he was near
her, and his trembling:, passion-laden voice greeted
her ears, and those dark, sentimental eyes of his
*“•?»7•«r
into forgetfulness, and she was his, did he choose,
body and soul. Why he hadn’t married her when
he could, for they were friends of many years’
standing, is a mystery. Why he had married the
woman who was his wife is a still greater mystery.
It did not take him many months to discover that
he had made the grand mistake of his life, and
then the trouble began.
At first she used merely to nod to him as they
passed one another. Then after months there came
an evening when they stopped and spoke again.
It wasn’t his fault altogether that it happened,
every thing seemed to continue to tempt him. It
was dusk. He held her hand again in his own,
and as he gazed into her eyes he saw they were
filled frith tears. There was no one near and he
kissed her.
From this time matters progressed swiftly—
bolted, in fact-and the social air of the township
was becoming sultry. A smash was inevitable,
so everyone thought, but scandal was robbed of a
heavy meal just when it was most hungry. It
happened thus. To-day, Humphreys was worth
nothing, hoped for nothing, sought for nothing
but an equivalent return of this passion that was
eating out his very life. To-morrow ! and he was
worth over £2o,ooo—the first prize in a racing-
sweep. He accepted the stroke of good fortune
in a manner most annoying to his many acquain-
tances. He didn’t get drunk, he didn’t “ shout ”
for a single soul, and, worse still, he didn’t hand
over a single dime to the local charities, and was
accordingly anathematised by the clergy.
No, he didn’t part with a penny of it. One
idea now monopolised his mind.
He had been smoking on his verandah the
whole day. Occasionally his wife came out and
spoke to him. He never heard her, and she
turned away with a sad smile overclouding her
face. At length evening came, and as soon as the
gloaming had passed away and the blackness of
night set in, he took his hat and went out. Ter
minutes later he was with “her,” straining her
to bis heart the while his hot, fierce kisses dashed
upon her lips, neck and forehead.
“Listen!” he said, “we have suffered enough,
vou and I, we will suffer no more. If I take you
away froin here now, with me, each old hag and
every ribald tongue in the country about will be
bandying with your name, beside she would suffer
too keenly perhaps, and I’ll save her all I can.
To-morrow week I leave for England; she goes
with me. In four months-after I have provided
for her and found her a home with some of my
people—l shall be back in Sydney, and there, my
darling, my love, my life, there you must meet
me ! Then, my heart’s idol, you and I together
will sip happiness to the full in some clime far
distant from this, and dream away our lives
beneath the summer of a lasting love ! ”
She endeavoured to remonstrate with him, for
she was pure of mind, great as was this passion
that was upon her. But he—he only strained her
the closer to him, and his lips smothered the
denial to his pleading that rose to hers. Ten
minutes later they parted and she had vowed to
do all he had asked.
It was a bright, warm day in November that
found Humphreys back in Sydney again. It was
just 12 o’clock, and he was not to meet her till
four in the afternoon, so he went for a leisurely
stroll around the streets. At least, his walk was
leisurely, but his heart was galloping. Suddenly
he started and stopped. Yes! it was she ! clad,
just as she had promised to meet him, in the way
he liked best, with a spotlessly white dress, and
little round sailor hat. In a moment he was at
her side.
“ Helen! ”
She turned sharply, and when she saw him
her cheeks blanched as white as the dress she
wore, and she put her hand gently within his.
“ Forgive me, Jack, if you can, for it is all over
between us. I thought it over after you had gone,
and decided as I thought best for yon. I didn’t
fear to keep my oath to you, Jack, but I knew if
I did that it would be your ruin. I didn’t tell
you what I intended doing in my letter, for I
knew that to do so would only make it the harder
for us both. Forgive me, Jack, for I got married
a week ago.”
He looked at her for a moment, and then
repeated, with a low moan of anguish : “Married!
Great God, and I am a widower !”
At this moment a bearded man came out from a
shop close to where they were standing, and, ad-
vancing to. them, laid his hand tenderly on her
arm. “ Now, beauty, I’m at your service again !”
The words were as poison to Humphreys. He
turned and fled.
Yes, it was quite true. Humphreys’ wife had
died in the first week of her arrival in London,
and he had refrained from recording the fact in
his letters to Australia, thinking it wiser to break
the news to her with his own lips.
Is she happy? No; how can she be? To her
husband she is a dutiful wife. But that molten
stream of passion and longing still rages within
her bosom, never lessening, but consuming her day
by day.
Humphreys did not suicide. I met him a day
or two ago, and, in reply to a suggestion of mine
that he should travel, ho shook his head : “No; I
prefer to live on here, waiting and hoping.”
“ To what end ?” I asked.
“ Waiting and hoping for him to die.”
M. B.B.
“Ido so hate being thought of only as
Carlyle’s wife.”—Herself.
Cabled that Mr. James Huddart is being
publicly eulogised for his enterprise re the estab-
lishment of a new steam service between Canada
and England, Mr. Huddart is not very big, but
he is as game a man as ever stood under a hat, and
never knows what it is to be beaten. In point of
pluck he can only be compared to a tiger-cat.
There are the materials for a very beautiful
row in the address of Moderator MTnnes to
N.S.W. Presbyterian Assembly. He has denied
the verbal inspiration of the Bible, and Rev.
Dill-Macky has armed himself and has charged
the windmill of scientific truth. “Satan,” he says,
“is always striving to conquer men”; and he
implies that Old Nick has conquered the Mode-
rator.
Sydney Domain-Midnight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, hapless girl, your haggard wares
So ghastly in the gleaming light—
Your painted cheeks, your burning eyes,
Have little charms for me to-night.
My blood is hot, my brain awhirl,
I know the truth of what you tell—
I feel the shame a man must feel,
And guess your mournful fate too well.
With failing voice and racking cough,
Doomed and devoted as thou art,
Poor victim, go thy joyless way,
And of the gloom become a part.
Who next? A limping, shuffling waif—
With “ Have you got a sixpence, boss
I was not always on the cadge,
And only want to get_ a doss.
I got smashed up, not long ago,
You see my shoulder is not right.
Somehow, I think it never will
With camping out so much at night.
Thanks—Ah, you don’t knowwhat it means ;
Well, then, God send you never may.”
And down the gloom between the trees
This crippled nightbird limped away.
Who art thou? moaning in thy sleep
Stretched on a seat beneath a lamp.
Thy hands are clasped beneath thine head,
Thy silvered hair with dew is damp,
Thy frozen face, so pinched and grey,
Of hunger and privation speaks.
And then, maybe, it is not dew
But tears that sparkle on thy cheeks.
Full fifty years of storm and stress
Have been thy lot and this thy gain—
A vagrant in these workless days
Camned out in storm and wind and rain.
Who crouches near a flickering gleam
Half dozing o’er some evening rag ?
He asks the time. “ What, only one !
God ! How these midnight moments drag !”
Another yonder sneaks about,
Whose hunger will not let him sleep,
To find what serves him for a meal
He fossicks on the garbage-heap.
And listen from the gloom below
Whose heart-appalling accents tell
That helpless children in the night
Weep in this Imager-smitten hell.
I hate you with undying hate,
Queen city of the Sunny South,
Because about your parks and streets
There moaneth many a hungry mouth
That calleth on a callous Christ
And asketh all in vain for bread,
And where the lights from mansions gleam
Must seek the rocks to find a bed.
Your mourning garb may soon be worn
When mjdnight flames dispel the dark,
For men are crying, “ Bread or 8100d —
We’ll starve no longer in the Park.”
Sydney, 10th Feb., 1894,
CURLEW
Glaring notice on a country pub. : “ 2th's
beer soled here.” By the way, Tooth’s beer has
been brewed in N.S.W. for over 60 years.
Thus a hot-headed pastoralisfc who grazes
some 10,000 cattle in the Burke district (Q.), rt
stock-tax imposed by the M'Tlwraithian Govern-
ment :
My station makes £2OOO per annum, of which £5OO goes
for tucker and stores —(he balance for rent and taxes
imposed by a Queen-street Government to foster Southern
industries. Government imposes the tax but cannot
collect it, and if we band together I am prepared to con-
tribute £250, find horses for and feed 30 men to resist the
demands of the Queen-street Government.
Now, if a Labour man had said this!
The advfcs. on the backs of M.L, stamps
have served to bowl out several well-planned
swindles. The latest was that of a person who
was doing a lucrative business in manufacturing
p.n.’s, said to have been signed by a person
deceased, who left a large estate. In each case
deceased’s signature was written across the stamp,
and the cocoa-advt. on the back of the stamp gave
the scheme away. At the date of the document
there had been an infant’s food advt., or some-
thing like that, on the stamp, and the cocoa-
announcement didn’t appear till long afterwards.
This is where the forger’s troubles always come
in, for the advts. are not dated, and, infixing up a
back-dated document, it is almost impossible to
find out whether the stamp of that period had a
cheap, slop clothing notice on it or a puff re some-
body’s blucher boots.
The fine Roman hand of the Camphell-
town Herald editor, in a leading article on the
local dam :
For many years there has been at the southern end of
Campbelltown a filthy, stagnant pond which only a half-
civilized soulless community would for one hour tolerate.
Only that there is no spirit amongst the people, only that
they are a body of arrant cowards, a dozen of (hem would
walk in a body with picks and shovels and let the water
away, . . . But in poor Campbelltown the people are
always comatose. They do not even thaw or wake up
during the summer months. If they recover a little
vitality it is only with a view of having asmoke. Give
the majority of them plenty of tobacco and 1 hey are all
right. They have no ambition beyond the pipe or cigar.
If the people of the township are such miserable cravens
that they will not move, let the farmers take the master
up. . . . Surely out of so large a community they are
not all lazy cowards, and unworthy the stock from which
they sprang ! Let them ask themselves how long their
fathers or grandfathers would, in their day, put up with
such an injustice. . . . Truly the days of bhivalrv are
fast departing and in the place of men we are rearing
brainless, useless, cowardly pigmies, who simply grin while
their rights are being filched from them and who enjoy
being humbugged.
And the band played “Scots wha hae.” But the
sleepers only stirred feebly and said “Dam !”
Hordern Bros., 203-11 Pitt-street (only),
Sydney, are taking advantage of the near approach
of the Easter holidays as a further incentive to
exertion in their costume made-to-order depart-
ment, and they are inundated with orders. Ladies
are particularly requested to quickly leave their
orders for Easter gowns—the work of ah efficient
staff of artistes, and made from a magnificent
stock of new goods just opened, which cannot fail
to please. Gentlemen are specially invited, before
it’s too late, to take advantage of their choice and
extensive stock of tweeds of the very latest pat-
terns, to leave their orders for Easter suits at once
to prevent disappointment. In the able hands of
an experienced and accomplished cutter, stylo and
fit are guaranteed. New goods for the Easter
season will be found in every department at prices
so low as to satisfy the most rigid economist.
Country patrons who do not intend visiting
Sydney during the holidays; can have their wants
supplied by writing to 203-11 Pitt-st., Sydney.*


“Men I Have Smiled With.”
■y^ T ' E STAY at J 3 rntozi’s,
■JM^XiaTCXIO-EJ
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accoynmodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
IF you VISIT Hvisbane, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
,J IIVC IiVC YT C3-Y^^.T^^ , X , .
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The "PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
MOUNT VICTORIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
”7” MOSS VALE.
aOODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
Station) is where we always stay.
MOSS VALE.
QYDNET and MELBOURNE TOURISTS and
O TRAVELLERS find every convenience at JOHN*
SON’S COMMERC lAL HOTEL.
ARMIDALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
Mrs. P. Wade’s
TA TTEBSAL L’S MOTEL.
The Traveller’s HOME in New England.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
Eennessfs Queen's Hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
Acknowledged to be the FIRST HOTEL in
Queensland, and patronised by their Excellencies
the Governors of Queensland (Sir H. Norman),
and of N.S. Wales (Lord Jersey).
Blue Mountain Hotel,
Near TOOWOOMBA.
To Meet the Times, the Prices in this POPULA R
SANATORIUM have been Reduced to 42/- per
Week. FREE use of Buggies and Billiards.
Every Comfort as Usual. Conveyance meets
trains at Harlaxton on receipt of Letter.
E. EVERINGHAM, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW.
THE CLUB HOTEL ,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL in
Queensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
train. Private Suites. George A. Grodsall.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
Miscellaneous.
OST POWER REGAINED
ARD HEALTH RESTORED.
w NO STOMACH DBP&BiNCK
Varicocele
Cured.
Send six Stamps for illustrated treatise on Urethra I.
Treatment. Every Weak, Nervous and Debili-
tated Man should read it. DJI. GEO. WALSH,
131 Collins Street, Melbourne.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—OOMFOETING
COCOA
BEOU’S injection.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
«CRES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS
SOLD in PARIS by
JT. FE RnE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
THE LAST OF SIX; ”
tales of the Austral Tropics,
Says the celebrated author of “ Robbery Under
Arms” In these Tales of the Austral Tropics
J'f 1 '! he found the strange romances which write
Ihetns'elves, often in letters of blood, amid the
ua!f-unkn o wn mysterious regions of tropical Aus-
tuha. That they are not less true than terrible
"Übe it upon myself to affirm.
The writer has turned scene-painter for the
once and limned with strongest lifelike effect the
Uramaof the Waste.”
Kricp, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 12.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Saturday, 31st
March, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ’’Missing Word Competition Coupon.—Ho. 12.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Saturday, March 31st, 1891.
Great Britain is at last waking up to the fact that the wild-eyed Anarchist
is an eminently resident, and steps are being taken to shift him.
When he is shifted, Australia will be almost the only place in the world
where he can manufacture his bomb in peace.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received —no deduction whatever being made., Should there It more than one successful competitor,
the toted amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper.
Bulletin” Series, UNTo. x.
IX THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
m
-OF-
CC A Golden Shanty 97 ;
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“ Bulletin ” Series, KTo. 3.
6G
The Last of Six
' ' % .....
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By EEIEST FAFENO.
99
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewood .
Opinions of TbSie Press :
‘ The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a nar Th«.
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whiles and the natives in these
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who are Z
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”—S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893. ose 1)0 are ton<i of
“ No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc and the secret of this is tw
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcelv anv other
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under notice he has m vnTZi rf
his best work. That they will he widely read is certain. ’’-Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893. S us some of
“ They present with force and vividness, as wed as with the accuracy arising from long contact and keen observation, striking pictures of
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as happen in wild nlaces
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men ‘ The Last of Six ’ a
te!e of cannibalism treachery, and revenge upon the dead which in other hands might he gross and hideous, hut which Mr. Favenc makefof
thnhmg interest. The Haunt of the Jmkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, hut is itself relieved toomtho
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesques of conception, m which Mr. Favenc here and there approaches Poe This
characteristic is especially noticeable m Spirit Led,’ which the great American might have written ‘ A Him wiL . • : i n,s
July 15 e iB93 collBofcioll that shoUid 1,13 widely read . and which forms a worthy addition to jpurely Australian literature. ’—Daily
“ ‘ The Last of Sixand other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney: The Bulletin Newsunner fin i Tw c u 0
graphic sketches.by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore All the stm° f Sh ° rt
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection ” The present issue forms the toin®
Bulletin scries of Australian reminiscences.’’-Australian Star, July 15, 1893. piesont issue forms the third of The
-■■■
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.


MITQSEXXSXiXi’S
—CELEBRATED—
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS—
Fleas, Flies, Bugs, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches,
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer—R. T. BELLSMEY, Chemist.
151 Kino Street, SYDNEY (late Rigney’s).
Tins, 1/-; Boxes, 1/6. On receipt of stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1/9.
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT—
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Sol© M!ax3LXi.racturer
OF THE
CELEBRATED
It,
LION ”
\%
J s
s%i33S3tSt3-irmi
BRAND
Confectionery.
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Box 1034, C.P.O.
Telephone 9T3,
W. MAM MATT & SONS,
i •*
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND —
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sliow Rooms:
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
■WynyardL Square, S"XrZD3XrE!"Xr«
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. ) * ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
{sgF“ Terms— los. 6d. per Day. Walter Sidney (late of Newcastle), Prop. * 5
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige hy
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may he unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
New South Wales Fresh Food & Ice Co.,
LIMITED.
The Y. F. & I. 00. have arrangements concluded for full Supplies of Fish during the. Lenten Season.
The Fresh Food and Ice Co. have exclusive control of the refrigerators on the Union Co.’s steamships Waihora, Mararoa
and Wairarapa, and have arranged with the Union S.S. Go. to run constantly during the Lenten season between New Zealand
Sidney. London with English Fish, is due on 23rd February.
For* Local Supplies we draw largely on the South Coast fishermen, and just now it is estimated fully 100 men are actively
engaged procuring fish for our Company. ■ •
FISH SENT twice a day to any part of the CITY or SUBURBS, or COUNTRY,
§. PAZESON - ■ M aaa S er ’ 25 garbmr'itreet, gyiaey.
AUTUMN, ’94
• Now comes “the winter of our discontent,
made glorious summerby the untiring efforts of
your affable and indefatigable servant, FOY.
Now an unfolding in all the glorious tints of
Autumn
Moreas
Hopsacks
Cheviot Serges
Autumn Tweeds
Undine Cloth
Epingles
Bengalines
Whipcords
Redolent in all that is beautiful, becoming and
bewitching, sensitive to the touch and pleasing the
wearer, and all of which will bear our symbol of
excellent good value.
— at —
MARK FOY’S,
Oxford Street, Sydney.
The BMPIEB HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney.
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES. 1 '
Board, and. Residence at Moderate Claarges.
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders.
|-V
m
WMMi
INCLUSIVE or SEP ABATE TABIEE, AS DESIBED’
Luncheon, A la Carte, from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Talle Jfßote, „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s. , v
KST Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may always w
getting a First-class Meal;
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
