

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
4?
1
B. C3-o WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Syc3.io.oy,
—FOE—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
df
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
<RAci[aJocK>
' K »' s b
o
VILA r\
K, A, Hervcj, Agent, Pltt-Bt., Sydney.
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl of Jersey,
Lord Carixgton, etc.,
3C5 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING and HAND RAGS, etc.
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
23?"’ Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
■VO
o*
2-
tHJ-
-o*l2.
r he
m
The Oxford Hotel, King Street;, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
Duff, K.C.M.G.
'-THE-,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
51 ILK ...
CREAM ..
ICE
IU TTEK
FISH
EASIE ..
POULTRY
PASTRY, Ac. ..
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
I®" The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Fastry, cCc.
IS. PATESON,
Sydney, Ist July, 1893. Manager.
TTcUiQm
Sole .A-seax-tiEs ixi jKTes-w Boutli Wales for Messrs. Clayton sx.xx&. Siiuttlewortii.
n-T . »,-•
—THE—
Oldest Plough-makers
In thk World.
THE BUILDERS
OK THE
First Iron Plough in the World.
We have a reputation for Plough-
making all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
which is not to be equalled by any
of the younger and less experienced
firms.
m m
OOVTWNOR STE rnn.C£ PLOUGH
.. . ' :
-THE- ,
Howard Digging Plough.
The most privet Cultivator
\ t-t made.
To be had in ■> l ' descriptions.
ALL o^nSSES
—OF—
Agricultural Implements
and MA4 EIIXKRV.
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely-extended SHOW-
ROOM-!.
J. & C, Howard, 280 & 2SOj Fltt Street, Sydney.
The Bulluetin
Yol. 14—No. 738. J
[Saturday, April 7, 1894.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsmner.


Medical
-I’OB-
Winter Coughs and JBronchia
BONNINGTON’S
(Registered) IRISH MOSS
WILL CURB
Any kind of a Cough or Cold (recent or chronic),
Influenza, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Tickling of the Throat, Bronchitis,
Incipient Consumption, and all other similar
complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers.
It clears the Throat, removes all huskiness and
causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale; 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
ATKINSON’S
The most refined of all Perfumes.
Sweet as the Pose itself. Imitated the .
world over, but equalled by none.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
is now universally preferred to the j
German kinds. It is more fragrant,
more lasting, and very much more re-
freshing. Use none but Atkinson’s.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION '—Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Rose
and address in full.
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
0
%
PATENT
PILLS.
.
a
*
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, ' disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to he
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No femafe should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
at the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
oe found to work wonders upon the most important
jrgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the'best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beech am ’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Aff< . tions. Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
wid Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and » ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
fs. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
tverywhere.
H.B.—Full directions are given with each box. j
IW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes n> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. 1F YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. ’ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
guurious
\\V
9}
& t
s
a
m
Irv
Wouldnt I like to 6£ m/r
MANFFA CTCTR.ED BY THE
NEW YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO CO.,
Cievei Street, S"K"3CD3XriES"Y‘.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED PEEE BY
Dr. M. FERRT,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS ajjd INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” — Ohas. H. Pibssb,
M.R.C.S., F. 0.5., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH Ai\P t-'IGOR RESTORE!
in Four Weeks by the use of
m
tSSt
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and cmstitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human ft ame.
In cases of 13s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
CU Agents for Australasia-Perry & Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Fitzroy. MELBOURNE
Agents tor N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co„ Pitt-st., Sydney.
I \,A
R?»,on
I X
i .1 ;;
t U’< i 'iP
m
f/: i
!K
7 IM
SOLO
*
r
« EVERYWHERE"! \6
3/6
Medical.
Vs \}h A}\ L J\
UPP
'AH\C CH
ss
sdf
1
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS.
What evei'vone says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE KRUPP GALVANIC BELT,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is
Guaranteed to Absolutely Cure
completely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Bark and Chest,
Lumbago, (Jatdrrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney _ Com-
plaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout. In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy Spermatorrhea ,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation, ■
Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money ami health by procuring and taking Lob-
LESS DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is
acknowledged bv all leading and unprejudiced physicians
to be the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and
Sexual Diseases, and the thousands of teslimomds re-
ceived by the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages
throughout Australasia prove the unquestionable curative
properties of Electricity as applied by the appliance above
referred to. Our confidence in this appliance is
complete, that
We Send the Belt Out on Trial,
and guarantee to give perfect satisfaction. For full par-
ticulars as to terms, &c., send for our large illustrated
treatise, FREE, in which these Belts are fully illustrated,
the action of Electricity on the nervous system explained,
and a lot of useful information on nervous and sexual
diseases given. This treatise also contains facsimile oi
testimonials received from some of our clients who have
tried our Belts. The originals of these testimonials pro-
duced on application. d
|giF" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt anu
Suspensory are from £l. „ „„„
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT CO.,
BOX 647, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Remember-The K.G. Chain Belt is easy to wear, is
ent on approval, and the first cost is the only cosb
Are to be found in the “liight
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILIIY and Ivin
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be s&n
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. _
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Is.; Per POST. Is. 3d
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at Sydney, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin.,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System— one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land; wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the cla’his of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend#
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that' so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushrnan of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushrnan must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official- that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance). Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi.
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical.
K
112 PHILLIP S SYDNEY.
Legally Qaalified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine Sc Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
"NERVOUS 4 SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine-s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vin6s will, on receipt of J2X !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Vin&s with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Ohiarge 3ST othing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Yin6s for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injuriousingredients.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications i
Dr. JJE3CICBLL VIKTES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRTTfVO
KTo Cure, KTo Pay.
-55*
DO
THIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which w
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stag,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUI
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives astea
Hoothiny- current that can be felt by the wearer throu
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a writt
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cc
jou. if it does not we will promptly return the fi
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. - Before purchasing, we prefer that youshou
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC Ef
and price-list (post free), which will convince the me
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
victoria Chambers. 63 Elizabf.tij Street, SYDNE
BEFORE 1
taking. I
AFTER
21 DAYS.
NERVITA
CURES IN 21 DAYS
DEBILITY.
In all stages, Despondency,
Bashfulness, &c., &c., how-
n ever caused, never returns.
iIIOUSANDShave proved that the only REMEDY
to effect a quick permanent cure is NERVITA, the
days’ cme, forwarded by mail in plain package to
’■'lV address. Price, 21 SHILLINGS. Why pay more?
NERVITA REMEDY AGENCY, Box 399, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BEEP IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tome and Strengthening-. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY I’IJUE.
Proprietors; ELLIOTT BROS,, Limited. BRISBANE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed, his New and Oentrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOWS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
f YOUHT& TWCDESIW
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :~Frequent headaches;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIE,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
{Two doors from Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
“<P<? (Sydney go {fee palace” §otel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIK, Proprietor.
TARIFF,
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30a
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4a
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
I>KS€IHI*TIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
jvith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Medical.
LEPROSY,
Scrofula, Eczema, Erysipelas, Rheumatism, Smallpox,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Worms, Typhoid, and
other Fevers, Measles, Itch, Gout, Ulcers, Stone in
Bladder, Fils, Sciatica, Cancers, Blotches, Lumbago,
Scurvy, Piles, Gravel, Indigestion, Kidney and Liver Com-
plaints, Foul Sores, Debility, Pimples, Freckles, Grog
Blossoms, Palsy, Saint Vitus’s Dance, Chilblains, Chapped
Hands, Ringworm, Scaldhead, Scales, Barbers’ Rash,
and all other
Blood and Skin Diseases
Guaranteed to be speedily eradicated, and permanently
cured by Dr. KOCH’S non-mercurial, non-poisonous,
infallible remedy. It destroys the germs of every Disease.
Asiatics havespread LEPROSY all over Australia, therefore
no skin eruption should be neglected. Dr. KOCH’S
treatment is the only reliable, sure cure for this loathsome
disease. Dr. KOCH’S wonderful blood purifier, and his
marvellous skin-cleansing solution, are only obtainable
DIRECT from us. Unobservable packages, with full
directions, 10/6, 21/-, 42/-, 84/-, sent anywhere in N.S.W.,
and to any Australasian port, carriage free, on receipt of
P.O. Orders. Amazing testimonials. Names of persons
cured never divulged. Communications strictly con-
fidential.
Orange Butter Co.,
Market Buildings, George-si., Sydney.
Sole Australasian Agents.
L adi e s.
We Post to any address in the Colonies a pair of our
handsome, engraved Bar Brooches for stamps, 2/6. Our
Aurauian Gold Langtry Fob Chain for Ladies, stamps
2/9 ; equal to real Gold.
Faulkner & Co., 385 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Shipping.
pN GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract witli
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everj 7 assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. —Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
AUSTRALIAN GOLDFIELDS.
COOLGARDIE and THE MURCHISON.
The Adelaide Steamship Company’s Fine
Steamers leave Sydney WEEKLY. Best accom-
modation and Lowest Fares. Apply
G. S. YUILL & Co.,
17 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PKOMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
&SEEES
29
YORK STREET
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
Assisted by Dr. EMSLIE, M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
Legally Qualified and Registered l>y the Medical Board of N.S.W. and N.Z.
DEBILITY.
Nervous, weak, overworked, ambitionless men and women, with aching heads, weak stomachs and
leaden footsteps, who are billions, spiritless, exhausted, debilitated, pale, easily tired, have bad tasting
mouths on rising, inability for exertion, foul breath, furred or yellow tongues, whose sleep is un-
refreshing or broken by dreams, who brood over their troubles real or imaginary, and to whom the
world looks black and dreary, will find in our treatment a boon, a nerve food, nerve tonic and nerve
alterative, that cannot be found elsewhere, and which will rapidly and pleasantly restore them to
HEALTH, STRENGTH & VIGOR.
All who suffer from brain and spine affections, fits, paralysis, sleeplessness (an early symptom of
paralysis), varicocele, consumption, bronchitis, asthma, liver and heart derangements, gout, rheumatism,
sciatica, indigestion, poor blood, eruptions on the face, kidney and bladder troubles, womb affections'
and all chronic diseases of men and women, no matter from whatever causes arising, should CON-
SULT Dr. SPEER, as, in consequence of
HARD TIMES,
HE HAS REDUCED HIS FEES EXACTLY One-Half.
£3T Those CONTEMPLATING MARRIAGE, or who suspect taint in their blood, or weakness,
should write to Dr. SPEER for Advice and Treatment. He will cure all local and constitutional
complaints, and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Consultations Free. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
PILLS.
AMERICAN “VIGOR” PILLS, for Debility,
, Lost Vitality, Weakness, etc., 55., or 21s. for
live boxes. Post free.
“FEMALE” PILLS, for Irregularities and
Obstructions from whatever cause, 10s. and
20s.


Petty’s Family Hotel, Sydney,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Is UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Large, well-ventilated Bedrooms.
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladies’ Sc Gentlemen's Dining Sc Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table ci’Hdte as preferred, at very
. Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
■ A
Business Announcements.
Manufacture
ha
1 -OF — 1
MERCER^
PRIDDY’S
HATS
lit once
PBOOIiAIM
tub
WIAN.
r IIHEY give a oreditab’e appearance, which is
JL BETTEK than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
too not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
"W orld-renownodl!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Pifty Years.
Note the Addresses!—
433 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s,,
And 678 GEORGE STREET (Briokfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
Bank of Van Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION,
grand Tottery
Conducted by GEO. ADAMS (“Tattersall’s”) as Sole Agent.
300,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 372 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
■A-PPly Early.
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
T limited.
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Bnginea, Boilers, Gras Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &>c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. %
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
• Plum ’
I*iPi
THE
‘Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend this brand to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to its merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price -f in £ le R^ 2o1 '. jo strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2is.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
Fire Mis Us at Lowest Hates .
sd
Übad Offices ;
—9s—
Street,
Sydney.
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL,
£150,000
rv>
y>
V
<v
<>
&
Directors:
Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
{Chairman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.0.,
JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
Invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
S T
ATIONERS
HALL
(C. E. FULLER & CO.)
0 o.
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d.
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, Rood quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good quality, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.
OFFICE APRON FILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each.
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographie Pens, 2s. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from 3£d., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, Moro. Leather, from 6d.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONERS’ HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
385 GEORGE-SX., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms,
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 yearg in the Establishment.)
Banking.
—THE—
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,600,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
r|IHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £300,000
RESERVE LIABILITY ~ .. 373,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. .. 23,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Th e Hank of North Queensland
(LIMITED). '
Capital Paid up .. £200,000.
Reserve Liability .. 250,000.
Head Office - Brisbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Medical.
Teeth.— a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages : -
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes : “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
V practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours : from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeto Beeto
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &e.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF «t CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
riLLOCIC. & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON &"CO., Sydney
& CO.,
MANUFACTURERS, v v
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY, YOUNG. N.S.W.
WHY WALK WHEN YOU CAM RIDE
Our NEW DEERFOOT BUGGY ia Substantial. Neat,
Durable, Graceful and Comfortable, and the
Price, complete with SHAFTS, STORM APRON
WRENCH, etc.
Without Hood .. £l4 O O
With Hood .. £l7 10 O
We pack these Rubies in cases without any extra
charge.
HOLDS TWO PASSENGERS
Comfortably, and RUNS as SMOOTH as
A TALE OF LOVE.
Price is VW £Uglxt.
m
AVE DEFY COMPETITION. Write us for particular
The Bod}' .is 54inches long 1 , 26 inches wide, and
7 inches deep; Width of Track, 5 feet 2 inches.
James Martin & Go.
nta rim arid
Clarence KtrcrtK,
Sydney.
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Go.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
'WEED SUITS
We are the Originators of the famous SCOTCH and WEST OF ENGLAND T\
TO MEASURE at 45/- TROUSERS, 12/6.
BOUND CORKSCREW SUITS, 60- .. .. TROUSERS, 16/6
The FINEST QUALITY in SERGES from 60/- .. TROUSERS, 16,'-
Country Customers please WRITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SELF MEASUREMENT FORMS.
LONDON A MELBOURNE TAILORING CO., SI Erskine Street.
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission ly / ost as a Newspaper.
Vol. 14—No. 738.
SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 1894.
Price, 6d.
'z. A fv/*
r-
GOVERNOR GOURMANDSTON.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political , Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Neicspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed .
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under *
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E. C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg , South Africa.
Also: - It. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
laud and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription bepre *
paid. There trill be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
&e'^xxllelx^L.
SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 1894.
The Future of Coolgardie.
It is one of the many facts which go to show
that there is something rotten in the ways of
civilisation that even the richest mine on the
richest goldfield generally loses more for-
tunes than it makes. Consequently, the
discovery of a great reefing field, which is
eminently suited for the profitable “invest-
ment of capital,” is, in most cases, more of a
curse than a blessing. Just now West Aus-
tralia possesses the newest and, apparently,
the richest quartz-field in Australia, and in
Bayley’s Reward it owns what is, for the
time at least, unquestionably the richest
mine in this continent. And already the
possibility is in sight that the country at
large may lose out of that phenomenal mine
a great deal more than it profits. It is one
of the peculiarities of finance that it blasts
both the giver and the receiver—that the
boom falls alike on the just and on the un-
just, and when it is over it is generally
difficult to tell where the gold is gone, for
all seem to be ruined alike. Up to the
present date the great Bayley’s Reward mine
has had a career of uninterrupted prosperity.
Therefore, the stock has been inflated to
480,000 shares, and the future history of the
mine will probably be made up of perilous
financial “rigs,” and dizzy falls, and the
freezing out of weak shareholders. The com-
munity gains less out of the richest mine on
earth than it loses in the frantic gambling to
which the existence of a rich mine gives rise,
and when the bottom falls out of the game
at last there is nothing left but universal
loss.
• • •
Coolgardie will almost certainly be, by-
and-bye, something very much like what
Broken Hill is to-day. How much Broken
Hill has cost New South Wales it is almost
impossible to estimate. It created a huge,
drunken silver boom to begin with, in the
course of which tens, if not hundreds, of
thousands were spent in looking for silver in
every possible and impossible place through-
out this continent. Many more thousands
were fooled away in purchasing the in-
terests of the “first robbers,” and then,
as a rule, these went away, and sunk
their profits in other enterprises, and
were robbed in their turn. Hundreds
of people abandoned all productive work on
the strength of the boom, and settled down
to be brokers and jobbers, and to lie in wait,
like bloated spiders, in dreary offices for
customers who were not enough to go round
at any time, and who grew more and more
rare as the days went on. What little the
public made in speculation from time to
time all went ultimately in brokers’ com-
mission, just as the gambler’s money goes,
sooner or later, into the hotelkeeper’s pocket
for champagne. Then the commissions went
largely in champagne and cigars, and when
the boom burst at last it left almost all the
speculators ruined, and the brokers remained
to moulder and grow seedy in their dingy
offices, or on the pavement when unable to
pay office rent, and waited hungrily for
another boom. Some of the most brilliant
swindlers of that gaudy epoch are now
Domain loafers prowling round abjectly after
crusts ; some are dead ; some are in gaol ; a
few have gone mad ; but if there is one man
of them all who made and kept anything out
of the hundreds of thousands that were lost
in all the dead and gone mines of the boom,
The Bulletin is unable to recall his name
or his address.
* # •
A few of the mines, however, survived,
and the dismal township of Broken Hill
grew up on the strength of them. The great
Proprietary mins—one of the three or four
richest silver mines on earth—was, and still
is, the main support of Broken Hill. It
was floated for a vast sum, and many of the
original holders straightway went and lost
their share of the proceeds in the boom. For
a time half the brokers and jobbers of N.S.
Wales lived on the Proprietary like flies on a
carcase. It supported dozens of land-
boomers in the early days of Broken Hill—
men who, but for its existence, might have
devoted themselves to reproductive labour
and added something to the national wealth.
It lost many fortunes and made very
few in market operations, and it caused
a disastrous strike and a vast expense
in maintaining “ law’n’order,” and it, more
than anything else, broke the Commercial
Bank of S.A. and beggared its shareholders.
And now Broken Hill is a dreary, stone-
broke, lead-poisoned town, poor and miser-
able almost beyond conception ; and de-
spite the enormous wealth which the Pro-
prietary has produced it is easier to find
a hundred men whom that great mine has
ruined than one whom it has enriched. The
process of finance consumes everything
sooner or later. It is like the 5 per cent,
charged by the totalisator, which is levied
on the money every time it goes through
the machine, and as the public coin is in-
vested and reinvested and invested over
again the machine swallows it all up in the
end, and leaves everybody in the lurch.
* * *
Mount Morgan is doing for Central
Queensland what Broken Hill has done
for New South Wales. Because the pre-
liminary boom was less violent the ruin
has been more gradual, but it is none
the less sure. One of the early pro-
prietors of the golden mount is in himself
an epitome of the fortunes of Mount
Morgan. Through it he became something
approaching a millionaire. He entered Par-
liament, where he was surrounded and
milked by innumerable parasites. He
dabbled persistently in the shares of the
great mine and his financial dealings swal-
lowed up his huge fortune. He acquired a
fatal and profound faith in gold - mines
generally, and took a hand in many strange,
wild-cat speculations. And now he has gone
back, in his old age, to his shop in a
third-rate coastal town, with all his golden
dream dissipated and his brilliant fortune
scattered to the four winds. Yet he is
only one of many whom Mount Morgan has
swallowed up. It was responsible, in a
measure, for the trouble of the Queensland
National Bank, and, to some extent, for that
of the Royal, and how many people the
Q.N. Bank’s fall ruined no one can calculate.
Mount Morgan for years corrupted the
Queensland Courts and Queensland politics ;
and the few people who have made fortunes
out of it have mostly gone—like the great
Brokenhillionaires of New South Wales—to
be absentee landlords in England, while
those whom it has ruined remain behind.
* # *
A great gold or silver mine is now a gam-
bling-machine pure and simple. It supports
a certain number of miners at the lowest
wages and the longest hours and the hardest
grind that circumstances will allow—the
great mines of Australia have probably done
as much to break down wages and crush
trades-unionism as any other single agency in
the country. It also supports, generally on
a much more lavish scale, a crowd of brokers,
jobbers, guinea-pig directors, dealers, sham
experts, and assorted hangers-on, who are as
unproductive and as utterly useless as an
equal number of burglars or tramps. It
ultimately makes a few huge fortunes, and
the owners thereof invest their money in
Australia and generally proceed to spend the
interest in England, and thus constitute
themselves and their descendants an ever-
increasing burden upon the country which
enriched them. And when at last the bottom
falls out of the enterprise it seldom leaves
the country any richer—and generally
leaves it much poorer. Such a field as
Wyalong—if it proves reasonably permanent
—where the ground is cut up into a mul-
titude of small claims each supporting a
small party of diggers, where there are no
big leases, and no pompous companies floated
on the London market in half-a-million
shares, and no share-jobbing, and no British
directorate with six impecunious lords on
the board, and no market fluctuations, will
do more permanent good to Australia than
Broken Hill and Mount Morgan both com-
bined. The curse of Foreign Capital has
eaten into the mining industry as it has into
everything else in Australia, and it, com-
bined with the curse of the middleman and
the market jobber, has latterly made joint-
stock mining enterprise a burden to the
country.
A Peripatetic Picture-Gallery.
Mr. “Claud H. Simson,” of Adelaide—pre-
sumably an artist—has formulated a scheme for
an “Australian Artists’ Association,” which
only needs to be printed as a circular in brown
ink on pink paper to prove its utter imprac-
ticability. Federation, is in the air—why not
in Art ? So Mr. Simson suggests that Austra-
lian Governments should form themselves into
a syndicate to advance the interests of his par-
ticular art, by instituting “National” exhi-
bitions, carting year by year from province to
province all the huge, unsaleable canvases, all
the curious, furious landscapes, all the out-of-
drawing figures with queer anatomical bulges,
which make terrible the gloom of nine out of
ten Australian studios.
* # #
Mr. Simson’s scheme is solely designed to raise
art—not to raise the remuneration of the artist.
The mean, contemptible, bread-and-cheese view
of the subject has no place in his perspec-
tive. But, all the same, “ the Australian
Governments” are to “be asked to defray the
carriage expenses” of pictures in their tour
round Australia in search of a market. Now,
Art needs elevating in order to be elevating.
It doesn’t follow that communities which have
already spent many thousands in building art
galleries and furnishing them with portraits of
Parkes should undertake further elevation,
and act as agent, without fee and with expenses,
between the miscellaneous artist and his
patrons. True, Mr. Simson doesn’t mention
sales in this connection, but his whole circular
breathes of sales, smells of sales, shrieks of
sales.
* * •
Nor is his superstructure any better than his
foundation. The leading art societies of Aus-
tralia (including Tasmania and Montague
Rh vs-Jones) are to “form a united, fraternal
body.” Where will they get the unity and
fraternity? Artists are as jealous as cats, as
united as old maids, and as fraternal as a Bris-
bane women’s rights meeting—which is cats
plus old maids. If the existing societies were
not sundered by petty jealousies, they could
establish now the “ annual exhibition of Aus-
tralian works of art ” which Mr. Simson pro-
poses to hold in each province successively. To
this exhibition the provinces are each to send
not more than 50 pictures and 25 sculptures,
the provincial society thereby incurring the
enmity of the 51st artist and the 21st sculptor,
and all his friends, and all his mates in mis-
fortune, and all their friends. The very best
selection is to be sent, “ regardless of sales and
what not,” as if any other artist but Mr.
Simson would disregard “ sales and what not ”
—“what not” meaning 35,417-and-sixteen-
noughts whims, squabbles, feuds and scruples.
• # #
The artist paints to live, and art is as sordid
a profession as duck-farming. It is indeed
ingeniously argued that the unselfishness of
artists is constantly shown in their readiness to
part with the incomparable masterpieces which
they have created. They would wish to keep
these embodiments of beauty to pray over in
private, that they may be inspired to still
higher flights of art. But no ! They recognise
that their talents are entrusted to them for the
benefit of humanity, that they are instruments
under Providence for the world’s regeneration,
and they sell their pictures with a pang and a
shudder, to be flaunted in the lewd eye of the
ignorant public. No one not an artist can pos-
sibly comprehend how it revolts them to sell
their pictures. But it is their duty, and they
do it nobly. They invariably demand the
highest price which they can screw out of the
gross, uncomprehending Philistine, conscious
that all the gold in the world would kick the
beam when put into the scale with the delicate
marvels of genius. And yet silly people persist
in thinking that every picture is a pot-boiler,
that every artist is a Poo-Bah eager to be “in-
sulted,” and that all the fine talk about art and
its destinies is just so much fee-faw-fum !
* • •
From one point of view, it is lucky that in
Mr. Simson’s art-utopia there are to be no
“sales and what not,” since a sale in practice
means a commission, and some N.S.W. artists
have already objected to paying commission on
sales effected at their own little exhibitions.
Would they be more accommodating, and would
the artists of other provinces be more accom-
modating, at the grand, gigantic, pan-Austra-
lian peepshow ? Yet if there are no “ sales and
what not,” and the Governments only pay
carriage, what is to pay for frames, insurance,
and so on ? The artists won’t, for they are too
poor, and the better artists they are the poorer
they generally are, since the duffers are leagued
against them by the knowledge that if merit is
recognised demerit must cease to prosper. Mr.
Simson’s conception of a “ Premier Council,”
to be a supreme Australian art-authority, whose
decisions no artist would respect unless it suited
him ; of a glorious shower of bronze medals
descending on deserving artists, while the un-
deserving heathen would rage furiously and
refuse to pay for the medals ; of a monthly art-
magazine which couldn’t possibly make a living,
and all his other unworkable conceptions may
be consigned in a lump to oblivion.
• * «
Mr. Simson probably means well; but he
certainly doesn’t know. Australia is a large
country with a small population, and cannot
copy with advantage the methods of small
countries with large populations. There is no
working basis here for a Salon or an Academy,
When fche authority of the existing provincial
art ? ocieties 18 generally accepted when their
f Und ? ; generally flourishing, and when their
membership is numerous enough and self-
sacrificing F enough to extinguish cliques
an( j factions, then it will be time to>
unite them in the interests of national art.
Amalgamation now means only the conversion
of half-a-dozen little comparative failures into*
one huge, superlative failure. Australian art
jumbles the sesthetic and the practical, the;
Meal aspect and the ca&)> aspect, just as Claud.
jf j unj hled wjth Simson. At present the-
simson half has an overwhelming preponder-
f nc< V Wh ®n the Claud half is top dog, the;
band rnay pay U P for tlie A^Btialian art/
millennium. \ \
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trial by Parliamentary Committee.
The retrenching Patterson G.overnirient_Jia§v_
paid a large, unstated sum of money as com-
pensation to one Gedge, formerly station-master-
at Prahran (Melb.). Oddly enough, this,
romantic incident was contemporaneous with*
an announcement that the Speight v. Syme-,
case was about to recommence. The dark,,
mysterious enrichment of Gedge by a sym-
pathetic Premier is indeed an official romance..
Seven years ago an express train overtook,
another train on the line between Prahran and;
Windsor, and a most expensive calamity re-
sulted. A first enquiry into the origin of the'
“ Windsor accident ” was made by a coroner’s;
jury, which presumably unbiassed committee;
found that the responsibility for the passing of,
an express train over a stretch of line that,
wasn’t “ clear,” rested upon the master of the;
Prahran station. The smash had occurred!
through a blunder made at a certain signal-*
box—a blunder always possible under the*
arrangements then existing—and poor Gedge:
got the chief blame. Also, the coroner’s jury
“ expressed great surprise that the Prahrain
station should have been in such a state of.
disorganisation,” and that officers elsewhere;
had “neglected to see that the rules and regiu-
lations of the service were carried out.”’
Gedge, by this finding, had ignored certain)
regulations, or the disorganised Prahran station
in general had ignored them, because inspectors;
didn’t insist on their fulfilment. Later on„
the Railway Department held an enquiry.,
Gedge was censured and dismissed. It is said!
on his behalf that he had protested against,
some “dangerous alterations” before the;
accident occurred—that he had foreseen the
possibility of a collision and done his best,
to have the weakness remedied. Yet the
evidence on this point was not satis;-
factory to Commissioner Speight and the
Railway Board. Gedge received his conge.
Either the Board condemned an innocent
man, or Gedge had been at least guilty
of as much neglect as should disentitle him to
sympathy. Now, after this long lapse of time,
Speight’s system and Speight’s lieutenants are
discovered to have been in fault, and Gedge
pops up as a martyr. The discovery was made
by a Parliamentary Committee, at the instiga-
tion of Taylor, M.L.A., best known as the
presiding genius of the Missing Mace Board.
Taylor applied for a committee. It was.
composed of five members Taylor, Yale,
Murray, Dixon and Harris, the two latter
being representatives of Prahran and the ad-
joining suburb, where Gedge’s friends are;
numerous. Three formed a quorum, so, seeing
that Vale and Murray represent distant,
country constituencies, it may be presumed!
that the other three gentlemen had most to
do with the matter. They started to enquire
into Gedge’s case soon after Speight’s case
against the Age had been opened, and then-
exoneration of Gedge was published whilst the
other case was proceeding. Gedge, as afore-
said, bursts forth again as the recipient of
secret compensation just when the Speight case
re-opens. Had the whole business been intended
to advance the interests of the Age in the Mel-
bourne Law Courts it could not have been more
opportunely put through. This coincidental
circumstance, however, in no way touches the
justice, or otherwise, of the verdict given by
the parliamentary committee. Those five legis-
lators, of whom three formed a quorum,
have stated, in indirect terms, that Speight’s
Railway Dept, did wilfully (or through gross
ignorance of railway matters) condemn an
innocent man to punishment for the Windsor
accident of seven years ago. There must be no.
mistake about this committee’s finding. It
overrules the opinion of a jury, and it makes a,
grave accusation against Speight and his;
officers. Furthermore, Premier Patterson
endorses the accusation by calling ex-station-
master Gedge aside and giving him, out of the'
Treasury, a certain not-to-be-mentioned sum of
money. The payment is proclaimed aloud,
whilst the amount is kept a close secret. The
Age publishes a beautiful leader, hoping that
the “justice” was “substantial,” and every
thoughtful observer scratches his head.
Mr. Rae’s Logic.
Premier Dibbs, who, even when he is damning
Chicago, is a really kind-hearted politician,
proposes that New South Wales should put up
the money to bring back those of her stranded
citizens, with their wives and families, who are
among the “ New Australia ” seceders in Para-
guay. Only one M.L.A. dissented from the
proposition, and that one, strangely enough,
was Arthur Rae. Mr. Rae demanded, ~iu
effect, that the people in question should be
left to starve or die in a st ran ere country, or
to meet whatever other fate might befall them,
and his excuse was that “ they went to
Paraguay of their own free will.” This is a
somewhat remarkable view of the matter —
especially from such a quarter. Mr. Rae
demands Government protection for the people
who put their money in bogus banks off
their own free will, being deceived thereto'
by lying balance-sheets, just as the New
Australians were deceived by delusive pic-
tures of an impossible Paradise. He wants


Patterson, K.C.M.G. —Knight of the
Cleaver Made Gentleman,
roads made in the West for the relief of
people who have gone to roadless districts
of their own free will, and he wants the Dibbs
(Government fired out of office in order to save
.a, nation which, of its own free will, put the
Dibbs Government into office. His whole
■existence is a protest against the policy of
leaving people to suffer for ever from the
■consequences of mistakes which they made of
itheir own free will. Moreover, the state-
irnent itself is utterly wrong in any case.
The children, who form a very large
part of the stranded community, had
mo voice in the matter to begin with. The
women, in some cases at all events, acted under
pressure from their husbands and were not
free agents. And the men, in every case, acted
(under the influence of wild promises made
them and fairy tales told them by the advo-
cates of the movement, of whom Mr. Rae was
■one. And even assuming that they were free
agents —which they certainly were not—they
would only rank with the person who volun-
tarily gets drunk land lies down on the tram-
lines, or the man who voluntarily goes up on a
roof in pursuit of his calling—and falls off, and
breaks his back, both of whom, by Mr. Rae’s
■callous logic, should be left to lie where they
fell.
♦
Unhappy Hawaii.
The Hawaiian situation is curious. President
Cleveland doesn’t like to take the risks in-
volved in the establishment of an American
protectorate over the islands ; and yet he fears
the odium whioh he would undoubtedly incur
even with his own supporters did he give the
Provisional Government to understand that its
proceedings would not be tolerated. It has
always been the policy of America to avoid the
■creation of colonies outside her continental
boundaries which would involve the maintenance
.of a fleet and an army to defend them ; but the
Hawaiian colonists have disregarded national
(policy in furtherance of their own interests and
jplaced a perplexing problem before American
(Statesmen. The revolution which dethroned
Liliuokalani proved the Americans in
Hawaii to have quite a British knack of
■dealing with a weaker nation. It was
based on greed, supported by impudence, and
made successful for the simple reason that
the Hawaiian natives are such a mild and
gentle race that they have no spirit to resist
foreign aggression backed by force of arms—•
and with the power of the United States seen
dimly in reserve behind their antagonists. A
glance at the census-returns effectually upsets
American pretensions. The population of the
islands is nearly 90,000 ; but there are less than
14.000 foreigners to 40,000 natives and half-
castes, the remainder being Chinese, Japanese,
and mongrel Portuguese. Of pure Americans
there are not 2000 altogether; and even on the
electoral rolls there are 9700 natives to 3900
foreigners. The native feeling is strong in
favour of the deposed Queen, the Provisional
Government being regarded as a usurpation; and
although Liliuokalani ruled as a limited con-
stitutional monarch, her supplanters have never
dared to put their power to the test of a popular
vote. They rule in right of their more potent
race-quality, and the natives, from whom over
one-half of the soil of the islands has been
wrested to foreign ownership, have no choice
ibut to submit. The ex-Queen, a foolish, im-
jpulsive, headstrong, amiable personage, natur-
ally gets support from the representatives of
nations other than American who know the
wishes of the natives and agree with them in
(thinking American supremacy undesirable. A
recent cable states that the United States have
gone so far as to appoint Admiral Walker to
■counteract British influence in favour of Liliuo-
kalani, and possibly they may yet, against
their wish, be driven to annexation.
At Mildura.
Thus a correspondent to The Bulletin :
We have a bank that doesn’t think our securities good
enough to lend us a shilling ; and we cannot mortgage
our land because there is an absolute dearth of mort-
gagees, and so we have to struggle on paying instalment
after instalment to the lucky gentlemen who, for some
eight years past, have owned the rights over half a
million acres of Australian soil and haven’t as yet sold
20.000 acres, 1 believe. In one establishment single work-
men sometimes get 10s. a week on account of their wages,
and married men 205., and in another, with a big weekly
sheet, there is frequently not one-sixth of the
amount due divided. The storekeepers have a
lively lime—they take order after orde r upon the
wages-owers, which, it is to be hoped, will be
cashed before the Day of Judgment. The place is, as a
consequence, the most absolutely joyless spot in Australia
—one half of the community expect to be sold up to-
morrow, and the other half linger about the post-office
for “ home ” remittances. Not a solitary hotel to go and
drown your sorrow in, only dirty little sly-grog shanties
at the rear of sham fruit and vegetable shops, some of
them kept by Chinamen, who occasionally go for a
holiday to Bendigo gaol, and come back smiling to the
old business. Lots of the old orchards planted with the
■wrong varieties of trees—on the wrong soil—and so doing
mo good. Leaky channels destroying valuable land, and
(the water-rates 20s. an acre, and nob above half the
people able to pay them. One-fourth of the settlers wild
■with revolt one-fourth drugged with the opium of
despair-one-fourth ignorantly hopeful and childishly
■trustful, and the other fourth fattening out of the other
(three-fourths—some as flattering parasites and some as
so-called experts, in various departments of cultivation,
whose advice has cost the settlers dear. This year we
have some raisins, and should have had more it we
could have got more water. I suppose we will have
some 600 tons to sell, for which all round we may get £3O
a ton, or perhaps a trifle more; and we had some apricots
and peaches, but only a few ; and we shall have a few
thousand gallons of wine, and altogether we may get
£25,000 worth of produce this season. Half of that goes
for supplying water, and a great deal more than the other
half for instalments on land purchases. If any of your
readers ever hear a lecturer (paid by commission on the
flies he catches) wandering around with a magic lantern,
«c., &c., expatiating on the glories of this place and the
heavenly felicity of the fruit-growers’ vocation, let them
ask, “ What is the lowest sum an intending settler should
take with him?” And if he says anything less than
£lOOO, let him, in the cause of humanity, heave a brick at
that lecturer’s head, and adopt such other measures as
may be necessary to cause the meeting to break up in
confusion. This will be a grand place some day, and the
prosperity will come all the quicker if we only learnt to
speak the absolute truth about it. So many people have
been so woefully deceived and misinformed that, within a
few months after arrival, they jump up and want to kill
somebody—lose faith, lose hope, lose energy, and win a
° «,, le thargio despair which is painful to witness and
profitless to hold. No good will ever come to this place,
or >e-half of the settlement, till So and-so is out of it.
Shut your eyes and open your mouth, and see what
So-and-so will give you,” says the other half. And both
sides call each other swear names, and sit at social
functions in opposite corners of the room and glower at
one another. And this is Arcadia.
The prosecution of a certain Melb. alleged em-
bezzler has been a quaint affair thus far. In
the first place, the magistrate was asked to
make it a case of “ simple theft,” on the under-
standing that prisoner would plead guilty and
accept a nice, simple sentence on the spot.
This application was refused. A week later
defendant’s solicitor announced that friends
had agreed to find the £lOOO or so necessary
for putting defendant’s books right, so he
would like the charge modified to “ larceny as
a servant.” Then the prosecutor’s attorney
“ concurred,” saying that he would only ask
for a light sentence. That there might be no
mistake about the meaning of “ light,” this
gentleman observed that “a few months would
be sufficient.” But after hearing evidence on
the “few months” question the Bench—Melb.
Benches are on their strictest behaviour just
now—decided to send the influential one up for
trial. One would like to hear of a friendless
embezzler, whose defalcations had to stand on
their demerits, being the object of so much
legal solicitude. Here were lawyers boldly
declaring that a subscription on behalf of
accused had reduced the price of his offence
from years to months.
The Parliamentary pressure under which it is
expected that the release of Francis Abigail,
N.S.W. ex-Minister of Mines, will be effected,
must also proportionately reduce the period of
detention or effect the release of Roderick
Magnamara, the one-time manager of Abigail’s
defunct bank. The present aspect of the affair
proves the accuracy of Macnamara’s foresight.
On the eve of his arrest that shrewd financier
lined his pockets with private incriminatory
letters, written to him at various periods by his
immaculate superior, determined, as he ad-
mitted, that if he were gaoled, conclusive evi-
dence for the conviction of Abigail should
reach the hands of the police. The police, of
course, duly “found ” the letters on the person
of Magnamara, and used their contents effec-
tively against the writer. But now for the
proof of prescience. Magnamara at the time
told his friends that Abigail’s influence in the
political world would open the prison-doors at
an early date, and that if one got out the other
must get out. Moral: Link yourself to the
great, even with handcuffs.
What is at the bottom of the Wyalong boom ?
Here we have a reefing field which has pro-
duced within the last two months 600 oz. gold,
worth altogether, say, £2OOO odd. There are
estimated to be 30 paying claims, employing
180 men ; and there is a population of 7000 or
8000, drawn to the field solely by the gorgeous
language of the Sydney daily papers. All the
gold has been got from surface scratchings; the
field isn’t proved to a depth, and the gold is said
to peter-out as the shafts go down. Yet, on
the strength of this £lOOO worth of gold, Parlia-
ment is to be asked to build a railway costing
£lOO,OOO, and is told that the alternative is a
road costing £68,000. Again, what is at the
bottom of it all ? Last Saturday’s Telegraph
has four columns of puff, and in the previous
fortnight printed nearly a dozen columns more,
besides two plans of the field. All this on
6000 z., spread over two months ! Why, the
field has hardly paid wages so far. The Herald
was led away at the outset, but it sent up a
competent man to report, and as soon as he
got there and saw what the place was like the
tone changed, and he has ever since joined the
Warden and other unbiassed persons in depre-
cating a rush until the field is proved. But the
Telegraph minimises the fact that many
are already leaving Wyalong disappointed, and
actually, in a leading article, invites Parliament
to make the suggested railway on the strength
of its own puffs—for there is nothing else to
justify it. Nothing is said of taking advantage
of the constitutional safeguard which the pro-
vince has in the Railway Commissioners, and
ascertaining whether the line would pay. And
why should Wyalong be preferred to the score
of other places with equally good or better
claims to a railway ? For the third time, what
is at the bottom of the Wyalong boom ?
♦
That serious Tory paper, the Wellington Post,
laments about the withdrawal of foreign
capital;—
A somewhat striking proof of the correctness of the
assertion that capital is thus driven away has been
afforded us. A gentleman from Victoria with £9OOO to
invest, recently visited Wellington, and in conjunction
with a resident friend, sought and found a promising in-
vestment. The capitalist determined to think the matter
over on his return to Victoria. He did so, and his friend
has just been apprised of the result in a communication
declining to invest here, because, he says inter alia :
“ 1 have such a great antipathy to such class
Government as New Zealand seems likely to be cursed
with for some time, and also to such unjust representa-
tion of capital under the existing franchise, that I think
it is best to keep clear of such a place. It is no doubt a
fine country for the working classes to emigrate to, where
they can make the laws to suit themselves, and themselves
only, and then clear out when they have starved them-
selves out. I would rather be roasted here, where the
bottom has been knocked out of the place by gambling
speculations, and where we still have our safeguards
against Labour Government, in an elective Upper House
elected only by property owners.”
This is published in all seriousness as a proof of
the horrors of Democratic government, and is
a fair sample of many other wails on the same
subject. Yet Maoriland and its Labour Minis-
try seem to be very little the worse for all this
withdrawal of foreign capital. In the present
case the Victorian capitalist proposed to become
a Maoriland absentee landlord. He in-
tended to lend that country £9OOO, and collect
the biggest interest he could get with all pos-
sible regularity. And through the policy of
the Democratic Government the country has
one absentee the less, and it doesn’t have to
send away the aforesaid interest. It simply lost a
chance to put itself up the spout to the extent
of £9OOO. The introduction of capital into a
country, through a min or a corporation in
some other country sending £9OOO along to be
invested on mortgage, is just as beneficial as the
introduction of capital into a street through the
three-ball Moses in the next street sending
along ss. to be lent on the security of some-
body’s bed-clothes. They are both pawn-
broking pure and simple, and when the ticket
runs out the result is the same in either case.
As far as the local signs of the times may be
read, the Dibbs party is going to appeal to New
South Wales with provincial Protection as its
trump-card, while the Reid-Parkes blend
intends .Australian Federation to be its stalking-
horse. While Dibbs and Co. are temporarily
much to be preferred to the impossible Reid
and the deadbeat Parkes, the question of Aus-
tralian Federation is much more vital than that
of provincial Protection. It is true that pro-
vincial Protection, by its retaliatory effects,
may re-act on other Australian provinces in
favour of Australian unity, but only through
bitterness and wranglings. Whereas Australian
Federation includes the larger hope of Pro-
tection for united Australia against the world ;
and, being placed in the foreground, the pro-
gramme that is headed by it is likely to be
more captivating to the average elector. The
true crux of the elections should be neither
provincial Protection nor Australian Federation.
The former is a small issue comparatively with
others ; the latter can be submitted both to a
plebiscite and a referendum, with advantage to
the electors and the elections. The vital issue
before the New South Wales people, and,
indeed, before the peoples of all the Australias
and of the whole world is—the adjustment of
the two opposing human forces confronting
each other. Monopoly versus Slavery. The
Fat Man versus the Lean Man. This line of
cleavage embraces all economic questions, from
“freedom of contract” to “laud taxation.”
Its due recognition means the all-round eman-
cipation of the masses.
London Nineteenth Century has been badly
hoaxed by Dr. Bakewell, a fossilised Tory,
who tirades against women’s franchise in Maori-
land :
It seems to be the general opinion that . . . the colony
is now committed for three years to a course of extreme
Radical legislation. . . . We must trust to beer and the
banks to save us from absolute ruin. The newly-elected
are nearly all, with one or two exceptions, of the most
uneducated class .... either the lowest bourgeois or
mere carpet-baggers. They have displaced men of educa-
tion and experie ice. Such are the results of female
franchise. It is to be hoped that it will be a warning to
English Conservatives. We shall probably, for some
years to come, be a dreadful object-lesson to the rest of
the British Empire.
This silly old person deliberately suppresses the
fact that Maoriland is to-day the most pros-
perous of all Australasian provinces; that
under the rule of “ men of education
and experience ” its credit smashed up, its
industries faded, and that the new measures of
new men—Dr. B.’s “lowest bourgeois”—are
alone responsible for the arrest of ruin and the
re-establishment of security and progress.
Under Conservative government debt increased,
trade and settlement decreased ; under Radical
government there has been a steady addition to
population, to imports and exports, to rail-
way revenue and general revenue, and to land
nuder cultivation; and ’93 was the most suc-
cessful year in the history of the province.
Dr. Bakewell seeks to mop back the rising
tide ! Where is his keeper ?
Newcastle (N.S.W.) hospital is chronically
involved in trouble. The late scandal which
arose from serious charges of performing illegal
operations, preferred by an ex-resident medical
officer against some of the honoraries, had just
been settled after months of acrimonious bicker-
ing when a fresh one arose. The committee
decided to retrench and apprised the newly-
appointed medical superintendent and the
matron that their salaries would be reduced by
£5O and £8 6s. Bd. per annum respectively. It
was afterwards arranged, however, that the
salaries should not be reduced, but that volun-
tary contributions to those amounts should be
accepted instead. Dr. Cribb, the medical
officer, paid in £25 in the names of 25 indivi-
duals, and the matron £8 6s. Bd. in the names
of eight others. Each donor of £1 had a
right to vote at the election of the
committee*, and when the result of that
election was announced it was found that
the whole conduct of the institution had been
entrusted to a clique, the miners (who contribute
largely) and the friendly societies being wholly
unrepresented. The committee, galled by con-
tinual attacks in the daily press, then stultified
themselves by deciding not to apply for the
Government £ for £ endowment on the amount
of the voluntary contributions of Dr. Cribb and
the matron. By extending this practice, an
undesirable committee might thoroughly baffle
all attempts to dislodge them. By fixing the
salary, say, at £l5OO per annum, and accepting
£l2OO of it as a voluntary contribution from a
pliable medical officer, they might successfully
control future elections. The whole business,
though perfectly legal, smacks of chicane.
The Social Democratic Federation, which voices
extreme English socialism, is already disgusted
with John Burns and other moderates of the
party. At the Federation’s New Year gathering
it was declared that Burns is using the powers
which had been given him to stem social pro-
gress. What saith the philosopher? “Take
the side of the people—and what caprice, what
ingratitude ! You have professed so much in
theory that you can never accomplish sufficient
in practice. Moderation becomes a crime; to
be prudent is to be perfidious ! New dema-
gogues, without temperance, because without
principle, outstrip you in the moment of your
greatest services. Where, in the history of the
world, do you find the gratitude of a people ?
You find fervour, it is true, but not gratitude ;
the fervour that exaggerates a benefit at one
moment, but not the gratitude that remembers
it next year. Once disappoint them, and all
your actions, all your sacrifices, are swept from
their remembrance for ever.”
Father Murphy, of Zeehan, Tasmania, has
denounced The Bulletin in terms which no
right-thinking paper could survive if there is
any force at all in ecclesimurphical anathema.
The trouble is about an article on secular edu-
cation, published on January 25. The Bulle-
tin argued that the distribution of knowledge
among its citizens is essential to the prosperity
and progress of a State; and that clerical
influence is adverse to the spread of know-
ledge. With other illustrations came this:
“ The population of the South and West of
Ireland, where priestly influence is paramount,
are the most illiterate in the United Kingdom.”
This is a matter of observation, supported by
statistics ; and Father Murphy' apparently did
not attempt to deny it. But, he said, the per-
centage of illegitimacy in the South and West
of Ireland is less than in any other part of the
United Kingdom. What illegitimacy has to do
with illiteracy is known only to Father
Murphy, who proceeds to confuse illegitimacy
with morality, as if it were impossible for a
legitimate infant to grow up a criminal. Ire-
land is proverbially a country of chaste women
and brave men, and it is practically the least
criminal country of the United Kingdom ; but
that does not alter the following figures from
Mulhall, who says that “as in England, the
increase ol schools in Ireland has brought a
decrease of crime, viz. :
Children Annual School Criminals
Attending Convic- Children per 100,000
School. lions, per 1000 pop. pop.
1851-60 220,000 7705 35 124
1861-70 310,000 2918 56 53
1871-80 405,000 2492 77 47
1887 513,000 1412 106 29
Father Murphy's contention appears to be that
education brings immorality. This table is
pretty conclusive evidence to the contrary.
A letter which reached the Towers the other
day addressed to Messrs. Gold Mining and
Company, Charters Towers, North Queens-
land :
Thursday Island, 11th March, 1894. Gentlemen,-We
have the pleasure of writing you this few lines to make
inquiry for the vacancy of labourers in your establish-
ment. There being too many Japanese out of employ-
ment here, and no rooms for them to get their em-
ployment for the present, they are at the greatest
embarrassment how they feed upon themselves every day.
Under such circumstances our institution are most
anxious and bewildered when we apply them to for the
suitable employment at the present time. May we ask
you employing some of them if you have any vacancy in
your establishment. If you will please let us know at
once by the return post or cablegram. Everything shall
be arranged here at the moderate terms, but we wish you
will inform us how' much wages per month for each man
you offer, when you have to employ, and you will bear a
passage money or not at your expense. Hoping to hear
from you at once.—Yours obedient servants, The Japanese
Club.
The miners regarded this as a huge joke, for
one Japanese in a Charters Towers mine would
mean a riot. They look on unconcerned while
these same Japanese get work in sugar-planta-
tions on the coast— that is no affair of theirs.
They don’t see that their day is assuredly
coming to compete with cheap labour, unless
cheap labour is finally excluded. It is only a
question of time till the coloured man makes
his way into mining, as he has made it into
agriculture. South Queensland capitalists view
his progress with unconcealed satisfaction,
flattered by Miss Shaw. Only Separation, by
bringing Northern government into the hands
of Northern workers, can arrest the plague.
Yet the Labour Fedeiation governed by
Southern officials—remarks casually that Separa-
tion is only a secondary question !
A few English Methodist and Baptist parsons
are making a holy show of paying into the
“Liberator Relief Fund” moneys contributed
of old to their little tabernacles by Jabez
Balfour. The peculiarity of these religious
restitutions is their extreme smallness. In the
cases where Jabez gave a modest “ tenner ” or
so to the Loard there is a stern, snuffling desire
to repay the same to the saint’s earthly victims.
Where the Loard was more richly endowed His
apostles are unanimous in thinking that the
gift of the cheerful giver is sanctified, no matter
by what means he raised the ill wind which
comforted the fat lamb. After all, there is
no palpable reason why the alms-giving
of Jabez should be repudiated. He was
mainly a sectarian swindler, who worked
the self-righteous business for all it is worth—
viz., hard cash. Jabez gave to Methodist and
Baptist churches that he might take more from
their soul-saving congregations. The churches
flourished on the deal, and since Jabez didn’t
embezzle the blessed souls of true believers they
have nothing to grumble at. Why do in-
vestors in Balfour companies so furiously
rage ? Their avowed double-motive in life is to
advance their little creeds and save their petty
souls. Let ’em be joyful accordingly. Bal-
four acted as agent for Heaven, and
although he deducted a gigantic commission the
bloated hypocrite was still “a power for grace,”
nor did he sneak the redemption of the chosen.
Alleluia !
«.
The Bishop of Melbourne opines that all the
troubles of that fallen city—all the hunger,
Wretchedness, hopelessness and general bank-
ruptcy —are due to the want of true religion.
“ If the working men would but turn to Christ,”
he says, “the Bible would speedily be intro-
duced into every State school, and the turn of
the tide, so long awaited, would be witnessed.”
Venerable snuffle ! Things will all come right
when the working man “turns to Christ.”
There is never any need for the Federal Bank
crowd, or the Mercantile, or the Real Estate,
or the Freehold Investment gang, or the Aus-
tralian Banking Co. people, to “ turn to
Christ.” The trouble doesn’t lie in any want
of true and humble piety among the people who
issued crooked balance-sheets, or hilariously
squandered the deposits of the workers. It
was only theabsenceof deep religious convictions
among the masses which made Murphy build a
whole township of broken brickbats on the
Elsternwick swamp and made Jimmy Mirams
help to lend him the Premier Permanent’s
money to do it with. Fink paid only £d.
in the £ through the want of reverence
among the poor, and the deserted allot-
ments along the deserted Outer Circle rail-
way are all forlorn and unsaleable because
the bulk of the community hasn’t awakened to
a knowledge of its own sinfulness. It is this
sort of holy drivel which makes every healthy
man long to kick large pieces off the Church
with his working boots. According to the
parsonical creed the man who is on top, no
matter how he got there, is always a holy in-
dividual who rose through the blessing of the
Loard, and the man who is hungry, and whose
pants are torn behind, and who was probably
ruined by the holy individual, is a sinful wretch
who is being “ chastened.” Therefore the
Church always has a call to cheer for the fellow
on top and to sternly admonish the fellow
underneath, and decent men feel sick as they
listen to it and go in for reading Jos. Symes*
paper as an antidote.


ML & H. WOOLF &, CO.,
v Tobacco and Cigar Merchants,
have
REMOVED TO 376 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY (General Post Office next door).
(y Thin WEEK, send for Box of 100 Indian Cigars
(Spencer's Heavy Weight), 15s.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
_A_ Good and. Clxeap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition*
less.
f
Manufactured bv
FROSSARD & GO
I’AltKHi (Switzerland)*
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
Oh ! draught divine, that adds new life—breeds
mirth —
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Where shall I quaff thee ? Horace! thou shouldst
know?
Why, in the Boar’s Head Brand of Innes and Co.
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
[?]
846 Macquarle-street North, Sydney,
April 4, 1894.
My Dear Moohabinda—
Miss Jessie Middleton’s first public concert at
Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall, under the weary eye of
Lady Duff (in a black gown brightened with jet)
and a big society house, turned out most success-
fully. Jessie Middleton-for thus she billed her-
self- is a charming girl with a pretty face, dark
hair, and much natural nervousness which, as
she completely masters it at the piano, is only an
attraction in so young an artiste ; she has the
quaintest German curtsey-bob I ever saw. At her
concert she wore an Empire dress in white brocade,
with big puff sleeves —which she should alter first
chance. When a furioso movement was playing
those huge white puffs would wobble like blanc-
mange crossing the line, and it drew people’s
attention from the music. I believe in rigid dress-
ing for almost every artiste. Lady Halle’s
coquettish ends of chiffon and Madame Patey’s
purple-and-gold used to be disturbing influences to
every woman in the house.
As a player, Jessie M. is not a great artiste.
She has none of Florence Menk-Meyer’s electricity
—she can’t play without losing her hairpins. But
her performance is full of spirit and colour—not
too neat, but still close to the composer. Her
wrist action is delightfully free, and her fortissi-
mos are not blows. I like her style ; it is almost
masculine in its crisp purpose, and if her playing
of the first adagio movement in the Moonlight
Sonata was rather rugged, it was because of the
brightness and, one might say, exuberance of her
method. Assisting the star were Miss Colborne
Baber, Mrs. Riley, Farley, Adams, and Edgar
Straus, whose ’cello solo, “The Ebbing Tide,”
with organ accompaniment, was one of the loudly-
encored items. Miss Middleton intends settling
down as a teacher on the higher scale in Sydney
after a round of concert engagements.
People who went say that the first vice-regal
ball of the season, at Sydney Government House,
was a success, as all vice regal entertainments are
foredoomed to be. The spirit of superlativeness
broods over every gubernatorial hospitality, and
even if a Timon of Athens came to rule over us,
and offered stones and water to the crowd, the
morning papers would chronicle it as a “charming
novelty.” Even mere raspberry-sandwiches cannot
make a vice-regal guest go away saying that she
hasn’t enjoyed herself. To be within the sacred
vice-regal precincts is enough joy for most people,
even if they have somebody standing on their
trains all night.
By the way, one or two lively girls deeply resent
the electric-lightfixingson thelawnatGuvmentouse
—a ball with search-light fixings in the garden
is like a ballet in long skirts. And nothing
happened to the electric points, which are
addicted to puzzling waxings and wanings in
places where it doesn’t matter much ; they
glared steadily all the evening as tho’ the vice-
regal hostess would say, “ Every care taken, but
no responsibility.” A good many new faces
turned up at the autumn ball. Lady Duff doesn’t
seem to be nursed by the “ Government House
committee” to the extent suspicious Lady Jersey
was.
Next day, after the ball, was the garden-party
(which ought to be called the “ gravel party,” in
this instance, for that’s where most of the people
loiter), which a large crowd enjoyed, to the sound
of the brass band, of course. A grass-party with-
out a brass band would be impossible, and it was
only right that Lady Duff should congratulate tho
bandmaster on his skill, just as all stage-managers
of “ Hamlet ” make a point of congratulating the
Ghost. By the way, Lady Duff is lucky in the
weather she gets—hardly any of her shivooa have
had to be got to in mackinproofs.
Steeplechase-day brought the A.J.C. Autumn
meeting at Randwick to a festive full stop on
Saturday, when the fine sky should have encour-
aged fine dressing, which it didn’t, generally
speaking. It might have been called “Hey,
presto !” day on the Members ! You would watch
a pretty woman out of sight in white muslin and
she would presently bob up round the other corner
covered cap-k-pie in a fur-trimmed overcoat.
Coats were quite a feature—those expensive never-
wear-outs that hide a multitude of sins when the
season’s changing and are a compromise with your
frock-builder when sbe hints that you want re-
covering.
In the vice-regal box, the two Duff daughterlets
who are still in the schoolroom, presented a most
workmanlike appearance in grey suits with smart
sailor hats. Lady Duff wore a depressed-looking
dress the colour of a swamp kangaroo, surmounted
by a rather top-heavy black hat in three tiers with
a feather on the top storey. Miss Duff was like a
rubbed-out oil-painting in full fawn and sage
green. Mrs. Rupert Carington presented a bright
and summery aspect in pink etherealised with
grizzled gauze flounces. The effect of Mrs. C.
among the mournfully-hued vice-regal ladies was
that of a bird of paradise in a barnyard.
Mrs. Hutton’s dress was like an opal cut into
flounces, and her little bonnet had pink roses and
a black feather. Mrs. Prendergast sported the
best-looking over-garment in the shape of a Paris
paletot in black velvet, silk, jet and gold passe-
menterie. Miss Burdett-Smith wore white bro-
cade, combined with lavender silk and white lace
floral tuque of myrtle. Miss Ada Fosbery, in a
dust-coloured gown with a trimming of coarse lace,
looked neatly put together. Miss Carter (Mel-
bourne), in black satin picked out with red, did
the lawn with Melbourne’s ever-green club-man
“ Reggie ” Bright.
A well-known society girl in brown had put a
large shaded check on herself with good effect,
and a lively society matron pointed with her finger
at objects of interest in the most unconventional
manner, though she certainly had a good bracelet
on. If ankles were the go, I really believe a cer-
tain portion of society would turn flip-flaps on the
lawn to show them off. By the way, how shall
we size up the frisky society lady who, erstwhile
surrounded with bell-toppers and with hardly a
nod for female rivals, now is the animated axis of
a group of middle-aged bonnets? A pretty
woman never sacrifices herself to the society of
her own sex until she’s afraid of it.
The sartorial incongruity between men and
women was the point about the third day’s racing
at Rand wick —ungroomed coats doing the lawn
alongside feminine smartness. Major-General
Hutton ; Rupert Carington—who is cultivating
quite a Johnny Lucas vest-outline; Melbourne’s
pet bachelor, Reginald Bright; Admiral Smith,
sporting a large red buttonholer as though he had
got a third prize at a show —all these were spruce
exceptions, but the percentage of country he-
cousins, stuffed into high collars and armed with
tightly-furled umbrellas regardless of the other-
wise rustic cut of their jib, was very large, and
spoilt the effect of many a promising pair.
Mrs. Rupert Carington, in indigo-blue, was
trimmed like “lightning in a clear sky ” with zig-
zag white braid ; a plain white vest and an aviary
in her bonnet completed the toilet. Mrs. Carington
duenna’d the two grown-up Duff girls, who didn’t
hold the mirror up to fashion on this occasion.
People notice that the simple-featured, vice-regal
damsels do the lawn freely with the pot hat and
sac-coat brigade—a silk hat is no sine-qud-non
nowadays when you want to squire the contents
of the Guv’nah’s box. Also, Sydney’s leading
maidens have no objection to stemming the mixed
tide from the saddling-paddockatthe most exciting
moments. I saw one of them standing calmly
conversing at the grandstand corner while the
assorted race-course crowd boiled round her like
surf breaking on a boulder.
The most good-looking dress on Thursday wa s
sported by a society ladylike Edith Blaude boiled
down, who wore a black double skirt with a beaver-
colour vest and a cheeky little bonnet that looked
as tho’ the wearer was pricking up her ears. But
the very soonest bonnets—let me tell you—have a
big bow tied at the back, and when it’s done in
black ribbon you think you are sitting behind a
mute.
A golden-haired society girl looked absolutely
dowdy in a black dress, cut like a back-blocks
riding habit, topped by a little fawn hat like a
winkle-shell with a cock’s-feather in it. It was so
hopelessly hideous that I’m sure it was very
fashionable indeed if people had only known it.
Her married sister wore a coat the colour of a
laughing jackass. Which reminds me that what
is style for the goose isn’t style for the gander,
for a man may not stick his hands in his coat-
pockets in moments of racking ceremony, but
drape a woman in a similar garment and the very
first thing she does is to stuff her fists in the
pockets thereof.
A new society walk comes in with the Autumn,
reminiscent of the Grecian bend or the first pre-
monition of colic. The patient is straight up to
her waist, and then leans forward at the sudden
angle an ordinary person employs in getting up a
hill. Which reminds me that a jockey—l ke a
swan —should never walk. I saw a rider in Donald
Wallace’s colours waddling up the straight after
his mount, and I really couldn’t fancy his style of
getting along. It looked as though he thought
the turf was red-hot ploughshares, or that a
tussock would get up and bite him.
Regarding the Easter meeting dressing as the
last word of autumn fashion, one concludes that
Australia doesn’t take the half-way season
seriously. A mingling of serges and silks, feathers
and flowers, is neither one thing nor the other. If
the autumn belle has new points she doesn’t mind
a fig whether the rest of her’s a resurrection—
which is admirable economy but very poor
spectacle. Still, so long as women don’t wear
roses and fur-equivalent to wearing tulle over
flannel— when the summer is going to pieces, I
don’t think we have much to quarrel with them
for.
Among the men, only one painfully-got-up
?routh stood out. He was attired from the top of
lis long hat to the hem of his Sunday continua-
tions in pale ghost grey—tie, gloves and all a
marvellous match. He looked like the spook of a
by gone Johnny revisiting the scene of past
dissipations, only that you couldn’t quite see
through him. And talking of male attire re-
minds one that the long-tail coats (so fashionable
just now) that make a thin-legged man look like a
pelican in the wilderness are a step towards the
petticoated man the comic papers threaten us
with. Voluminous coat-tails must do one of two
things. They must either taper off to sensible
dimensions or grow into “ waterfalls.” The long
and plumpness-concealing coat is a “ town ”
fashion—which argues that the Prince of Wales
doesn’t look any thinner to anybody coming along
at the back of him.
The ball in aid of Kilburn Orphanage of Mercy
eventuated, in Paddington Town Hall, the other
Friday, with so much gilt-edged success that
there were not enough people present. Sydney
Society is supposed to comprise only one hundred
top-creamy individuals, and even when you multi-
ply them with a judicious selection of what
might be called the upper skim you cannot fill a
charity-bag with the price of the gathering.
Regarded as a smart subscription-dance, the ball
left nothing to be desired.
Lady Duff and her daughters lent a vice-regal
odour to the festivities, but I suppose it
was in honour of General Hutton (who is
virtually Society’s leading man) that the band
Elayed the National Anthem as the warrior and
iady Duff swept to the very top of the hall, and
then went back on their tracks, having made a
false dash for the dais which wasn’t there. When
the Governor isn’t present the audience is officially
spared the Anthem, and the vision of Lady Duff j
in a brown gown livened with shot pink velvety
coming in to His Excellency’s music, was as if
Mephisto made an entrance-cue of the Jewel
Song. Otherwise things were capitally managed.
There was no very striking dressing. Blonde
Mrs. Hutton, in a faint brocade subdivided with
sage-green silk —a cr6pe tucker and radiating
diamonds, always looks well in full dress; Mrs.
Hotham, in invisible-brown silk with corselet
bodice of gold passementerie and sleevelets of gof-
fered brown silk, must have plumed herself on the
fact that nobody else had a dress like it—which is
more than pink, white, and blue damsels could
congratulate themselves on. The Mayoress wore
a handsome gown of black brocade and silver;
Mrs. Rupert Carington, in her favourite colour,
pink, copiously covered in white chiffon, was re-
miniscent of a baby’s bassinette; and a recent
bride, in black with whitegloves and shoes, looked
as if the happy bridal hue had faded away to her
extremities.
They are saying in Barataria that unpunctuality
is a vice-regal vice. Only the other day a be-
ribboned committee almost gave him up in despair
—and she kept a ball and a concert hanging about
for hours. At a ball and a concert the band —
after waiting until their fiddle-strings cracked —
struck up a waltz to keep the couples already
formed for the vice-regal lancers out of mischief.
But in she came just as they had full swing on,
causing a sudden stop which made the astonished
dancers telescope into one another, and one or two
couples who hadn’t grasped the situation were
seen wildly and ineffectually trying to waltz to the
National Anthem.
One reason for the tarrying of his Excellency’s
chariot wheels may be the slowly hastening vice-
regal gee-gees, which pass a ’bus with difficulty,
and are actually flouted by common cabs. So
totally different to Governor Gonebefore’s “ houp-
la ” toolings that made some people mistake his
cortege for the fire-brigade. But it seems to me
that the only safeguard, if you have slow horses,
is to keep your clocks fast.
“Relations have been strained”—as the cable
says—at a certain Guvmentouse between Ins Ex-
cellency and the private secretary, his Ex. not
playing speaks for quite a long stretch with the
literary character on his hearthstone, to the detri-
ment of his public utterances, by the way, which,
for some time past, have sounded to experienced
ears as if the whole family had been offering sug-
gestions to the vice-regal orator, each of which
had been eagerly accepted. It must be rather a
dreadful thing to be a bear-leader in disguise
watching your bear performing at his own sweet
will?
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Lights o’ London.’*
Critkriox “ Hans the Boatman.”
Lyceum “Dandy Dick.”
Bijou “The Strategist.”
Fillis’s Circus, Opposite Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Opera Co.’s last nights.
Theatre Royal “ Struck Oil."
Alexandra “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin."
Aluaubra Variety Show.
On Friday evening, explorer Ernest Giles
lectured in Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall on exploration
and the Westralian goldfields. It was under the
auspices of the Sydney branch of the Geographical
Society, and the depressing influence of that body
was visible in the front seats, although the hind-
quarters of the hall were fairly well filled. The
R.G.S. of Australasia can break the record for
fiascos. It lives on failure and glories in a col-
lapse. It never got together a tolerable
audience but once, when they ran in Gov.
Carington (then a novelty) as chairman, and
MTver, of countless flags, got up and wanted
to wipe the floor with the president. Ernest
Giles fought gamely against both their blight
and the misguided efforts of the lantern
operator, who had jumbled up the slides so that
the last became first and the first became last.
More hasty flights were made across the western
half of Australia that night than will ever be
made again.
* * #
The lecture was interesting enough in its
way, but the Prince of Denmark was left out of
the play. Beyond apologising for not finding
Coolgardie, the lecturer had not much to say
about Tom Tiddler’s ground. As a bushman,
Giles has established a well-earned and honourable
record ; as a lecturer, we regret to say that he is
even worse than Stanley. There was a good deal
of gore in the course of the evening, and the
artist who drew the subject of the views always
represented 5000 natives, more or less, as being
withjn arm’s length of the intrepid explorers with
upraised spears, but everybody, except one or two
niggers, came out all right. Since we last smiled
with Giles he has grown a dark, glossy, cavalry-
droop moustache, which was alone a glory and
worth two shillings to see. Also, in spite of the
aggravation of getting a view of camels in a scrub
when he expected a horse gasping its last on a
plain, he never used a swear-word throughout the
evening. By the way, why does Mr. Giles always
talk of “crossing the continent,” when, from the
overland line to the West Coast is only half the
continent.
%
The Brough-Boucicault co. put up the
beautiful comedy of “ Niobe ” on Saturday night.
On that memorable occasion the Lyceum was
crowded to the doors, and the audience was as
enthusiastic as if it had never seen the petrified
Greek widow before, and when that lady wanted
to know why Cecil Ward concealed his legs in
pants, it was as profoundly interested in the
situation as it used to be at the Criterion some
time ago. The cast is the same as that of the
former production, except that Miss Bessie Major
appears as the conventional governess, and doesn’t
look altogether at home in the part. But with
this single exception the performance is practically
perfect. Mrs. Brough, as the marble widow, is an
especial success, and she casts one or two new
side-lights on the character of that dank person
which were not noticeable before. Also, Brenda
Gibson, as the perky maid in short skirts, does
likewise, having evidently thought out one or two
new forms of aggravation for the benefit of her
elders. “Niobe” runs for six nights only, and
will be succeeded on Saturday by “ Dandy Dick.”
« « * *K
On Saturday Geo. Rignold falls back once
more on the “Lights of London,” which has filled
so many gaps in the past and will fill so many
more in the future. There seems to be a perennial
freshness about this bulky sensation. The reason
of this is about as obscure as the problem of Cecil
Ward’s pants above alluded to.
* * *
“ Cinders,” produced on Saturday at
Sydney Royal, is a drama in four acts, by Miss
Blanche Lewis. There is nothing else specially
commendable about it. It contains pretty nearly
every solemn observation that The Bulletin re-
members meeting in all the dramas it ever saw,
and nearly every hackneyed situation that could
be crowded into the space. It contains that noble
sailor who is always named Jack —even a sailor
named Bill would be refreshing for a change ; and
this person offers to give away large sums of money
in a reckless fashion which is wholly incommensu-
rate with his salary. The sailor named Jack is so
utterly wearisome that The Bulletin would take
an Afghan camel-driver in exchange for him
and feel grateful. A money-lender finances a
person named Dick in a manner that is simply
childish, and lends him JllOO notes in the
street without security; and a hardened
thief is converted in two minutes or less
through buying a flower on a bridge, and
resolves to lead a virtuous life thereafter. Also
a large, stern policeman, who is running in an
innocent girl, is so utterly jflabbergasted when
Jack comes in and simply states that he is Jack,
that he lets go his prisoner on the instant.
« * •
The authoress is afflicted with an idea that
the daughter of a plain, fat, city knight is a
“ Lady,’’and she also seems to imagine that when
a piece of jewellery goes astray in a fashionable
mansion a constable has legal authority to seize
and search the women servants in the drawing-
room, there and then. The fact that women are
generally overhauled by a female searcher has
evidently not come under her observation. There
are one or two tragic scenes in the play, but the
company takes them as calmly as if it was asking
somebody to pass the beans. Miss Polly Emery,
as “ Cinders ” herself, is a bright spot in the show,
and so, in a less degree, are Mr. Norman and Miss
Blanche Lewis, but the rest of the company is
tolerably commonplace. Various things might be
done to improve “Cinders,” but perhaps the best
improvement of all would be for a cathedral to
fall on it and end the trouble at once.
** * *
“The Strategist” is evidently good for
another week, or several weeks more, at Sydney
Bijou (late the Gaiety), and will be continued £Ol
an indefinite period accordingly.
** * m
The one change of importance announced
in Fillis’ Circus programme is the substitution of
“ Deadwood Dick ” for the old “ Stag Hunt.”
“ Deadwood Dick” is probably so like the “Stag
Hunt” that it will be practically impossible to
tell one from the other, or either of them from
“Dick Turpin,” but the new name is refreshing,
anyhow.
* * *
Mr. Larmour, of Coogee Aquarium, pro-
poses to recommence Sunday entertainments at
that seaside resort, and is getting some big attrac-
tions in readiness. The good old Sabbatarian
law is also understood to be sharpening its teeth
for the occasion, and great times are anticipated.
* * *
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” at Melbourne
Alexandra, is in the main a triumphant nigger
entertainment. Out of respect to tradition it
lapses into sadness at intervals, but every cloud
has a musical lining, and the coloured brudder
who gets buffeted in one scene retaliates by kick-
ing his overseer in the next. Also, several people
go up to Heaven in an impressive manner when
they die. All things considered, slavery has a
good time of it at the Alexandra, so much so that
one pities the local unemployed for having been
born in a free country where the bloated capitalist
doesn’t run a minstrel show for the destitute.
Topsy, impersonated by Miss Dora Mostyn, is a
bold study in black who rages throughout the
middle portion of the drama and disappears sud-
denly. Little Eva is a sweet vision with
an unangelic voice, and the Tom of Hosea Easton
plays as naturally, and, therefore, ineffectively, as
ever. Another old identity is E. B. Russell as
Simon Legree, a strong addition to the company.
Numerous other parts are filled more or less well,
a special novelty being a nigger in a frilled night-
cap, appointed to pop up amidst the bed clothes
and shout “O Lord !” Furthermore, the scenery
painted for “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” sheds glory
upon all concerned, also the flight of Eliza via
ismall blocks of ice placed two feet apart is a
vividly impossible proceeding. Keener stage
management would improve this large variety
drama a good deal, but the present lack of atten-
tion to detail doesn’t prevent “Uncle” from doing
a splendid business. The curtain rises at 8 every
evening till further notice.
« # •
“ Struck Oil” is even a huger success Than
the other popular-priced revival. Each night last
week they turned money away from the Theatre
Royal, and the chronic dead-head is desired not
to ask for an order if he respects his feelings—
which, by the way, he usually doesn’t. This state
of affairs says much for the popularity of Lizzie
Stofel, and more, perhaps, for the value of a
preliminary puff in the law courts. “Struck
Oil,” with John Forde in the principal part, is not
all that it used to be, nevertheless the perform-
ance goes well. Forde wins sympathy for the


“ The Bulletin’s” Missing-Word
Competiti on. —JVo. 12,
The above competition closed with 5158 sub
subscribers, making a total capital of .£257 18s.
Four subscribers only guessed the correct word,
“IRRECONCILABLE,” and the dividend to
each winner is consequently .£64 9s. 6d. The
greatest run was upon “undesirable.” Among
a number of more or less surprising guesses were
“ antipodal ” —why the anarchist should be more
antipodal than any one else was not expounded—
“explosive,” “licentious,” “lethal,” “antipodac”
—such seems to be another variety of antipodal—
“antibasilican,” and “fugitive.” Also one per-
son who has a high opinion of the English
character spent two-shillings upon- “un-British.”
The following are the names and addresses of the
winners
\V. J. Corbett, Forbes, N.S.W.
W. B. Crouch, Lowan, Kalangadoo, "'Mount Gambler,
S.A.
Rose Taylor, Plorenoeville, Prospect Road, Summer
Hill, N.S.W.
Dr. Bennett, Guljrong, N.S.W.
Coupon for Missing-Word Competition No. 13
will be found inside the red cover at end of this
issue.
CASH BONUS
DISTRIBUTION
Of Profits to Po'ioy-holders every Month as follows:
IST CASH BONUS, £4OOO
2nd „ „ 2000
3rd ~ „ 1500
40 „ „ at 50
40 CASH BONUSES at £25
Under the Co.’s system of ballot it is possible for the
holder of a policy for £26 to receive six (6) separate cash
bonuses of the total value of £4092 10s., and for the
holder of a policy of £lOO to receive twenty-three (23)
separate cash bonuses of the total value of £7870.
N.B.j
A Policy for £25 can be obtained for a
premium.
‘A Policy for £lOO can be obtained for a •
premium.
'2/6
id/-
Press and Policy-holders present at all ballots.
Address Personally or by Letter—G. R. WEBB,
The Accident Coupon
Insurance Co. of IXT.'ST,
12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
lazy old Dutchman, apart from the fact that he is
Lizzie’s parent, and his carefully-acted crazy scene
is helped along by H. R. Roberts and Stewart,
junr., who couldn’t be bettered in their small
parts. “The Chindbe Question,” too, shows
Maggi© Moore in her full oomio strength. The
farmyard chant that she sings in this aged farce
is a feature or the double bill.
** * *
“Paul Jones,” at the Princess’, was
brightened by the return of Nellie Stewart last
Thursday, when the original Yvonne surpassed
her former self in sundry respects. Unfortunately,
this effort was premature, and offended Nature
wreaked such vengeance upon Nellies vocal
chords that Florence Young took her place again
", ci a f„ r dav The onera is also nnlnckv in the
on Saturday. X lie opera is also unlucky in the
matter of Ryley s voice, which has dropped below
par since that heroic artist assumed the lovely
clothes of Master Paul. Otherwise the cast has
managed to dispel some of the disappointment
that clouded the first night’s performance, and
business remains brisk anvwav Lauri and
business remains onsk, anyway. Xjaun ana
Courtneidge make more of themselves than they
did, the Insect, in particular, betraying a talent
for heathen gibberish and cannibal noises in the
last act. “Paul Jones ” gives place on Saturday
to “La Cigala,” and Bland Holt will follow the
opera company a week later (14th) with “A
Woman’s Revenge.” To-morrow (Friday) is
announced as the farewell night of Robert Court-
neidge, a comedian who will forthwith sail for
London, leaving an Australian reputation to keep
his memory green until he comes back. They
mostly do come back, these actors, when they
can count on a welcome.
Sfc ¥6 $1:
Melb. Alhambra has Whitburn and other
7 j . i .... . . . ,
blackened identities steadily making as much
variety as they can think of. The Cogills are in
a fair way to establish their show at the Gaiety,
and the Bijou—often mentioned in connection
with certain Garnerian projects—advertises for a
tenant, as usual. Professor Marshall Hall has
K , . .. _
condoned his latest hysterics by giving another
admirable orchestral concert m the lown Hall,
The same building has been engaged for next
Saturday by the friends of Miss Lalla Miranda,
and a great benefit to that fascinating soprano is
certain to ensue. By the way, there is some talk
of a testimonial-concert to Gladstone Wright, who
is also off to England at an early date.
* * «
“ Hans the Boatman,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, continues tu keep a lap, a?,ay of pal,.
faced infants with tneir noses clean at least once a
day. The awful pallor of the crowd of merry
babes which sit in the young boatman’s pocket
points the moral that even the infants in anaemic
Australia have to rush to the rouge-pot if they
“ . . . p niL„
wanb ,, . bo „.° l; f^ ecb ? ve / l^ er snnsefc ’ 16
“ kiddies in Hans act better every evening,
»nd when they swarm all over him it makes that
idyllic loafer look like a fancy picture of Brigham
Young at home. It is a sight to put the old
woman who lived in a shoe on her mettle on
general principles.
At Poverty Point.
Significant announcement! “The Lyric Club (Melb.)
will in future devote itself to the study of sacred music.”
Same old routine 1 The last performance of the olub was
for the benefit of Mr. Roland Cunningham, who netted
three-and-iixpen.ee from a good house. The performance
the night before was for the Collingwood Grgche, and the
committee of that institution was most energetic in the
sale of tickets. There was a big house, but later the
CrSche people got notice that the Lyric Club regretted
its inability to forward any proceeds from the late
entertainment. An application for a balance-sheet was
suggested, but the matter was let drop.
A note of strefiuous deprecation has been uttered by
the Misses Grundy, of Melb. Princess's dress-circle, over
the thoroughly business-like, realistic way in which the
beatific Ryley does his hugging and kissing of the comic
opera heroines.
Said that D’Argo, of the gossamer skirt and fantastic
toe, has been receiving £5O a month for teaching a Melb.
child the high-kicking, back-bending business. Child is
to pose as “Little D’Argo.”
Anyone asking “Jimmy ” Moore for a dress-circle pass
at Melb. T.R. just now gets the answer: “ You might as
well ask mg for 3s. straightaway." Maggie has certainly
“ Struck Oil."
Theatrical biz is now large all round in Melb., and the
Bijou might be tried at cheap prices.
Wybert Reeve trotted out the notice “ HOUSE FULL ”
on the first night of “Charley’s Aunt” at Adelaide—for
the first lime in two years. Seven hundred were refused
admission, and the house contained an Australian record
attendance, according to Louis Lohr.
Prof. Marshall Hall, of Melbourne, describes his new
“Idyll” in a gush of literary hysteria about “solemn
awe,’” “still summer nights,” “the noiseless, immensurate
ocean, beyond whose dim verge mountains and valleys,
as if by enchantment, uplift, ghostlike, dreams of another
forgotten age, and other seas break there upon other
shores.” Then we get: “Nature in all her grandeur,
eternal and infinite.” “The atmosphere vibrating with
joyous, ardent, youthful love." “Two lovers sitting,
hand in hand, feel the solemn tranquility of the night.”
“The opening theme, coloured by trombones, enters, as
it were, a symbol of eternity.” “Then the wild,
passionate parting, and the mystery of night is again over
all." “The stars shine out with ever-increasing bril-
liancy, and, fused into the spirit of the scene, an echo of
love is faintly heard,” &0., &c. A symbol of eternity
coloured by trombones, the gleaming stars, the ocean
murmur 1 Ye gods I the Professor’s idea of the true
inwardness of a cat-riot on an iron roof would make
magnificent “ copy.”
Snazelle’s farewell advt. in Cape Times wound up with
this bit of impudence: “To Australians.—You are hereby
requested to rally around your Anglo-Australlan Com-
patriot, or you will be reported to the Sydney Bulletin.
Members of the Australian Club, Please Tremble.”
Minnie Palmer’s venture at the Royalty, says The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, is a dismal failure.
“The Little Widow ” is absurd, though a funny enough
piece, but the public will not go to the Royalty. Minnie,
by the way, advertises herself as “ Your Sweetheart,”
which is very good of her. Personally, it is long since
she was my sweetheart, and the era of skipping-ropes and
towzled hair has long since passed.
Cables announce that David Christie Murray is charged
with wife desertion. The deserted lady is, presumably,
identical with a Melbourne lady who used to elocute a
ittle.
On Thursday last, in Melb., £3Ol was handed to Ada
Crosslev as the result of her local benefit-concert. This
included an anonymous donation of £25 and £37 worth
of tickets sold by a most energetic admirer.
George Darrell comes back to Australia per Alameda
with six new dramas and a mysterious patent enterprise
which he proposes to run in New South Wales.
Rumoured that Garner has leased Melb. Bijou.
Demise: J. E. Kitts. He came to Sydney nearly 40
years ago, from San Francisco, with a minstrel troupe,
and prophetic rumour killed him in Maoriland, last year.
As Lyster’s business-man, he could also replace his
particular friend Farquharson, as Marcel, in the
“ Huguenots.”
Miss Hilda Fraser, of Melb., is playing the part of Mary
Ibbetson, in “My Jack,” with Charles Holloway’s Co. at
Newcastle. In a recent Bulletin it was erroneously
stated that this young lady was under engagement to Mr.
Rignold.
“Albert Edward,” remarks Tub Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “ was so pleased with the performance of
Harry Atkinson, the Australian Orpheus (from Melb.),
that he sent him a very nice little memento of a concert
at Finsbury Barracks, at which A.E. was present. Just
now, Harry has no rival in his special business, nor
even an imitator, which is still more wonderful, for there
are always people ready to copy, if they can, any success-
ful line.” This country is glad to hear of an Australian’s
success, but it somehow can’t quite understand the great
success achieved by Mr. Atkinson.
The Wild-Cat Column.
Dr. M Launn s promised N.S.W. legislation
directed against private banks will need watching. As
foreshadowed, it will make the amount of capital the
crux of the question. Thus aainstitution with £lOO,OOO
behind it will be a bank ; one with £50,000 may not be.
The crux should nob be the amount, but the relation of
assets to liabilities. A co. or corporation with £lO,OOO
behind it may be more solvent than one with £1,000,000,
and may better fill the meaning of the word “ bank."
* • • •
Victoria’s “biggest” man makes no secret of
*'be fact that he is somewhat troubled about the matter of
ready cash. He now considers it necessary to attend his
office every day, even on Saturdays.
* * ♦ ♦
“Let N.S.W. squatters take to heart the lesson
taught by the latest report of Nelson Brothers, the large
meat-importers," remarks The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent. “ They actually lost £lOOO on the year’s deal-
ings, and the chairman stated that “the importsgenerally
from Australia and Maoriland exceeded the capabilities of
consumption in England.’ However, other people besides
the English would eat cheap meat. “Meantime, owing to
a slight scarcity of lamb, Maoriland is selling at 6Jd. per
lb., and Australian at 6Jd. The best lamb which has come
to the market was a shipment from the Upper Hunter. It
beat Canterbury into fits."
• * • •
The bankrupt estate of Thomas Smith Richard-
son, late of King-street, Sydney, banker, trading as “The
Sydney Deposit Bank,” has just paid in full one pre-
ferential debt for wages (£7 55.) and a dividend of seven-
eighthsof a penny in the £ on all proved concurrent
debts— i.e., to depositors.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Re “V.’s” pithy remarks
anent the Parliamentary agitation for the release of the
jugged N.S.W. legislators of bank and building-society
notoriety, allow me to raise my feeble voice on behalf of
that model “ bank” manager, Mr. Roderick Macnamara.
He could not have been so very bad considering that
Judge_ Windeyer only gave him seven years as against
Abigail’s five. Why not let Atm off the chain?—Yours,
H.V.A.
* * * *
One bank has made a general rule to refuse
accounts in names beginning with Silber, Silver,
Gold, Stein, or in names ending in stein, berg, sohn,
heim, or ein. Most fire-offices have, long ago, more or
less barred same.
* • * *
The stoppage of a Southern mercantile firm
will probably cause a reconstructed bank to drop a further
£9OOO over a big music firm.
* • * *
A leviathan money-lender of the land-boom
period has assigned his estate to the banks in-
terested. Six years ago, his cheque for £BO.OOO would
have been honoured ; to-day, his wife has £3OOO only,
and he has not a copper. Had he not been forced to
assign until May, certain settlements made on his family
would have then become valid and his wife would be
worth £50,000 or £60,000. This is one of the rare
instances where an admittedly cute Hebrew had a lot to
learn from pious Christians, who, though nominally
beggars, live luxuriously on the fat settlements
“prudently ’’ made on their wives whilst the sun shone.
* ♦ * *
When is the long-delayed meeting of Mercantile
Bank creditors to take place ?
• • • *
Standard Bank (Melb.) deposit-receipts were
quoted last week at “ seller, 4s. 10Jd.,” and Commercial
Bank preference shares (£lO paid) changed hands at £3.
How thankful we ought to be for the restoration of con-
fidence !
* * * *
As showing the extent of the softgoods trade,
three Southern firms jointly owe their bankers £635,000.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
A reconstructed Southern bank accepts a com-
promise of 6d. jn the £ on £53,000 from a firm of mer-
chants whose position has hitherto been considered
undoubted.
» * * »
Bad enough for a reconstructed bank to drop
£60,000 odd on one unsecured account, hut idiotic policy
to specially announce through the papers that the loss
fell upon the old bank.
* * * *
A particularly clever individual has successively
squared his indebtedness of £6OOO to one Southern bank
at 2s. in the £, of £4900 to another for 3s. sd. in the £,
and of £B4OO to another at 2s. 3d. in the £.
• * * *
A Melb. softgoods firm has “sacked” no less
than 100 of its employes during the last six months.
* * * *
A.N. A. mortgages amount to .£20,280 —of which
£14,740 are in default. The auditors say quite meekly
that the funds are invested in an unsatisfactory manner.
It really looks like it 1 Why even a board of savings-
bank commissioners couldn’t have lost more than two-
thirds of its money.
* * * •
About half the agents of the rival companies are
now writing to the papers, denouncing the new valuation
scheme of the A.M.P. Society, and signing themselves
“ An Old Policy-holder,” or the like.
• * * *
The 49th annual report of the New York Life
Insurance Co. shows that the assets of that vast institu-
tion are now over £30,000,000. The income for last year
was £6,967,000, and the payments—including death claims,
endowments, annuities, surrender values, commissions
and working expenses—£4,Bl9,ooo, making an addition to
the total funds for the year of over £2,000,000. The New
York Co. has now a surplus of £3,500,000 over all liabili-
ties, it has 261,992 policies in force, and the total of its
insurances is over £160,000,000.
« * • •
The Mercantile Finance, Trustees and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) has now been solemnly liquidating for
nine months, and there is still no sign of any report or
any information whatever. The liquidation is being con-
ducted by two of the old directors and one—this is
ominous—nominee of the Commercial Bank of Australia.
Which is strictly in accordance with the usual Melb.
practice, according to which the men under whose charge
the concern went smash are always appointed to investi-
gate their own conduct and present an unbiassed report
thereon. Though the bank is represented, the private
creditors have no say in the matter at all. The liquidators
are understood to be paid at the lavish rate of £l5OO a
year, and are assisted by a secretary at £6OO per annum,
and the liquidation is conducted in one of the most
gorgeous offices in Melbourne. The Mercantile Finance,
Trustees and Agency was the biggest single
smash in all the boom, that institution having
fooled away, on a rough estimate, something over
£2,000,000 in five years, with practically nothing to show
for all this stupendous wreck. Also, it was the father or
the uncle of a lot of small subsidiary concerns which
mostly flickered out miserably. Altogether, there seems
to he more need just now for an inquiry into this gigantic
smash than into anything else amid the general rotten-
ness of Melbourne. In particular, the debenture-holders
should insist on their right to appoint one liquidator, at
the very least. The two directors and the bank represen-
tative are an entirely one-sided arrangement.
« * * *
Some time before the boom, a Melb. man bought
a piece of land in a city street for £BOOO. He presently
sold it for £45,000, but the purchaser went broke after
paying £BOOO, and forfeited. Consequently the original
holder had recovered his outlay and still held the
property. Next he let it at £lOOO a year rental, and the
tenant put up a block of buildings which cost £15,000.
But the buildings wouldn’t let, and the gronnd-rent went
in arrear, and the lease and the £15,000 building were
both forfeited. And now the ground-landlord has got the
money and the ground and the building, only the revenue
from rents doesn’t cover taxes and repairs, and the
£15,000 building is a dead loss, and it is an open question
if he isn’t really poorer than he was at first.
« ♦ * ♦
The Q. Investment Co. has finally given its
“ cases ” best. It has abandoned the appeal to the Privy
Council against the decision of the Q. Full Court, which
borrowed Judge Windeyer from N.S. W., to upset Liiley,
C.J.’s, unendurable decision against MTlwraith, Palmer,
Drury and Co., overturning the jury verdict. The gist of
the action (which broke the Q. record) was the allegation
that the defendants, while mixed up with both theQ.N.B.
and the Investment Co., carefully transferred a lot of the
Bank’s bad securities to the co. The co. now finds
Itself unable to prove the allegation, and pays all costs,
which may be guessed at thirty thou, or thereabouts. It
doesn't always pay to go agin the Government.
• * * •
The Bulletin ventures to suggest that a really
well-managed finance Co. would do well in Melbourne
just now. The banks lend on overdraft at 7 to 7$ per
cent., and there is practically no medium between them
and the Hebrews, who won’t look at anything under 100
percent, per annum.
* • • •
A certain Northern trade-information firm was
lately bluffed into privately paying a lot of damages to a
man, whom they had reported to be “ a bad mark."
After receiving the boodle, the “ bad mark " kindly in-
formed the milch cows that he was an unoertiflcated
insolvent in every Australasian province. The gentleman
shortly departs on a lengthy pleasure trip.
• • * *
One of the charges brought against Mr. R.
Hope Atkinson, of the “ Monster Property Consultation,”
is that, in return for £2OOO subscribed by a confiding
public, he distributed certain useless scraps of land in
various dead and gone localities, ihe whole lot having
been bought in haste the day before the drawing for £250.
According to the statements made for the prosecution,
£l2OO went In advertising, £3OO or £350 in Mr. R. Hope
Atkinson’s private expenses, £250 in prizes, and the bal-
ance is not definitely accounted for. The energetic
promoter is also reported as having acknowledged (hat
the value of (he prizes was “ somewhat boomed.” How-
ever, it wouldn’t be the first time that £260 worth of
scra-gy allotments have been “boomed” to represent
£2OOO.
« • • •
According to the Police-court evidence tendered
In the Atkinson case, 97 of the prizes distributed consisted
of Hawkesbury allotments valued at ss. each. The rest
of the prizes were mostly allotments in remote railway
suburbs at 50s. or 60s. each, and the biggest was a scrap
of land valued at £l2 10s. The ss. allotments had never
been surveyed, so that the lucky winner would probably
be unable to find his two-half-crowns’ worth of territory
if he looked for it. A large number of ticket-holders in
Mr. Hope Atkinson’s sweep, who keep writing to The
Bulletin to ask where their prizes are located, will please
accept this intimation for what it is worth. The case has
yet to be fully threshed out in the Supreme Court.
• * * *
Bill Adams, Broken Hill Howell’s brother-in-
law, has arrived at Coolgardie, in the interest of the
Broken Hiilites, who have secured claims in the 90-Mile
district.
• • • •
A few weeks ago Bayley’s Reward declared <£l
div. on a capital of £24,000. It now announces a div. of
4d. on a capital of £48,000. For decency’s sake they
might have made it sixpence.
• • * •
Manager Begelhole leaves Bayley’s owing to a
row with Syl. Browne’s nephew, Everard. He is to be
banqueted by the local miners.
* « • *
Coolgardie telegraph-line opens at the end of
June. Coolgardie town-frontages are quoted up to £9
per foot. At Hannan’s wages-reefers struck for crib-time
allowance ; the owners resist. Things on the Murchison
quiet; many claims waterless.
• * * •
Denny Driscoll, who for years travelled northern
N.S.W. in the whisky Interest, has some good shows at
Coolgardie which with a water-supply will, he says, be
the richest field in Australia. He and mate bring back
241 b. gold, cot in a fortnight’s work at Kurnalpi.
• • • •
Arthur Baker, finder of the boss nugget at Kur-
nalpi (W.A.), is a well-known prospector of Copeland,
N.S. W. Baker seldom worked for wages, and is described
as a persistent fossicker.
• * • •
The recent Coolgardie rains were greatly exag-
gerated.
• ♦ • •
Bayley’s No. 1 South is always striking rich
gold. But does it ever bank any ? Bulletin strongly
advises all but pure gamblers to steer clear of Bayley’s
and all its belongings until much more definite informa-
tion is available.
• • * •
Here is another version. Dear Bulletin, —A
few facts re Murchison as an offset to the groundless
“skite" now prevalent. This field is simply stiffening
out. There are not for a distance of 10 miles round Cue
and Day Dawn 50 men employed on wages. Not one-
tenth of the reefs now being prospected go down to water
level (80ft. to 100 ft.) With one or two exceptions every
claim is lying idle, labour-exemption having been granted
In some cases—for instance where the D. Dawn push are
interested—for as long as seven months. The Cue public
battery is hung up. Perhaps this last item is the most
damning evidence of the value of the local reefs in the
vicinity.—Yours, Robert Sutton, Cue. Murchison (W.A.),
10th March, 1894. The Bulletin will shortly hear fully
about the Murchison from an old contributor.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Carbnuld, referring to Hannan’s Hill mine,
Coolgardie, says—“ Time enough for machinery when
mine is thoroughly opened and more payable ore shown.”
Like talk would have fitted the Earl of Hopetoun, Hill-
grove.
♦ * * *
Why advertise the Westralian Day Dawn G.M.
Association prospectus? If the shares are all applied for,
why spend hundreds in advertising? The reports are
numerous and satisfactory, though, as a rule, very short.
Seeing how prominently the Broken Hill crowd are con-
nected with the scheme wonder is expressed at the
absence of the reports of a well-known man who has,
heretofore, invariably done their work. Did he report,
and if not, why not? Writer regards this prospectus as a
proof of the present impossibility of floating (in the
ordinary sense) any mining concern of great dimensions.
* ♦ » »
Robertson, formerly manager of the Homeward
Bound, Yalwal (N.S.W.), has gone to Coolgardie to
manage for the M'Cullooh syndicate.
• ♦ » *
Bayley’s Reward reports contradictory. First
we are told the reef at 225 ft. level was as rich as in any
other part. Then, after the boom has faded and shares
go to 205., that the manager estimates the reef at soz.
Again, months ago it was declared that a plug was put in
the chamber at 225 ft. to keep the water back—a strange
proceeding where water is as good as gold; now it is
stated that the reef itself gives no water.
• • » *
Reefing claims are being taken up in dozens at
Kurnalpi, the scene of the latest rush. One man, says a
Bulletin correspondent by last mail, mid £l5O for leases
during the week. Most of the alluvial ground has been
pegged in the hope that leaders or reefs will be struck by
the diggers.
* * ♦ ♦
The police-magistrate at Wyalong “ fears star-
vation. poverty and crime.” There isn’t much starvation
without poverty, as a rule.
• * * *
N.S.W. yields about 10 per cent, of the gold pro-
duct of Australia. From newspaper-descriptions of rich
gold discoveries all over the province a stranger would
imagine it vielded all but 10 per cent, of the total.
• * * *
Peak Hill Proprietary declares its second fid.
div. Mine promises, writer is told, to keep it up at
five or six week intervals, always granted water.
» * • *
Things have again lapsed into depressing
quietude at Hill End.
• * * •
Kiandra prospectors seeking State aid to drive
a tunnel under the basalt—a work for which it might
reasonably be given.
* * * ♦
Another rich leader found at Mount M'Donald.
Small veins in hard diorite is the field’s feature. Hong-
kong Co. have dropped some £20,000 there, and are again,
it is said, preparing to tempt fortune.
Wyalong already showing signs of distress.
Baker’s Creek, 430 tons for 821ozs ; West Sun-
light, 390 tons, 1220z5.; Sunlight, 575 tons, 2240z5. Looks
as if the two latter will only be wages mines.
* * * •
The alleged opal buyers at White Cliffs seem-
ingly decline to take risks. Alt want to act as agents.
* * * ♦
Melb. owners talk of pulling their houses down,
to save taxes.
Berryman and party, working on alluvial lead,
cleaned up 1220z5. 9dwts. at Forest Reefs (N.S.W.), last
week. Dirt averaged nearly Joz. per load.
• • • •
A shareholder in the Rutland Flux Co., Broken
HIM, wants to know why it has gone in o It (nidation,
seeing that the Tarrawingee Co., which ■ double the
distance from the mines, is still paying diva.
• * * *
“ Excitement at Canowindra (N.S.W.) re the
finding of a rich shoot in the London reef, expected to go
50oz. per ton." The writer will try to keep 000 l until,
say, 50 tons are broken, and will then wager they donb
get 25000 z. If they do, that’s the time for Canowindra to
become excited.
• • • •
Sir Walter Scott mine, Cangai (N.S.W.), re-
surrected by a newspaper par. Writer had quite for-
gotten it, and the public had let it lapse into quiescence.
Great things were foreshadowed by reason of ihe Lock-
wood Chapple-cnm-Campbell process. Perhaps Treas.
See would say whether his faith in it is undiminished by
the £4OOO said to have been spent.
• • * *
Mt. Gabon, 258 tons, 920 z. • shareholders are
consoled by a report that the machinery works well; also
the aeripl tram.
• • « •
Broken Hill returns, week to March 29—r Pr-
oprietary, 10,145 tons ore, gave 965 tons bullion, with
267,8700 z. silver; Block 10—46 tons ore, 11 tons bullion,
77260 z. silver.
* « • •
Capt. Rogers, the ancient Bingera (N.S.W.)
diamond monopolist, is being floated into a co,, capital
£250,000, out of which he takes £2oo,ooo—if he gets it.
* • * •
Gibraltar, Adelong, has had a good crushing—
-5890z. from 143 tons, with 200 oz. more expected from
pyrites. The mine looks splendidly.
• * * •
Randt Jan. returns: 149,8140zs. —biggest yet
reached. No reefing field compares with it. Tonnage
constantly increasing ; average yield, just over 9dwts.
• » * »
At last the Etheridge has a div.-paying mine.
Nil Desperandum—2oo tons, 4740z5. Div. £5OO. Worked
by local shareholders.
• * • •
Vic.’s total gold yield to the end of ’93—
58,772,5550 z. ; value, £235,090,220. The total Vic. pro-
duction of no other metal amounted to a million. Tin,
£682,320, comes second.
♦ * * *
Victory, Charters Towers, 395 tons from No. 1
shaft for 5900 z. ; Stockholm tributors, 144 tons,. 2030 z. ;
Eastward Ho tributors, 62 tons, 1270 z. Brilliant gives a
3d. dividend. At Gympie, N. Smithfield paid 6d. from
213 tons, 780 oz. ; Phoenix P.C. tributors, 230 tons. 2400 z.,
div. 2d. True Blue, Croydon, crushed 1000 tons, expi oted
to go 3oz.
» * » «
Victory, Charters Towers, again on the div.
list. A welcome change to many Southern shareholders.
* * » ♦
Nearly every silver mine in Queensland is either
advertised for sale or in Queer-street.
• » ♦ •
Phoenix, Gympie, llOOoz. cake and div.
♦ ♦ « *
Mills United, the tonnage mine of the Towers,
for fortnight, 1850 tons—2oo6 ozs ; div. £7500.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Another 1500 oz. cake from Johnson’s Reef,
Bendigo, and 4s. div. for month. The co. has two
batteries and three mines, but the gold comes from that
next to Princess Dagmar. It is working two enormous
ore bodies—an eastern and a western leg- of saddle
formation. It has but 450 ft. on the line of reef, hut
that is enough to last many years, i.e., if the lower lifts
open well.
• • • *
Virginia Mine (S.A.): From battery, 85ozs. ;
tailings (cyanide), 2920z5.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Latest Queen Constance (Mareeba, N.Q.) crush-
ing, 1017 tons, 5670z5. Good enough if (here’s enough
stone. Mostly shareholders work on the claim.
* * • ♦
On 20th March the Lady Augusta, Eidsvold,
Q., cleaned-up 31 tons quartz, for 131 oz. gold—about 4oz.
sdwt. per ton. Total for quarter ended 31st March: 74
tons quartz, 381 oz. 17dwt. gold—about soz. 3dwt. per ton.
The Empress abaft is down nearly 500 ft., and the manage-
ment talks about “cross-cutting for the Augusta reef."
* * • «
The world smiles at Dowell and his friend,
Streeter, of London, the diamond-expert.
• • • •
New Red, White and Blue, Bendigo, is im-
proving. Quite time ; for, if this and other local mines
slump, what's going to keep LanseH’s splendid 105-head
batterv running?
* * • *
The late move to boom Collman and Tacchi’s,
Bendigo, has collapsed. Small crushings went ISdwts.,
and shares rose. Then many managers went down and
accurately concluded that it was a narrow shoot.
* ♦ * *
Dibbs must either abandon the Mining on
Private Property Bill or fight the Legislative Council,
which has again emasculated it. If he does neither, he
will forfeit the miners’ vote throughout N.S.W.
* » • »
An all-round reduction of a shilling a day posted
at Junction Smelting Works, Port Adelaide.


TfctWh.ieHorvCellirJ
y§
Edi nburgh.
The OldßlervdL
Whisky
Horse
Cellar
WHI'
DIRECT «OM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLOW
Vatubid SCOTCH MALT
P'f‘3
IP>>
m\\
m
iJlMmjMi
V'M
Ml
MfiMint
m
71
fill'
MS*
*
m
L'ymiiiHj'i
«
*
a
•tv
IDliii
Mill
•tllll
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston Sc Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
WATSON’S
DUNDEE -■ -
■-■■■■■ ■■■ WHISKY
—IS THE
BEST IN THE MARKET.
Personal Items.
Premier Patterson, proudly: “We law-
makers.” Hum! The law is an ass.
Dean Macartney, of Melbourne, will be
95 years old on Tuesday next (April 10).
A brother of the late U.S. General Sher-
man is a small farmer in Bringelly, N.S.W.
Wanted for N.S.W. Impartially - paid
military forces.
Even the worst man has some redeeming
trait. Jabez Balfour, it is alleged, took a cold
bath every morning.
Dr. Marmaduke Rose is a better preacher
than any in the Patterson Cabinet. 1 acts like
these make one think hard.
A Sydney suburban solicitor and a medico,
brothers, named Cromwell, claim to be direct
descendants of the Protector.
David Gaunson now appears in Melbourne
courts shorn of his moustache and characteristic
beard. Another change of front.
•In accordance with the eternal fitness of
things, a notedly-impeounious Australian poli-
tician has a nephew who is a bailiff.
Gov. Duff’s presence at a country show or
entertainment costs N.S.W. Railway Department,
on an average, between .£BO and .£lOO.
The “Cabbage Garden” Ambassador,
Reid, has already been described, in London, as
“a fluent wind-bag, but no diplomatist.”
An ex-clergyman, who was employed as an
agent by the New Australia projectors, is said to
contemplate establishing a colony in Paraguay on
his own account.
’Tis about time that Lazarus lost his role
of typical poor man: he at least had a bed. N. B. —
Oh further inquiry we find that it wasn’t Lazarus
who had the bed.
The Princess of Wales is said to be utterly
broken-down at the heartlessness of Princess
May. Alexandra’s human feelings have been cold-
bloodedly sacrificed on the altar of monarchial
expediency.
J. D. L. Mackay, who died in Bendigo
IVio.), the other day, of bronchitis, was the best
ecturer on geology in Victoria. He was a brother
of “ Uganda ” Mackay, and son of Dr. Mackay,
the geographer.
St. Fillan’s, erected daring the boom as a
country residence by Vic. Teetotal - Premier
Munro, and which attained celebrity as the hiding-
place of Colston, the Narbethong murderer, is
now a wine-shop 1
On dit that the recent munificent gifts of
millionaire Angas, M.L.O. (S.A.), to charitable
institutions are at least partly due to a clause in
his father’s will requiring him to disburse .£lO,OOO
yearly in such donations.
“Phil May, the Australian artist,” says
Melb. Herald. Phil narrowly escaped becoming
a Japanese artist; he was commissioned to goto
Japan for the Graphic, but the idea was aban-
doned at the last moment.
Mr. Jos. Symes, in the Liberator : “Like
the holy ones, we are in low water. If we cannot
get material help. . , we must very soon wind
up. . . .£2OO would more than cover our entire
liabilities, and about half of that is owed us by
agents.”
QuongTartis a likely
candidate for a seat in
next N.S.W. Parliament.
The anti-liquor, anti-
opium party push it at the
little man and the width
of his smile says “Yes.”
The new building of
the Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company of New
York, which is being
erected in Martin Place,
Sydney, is a solid witness
to the capacity, energy
and perseverance of
Major Z. O. Rennie, the
representative of the com-
pany in Australia. When
Major Rennie reached
these shores, some seven
years ago, the oldest and
wealthiest American life
office was hardly known
by name outside insur-
ance circles. That it has
become familiar and
popular is solely due to
his indomitable zeal and
pluck; and while he has
worked hard he has
fathered around him a
ost of friends who hail
with satisfaction his suc-
cess, and that of the noble
institution with which he
is connected. The early
years of Major Rennie’s
manhood were devoted to
the service of his country
in the war to preserve
the Union, and he holds
a handsome certificate of
merit voted him by the
General Assembly of
Rhode Island State in
1869.
Owing to the death of classical-professor
Kelly, of Adelaide University (.£lOOO a year), the
Council thought they would save a little money,
but the endowment-deed is so worded that their
attempt at economy is abortive.
The latest batch of Victorian justices of
the peace includes a Melbourne bootmaker, who,
it has been remarked, is also an Irish gentleman.
The story goes that somebody’s boots are round-
aboutly concerned in the appointment.
Banker T. A. Dibbs is said by his Premier
brother to have been born on the site of what was
known as the Tank Stream in early Sydney.
That makes the thirteenth prominent Sydney
citizen alleged to have been born there.
Mrs. Moginie, the little oratress who
broke up Brisbane “ Woman’s Suffrage ” meeting
by objecting to the word “lady ” as distinguished
from “woman,” is the daughter of that well-
known Sydney politician, “ Soapy ” Allen.
Dear Bulletin, — Be the “ three famous
ex-butohers in Australasian history : J. B. Patter-
son, Dick Seddon and Arthur Orton,” were not
John O’Shannassy and sheep-king W. J. T.
Clarke, father of the Baronet, also butchers? —W.
Before the theosophists see Claude Wright,
their Porkopolitan brother, in Australia, -£lOO
passage money must, it is notified, be paid in
advance. Whereat they squirm, the majority of
theosophists being those who cultivate spooks on
a little oatmeal.
The just-demised Canon Perks chummed
in lodgings as a young man with Stawell, after-
wards Vie. Chief J ustice. This converted Stawell,
who used to be a knocker-wrenching Mohawk
about Melbourne, with Redmond Barry as his
fellow Mohawk.
Salmon Wilson and canal projector M‘Coll
argued over Goulburn irrigation, in the White
Hart parlour, Melb. Said Salmon : “ Where are
the cultivators coining from ?” M‘Coll spilt some
sugar on the table, and asked, “Where do the
flies come from?”
The Adelaide Civil servant who has suffered
most by recent retrenchments is Dr, Patterson, the
Col. Surgeon, whose salary (,£950) has sustained
the cruel reduction of .£350 a year. He has been
nearly 30 years in the service, and is too old to
resume private practice.
A Sydney paper courteously describes a
certain local M.P. as “another miserable misan-
thrope ... a blotchy and splay-footed genius
who has about as much intellectual right to be in
Parliament as a dirty pig has to stand at ease in a
Dutchwoman’s parlour.”
F. W. Terry, erst Australian Star man,
is in the running for the post of superintendent of
the British section at Antwerp Exhibition. He
is warmly supported by Augustus Harris, and it is
pretty well understood that if an Englishman is to
have the post Terry will get it.
The Anglo-Australian cabletnan has a queer
taste in obituaries. Thepassingof every wretched
peer and princeling is chronicled, but the death of
R. M. Ballantyne, one of the most popular writers
for boys, was left absolutely unnoticed, as was also
that of Dean Merivale, the historian.
Wellington (M.L.) Press has been sold,
and the new editor announces that the paper is
going to turn over a fresh leaf, and will in future
speak of men and things “ without the intoler-
ance of the bigot and the ferocity of the wild
beast.” The wild beast is evidently the previous
editor.
It is said that Mrs. Burne-Jones, a staunch
believer in her husband’s genius, was indifferent
as to whether he accepted or declined a baronetcy,
but that the eldest son persuaded his father to go
for the hereditary “distinction.” Another evil
result of allowing your son to grow up as a
johnnie.
Louis Klisser, the only Hebrew on the Ade-
laide press, has left the Advertiser and gone to
Melbourne. On Good Friday he gob all the
church engagements, because, as the irreverent
leader of the staff remarked, had it not been for
the murdering Israelites, there would have been
no special reason for an observance of the day.
It is true that the son of a well-known
squatter is supplying shower-baths at Is. each in
Westralia; but it is not generally known that his
PHOTO. BY FREEMAN & CO.] GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
MAJOR Z. C. RENNIE.
bath-room is so ingeniously constructed that the
water is never wasted, but is in continual circula-
tion, on the principle that what’s good enough for
Smith ought to be quite good enough for Brown.
Garrick is an accommodating Q. Agent-
General. MTlwraith’s appointment of W. Forrest
in his place, without notice or reasonable excuse,
was an unspeakable insult; but Garrick sat tight,
and now that Forrest can’t go after all he sticks
to the billet. It is not only Christian to turn the
other cheek, bub it pays, dear brethren—it pays !
“Jews don’t eat pork” was the cry of
Tea-water Isitt at a prohibition lecture in Welling-
ton (Maoriland) Opera House one evening during
the recent lemonade campaign. And Rabbi Van
Staveren got up in the front seat with : “True, we
don’t eat pork, but we don’t prevent other people
eating it, and we don’t want to shut the pork-
shops.”
John Davies, M.L.0., who has turned 50,
criticised the appointment of N.S.W. Crown-
Solicitor Oolquhoun, on the ground that that
officer is over 60 ; but ex-Judge Manning, M.L.C.,
who is 83, rushed to the rescue, and proved that
men over 60 are the right sort for public appoint-
inents. When John is 83, that will be exactly his
opinion also.
'. . .
At latest advices, David Christie Murray,
the novelist, was being sued in London for wife-
desertion. Murray’s bad luck began the day
Harry St. Maur had him run in at Geelong, and
an Irish police-sergeant entered him in the charge-
,/'* < i c "' v tS5? (> ON _
nv# a..i Ca ' v> .)—
*.« (Zrf -T*-
' -* fAC1 > ,
<) . ,
V
EASTER MANOEUVRES.
sheet as “a littery man, imper-r-rfeckly eddioated,”
and it has stuck to him ever since. Also, St.
Maur’s bad luck began at the same time.
Sir Edward Poore, of Rushall, Wilts, who
lately died on the way from Coolgardie to Mel-
bourne, experienced strange vicissitudes in Aus-
tralia. At one time a wealthy mining speculator,
he was not long ago licensee of an hotel at Lady
Robinson’s Beach, near Sydney, from which he
retired low in funds. Never parading his aristo-
cratic identity, he was known as “Ned, the Pile-
driver.”
When Rosebery was in Australia he made
quite a “ pal ” of Bray, then S. A.-Chief Sec., and
through him the chirpy little man was knighted.
In the hope of maintaining the connection Bray
accepted the Agent-Generalship and went to Eng-
land, but so far, though two years have passed, he
has only received one formal invitation to Rose-
bery’s house. And now comes the melancholy
news that Bray’s brain has broken down.
It is whispered that the Duchess of York’s
mother —plump Mary Teck —is doing herself to
death on the Banting system. She has become
possessed of the idea that a near relative to the
Throne ought to reduce her adipose tissue, or
else she is setting a Spartan example to Princess
May, whose figure takes after her. The result is
very sad, they say. As a mountain of flesh Mary
carried herself well, bub Banting has doubled her
up considerably.
In Louis Stevenson’s new story, “The
Ebb Tide,” an unfortunate vagrant once more
turns up on a South Sea island with a tattered
copy of Virgil in his pocket. The dead-beat with
Virgil, Horace, or Homer in his pocket was run
out of all Australasian stories during the regency
of Henry Gullett, as having survived his period
of usefulness. Stevenson resurrects the curiosity,
locating it now at Tahiti, and pushing it by means
of syndicate arrangements right under noses that
snorted when Australian writers took the liberty.
Cardinal Moran’s enthusiasm over his
college cadets carrying arms with a view to their
future patriotic use recalls the “ hell-is-not-hot-
enough ” period of his Irish episcopacy. When
young Irishmen assembled for midnight drill, for,
as they thought, a patriotic purpose, the Card.
Cullen party, of whom Moran and Moriarty were
elements, discovered what the after-day renegade
Pigott called the “flaw in creation,” namely, that
hell was nob hob enough nor eternity, long enough
to punish the Irishman who raised his rifle against
England. What is patriotism, anyway ?
Ernest Giles remarked, on Friday evening,
that the photo, taken by David Lindsay and
purporting to represent “Queen Victoria Spring,”
was “as much like the spot as he was like the
Angel Gabriel.” When Mitchell visited the
junction of the Darling and the Murray, he stated
that he recognised the place from the drawing in
Sturt’s book. To which Sturt replied that “it
was the only bib of praise he ever received from
the Surveyor-General and quite undeserved. The
picture was drawn from his verbal description
when he was nearly blind, and had no resemblance
to the place it was alleged to represent.”
Hop Lee, convicted some two years ago
by a muddle-headed jury of the murder of a fellow-
countryman at Mt. Morgan, and released on a
petition of Central District (Q.) residents, has
settled down to his previous avocations. In the
opinion of all who knew the circumstances, the
whole affair was a put-up job on the part of his
countrymen to put Hop Lee out of the road. Hop
is also of this opinion, for he has renounced his
nationality, out off his pigtail, abjured the tenets
of Confucius, embraced Catholicism, and taken
onto himself the romantic appellation of Paddy
Moloney. His brogue is of the purest Canton
water.
Mrs. Langtry’s latest slave is Monsieur
Lobaudy, a young Frenchman who has inherited
enormous wealth, which he is flinging away in a
worthy of the wildest of the almost extinct
Jeunesse Dorte. He keeps a large racing stud in
England, another in France, and another in
Austria, the Fnglish establishment being managed
b 7 Hon. Cecil Howard. Lately Lebaudy s rela-
tives applied to the Trench courts for a Conseu de
Famil/e to prevent his squandering money as he is
doing, and impoverishing his estates to the pre-
judioe of his heirs. Now, it is said, he is to be
married to a young lady of fortune, and is going
to offer “The Lily” a parting present of a million
francs.
Religion—The
plaything of the
prosperous.
The Protector,
“ the 3. A. navy,”
is now in charge
of a gunner and
five wen, and was
towed round fo
her moorings the
other day because
Govt, could not
afford to buy
enough coal to let
her attain there.
Why the oppor-
tunity was not
seized to soil her
to Peixoto or Di
Mollo, of Brazil,
is a mystery.
“ Wo have now
imprisoned one
generation of
debtors after an-
other, bub we do
nob find that their
numbers lessen.
We have now
learned that rash-
ness and imprud-
ence will not be
deterred from tak-
ing credit; let us
try whether fraud
or avarice may be
more easily re-
strained from
pi viner it. Dr.
«T orc’sos.
Adelaide people, who knew Johnny Bray
as the cheerfnllest little fellow in Adelaide politics,
were much shocked at the news of his mental col-
lapse. The troublehas been coming ever since(some
say even before) he-left Australia, and this accounts
for the utter neglect of his duties as Agent-
General, which has so long been a mystery. The
cause is not known, for when here Bray was sharp,
shrewd, self-reliant, and not altogether unselfish,
while he never appeared to feel deeply on any
subject. He is comparatively a young man, just
midway between 50 and 60; he is wealthy, and,
so far as his intimates know, had no special reason
for worry of any kind. Jenkin Coles might suc-
ceed him if so inclined, but he is not prepared to
relinquish the Speakership or to break up his
home. He has 11 children, ranging from a married
daughter to a toddler of three. It is likely,
therefore, that Treasurer Playford will receive the
office and the .£l5OO a year He is a nice, graceful
person to let loose in a Court drawing-room, but
at least he would be at home in pushing the dairy
and vegetable products of the province. He is
expected to sail for London within the next few
weeks as, owing to the retrenchment of the
Assistant Agent-General, the office is now in
charge of a clerk. However, a baby could do the
work under ordinary circumstances.
YOU LOOK SICK!
YOU FEEL SICK!
YOU ARE SICK I
WHAT WILL YOU DO ?
IF YOU ARE Wisi
YOU WILL TAKE A COURSE OF
CLEMENTS TONIC.
The greatest renovator of a worn out system the
world has ever seen, positively and permanently
restores manly virility, to prove which evidence
is forthcoming from any quarter.
READ THIS CASE.
Mrs. J, Hepple, High-street, Lambton, who writes
on January 27th, 1893 For a number of years I
have suffered severely from liver complaint and an
affection of the kidneys, accompanied by severe
headaches, with excruciating pains between the
shoulders ; as a rule the pain was more severe on
the right side, extending right down to the groin.
I had such fits of dizziness that at times I could
hardly stand, and also I found my eyesight so
defective that I found it impossible to read or sew.
Whatever relief I received from doctors was only
temporary. My attention being drawn to
Clements Tonic by Mrs. Dent, a neighbour of
mine, I resolved to try it. Before I had taken
three bottles the dizziness and extreme weakness
disappeared, in fact I gained health and strength
daily. I continued taking it until I had used
fully one dozen bottles, and I am only too happy
to say that I feel as if I had become an entirely
new being. As this is the truth you can make
what use you like of it. I am only too happy to
recommend Clements Tonic at all times, as I am a
firm believer in its curative properties.—I remain,
yours sincerely, Mrs. J. Hepple, High-street,
Lambton, New South Wales.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
17 of this issue.
Cynicism—Truth in mourning.


CHEAP BUILDING BLOCKS
Close to the City of Sydney.
£2O each Grand Blocks at CARLTON. 8 miles fro>v
Sydney, 40 x 132. Gas and City Water. Asphal
paths. Easy terms. 14s. per Month.
£8 each Marine Villa Sites, MANLY BEACH. 10s.
Deposit, and ss. per Month; no interest. Free
Deeds included in the £B.
£5 each Capital Residential Blocks, ROOTY HILL.
10s. Deposit ; ss. per Month ; no interest. Free
Deeds; Torrens.
£lO for Blocks 50 x 150 at MERRYLANDS. £Bl
for Land 89 x 396; cost £65. GUILDFORD
Cheap Lots £5 each ; ss. Deposit; ss. Monthly.
£25 for Land 82 x 190, next Clyde Railway Sheds ;
£1 Deposit; 10s. Monthly.
If you want to make Money, buy now. Land will never
be Cheaper. Plans sent anywhere ; Post Free. Apply—
E. <U. V. BROUGHTON, Auctioneer,
301 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Established 187$.
a
'■m
m
PHOTOGRAPHY!
“ Gin a body meet a body cornin’ down the street;
Gin a body snap a body, need a body see’t.
Every laddie has a faddie, why then shouldn’t I?
To snap a face in public place, “A Cameret” I’ll buy.”
Price 355.
YOU PRESS THE BUTTON-WE DO THE REST.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues to
BAKER & ROUSE,
375 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
260 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
8 RUNDLE STREET ». ADELAIDE
—■AND—
-46 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
FOR
LASSITUDE,
TORPIDITY,
SOUR STOMACH,
INDIGESTION,
HEADACHE,
BACKACHE, &c.,
Take a couple of Fletcher’s Pills every second
night; they are a prompt and sure cure and give
certain relief.
FLETCHER’S PILLS are a quick, sure and
reliable remedy for all complaints arising from
torpid liver, indigestion, weak stomach, and im-
purities of the blood. They are prepared on
rational and sensible lines and do not contain a
particle of calomel, gamboge, or any drastic pur-
gative, but operate by perfectly natural means, by
stimulating the liver and increasing the flow of bile
and thus producing easy evacuations and natural
catharses without the annoyance and pain of
griping and purging.
Beware of the many harmful substitutes on sale
in many shops. None are genuine unless they
bear the signature of F. Moore Clements on the
outside wrapper. CLEMENTS TONIC and
FLETCHER’S PILLS have become such house-
hold words that imitations are frequently offered.
We contend that this imitation is the sinceresb
proof of their virtues, so see that you always get
the genuine, bearing the name and address of
P. M. Clements, Newtown, Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Advance Australia” is good. “Stay
Australian ” is better.
“Politician —A man of deep contrivance
or artifice.”— Dictionary.
The electorate of New Plymouth (M.L.)
has twice sent the local lamplighter to Parliament.
What does it profit a country to gain a
whole world of sugar, if thereby it afflict itself
with leprosy ?
Shiels’ epigram on Backbone Patterson’s
Govt. : “A yellow head with a green tail,” is
justifying itself.
The ballot may be “the thing.” Mean-
time MTlwraith is rainbowing Bananaland with
the coloured refuse of Asia.
A Tambo (Gippsland) hop-grower em-
ployed this season no hop-pickers but Chinamen;
this at a time when relief funds are begged for on
behalf of the poor local settlers ruined in the
January floods.
Glassey is the subject of a recent Brisbane
Courier interview. Glassey is getting on. To
anyone who remembers with what hostility the
Courier has hitherto pursued the Q. ex-Labour
leader, its sudden change is significant.
Many of the Adelaide unemployed refused
to crack stones for rations, but now, arrested for
vagrancy, 36 have gone to gaol for two months,
being unable to pay the alternative fines. There-
fore the metal will have to be broken after all.
The political field-glass shows a candidate
who doesn’t drink demanding a tax on drink, wh°
doesn’t smoke, a tax on tobacco, who has no land*
a tax on that, who has no income, a tax on in-
comes ; but where is the candidate who has no
morals demanding a tax on these?
The Argus opposes free universities:
“The State fulfils its duty when it provides
elementary education without payment. The
student is not worth his salt who is not prepared
to pay for his future education.” Of course,
mental and monetary ability always go hand-in-
hand.
N.S.W. Parliamentary candidate: “The
motto of Labour agitators is ‘Defenda est Carthago
—After us the deluge.’” Which recalls the
aspirant who quoted, “in the inspired language
of the poet, ‘ Facilis descensus Averni,’ which
means, ‘The voice of the people is the voice of
God.’ ”
A disappointed candidate for honours in
the dog department of the late Sydney Agricul-
tural Show went despondent to his country home,
declaring that his three defeats when a candidate
for Parliament did not deal him so sickening a
blow as that one official dispraisement of his fiat-
nosed pup.
A N.S.W. Civil Service high official lately
recommended to the head of his department a
youth of his acquaintance—not a relation —for a
junior clerkship. “It’s no use,” replied the
Under Secretary. “No one will be appointed to
this department unless he is connected with the
Minister’s electorate. ”
Feilding (M.L.) Star : “ Pigs will do 500
times more to advance the best interests of the
country than the most intelligent Ministry possible
on the Treasury benches. ” But then it takes an
intelligent Ministry to so fix things that every man
shall have standing-ground for his pig. A pig
can’t stand upon nothing. '
The candidature of the popular bookmaker,
Humphrey Oxenham, for Randwick (Sydney)
electorate is understood to be at least partly the
outcome of a personal dispute with Mr. Kinnane,
a ringman, who is also standing. Oxenham mayn’t
get in, but his personal popularity blasts any
chance Mr. Kinnane may have had.
One of the. N.S.W. Parliamentary can-
didates is a cheeky ignoramus who has com-
mitted to memory a highly rhetorical speech
which he gabbles parrot-fashion. For instance,
for “ relegated to well-deserved oblivion ” he says
“terrogated to well-served oblivium.” Then he
smacks his lips, and awaits the applause.
Fifty years ago, 40 per cent, of the people
of England were illiterate. Now the illiterates
are only 7 per cent,, and it is because of that 33
per cent, difference that the Church is presently
going to be disestablished, and the House of Lords
is tottering to its fall. It is only an illiterate
nation which reverences established churches and
Lords.
Adelaida, Advertiser asserts that' the
Goolgardie miners have invited that windy and
ambitious politician, Grainger, M.P. for Wallaroo
(S.A.), to represent them in Westralian Parlia-
ment. Grainger was much piqued because
Kingston wisely refused to appoint him Treasurer
last June, and was a deadly opponent of his
Ministry thereafter.
Rew Zealand Herald :
We would have a deep suspicion of any man who, in an
election contest, made much of character, either in be-
praising himself or disparaging others. Manliness is an
element of character. Every candidate should Pave the
electors to form their own opinion about his character.
If we could really have saints, no doubt we should be
better off than at present; but as a matter of fact, we
should only have men who pretended to be saints, who
would join hypocrisy to their other vices, and who would
have all the weaknesses of hypocrites 11
Happy Willis 1 The N.S.W. Mines De-
partment said it wouldn’t put an artesian bore
down alongside his fence in the West as there was
a Government tank a few miles off. But the
Assistant-Premier exerted himself, and at present
writing the bore is going down there, and though
it is by authority of the Works Department, it
will get there just the same.
Gladstone and Bowen, rich with splendid
country behind them, and possessing two of the
best natural harbours in Queensland, have been
at a standstill for 15 years. Their rivals, Rock-
hampton a,nd Townsville, the two worst ports,
have steadily gone forward. Cause—political log-
rolling, which started railways to the interior in
the country owned by political adherents of the
men in power.
“ The unanimous acquittal of Davies and
Millidge at Melbourne,” said a N.S.W. Upper
House legislator last week, “will go far to reassure
the public respecting the advantages of a jury
system. Two years more of the jury system we
have had lately in N.S.W. would so outrage the
sense of every right-thinking man in the com-
munity that an Act to abolish it would be carried
by acclamation.”
“ Such unjust legislation. . . could not
imagine anything more atrocious, or more unjusti-
fiable, or more cruel. . . that abominable and
despicable clamour which brought the bill into
existence. . , that most dangerous and fatal
yielding to the clamour of a particular class. . .
the thin end of the wedge for more vicious and
fatal inroads upon the rights of property.”— N.S.
Wales M.L.C. Dangar, on the Mining on Private
Property Bill.
The French are working their way into
Sahara, and their latest capture is the old,
mysterious city of Tirnbuctoo by the Niger. The
Tuareg Arabs, the former masters of Tirnbuctoo,
argued the point for a while, but they were
promptly civilised off the face of the earth with
machine-guns. By this capture France is making
her way towards the back-door of Morocco, and
by-and-bye she may annex that mouldering empire
from the rear.
President Morris, of Melb. Charity Organi-
sation Society, talks indignantly about “ the large
ffWfIUT
/H|
WEALLY !
JOHNNY WUN: "I weally don’t see—aw —anything in Nellie
Stewart to wave about. At least, she is not to my taste,
dontcherknow.”
JOHNNY Too ( disgusted ); “ Your taste 1 I am afwaid all your
taste is in your mouth.”
influx of persons from the other colonies, who
think they can do better in Melbourne than in
Sydney or Adelaide.” This ghastly delusion—
which originated in the local press, and has an
intimate connection with the theory of “returning
prosperity” —may soothe a small Tory meeting,
but it doesn’t affect the fact that the population
of Melbourne decreases every week.
Three by-elections, last week, show that
the new Liberal Government has gained popu-
larity in Scotland and Wales. _ In two Scotch
elections, Berwickshire and Hawick, Liberal seats
were retained, with an increase, in one case, of the
Liberal majority ; and in the Montgomery district
of Wales the Conservative member was replaced
by a Liberal. The Rosebery programme looks
likely to carry all before it at the coming general
election, so far as Great Britain is concerned.
Whenever the Queensland unemployed
come to the fore the people cast wistful eyes on
the Downs country and curse the day those fertile
plains were alienated. Mile after mile the railway
runs through magnificent country supporting
nothing but sheep and cattle. And where are the
settlers? Perched away on almost inaccessible
hillsides, hidden in dense scrubs, planted in
drought-cursed wastes—ever and always out care-
fully away from the great arterial lines built (O !
the irony of it) to promote settlement.
N.S.W. elector (to policeman delivering
electoral rights): “No, you don’t catch me sign-
ing my name for any of those blooming things. I
was had once, and it cost me .£16.”
The maunderings of “missionary” Reid
and Charles Tapper at that London Chamber of
Commerce meeting were not reported by the
English press. The Australian cableman wired
particulars of their precious speeches, as though
all the world had been listening to them. It
transpired that Reid’s “demonstration ” in favour
of Imperial Freetrade was a ghastly fizzle. Aus-
tralian “great” newspapers—and all “great”
newspapers, for the matter of that—have no
stronger raison d'etre than the giving of a glamour
of importance to the dreariest humbug.
By a singular mutation Rockhampton and
district, formerly the headquarters of the Separa-
tion movement, are now the stumbling-block in
the path to autonomy. Rockhampton would, of
course, indignantly deny such an assertion, but
when it is considered that the Rockhampton bunch
consistently support MTI wraith on every question
except that of Separation only, and that the only
hope for Separation lies in a determined united
opposition to the Southern Government on every
possible occasion, the truth of the statement
becomes evident to the dullest.
The A.N.A., locally known as the “ Pea-
cock-Barrett Reward Claim—No Liability,” has
been holding its annual Chatalkqua at Warrnarn-
bool. The annual report errs regarding Federa-
tion, which it seems to think the Association has
brought about. “It is now evident that the great
masses of the people are taking up the cry for
Federation.” Mere slime! Read “food” for
“federation.” That’s why the cream of the
working population of Australia is planking a
last “ tenner ” to get West to Kurnalpi, where
tinned beef is more easily won than political
rights, and where people hold a camel in higher
respect than even an M.L.A.
“ The prohibitionist is
a gaunt, evil-smelling, un-
happy beast, made angry by
persistent hunger after liquor
which he dare not drink,
and suspicious by uninter-
rupted raillery from moderate
men. Ex.
G. D. Clark, M.L.A.,
lately gladdened the hearts
of N.S.W. prohibitionists by
dilating on the prohibition
plebiscite in Ontario,
Canada. Hs has forgotten
to say that the plebiscite is
so much wind unless the
Govt, chooses to alter the
law, that, so far, it is merely
an expression of opinion, and
that itisonly the expression
of a minority’s opinion, since
the great majority of people
didn’t take the trouble to.
vote one way or the other.
The Chinese goose has
served up sauce for the
Yankee gander, and the
Chinese Government now
requires that Americans in
China must register names
and addresses, supply photos,
and be bound by all restric-
tions which the Geary law
imposes on Chinamen in
America. It is questionable,
however, whether this ukase
will affect the treaty ports ;
in any event, America will
not withdraw from the posi-
tion she has taken up if the
Western States can help it.
Curious to note, by the way,
remarks a Bulletin man
travelling, how completely
the U.S. have usurped the
title of the entire continent.
Even Canada, which com-
plains of the theft, in prac-
tice yields the booty; and
all along the frontier-line
“the Canadian side” is
never opposed to “the
United States side,” but
always to “the American
side.” And at Niagara there
are “the Canadian falls”
and “the American falls.”
An unconscious tribute to
the might of Uncle Sam.
Maoriland is fast getting into a had way
through the rush of Australian unemployed. The
country is small, the population is limited, there
are no new goldfields, and when Maoriland got its
finances straight it didn’t float the usual loan and
start a series of big public works, as is the Aus-
tralian custom in prosperous times. The country,
before the Australian influx set in, had simply got
into a condition in which it could find work for its
own population, but the inrush of a few thousand
Australians has knocked the labour-market to
pieces ; to the moneyless emigrant, Maoriland is
now almost as bad as Victoria or N.S.W. It is
only when an unhealthy boom is in progress—
—with a burst to follow —that any country can
absorb labour wholesale.
Apropos the Australian judges who lecture
and bully acquitted prisoners, the same practice
used to prevail in Maoriland, but it was almost
abolished by P. Buckley, now Attorney-General.
Buckley was defending a man before the irate
Judge Johnston, and procured his acquittal,
greatly to Johnston’s surprise and disgust.
Then the Judge spread himself eloquently
upon the case, pointing out that the mans
guilt was obvious, and that his discharge
was a disgraceful proceeding. Buckley stood it
all until at last his client was alluded to as
“ prisoner,” and then he got up and told the Judge
in plain Irish that the person in question was not
a prisoner, that the term was actionable, and that
the court’s slander was aggravated by defendant’s
being kept in custody to listen to unwarrantable
insults. That was the last time Judge Johnston
lectured an acquitted prisoner. /•>
Mr. JOHN RAE, Sydney’s first Town Clerk.
Aristocracy.—“As for purity ot blood—
philosophers and family footmen have doubtless
peculiar thoughts on this subject.”—Heine.
A certain Mr. Muddock read a paper on
Canada at the Imperial Institute recently. Aus-
tralia’s Tory press has overlooked Muddock,
whose lecture was worthy of the building in which
he read it, and of the Lord Mayor who was chief
listener. Muddock lamented a tendency on the
part of Canada to grow fond of the United States.
Some of the people were positively in favour of
annexation to that mushroom country —in spite of
the Lord Mayor’s snort of scorn—and Muddock
pointed out that a great mistake was made in the
withdrawal of British garrisons, as these and the
presence of a British gunboat in, say, the St.
Lawrence River were calculated to stimulate
Canadian loyalty to the Mother Land. This senti-
ment fairly “ brought down ’’ the Institute.
Australia should take warning from it. There
are plenty of Muddocks in Sydney and Melbourne,
for ever dreaming of British garrisons and gun-
boats to “encourage” loyalty. The finest lessons
in loyalty come from the cannon’s mouth, damme.
The Sydney Sunday Times has been
visited by one of those great inspirations which
attack it at short intervals. Speaking on the
“ New Australia ” question it says ;
For if unreasonable and unreasoning people, resident in
N.S.W., get the idea that they can go out on any mad
prank, and only have to howl to the Government to be
lifted out of their difficulties, that knowledge is not
likely to have a deterrent effect, but rather the opposite.
Let them get out of the hole in the best way they can,
and the hardships they suffer will certainly prove an
object lesson to others. If some assistance, however, can
be given to the women and children to return, let that be
done—not by our Government alone, but by the various
Governments interested.
This evidently means that the wives and children
are to be brought back, while their bread-winners
are carefully left behind in Paraguay. Therefore,
these women and children will have nobody to
support them, and when they arrive they must
either be gaoled as vagrants at the public expense,
or sent to the Benevolent Asylum at the public
expense, or be left to camp out in the Domain
with a newspaper between them and the winter
rains. There is something very brilliant about
this idea.
Among the books which the Salvation
Army recently burnt at Dunedin—“novel-burning
night,” by the way, is to be a regular institution
now —were the works of Walter Besant, Mark
Twain, Artemus Ward, Bret Harte, Miss
Braddon, Mrs Henry Wood, Mrs. Oliphant, Rolfe
Boldrewood, Clark Russell, Charles Reade,
Hawley Smart, Mrs. Campbell Praed, Rudyard
Kipling, Farjeon, Stevenson, and many others.
The readers of all these were also denounced, by
the illiterate boss-lout in charge, as “idolaters.”
This is the point which every successful religion
gets to sooner or later. It is humble and non-
resisting at first. By-and-bye, however, it grows
rich and becomes loud-mouthed and brutal and
blusterous and intolerant and full of hell-fire, and
would burn or hang all outsiders if only it had the
chance. Then it starts to go downhill till, after
a while, it dies of fat and bloatedness and savage
bigotry, and is forgotten. Salvationism is going
the way of all other creeds. It prospered while it
was lean and despised and persecuted, but now
the big drum is getting to be overfed, and the
trombone is fat and aggressive, and the capting
has a corporation on him, and Boothism has
become a gross and pimpled faith, and the vitality
of the movement is departing.


London, Thursday Kfcht-A horrible?
case, of lynching is reported to have-
occurred at San Antonio, Texas, United
States.
A white child having been murdered,
the mob seized a negress who had acted
as the child’s nurse, and who was charged
with the murder. They confined her in a
cask fitted with spikes, and then rolled
the cask down the hill, They afterwards
mutilated the woman, and riddled the
body with.shots /
A GENERAL LOOK-ROUND.
l/fAPQVfiR Tf/ZS
opt*
Captain Vos, of the barque William Mau-
on. has returned to Sydney after a lengthy
lecruiting-voyage to the South Sea Islands. yuring
me voyage the Sandwich Island boys,
mother with several other missionary boys
recruited off Florida, held church services
every Sunday. V. W e'U gathcr'ab
the river,” and other well-known airs in
their native language. “ The Sweet By-and
bye” they sang in English.
7/fvs outa^ s
off t
fy ff? /pfasshf'
"',finfaf A” a f
> far ffy '■
sdf
by lt)t
Hy e " JljG
Suyar /dhijt\
cf
%
,1
0/
n fl l * (Kr«
**W(?
4 c >■
f M,
l a /\ ,1
.^f-v 6
THE CHINESE SQUADRON.
News was received from the East by the
steamer Menmuir on Saturday that the
Chinese squadron had. reached Singapore,
and that two of the ships were under orders
I to proceed to Australia.
Ijncl fivfetavfo? ()ur
'defaces
Y 2 -pnef apet/u 0
/ate ft
• o
TEMPERANCE
DEMONSTRATION.
Tho second demonstration under this
auspices of the W.C.T.U. Convention was
held on Saturday afternoon in the fofm of a
procession of members of juvenile temper-
ance bodies, and a public meeting afterwards
in the Town-ball.
'c a
iT are yost(y ley
' at?d' fyush lz C<xaof) r you-9%


VIEWS PROM THE VICTORIAN SEAT OP WAR AT LANGWARRIN.
Tug- of -i*s t*/'.
rfiuf s tA
eJ/ T shvjv}
•n
e* 0-
f Q, V
V * X
our a<-7L%t dreamed (/n ccrm/o)
CotoTi e I TV/ce a. oldf-e ssc cL a J*e tat earn esf
u onol ~//iou.<fkT : joci words " do 7/?e. do~o/<?ozc*d <? hs
~2y~ /ok S/r/'Ae /ay/njr VAe odds dsha.il Ao.de. Vo Aay ybot. otaVV?
/he fene/*ct! ftom JfS.W?
*' I.
In A an/
( 6/1' )


WEST AUSTRALIA.
TpORTUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those who bought
P Land in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
years bark, and fortunes are waiting for those who buy
now in PEHTH (the capital city)and ALBANY, WEST
AUSTRALIA.
GRAND VIEW ESTATE, PERTH.
Splendid Building Sites.
£lO Each, £1 Deposit; 10'- Monthly. No Interest.
PERTH CITY LOTS,
From £4O each. Very Cheap. Easy Terms.
ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Grand position. From £l5 each. Easy Terms.
Title guaranteed perfect No forfeiture if ill or out of
work. Send for plans and Government map, showing true
position of '«id.
The INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
Limited,
(Established Perth and Sydney, 1885),
309 Pltl-st.., SYDNEY. W. J. Douglas, Manager.
sd
Wonderful Discovery!
nos E’s
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTTO JST,
THIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy lilight,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to 'those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, 3s. per Bottle.
jgP” Manufactured Solelyby 11. A. ItOSE, Elicmtst,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P@K!f;
#■
r \
r Vs v-% "
J
V V
\\
\ I
\w
AND
inppsEP
UPON By
IMITA-pOl^
Prints
on|y
WOLFEsScHNAPRS
Society
It has come to this. Some N.S.W. bush
school-teachers have to supply their pupils with
clothes, cadged from friends, in order to maintain
the necessary average attendance. And still the
cry continues —“ Settle the people on the land ! ”
it * *
In Melbourne, relates a Bulletin corres-
pondent, there lived two broken-mouthed sisters.
The father bought the elder a set of shop-teeth,
but, on account of bad times, the younger had to
continue chewing on her gums. Recently, the
elder girl died, whereupon the old man sent for a
dentist and requested him to remove the teeth
from the mouth of the dead girl and fit them into
that of the surviving sister; but the man of
laughing-gas and grinders refused. To this has
the boom brought the Marvellous City. The
inhabitants are too poor to buy even the teeth
accessary for chewing the cud of bitter reflection.
* • *
Dear Bulletin, —Last week you instanced
the indifference shown to Governors as evidence
of the Republicanism of Newcastle (N.S.W.). At
the local Arts (!) Exhibition that Gov. Duff went
there to open, one of the exhibits was a child’s
shirt securely guarded from desecrating hands by
a plate-glass case. An old dame—presumably the
proprietress—beamed on all who inspected the ex-
liibit, which bore the inscription :
Tub First Shirt
ever worn by
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF EDINBURGH.
Hats off ! There is a gold-mine in a proper use of
the royal dust-bin. The discarded pants of Albert
Edward would prove a greater draw than a circus
in some quarters. There’s money in it.— Misog,
“ Faustine,” of Sydney H.T..
meets the English reviewer’s query;
“ Why are so many men who marry
superior women unhappy?” with
the query: “ Why are so many
women who marry superior men
unhappy ? ” and rings off a string
of names from Socrates to Carlyle.
Both parties to the controversy
ignore the fact that there is an im-
mense body of married people whose
males and females, not being
“ superior,” are not of sufficient
interest to be set up in history, but
who fight like eat and dog all their
lives through.
# # *
The latest list of subscrip-
tions to the Syme testimonial con-
tains five amounts totalling .£lol7s.
Only one three-and-sixpenny sub-
scriber gives his name in full; the
rest are all anonymous. The £lO
man is especially anonymous, as he
gives not even an address. In this
respect the Syme testimonial is
unlike any other on record. Every-
where else the big subscriber gives
his full designation for purposes of
bold advertisement, but, in the pre-
sent instance, almost everybody who
give more than ss. positively refuses
to be identified, and neither he nor
his subscription can be verified even
with police assistance.
# • •
Stipendiary Addison, of Syd-
ney, in an attempted-suicide case :
“ A love affair ! There is no woman
worth it.” True—but you don’t get
to know it until you are 60 and have
been on the bench for 20 years. By
then you have begun to realise that
nothing is worth anything.
# # *
The story goes that a shy
bachelor-passenger, on board of an
Australian mail-boat, was lately
partnered by an unwitting steward
in a cabin along with “Captain
,” who, in the sequel, proved
to be a female-officer of the Salva-
tion Harmy.
* * *
“ Why don’t men marry ? ”
The women are not £oving enough.
Australian “society’s” chief topic just
now concerns the penchant a certain leading light,
when travelling, is said to have for a particular
Anglo-Australian liner, and the alleged kicking
of the favoured vessel’s skipper by hubby, when
the man of gold-lace called to see her recently.
# # *
Dear Bulletin, —What’s the matter with
the “ Philosophy ” of Brunton Stephens’ Alliga-
tor, “ Big Ben ” ? I think it about the most sensi-
ble of the lot;
He did his level best
To feed ; and all the rest
He took for granted.
# * *
Dear Bulletin, — A late Bulletin para-
graph recalls a similar (Maoriland) incident. But
allthe amorous Maoriland policeman’sclothingwas
not thrown out by the infuriated publican. Only
his helmet and boots followed him into the street,
and he had to strip a drunken man of his pants
and coat, and induce another constable to run
drunky in for indecent exposure, “yer Anner,”
and give a lien on a half-year’s pay to the publican
before he got his uniform back. By the way, the
publican found four watches, two purses, and a
brooch in the policeman’s pants, and has taken his
wife back on Ingoldsby’s Lady Jane principle—
pe., “perhaps she’ll catch us some more.” —Phiz.
* * #
The syndicate who run Monte Carlo
“pal” with most of the Continental papers, but
why on earth should the London correspondent
of some Australian dailies think it worth while to
cable that “ Sam Lewis has won £16,000 at the
tables”? Not one in a hundred Australians
knows who Sam Lewis is, and not one in fifty
thousand cares whether he won or lost; but the
allurement of the palpable advt. muy induce a few
lucky ones here to visit Monte Carlo when at
O’ ll *-- ,To such the writer would say that a three
seasons costly and bitter experience of Monte
Carlo never revealed a £16,000, or even a £6OOO
winner, and that Sam Lewis (who, by the way, has
many of the young English bloods under his
thumb) lost heavily during those three seasons.
But for the loan-business that comes in his way at
Monte Carlo, Mr. Sam Lewis would avoid the
tables as being the deadest of certainties for the
banker.
# * #
T n nr J,.„ Rennet! on renortera-
dames Gordon Bennett on reporters.
“Discharge any damned donkey who respects
anyone’s feelings.”
The Thomas will - case in Sydney has
brought to. light a new industry, one witness
describing himself as a ‘‘tracer of flitters” —
tenants who fly by the light of the midnight moon
from law and landlord.
WHAT HE WOULD DO.
PARSON: “No, my boy, I never read The Bulletin, and I certainly
never buy papers from boys who smoke cigarettes. Do you
know what I would do with you if I were your father?”
BOY: “No, I’m blessed if I do. But do you know wot I’d do if you
was my farder ?”
PARSON : “ No, my poor lad, what would you do if it had pleased Provi-
dence to place us in that relation to each other?”
B OY: “ Why, I’d take a dose of ‘Rough on Rats;’ that’s wot I’d do !”
A consignment of genuine Jordan water
has been delivered at the Jerusalem Cyclorama,
Melbourne, and is now being eagerly bought up at
fancy prices. There is an indefinable something
about this item which inspires a quaint negro
melody :
Brudders, are you listening, listening, listening?
Brudders, fall asleep and dream
Ob getting baby christening, christening, christening
Wid water from de Jordan stream.
All tell de truth, and nebber tell a crammer,
Jordan flows wid milk an’ cream ;
Jerusalem’s de city ob de Holy Cyclorammer
And water from de Jordan stream.
Bring de ole decanter, turney on de tap:
Baby is de bright sun-beam.
Glory hallelujah ! dowse de little chap
Wid water from de Jordan stream—
Der's big fish
Breedin’ in de Jordan stream.
Debbil-man is listening, listening, listening 1
Debbil pusson hides him face
When him find us christening, christening, christening
Ohilder wid the Sabing Grace.
Dribe de truth in gently, hit it wid a hammer—
Golly ! how de darling scream.
Jerusalem’s de city oh de Holy Cyclorammer
And water from de Jordan stream.
Bring along de ole tub, fill him to de brim—
Bless de moon and stars dat gleam !
Glory Hallelujah! makede baby swim
In water from de Jordan stream—
T>er’efrog fish
Breedin’ in de Jordan stream.
# * *
It was noted in Hobart police court re-
cently, during the hearing of an alleged embezzle-
ment-case, that while several witnesses, including
a lady, were given a filthy-looking Bible to kiss,
a clean, and apparently new specimen of Holy
Writ was produced when Henry Dobson (Premier)
and Mr. Simmons, a local solicitor, gave evidence
in the same case. Also, that although the clerk
of the court remained seated when administering
the oath to ordinary witnesses, he assumed an up-
right position when the Premier and lawyer’s
turns came.
* * #
That discovery of the missing will, in the
Surry Hills (N.S.W.) case, would have been im-
probable in a Sims and Pettitt drama. Which is
no evidence against the genuineness of the will.
The dramas of human life are constructed partly
by Chance, without the least regard for experienced
critics. Chance is an author who caters for the
gallery a good deal.
* * «
Tasmanian Mail states that a lieutenant
in one of H.B.M.’s ships lately at Hobart once
wagered that he would enter the Mosque of
Omar, in Jerusalem, in which is enshrined the
alleged original Koran, and tear from that book a
couple of its leaves; and despite the difficulties of
the undertaking he won his wager. Probably
true. It is just the .sort of wanton trick that the
usual gold-laced nincompoop has the intelligence
to suggest and the inconsiderate rashness to
execute.
« • *
Foreign scum and cheap labour are well
represented at Bairnsdale, Vie. Most of the
hotels have Chinese cooks, one a Japanese billiard-
marker, and Chinese are much employed all round
the district. The hop crops, the main product of
the place, are picked chiefly by the girls of Bairns-
dale, assisted by the Salvation Army, which,
strange to say, is largely composed of Hindoo and
African alleged converts. These latter sing
hymns and pray loudly whilst they gather in the
hops, and during this harvest have succeeded in
converting a number of respectable Bairnsdale
girls to their S.A. ideas. Hop-picking, previous
to Hindoo competition, brought 3d. a bushel;
now it has come down to and 2d,
A Coolgardie special to the Argus ;
“ Apropos of washing, I saw a curious sight—a
digger, quite nude, standing at his tent door, and,
with the utmost gravity, brushing himself all over
with a clothes-brush.”
A fastidious critic
of English, holding a
high position in N.S.
Wales Education De-
partment, wrote form-
ally to the Minister a
few weeks ago request-
ing that Acts should
be forwarded to the
Department for correc-
tion before being finally
printed, “as it is
almost impossible to
parse them in their
present state.”
« * •
A large shipment
of whisky and beer was
delivered at Melbourne
last week, and passed
through the Customs.
Importers have waited
as long as possible in
the hope that duties
would be lowered, and
now they are bound
to supply an exhausted
market. Unfortu-
nately, a raised tariff
has made no appreci-
able improvement in
the quality of local
whisky (it isn’t stored
long enough), although
it has stimulated the
production of the raw
stuff for mixing pur-
poses. There are very
few Melb. pubs, where
the “old Scotch”
doesn’t savour of match-
wood, and the match-
wood taste is the sure
indication of Victorian
spirit. The palate
giveth warning of a
headache in the morn-
ing. A burning in
the throat bad spirit
doth denote. The
whisky of renown bites
only when it’s down.
No liquor which is
good brings thoughts
of blazing wood. The
foregoing are simple
rhymes for young
drinkers.
Young man, if you order Hennessey’s
brandy and the dear girl behind the bar graciously
permits you to draw the cork from a fresh bottle,
don’t shake up the precious fluid before assisting
yourself to a nobbier. You have seen the bar-
maid do so, and you have accepted the old fiction
that she does it with a view to mingling the oil at
the top of the bottle with the spirit underneath.
As a rule she shares your mistaken notion, if she
thinks about the matter at all. Neither of you
knows that the shaking effects the desired result
in a reverse way. The oil is at the bottom of the
fresh bottle, if anywhere. Draw the cork ten-
derly, young man, and go straight for the topmost
drink.
# * *
Melb. papers were unanimously nauseous
in their eulogies upon N.S.W. Major-General
Hutton. The evening rags found that mere prose
was incapable of expressing all their feelings re
the latest calamity from Hingland. They wor-
shipped him in stirring, martial verse. An extract
from Melbourne Herald :
“ We don’t mind grafting like Trojans,
And doing our level best,
But we love a sharp eye to watch us,
And to hear a keen soldier suggest
What will make the Mounted Rifles
Drive the enemy out of the bush.
So a “ tiger ” for General Hutton,
The smartest man in the push.”
The Bulletin desires to improve on that poem,
which has been wounded in its hind leg and walks
lame :
There’s really no encouragement for
Sydney TELEGRAPH-boys to air their learning.
One of them ventured last week to write that the
ministers of the Auld Kirk in Australia were
“few and far between— rari nantes in guryite
vastos.” The waggish comp, thought it "was a
reference to Moderator George MacTnnes’s
escapade, and put it “ rari nantes in Georyite
nasto ” —which may be taken to mean there are no
flies on nasty George.
THE DIFFERENCE.
When the lawyer does some stealing
That is worth a twelve-month “ hard,”
He doesn’t go to Darlinghurst,
He simply gets dis-barred.
When a layman does some stealing
He doesn’t prison miss,
For the sentence of the court is
To be barred —without the “ dis.”
TIMI PIRIPI.
TEMPORARY INSANITY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Of course they will say, “ Insanity,”
The coroner and bis crew ;
“Temporary Insanity,”
God, when I’m as sane as you !
They’re madder far—the morgue men—
The coroner and his crew !
My life is not worth the mending,
And its easier far, this ending,
Than to kill my baby too !
Very likely Jim thought he loved me,
Very likely I thought so, too.
Was it a kind God shoved me
On the path of Jim’s life, think you ?
God thought that I ought to be tempted—
Very likely Jim thought so, too !
Jim was fond of me then, in a fashion ;
But we’re done with our pain and our passion,
And there’s but one thing more to do 1
Insane 1 Is there other course open ?
Is there anything else I could do?
If you had my darkness to grope in,
You’d be glad there was this thing you knew;
Sudden death—or a life on the pavement—
Is there anything else I could do?
So, the end of my sorrow and sinning,
And in the new life I’m beginning,
Could things be much worse, think you?
Dunedin, Maoriland.
MOONSHINE
Tny L A^ N J^S
WlTn
T*y (N^?i\t
BINO
M S^IMS*TT<^
WAJ/WARO Win*.
RoufmP K' p b
TrtATHWt^ANP ■
Sct'Tf ThaT K oV£ s
ThYl 'autPi.'.PS
Oj <?IM *NP C(J)V£ S •
pr;>v»«i
D.W.
We pity the volunteer soger,
Who fondly believes in his “ togs,”
But we scorn the Himperial lodger,
Who comes from the kingdom of fogs
To spread the dam teachings of swagger,
And glorify all that is sad.
The sight of his sword and his dagger
Makes right-thinking patriots mad.
A "tiger” for General Labour!
A groan for Himperial ‘‘gas ” 1
A curse on the well-polished sabre
That dazzles the eyes of the ass !
A fig for the set of a button,
And soldierlike faddle and fuss !
Leave gunpowder gospel to Hutton—
Democracy’s canons for us 1


TO THE LADIES.
It is generally admitted that you, ladies, have on
your shoulders the n.aponsUdlity of the household,
and the care - of providing for the welfare, at home,
of your husbands and the children.
You no doubt act up to the best of your abilities,
and yet there is one pertinent question which we
.should hke to askyou.
Do you give your children a drink
OUT OF THE TAP
when they are thirsty ?
If you do, you are running a fearful risk, especially
in the country, of bringing unwelcome visitors into
your home.
TYPHOID AND HYDATIDS
Are very prevalent just now in Sydney, and half the
cases are brought on by drinking unfiltered water.
Now, in making up your mind to purchase a filter
at once, there is just one thing to beware of—and
that is the old-fashioned Sponge or Carbon Filters ;
and one thing to remember—that since the water in
Sydney is deficient in lime, the best filter to buy is
A LIMESTONE FILTER.
Let nothing induce you to buy any other kind. If
you do, you will be sorry.
TOBIN i DAVIDSON’S “RAPID”
LIMESTONE FILTER is the best in the world.
It obtained
FIRST PRIZE
at the -late Chicago Exposition, and costs, in the
small size, only 10s. fid.
Only lOs. 6cl.
For 10s. fid. you can fulfil a grave duty, and dis-
charge a serious responsibility.
Order through your local storekeeper, or, if in
to.vn, call at our Show-rooms, 393 George-street,
opposite Royal Hotel.
A line from you will bring our illustrated circular,
telling you all about it, [Mention this paper, we
want to test its value.]
SOIjDSWORTH, macphebson & CO.,
393 George Street, Sydney.
Send ONE and 3 PENCE in STAMPS
(OF ANY COLONY)
And PURCHASE (Post Free) any one of the following Useful Reference Books :
Profitable Poultry Book
The Self-Educator Book
Comic Recitations Book
Ready-made Speeches Book
How to Play Billiards
Colonists’ Guide to Health
How to Train—Running, etc.
The Popular Song Book
House Painting and Papering
Whist and Card Games
Athletics and Gymnastics
Familiar Quotations
Character in Faces and Features
Letter Writer’s Manual
Character in Handwriting
Handy Book on the Horse
Handy Carpentry Book
Manual of Book-keeping
Also, the following Australian Yarns 9 Detective Stories, etc .
Geoffrey Hamlyn (H. Kingsley)
Eulalie (VV. S. Hayward)
Lost for Gold (Katharine King)
Botany Bay (John Lang)
Assigned to His Wife (John Lang)
Gold Hunters’ Adventures (Thomas)
A Study in Scarlet (A. C. Doyle)
The Sign of the Four ~
Light that Failed (R. Kipling)
The Right Sort (A. Kennard)
Out of Hurly-Burly (M. Adeler)
Elbow Room (M. Adeler)
Moina (L. L. Lynch)
A Slender Clue (L. L. Lynch)
Crime of Xmas Toy (H. Herman)
Broken Bonds (Hawley Smart)
False Cards ~ ~
Play or Pay ~ ~
WARD* LOCK k> BOWDEN, Ltd* (and all Booksellers), MelbouniS*
GAILY THE
TROUBADOUR”
The troubadour has long since passed into history,
but his sweet guitar still lives in fact as well as in
memory.
We have just received about a Dozen of the famous
pANDANGO
Guitars.
They are remarkable for the purity and richness,
of their tones, for their strength and for their low
price. A good one for 50s.—better ones up to U 7 7a.
and every one guaranteed.
SPLENDID STOCK OP MUSIC
FOR
GUITAR or MANDOLIN.
Call and Inspect our Magniflcent Stock of
PIANOS AND ORGANS!
The finest choice in the city, and the best for the
money. Most Liberal Terms—CASH or CREDIT.
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
From Melb. War Cry :—
Staff-Captains Blanche Cox and Margaret Allen have
Visited Brussels. They presented Major Tait with a
rooster and a hen as a start for a farmyard at the Home
of Rest.
•
Sydney Evening News :—
"OTILL kind Gent. lend married lady £2, returnable
W by arrangement. Urgent, P. Office, George-
street West.
The usual numerous advts. for “babies to adopt”
not noticed, “ through pressure on our space.”
• * •
“It is the intention of his Excellency
Lord Hopetoun to remain at his post as Governor
of Victoria till the expiration of his term, which
arrives in November next. It is, however, also
probable that his Excellency will consent to con-
tinue to discharge the vice-regal duties until some
time in March, 1895, as his departure from Vic-
toria at that date would enable him to arrive
in England at the most seasonable part of the
year. As a matter of fact, his Excellency is nob
a good sailor.” — Melbourne Paper.
Under-secretary Johnson, of N.S.W. In-
struction Department, has always been a strong
advocate of married women with husbands living
being retained in the service, and many a valiant
battle he has fought, in their behalf, with sundry
Ministers who have held opposite views. Hence
the enthusiasm with which the married lady-
teachers (their husbands diplomatically con-
curring) entered into the recent abort! ve Johsoti-
testhnonial movement. To be the husband of a
State-school teacher is about the easiest of profes-
sions.
* * *
It is absolutely certain that the presence
of a boiling down establishment has caused, and
causes, death in certain cases. According to
police ethics you can shoot the man whom you
suspect of coming to rob you. Why then should
you not be let shoot the boiling-down men?
# * *
The swag woman is becoming one of the
sights of Maoriland. The other day two of them
struck the little town of Carterton. They were
both new arrivals from Australia, and were
“young and respectable-looking.” Each carried
a huge bundle on her back, and they were
plodding manfully up country looking for billets
as domestic servants,
« * m
The lady whose alleged paramour was shot
by her husband, in Tasmania the other day, at-
tempted to commit suicide, but failed. Then the
usual dunder-headed Bench ordered her to find
surety, in the sum of .£50, that she would keep
the peace for six months, said Bench being
evidently of opinion that one surety in .£50 is the
best remedy for a mind diseased. Thereupon a
showman offered to supply the required security
provided he was allowed to exhibit the lady in
his show, as compensation for the risk and possible
loss. As it happened, another guarantor turned
up, so the offer wasn’t considered. Otherwise this
country might have been staggered by the afore-
said Bench handing over a lady for exhibition in
a menagerie as a guarantee that she wouldn’t hang
herself within the space of six months.
The latest Sydney swindle is worked by a
tailor man who calls round and takes orders for
suits, measuring you carefully, collecting ss. or
10s. deposit, or as much more as he can get, and
promising delivery in a week. At the end of a
fortnight you go to look him up, and find at the
address given a solemn-faced undertaker, and no
tailor within streets of the place.
# • •
T. B, Muntz, the acquitted Mercantile
Bank director, was banqueted by a few of his
civic friends the other night, and Muntz, “in a
feeling speech,” said that “if the directors of the
Mercantile Bank did wrong, then the directors of
the other financial institutions of Melbourne had
done wrong also.” It’s quite certain that the
directors of other institutions did wrong, and that
several dozen of them ought to be in gaol. If
Muntz can find comfort in this assurance he is
welcome to the same, but most people, being in
Mr. M.’s position, would prefer to make a distinc-
tion between directors who did wrong just a little,
and those who did it very much.
« * *
A necessary alteration in probate law is
the compulsory registration of all wills wherein
the testator leaves his substance away from his
immediate relatives.
* * *
Any evening of the week, a good-looking
seance woman in Sydney claims she can command
the patronage of a Supreme Court Judge, five
banisters, one bishop, and fifteen civil servants
of high grade. The Judge, who some time ago,
sentenced a man to be hanged, invited a com-
munication from deceased, bub was disappointed.
# * •
Vic. religious paper :
As an example of the good fruit which the Rev.
ten years’ ministry has borne, it is gratifying to
note that the population of the parish has increased from
3500 to 7000.
• * •
Very influential Victorian Catholics are
savaged by the ecclesiastical authorities insisting
more and more on teetotalism. A church paper
now goes in hot, even against “ Loight Refrish-
menfc.” Brewer Fitzgerald is ebullient.
* * *
Spagnoletti : “I studied Melb. restaura-
teur de Freitas’s ‘ Eight o’clock Rush’—free meal
to the destitute—one night this week. Ninety-
one partakers. Nor were they loafers. A judi-
cious man is employed to weed such out and dis-
tributes tickets to the mass on the kerb. No, the
complaint is age, and yet the average is about that
of Mr. Chamberlain, who is only working up to
the topmost political rungs. The toiler is used
up at 50.”
# # *
“The battle has commenced. It is that
noble animal built in the image of the Lord of
Creation v. his female end.” This is an extract
from No. 1 of the Australian Woman, “the
official organ of the Woman Suffrage League of
N.S.W.”
* * *
Some Australian troops, who had been
conducting certain military gyrations, held a
smoke concert the other night at an hotel near the
theatre of war. Three of the imported British
officers condescended to be present, but didn’t
mingle in any way with the crowd. They had
their own table, which was separated by a neutral
zone from the rest of the company, and no private
was allowed to approach it under any considera-
tion whatever. Also they brought with them
their own grog, their own special bottle of water,
and their own tumblers, so that they might be
preserved from association with the common
colonial publican, and wouldn’t need to hail the
same waitah as the ordinary private. Then they
looked through a supercilious eye-glass at the
passing show, and drank in a haughty and bored
frame of mind, and said “haw’’now and then,
and left early.
* * #
Sydney Sunday Times runs a “ Free
Medical Advice ’’ column for the benefit of people
who are too poor to pay a doctor. The “ advice ’
is generally to “consult your own family
physician”—out of four clients in last Sunday’s
issue two were advised to see their own physician
immediately. The other kind of advice —the Times
only keeps two kinds on hand —is to wash your
head with borax in the morning. It doesn’t take
much learning to run a free medical advice depart-
ment.
# * *
Apropos the falling-off in the marriage-rate
last year, a Melb. paper says: “Men now wait
till they are bald before they marry.” Nonsense !
Parkes insists that “ Federation is in the hair.”
Victoria, thou favoured spot, by Hopey’s presence blest,
Continue till our autumn comes again 1
Gaining vigour from the weakness of thy noble ruler’s
chest,
Protected by the rolling of the main.
In antipodean seasons lie a pair of cogent reasons
For a careful prolongation of his reign.
The heartless Northern winter, with its breezes icy cold,
Hath virtues not apparent over there ;
It can keep a canny noble in the distant land of gold
Whilst the trees of Merry Hingerland are bare.
And the unrest of the ocean stimulateth his devotion
To the people long confided to his care.
For the cool Australian autumn, which is Britain’s balmy
spring,
He will wait and watch—a sentry at his post;
Nor whoop for “Home” and beauty till his birds begin
to sing,
And storms refrain from raging off the coast.
To his subjects he will stick till the dread of being sick
Has ceased to haunt his slumbers, like a ghost.
Long life to the Equator—may the world be ever round 1
How many happy hearts go pit-a-pat 1
Five extra months of Hopey to be spent on foreign
ground,
Because the good old Universe ain’t flat.
Let us quaff a brimming rummer to the winter which i g
summer,
And thank a thoughtful Providence for that.
KISMET
Jn [ \ HRPGCa GAft* PAjJfcP A<sP s>aw
J •*• frpnj QAiiy PfeCK^tp
'sa uT WAN T HOSfe •* T« y T M Ht 7RAV*U-tP otß^
&r CHIUPHOOPS CHAFING CHtCK.tP
HOPt L‘p on HtWt-NJ
HtNttFOPjM T° JOUP ' Nt '( FK<t
Rowing |o POP<it K.'np jfACTtS
ptST'^V
/
J|s TrtoviGM gagoFP oof 5v
cge >/
Mis f/m MpptAf^pjA^^o^
A#Ajt wiyrt tyes op HAztu H«t U
suß.p*€P AND pANCtp W, T
lAGGHInG
HASTICI' at THi^RsSJj?^
<.HtG* ' <|
[gfc AwA'f WlfH
PAQfc j||P
CUNC.S
Ofs His PiiC-K^
BtvYlTCrt^cNY
FAct .
W. w. P.
N. sydney
Answers to Correspondents.
Ifo notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“G.T.K.” ; Care of Bulletin Office “Paul
M.” : Hope to see you when you come.... “ E.M.V.”
(Wyalong): Inundated with applications. No opening.
.. “Trotter Bethune”: A really charming yarn, but
far too hot to touch.., “ Waif ” : Please send somi thing
printable “Sybarite”: Thanks “L. 8.” (Clon-
curry): Thanks “ Tomel ” (Maoriland): Glad to hear
from you... “C.R.M.”: Over captious. ..“Warren” :
thanks .. “C. J. Mason ” ; Remedy simple: Let no jury
ever find a man guilty of a capital offence unless they
would be prepared to take his life with their own hands.
“ Glen.” : Reports as to the circumstances attendant
on the separation of Grey from his wife are so various and
mixed that the subject had better be left a10ne....
“M.M.”: Then why don’t clairvoyants do something
really useful and indisputable? For instance, point out
the site of Attilla’s grave under one of the tributaries of
the Danube, wherein the spoil of plundered Rome lies
buried. Or, the hiding place of the ransom of the Incas,
which was being conveyed for their liberation when the
news of their murder reached the messengers, who there-
upon buried the treasure “W.0.D.”: Thanks....
“ Alderby ” : Lacks pith ; pop it into Sydney D.T.’s cur-
rent controversy “ Kiejoe ” : Our opinion is that you’d
better send the stock of little pieces after the galley
“M.A.S.”: Wretched attempt at a parody “Rou’se’-
about ” : Re-write with pains and minute description
“ J.D.P.” : Too long for point and interest... “ G.H.P.”:
Jog-trot jingle; spur,your Pegasus.... “J.S.” (Too.): Will
consider “E.J.8.”: May use; be brief “O.B.”:
Fancy and facility; no interest... “ F.V.W.”: Dim,
agricultural merit... “ Q.” : Limps like a broken-legged
oyster “Octopus” : We have killed it with our little
hatchet “ L. 8.”: Quite unsuitable “Coteswold ”:
The wail of an average cat on a commonplace roof is just
as new and striking ... “G.P.J.”: Reads like Tennyson’s
“Vastness” strained through a small intelligence.
“E.J.”: Thanks....“H.E.G.”:(l) There is no collected
edition of Barcroft Boake’a poems. (2) The frogs asked
Jupiter for a king. In derision, he threw them a log,
which did no harm, if no good. They were not satisfied,
and asked for a better monarch. He sent them a stork,
which gobbled them up. They croaked for another
change, but Jupiter said “No; you would go
farther; now you’ll fare worse.” Moral: Don’t
chop MTlwraith for Lane. See Fables.”
“M.K.H.”; 0. suggested; you say; makes all 'the
difference. Hope you weren’t the man ?... “Hamish”:
Your name should guarantee such a charge if printed
“ A.C.” : Better ; may use... “ M.L.” : Pleasant prattle’;
too thin and vague “C.C.”; Melodramatic, impossible
horror... “R. Box ” : Good idea, but impossible to print
in Enslish “ A.R.P.”: Wants peg or plot ; can’t you
work into a short story? “Kappa”: May do
“W.S.”: Thanks “S.C.”; Possibly “6xB’*:
Hardly good enough....“ W.M.” (Northampton, Eng.):
Thanks....“ Eligibility ” ; Wait till the amending Act,
i'ow before Parliament, passes ; then see that your name
is correctly spelt on the roll, and apply to the chief
electoral officer for a new right... “ Mararoa": Con-
federacy, based on signal-code; thus : “ Say whom I
touch” means ,S'mith, “ Tell me whom I touch” means
Tomkins, and so on,in half-a-soore of ways “ W.Q.8.":
Stick to prose and cut it short “ Yarrevah Possibly.
“Pauper”: Trite “M. Rule”: Dull
“ L.L.” : The Bulletin isn’t going to start a controversy
on ‘‘Why Don’t Men Marry?” Read the chapter on
marriage in Max Nordau’s “ Conventional Lies of our
Civilisation,” and then you’ll know all about the subject.
It is no doubt a “most improper ” book, but it is written
with a knife, and only costs a couple of shillings or so
“Grace” : The Chief Justice so interwove with the actual
dishonesty the fact that accused accepted inter-
views from clients directly, that the inference is that the
reputed dishonest actions were seriously aggravated by
the departure from ancient custom...“ Ryebuck ” :
Wrong, buck ...“ R.G." (Ch. Ch., M.L.): As you say, if
Carbine had been named Pears' Soap or Beecham’s Pills it
would have been an “ad.” worth paying for. But, then,
no one knows when he names his horse how it will turn
out. One horse was named after a patent medicine, and
it came in last so consistently that it made horsey people
leave off buying the medicine,....“Anonyna” : We are
tired of hearing of G. Washington....“ Scrub Turkey”:
Your characters rush about a good deal but never seem to
get anywhere, and ride long distances only to curse on
gates at nothing in particular “Bee”: Tale has no
beginning or end, and the middle is limp and unaccount-
able “ E.A.” (Boat Harbour): The promoter
is in gaol—or out on bail, we don’t know which—awaiting
trial. The affair was exposed in The Bulletin months ago.
.... “Afterthe Ball” : All the bad language that has been
used In this world since the Creation, and all the bad
language that has not been used then or at any other
time, and all the bad language that is ever likely to be
used, only feebly expresses the language we would like to
use about your production.. “Jeremy Taylor”: There
is no theologian on these premises “1.5.” (River-
stone): It doesn’t matter. Nothing does matter, for that
matter... “Ugly Mug” (Brisbane): Thanks... “J. 8.”
(Eidsvold): Suggestion will be considered ‘‘The
Palmer”: The Bulletin doesn’t urge the present Aus-
tralian Parliaments to ignore the titles of their bebaubled
members for the same reason that it doesn’t urge a cow
to sing. ...“A. Pariah”: We suspect you of a hidden
tendency to allude to The Bulletin as our “ valuable
paper,” and prefer to discourage you in advance
“A Scribbler”: We don’t know. The promoters are
awaiting their trial, and the “prizes” are alleged to be
valueless “ M.M.W.” (W.A.): (1) Labouchere is not a
Roman Catholic. (2) Jackson is a West Indian. (3) Cor-
bett has not drawn the colour-line ... “ Jarrah ” (VV.A.):
Don’t recollect his name “H.C.” (G.P.0,): “ Was She
His Sister?” Well, we are—er —unable to say for certain,
but we don’t think she was . “J.G.” (Broken Hill):
Thanks “A. Sheen”: The Colonial Mutual and the
Mutual Life of Australasia have both abolished the
“ suicide clause ” and all the other old-fashioned restrio
tions.
TYPHOID.
While the whole community is deeply interested
in the alarming spread of this fatal disease, it is
amazing to contemplate the fearful amount of
indifference exhibited with regard to its dangers.
Whether it is communicated to the human frame
by “microbes,” “bacilli,” or more simply speaking
by “germs,” it seems agreed that improved sani-
tation is the main remedy for preventing its
propagation. This indeed has been clearly proved
by the remarkably good results obtained in Eng-
land since attention has been given to strict
sanitary law, and it behoves every householder or
occupier of a dwelling, in these colonies, to keep
this fact in view, and act accordingly with respect
to his own premises and its surroundings. So
long, however, as individuals have no control over
their neighbours’ proceedings, and the authorities
are inactive, so long will liability to the disease be
perpetuated. Under these circumstances, we have
to look for the next best thing to be done, and
bearing in mind that the state of the physical
system is an important factor in relation to sus-
ceptibility to the “germ,” it should become a
matter of constant and watchful care that the tone
of the system be kept up to good form. It not un-
frequently occurs that persons habitually healthy
and vigorous, begin at times to feel a degree
of lassitude and disinclination to exertion, and a
sensation of “tiredness,” without any apparent
cause. This may arise from the disorganisation of
some important functional part of the internal
economy—it may be the liver or the kidneys that
are not properly performing their office. The
result is the communication of poisonous acids to
the blood, and this becoming vitiated, the dis-
position to “housing ” the germ of typhoid will be
the result, whereas, if the impairment did nob
exist, the germ probably would not find lodgment.
Therefore, whatever tends to keep the organs in
their normal condition, is the best antidote to
typhoid, and for this, there is nothing to equal
Warner’s Safe Cure, which has been thoroughly
tested by tens of thousands, and incontestibly
proved to act as represented when taken according
to directions. By keeping the kidneys in healthy
action the blood is rendered pure and the whole
tone of the system strengthened and invigorated.
Safe Cure does it.
Seldom have the colours of the “Louis”
velveteen been more beautiful than this season,
combining regal richness with a new brilliancy
that is not too pronounced, and could not be easily
surpassed. The exquisite finish of the Genoa face,
fast-woven pile of the “Louis ” velveteen gives an
effect of velvet beyond all praise. The colours are
warranted permanent.
Gravity—A mysterious carriage of the
body to cover the defects of the mind. —Sterne.


SKINS
Kangaroo. Opossnm. Rabbit.
AND ALL OTHER SKINS.
SKINS
EXTEITSIVJ3 POB TUB] OOMIBO- SBASOB.
M‘BURNEY, WALLIS & CO.
N. M'BTJRNEY.
E. a^WALUS.
B. C. FRANKS.
S. J. HEAD.
15 to 29 years with the late Firm
of Mort Sc Co., and Golds*
brough, Mort Sc Co., Ltd.
Stores—Margaret Street and Circular Quay. Offices—Macquarie Street, Sydney.
The Best House in the Trade for PERSONAL ATTENTION to Consignments and QUICK RETURNS. MEMBERS OF THE FIRM CONDUCT ALL SALES. WRITE FOR
OUR BOOKS ON THE GET-UP OF SKINS, etc.
Slieepsltlns and Butchers’ Produce a Speciality.
How offensive are the parson’s lily-white
hands 1
Collection—The backbone of the Christian
Churches
A shocking story is just now told re the
corpse of a woman named West, late of Birming-
ham. Her brother was the only other occupant
of the cottage she died in; he went off for the
doctor, and during his absence the cat ate a
portion of the dead woman’s face. That is a
horrible story, but not every reader will notice
where the real awfulness comes in. The cat had
evidently been starved to desperation-point.
Let us have good, rather sensational,
short stories. The Bible is full of them.” —
Methodist Recorder, London.
“ Forty - seven years I toiled without
recognition. In my old age I translated an in-
delicate book, and immediately made sixteen
thousand guineas.”— Burton.
We read a circumstantial report about a
Maekay (Q.) squatter who discharged a servant-
girl, and sent her wages after her by post. She
sent an unstamped receipt, which the squatter
immediately handed to the Customs authorities,
when the girl was fined 10s.
df
Musicsellers and Booksellers Note!
Two ThouLßaiiti Copies I
Have teen Sold in S7dne7 alone.
Write to EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., or W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Ltd.), for Prices.
Canvassers easily EARN A POUND A DAY by SELLING this
WALTZ. One Lady earned £9 in Six Days.
O, King i i i
888 LIVE FOR EVER!
o £
Was the salute tendered to King Solomon by his people.
Nevertheless Solomon the Wise died at a comparatively
early age, because he did not know how to care for that
most important organ of the human body, the liver, which
has justly been considered the great centre of life's
machinery. In it is stored the nutriments absorbed
during digestion, which is gradually given out into the
blood to keep up the vigor of the human organism. When
the Liver ceases to do its work the head is heavy, thoughts
come slowly, the tongue is dirty, mouth tastes foul, appetite
is poor; sleep is disturbed, bile circulates in the blood,
causing a yellow tinge in the skin and eruptions, fits of
coughing, slimy expectorations, and pains in the right side.
If this condition is not checked, the consequences will be
serious to the sufferer. The best and never-failing remedy is
LADIES
Liver Restorative
r Uob O Constipation Cure
It is a Certain Remedy for all Disorders of tlie Liver and Kidneys, Indigestion,
Impaired Appetite, Flatulency, Sour Eructations, and Bilious Headache. It relieves
and cures Piles and Constipation permanently by continued use.
will find it an invaluable home remedy, it being an efficacious aperient
of pleasant aromatic taste, neither nauseating nor griping. In its results
against the over indulgence in food or liquor its effects are marvellous. A
few doses prevent sea-sickness.
The Unprecedented Success PUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND
CONSTIPATION CURE has met with has induced the inventor to
offer the refund of the price, 2s. 6d., - ihe medicine fails to cure or
relieve the ailments he recommends it for.
Solcl Everywhere.
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
sd
f
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 13/6 each ; Plainer Finish,
T/6 each. Postage 6d, extra throughout the world.
Awarded FIRST PRIZE by Royal A ffri~
cultural Society.
W. J no. Baker, Cntler, 3 Hnnter-st., Sydney
dsf
THE GREAT
SoandLlxiaviaxx Remedy
—FOR—
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Chest and Pulmonary
Complaints, Nervous Exhaustion, Rheumatism,
Gout, Chalky Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, Neuralgia,
Bright’s Disease, Kidney and Liver Disorders,
British Cholera, and all Blood and Skin Diseases,
Thespian Institute, 168 Bay-street, Glebe, Nov. 22, '93.
Professor Thulinius.—My Dear Sir,—I feel I should be want-
ing in duty, did I neglect the opportunity of sending you my
testimony as to the wondrous efficacy of your rheumatio
specific. For the past ten years I have been a complete
martyr to rheumatism in all its forms. I have tried doctors
. , . . with a view of effecting a cure for this most trying
disease. , I am well-known, and scores can testify
that at best I could only crawl about with difficulty. . . .
After leaving Little Bay Hospital at the close of last year I
was persuaded to try a bottle of your “Thulinius,” and in a
week or so afterwards I could get about fairly well. Upon
again suffering a relapse last February, I took another bottle,
with an equally successful result; but at last I determined to
go through a course of treatment, and I have just completed
my fourth bottle, with the gratifying knowledge that I am
quite free from pain, can walk any reasonable distance with-
out fatigue, have an excellent appetite, and feel myself again
competent to re-enter my profession, added to which my oft-
repeated attacks of pleurisy have become a thing of the past.
I have not dieted myself in any way, so all the credit is due to
your wonderful remedy, under Providence, that my blood is
becoming purer daily, and its effect upon my liver and kid-
neys most pronounced. ... I shall only be too glad
personally to convince fellow-sufferers of the benefits to be
derived from a course of your treatment, as exemplified in
my own case, after ten years’ martyrdom.—I remain, yours
faithfully, W. H. NEWTON NEWMAN (Teacher of Elocution
and twenty-five years Actor and Manager).
[The Rev. J.D. Langley, St. Philip’s Parsonage, and Mr. H. H.
Lusk, Barrister-at-Law, can testify as to the crippled state of
Mr. Newman prior to his taking “ Thulinius.”]
s m
■V*
mm
tXe
sd
Remedy
Dep6t; 15 VICTORIA ARCADE, entrance from EHsabeth-street (near King-street) and Castlereagh-
Itreet, opposite “ The Australia ” Hotel, SYDNEY. BOX 1408 0.P.0.
Write tor Pamphlets and particulars of successfully treated oases.
PROPERTY DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST THE SHAREHOLDERS IN
He Woggonora Building Society.
(Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.)
Proposed Issue of 20,000 Shares at £1 Each,
ONE SHARE FOR £l. NO LIABILITY.
Committee of Management:
ARTHUR LEEDS, Esq., Burrenbilla Station.
P. McGUIGAN, Esq., Merchant, Cunnamulla.
HY. BURTON, Esq., Woggonora Station, „
Solicitors:
Measrs. THYNNE & MACARTNEY, Brisbane.
Sydney References:
Messrs. JOSEPH LEEDS & CO., Stock and
Station Agents.
Bankers :
COMMERCIAL BAN KINO COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, Limited.
The Committee of Management, having purchased the undermentioned properties, have decided
to distribute the same by ballot amongst the Members of the Society as provided by the Society’s rules.
60,000 Acres of Splendid Pastoral Land.
Stocked with 20,000 Well-bred Young Sheep.
The Properties, which are more fully described below, to be divided amongst the Shareholders
by ballot are :
PIBST PRIZE
SECOND PRIZE •
THIRD PRIZE -
One Prize
Total
- Value £6500
- Value £5500
- Value £4500
- Value £lOOO
10 Prizes, Value £lOO each •
10 Prizes, Value £5O each -
50 Prizes, Value £lO each •
100 Prizes, Value £5 each -
£lOOO
£5OO
£5OO
£5OO
Value of Prizes
£20,000.
Winners of all Prizes, except the first three Prizes, are secured the means of disposing of them
immediately after the Drawing, at a cash price equal to ninety per cent, of the stated values
clear of all expense, as the Committee have a firm undertaking from a responsible person to
purchase the whole or any of those lots on those terms.
, x X ——————
FIRST PRIZE, value .£6500. “ Tkkngulea ” Grazing Farm, Cunnamulla District, Queens-
land, consisting of 20,000 acres of splendid sheep country, 25 miles from Cunnamulla, and fenced with
new six-wire fences all round, and a good four-roomed house, horse yards, large sheep drafting yards,
and 640-acre horse paddock. Bough Creek runs through the centre of this beautiful property for six
miles, and has an earthen dam and tank at the lower end, whilst the north part of the run may be
considered permanently watered by a solid masonry overshot dam across the Creek; 7000 Woggonora
bred classed Ewes, 1 to 4 years old, will be given in with the property.
SECOND PRIZE, value .£5500, consists of “ Kahmoo ” Grazing Farm, 12 miles from Ounna-
mulla, 20,000 acres leasehold and 5000 acres reserve, securely fenced. Improvements—house, horse
paddock, drafting yards and 10,000 yard tank, besides natural waterholes. Splendid open salt-bush
country. 7000 mixed Hoggets, all one ear-mark, will be given in with the property.
THIRD PRIZE, value .£4500. “ Belinqra ” Grazing Farm, situated between the first two
prizes. 20,000 acres, fenced with new six-wire fencing, subdivided into two paddocks, beside 900 acre
horse paddock, good house, horse yards, sheep yard, permanent well with double horse-whip,
and about 100 yards of iron troughing. Stock consisting of 6000 two, four and six-tooth Wethers will
be given in.
The winner of any of these prizes has a compact sheep run in working order, which forms
a comfortable home, and ensures a handsome yearly income. The leases have all 26 years to
run, with compensation for improvements at the end of that term, so that they are virtually as
good as a freehold.
171 FRlZES. —Details and values of remaining 171 prizes are given in Schedule filed in
Society’s office, and consist of valuable freehold properties. If any winner feels dissatisfied with the*
property allotted to him, a purchaser is available for it in cash at 90 per cent, of the scheduled value. W
Conditions.
The Drawing will take place at Cunnamulla in the presence of the Committee and Shareholders
in the following manner, viz. By placing numbered marbles in a revolving barrel together, and then
draw the 100 Prizes of .£5 each. After recording and checking the 100 successful numbers, the
marbles will be replaced, and another drawing of 50 Prizes, .£lO each, will take place in the same way,
and so on with the .£5O, £lOO and £lOOO Prizes respectively.
The marbles will then be replaced and the three First Prizes drawn, so that each Ticket has a
chance of winning one of the Grazing Farms and Stock, as well as five other Prizes.
In consequence of the large number of applications for Shares, it has been decided to CLOSE the
Application List on 25th MAY —a month earlier than was originally intended.
If list not filled, the Committee have full power, under terms of purchase and the rules, to
enable them to ensure a distribution, and will modify the Schedule as circumstances may require. The
Committee in making any such modification will protect the interests of the Members of the Society
to the best of their power.
The Government Valuator has valued the First Prize at £3340, and the Second and Third at
£2500 each, exclusive of Stock and Improvements.
The winners of the Grazing Farms will have the Crown parchment leases of the land with signed
transfer handed to them free of all rates, rents, taxes, or other encumbrance up to date.
For shares and all particulars apply to —
GEORGE STORY,
Secretary, Cunnamulla, Queensland.
TO THE COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT OF
The WOGGONORA BUILDING SOCIETY,
Cuzinaixiulla., Queensland.
Dear Sirs,
Please allot me.
.shares in the above Society ,
in terms of attached Circular. I enclose for payment £.
Dated this
.day of.
.1894.
Name, in full.
Occupation.
stamps in payment for
Address in fu11..,.
§ Specify here if payment is by P. 0.0. or what. Please do not enclose
Shares. N.8.—P.0.0. preferred, if cheque sent exchange must be added.
When enclosing stamps for reply-postage, if stamps be other than Queensland, do not attach then?
to envelopes. Amount of stamps may be added to P. 0.0. or Cheques, etc.
GEOSYENOR HOTEL,
SYID3NTESY,
First-class Accommodation* Tariff from 10s* Sd* per Day*
VISITORS CAN AVAIL THEMSELVES OF THE SEPARATE TARIFF.
SINGLE BOOM, 4s. - - DOUBLE ROOM, Bs.


TATTERS ALL’S
ROSEHILL CUP.—APRIL 14th
MAY DAY CUP, —MAY Ist
BIRTHDAY CUP.—MAY 24th
tsr 10,000 at 6.
tar 26,000 at 6.
t 3- 50,000 at 6.
r*» TATTKIISA W
Caro of George Adams,
"The Telegraph” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
[ Brisbane, auccusland
DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHA.X IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got for sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you ? Will you do your business at
KT THO N Y JJORDERKT’S ?
ANTHONY HORDERN’S ?
SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY ISI TE4
BUY EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived in town .
ONLY ADDRESS of the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS :
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (O NLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
fds
DJ?. A- WILFORD HALL'S
GREAT HYGIENIC DISCOVERT
For the cure of nearly all diseases witnout the use
of Medicine.
The appliance complete, comprising one gallon bronzed
Fountain, six feet of good Quality Rubber Tubing, Nickel-plated
Clip and Ivory Keenan Tube, with Free book containing full
instructions, price 55.. posted 9d. extra.
Donald Kurtz. 264 Russell St., Melbourne.
WM
BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS”
velveteen.
f
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK,
AMD
EVERY
CONCEIVABLE
SHADE,
roB
PRESENT WEAR.
‘LOUIS’ Velveteen
is essentially a ladies'
material, and surpasses
all Fabrics for the
adornment of women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
t HANDSOME FABRIC
! Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
TOOTE Each yard of genuine
“ LOUIS ” Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped
with a guarantee of wear. Ladies should reject all
substitutes.
JOHN JERGER
Gold-saving Machine-
Orders for above received
by undersigned. “ The Poor
Man’s Friend,” to put through
400 buckets of dirt per day,
.£l5 f.0.b., Sydney. Cash
to accompany each order.
JOHN JERGER, In-
ventor and Patentee,
Goulburn, New
S. Wales.
Public Notice.
Th.e “ ECLIPSE ”
PATENT GOLD SEPARATOR
:a. t. B-A.HiXj & co..
Sole Manufacturers,
G-oulburzi.
PUBLIC CHALLENGE.
rpHE above are prepared to meet the John Jbrobboi
A any other Gold Separator in a Public Trial to test
the superiority of either machine as a practical Gold
Saver.
We claim to be able to put through any class of wash-
dirt without preparing it—no separating of stones re-
quired. We can put through One Load in 20 Minutes ,
with less water than any other machine. We claim to
be able to save all the free gold. We have by far the
best all-round machine.
Before ordering elsewhere, call and inspect our
“ECLIPSE” GOLD SAVER, which can be seen at our
works, GOULBURN.
For Terms and Price, apply—
JR. T» Ball & Co, f
Sole Makers, GOULBURN.
STAR
ROSEHILL CUP.
2000 at 2 6
MAY DAY CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BRISBANE CUP.
6000 at 2 6
BIRTHDAY CUP.
10,000 at 2 6
(ROSEHILL)
April 14, 1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 1, 1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 24, 1894.
(RANDWICK)
May 26,1894.
Address “STAR,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY,
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code: “ WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
“Australian Form at a Glance.” Now Ready, 1/-;
Posted, 1/1. Best reference for Current Events. CHAS.
WESTBROOK will be in the Old Spot in the Paddock at
Rand wick during the Autumn Meeting.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TUB CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other!
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. ELI.IS.
—THE—
Wentworth Hotel
SB
m
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
VITAL ITAST
The Great French Nerve Ss Brain Restorative.
A specific for Nervousness, Debility, Weakness, etc.
It quickly and permanently restores the enfeebled con-
dition, resulting from excesses, worry and overwork, and
can be relied upon as a genuine aphrodisiac, prepared
in the form of Pills. PRICE, 3s. per liox, post free.
National Drug Co., Uussell-st,, Melbourne,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
On the concluding days of the A.J.O. Autumn
meeting the syndicate's colt, Projectile, started favourite
lor the Rous Handicap, but at the end the Derby winner,
Trenchant, came away and wonhandsdown from thefavour-
ite. Mount Morganaire Hall’s sterling little horse, Oxide,
won the Place Handicap from the Trier, and gentleman
Jock H. M. Cox, who had the mount on Helios, came in
ahead of all the pros, in the Second Steeplechase. Ike
Earnshaw then showed that he is licking Mr. Sam Hor-
dern’s stud into shape by winning the Second Nursery
Handicap with the 10 to 1 show, Collarette. Up to this
the books had all the best of the deal, but when Light
Artillery finished ahead of the Champion winner, Portsea,
in the A.J.C. Plate, punters got back a deal of their
“stuff.” Weight of a big punter’s money made Division
favourite lor the Pinal Handicap, but he never got a place,
Alberoore winning from The Rat. Mr. “Tom" Lamond
has been doing good business with Albercore for weeks
past, and this is not the first win he has scored with the
mare at the rattling odds of fourteens.
» * » •
Titan’s victory in the Cumberland Stakes, over
as good a field as could be found in Australia, sets at
rest all doubts as to his being a stayer.
♦ » • •
One big owner is said to have offered a leading
horseman ten guineas for an important recent win, and
later on he gave only three guineas to the rider of another
winner. , , ,
Beau Brutnmel’s violent death, at Onkaparinga
(S.A.), reduces interest in the next Flemington O.N.
Steeplechase. The Ballarat horse got round the Fleming-
ton course in such finestyle, last month, thathe would, with
any reasonable weight up, have been a popular Vic. fancy
for the winter race. The Beau was just the sort of animal
to distinguish himself over heavy going.
* * • •
The most acceptable explanation of the falling-
off in Carnage’s form is the story that his trainer was too
kind to the horse after Melbourne Cup meeting. The
same mistake was made with Malvoho, who probably
became fat inside when allowed to take life easily, and
has never recovered his old self. Carnage had a lot of
indulgence shown him, they say. Not being a strong-
constitutioned horse, the next course of hard training
disagreed with his liver.
* * * •
This season’s three-year-olds, although looking
better than the average, are a very moderate lot by their
performances. For Carnage they now have to make
excuses which may not he justified anon. Anyway, it is
clear that Loyalty, Light Artillery, Patron, and Sailor
Prince, the chief rivals of Carbine’s half-brother in the
Sprng, are nothing great. Old Marvel and Titan knocked
sawdust out of the’ year’s champions.
* * * •
Lady Trenton was undoubtedly lame the morn-
ing of the Sydney Cup. A relative of the owner’s came
to town with a pony in his pocket specially to put on the
mare, but was put off owing to her lameness. It would
have been a nice little win at 20 to L
• * * •
A match may shortly be fixed up between Mr.
Buckland’s Van Cleeve colt, Fritz, and the Victorian
trotter, Osterley. Fritz is undoubtedly a speedy colt, but
it remains to be seen how he would battle the heats put
with the old stager. To come nearer home, the writer
would like to see a match between Fritz and Mr. Frank
Hill’s Ariel.
* ♦ * *
Ariel, who took first prize for buggy horses at
last year’s Sydney Agricultural Show, was “distanced”
this year, Mr. John M'Namara and Dr. Brereton taking
first and second prizes respectively.
And, by the way, the Show people should have
a clearer definition of a buggy horse. It requires a big
stretch to call a trotting-horse, pure and simple, such as
Ariel, which is on the racing track almost every week, a
“buggy horse.”
* • * *
Titan made fiiinnows of the cracks in the
Cumberland Stakes at Randwick. It must make
“plunger” Brodribb think of what might have been if
the gelding had shown this form when he owned him.
• • ♦ * •
If elected to the V.R.C. committee, barrister
Purves proposes to make very big changes. So mots
it bs!
» * * *
None of the bookies and only about 50 of the
knowing ones who backed the favourite, Culioden, at
Maribyrnong (Vic.) last week, were in the secret that his
most dangerous opponent, Grangeburn, was carrying 201 b.
overweight. The horses were half-way home before the
declaracion was made. The howls of the ring when
Culioden walked in is a thing to be remembered for a
lifetime.
* * • *
A man from Coolgardie laid .£OOOO to .£4OOO on
Carnage for V.R.C. St. Leger, and went down, of course.
But this is not the last Westralian gold that is going to
be spent foolishly, by a long chalk.
• • * •
The inglorious uncertainty of the turf was
strangely shown on the third day of the A.J.C. meeting.
Titan, whose force always has been sprinting, was no-
where in the All-Aged Stakes, one mile; but, later on,
beat the best field in Australia over two miles. In his in-
and-out career there has been nothing so contradictory.
Had a pony owned by some little “ Tommy ” shown such
contradictory form, the crowd would have hooted. But
Donald Wallace is as much above suspicion as was James
White.
• • • *
There is more fuss over a horse killed than a
jockey.
• * • *
Bairnsdale Racing Club selling-race won by
Manaro. Hector second. Manaro sold for £l5. Hector,
£B6. Hector lost a tooth during the race.
Pactolus, a Gippsland-bred colt, is likely to dis-
tinguish himself before long. He won three races at the
Bairuvdale meeting, all in good time, on poor going.
• * • •
Marvel has again won the All-aged Stakes,
beating Loyalty and Carnage. It was his victory over
Carbine in this race, three years ago, that opened the
public eye to the true quality of the Dark Horse. The
day was wet, and Carbine ran without tips. The fact that
wearing these he turned the tables in the Cumberland
Stakes, later on, made people doubt the first verdict.
But likely enough that, both at their best, Marvel was
Carbine’s master over the distance—one mile.
a • • •
Said that Portsea’s dislike to right-hand run-
ning accounts for his indifferent display at Randwick. It
would be well if all Australian races were run in the same
direction, but, irrespective of conservatism, such a change
would necessitate a change in the position of stands,
enclosures, Ac.
• * • *
At Gundagai (N.S.W.) races, a good nag called
Led Astray was unearthed, and may soon be seen on
metropolitan courses. He recently changed hands at a
tenner, but, on his Gundagai running, must be a clinker.
♦ * • ♦
At Onkaparinga (S.A.) races the totalisator
officials could not take all the money offered at the
windows. £15,000 odd went through the machine. The
club's commission for the day was (at 7i per cent.) £1125.
This is the result of the abolition of the bookmakers.
Why shouldn’t 25 per cent, of the commission go to
charity ?
• • • .
Bairnsdale (Vic.) held a regatta Easter Saturday.
The Bairnsdale sergeant of police is a born diplomatist.
On Saturday night, or rather 1 a.m. Sunday, “the boys,”
having been turned out of the pub., proceeded in a body
to serenade the local bank-manager. They had just
formed into line in front of the bank when the sergeant
appeared. “Now, boys, you’re not going to make any
row here.” “By ,we are then," replied the leader of
the gang. “ Well, if you do, you’ll have to get it over in
five minutes,” said X 42. “Good enough, old man," and
“ He’s a jolly good fellow ’’ proceeded for about five
minutes, after which the entertainers rolled home.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool now arriving in Sydney consists of odd lots of
greasy and country scoured. At our sale we had a large
attendance of buyers with brisk competition for greasy at
rates on a level with our last offering. For scoured the
change in value was slightly in buyers’ favour. We attri-
bute this to the continued bad news from the London
market. For the time of year our catalogue was very
representative. Among the brands offered were the fol-
lowing:—HC & C from Forbes, TJ New England from
Tamworth, PR from Tumut, Riverside/TNM Dubbo from
Dubbo, 6a 'Z. from Adelong, AG & SH/C from Cooma,
WH/Walcha from Walcha, WHT from Nyngan, GEM from
Binalong, WR/L from Annidale, MS/CF from Captain s
Flat, RHYA from Quirindi, R/A from Wellington,
X Orange from Orange, W from Yass, ITM/Bogan from
Girilambone, DA Q from Quipolly.
22nd March, 1894.
Mr. G. Carpenter, a Cunninghame (Gipps-
land) identity, when in Westralia lately, tramped
with two mates from the railway station to beyond
Coolgardie, a distance of 260 miles, in ten days.
Besides the diggers who were making their
fortunes, he saw hundreds who would_ have gladly
returned to Vic, When he landed in Melb. he
was wearing the same pair of boots he wore
during the whole of his trip. It is just here that
the advt. of the firm which built that particular
pair of boots ought to come in. The bootmaker
was Ellis, of Newcastle, whose advt. will be found
on page 16.
In the Green—malpractice—trial, at Mel-
bourne, Justice A’Beckett warned the jury that
their fear of the death-penalty being carried put
should not weigh with them in finding a verdict
of guilty, as “it was not every verdict of guilty
that was followed by the hanging of the accused.”
Yet, when the jury had found a verdict of guilty,
the Judge, in passing sentence of death, held out
no hope of mercy ! It recalls the shearers’ trial at
Deniliquin. It also recalls a Sydney libel-action
in which plaintiff asked for exemplary damages,
but said, through his lawyer, that he wouldn’t
touch a penny of them —they would go to charity.
He was awarded £lOO0 —and it didn't go to
charity. No promises or implied promises should
be given or taken in court.
Ipswich follows Townsville, and the Q.
Labour-party gains another seat in Parliament
—the Labour-vote vote now totalling 17.
The result is a bitter disappointment to
the Government, which sent two Ministers
to back up its candidate, and worked every
possible oracle to secure his return. Ipswich,
too, has been the stronghold of Piety and Pro-
perty ever since there was an Ipswich ; the same
Labour candidate at last election was defeated by
a good majority, and now he stands 156 votes
ahead. Both the candidates were journalists—
Wilkinson, the successful one, being much younger
than Stephenson, who is a very old resident, and
was supported by the leading newspaper, by all
the parsons, and by all the property influence, as
well as by all the Cabinet influence. Yet he is
badly beaten, without the shadow of excuse. The
Q.N. Bank scandal may take a good share of the
credit. How MTlwraith will rage!
David Buchanan believed largely in his
ability to get criminals acquitted. He onoe said
to a Sydney solicitor who had been defending a
man (re whose guilt the jury disagreed) for for-
gery ; “Had / been defending him there would
have been no disagreement.” He got the brief at
the second trial and the man got five years.
Mr. J. Jerger.
INVENTOR OF THE NEW GOLD-SAYING
MACHINE.
Mr. J. Jerger, the inventor of the new gold-
saving applianoe which bears his name, was
born in the Grand Duchy of Baden, Germany,
and having a strong mechanical turn of mmd,
his father apprenticed him to the watch and
clock-making trade in the Black Forest. After
three years’ hard and laborious work he was
sent to England, where in his 24th y® ar
he enjoyed the prominent position of fore-
man watchmaker to Mr. F. H. Goulding,
Plymouth, who owned, it is reported, not only the
finest but the largest establishment in the West of
England. Here it was, during a service of ten
years, his inventive genius brought forth and com-
pleted the most complicated and extraordinary
oiece of work in horokWcal art that could possibly
be conceived, its purpose being to tell the pro-
prietors of a ’bus co. plying between Devenport
and Plymouth how many passengers travelled, and
where they entered and alighted, and how many in-
dividual fares were paid, as a check against their
employes. For this work he was the recipient
of .£BOO sterling. Again, on May 17, 1887, Mr.
J. Jerger was gazetted in London as an inventor
and enjoying the privileges attached to royal
letters patent No, 3874 for inventions in the art
already alluded to. In the same year he was
further honoured by receiving the royal letters
patent No. 1740 from Berlin. Again, in Novem-
ber of that year, the inventors’ medallion was
awarded to Mr. J. Jerger from the Falmouth
Polytechnical Exhibition. Being unfortunately
a sufferer from asthma he was earnestly advised by
his medical man to proceed without delay to Aus-
tralia. He went to reside in Parramatta; but a life
of seclusion evidently appeared not to be a part of
his progressive nature, for his name once again
appears gazetted in the Patent Office, both in
Sydney and Melbourne, as an inventor of a fire-
escape, for which invention he was offered at the
public trial given in Sydney the sum of £2500
sterling. For his last invention, now causing such
stir not only in the gold-mining community, but
in the minds of the public generally, he has been
granted letters patent in the colonies of Australia
and New Zealand. He claims that this invention
proves under the severest tests to be one of the
finest, easiest, and surest methods of obtaining
gold from gold-bearing earth, and that it must in
the hands of miners tend strongly to disperse the
deplorable depression at present existing.


Miscellaneous*
A FREE GIFT !
Notice to our Country and Inter-
colonial Customers .
'M'O nutter if you live in town, country, or another
colony, if you have a photo. of yourself or any dear
friend, and you want an Enlargement of it, send it to us.
We will make vou from it a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
ENLARGEMENT on the Best Ground Opal, size 12 x 10
inches, which, when properly mounted, is suitable for a
frame 21 x 18 inches, and pack it carefully, and pay for
it through the new parcels post right to your very
door, for 10s. 6d. The usual price for this same
thing in Sydney is Three Pounds Three Shillings
(£3 35.). We are doing this as an advertisement,
and while it lasts it is a chance of a lifetime. Under-
stand, there is no condition of framing or otherwise. All
you have to do is to send your Photo, and your Name and
Address, and your 10s. 6d., and you will quickly get your
picture, which we guarantee will charm $ ou.
Now, every man who has looked through a camera, no
matter if he be the greenest amateur, knows perfectly
well that this cannot be done for the money in the ordi-
nary way of business. Query—Then why do it? Answer
—We want to put out a limited number of our enlarge-
ments each year as an advertisement.
Or if you have a Photo., and you want more of it, send
it to us; we will copy it and send you Six Enamelled
Cabinets and your own Photo, for 6s. 6d., or 12 ditto ditto
for 10s., post paid.
When in Sydney, if you will sit to us for one dozen of
our Highly-finished Cabinet Portraits at 10s. per dozen,
we will present you with a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
PORTRAIT ENLARGEMENT of yourself ou the BEST
GROUND OPAL, FREE OF CHARGE.
A guarantee:.
It is well known in the Photographic Profession through
the whole of Australesia, and by every man in Sydney,
that we have the Largest Photographic Studios, Offices,
and Works, and employ hy far the largest number of
artists and workmen in the Southern Hemisphere. This,
we think, is a sufficient guarantee that we will send out
none but the very best production possible in each case, as
we are thoroughly alive to the fact that each Picture
speaks for or against us. We cannot afford to be careless.
CAUTION.—As we have no agents in the country, don't
give your Photo to anyone, but send it straight to us ; it
is safe then. Note the Address:—THE CROWN
BROMIDE ENLARGEMENT COY., at
THE CROWN STUDIOS,
Corner Georye & Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
LIGHT.
STRONG.
CHEAP.
“SUNBEAM” O.K.
Price, with Cushion Tyres ... £l4 o 0
~ with Pneumatic Tyres ... 1J 10 0
Complete, with detachable brake, mud-guards and foot-
rests; ball-bearings to all parts, including head and
pedals; unbreakable spokes; finished in best black enamel,
with parts nickel-plated ; strong hammock saddle, spanner,
oil-can and tool-bag.
Further particulars (post free; from
EDGE & EDGE,
248 l*Ut Street, SIDNEY.
Restored to Health
BY THE USE OP
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. GUMMING,
of Tarraville, Tictcria, Australia, says s
“ About a year ago, I had a severe attack
of Influenza, which left me very weak, with-
out. energy, appetite, or interest In life.
Obtaining little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recommended to
me, I Anally tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and.
(S*
V
from that time, I began to gain health and
strength. I continued the treatment until
fully recovered, and now have very great
pleasure in telling my friends of the merits
of Ayer’s. Sarsaparilla, and the happy re-
sults of its use. I consider it the best blood-
purifler known.” *
Ayer’s 1% Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair
Made by Dr. J. C.Ayer & Co.,Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A.
NEWMAN’S ATELIER
FOR
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
314 GEOEGE - STEEET,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
J. Hubert KTewman.
(Late of Oxford-street), Proprietor.
"qooptfWlNQ „
<JlV\WpfATrtElp’
isn, e ... N
..■■■f\H£UMATi5W
s>ince
1 US£p^tjACOJss()|£
I
Business Announcements.
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Yol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Pro. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Yol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.”—Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Bikcii-Hirsohekld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S.
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds
Sore throats* Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes:—
X lis lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
T have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
>JI Perfect Food.
HORLICK’SIIS^
MALTED
MILK.
UP
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS
For TRAVELLERS
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and vialted barley.
TUTALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
I*l no milk is to be added ; it is quicklj
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
TyrALTED MILK is the best food for In-
iil fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
TWALTED MILK, as a food for In-
i»l valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable,and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents;—
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Malted Milk Co., 39, Snow Mill, London, EC.
Bodalla Cheese.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODALLA.
Bears tlie Beglstercd Brand of t lie Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent;
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
JOHN SHEAR WIN,
22!) Sussex Street, SYDNEY,
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. Sd.
Business Announcement.
SQUATTER’S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
3E*ost Free, 6a. 6dL.
■3 Size.
R. & Gr. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 Gearye St., Sydney.
JSF” Post your Razor to be Ground and Set —enclose 1/3.
Rest for Uie Wearied Soles by trying
E Xji L I S’ S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladies, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
W(RE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS ,
UNRE I
GISTERED
IMITATORS
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating whatsizeyou generally lake,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bool making is unknown,
has decided to supply bis patrons at the
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES FOR CASH,
Post Free to any Post-town in Australia. CATALOGUES
POST FREE.
No matter how far back in the interior you may reside,
we post the boots DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR. ELLIS S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample t.r< ad,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY-they are a “going . on-
cern ’’ from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw” or blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items; Gent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid, 17s fid ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s fid ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s fid ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s fid; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s fid ; Primest. French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s fid, Tops for ditto, 12s fid ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s fid (worth £3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s fid ; Three-quarter ditto, 26s fid ; Half ditto,
23s fid ; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
fid ; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s fid ; Ladies’ and Children’s
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies' Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s ; ditto E.S., Ifisfid. Instock—
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d; Nice Glace Oxford Shoe, 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep. Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s fid ;
Glace, Button, 11s fid.
B/\ J
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT.
For a FEW WEEKS ONLY.
A Guinea’s Worth
FOE—
13b. Sea-
Cut, this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments and Remittance of 13s.
6d., when you will have
mailed to you (post free)
a pair of those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow or
wide
toes.
/ELLIS’
/COUPON
/ Guinea
OALMORAL
SAME STYLE IN ELASTIC SIDES, IP PREFERRED.
When sending, mention this paper
THOUSANDS OP TESTIMONIALS.
“I am pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me ; make me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“ JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.”
“The two pairs of boots which we had from you have
been constantly worn for mouths. You appear to use
prime leather. The wear has been phenomenal.
“GEORGE EARNGEY, Roads Office, Deniliquin.”
“ I am highly pleased with your boots, and you have
fitted me to a T.
“H. R. COTTAR, Tarella, Wilcannia.”
“The bools (both pairs) fit splendidly, and give general
satisfaction.
“GEO. GUEST, Jun., The Rock, Boggabri."
“ The boots are giving every satisfaction ; will forward
you all my orders in future. We are unable to produce
such a boot in Queensland.
“ E. BERRY, Electric Telegraphs, Cooktown, Q.”
“ The boots you made me are an excellent fit. As you
know, my right leg is shorter than the left. I can now
(thanks to your cleverness) walk with comfort and secu-
rity. I recommend you to all my friends and acquain-
tances. MARTIN BATES, Mounted Constable,
“ Gilgunnia, Nyraagee."
“ I can strongly recommend your workmanship and fit
as superior to anything I have ever had.
“THOMAS PEARCE, Solicitor, Hillston.N.S.W."
“ The boots came to hand, are well made and fit well.
I send herewith order for four more pairs.
“Miss F. A. ROWLING, Court House, Balranald, N.S.W.*’
Special Notice ! Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
£lOO One Hundred rounds! JCIOO
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. t 3: sth, do. £2; 40prizes, value t'l each;
10 do. at 15s. each ; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Remember I—ALL PARCELS POST FREE.
'jl“- ms. ellis,
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Four one-armed men are employed as
clerks in Melbourne sharebrokers’ offices.
“The consciousness of good work well
done is not half so gratifying as that of bad work
well paid for. ’’-—Francis G kibble.
Sample paragraph from Melb. Herald ;
Had he been a minute earlier, he would have reached
the spot where the heavy stone fell at a period perilously
close to that occurrence.
English contrasts :
Annuities to 14 members Royal Family .. £OOO,OOO
Living wage of miner with family, per annum 78
Archbishop of Canterbury, salary „ „ 15,000
Average clergyman .. „ „ „ 120
Full accounts of the “massacre” of
Captain Wilson and his men by the Matabeles
have come to hand. Here is pathos :
When at last the stock of ammunition was exhausted
and the end was apparent, the devoted band joined hands
and sang together “ God Save the Queen 1”
And then the savages swooped and wiped them
out. It was simply defying fate to sing “ God
Save the Queen ” under such circumstances. They
forgot that these poor Africans had not learned
to bear it.
The N.S.W. Parliament has enacted that
persons of both sexes who may seek to indulge
in the joys of mixed bathing, under the new Act,
must be draped from neck to knee.
A PROPHECY
Far the setting sun o’er the shimmering sea
Sent his shafts of gleaming gold,
And a modest maiden, from neck to knee
Garbed in newest gown, not a bit 100 free,
On the shining sands sauntered gracefully,
Neither prudish, prim, nor bold.
And the men who strolled on the surgeless shore
Were not moved by what they saw,
For the lady proved in the robe she wore
That a meek-eyed maiden may bathe before
Many men, and not be immodest, or
Shock the minions of the law’.
Then she swam afar, and she floated well—
Like a mermaid, more or less.
When she stepped ashore there arose a yell.
And the maiden slii" by a sand-hill fell,
And the trap who lent her a big umbrei
Took her name and her address.
Well, the case w r as heard in a crowded court,
And the peeler, with a wink,
Swore the robe she wore was a yard too short.
And the Bench, a crowd of the solemn sort,
Pined her tive-pounds-five, though the gown she bought
Had been guaranteed not to shrink.
E.D.
Dear Bulletin, — I can sympathise with
your correspondent, “6 x 8,” because I have
known the trials and tribulations of a sultry Aus-
tralian night among the creeping things of the
earth ; but at the same time I imagine “6xB”
is not gifted, so far, with a pigskin hide. I have
seen new-chums camped side by side with old
station-hands, and whilst the former rolled in the
sand vainly striving to elude the caresses of the
sweet-scented sugar-ant, the latter, with faces
swarming with the pests, slumbered peacefully on
in childlike security. You must have a skin. You
rarely hear of a scorpion’s bite: like unto the
snake, he bites not for biting’s sake, nor do either
feed on human flesh and blood like the festive flea,
or the luscious leech, or the marauding mosquito.
“Out Back,” on the Continent, every bush man
knows the fly which sticks to your back for miles,
only vacating his perch to dart for the corner of
your eye ; he will also remember the unpleasant-
smelling and purple-coloured ant which taints
every article with which he comes into contact;
and he will agree with me that it is not the
animal with the sharpest sting he has most reason
to avoid. By a little diligent search you may
oust the scorpion or centipede from his lair,
or by a judicious use of a train of ashes or
water you may check the onsets of the ant,
but you cannot, without great labour, lessen the
fleet of mosquitoes by night or the cloud of flies
by day. I have not yet mentioned the bull-dog
ant, yet I am intimately acquainted with him.
It is not a wise thing to camp near the nest .of the
bull-ant. For an instance : About twenty years
ago, and not many miles from the home-station
of the late lamented Lachlan M‘Bean, N.S.W.,
were camped a party of surveyors. Close to their
quarters a new-chum pitched his tent. He was
“a hatter,” and no one had any clear idea as to
who he was, what he wanted, whence he came, or
whither he was wandering. I merely state the
fact. He erected his calico, rigged his bunk and
seemed satisfied with the surroundings. He was
fairly sociable, and spent the first evening in his
neighbours’ camp ; but the next day, and the next
night, and the following day and night he was
seen not, neither was his voice heard in the
wilderness. Then the surveyor grew suspicious
and walked over to investigate. When he drew
back the flaps of the tent he saw—nothing.
Nothing but ants —bull-dog ants. No blankets,
tucker-bags—no tucker—coat, waistcoat, pants—
nothing but ants ! They had taken a lease of the
tent and didn’t mean to quit. You may perhaps
enquire what had become of the lawful tenant.
Well, now, you know as much as I do.
dome of the boys suggested a gruesome tale, but
the boss believes that, in the early morning, after
the survey party had started out, the sun roused
up the ants and the ants roused up the new chum,
and the poor devil cleared for the Edwards River,
which at that time was a bankex-. However, he
was never seen again. Old nature is very merci-
ful. She takes into consideration our many weak-
nesses. Fancy a flying alligator? or a winged
shark ?or a soaring boa ? Well, you can’t exactly.
The creepers and the crawlers of the world are not
to be desired, but the animals with wings that
steal up behind you unawares, like the silent-
footed Sydney ghosts, are the devils to try the
philosophy of Mr. Saumarez Smith—and he’s the
highest parson I can think of at the present
moment. I remember once sitting on an outoi op
of quartz with an “old hand,” and watching the
gambols of a great family of bull-dog ants, just
below us, at the root of a tree. After a long
reverie the ancient relic of bygone barbarity
remarked : —“ If them there insects could fly, we
wouldn’t be a sittin’ here, boss He was right,
I guess we wouldn’t.—C. Read.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
WE BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
maintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
IHCIM KIM i: \ TS s
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, llibbons, Laces, Ladies' Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing Drapery, Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro-plate, Men's Beady made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept!
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited.
We issue a little book on “ Shopping by Post,” which is
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
Send your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
and will be as well served as if in town to select.
Finney, Isles & Co.,
BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, Q.,
And 64 Basing hall Street, London, E.C.
)Ver
*S
m
<k
9
PILLS
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s Pills are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Every Pose Effective.
Iglf* Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer’s Pills —is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
na INFANTS n INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-GLYGOSE
OE
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Sold Toy- Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
BUTTER ■SCOTCH
celebr ated ch.ldren’s SWEET)
C f r/<cn eSuf S-
L'ancet
(THE CEL
£
S SWEET)
IM
St. John’s Works, Loudon, W.C.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice
Coleinaue & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
%
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOB
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Nervousness Cured!
SEND to HERR RASSMUSSEN, 647 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or any of hia Inter-
colonial Branches, for his Eree and Useful Pamphlet, entitled
“A Thousand Reasons”
Why Sufferers should immediately take
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaliae Vitality Pills!
Which are Registered and Purely Herbal. Cured many Thousands.
A GUARANTEED CURE for the most obstinate NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF MEMORY,
DESPONDENCY, MELANCHOLIA, NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA and IRRITABILITY, WEAK-
NESS, and all Affections peculiar to the NERVES, SPINE and BRAIN. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
nuisriDiß-iEiD TxazoTJS-Aisrnz) i
Blood Diseases Cured!
ALFALINE LOCK CURE PILLS.
Registered. Purely Herbal. Cured over 100,000.
A GUARANTEED CURE for all kinds of BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES
FROM ANY CAUSE, OLD-STANDING BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES, PIMPLED,
ECZEMA, and other unhappy and unpleasant symptoms of the Skin and Blood. Ordinary course,,
posted, 23/6 ; special powerful course, 43/6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”— N.Z. Times, Wellington.
" Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr llassrnussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A,
Register, Adelaide.
"Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.” — CooktowM
Courier. Q.
WHAT IS BETTER THAN
=£1,000,000 ?
HEALTH!
You are always Poor
without Health, eveu if you are
Wealthy.
How did over 100,000 Sufferers
get Restored to
HEALTH?
By taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press is unanimous in praising up Herr
Jtassmussen and his wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies,
and his name has become a much-cherished and lasting
household word in every city, village and camp in the colonies.
m
The wonderful success of Herr Rassmussen , and the ever-
increasing patronage extended to his celebrated Herbal
Remedies by all classes of society, is bona-fide evidence that
they are effective and genuine.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered
ALFALINE REMEDIES!
Which have CURED OVER One Hundred Thousand Sufferers for Blood and Nerve Diseases.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of the Academic Pansienne des Inventeurs, France.
Honorary Member of, and liotanist to, the I.U.J.F.C.
Honourably Mentioned in “Centennial History of New South Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney, Bronze Medal, Melbourne, for h.s Herbal Remedies.
Author of “The KTatural Doctor.”
HERBAL REMEDIES:
Alfallne Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Ordinary course. 23/6, posted ; Special Powerful
Double Course, 43 6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3 -, 6/-, 12/- and 23 6.
Alfallne Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3 -, 6 -, 12 - and 23,6.
Allaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to eradicate Dandruff. Produces quickly
luxuriant hair. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautilier.
Beautifies the Complexion. 6/-, posted.
Alfallne Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes,
posted, 1,6 and 2,6.
Alia line Lock Fills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Blood. Purely Herbal.
Ordinary course, posted, 23 6; special powerful
43 6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
aifniinp. Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
Alfaline luicrual File Powders.
Excellent for internal use. Posted, 3/- and 6/-
Alf aline External File Powders.
Cure both Blind and Bleeding Piles. Posted, 3/- &6/
Alfaline Leucorrhoea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6, - posted.
Porous Plasters.
Believe pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Male and Female Syrinxes, Suspenders, and
other Specialties, kept in stock.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
IMPORTANT.—Make Cheques and Post Office Orders Payable to Hans Rassmussen.
whether you send to his Head Office, or to any of his Branches. Register Letters containing Money. All
Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover. All Correspondence strictly Confidential.
HERR ' RASSMUS SEN’S
Chief Laboratory and Head Depot for all the Colonies:
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT:... 150 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
""QUEENSLAND " HEAD~~DEPQT 160 Queen Street, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT 154 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
NEW ZEALAND HEAD DEPOT 91 Lambtor Quay, WELLINGTON.
“ The Fallacy of Saving” is Sonnenscheiu’s
last published book.
Thirty-four Malays have been brought to
Abrolbos Islands, West Australia. More to
follow. Australia for the yellow man !
“ General ” Booth has been left £20,000 —
by a woman, of course. His characteristic after-
action is a special effort to raise an additional
.£50,000 —to Salvationiso the Japs, and Yankees.
An interesting story is being told about a
row between divorce-plaintiff Te Kloot and the
N.S.W. Sheriff, in which row the N.S.W.
Minister of Justice took a hand.
Wales is getting grey and bald waiting to
step into Victoria’s shoes. The shoes he would
step into, if he had more brains than fall to the
average prince, are those made by T. E. Ellis,
Hunter-street, Newcastle, which are unequalled
for quality at the prices.
Bertie M‘Credie, a Sydney school-teacher,
nearly lost his life in trying to save three girls
from drowning, at Bathurst, on March 23. They
tried to cross the Macquarie in a buggy, and were
swept down by the water. M‘Creche risked his
life to save them without avail, and was dragged
ashore all but exhausted.
A mopoke has been added to London Zoo,
and this is how a local writer describes him : “ He
is a very fearful wild fowl, and is scientifically
known as belonging to the species described by
Cuvier as podargus. Why this extraordinary
bird is called in Australia more-pork is not known.
Probably, because he never gets enough pork, a
supposition that is supported by the size of his
mouth ; and the way he swallows mice is some-
thing to behold. The more-pork is regarded in
Australia as a bird of ill omen, and is reputed to
infect cattle with a malady. His favourite habit
is to sit on tombstones.”
The population of Chicago :
American, 292,463; German, 384,958; Irish, 215,534;
Bohemian, 54,209 ; Polish, 52,756; Swedish, 45,877 ; Nor-
wegian, 44,615 ; English, 33,785 ; French, 12,963; Scotch,
11,927: Welsh, 2,966; Russian, 9,977; Danes, 9,891;
Italians, 9,921 ; Hollanders, 4,912; Hungarians, 4,827 ;
Swiss, 2,732 ; Roumanians, 4,350; Canadians, 6,984; Bel-
gians, 682 ; Greeks, 694 ; Spanish, 292 ; Portuguese, 34 ;
East Indians, 28 ; West Indians, 37; Sandwich Islanders,
31; Mongolians, 1,217.—T0ta1, 1,208,669.
Here you have what the after-dinner orators of
Australia and England call “the great Anglo-
Saxon race.” And all this mongrel tribe, in the
course of the next 50 years, will be converted into
English-speaking people, pushing steadily forward
the destinies of the great American nation.
They don’t tell this yarn in Gath, or shout
about it in Askelon, but it is true all the same
that the London and Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 Erskine-street, have received a splendid ship-
ment of autumn and winter tweeds, from which
Manager Baumashe undertakes to make you the
most stylish and satisfactory suit to be seen in
Sydney.
An (evidently Irish) correspondent writes:
The Old Anglo-Saxon Myth was talked to death at the
recent Mutual Life of New York ceremonial at Sydney.
Let us look at facts. The Anglo-Sixon supplies one-
fourth, the Latin three-fourths, of the English vocabulary.
In an article in the Universal Review, some years ago,
Grant Allen showed that the increase of Britain's urban
population was due to the Celt. The Irish and the High-
landers have overrun Dundee, Glasgow, and Edinburgh ;
the Irish and Welsh have done the same in Liverpool,
Hristol, Birmingham, and Manchester ; Exeter and Ply-
mouth were recruited from Celtic Cornwall. A Londoner
of the third generation is a rarity', and so with other large
cities. In America and Australia the immigration put
down as Anglo-Saxon is really more Celtic. Then take
the test of Anglo Saxon physical prowess. The crack
army-corps are almost purely Celtic, as witness the Irish,
the Highlanders, and the Welsh Fusileers. Take that
Anglo-Saxon institution, the prize-ring. The great
fighters have been Irish, or of Irish descent, or else they
hail from the West of England. The wrestling districts
of Devon and Cornwall, and Cumberland and Westmore-
land, are as Celtic as Mayo or Inverness* The purely
Saxon districts of England—the Eastern counties—are
almost stationary in population and have never produced
a great pugilist. It is true that Mace was born in Nor-
folk, but then he is a pure-bred Gipsy. Carefully analysed,
the Anglo-Saxon is a fraud, claiming virtues that are
purely Celtic.
All the rage in Paris. Send 13 penny
stamps for latest Parisian preventative. National
Drug Oo., Russell-st., Melbourne,
The Bulletin has much pleasure in pub-
lishing the attached letter Editor Bulletin, I
noticed with great regret that a recent story,
“A Bush Wedding,” fell far below The Bulletin’s
usual standard. It did not contain a murder, nor
a ghost, nor the usual mixture of blood, hair, raw
flesh and other slaughterhouse details such as The
Bulletin generally dishes up for its readers as
samples of Australian literature. Beyond the fact
that the story was gloomy and full of never-ending
ram and dreariness and diluted melancholy, there
was nothing in it to inspire the reader with feelings
of wretchedness and general depression of spirits.
Hence this complaint. For the story to run in the
usual Bulletin groove, the bride ought to have
cut her throat for no particular reason except that
it is the correct thing according to the gospel of
The Bulletin. After that the bride’s mother
should go mad and start writing Bible-texts with
the blood on the floor. By-and-by, the bridegroom
should come along suffering from a bad attack of
the horrors, and, just as a first-class novelty, he
might split himself open with a carving knife and
hang himself with a rope twisted out of his own
entrails. The surroundings might be brightened
up with a few picturesque details such as some
crows picking the eyes out of a crippled sheep, and
a dead infant or two in the water-butt. A couple
of revolver shots, a knife-stab and a few groans
added would have made up a typical BULLETIN
story. Why does the Bulletin continually wallow
in olood and yet object to the cat? Two of a
trade, perhaps !
COBODONG.


CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
Amusements.
FILLIS’S. FILLIS’S. FILLIS’S.
FILLIS’S.
Fillis’s Circus!
EVERY
EVENING m- EVENING
MAMMOTH—{ TENTS }--MAMMOTH
erected opposite
Redfern Railway Station.
The Coming EASTER Attraction.
/ ONE SHILLING 1
1 ONE SHILLING j
Best Shilling Entertainment in Sydney
PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALSI
SPLENDID
OPENING PROGRAMME.
Embracing 20 Items.
THE REALISTIC AND EXCITING
STAG HUNT
STAG HUNT
_ .
Introducing 100 Ladies, Gentlemen and
Horses.
MATINEE MATINEE
Next Saturday Afternoon, at 3 o’clock,
When Children will be admitted to all
parts for
Bd. _Mi tST 6d.
Popular Prices of Admission ;
Dress Circle, 3/-; Stalls, 2/-; Gallery, 1/-
Special Reserve, 47-
Children Half-price (Gallery excepted).
MENAGERIE MENAGERIE MENAGERIE
MENAGERIE MENAGERIE MENAGERIE
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
“THE SHAMROCK AND THE ROSE."
Saturday, April 7, Grand Revival of
Th.e Liglita o’ Xioudon.
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Oast.
Mew Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
CRITERION THEATRE
Lessees .. Frank Thornton and Charles Arnold.
I. AST THREE NIGHTS! LAST THREE NIGHTS I
and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
The THORNTON-ARNOLD COMPANY.
To-Night (Thursday, April 5) To-Night
‘ Hans tlae Boatman..’
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough & Boucicault.
I-AST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“ NIOBE."
Saturday, April 7, and for Six Nights Only,
•• DANDY DICK.”
A LBURY MISSING WORD COMPETI'
A TIONS. DOUBLE GUBSSES-No. 6.
“ Self-defence was the object aimed at when arming
the Sydney police with revolvers. H the weapon is other-
wise employed, constables will become particularly
citizens, and cause more alarm to the public than to the
burglar and garrotter.”
CLOSES SATURDAY. APRIL 14.—Every Competitor
allowed two guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O.
Order, 1/1 if in stamps. Add exchange to Postal
notes other colonies. Total amount (less 10 per cent.)
divided amongst successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited, in a sealed envelope, with
Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known Albury Bookseller.
No. 5 Competition paid £3 14s. to each successful com-
petitor.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
Government Notice*.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 3, 1894.
r I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a. in. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL U.
Bridge, Cooma Creek, Sharpe-street, doom a
Alterations, &0., Bridge over the Hunter River at
Red bourneberry.
Construction of a Wharf and Approach thereto,
at Seven Oaks, Macleay River.
Construction, &c., of Paper Bins, Galleries, &0.,
Lands Office, Sydney.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25.
Construction of Wharf and approach thereto at
Goodwood Island, Clarence River.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
YTELBOURNE and METROPOLITAN BOARD OF
WORKS.
LOAN or £500,000, at 4i per Cent., for 12 Years.
Minimum, 98. Tenders opened 11th APRIL, 1894.
Deposit, 10 per cent. Interest payable Half-yearly.
Yield to Investors at 98 .. £4 14s. sd. per cent, yearly
Yield to Investors at 99 .. £4 12s. 3d. per cent, yearly
Yield to Investors at par .. £4 10s. per cent, yearly
Tender Forms and all information given, and Tenders
lodged by GEORGE D. MEUDELL (member of Stock
Exchange, Melb.), 59 Queen Street, Melbourne.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
BY
" PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE Is by Post Is. Bd.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
In Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Directors:—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES 11. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ; J. T.
WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.l'.; A. W. MEEKS,
Esq., J.F.: ROBT. J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
Accumulated Funds ... ... Over Eleven Millions sterling
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over
One Million sterling.
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, SECRETARY.
Clothed. with Air.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Excellent for Walking, Dancing, Riding, Boating or Tennis.
Fitted throughout with Real Whalebone, and cut on the
very latest French model.
They allow perfect freedom of action, and possess the
additional advantage of being porous, by which they are
rendered delightfully cool in hot weather.
The structure, though soft and supple, retains its shape
to the very last.
Made in Long and Short Waists—Ecru or Black.
Prices: Ids 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 9d, 17s 9d.
A cheaper make in White Cotton at 8s 6d.
Combinations, Bodices, Chemises, Drawers, Night-
gowns, Under Vests,
In Lisle Thread, Cotton Merino, Silk and Cotton and Wool.
Price Lists, Pamphlets and all particulars from the
Agents.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
(Near Hunter Street)
305 & 307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
V
py
3aih.i-
NEW BOOKS.
ds
WHAtI
Cupipl
Publications.
George robertson and company,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE and LONDON.
Braddon (Miss), All Along the
River, picture boards, 2s, p.
2s 4d ; Ditto ditto, cloth, 2s 6d, p. 2s lOd; Winter (J. S.),
The Sou! of the Bishop, picture boards, 2b, p. 2s 4d ; Hun-
gerford (Mrs.), The Hoyden, Ss 6d, p. 4s; Merry Min-
strelsy, Is, p. Is 2d ; Hare, Last of the Bushrangers, new
edition, 3s 6d, p. 4b ; Serao, Farewell Love, 3s 6d, p. 4s;
Tolstoi, Kingdom of God, 3s, 6d, p. 4s.
NEW AUSTRALIAN PUBLICATIONS.-The Modera-
tor’s Address, 1894, 6d, p. 7d ; De Lissa, Companies Work
and Mining Law, 10s 6d. p. 11s ; Gibson, Ironbark Chips
and Stock-whip Cracks, ss, p. 5s 5d ; The Antipodean, '94,
illus., Is, p. Is 3d; M‘fver, Neuroomia,picture boards, 2s,
p. 2s 4d; Warung (Price), Tales of the Early Days,
boards, 2s, p. 2s 4d ; Ditto ditto, cloth, 2s 6d, p. 2s lOd ;
Town Hall, Sydney, a beautiful steel engraving by
Daniel Forbes, Is, p. Is Id.
GGO. KOBE BISON and CO.,
861-363 Georgs Street, SYDNEY.
JUST PUBLISHED.
TALES OF THE EARLY DAYS
(By Price Warung).
Picture Boards, 2s .. .. Posted, 2s 4d.
Cloth, Lettered, 2s 6d .. .. Posted, 2s lOd.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO..
361-363 George Street, Sydney.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia," “William
Tell," “ Faust," “Uu Ballo in Masohera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots." Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl's Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6; post free.
"Kush for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
Sost, 26. Secrets of
ature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3,6; by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/.; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price I/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Beiant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 12.
Aristotle, complete, 3,6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
I/*, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1,2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 16. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, & 0., 1/6.
The Silent Friend,’ by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and publio
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1,3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. R. BEAR., Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
CHEAP MUSIC.
‘•PLAYFELLOWS.’’
This popular Song, by the composer of “After the Ball,'
and 1000 other popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &0., at Bd.
each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO.. LONDON,
AND
203 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
For 15d. in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Waning.”
TORONTO HOTEL,
LAKE MACQUARIE.
Terms: 7/- and 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
Access easy. Train direct from Sydney or the
North.
H. A. BRETT, Man AG Lit.
?*OMARTI
■
v.o
CRO
n
m
Ymsw.
CIECNLCCS BROTHERS
OUSCOH LOUDON AND
Business Announcements.
V.O.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
3r*rice Bs. 6dL.
joRI (JeNRY h|EATIf9
TRADE MARK
\
gOSX tC tfOOlr
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. 6d.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
a. SC. SMITH & SOM,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Clotlied. with. Air.
Cellular Aertex Underclothing,
For Comfort during Hot Weather.
A POSITIVE SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS.
Recommended by Medical Faculty.
Just Opened:
Ecru Lisle 6s.
Extra fine and light for tropical wear. Specially re-
commended as being easily washed, unshrinkable and
very durable.
Extra LIGHT MAKE in WAY and WItKSS SIEIKTS,
with best Linen Fronts and Cuffs and Lisle Thread Bodies,
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Caps. Pyjamas,
Braces, Belts and Hosiery.
Pamphlet, Price Lists and full particulars,
BRAHAM Si MUTCH, 75 King Street, Sydney.
mx.
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Is. and 2s. 6d.
M. BEETHAM &.SON, Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Medical.
I CURE FUS
AND TO PROVE IT
i i T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what 1
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
08,O’Connell St., N. Adelaide, S.Australia
H. G. HOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Hair Will Go Grey.
V
♦•Vw
GOOOH'S
ELECTRIC WASH
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only being: necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.).
Importer of Human Hair.
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
IMPORTANT MEDICAL NOTICE.
Dr. CLINTON, M.D., F.E.C.S.
(registered),
Late Physician to Special Hospitals for Diseases of Women,
Cancer and Consumption, may be CONSULTED DAILY
from 12 to 4, at 10 lluiuer Street (opp. Tram), or
Stratbflcld (opp. Council Chambers). Dr. CLINTON
has lor years made a special study of the abovenamed
diseases, and has bad a wide experience in the chief
Special Hospitals devoted to their treatment, both in
Europe and America, and bolds certificates from the lead-
ing specialists of the present day.
DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Many years devoted to this important Specialty enables
Dr. Clinton to offer the soundest and beat advice, and his
treatment has proved eminently satisfactory in hundreds
of cases.
DISEASES OF THE CHEST.
As House Physician for two years to one of the largest
Special Hospitals lor Consumption, and as Assistant to
leading Specialists in Berlin and Paris, Dr. CLINTON has
enjoyed unusual facilities for studying these particular
diseases.
CANCER.
The most trustworthy and latest scientific treatment is
guaranteed, and those suffering from this dreaded
disease are invited to consult Dr. CLINTON, who has
probably had a wider practical experience in this disease
hau most medical men.
NERVOUS DISEASES.
Those desirous of consulting a reliable registered
Physician of thirty years’ practical experience are invited
to do so either personally, or by letter, in strictest con-
fidence. As House Surgeon to the London, Paris and
Vienna Special Hospitals, and as Clinical Assistant to
Professors Ricord and Brown S£quard, Dr. CLINTON baa
ad an unique experience.
CONSULTATIONS.
Moderate Fees (consistent with able advice and a life’s
experience) including medicine.
COUNTRY PATIENTS
Unable to personally consult Dr. CLINTON are invited to
correspond by letter, entering fully into details. Every
case will be most carefully considered, and the fullest
directions for treatment, including sufficient medicine for
one week, will be forwarded, post free, securely packed, on
receipt of ONE GUINEA. Resident patients received.
Highest references and hundreds of Testimonials.
Dr. CLINTON* M.D., F.E.C.S.,
70 Hunter Street, Sydney, and Strathfield.
ELECTRIC PILLS.—For General Debility,
Weakness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseurs,
M.D., Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in
the world.) Electric Pills are the most speedy
and most powerful remedy in the world. One
box will be sufficient, and in even the weakest, the
oldest, and most shattered, work a miracle, while
perfectly harmless, leaving no bad after effects.
Guaranteed Never to Fail, Worth their weight in
gold. Price, 10s. 6d., post free, from the sole
agent, W. PARSONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke-street
east, Melbourne.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in te n
minutes than ail the years you've lived. Weak men cured*
Treatise on Manhood Free. Write. Prof.
French Specialist. 46 Collins Place East, MELB.
A 52
POSITIVELY CORES aU
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuohorea, &0., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
8s 6d. Prepared only by J. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
RUPTURE CURED
FOR FIFTY SHILLINGS!
Hilgard, Oregon, June 28,1893.
Db. Pierce & Son.—Gentlemen: 1 am happy to In-
form you that the Truss 1 bought of you last April has
completely cuked me of » very severe case of Hernia,
from which I have suffered for over 18 years, I was
/rather sceptical about your Truss when I bought it, as 1
had tried several so-called Elastic Trusses withoutdcriv-
lug any benefit from them; but after using your Truss for
a short time 1 was convinced that it was the best lever
bad, as i t was easy to wear, and seemed to stop the severe
pains that often prostrated me while wearing the old/
Spring trusses; and now, in spite of my scepticism, lam /
Perfectly Cured, and can work with the Trussofflfl/
feel so disposed, but I still wear it loos.ely as it is not I
inconvenient. You may add the above to your other/
testimonials. Gratefully yours, FRED. HANSEN.
OWTho above cure was effected in less than three j
months time, at a total cost to the patient df £2.9.5./
Thousands of similar cures have been made. Pam-
phlet mailed to any address. Write for It TO-DAYI i
Postage,2Md, Address Magnetic Elastic/
Truss Company, 704 Sacramento street,’/
San Francisco, U. S. A, Please mention this paper,/
Our Sydney Agents,
MESSRS. WASHINGTON H« SOUL & CO.,
of 158 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Keep a Complete Stock of Dr, Pierce’s Celebrated
Trusses for Adults and Children.
83S i "“ Send to them for KREE Descriptive Pamphlet
No. 1, with Price-list, etc.


Coleman© & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Colemane & Sons’Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Colemane & Sons’ Yic, Ointment is marvellous.
Musical Instruments.
XMAS boxes:
To every Header of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away!! (only 3O 9 000)
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and you will receive
in return a 4s. Song, Waltz or Plauo Piece,
FKE E !
HOWARD & CO. have a List of <£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Remember this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
Gruns & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
* parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
6<3L. per week 6d
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK 1
At 2d. and 3d. each— Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
3d. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
-Merchants .V Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Piauos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, &c,
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers, "®Ji
HOW BABIES SUFFER
From Torturing Flumors
When their tender Skins are literally On Fire with Itching and
Burning Eczemas and other Itching, Scaly, and Blotchy Skin and
Scalp Diseases, none but mothers realize.
To know that a single application of the Cuticura Reme-
dies will, in the great majority of cases, afford instant and complete
relief, permit rest and sleep, and point
to a permanent and economical (because
so speedy) cure, and not to use them
without a moment’s delay, is to be guilty
of positive inhumanity. [ No greater leg-
acy can be bestowed upon a child than
a skin without blemish and a body nour-
ished with pure blood.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies, are absolutely pure, and may be used from pimples to scrofula,
from infancy to age, with the most gratifying and unfailing success.
Treatment, Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
skin purifier and beautifier, externally, instantly allay the most intense itching, burn-
ing, and inflammation, soothe and heal raw and irritated surfaces, clear the skin and
scalp of crusts and scales, and restore the hair, while Cuticura Resolvent, the new
blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor remedies, cleanses the blood of all
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus removes the cause.
*!,A lt ." about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations,
xoo testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap,
85c.; Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp’n, Boston, U. S. A.
red, rough, and oily skin and
hands, and simple humors
and skin blemishes of infancy
*nd childhood are prevented and cured by that most effective of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the
celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps,
while rivalling in delicacy and purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only pre-
ventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of most facial blemishes. Price, 25c.
$
%
Pimples, Blackheads,
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- EL3DRIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the yearsyou’ve lived. Write. Prof. HER.
MANN, French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELB.
QUEENSLAND SADDLERY.
A LL in want of the above should call on or send for
price-list to
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
supplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
pEAF NESS
HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and Perfect Hearing Restored.
Comfortable to wear and invisible. Illustrated
book of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps.
A. M. MAST, 49 ELIZABETH ST., MELB.
ik
■
h
/
THE
MOST
DELICIOUS
SAUCE
IN
THE
WORLD.
It makes cold meat a luxury.
Makes the plainest viands palatable.
Agrees with the most delicate digestion.
Possesses a pleasing piquancy.
Blends admirably with all gravies.
muL i
■
■CELEBRATI
eedsu
tp^l
■
m
SIMPLY PERFECT WITH CHOPS, STEAKS, FISH, &C.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Tillock & Co., Sent & Liverpool Streets, Sydney.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Prospectus.
MONSTER
rmiOLD PROPERTT
Distribution,
£59,401 Worth of Freehold Property,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue :
59,401 Shares of £1 Each.
NO LIABILITY".
Committee of Management, Queensland:
C. VV. MIL SON, Esq., M.L.A.
j. T. ANNEAR, Esq., M.L.A.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P.
Committee in N.S.W.:
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P., Macleay.
S. BONO, Esq., J.P., Ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
UOBT. HAYES, Esq., Kempsey.
Bankers:
The Commercial Bank of Sydney.
Solicitors:
Messrs. THYNNE & McCARTNEY.
118 PRIZES as under:
Ist Prize, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643;
2nd prize, £6721; 3rd prize, £6OOO ; 4th prize, £5813;
sth prize, £3OOO ; 6th prize, £2720; 8 prizes from £2560
to £1650 ; 13 prizes from £BB5 to £5O, 23 prizes of £45
each ; 49 prizes of £26 10s. each ; 19 prizes of £2O each.
List Closes 31st March .
All moneys received are banked to credit of the Com-
mittee without deduction.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of Properties. Application for
SHARES must be made to the Secretaiy, BARRON
L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street, BRISBANE ; or
“Secretary,” care of C. SMITH, No. 24 Imperial Arcade,
SYDNEY; or “Secretary,” care of J. RICHARDSON,
W. Kempsey, N.S.VV., from whom all particulars may be
obtained. Enclose two addressed envelopes with un-
attached stamps; add exchange if cheque sent. Register
letters.
ml
Business Announcements.
LADIES’
HATS
MADE
TO
ORDER.
ANY WIDTH
BlllM.
TEH. A.IT.
Witli Puggaree, 2/- extra.
B. Moimtcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
CHAS. ANDERSON,
TAILOR,
30 & 32 Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
Best Materials. Perfect Fitting.
MODERATE PRICES.
Patterns, Prices L Measurement Forms
ON APPLICATION.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaviim
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair’
Crop hair, best English hair, All -lengths, gauze, silk net’
yvig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
ANTIQUE Oil. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
«80 A 688 George Street, Sydney,
N^-OTICE.— Advertisements for Current Week
1 n cannot be received LATER than Ipm on
TUESDAY. P
F. G. Dalgefcy’s demise cabled—one of the
last of the old Melbourne merchants. It is said
he made .£30,000 by one gold shipment to London,
in 1852.
Maoriland has a sporting timber-carter,
who is a hard case. At the end of last summer a
creditor wrote him saying that if his debt was not
paid at once he must send the carter to gaol. The
latter replied that as the summer was over and the
roads were cutting up badly he would like to go
to gaol till they dried again.
Dear Bulletin, —Be centipedes and their
cannibal tastes. “Northern Territory’s” version
agrees with my experience, a similar incident
having come under my notice years ago. The
young ones were not counted, but there were many
of them—as many as the old lady could straddle,
yet she “scoffed” them all. “ John J. Kenny ”
evidently discovered his specimens when the young
were too old.— Moomoonilla, Toowoomba (Q.),
Feb., 1894.
Dear Bulletin, —Be late par. as to leprosy
in Australia. You say there is a strong feeling
among the Northern Territory whites that it
exists among the aborigines. The same feeling is
rife among such of the N.Q. whites as are in a
position to know. I can speak of the Wide Bay
and Burnett district and of Fraser’s Island,
Harvey’s Bay. One undoubted case of leprosy,
an aboriginal, was taken by the police from Tin
Can Bay ; and I know of another case, a gin, who,
when last heard of, was on Outer Beach, Fraser’s
Island. Although never having heard before of
the Chinaman’s prophecy, that is how the whites
I speak of account for its spread among the blacks
—from the Chinaman to the black gin.—T.M.,
Maryborough, Q.
There is something uncanny about the
Twofold Bay (N.S.W.) killers, the big fish which
round up whales into the Bay for the whalers
to harpoon—just as a well-trained cattle dog
would round up a mob of bullocks—for which
service they expect to get a big feed when the
blubber is stripped. The same killers have been
about the Bay since the earliest remembrance of
the oldest local blackfellows, who have a supersti-
tion that after death they are resurrected in the
forms of these marauders. One ancient darkey
told the writer in all seriousness that years ago an
old hump-backed black died, and that a few days
afterwards a fresh killer came into the Bay with
a hump on him just like that worn by deceased.
The successful removal of Piles of the
most stubborn description is being effected by
Sharp’s new “ Cannalin ” treatment, large quan-
tities of which are being forwarded to sufferers
throughout the colonies. It is obtainable, with
advice, from 257 George-street, Sydney.
That good old newspaper heading, Sad
Case of Drowning,” grows wearisome. If all cases
of drowning are sad, the daily-paper man might
as well take the sadness for granted ; and if they
are not all sad then it is about time for the cheer-
ful case of drowning to come along.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
%
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Paulding & Co., and P, Falk & Co., Adelaide ; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
A Man of Prey and a Woman of
Action !
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Towards Singapore, out of the sunset-
glare, along, slashing schooner came spanking in
before the south-west monsoon at a pace which
procured for her, from prahu, lorchaand sampang,
an uncommonly wide berth. Off Pulo Panjan,
however, the stranger put his helm down, got in
his square canvas and went away, close-hauled,
west-by-north along the coast.
“ See that, Sam?” and Proddy, of Proddy and
Newman, let his cheroot go out as he gaped after
the flying schooner. Proddy had been over to
Bintang, and Sam was skipper of his little steam-
yacht.
“Ay, sir, I see that; an’ I see the reason of it,
too ! ” and Sam pointed to a streaming wisp of
yellow at the top of a headless palm on Panjan
Point. “Schooner hauled her wind the instant
that bit o’ bunting went aloft! ”
“ Private signal, eh ? And quarantine colours,
too ! Devilish odd ! Don’t concern us, though !”
and Proddy, the pot-bellied, lit another Manilla.
♦ • *
Over the domestic establishment of Simon
Proddy, Esquire, presided a lady who rejoiced in
a stearine complexion, a velvety eye, and hair for
length and blackness like unto a horse’s tail, but
who, despite French habiliments and an English
education, was a Chinawoman pure and simple.
“A wonderful woman, sir!” would Proddy
say. “Worth any half-a-dozen white women I
ever knew ! And the best of it is that ‘ her sisters
and her cousins and her aunts ’ are God-knows-
where ! Couldn’t quite stand them, you know !”
But, all unknown to Proddy, his brevet-wife
possessed a father—a sophisticated old sinner, who
dabbled with dubious irons in mysterious fires,
and carried about as much rascality to the
square inch as any he in Singapore. And little
thought Proddy, when he one day ordered off his
premises a doddering, old, spectacled Chow, that
into the astute brain of Mrs. Proddy’s respected
parent there had that very moment been born a
scheme for the conversion into a valuable security
of his, Proddy’s, substantial person.
# # •
Well up the old Singapore Strait the
mysterious schooner had let-go her anchor.
In here, between the back of the island and the
mainland, the sou’-wester came but faintly, and
the Raphael H. Semmes, under lee of Tanjong
Belu, lay stirless and silent upon an inky mirror.
Her forestay showed no “ riding-light,” nor
through the tarpaulin-blinded skylight could come
any glimmer from below, where lounged a frock-
coated and pot-hatted little man, of slender build
and mild, reflective eye—there wasn’t much to
indicate the most reckless desperado the Archi-
pelago had ever seen. A deserter from the
famous Alabama, during her visit to the
Straits in ’65 —“ Croeky ” Dixon hud since
sailed slap through many a law of many
a nation ; and, though report perhaps exagger-
ated in asserting that he ought long ago to have
adorned a yard-arm, it was certain that he hadn’t
acquired his pleasing appellation for nothing.
But now the “ Crocodile,” with a black Trichin-
opuly in its jaws and a bottle of Madeira at its
elbow, appeared “ a gentle beast enough, and of
an excellent conscience” —a fact which, to those
who knew the reptile best, boded very ill for
somebody.
# # #
“ At here, master, now come. Very
great thing to want to settle at now quick.”
Away amongst the jungle, towards the back of
the island, Proddy had a gambier-plantation, the
overseer whereof was Wiiang-Lo, and Whang-
Lo’s English, as above presented, Proddy under-
stood well enough. But what he didn’t under-
stand as he told the lemon tinted Mrs. Proddy—
was, what the devil it could be that required his
presence in such a hurry ! If it was another coolie
nabbed by a tiger he’d wake the authorities up
to some purpose! The brutes were breeding on
the island like rabbits, and the reward wasn’t
quarter big enough !
About an hour after Proddy, growling thus,
had departed into the darkness, Mrs. Proddy,
idly turning over Whang-Lo’s screed, discovered
on the back thereof three tiny Chinese characters,
of which—so far had English displaced her here-
ditary language—she understood but one. That
one, however, was enough ! —it signified “danger”
—and in three minutes Mrs. Proddy was on her
way to the nearest police-tannah.
“ Do not come !” translated the old Javani ser-
geant—“ Danger ! —the crocodile ! The true word,
this, on back !” he added promptly. “Bad men
make he write the other !—this when nobody look,
he put, so Missa Proddy no come !” And then,
with Mrs. Proddy, the acute old man sent off a
peon to the central office. Here she had a short
interview with the Superintendent, who, in turn,
had, 20 minutes later, a short interview with the
Lieutenant commanding H.M. gunboat Tickler.
“Oh ! that ruffian Dixon !” Lieutenant Dawson
said. “Why, we’re getting steam up now to go
round and see what he’s about at the back of the
island ! What d’ye make of this Proddy busi-
ness ?”
“Case of ransom, I take it! This Dixon’s
brought off something of the kind before up
Penang way. They’ve nabbed old Proddy at his
plantation by this time I expect, and, if they can,
they’ll run him over to some den on the Bornean
coast, and keep him till Government or the mer-
chants come down with something handsome. The
so-called Mrs. Proddy’s father is about the biggest
scoundrel in Singapore, and I fancy he’s in this
job with Croeky. If so, the negotiations would
be made through him—but, meantime, it’s your
part to burst up this pleasing little arrangement
* # *
Old Proddy—for all his stomach—defended
himself like a pala,din, and had to be knocked on
the head with a boat-stretcher, so that he knew no
more until, peeping through a port at break of
day, he saw a misty shore slide slowly past him,
as, before a gentle air, the schooner stood eastward
under every stitch she could spread.
“Thet shore, Proddy Esquire, is Obin Island ;
from which little suekumstance you’ll jedge that
we’re a-standin’ to the eastward out of this here
hell-trap of a strait of yours. An’, as to whar
we’re a-takin’ you, Proddy Esquire—thet you’ll
find out before you’re a powerful deal older ! ”
“You’ll have the ‘Tickler’ after you before
you're much older! ” snorted the astounded
Proddy.
“ Hardly thet, Proddy Esquire ! You see there
won’t be no muss made about you before this
evenin’; and, as we’ll catch the monsoon strong
again in the offiu’, your footy little smoke-pot of a
‘Tickler ’ will jest hev the hull uuivarsal ocean to
overhaul for us by to-mor —Great Jefferson !” and
down went Crocky’s jaw, as, glancing through
the port, a slender trail of smoke led down his eye
to a little white hull just rounding Franklin
Point,
In three seconds Croeky was on deck —rapid,
resolute and cool. “ Chased sooner than we ex-
pected, lads ! No get-away, now, with Proddy
Esquire!—but, without him, I guess we’ll fix it !
Get the dingy over the side—smart, now ! We’ll
send his friends on a little ex cursion to rescoo
him from a wat-tery gre-ave !”
Within three minutes the dingy was adrift,
with a bit of canvas set for’ard, and Proddy—lest
he should dowse it—lashed to a ringbolt in the
stern-sheets, Down-by-the-stern the light little
craft walked smartly away to the eastward, what
time tiie resourceful Croeky, bringing the wind
upon his port-quarter, stood away due north,
between Obin and Tukang.
Aboard the gunboat there was no hesitation ;
reluctantly a course was shaped for the little waif,
scarce visible now against the sunrise, as faster
and faster the freshening wind drove her out to
sea; so that, by the time the drenched and stiffened
Proddy had been hoisted aboard the Tickler, the
namesake of the Alabama’s captain was being
warped into a winding offshoot of the Joliore
River, wherein, with topmasts housed, she lay
snug till dark. Then, with the ebb, she dropped
down again to sea, and sunrise found her well
away into the Gulf of Siam.
» » «
“Mrs.” Proddy had her reward —in two
instalments. The first, when before high Heaven
the grateful Proddy confirmed her wifely status ;
the second when, by the orders of the secret
society of which her estimable parent was an orna-
ment, her cook—a member, also, of the “ hoey ”
mixed something with her morning coffee that
speedily made of Proddy the inconsolable widower
he is to this day.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
Dear Bulletin, —“ What is it that is
radically wrong with the N.S.W. land-selection
laws?” To begin with, the area of the “full
block,” 2560 acres, is too large for one man, there-
fore the half is left (bar fencing) in virgin idle-
ness to harbour wild dogs and other vermin.
The fencing of such a block generally so cripples
a “ cocky ” that it is as much as he can do to pay
the first year’s rent; consequently, he can’t
employ outside labour, but has to drag out
a miserable existence until he is able to
borrow money from a bank. But then the
second stage is worse than the first. He now
leads a soulless life endeavouring to meet bank-
bills and advances, and the most he can do mean-
while is to provide bread and mutton for his
family—(en to one he has a large family. The
whole holding partakes of the character of the
owner. It is enveloped in an air of despondency.
The hut run up at the start is rarely replaced,
but remains to do duty as a dwelling until the
bitter end, and, generally speaking, a garden is
looked upon as an unholy luxury. It is human
nature to take as much as one can get, and the
fruit of experience to find out the mistake after-
wards. In the second place, the Land Act
pampers the “dummy” tribe, now flourishing
under the motherly eye of the squatter. If “ one
man one selection ” were the order of things,
debarring a man, having once selected, doing so
again, there would be little more dummyism.—
Yours truly, Rouskabout.
St. Peter’s Decision.
We notice that most of our recent murderers (Glassor
and Blantern in particular) have, in the words of the reli-
gious press, “found peace.’’ But what about Iheii
victims who had no time for repentance?— Banana-lane
Weekly,
One morn there came to Eden’s gate
A murdered man disconsolate;
And, as he listened to the din
Of seraph music louder growing,
And heard the s.veiling sounds within
Of joy in floods eternal flowing,
A smile illumed his pallid face
To think he’d gained that glorious place.
He knocked. St. Peter oped the gate,
A halo round his hoary pate.
“ Your name and business ?” “ Abraham Brown ;
I come to claim a harp and crown.
I’ve led a fairly virtuous life
As many a witness can betoken ;
I loved my children and my wife,
My word and trust were seldom broken.
I was cut off in manhood’s prime,
A victim to the hand of crime.”
St. Peter glared ; “And hopest thou,
With golden crown on graceless brow,
To ope the gate and enter in
Though slain in unrepented sin?
Dost think that thou art fit to stand
Amid that bright redeemed band
Of saints who slew mammas-in-law
And pockets picked with practised paw,
Of burglars bold who passed their lives
In cracking cribs and choking wives—
But who, in spite of all their past,
Were hanged repentant at the last?
Know’st thou that Sikes who murdered thee
Stands purified for Heaven?
And that the Reverend Paul MacPhie
Hath his assurance given,
That tho’ he die on gallows-tree
The soul of Sikes shall cleansed be
As pure as snow that’s driven ?
Bethink thee, Brown, if Sikes would care
To land in Heaven, all fresh and fair,
And find thee, unregenerate, there?”
Saint Peter turned—the band began,
The door was slammed on the Murdered Man.
P. LUFTIG.
“ In the old fiction they marry in the last
chapter and live happily ever afterwards—in
the new, they marry in the first chapter and live
unhappily ever afterwards.” —Ex.
Hordern Brothers, 203-11 Pitt-street (only),
Autumn season, 1894. The autumn season ha i
now set in, and our novelties for the season being
all opened out, we are prepared to give our
numerous customers even greater satisfaction with
our new goods than we have ever given. Our
goods for the autumn season having been person-
ally selected by our home buyer, Mr. E. Carr
Hordern, in the best home and continental
markets, is a certain guarantee of their extra good
quality and economic price. Write to us at once
for a copy of our Eashion Book of Costumes, for
autumn season, 1894. As we give all country
orders our personal attention, our country friends
are assured that their orders will go out the same
day we receive their letters. Parcels of drapery
sent to any part of the colony—free! free!! free!!!
Address your orders to Hordern Brothers, 203-11
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*


“ Men I ITave Smiled With.”
w
B STAY at B ruton
NHneT[noD
rF you VISIT Brisbane, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
CT lIMIIMIYr G-BAFTT.
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “ PALACE FAMILY HOTEL ” is a
Waterside Paradise.
VICTORIA
MOUNTAINS).
MOUNT
(BLUE
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
MOSS VALE.'
—IOODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
G
Station) is where we always stay.
QUIRINDI.
O’HALLORAN’S TERMINUS
Is Tin - Top.
hotel
ARM ID ALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
3V3Crs. I=». WSide’s
TATTERS ALI 'S HOTEL.
The Traveller’s HOME in New England.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVE XING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
Hennessy’s Queen’s Hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
Acknowledged to be the EIRST HOTEL in
Queensland, and patronised by their Excellencies
the Governors of Queensland (Sir H. Norman),
and of N.S. Wales (Lord Jersey).
Blue Mountain Hotel,
Near TOOWOOMBA.
To Meet the Times, the Prices in this POPULAR
SANATORIUM have been Reduced to 42/- per
Week FREE use of Buggies and Billiards.
Every Comfort as Usual. Conveyance meets
trains at Harlaxton on receipt of Letter.
HjiS ' e. EVERIXGHAM, Proprietor.
J SOMETHING NEW.
the club hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL in
Queensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
train. Private Suites. George A. G-odsall.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO,,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney.
66 rjTALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
Posted to any Australasian Address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
2-1 P.. t Street,' Sydney.
Medical.
! AJiD HEALTH RESTORED- Cured.
oar HO STOMACH DBUBfIENCK
Sand six Stamps for illustrated treatise on UrkthuaL
Treat jr/.sT. Every Wear, Nkrvohs and Dkbili-
tatkd Man should read it. DJ?. GEO. WALSH,
'"I Collins Street, Melbourne. i
*fcUEF FROM COUGH
INTEN MINUTES.
fsd
iALSAM
OF HOREHOUND.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY FOR
GOUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS, &C.I
“ invaluable for Bad Coughs and Colds.”
Mrs. Eason , Sleaford.
cold bv nil Chemists in bottles at Is. Bd., and 2s. 9d.
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 13.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Saturday, 28th
April, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s ” Missing Wori Competition Coupon.-Ho. 13.
x x
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin Jfi<- -■>
Sydney, in time to he received by Saturday, 28th April, 18. •
The Wyalong gold discoveries, following on those at Coolgardie, the Mur
chison, and elsewhere, have given Australia a lift which was never more a y
wanted. Some of these finds may prove only a repetition of the
delusion of Kimberley, but some, at all events, are genuine, and will o o muc
good to this distressful country.
Name
A ddress , —i —•
Missing Word __ ——
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received —no deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competi or,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B. - Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
“ Bulletin ” Series, KTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PTTBLISHED,
seco:lt:d EUDiiroisr
OF
“A Golden Shanty”;
Australian Sketches in Prose and Terse,
B j. “BULLETIN” WEITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
«
Bulletin ” Series, 3XTo. 3.
66
The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAITH! If 0.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewood.
opiniO3as of -fc-jb.© Press :
" The volume lakes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a par. The
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whiles and the natives in these faraway
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through iris narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who are fond of
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”—S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893. .
“No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Erneft Favenc, and the secret of this is that
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcely any other writer.
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under notice lie has given us some of
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain.” — Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893.
“ They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from long contact and keen observation, striking pictures of
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as happen in wild places
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men. ‘ The Last of Six ’is a terrible
tale of cannibalism, treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous, but which Mr. Favenc makes of
thrilling interest. ‘ The Haunt of the Jinkarras ’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, but is itself relieved from the
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesqnefic of conception, in which Mr. Favenc here and Here approaches Poe. This
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘ Spirit Led,’ which the great American might have written. ‘A Cup of Cold Water is, perhaps, the
best tale in a collection that should be widely read, and which forms a worthy addition to purely Australian literature.”— Daily Telegraph
July 15, 1893.
“ ‘ The Last of Six;’ and other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney: The Bulletin Newspaper Co ) This is a collection nf short but
graphic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the stories hero are good
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection. The present issue forms the tliii dof The
Bullet n scries of Australian reminiscences.” — Australian Star, July 15,1893.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


MITCHELL’S
—CELEBRATED—
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS— °
If leas, Mies, Hugs, Mosquitoes, Cork roaches,
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturerß. T. BELLEMEY, Chemist.
151 Kino Struct, SYDNEY (late Kidney's).
, Tlns ’ */“"• Boxes, 1/6. On receipt of stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1/9.
Let it he Thoroughly Understood
—THAT—
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Sole Manufacturer
OF THE
LION "
CELEBRATED
-rW.-rK
J S
trade mao^
BRAND
Confectionery .
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM-
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Box 1034, G.P.O.
Telephone 073.
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
CUTLE
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sliow Rooms s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Colljns Street, MELBOURNE
The IMPERIAL HOTEL,
WYKTYARD SQUA.RE, SYDKTEY
(Established over Thirty Years).
The most Homely, Comfortable and Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tariff, 10s. 6d. per Day.
WALT E R SIDNEY, Manager.
EPPS'S
GEATEFGL—COMFORTING
COCOA
W.S.W. FRESH FOOD
-FOR-
CREAMERIT
laa. One FoundL or Half-pound. F» a ts.
±ne BUTTER manufactured by this Co. is unequalled in Australasia. Brand “ GOLDEN STAR”
The Awards at the recent Royal Agricultural Show (21st March) were for ■
BUTTER (N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.)— First Prise for ONE CASE, not less than 501 b. weight, for Export
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd-First Prize for CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured for local consumption.
'a/ixo ICOIb3" ZFZESI3E3 rfox Oxssl.xxulsx'v h- r^T-
Thus the S.M. Herald of 22nd March : “ The principal feature of this year’s Show of these products was the excellent quality of this butter.”
Butter forwarded to all parts of City, Suburbs & Country
Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney. ■ Tr r., ..... *
H. PATESON, Manases.
HIFFT MIGHT!
Visit
MARK FOY’S,
Oxford Street (hyde park), Sydney.
SILKS
SERGES
BOOTS
SATINS
PLUSHES
CLOTHS
MILLINERY
SHOES
GLOVES
A journey to the Ladies’ Rendezvous will amply
repay you, and prove
A GOOD IDEA!
Mark Foy, Oxford Street, Sydney.
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
Board and Residence at Moderate Charges
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders.
<S
m
t&SSt
~ . Hr:
M
m-
m
m
mm
i
rnrtni.s ;
;
m
m
!■ Ha
m
m
I n
■ • > - ) 1
m
mgf fi
getting
INCLUSIVE or SEE ABATE TA BIFF, AS BE SI BED.
Luncheon, ala Carte., fro . ’,2.45 to 2 p.mi
0 . , Dinner, Table D'Hote, „ ti p.m. to 7.30 p.m„ 3s.
irfg P a rirsLciass o Meal. glVen t 0 th ® Cuhnary D °Partment, and Visitors may always rely upon
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
THE LAST OF SIX’:
