

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST,
r
Parsons 7 Flaked Oatmeal
XKe
Mining
— "
G. WATKINS SC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— . , ,
g.itfi Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ *Akd GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
*7
o
o
O
o
cc
<RAck<roCK>
■
o
0
&
o
si
<
v
R. A. SURVEY, Agent, 28 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl of Jersey,
Lord Caeinoton, etc.,
355 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING AND HAND BAGS, BTC.
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price,
Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port,
- c
~\J
/
2
o*
Z \
fHl
roX2
2SSS
The Oxford Hotel, King street, Sydney.
H. THORPE Pbopeietor.
g
m
9^
Before visiting toe Of/ write to the Manager for
Orel of Tariff, (prrcjpontfence promptly attended to.
Bernard’s
Pale Ale.
LIGHT, PURE & WHOLESOME.
PALATABLE & REFRESHING-
fox* it.
TjaMuM
J
I
Sole Agents in New Soutli 'Wales for Mes.al.-s4,
Clayton and Simttlewortlx.
STRIPPERS
and
WINNOWERS
of all
MAKERS.
BINDERS,
MOWERS,
REAPERS,
TWINE, OIL
and
DUPLICATE
PARTS.
Howard’s
*
Frame Binder
■*" “'"“-Vs
Howard’s Champion Pure
Manilla Binder Twine.
Howard’s
Ohampio n
Flax
Binder
Twine.
g
How ard’s
Special
Quality
Machinery
Oil.
Harvesting Machinery of
Every Description •
Write us for Catalogues and Price Lists-
Howard’s
Patent Orient Mower.
g
Wool Presses
and
Hay Presses
Of all
MAKERS.
SCOOPS,
and
ALL CLASSES
ol
AGRICULTURAL
Maaiinery.
j. & c. Howara, 280 & 28O2 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol. 14=—No. 7G6.J
[Saturday, October 20, 1894
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“THE BULLETIN” BOOK EXCHANGE.
On receipt at The Bulletin Office, Sydney, of Postal Order, Postal Notes, or Stamps equal
to the price stated, books in the subjoined list will be forwarded to any Australasian address :
Pretty Prosers.
The English language has the defects of its qualities. Macaulay made its best
eulogy when he said that in force, in richness, in aptitude for all the highest purposes
of the poet, the philosopher, and the orator, it is inferior to the tongue of Greece
alone. Now that science has complicated thought, even Greek must cede it pre-
cedence. For emotional speech the languages of Southern Europe are better fitted;
but the evolution of tongues has produced for the writer no intellectual instrument
so noble as English. Yet it cannot be played with. You must take it seriously, as
you take the British matron—in whose severe shape, indeed, a sculptor might fitly
idealise it. In the most delicious love-transports, an Englishwoman seems always
on the point of saying her prayers; and English is the finest language
111 the world to say one’s prayers in. Like its feminine type, it is too proper, too
rigid, too formal; it has an uneasy sense of its own dignity; it hovers continually on
tiie brink of anti-climax. It is a machine which goes when you wind it up, not clay
w iich lives to the touch of the modeller. You cannot throw up your cap and be a
boy with it, for it interrupts one as awkwardly as Mrs. Shandy. Its wardrobe is
incomplete : it has innumerable morning suits, evening suits, and even tourist suits ;
but never yet has English felt at home in dressing-gown and slippers. Once, when
Lamb persisted, it attempted to try them on, but how obvious its discomfort! with
what relief it donned again its starched shirt and chimney-pot ! And Mrs Grundy
never liked Lamb. J
Men of other nations feel the force, the breadth, the majesty of English, yet find
R ponderous and dull. It is brawny enough, and full enough; but Yin spite of
VV hitman) it is not limber enough. It can uproot a tree, but it cannot pick up a
pin; it can forge an ironclad, but it cannot crack a nut. Madame de Stael com-
plained that English was monotonous : its beauties were all melancholy : one would
think the English cloiuis had colored it and the English waves had made its harmo-
nies. How different Italian shining like a holiday 4 echoing like those musical
instillments which people have compared to scarlet! Then Southerners suffer serious
distress from superfluous English sibilants. Charles the Fifth antithetically said
that Spanish was a tongue for gods, and English for geese. French he kept for
one’s mistress. _ And readers of Dumas will remember that D’Artagnan only con-
sented to stay in London on condition that he should not be made to learn English.
This is not wholly Gallic prejudice, for unfamiliarity turns many of our ill-spelt
words into cacophonous monstrosities. Without entering the nightmare-realm of
polysyllables, look, for instance, at words like “struggle,” “kitchen,” “satisfy”
dissociating them from their meaning and regarding them as one would regard
unknown words in a foreign language. There are thousands of similar terms which
old custom has made sufficiently sweet to us, but which to strangers appear horribly
harsh and uncouth. J
Sibilants, short vowels, and consonant-collocations make it impossible to get the
color and vivacity of French prose into English, whatever the dexterity of a De
Quine ey may do for its melody. English cannot causer. The articles in London
journals meet you with a stiff' bow, or, at most, a friendly nod ; while Parisian articles
ai e smiling, chattering, and shaking both your hands in eager welcome. The
learning is generally on the foggy side of the Channel; but how gladly would we
baiter some of it for the sunshine of free-and-easy grace ! Compare, for example,
Patei with Sainte-Beuve the style of the one Galatea in marble, of the other
Galatea warm vyith life. Yet there is nowadays noticeable a stronger Enoffish
striving after delicacy and lightness of touch. Some of the sketches in the Speaker
and National Observer are models of literary form. R. L. Stevenson, who has
penned some of the prettiest prose in the language, is closely followed by J. M.
Barrie, Quiller Couch, and Barry Pain, gifted with more than Addisonian felicity of
diction. Gilbert Parker is less perfect; but Richard Le Gallienne brings a poet’s
hand to write his “Book Bills ” and his “Fancies,” and Grant Allen is an admirable
interpreter of the technicalities of science. The books mentioned below, of course,
appeal rather to cultured than to common tastes, and should only be bought by
people with a fine sense of sub-tones and side-aspects. For such they are classics.
“ YIRGINTBUS PUERISQUE,” by R. L. Stevenson.* Cloth, 6s. 6d.
Essays now well-known, but as fresh as Spring, and perennially charming.
“MY LADY NICOTINE,” by J. M. Barrie. Cloth, 6s. 6d.
A book chief among ten thousand and altogether lovely. One is almost inclined
to retract aspersions on the English language, seeing what delicate humor it is
capable of translating. The smoker who has not read it has not smoked.
“ NOUGHTS AND CROSSES,” by T. Quiller Couch. Cloth, 6s. 6d.
Surely the quaintest, sweetest stories ever penned, with art reaching its acme
in deliciously subtle simplicity.
“IN A CANADIAN CANOE,” by Barry Pain. Cloth, 4s.
Sketches, verses and stories varying in merit, but with keen thought and a
clever style at the back of all.
“ PROSE FANCIES,” by Richard Le Gallienne. Cloth, 6s. 6d.
A recent book of idyllic essays, throwing the glamour of imagination over the
desert of commonplace, and transmuting lead to gold by the alchemy of exquisite
prose. “ A Borrowed Sovereign ” should be read at least six times.
“ POST PRANDIAL PHILOSOPHY,” by Grant Allen. Cloth, 4s.
In these articles Grant Allen brings his scientific knowledge and scientific train-
ing to bear effectively on subjects of the day. He is invariably clear and suggestive,
and his tendencies make always for progress. And he tells us, by-the-by, in an essay
on “ The Struggle for Life among Languages ”
“ By the middle of the twentieth century, in all probability, English will be the world’s
dominant speech ; and the English-speaking peoples, a heterogeneous conglomerate of all
nationalities, will control between them the destinies of mankind. Spanish will be the
language of half the populous southern hemisphere. Russian will spread over a moiety of
Asia. Chinese, Malay, Arabic, will divide among themselves the less civilised parts of
Africa and the East. But French, German, and Italian will be insignificant and dwindling
European dialects, as numerically unimportant as Flemish or Danish in our day.”
Thus, in the stern prose of existence, utility conquers esprit.
NOTE.—As mori of the books mentioned are in strong- demand, some may
be temporarily out of stock. In such case, orders will be filed, and the books
forwar-tcl immediately on arrival of next shipment.
Wicked Woman Books.
“A SUPERFLUOUS WOMAN.” Cloth, 316 pp.; 3s. 9d.
In many points the best of the batch.
“ OUR MANIFOLD NATURE,” by Sabah Grand. Cloth, 271 pp. ; 3 S . 93
Short readable stories, with the sex-element prominent.
“ THE HEAN ENLY TWINS,” by Sabah Gband. Cloth, 679 pp. ; 7 S . 6d
Over long, but clever and attractive.
.“ IDEALA,” by Sabah Gband. Cloth, 269 pp.; 3s. 9d.
Suggestive, and rather dull.
“THE YELLOW ASTER,” by lota. Cloth, 317 pp.; 6s. 6d.
A smart and amusing book.
“DODO,” by E. F. Benson. Cloth, 441 pp.; 6s. 6d.
An excellent presentment of the Very Newest Woman.
“KEYNOTES,” by Geobge Egerton. Cloth, 4s. 3d. Y
Subtly, shamelessly audacious ; the cleverest and most unblushing of all
Listen, for example, to “my maid Belinda ” ;
“Sheisone bump of philo-progenitiveness, but she hates men. She says ; ‘lf one
could only have a child, ma in, without a husband or the disgrace ; ugh, the disgustins
men . Do you know, I think that is not an uncommon feeling amongst a certain* number
of women 1 have known many, particularly older women, who would give anythin* rin
God s world to have a child of ‘ their own ’ if it could be gob just as Belinda says, ‘ without
the horrid man or the shame.’ ” J ’ ut
Pleasant reading this for poor brow-beaten Man ! Lucky it’s “ if.”
■ ■' ——
Australian Books.
“FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE,” by Marcus Clarke, Cloth
472 pp., 2s. 9d.
The best Australian novel.
“ ROBBERY UNDER ARMS,” by Rolf Boldrbwood. Paper, 413 pp 2s 9cl ■
Cloth, 3s. 9d.
The second-best Australian novel.
“ POEMS, by HENRY CLARENCE KENDALL.” Cloth, 328 pp., Bs.
“POEMS, by ADAM LINDSAY GORDON.” Paper, 266 pp., 2s. 9d.; Cloth, 320
pp., ss. 3d.; Cloth gilt, Bs.
“POEMS, by J. BRUNTON STEPHENS.” Cloth gilt, 367 pp., Bs. Also, in
new edition—paper, 3s. 9d. ; Cloth, 6s. 6d.
“A GOLDEN SHANTY,” by Bulletin writers, Paper, 172 pp. Is. 3d.
“TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM,” by Price Warung. Paper, Is. 3d.
“THE LAST OF SIX,” by Ernest Favenc. Paper, 141 pp. Is. 3d.
Weighted, and Found Worthy.
“ MEMOIRS OP SHERLOCK HOLMES,” by Conan Doyle. Paper, 2s. 9d.
“AD VENTURES OP SHERLOCK HOLMES,” by Conan Doyle, Paper, 2s. 9A
First-class detective stories, strong and fascinating.
“THE WOMAN IN WHITE,” by Wilkie Collins. Paper, 9d.; Cloth, Is.
A cheap edition of the author’s masterpiece, well printed.
“IT IS NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND,” by Charles Reade. Paper, 9d.
Cloth, Is.
“ THE CLOISTER AND THE HEARTH,” by Charles Reade. Paper, 9d.
Cloth, Is.
Two of the best works of one of the foremost novelists of the age.
“ TESS op the D URBERVILLES,” by Thomas Hardy. Paper, 520 pp.; 2s. 9d.
A masterpiece of English fiction.
“CRIME ARD PUNISHMENT,” by Fedor Dostoibpfsky. Paper, 456 pp. 3s.
One of the most remarkable of Russian realistic novels.
“ THE ANARCHIST PERIL,” by Felix Dubois, Cloth, 6s. 6d.
A startling exposure of Anarchist ideas and methods, with many remarkable
illustrations culled from the Anarchist press.
The Permanent Force.
These are books deserving, in Bacon’s phrase, “ to be read and digested
books which every thoughtful-man should own and study.
“SOCIALISM,” by Graham. Cloth; ss. 6d.
“ THE STUDY OF SOCIOLOGY,” by Herbert Spencer. Cloth, ss. 6d.
“THE STORY OP AN AFRICAN FARM,” by Olive Schreiner. Cloth; 4s.
“ THE CRIMINAL,” by Havelock Ellis. Cloth, 3s. 9d.
“ POEMS,” by WALT WHITMAN. Cloth, 318 pp.; Is. 3d.
FABIAN ESSAYS IN SOCIALISM,” by several authors. Paper, 220 pp. Is. 3d.
“A PLEA FOR LIBERTY,” by several authors. Paper, 326 pp. 2s. 3d.


Medical.
B
>lll2 PHILLIP ST. SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,’’ and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
‘‘NERVOUS A SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of la.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing a'ter Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
-liiftes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
lee is offered? Dr. J. Vinds will, on receipt of £X !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
jure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weiki ess, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Vin6s with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
F am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Charge Nothing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Vin6s for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications /
Dr. JJEJCKBLL VI3XTES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney,
PLEASE QUOTE THIS .PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Wo Cure, 3NT o Fay.
'■W
l\\T\
electro
belt
m
m
THIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Beit which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
southing current that can he felt by the wearer through
ah WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
JO". If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. - Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Early Decay !
A T T men, young and old, suffering from
-■ • .I J I J Debility and Nervous Prostration,
caused through losses, lead a life of misery, the
reward of their ignorance and folly.
If you will have a CURE that is PERFECT as
well as CHEAP, and so SIMPLE that you can
D iCTOR YOURSELF, send your address, with
stamp for reply, and we will mail you (SEALED)
a description of an instrument worn at nights, a
never failing remedy.
Foreign Novelty Agency,
Private Box 347, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
GUARANTEED to cure sick
headache and every disease
of the liver, stomach and
bowels. A safe cathartic. Do
TVio 11 . , not afterwards constipate.
*he smallest and easiest to take. 40 in a vial.
g
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting /looms
Will be Pleased to Welcome hia Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. OIBBOSTS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
has made a life-long study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
And has discovered the quickest and surest means
of thoroughly curing them. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have
hitherto caused more misery and suffering than
any other kind of trouble that affects the human
frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from debility, should
consult him, for he is now enabled, quickly and
effectually, to remove the cause, and so prevent
life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps Hh Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
debil.it y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter. You
can either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will write you a candid opinion. If, in writing,
you do not feel competent to fully describe your
case, send fid. in stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will
send you, post free, the Latest Edition of his
Celebrated Work, in which you will find enclosed
a list of carefully-prepared questions that will
assist you in giving a true description of your
ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR, as in every case
undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS, a PERMANENT
CURE is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies. Patients are reminded that their letters
ARB DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
DR. GIBBONS,
137 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Miscellaneous.
—THE—
Wentworth Hotel
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No, 1583.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. ELDBIIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
\
KRUPP
Cha\h§|S
Every person suffering from any Nervous Com-
sdnt, from whatever cause arising, should procure
e of the above appliances; guaranteed to cure
mpletely and permanently the following com-
plaints :
I /spepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
tmbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
ervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Com-
lint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In-
gestion, Asthma, Piles , Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea,
>ccks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation,
fectivc Memory.
f Send for Treatise, FREE, in which the Belts
3 fully illustrated, the action of electricity on the
irvous System explained, and a lot of useful information
Nervous and Sexual Diseases given.
Address-The Krupp Galvanic Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Publications.
WHA
Cupi
sm
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6; post free.
“Kush for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, S/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by Q.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed 1 Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6: by post, 4/. Private Companion for Married
People j The wife’s Handbook, I/, j by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to beijgine an expert boxer autl
athlete, pi’icg 1/,. Pla’n Home Talk about the Tlumati
System, ne,w edition,, 200, illustrations,- by. Dr.} Pqptoi
«vbst xrem’Ha Fruits ofy Pnilospohy* Besant, Brad-
laugL prosecuted X/-, by /i post rg 1/2.' usAr.is-
totie, complete, 3/6, post 4/-, The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. R BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
NOW READY. POST FREE Is. 6<l.
m
m
i
The ballet
GIRL : Her Thea-
trical and Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
craoies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
India, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, post free Is. fid.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
be had only of Madams Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
w
ANTED, Complete Files of The Bulletin
of 1884 and 1887. Manager, Bulletin
Office, Sydney.
Medical.
LADIES 11!
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
29 York Street.
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
Female Pills for Irregularities, IPs. and 20s. per box,
guaranteed O.K.
DR. SPEER
A 52
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorrea, &c., &c,, either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Postal Notes. Prepared
only by COPP, Chemist, Dar-
lington, Sydney. Send stamp for
particulars.
NO
In the
a Rup-
liko J»r-
Elastic
Truss has
ands of
Springs.
CB'S
TRUSS
World wi.ll Retain
ture or give Relief
Pierce’s Magnetic
Truss. This Celebrated
radically cured thous-
cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
It can bo worn with, ease and comfort
Night and Day. PerfectfittingTrussessent by mail.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet No. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,San Francisco. Cal.
Or Washington 11. Son! «fc Co., 160 Pitt St.,
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents
BarrysTricopherous
fortheHAlß,
g
An elegant dressing, exquisitely
perfumed, removes all impurities
from the scalp, prevents baldness
and gray hair, and causes thehair
to grow thick, soft and beautiful.
Caution. None genuine without
tvade-mark ofßarolay&Co., 11, Y., affixed to each bottle.
g
FOR EVERY MAN!
Dr. DJSO. Walsh, D.R.C.D. <fe _S.
the most eminent Specialist in
Australia, treats successfully
Exhausted Vitality, Atrophy,
_ jiERYOUS AND PHYSICAL
DEBILITY, Varicocele, and al j, se ® if™
Without Stomach Drugging. NEW BO OK
FULLY ILLUSTRATED, WRITTEN FOR MEN
ONLYi posted sealed, 6 stamps. The be
consulted free. Address—Dß. GEO. WALSH,
131 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
England ~ via am brio a
by thd
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their iourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :—
SALOON £60 5s, to £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. Id.
STEERAGE £30 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Branch Passenger Office,
Moore Street, near G.P.O., Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling' at MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows: —
Passengers hooked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OP AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £60 to
£70, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
PROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney.
Medical.
French Safety Pills.
Extra Power. Restore regularity, any cause arising, when
everything else fails. Certain and speedy. Box, 7 6
(postal note); extra strong, 20/- Write Prof. HAUT-
MONT Hopetoun Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Melbourne,
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD m PARIS by
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations. I
ATKINSON’S
FRANGIPANNE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPHANOTIS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers. ,
J. & E. AT’-'TNSON,
24, Old Bond . „reet, London. •
GAIJTIOH J — Oi. j genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
jv Trade Mark—a “ White Rose” d
and address in lull.
•S
m
sv
■ c
Qualified Specialist in the Diseases of
MEN
Nervous, chronic, skin,
„and Special diseases of.
Treated with guaranteed success. Weak-
nesses removed and life made worth living
for. Fits, Bladder, and Kidney troubles
cured. Vigor, health, and manhood restored
WOMEN.
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle aged, and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire con*
fidence and. success.
All Consultations Free, and Curable Cases guaranteed.
Vigor PillS for lost vitality, debility and
weaknesses. 55., or 21s. for 5 boxes.
Female Pills for irregularities and obstruc-
tions. 10s. & 20s. per box. Guaranteed O.K.


Two out of every three Londoners suffer
more or leas from tuberculosis. This is proved by
the fact that in two-thirds of London post-mortems
tubercle is found to be present, though it may not
have been the direct cause of death. Moral :
Keep cockneys out of Australasia?
Napoleon 111. was a Dutchman. The
Dutch,admiral, Charles Henri Verhuel, was one of
the many lovers of the “ modern Messalina,” Hor-
tense,_ and it was he who was responsible for
“ Napoleon HI.” All this is set forth in detail in
the July Fortnightly.
At a recent anarchist meeting in Scotland
the chief speaker was a man lately imprisoned for
inciting td murder. He said that when in prison
him a 1 * Bible. He read it. “Itis a
book,” be says, ‘‘which preaches death to tyrants.
It is a book for anarchists 4 and revolutionists.”
Something to chew over, this.
“ Artemus Ward,” it appears, took his
pen-name from the real name of a famous general
who served under Washington. Who ever beard
of the famous General Artemus Ward before?
And who has not heard of Artemus Ward, the
humorist'? If the memory of Parkes is to be
rescued from oblivion, it will only be through
some future Australian comic writer copying -his
name from his using it in a similar
way.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
19 of this issue.
Prof. Halford (Melb.), discussing in his
new book on snake-poison the question whether
there is any antidbte, finally concludes that there
is not, and then, giving up the riddle in despair,
says that the “deadly virus of th j snake is de-
signed by some omnipotent power with infinite
will to which our own finite wills are remotely
allied. Can I or any other mortal being thwart
the design of nature?” If Prof. Halford talked
nonsense of- this kind to his University students
they would laugh at him. To apply carbonate of
soda to alleviate a bee-sting would be just as much
thwarting the “ design' of nature ” as using a
remedy for snakebite. Somebody must have dis-
covered that carbonate of soda is an antidote to
bee-sting—or did that “ omnipotent power with
will ” reveal it to Adam, or the first man
who came into opposition with the “ finite will ”
of the bee aforesaid ?
The Caligraph Writing Machine.
rjTHR CALIGRAPH embodies all the highest
B developments of applied mechanics, and its
principle having stood the test of 15 years, its
success towers above the fantastic devices of mush-
room competitors.
“ I like Caligraph writing better than that of
any other typewriter because the type comes out
so sharply and clearly.” The prominent Anglican
clergyman, who used these words, had hit upon
the chief characteristic of the Caligraph without
exactly knowing what brought it about. The
result is attributable to the fact that ths platen of
the Caligraph being bevelled the type strike
against a flat surface thus producing a full and
even impression. When you see typewriting with
only the middle of the letters clear you know that
the machine used was not a Caligraph, but one
fitted with the ordinary round platen. When you
read a typewritten letter, with some of the type
leaning to the right and the rest to the left, you
may be sure that your correspondent has a crude
machine, with curved typebars, which naturally
become more crooked, and thus twist their type
out of perpendicular. remember that the
Caligraph has straight typebars which, like every-
thing else in the machine, are fitted with adjust-
able bearings.
The'Caligraph manifolds 15 carbon copies at
one operation, and used with the Edison Mimeo-
graph reduplicates 1500 copies from one stencil.
J. E, Cunningham, 49a
Castlereagh Street; Melbourne, 0. S. Cunning-
ham, Ludstone Chambers, £)ollins’ Street; Bris-
bane, Webster & Co., Mary Street; Adelaide,
E. S. Wigg & Son ; Hobart, J. Walch & Son.
e
myceme
AND
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Cool and Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, Ac.
And preserves the THE SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually than any other preparation.
It is delightfully Cooling and Refreshing if applied to
the Face or,Hands after beii.-! on£ in. the Sun, Tennis-
playing. Yachting, &c. It removes all Heat and-In Ration
caused by the 'Sun, Stings of Insepts, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price iij England, Is. & 2s. 6d. Sole Makers:
M. BEETHAM & SON. England..
FELTON, QRIM-VVADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS.', Sydney.
ICUREFSTS
AND' TO * PROVE IT
{iy vvill GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
I nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of > testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE I
MV AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98,O’Connell St., N, Adelaide, S.Australia
vt. o. moot,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Business Announeements.
I
i
/gents-
DELlSSfl
SSPniaiPs
John Lawler & Sons,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8 & 10 UNION LANE, SYDNEY
(at rear of 008 GEORGE STREET, Premises lately
Destroyed by Fire),
Bedding and Wire Mattress Manufacturers,
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chair's and Furniture, Kapok,
Horsehair, Fibre and Fiax,
BAMBOO BLINDS, CANE CHAIRS, etc.
Mattresses Cleaned.
—AND—
RE-MADE BY STEAM.
WIRE MATTRESSES REPAIRER
—AND
STRENGTHENED.
Suites Re-covered & French Polished-
g
Established —
HALF-A-CENTUKY !
(Smith # (Mannell
SHIRT IlikKliS,
HOSIERS & MERCERS,
298 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Shirts to Measure or Pattern.
From 50/- Half-Doz.
A 1 WHITE SHIRTS
(Ready-made).
Unequalled for Value from
30/- the Half-Doz.
Instructions for Self-Measure-
ment posted free on applica-
tion.
% A Trial Solicited *♦
X R X 3 L A. WD’S
11 ROSEBUD ”
CREAMERY^
BUTT Eli
Agents: GARRAD & BOOTH,
230 Sussex Stkkkt, STONE Y.
\
ijENRV fjEATH^
.TRADE MARC
(pi-. DEI. SMITH & SODXT,
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere,
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHiLDREN’B sweet)
Ik
- ,
wSU/s-
Tigncft.
jt> jM
|
yfl
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
Musical Instruments, etc.
HOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every descrip-
tion, cash or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal, Jones, &c.,
cash or term?) to suit all, Queen-st., Wooilahra.
TT©WARD’S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver plated,
-Lt cash or easiest terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for colonies;
cash or easy terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
Vi ©WARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices, for cash or
-*-L on easiest terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S Violins, Rows, and Oases, complete, from
12s Gd, cash or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD'S Acoordepns, 1000 to select from, all kinds
and prices. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S Banjos, from 2s 6d to 12 guineas, all makes,
cash or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S Mouth Organ (J ton), from Gd to 1 guinea,
a great variety. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
H' OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. Thousands of
them in all keys, from Gd. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourines, Black,
&0., great variety. Quren-st., Wooilahra.
©WARD'S American"OrgamT for cash or on terms.
Large stock now landing. Queen st., Wooilahra.
“LI OWARD’S Concertinas, 20 key, from 3s. lid. to 215.,
XI best German make. Queen-st , Wooilahra.
LI OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30 guineas,
cash or easy terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
“O OWARD’S Double Bass, 3 or 4 string, machine head,
cash or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
TirOWARD Supplies Country Residents with Goods on
* * easy terras, lists free. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
T] OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American, Fiench, and
XX German ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Woo la ua.
H OWARD'S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless var’ety,
from Gd. to 25g5.; cash or terms. Queen-st., W’lhra.
TT OWARD’S Saxhorns or E flat Tenors, in brass and
XX silver ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones brass and silver-plated ; cash or
terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
O OWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass and
XX silver ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
“ITOWARD’S Euphoniums, in brass and silver; cash or
-XL easy terms. Queen-s/., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S Circular and Straight Basses, brass or
plated ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
XT OWARD’S for Brass Drums and Fittings; cash or
XX terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S for Bombardon’s and double BB Bass’s;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
H' OWARD’S supply Complete Brass Bands on very easy
terms to suit everybody. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
XT OWARD'S supply Complete String Bands for cash or
■XX on terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S semi the Instrument on payment of first
instalment. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S Safety Bicycles, rubber tyres; cash or
terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
M OWARD'S Gold and Silver Watches, Rings, &0., cash
-Lx or terms. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD’S supply lists and full particular on appli-
cation. Queen-st., Wooilahra.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants it Importers,
Queen Street, Wooilahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
H3T Write for Lists, and beware of WORTHLESS
IMITATIONS of OUrGoodst^^^^^^
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, <&c.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
BSW Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers. XEI
THE AUTOHABP.
g
An y person
can play the
Autoharp or
vamp his own
accompa ni-
mentstothou-
sandsofsongs,
without any
knowledge of
music what-
.... . , ever. Price,
with b major and minor pedals, tuning-board, &0., 35/--
superior tone and finish, 45/-. Carriage FREE. Violins,
songs, waltzes, acc.ordeons, concertinas, angles, banjos,
mandolines, guitars, % flutes, fifes, piccoloes, and cornets ;
cheaper than at any other house in Australia. Cata-
logues posted FREE. .). ALBERT & SON, 118 King
Street, SYDNEY.' The “PHCENIX,” or Musical Organette,
for pieces, hymns, or dance music, worked by the handle.
Best IViusik in the world, a Child can play it. Price, with
6 popular tunes, 25/-; large size, 55/-, carriage free ; extra
tunes, 1/6 and 2/- each. Catalogues forwarded free.
Hotel.
ifre.
v.h
cVi
“ (FM Sydney <§offee (gnlace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
' J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week. Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM.
Man ahd Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &o.
DEsciumve.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other, houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
jvith'the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bxilletln,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and din
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System - one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called ‘‘ nobility. '
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin*.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and/bas become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
arge fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by eompar'llo
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent soim
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
'form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
mis,ery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly aijd ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not* connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capita], is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator; and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the M'aoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because itsvast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Maoleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Special Advertisements
The people of Queensland, in
TOWN AND COUNTRY DISTRICTS,
are invited to send their orders to, or visit the
Establishment of,
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
BRISBANE,
Where the finest stock in the Colony of General
Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing, Mercery,
Shirts, Hats, Carpets, Floor Cloths, Linoleums,
Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bedsteads, Glass,
China, and Crockeryware can be seen in all
qualities, from low-priced lines to the very best.
Sound, good-wearing Materials at Lowest Cash
Prices ! This can be proved in the most satisfac-
tory manner by comparing this Firm’s goods,
qualities, and prices with others, which is the
only reliable test. Everything in their line can
be had at Finney, Isles & Go’s., except shoddy
goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all departments, sent to any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
tion of what is required, and remittance to
cover amount.
Address all orders and make Post-office Orders,
Bank Drafts, &c., payable to Finney, Isles & Co.
Samples, self-measurement forms, full
instructions for taking measures, for men’s or
women’s clothing; Price-lists, also Instructions
for Shopping by Post, will be immediately for-
warded on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
(Direct Importers and Manufacturers)
Brisbane, Maryborough and London-
"GRATEFUL RESULTS"
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, of Altoona,
Pennsylvania, U. S. A.,
Restored to Health by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“Last Spring, I was grievously afflicted
with biliousness and liver complaint. My
mouth was in a terrible condition every
morning, my tongue thickly coated, my
breath was offensive, and my bowels were
V
'vt
H
%
m
I'
I
always out of order; nor did the many rem-
edies recommended do me any good, until I
tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, when my improve-
ment began almost from the first dose.
This unlooked-for, but grateful, result, was
accomplished by only two and a half bottles
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.” *
Ayer’s y Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair.
Made by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co./Lowell,Mass.,'U.S.A.
‘THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We alwa.vs have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Drop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
tvig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &o.
ANTKIIJE Oil.. Specially prepared for Barber’s
Bse; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street. Sv«lu«‘v.
LOST MANHOOD
from youthful folly, excesses, or any other cause, Guaran-
teed CURE. A great scientific discovery by anatomy.
Treatise on “Lost Manhood” posted free, sealed. To
young men contemplating marriage, to the married, to
young and old, this book is invaluable, pointing out as
it does the way of relief to those unfortunate sufferers
to whom love is but a hideous, tormenting dream, life
a torture, the future a blank. Every man and youth
should read it. Posted free. Write PROFESSOR
HERMANN, 41 Collins Place, East, Melbourne.
Oriental Female Pills.
Triple power. Restore regularity without fail, no matter
"'hat cause. Sure and safe. Box, posted, 6/6. Oriental
Viyouv Pills for Men, GIG. Write WILLIAM
GARFIELD, 78 Plinders-street East, Melbourne.
CJ.ENTS.-BEST FRENCH GOODS, 6a. per
dozen, posted. Writs Mr. Hermann, 41 Golfing
Place East, Melbourne
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1826.
a
ĝ
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
voa
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
SKINS ON FIRE
With Agonizing Eczemas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, peWa-
nently, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cuticura Remedies are the great-
est skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modern times, are absolutely
purg, and may be used in the treatment of
every humor, from the simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
skin, and scalp.
CUTICURA
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp
of crusts and scales, speedily soothes and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Beaulifier, is indispensa-
ble in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and poi-
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause,
Hence the Cuticura Reme-
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to scrofula.
How to Cure Diseases of the Skin, Scalp, and Blood,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases,
Illustrations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap, 25c.;
Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S. A,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless nails, are pre-
vented and cured by Cuticura Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging ol
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin. *
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S LACTO-GLYCOSE
OR. 3MCXX.SC ROOD.
SPECIAIIT ADAPTED FOB COUNTRIES WHERE FRESH COW'S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED
f;nnrft are fyeejraok dnimal Csrou arullxip- UQOd i» ®»y Oim&tt- Xo 6s. a Uointd Sr.im oil Dxugt/iitisJuiMl9t(t*
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
SS?
,
uosi **•**,«•
SSS»SS
f I
c-.^V
!*■•«• "■* u »*^_
RESTORES
Color, Fullness, and Beauty
TO HAIR
Which has become Wiry, Thin, or Gray.
It cures Itching' Humors, and keeps the scalp cool,
moist, healthy, and
FREE FROM DANDRUFF.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor is an elegant toilet article,—a
favorite with ladies and gentlemen alike.
It imparts to the hair, beard, and mous-
tache a beautiful silkiness, and a delicate
and lasting fragrance.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
.A.H Druggists and Perfumers.
of cheap Imitations. The name—Ayer— is prominent on the
wrapper, and is blown in the glass at the bottom of each bottle.
BANE OF VAN DIEMEN’S LAND, Limited
(In Liquidation).
Hon. G. P. FITZGERALD, Hon. WILLIAM HART. Trustees.
GrBLiVKTXD LOTTERY
(Sanctioned by Special Act of Parliament, 57 Vic. No. 2, 1893).
300,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
First Prize valued .£26,000; Second, £22,500 ; Third, £J2,000 ; Fourth, £10,500; and 372
others, ranging in value from £9,500 down to £lOO.
Apply early— GEO. ADAMS, Collms-st., HQBAILT,
or, GEO. ADAMS. Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
NOTE. —The Valuation of the above Properties has been carefully checked and will bear the
closest investigation.
It is anticipated that the lull amount will be subscribed by the end ol this year, but in any case the LIST
will POSITIVELY CLOSE not later than FEBRUARY 28, 1895.
Love's Prayer.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
When meditating beneath the gum’s staunch
rooted,
Upon the steep banks of their muddy creek ;
Or, as I walk slowly among the boxwood,
I stretch out my hands for my love,
Calling for her to come and walk with me,
To talk or often to be silent.
We two, serenely companions the day long.
At times, in sublime moods, calmly I wish it,
But sometimes call with thumping heart and
smoky eyes.
O how hard for will and intellect
To constrain the tremulous nerves and repress the
hot heart!
Surely Goodness made the incomparable woods
and imperturbable earth,
And Evil the lusty animals and passionate man.
Patience, O Dreamer, among the tussocks !
Evil is but failure ; God must yet succeed;
Mankind shall be incomparable.
0 to be celestial and azure of love,
Sincere as the intellect,
Pure as the seeding forest;
For this I would dare to pray.
Years past, in the search fires of analysis,
1 burned my parents’ tenets,
And cannot pray as they did, for meat and peace,
Nor call to their God, omnipotent.
Such is not the divine quality;
But the power to work and strive again
Till the good desire is done
And by repetition fixed unto a law ;
Yet not fixed, but ever to be improved.
To this divine good-will I pray.
The desire for moral excellence is as seed,
The repeated wish deep plants,
To yield well and ever better within the soul for
aye.
And that sin of present man,
The fond consciousness of sex
Shall fade from in my mind,
So I may take my love and make her wife
In purity, for childrens’ birth alone.
Thus praying, I see the time shall come
When a stalwart race so born shall live
To enter wedlock without need
Of bond at law to guard the mother
Or vow to God to hold
A male and female faithful to each other.
Illabarook, Vic.
J. O. GALIOWAY.
A phrase: “The influence of affluence."
A word : “Ungovernable.”
Politicians are things which live, late in
life, on the reputation of what they did not do,
and, in early life, on what they are going to per-
form.
“I may be looking a long way ahead, but
perhaps in the future the two Houses may be a
Parliament of men elected by men and a council
of women chosen by women. There is nothing
which the classes can contribute to the masses so
valuable as the best thought of woman to aid the
best thought of man.” —Miss C. H. Spence (of
Adelaide) in Haepee’s.
Hughes, M.L.A., was cavorting in N.S.W.
Assembly the other night. Old man Parkes
watched him attentively for some time, and then,
turning to. Augus Cameron, enquired “Who is
thatagain?” “ Hughes,’’replied Angus. “Hughes
—ah, Hughes!” muttered the ancient. “Well,
now, I suppose the country considers him worth
.£3OO a year, since it employs him. And if a man
like that is worth £3OO a year, what should Hi be
worth ?” Then he lay back and soliloquised on
the shortcomings of representative government.
Says a Melbourne paper :
The Theatre Royal in Bourke-street is a leasehold pro- j
perty, the tenants paying £l5OO a year for the use of the
land, which the original owner acquired for the sum of
£9l 4s. The Victoria Arcade is also leasehold property,
the owner of which pays £l3OO a year for the use df land
originally costing £9B 16s. The Eastern Arcade is another
leasehold, the ground-rent of which is £l2OO a year, the
freehold having cost £B7 Bs.
A brief and emphatic essay on the advantages of
selling instead of leasing the public estate. Only
a few years ago the State sold these three little
patches of land for .£276 in all, and thereby loses
an annual income of .£4OOO, with unlimited pro-
spects of future increase. Yet the State keeps
jobbing away more land, and every day it sells
what may be the site of another city next century,
and almost every hour it fools away some more of
the unlimited possibilities of the future.
All the rage in Paris. Latest Parisian
preventative posted in sealed letter, 1/2 stamps.
National Drug Co., Russell-st., Melbourne.
Cape Colony’s Parliamentary allowance to
members is at the rate of =£l for each day of the
session—limited to 90 days per year. The careful
Dutch members representing country constitu-
encies arrive in Capetown on the very day of the
opening of Parliament, hunt round for cheap
board and lodging, and at the end of the term ao
arrange matters that they arrive home again on
the very night that their pay stops. The South
African Dutch are the most truly awful example
of National Ass “thrift ” on the face of this globe.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.
A Miss Paine, of Ryde, has bequeathed
Randolph Churchill .£86,000, “ as a tribute to his
political genius.” The lady’s relatives will.no
doubt, upset this on the ground that testator was
suffering from hallucination.


Cflf>lTflli
£5.800,000.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN
AND
MERCANTILE AGENCY CO.,
LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
a
tiii
vr
WOOL AND PRODUCE
SELLBNG BROKERS ONLY.
A ccount Sales and Cash Proceeds Four
Pays after Sale .
.
*•'-
MmMi
MPjl
Mi
il|
iiiiHsiiil
m
CELLULAR AERTEX CLOTH is composed of small cells, in which
the air is enclosed and warmed by the heat of the body, a perfect
non-conducting layer being thus formed next the skin. Owing to the
cellular: construction, this cloth is much lighter and better ventilated
than ordinary fabrics, easier to wash, and a positive safeguard against
Chills.
Ladies 1 Cellular Nightdresses
(Trimmed with real Torchon Lace) made in
COTTON, LISLE THREAD, SILK and COTTON, NATURAL WOOL,
MERINO, and SILK and MERINO,
Prices from Ba. to 30 a.
Combinations, Corsets, Petticoats, Bodices, Vests, Drawers, Stockings,
etc., etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC by the YARD or PIECE.
Price Lists, Pamphlets and all particulars.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
(Nearly opp. Hunter-street) 305-307 GEQRjE STREET, SYDNEY.
ğ
Sterling 1 ,
Stainless
Hosiery.
ABSOLUTELY
fiftST.
ELEGANT
DURABLE
AND CHEAP
TO BE HAD
OF ALL DRAPERS
g
Speciality for tills Climate
g
Baker’s Station Knife.
With Wool-skinning, Sweep, and Lance Blades.
(Designed for Squatters and Farmers.)
T/6 EACH—POST FREE TO ANY COLONY.
w. <J3xro. ba.k; e r ,
3 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
The Largest Tailoring Establishment
IWT AUSTRALASIA,
COVERING 500 SQUARE YARDS OF GROUND FLOOR SPACE.
Established in 1870.
1 2 12 DISTINCT and ALL NEW PATTERNS. Please send for them. All Expenses Paid.
The Indelible Colours, Choice Designs, and Wear-resisting Qualities of these Goods stamp us the
r Best Judges of Woollens.
Our 565. SUITS, to Order, have created quite a revolution in Tailoring
Please READ, MARK, LEARN. g *
JOHKT GRAHAM,
510 GEORGE STREET (near Park-street), SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
Ii Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEARI
Directors;—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES IfVl VI I' Esq Deputv-Chairm™ •r m
WALKER Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHOKT, Esq., J.P,; A. W.,MEEKS Es<. ItOBT I S £ T -
JOSEIH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A. General Manager and Actuary : BICHAiIO TEE JE, F.l'.A.) F.KA "’e tCg’
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
Accumulated Funds ... ... Twelve Millions sterling
he CASH BONUS for the One Year 1893 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £413 7Qn
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £910,000.
Heacl Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EGBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Fire Fistes at Loivest Fates.,
ĝ
Head Offices:
—9s—
Street,
Sydney.
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITA!*
£130,000
,A>
■AVf
cr
Directors;
Jt-HN SEE, Esq
M.P., 4 ’
Ex-Colonial Treasurer.
{Uncurman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.C.,
JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Pohoy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNE Y, N. S. WALE S.
Opposite Lauds Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10 s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
AV. AV. AIKEN Manager.
__{2o years in the Establishment.)
g
New Edition.
The METHOD of METHODS.
Sydney Smith. — Method for the
Pianoforte, adopted by all the
Principal Educational Establish-
ments in Great Britain, Ireland,
Australia, &c. 72 pages. Full
Music Size. This new Edition
contains Duets for the master and
pupil, and Photograph of the author.
Price - - Five shillings.
May be had of all Music Sellers, or Pest Free
at half the above price from the Publishers
EDWIN ASHDOWN,
(Limited),
NEW YORK. LONDON. TORONTO
A COMPLETE SET, ONE GUINEA.
THE
LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH.—A Complete Set, ONE GUINEA
The LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE 9S
KING STREET, SYDNEV.-Single Tooth,
2,6; precisely the same CELEBRATE!)
GOLD and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, pain-
lessly fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION,
as advertised at the highest cost by other
firms. FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY.
Country patients supplied in one visit
PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5,-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY. <— The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages: -
Absolute painless treatment, no unneces-
sary extractions, perfect and permanent
life-like appearance. Special soft palates
for tender gums.
SEND or CALL for our Great WORK on DEN-
TISTRY, post free on application to the
LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE, 98
KING-ST., two doors from Pitt-st., the
only address. Hours, 9to 6.
Branches;
111 KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
142 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
167 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
“The Last of Six.”
Banking.
-THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 ITTT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United Stales of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities oi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
The Bank of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid up .. £200,000.
EASERVB Liabilit? .. 250,000.
Head Office Srlsbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydnev Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND.
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND
£300,000
375,000
25,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
g
WE HAVE OVER
300
Cockerels & Pullets
Of the Breeds referred to, at
prices from 10s. each.
These are Guaranteed Pure
Bred, and are invaluable to
farmers and others who de-
sire to improve the laying
qualities of their stock.
Many of these birds are fit
to exhibit at any Show.
It rite to the City Office, 249 Clarence-st., Sydney,
OF THE
Grantham Poultry Farm,
Plumpton, Rooty Hill, New South Wales,
IF YOU WANT
Fure-bred Poultry,
Foltiu or Rouen Ducks,
Toulouse Geese or
Eggs for Hatching,
Our Birds are Eight and Our Brices are Eight,
Our Yards coiiUin the Choicest Varieties of Plymouth Rocks, Golden
and Sliver Wy ando ttes, White Wyandottes, Light and Dark Brahmas
White and Brown Leghorns, Silver Spangled and Black Hamburghs’
Langshans, Mmorcas, Andalusians, Dorkings, Houdans, Orpingtons’
etc. Also, Choice Breeds of Pekin, Aylesbury and Rouen Ducks.’
Also, Toulouse Geese.
OUR NEW POULTRY CATALOGUE is being mailed free by post to
any address, and is just what every poultry fancier wants. It is Interesting
Illustrated and True, and contains a lot of valuable information. ’
All information cheerfully furnished. All orders promptly executed and
satisfaction guaranteed. Address all communications to our SYDNEY OK'I-'IPE
249 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, of ° 1
The GRANTHAM POULTRY FARM.
LONDON & MELBOURNE TAILORING CO.,
81 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE LEA.DI OTHERS FOLLOW.
SUITS to Measure, 45/- ; TROUSERS to Measure, 12/6
COUNTRY RESIDENTS.
1 a ™ en } 8 > Self-measurement Forms and Tapes, Just opened, our NEW STOCK in Scotch
and West of England Tweeds, Serges, Sergerettes and Worsteds for the Spring and Summer season.
Every order entrusted to us we guarantee a perfect fit and well finished. All goods thoroughly shrunk.
ADUIIESS: 3! ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY. is. M. BAUMASHE. Manager.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 14. —No. 766.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1894.
Price, 6d.
the
inimsauuN
“LECTURERS ARE TO BE SENT TO AUSTRALIA IN THE INTERESTS OF IMPERIAL FEDERATION.”-CABLE.
J. BULL (lecturing on the British Lion): “In conclusion, I would say that he is the most amiable in the world, and is very fond of
children, and if any little hoy in the audience would like to step up and put his head in the lion's mouth he will be given the oportunity. He MAY get
swallowed, but, in that case, it will be a comfort to know that he has become an integral part and parcel of the boundless and glorious British Empire."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors:
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
As 24 Pitt street, Sidney, New South Wares.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
1 his offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not ivish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maolbod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —•
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But ice desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission oj such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., l imited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: It. A. Thompson and Co., S Church Street,
Caj etoivn, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 2d.
added fur postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Notice to Agents outside of New South
Wales.
Owing to the various Governments having im-
posed Half-penny postage on all papers, Agents
are informed that the wholesale rate for The
Bulletin has been altered from Four Shillings
to Four Shillings and Sixpence per dozen.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1894.
A State Drink Department.
Within the past few months Maoriland has
been making sundry attempts at Prohibition,
and as the result it has discovered—what
almost every other Prohibitionist state dis-
covered before it—that the only thing which
is drunker than drink itself is total abstin-
ence. The apparent consequences, so far, are
these : —(1) The demand for drink and the
consumption of drink, so far as the latter
can be estimated, and the effects, in the
shape of visible intoxication, are just as great
as they ever were ; (2) The respectable
hotels, where good liquor was sold cheaply
under police supervision, have mostly been
closed, causing a great want of accommoda-
t on, while their places have been taken by
secret dens, half shebeen and half brothel,
where any kind of liquor—but generally the
worst kind—is vended at increased prices
under no supervision at all; (3) The munici-
pal revenue from hotel licences is lost, and
he ivy additional rates have to be levied to
make up the deficiency ; while the expense
of the police department must inevitably
increase, through the labour involved in
incessant hunting after illicit distillers and
illicit grog-sellers. The experiment is not
yet far advanced, but it already promises to
be the story of Mildura over again—that
Mildura which was notorious as the most
drunken of teetotal settlements, and where
life was one long orgie on such liquor as few
white men ever drank before, and few. it is
to be hoped, will ever drink again.
• * *
Why man in general will drink is appar-
ently as incapable of explanation as gravita-
tion, or protoplasm, or the attraction of the
sexes ; but all experience shows that he will I,
drink. Unless every human being in the £
community is kept under constant polices
supervision alcohol cannot be abolished, and
if its consumption is reduced by compulsory
processes the immediate result is an increased
demand for opium, morphia, chloral, cocaine,
or something else which is many degrees
worse than the original curse. The only
feasible-looking explanation of this pheno-
menon is that life is a dreary affair at the
best—that the brick walls and the dismal
streets and the solemn monotony of the
plains are very wearisome, and that there is
much injustice, poverty, misery, and squalor
in this worst of all possible worlds, and
many bad smells, deformed men, and ugly,
shrill women, and unclean children, and
mangy dogs sniffing in a forlorn fashion at
garbage in the gutter, and many stunted
louts swearing and spitting at street corners.
And then the highways are crooked and
foul, and full of bony steeds tugging
wretchedly at ponderous loads, and little,
unkempt, fly-blown shops where sad-faced
men and women try to eke out a precarious
livelihood in the decayed-fruit industry, and
of decayed, moth-eaten cottages where the
toiler lives, pent in by a battered ceiling, and
a sunken floor, and four grime-encrusted
walls. If these are not the cause of drunken-
ness it is difficult to imagine what is. The
whole philosophy of drink and morphia, and
similar indulgences, is probably the desire
to forget something, or to see something in a
brighter aspect than its own ; and as long as
the world is so full of things which every
sane being wants to forget or to see in an
entirely new aspect, the idea of abolishing
drink is hopeless. Whether it would be
hopeless under an entirely new set of cir-
cumstances is a question which cannot be
answered until these circumstances come
along.
* * «
The establishment of an ideal life, in which
man may not want to drink because there is
nothing in his surroundings which can’t bear
inspection save through a joyous haze of
liquor, being so exceedingly remote, it may
as well be dismissed from present considera-
tion. The immediate issue lies between
prohibition and regulation, and the failure
of the former is so obvious to all save a
small army of noisy cranks that it also may
be eliminated from the discussion. But in
the matter of regulation there is an almost
boundless field for improvement. The pub-
lican, under the existing condition of things,
is often about the lowest character in the
community. Every pugilist who has out-
lived his brutal avocation takes to liquor-
selling, apparently by a process of natural
selection. So does almost every ex-police-
man, and all manner of broken - down
betting-men, spielers, and other nondescript
hangers-on who can raise enough money to
take some unsavoury den suited to their
unsavoury instincts. It is vaguely estimated
that from one-third to one-half the spirits
sold in Australia are the products of illicit
distillation, whereby the revenue of the five
provinces loses something like £1,000,000
per annum. The spirits vended in many
low city pubs, and in the great majority of
remote country hotels are fearsome com-
pounds of all manner of poisonous chemicals,
which eat away the vitals of the drinker and
drive him to temporary or permanent
insanity. Even if they are pure they are
mostly raw and unmatured. An enormous
number of hotels are mortgaged to brewers
and distillers, and their nominal owners are
compelled to buy from the mortgagees their
cheapest and worst compounds at exorbitant
prices. A large proportion of the city
“hotels” are disguised, or undisguised,
brothels or gambling dens, and too many
bush pubs, are places whose owners live
by thieving and slow murder. The pub-
lican exists, not to supply just as little
drink as the community can be induced to
content itself with, on the ground that drink
is an unavoidable evil which must be per-
mitted to a certain extent lest worse evils
should follow, but to sell just as much as he
can persuade his customers to buy, and thus
to make the evil many times worse than it
was before. Among all these circumstances,
the scope for regulation of the drink-traffic is
enormous.
* • •
One obvious remedy lies in making the
manufacture and sale of alcohol a State
monopoly. There are many logical reasons
for such a course. The immoderate drinker
—the person who is the beginning, middle,
and end of the liquor-question—is now ad-
mitted by the best scientific authorities to be
a species of lunatic; and the State has
already been compelled, much against its
will, to make the care of all other varieties
of lunatics practically a Government mono-
poly, on account of the unspeakable cruelties
and abuses which arose through the treat-
ment of the insane by private enterprise. By
making drink a State monopoly it would,
therefore, follow out its present policy to its
logical conclusion. The frequent objection
to the multiplication of public departments
could easily be met. The railways—the
greatest of all the public departments—have
already been almost entirely removed from
political control in several of the Australias—
in New South Wales, in particular, under
the excellent management of Commissioner
Eddy, they may be said to have been
entirely removed, with the best results.
When the railways can be administered
successfully without being any more a burden
to the Cabinet than if they were in private
hands, it is quite possible to put the Depart-
ment of Drink upon a similar footing. It is
merely a question of finding the right men
for the work. They might be hard to find,
and in the meantime the Department might
have to get on as best it could with the
wrong men, but even these could by no
possibility be as bad as the class which now,
in a great measure, runs the trade in intoxi-
cants.
m • #
Under a system of State control, the first
object would be to have just as few bars as
would conveniently supply the wants of the
population, instead of having as many as the
population could be induced to support. All
the bars attached to large and well-conducted
city hotels would be taken over, either at a
fixed rental or by paying the owners of the
property a proportion—possibly 10 or 20 per
cent.—of the net profits in lieu of rent. All
the small bars, or those which bore an ill
repute, or which had no sufficient hotel
accommodation attached, within a certain
moderate radius of each large establish-
ment would be closed entirely. Where
there were no decent hotels within
the required radius—and in many of
the lower parts of Sydney and Mel-
bourne there is nothing save a succession
of drinking dens of the murkiest description
—all existing licences might be cancelled
and separate saloons opened in their stead.
At this rate three-fourths of the city bars
could easily be dispensed with. In the pro-
vincial towns, where the competition is less
keen, a considerable reduction could also be
made, though in the bush it would probably
be impracticable to effect very much diminu-
tion. Still, either in Victoria or New South
Wales, it should be possible to immediately
reduce the liquor-selling establishments by
at least 50 per cent., taking the province as a
whole. The State would also take over all
breweries and distilleries at a valuation,
while Australian wine and non-intoxicating
drinks would be purchased by tender, like
other stores used in Government depart-
ments.
* • «
Every liquor-seller would then be a public
servant paid by a fixed salary. He would be
compelled by law to sell drink to every sober
person desiring to buy, but he would receive
no commission on sales, and therefore would
have no inducement to push business. He
would merely supply a demand instead of
endeavoring to create one. All spirits being
furnished from Government distilleries only,
the market for illicit spirits would be imme-
diately destroyed and a tremendous leakage
in the public revenue would be stopped.
The amount to be saved in this direction,
along with the legitimate profits of the busi-
ness, would probably add nearly a million a
year to the revenue in Victoria and New
South Wales, and a proportionate amount
in the other provinces according to popula-
tion. All liquor would be carefully analysed
before being sent out for sale, and thus the
trade in raw, immature spirits and in madden-
ing concoctions of turpentine, fusel oil, white
spirit, miscellaneous acids, and other abomi-
nations, which eat away the brain and drive
the consumer to delirium tremens, murder
and suicide, would be wholly abolished. Also,
the brothels and gambling-houses, which are
unauthorised attachments to so many alleged
hotels, would be extinguished. The ex-
prize-fighters and other brutal rowdies, who
form a considerable proportion of the hotel-
keeping class, would be driven out of the
business. The dirty, unkempt “ pub.,” re-
dolent of the dregs and ashes of many
ancient “drunks,” would give place to a
bright, clean, and comfortable establishment.
And, simply because the salesman would
have nothing to gain by selling to unsober
customers, the dipsomaniac’s orgie would
often be stopped in its initial stages.
» # *
In addition to all these advantages, a State
liquor monopoly would reduce by fully one-
half—probably by much more—the number
of people dependent upon the traffic. And
this would effect such a saving that, despite
the reduced consumption and the sale of
first-class liquor at a moderate rate, the
direct revenue from the trade would pro-
bably be almost as great as it is at
present, while the indirect revenue, through
the stoppage of illicit traffic, would be enor-
mous. All this, it is true, would be a mere
side issue—that is to say, the State would
go into the business, not as a mere money-
making concern, but rather to reduce the
evils of the trade in intoxicants to
a minimum ; still, the profits would
come, and none of the impecunious Trea-
suries of Australia could afford to overlook
this aspect of the case. Moreover, the
country would be indirectly the richer by
compelling at least half the persons now
employed in an unproductive trade to betake
themselves to other occupations, in which
they could hardly fail to add something to
the aggregate wealth of the community.
The advantage would not be immediately
apparent, for the ejected publicans and their
assistants would, in many cases, be of little
industrial value save as first-class funerals ;
but in the next generation some benefit,
however small, must necessarily accrue.
• * *
The idea of a State liquor-monopoly is not
by any means perfect ; at the best it is
merely a compromise with an evil which is
incapable of abolition. But, at its worst, it
is vastly better than the other two alterna-
tives, which are either to permit a continu-
ance of the present system or to enact
absolute Prohibition, The present system is
admittedly bad in almost every respect. And
Prohibition—which is merely another name
for the wholesale secret manufacture of
poisonous grog, and its sale at exorbitant
prices in cellars and brothels and all manner
of dingy and vicious haunts, and the corrup-
tion of the police by bribes from illicit pub-
licans and distillers, and the creation of an
army of perjurers, blackmailers, and in-
formers—is vastly worse. Prohibition, in
fact, is the worst and most aggravated form
of drunkenness, and one such experiment as
Mildura should be more than sufficient for
this generation of Australians. No com-
munity, The Bulletin opines, should
want more than one such lesson in a
generation.
“Compulsory Conciliation.”
“ Compulsory conciliation ” is a contradiction
in terms and in fact. Compulsion implies
violence; conciliation implies restraint from
violence. Compulsory conciliation covers the
iron hand with a silken glove which does not
conceal it, and imagines that, by confusing the
suaviter in modo with the fortiter in re, it will
unite the advantages of both methods in a
single policy. The idea is absurd. You may
use suasion or you may use force, but you can-
not use both together : that is to say, where
the consciousness exists that force will follow
unsuccessful suasion, suasion itself is force.
“ May ” and “ must ” are mutually exclusive ;
and an action cannot be at once voluntary and
involuntary. When “must” inevitably suc-
ceeds “ may ” there can be no pretence of
voluntary aetion. The grip relaxes or tightens,
but you are held always firmly. The first
thing, therefore, which advocates of “ com-
pulsory conciliation ” have to do, is to amend
their phraseology. Call the thing by its right
name—compulsory arbitration—and there will
be less risk of misunderstanding.
• • #
The second thing is to amend their philosophy.
Compulsory arbitration is merely an action at
law or suit in equity. Law and equity repre-
sent the restraints which the community im-
poses on the individual who is unable to restrain
himself. They are, more or less, the expres-
sion of the practical needs or the ethical stan-
dards of the majority, and have utility directly
corresponding with the weight of the majority.
Every such restraint, limiting the liberty of
the individual in the supposed interest of the
community, tends, by narrowing the field of
social experiment, to lessen the progress of
which liberty is a condition, and to which
stagnation and decay are the only two alter-
natives. The ideal state is that of anarchy,
with every man a law unto himself, yet so self-
restrained as to do only those acts beneficial to
the society of which he is a member. If the
effect of civilisation is to decrease egoism and
increase altruism, which is by no means certain,
the lapse of the centuries should witness the
gradual emancipation of the community from
the swaddling-band of law made unnecessary
by the growth of individual self-control.
* * *
Unless, therefore, it seems certain that a new
law will achieve the end desired, and that the
end is desirable, the let-be policy is generally
better. In the slow evolution of human nature
it is frequently more judicious to accept the ills
we have as a part of human nature than, by
applying a remedy of which the results are not
calculable, to create a new disease worse than
the old. Seeing this, Australasian politicians
have hitherto shrunk from attempting to pre-
vent strikes and lock-outs by compulsory arbi-
tration. Voluntary conciliation has been tried
in several provinces, and found, in most cases,
a worthless expedient. “ Revolutions are not
to be cured with rose-water;” and, in the
disputes between capital and labor with which
all history is dotted, each side is generally too
confident of its right and its power to risk sub
mittiug the cams belli to an independent tribu-
nal. Or, if either does so submit, it is with the
well-understood intention not to comply with
an unfavorable verdict. Recently, however, in
Maoriland and South Australia, compulsory
arbitration bills have twice passed the represen-
tative House of Parliament; and Premier Reid,
in N.S. Wales, has signified his intention to
submit a similar bill in that province also.
• # #
The bill now before the South Australian
Council may be taken as typical; and a glance
at it is sufficient to show the immense difficul-
ties in the way of action. Nearly all trade
disputes are in essence a question of wages.
Obviously it would be a ruinous attack on com-
merce, and an unendurable interference with
individual liberty, if the State were to say to
employer A, “You must employ workman R
on such-and-such terms ;” or to workman C,
“ You must hire yourself to employer D on
such-and-such terms.” If such a law could be
enforced, industry and enterprise would perish,
and people would have to be tied to the soil
by main force. Therefore, Premier Kingston,
in South Australia, only proposes to make
arbitration compulsory between such organisa-
tions as have previously signified their willing-
ness to submit to arbitration. The policy is
shortsighted. No body of employers will bind
themselves beforehand to employ a given set of
men at an arbitrator’s rate of wages at some
future time of which the conditions cannot be
foreseen. It is questionable whether any body
of workmen will consent to take the risk on
their side. If the bill is passed, therefore, it
will be rendered nugatory by refusal to register
under it, which makes the compulsory clauses
worthless.^
• * m
Even supposing that associations of masters
and men did consent to employ and be em-
ployed as an independent person directed,
without reference to their own ideas, the diffi-
culties of enforcing an award crowd thick and
fast. For, of course, the award cuts both ways,
and, to make it effective, penalties must follow
non-observance. Thus, in the current printers’
dispute at Sydney, if an arbitrator took the
masters’ view and directed that the men should
go to work at £2 12s. a week, then under the
South Australian Bill the Typographical Asso-
ciation would be liable to a tine of ,£5OO if it
encouraged a strike, and to a further fine of
£lOOO if its members did not go to work in
accordance with the award. And every indivi-
dual member would be liable to pay £2O if he


.trike or £lO if he did not go to work.
ff ent on s > favor coin p U l SO ry arbitration as
br inging employers to terms. When
a ‘ nea lise that it is a two-edged tool, and
they r ea “, • „ jng themselves to terms, quite
n ‘ ay t her a faee P at u P on . the matter - , For > aS
anotuei/ an uncer tam process, few men
arbitral' 0 r j s k involved, and the result
louW be the death of the unions.
arbitration means, in effect that,
0I i . il the varying circumstances of trade,
t liroUg ‘ 1 a ud m en shall not be guided by their
m asteib tbeir individual circumstances,
0 "" I °ir private judgment, as to the rate of
aml tte hou'n of work, the tenure of employ-
wagf’and the conditions of labor, but shall be
’ d iu all disputed points by an outside
*witv which may or may not be competent,
aU | ° sed or careless. Refusal to accept the
01 i»M of'this authority means heavy loss;
“stance may mean loss just as heavy. The
ac ° P eeds only to be stated in this way to
P | l °!v its utter impracticability. Can nothing,
810 b e done to amend existing methods ?
K'leval acknowledgment of combinations, as
m/ested by the recent British Labor Commis-
-8U ° n r ul ight help ; though even this, involving as
S t does acknowledgment of the liability of in-
dividuals when the general funds run short, in
even t of breach of contract, has its weak
. its ]3 u t empower trades-unions to make
contracts cognisable at law, give each union the
rielit of legal redress against its own defaulting
members or against another union, and the
. .-rang of contracts should be ensured when
entered upon. Would they be entered upon?
p is W orth trying. But there is no need to
create new and complicated machinery for the
trial.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gathering in the Boodle.
Fob callous effrontery it would be impossible
for any political party to surpass that now
ruling in Queensland. But the Q. ruling
party has performed an impossibility : it has
surpassed itself. .Still worse, public opinion
excuses, if it does not justify, the gang in
power. In every Australian province there
are men who have treated the people
as they never would dare to treat a
private individual. Yet the people elect
them to positions of trust, prove them untrust-
worthy, and elect them again. To reform
Parliaments, we must first reform the electors.
Until the minority of honest men become a
minority, they must continue to be ruled
by the dishonest representatives of the
majority. In most of the provinces, however,
the spoiling class does not divide its booty in
the light of day. Some inexplicable inheri-
tance of shame impels it to hide its grabs from
the prying eye of the press, and to pose before
the world “ with the air of their own statues
erected by national subscription.” Bub in
Queensland, provided the robbery be but form-
ally legalised, the robbers pouch their plunder
openly. Nowhere in Australia can be found
parallels to the series of jobs -which have made
the Griffilwraith and Boodle wraith parties
infamously famous. To the latest scheme
for putting public money into private pockets
one can give the high praise that it is worthy
of its predecessors. For the past three years,
iu order to make good the losses by incapable,
corrupt and extravagant financing, the domi-
nant Q. party, nob daring or wishing to impose
a direct tax on wealth, has been alienating
valuable Crown lands wholesale at 10s. an acre
—selling agricultural land as pastoral bo tempt
purchasers, selling water-frontages to provi-
dent squatters, “ peacocking ” the province
wherever and whenever a speculator could
he found to buy. The sales were carried
through with the same scorn of the small
settler, the same regard for the big land-shark,
which has marked every Australian ruling
party similarly directed by squatters and
lawyers. Land around Mitchell, less than
mile from a railway, was sold privately to the
Australian Pastoral Co. at 10s. an acre, though
local agriculturists had petitioned that the
land be thrown open for settlement. But of
course the Centre and North were the sections
chiefly bled. The Australian Pastoral Co.
bought in all 216,748 acres; millionaire Tyson
bought thousands of acres more ; and other
syndicates and monopolists with spare cash
eagerly seized the opportunity to acquire cheap
freeholds which in ten years will be worth 500
per cent, more than the prices paid. Now
that the grabbers have been gorged for the
present, the Boodlewraith turns its attention to
the needs of the Southern section, and proposes
to buy back from the holders Darling Downs
land which was jobbed away to squatters and
dummiers 20 or 30 years ago, and which has
, n idle ever since, waiting for the unearned
increment to rise to a point that would make
sale profitable by yielding a return of 40 or 50
times the cash originally invested. The vendors
°f ting land, like the purchasers of the Central
ami Northern land, are so mixed up with the
Government party that you cannot tell one
from t’other. The Ministerialists, therefore,
mean to buy back at a large price land
which a previous Government sold at a
small one, while at the same time selling
a small price land which a future
overnment will similarly have to buy back
at a large one. This is not a policy which
pays the province, but it is a policy which pays
' ie Government party. So every precaution is
e mg taken to make it successful. Contracts
o purchase land are not to be ratified by Par-
lainent; they are left to the discretion of an
official who may job away the public funds as
16 pleases. There is no means of fixing values,
If ii owners stand out for the last penny,
f the Act passes and is fully taken advantage
of. it will mean an expenditure of between
*1,000,000 and £2,000,000, of which the Centre
ai id North have to find the larger half for
outhern benefit, though they have millions of
acres of excellent Crown lands of their own
awaiting settlement. There is not the slightest
c lance of the precedent imposition of a Land-
tax, under which alone land should be re-pur-
c iase d by an Australian Government, since it
grinds the seller between the upper and nether
millstone of his value for taxation and his value
for sale. However, the people of Queensland
are only reaping as they have sowed ; and The
Bulletin has not a scrap of sympathy to offer.
♦ ■ —
N.S. Wales Railway Resumptions.
Writes Mr. Charles Brown. —Editor Bulle-
tin, —Re the public money squandered in land
resumptions on the railway from St. Leonards
to Milson’s Point. The £40,000 paid for six
acres only covers a few hundred feet of the
line. Up to June 30, the country had paid for
land on this line <£172,414, and since then
£37,000 has been voted, so that the cost to date
—not yet the whole—is £210,000. The line is
2| miles long, but over a mile runs through the
Berry estate, where the land cost nothing.
(The owner was told that if he wouldn’t give
the land he would get no railway—he gave it.)
Another is either in tunnel, or on roads,
so that the above colossal sum has been paid
for the land to construct a 1£ mile line ! The
width resumed is 132 feet, or 2 chains, making
the total area required 20 acres, which has,
therefore, cost over <£lo,ooo per acre, or, if cut
up into building allotments, more than £5O per
foot. The 2f miles have altogether cost £350,000
—just the same amount as the 72J miles from
Molong to Forbes —not a very easy piece of
line either! The cost exceeded, by 150 per
cent., the amount approved of by the expensive
and useless Public Works Committee and
authorised by Paxdiament, and although the
line has been in operation for the best part of a
year, the Under-Secretary for Works has the
cynical effrontery to tell the country that “ it
is impossible to fix the actual cost, as there are
some heavy land-claims still outstanding.”
Resumption of land by the State is one long
and unbroken history of spoliation. There has
been, in this connection, a mass of dishonesty
and corruption as flagrant as that described by
Zola in his novel of “ La Cur6e,” when Paris
was being Haussmannised under the third
Napoleon. Not long since it slipped out, in a
court of justice, that a certain piece of land
had been semi-officially valued twice within
a few months—the first time for probate at
£6000; the second time, when the Government
had given notice of resumption, at £50,000!
In another case an absentee held an interest in
a property which it was wished to dispose of.
The purchasers and the absentee’s agent were
agreed that £12,000 was a fair sum, and the
bargain was virtually concluded when it became
known that the State meant to resume. The
absentee was immediately rushed with an offer
of £20,000. And the people who rob the
country in this way are invariably “ good men,”
pillars of the church, props of society, elders
in Israel—all decorated (as I forget what senti-
mental broker said the other day) “with the
white flower of a blameless life.” What makes
this subject of special importance is the
significant statement in the Public Works
report that estimates “ have been prepared
of further valuations in respect of land-
resumptions amounting to £2,006,269.” Syd-
ney papers of 27th ult. state that for lands
resumed at Woolloomooloo Bay £98,528 has
been paid—£7B,lo2 for land, and £20,426 for
“ interest to date of payment according to the
Act.” The interest is over 25 per cent, of the
purchase money —more than five years’ interest
at 5 per cent. Who is responsible for this? If
the value of the land was in dispute, why was
not the amount of the Government valuation
paid to the owner as soon as the land was
resumed ? As it is, £20,000 has simply been
thrown away. Everyone must agree with what
you propose as the only possible means of pre-
venting the present system of plunder—the
imposition of a land-tax ; if the owner over-
values his land he pays unnecessary taxation ;
if he undervalues, the State reserves to itself
the right to resume at his own price. Then the
landlord has to be honest in spite of himself.
•>
Byrnes on Legal Morality.
The recent discussion in Queensland Assembly
upon the Criminal Law Amendment Bill evoked
from Attorney-General Byrnes an interesting
definition of the status of the fraudulent solicitor.
The fact that the solicitor is a gentleman by
Act of Parliament, and that ex-officio the
Attorney - General is the same, makes the
matter even more interesting, as showing how
much latitude one gentleman thinks should be
granted to another gentleman under certain
painful circumstances. When the Bill was in
committee, Reid, M.L. A., moved the addition
of a clause providing that a solicitor who took
money from his client for a specific purpose,
such as for the payment of a barrister, and
failed to apply it to that purpose, or to honestly
account for it in any way, should rank at law
like any other embezzler and be treated accord-
ingly. Whereupon Thomas Joseph Byrnes,
Esq., Attorney-General, objected, the weighty
part of his objection being as follows :
As to the latter part of the clause, the hon. member did
not show himself progressive, for he was simply trying to
re-enact the law of imprisonment for debt, or rather for
what was not a debt, because the money received from a
client for a barrister was not a debt.
This, of course, was pure gall and misrepresen-
tation. Nevertheless, the Q. Assembly, which
consists mostly of lawyers and Q.N. Bank
shareholders, took it kindly, and threw out the
proposed clause by a large majority. Yet the
question at issue wasn’t imprisonment for debt,
but imprisonment for embezzlement. When a
bank’s client pays his money to a teller for the
specific purpose of having it credited to his
account, or a lawyer’s client hands it to the
“ Gentleman One ” for the specific purpose of
paying for the hire of a barrister, and the
money is used for the receiver’s own private
purposes, it isn’t debt—it is simply stealing.
Therefore, the teller is sent to gaol for seven
years, and is also ejected from the banking
profession for ever, because no bank ever
knowingly employs him again. As for the
solicitor, he is occasionally “ suspended ” for
other kinds of swindle ; but for this particular
kii?.l of swindle nothing serious happens to
him. It is practically a recognised “have.”
Under these circumstances, Attorney-General
Byrnes’s statement that money given to a
solicitor for transmission to a barrister, and
embezzled by the solicitor, isn’t a debt, is just as
much to the point as if he had asserted that it
wasn’t an act of incendiarism. When Mr.
Byrnes demands that the solicitor shouldn’t be
imprisoned for his action because it isn’t a
debt he thereby implies that it isn’t either a
debt or any other kind of liability. In
other words, because the barrister can’t
sue the solicitor for his money, although
the client has paid it to the solicitor,
Mr. Byrnes argues in effect that the
latter should be allowed to steal it without
any questions being asked. Which is a painful
exposition by one gentleman by Act of Parlia-
ment of what another gentleman by Act of
Parliament may do without ceasing to be a
gentleman by Act of Parliament. As a matter
of fact, embezzlement of barristerial fees is
an everyday fraud. The “ cronk ” attorney
carefully collects the fee from his client,
and he needn’t pay it over unless he
likes. An enormous number of attorneys
seldom do like. They employ cheap, strug-
gling barristers—who take the work mainly to
advertise themselves in their profession—and
annex the fee; and the miserable horsehair
struggler puts up with the imposition and
merely hopes that a time may come when he
will be able to pick his solicitors more care-
fully. And this glaring swindle is to go on, in
Queensland at all events, because, as Mr.
Byrnes points out, the swindle “ isn’t a debt.”
No one ever said it was. What sensible people
do say is that it is naked and undisguised
robbery, to be fitly requited by several years
stonebreaking. But Mr. Byrnes ignores this
point.
A Straw Shows.
The Bulletin has often said a far better idea
can be got of a daily newspaper’s real sym-
pathies from the correspondence it publishes
(and the time at which it publishes same) than
from the leading columns. On the day of Vic.
general elections the Argus published, on the
cables page, a correspondent’s attack on the
old Radicalism. Thus :
To the Editor of the Arods.
Sir,—lb is all-imp,•rtant, that all city voters who are
electors in the Dandenonir district should record their
voles in favor of .Mr. John Keys if they want to prevent a
recurrence of
I'.lack Wednesdays.
Broken heads and flaming houses.
The strangling of capital.
The deportation of the Governor and the Upper House
outside the Heads.
The D igs of Hell chasing the Opposition over the
Mountain of Damnation.
Laud regulations to ruin the selectors.
No Federation.
Prohibitive tariffs.
Of course, if they want these few niceties, they can vote
for the old original Lnnginore, or, as you tersely put it —
The Phantom from tub Tomb. Sept. 19.
This grotesque statement of the Radical posi-
tion is useful as showing the Conservative
recognition of the existence of Radicalism, a
thing it was loth to do after the elections, as
witnesseth the following extract from another
Argus letter:
Preetrade is the most modern and advanced develop-
ment of political and commercial economy and popular
progress, and wherever it has so far been introduced it is
a main article of faith with the most advanced liberals
and democrats of their respective countries.
I should like to see all believers in popular progress
and Freetrade a little clearer in repudiating the name of
conservative, a name of which many able and honorable
men in older countries are proud, but which does not
apply here, and which it is sought to stick on them simply
because it is known that in all democratic countries a
man or a party has only*to be looked upon as a conserva-
tive to be disliked at once without any further evidence.—
Yours, &c., Liberal, Democrat, and Freetrader, Oct. 5.
A hundred old Tories, the last of their clique in
Victoria, when they read this, blinked wildly
and looke 1 at the top of the page to see whether
some other paper bad been substituted for the
sacred Argus. “ A conservative to be dis-
liked at once without further evidence! ”
(Apoplectic fits.)
Payment by Members.
By way of heaping scorn upon the principle of
payment of members, a Melbourne Tory sup-
plies his local organ with an extract from
Sheffield Daily Telegram, showing “ what is
considered a fair thing in England to pay for
the privilege of sitting as a member of the
House of Commons.” From these ghastly
statistics it appears that the present member
for Cheltenham has spent .£50,000 since 1867 in
attempts, successful and otherwise, to get into
the House, and in keeping himself right with
his constituents whilst he enjoyed the privilege
of being there. The price in this case is con-
sidered somewhat stiff, however. A former
member for the same town —a certain Baron DE
Ferrieres —only paid £5OOO to keep the seat
six years, and “he argues that £5OO a year is
all a member ought to be called upon to
pay” —in subscriptions to local charities and
other expenses appertaining to the title of
M.P. Here is something definite for demo-
cratic Australia to go upon. The fair thing
in England is, say, £2OOO for an election
and £5OO a year for occupying a seat in the
Legislature, and yet the contemptible “colonials”
who aspire to a similar position expect a
salary for their pains. The result is an inferior
class of senators, men who are for the most
part incapable of paying £2OOO cash at one fell
swoop, and £5OO a year thereafter. But why
allow this state of things to endure ? The evil
w r ere easily rectified by an Act compelling each
M.L.A. to renounce his salary and fulfil the
grand old English notion of a fair thing.
Then a large private income—derived from
property for choice —would be obligatory upon
every successful candidate, and the interests of
the poorer classes would be promoted as in
England aforesaid, by the capitalists who
live upon their labour. The true patriot
is one who can, and will, if necessary,
put down a substantial sum of money
for the privilege of representing all classes of
the community. Payment of members is bad
for the true patriot’s chance, somehow, and the
result is that he doesn’t monopolise the Lower
House as much as he ought to. In the Council
alone is the true feeling of the country properly
expressed—which reminds The Bulletin that
Council seats might as well be sold to the
highest bidders. Why not ? The fair thing
for a brewer to pay for a new peerage in
England is about £lO,OOO a year in social
entertainments every year until the title comes
off. If an Australian Leg. Council answers
as useful a purpose as the House of Lords *
vide Pakkes), the country should charge a<
admission fee and annual subscription. Let ui
insist upon having one “ fair thing ” in legisla*
tion.
Australia’s “Natural Resources.”
It is estimated by European trade journals that
this year the world’s wheat supply will be, at
the very least, 16,000,000 bushels more than
its requirements, and a corresponding surplus
is expected in almost all other varieties of
grain. This same over-supply has been the
rule for a considerable number of years past,
with the exception of a very few seasons of
drought or flood or some other unusual disaster.
The latest advices from Europe report also that
the frozen-meat market is glutted, and there is
no sign of any improved demand for butter and
similar products. The average price of wool
has gone almost continually downward for the
past 25 years or more, and, so far as visible
evidence goes, it is likely to continue down-
wards. In almost every branch of the agricul-
tural and pastoral industry, the returns for a
given amount of labour grow steadily poorer,
year by year ; and the prospects for a country
which lives almost exclusively by tearing raw
products out of the soil, and shipping them to
the other end of the earth for sale, and
buying, with the proceeds, manufactured
goods from factories also at the other end
of the earth, get worse rather than better
every year. Therefore —especially as New South
Wales is now promised a worse attack of “ Free-
trade ” than it ever had before —the present
seems a good time to reconsider that venerable
Foreign-trade axiom that the way to make Aus-
tralia rich is to develope the “natural re-
sources ” of the country rather than to make
violent efforts at establishing manufactures by
means of Protection. It is true that wheat and
other grains, butter, potatoes, wool, and frozen
meat are no more the “ natural resources ” of
Australia than are tweed and steel rails and
hats—they are all the product of purely exotic
industries, and all equally unnatural; but the
Foreign-trade party has chosen to call the first
lot “ natural,” and an unreasoning community
has taken the terra for granted. In any case,
the mere adjective is of little importance. The
question to be decided is, whether Australia
can live by exporting grain at something like
Is. 6d. a bushel, and meat at 2d. per lb. or
thereabouts, and wool at or 7d. per lb.,
and the present signs are that she can’t. Agri-
culture is the most beggarly industry on the
face of the earth, and the agriculturist of real
life is, as a rule, the poorest-paid, hardest-
worked, and least hopeful person that was ever
born. That ideal agriculturist who is supposed
to be the main source of the country’s wealth
never had any existence. The theory that all
wealth comes from the land is one-half true,
and it is just as equally true that all poverty
comes from the land. Agriculture pays where
there is a large manufacturing population to
form a local market, but where a nation takes
to agriculture as practically its sole means of
support, and has to sell its surplus produce in a
distant market and buy manufactured goods
with the proceeds, then it becomes a poor,,
beggarly, hungry community and only one
remove from barbarism. The land is the
“natural resource” of Australia to just the
same extent as the boot-factory or the woollen-
mill or the iron foundry, and no further, and
the man who runs a protected woollen-mill is
developing the natural resources of the country
just as much as is the selector or the wool-
grower. But in reality there are no “ natural ”
resources save grass and bark and raw
kangaroo ; and no unnatural ones. AH indus-
tries which add to the wealth of the community
are equally natural—or equally unnatural; it
matters very little which they are called.
The Superannuation Fraud.
The report of the New South Wales Civil
Service Board, for 1893, casts considerable light
on the present hopeless condition of the Super-
annuation Fund. The principal illumination
comes from the chapter dealing with “Officers
retired on pensions for purposes of retrench-
ment.” According to this list, New South
Wales began to have the retrenchment disease
badly in 1887, when it discharged 38 public
functionaries, all in good health and mostly in
the prime of life, and pensioned them off at rates
varying from .£64 to .£553 per annum. Then, in
1888, another small lot of eight was sent adrift,
the highest pension being .£579 per annum. In
1889 the retrenchment craze assumed an aggra-
vated form, and 80 civil-servants were sent out
on the world to loaf at the expense of the
miserable Superannuation Fund for the rest of
their lives, most of them at rates varying from
£lOO to £790 per annum; and in the four
years from 1890 to 1893 about 150 more went
the same road. Also about 200 were retrenched
with a gratuity instead of a pension, said
gratuities in eight years reaching the mas-
sive figure of £40,000. The present situa-
tion, therefore, is something like this: The
Superannuation Fund was established to provide
pensions for civil-servants —at their own ex-
pense—in their old age or when retired through
sickness, and the contributions were so adjusted
as to provide sufficient resources for this pur-
pose. These are the moneys of the civil ser-
vants, held in trust for their benefit, and if
they are diverted to any other purpose than
that for which they were intended the act may
not come under the head of embezzlement, but,
considering only the moral aspect of the case,
it certainly looks as if it ought to do so. Up
to date nearly half of the funds have beep
so diverted, and only about 55 per cen ; t.
of them have gone in the right direction.
Since the Fund was first established pensions
have been granted to the amount of £87,578
per annum, and £41,980 of this goes to healthy
persons in the prime of life, who were
retrenched, and only £45,598 to old and dis-
abled public servants. Also, out of £90,993
spent in gratuities, £42,000 went to persons
who were ‘ ‘ sacked ” for the sake of
economy. Meanwhile, despite all this
alleged economy, the service grows no
cheaper in the aggregate ; therefore it would
appear as if retrenchment was merely the art
and mystery of discharging a large, sensational


“I Was Dreaming Waltz.”— M. L6on Caron
having already shown his skill in his orchestral
setting of Mr. Juncker’s pretty song, in which the
sweeping cords of the harp are so impressively
employed, has now been commissioned by Mr. H.
J. Samuell to arrange the melody as a waltz. The
air being brief, M. Caron’s musicianly taste and
experience have been largely drawn upon, with
the result that the new waltz, without being diffi-
cult to play, is taking and effective. —From the
Sydney Morning Herald, Oct. 13th.
Equitable
Society U.B.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS.
It has more Assurance in Force,
Does a Larger Business,
Holds a Larger Surplus, than
any other Life Office
in the World.
20-YEAR TONTINE.
REVERSIONARY RESULTS OF A
’Aonod oooiar
If 20-year
Endowment.
If Whole
Life.
g
If 20 Ltd.
Premiums.
i
m
g
The success that Amykos has met with,
and the universal favor it enjoys both in the Old
and New Worlds, is a sufficient guarantee of the
advantages resulting from its use as a mouth-wash,
gargle, cosmetic, &c. It is unanimously acknow-
ledged to possess a mild, and at the same time
energetic, efficacy as an antiseptic water, and is
superior to all antiseptics at present known to
science, as expressed by Professor Sir Joseph
Lister, of Edinburgh, in the Lancet, which alone
ought to make the Amykos a household word for
the Australians who esteem cleanliness. Sold by
chemists, perfumers, &c. Dep6t for Australasia,
87 Phillip-st., Sydney, N.S.W.*
“CORRECT THING AT LAST A
DARK AMERICAN PLUG TOBACCO
Beats anything yet placed on the Australian market.
Try it. Price, 5/0 per lb.
Stations and Storekeepers supplied at Special Rates
Apply
M. & H. WOOLF & CO.,
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(General Poet Office next.)
batch of able-bodied officials, and recompensing
them out of the private savings of the civil
servants in general, and then appointing quietly,
one by one, a crowd of personal friends and
supporters in their stead. Which, so far as
concerns the uninfluential official —the poorly-
paid individual who knows that he won’t be
pensioned off until he is 60, by which time the
Fund will be dead and his contributions all lost
—may not be exactly highway robbery, but it
gets there just the same.
S. A. Register, until lately a Democratic paper,
but now the humble organ of the Tory party,
recently made a violent attack on squatter
George Hawker, M.P., who represents North
Adelaide in S.A. Assembly. Hawker was
elected in ’93 by a workers’ constituency, mainly
because he was a moneyed man who had done
something for the workers, and who pledged
himself to support the progressive land-tax, and
he voted for Kingston’s proposals the other day
in accordance with his pledge. This riled the
Register, which said “the three members”
(including Hawker) “who so unexpectedly
went over to the enemy will be expected in due
time to explain their conduct.” Yet the fol-
lowing appeared in the Register of Aug. 2,
1890 :
“A new light is breaking in upon the people. They are
gradually getting to see more and more clearly that in
freedom lies their only chance of safety and progress
freedom in land .... and freedom to demand for their
labor the fullest and best prices.”
Since the above was written the Register
has “unmistakably gone over to the enemy.”
■*
One reason why public sympathy, more especi-
ally that of women, is with Dr. O’Hara—the
gentleman who damaged the Roman nose of
Purves and upset that eminent cross-examiner
in the gutter—is that, when a barrister publicly
and gratuitously insults a witness in court, the
latter has absolutely no redress save by “ plug-
ging” his enemy. Provided the Judge doesn’t
interfere—-and the Judge very seldom interferes
—a barrister may, for the mere purpose of
aggravating a witness, or only to let off his
own venomous temper, almost openly accuse
the man in the box of any kind of mean
or disgusting conduct imaginable. He may
do this, too, though the charge levelled at
the witness has no more to do with the case
than it has with the transit of Jupiter, and the
insulted testifier has not only no legal remedy,
but he has no opportunity of effectively dis-
proving the accusation. Therefore, a witness,
whose patience is not absolutely Job-like,
naturally kicks or horsewhips or blackens the
eye of the barrister, or stands him on his head
in the gutter, at an early opportunity. Where
the law carefully provides a gross wrong, and
is equally careful to supply no remedy, it
becomes necessary to find a remedy outside
the law. If it were possible to find some
means of preventing a hot-tempered witness
“ taking it out ” of the aggressive barrister
with his han Is then, sooner or later, a witness
would arise who would take it out of the bar-
rister with a gun instead. The occasional
thumping of a horsehair persecutor is a safety-
valve for the feelings of witnesses in general,
and if that safety-valve were tied down the
brilliant cross-examiner would carry his life in
his hand when he took his walks abroad.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
October 16,1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The question of the “ propriety ” of the living
pictures (they were a little too lively for Brisbane,
I believe, and were not shown in the Banana City)
is superseded by the introduction of a dubious oil-
painting {said to come from Chicago) representing
a lady clothed in air rejoicing in the promising
title of “ Nana.” From a woman’s point of view,
there is really no harm in Nana —a plump and
very pink young woman with nettle-rash on her
knees and heels, and a bust-formation suggestive
of table-gongs—but when the virtuous manage-
ment refuses to allow men and women to view the
“ work of art ” together, an aroma of naughtiness
hangs round the exhibit, and a rush sets in, of
course. But “ women-only’’-shows invariably
lack thrill. Their possibilities are most limited,
and their effect is never a patch on the electricity
which can be got out of a mixed congregation
and the “Songs of Solomon” on any ordinary
Sabbath.
“Nana” ought really to be discussed as a
theatrical item—but then she is so naively devoid
of clothing that I’m sure she is quite a “society”
notice —besides which so many society folks
patronise her. Little groups of Potts Pointers,
in thick veils, who had sat winking in their gigot
sleeves when poor trustful hubby commanded
them not to go, mobbed her on “ ladies’ day,”
and, taking her by and large, Nana has been quite
a fashionable fixture during the last fortnight.
A little spice was added to the show on the day I
went by the presence of a tall, weedy “ woman ”
in slop clothes and a very early coiffure, who
looked more like the widow Twankey up to date
than a bona-fide female. Mind you, I don’t say
that she was a he, for in this generation of he-
women bonnet-strings tied under the beard
wouldn’t surprise me in the least. But there are
some things even advanced women don’t do, and
one is moving aside with “I beg your pardon ”
when another cat wants to usurp a front place !
By the way, I was the only one who went unsup-
ported into the midnight gloom—all the rest went
in pairs. Womanlike ! If hubby finds out, each
blames the other. “ Mrs. Next-Door tempted me
and I did fall.”
But I quite fail to see what harm there is for a
woman to gaze on the picture of her fellow sister
in a birthday-suit, though prudence runs in all
shapes, of course. For instance, a Smellbournian,
who has collected much art bric-a-brac on his
travels, possesses a statuette of the Medici Venus
which caused his virtuous old housekeeper many a
downcast glance. One day he went for a trip some-
where, and, on returning, found the little figure
decorously rigged up in a paper frill going from
neck to knee like N.S.W. Attorney-General
Heydon’s bathing-gowns. There ought to be a
rosy billet going begging in the Gimlet Society for
a woman who puts a paper-collar on Venus.
Don’t you think that some of the Sydney pen-
ladies ought to elongate their descriptions of the
beautiful confections worn by the local nobility ?
The S.M. Herald informed a listening world, the
other day, that “ Miss So-and-So’s rose-pink was
veiled in black lace,” and “ Mrs. Blank’s salmon-
pink was trimmed with white lace.” These state-
ments seem very bare and unfinished, not to say
peculiar. lam constantly blushing, too, over
“ Miss Smith, who attracted much attention in a
blue skirt” (no wonder), and “Miss Blank, who
wore a most artistic corsage and a shower
bouquet.” Under the apparent circumstances a
shower bouquet would be about the most useful
adjunct possible.
The most disheartening point about the big fair
in aid of the Auburn cottage hospital at Sydney
Town Hall last Saturday was that Society in
charge of some of the stalls looked rather like its
own housemaids. It is not given to every-
one to wear a neat black gown, with white
cap and apron, and look as overpowering as when
gotten up in a velvet dolman and a nodding
bonnet; and, in some instances, the effect was as
Sreat a shock as it would be to meet Sir Robert
)uff doing the Block in pyjamas. The refresh-
ment-stall ladies, in fussy white gowns and perky
tulle caps, seemed like a bevy of bridesmaids, and
the hon. secs., in lilac print, looked as cool as
hokey-pokey.
The Cardinal, in full war-paint, preached a very
presentable sermon on Charity, under the guise of
an inaugural address, which was inaudible 4ft.
from the platform (I seriously think Town Hall
orators should be provided with speaking-
trumpets !), after which Lady Duff, in pink silk
(she ought to have exchanged notes beforehand
with His Eminence, to find out what dress he
meant to sport—as it was, their gowns simply
shrieked at one another), and a. big com. bouquet,
opened the market with a graceful undulation,
and then barter began. It strikes me, by the
way, that a graceful undulation, or even, an
awkward squirm, is a better thing to open a show
with in this verbally-worried age than any amount
of lovely language.
The bazaar made a good spectacle, but I was
amused to see how elaborately the stalls were
labelled according to the suburbs they repre-
sented, so that no rival borough should get even
the credit of a row of pins which did not belong
to it! Everyone for himself, of course, but it
would have been an act of artistic self-preservation
on the part of a few, at least, of the workers to
have fathered some of the fancy work on to their
unsuspecting neighbours.
I thought, too, that there was a trifle too much
orange color in the decorations for a bazaar pat-
ronised by His Eminence Patrick Francis Card.
Moran, and one advanced stall mingled pea-green
and yellow with millennial effect. There appeared
to be a good collection of wares, and figures were
not exorbitant. Some of the stylish church mil-
linery on view was very dressy. Now that artistic
church music is knocked on the head, I expect
the priesthood will have to give more thought to
the set of their vestments so as to keep the con-
gregation going. Father O’Flynn (in his generic
sense) was in great form at the fair, and one
Eouthful “father,” like Charles Ryley in a choker,
ad a bad time of it among the banditti.
“Society’’was represented in large quantities.
A military matron went round trying to sell a
china candlestick, and, judging by the way the
taper-holder hung fire, it seems a good thing that
the sale of china candlesticks isn’t the lady’s
serious occupation. The Queen of Hearts had a
blue band round her neck and a spring-green bow
in her hat, which was quite correct, however. It
is “ the snip ” just now to wear colors the ming-
ling of which was equivalent to dropping an aitoh
a few seasons ago, tho’ an artistic person cannot
help a fitful, unfathomable shudder, of course.
A doctor’s wife, in black and blue, suggested
ecchymosis ; and a lady in black, with puffy yellow
paniers, looked like a bee getting home after a
good day’s honey-making.
A fitful one-day race-fixture, called the October
meeting of the A.J.0., happened at Randwick on
13th inst., and went very lamely indeed, from my
point of view. Vice-regal interest was lacking,
for one thing, Gov. Duff being otherwise em-
ployed down the harbor opening the boating-
fatality season in a tall silk hat ; and spiders
gambolled among the cane furniture of the V.R.
box. The cream of the earth (it was there in the
relative quantities of a pint of cream to a gallon of
water) seemed afflicted with a sense of its numeri-
cal discrepancy, and if the day had wound up with
the “ Dead March in Saul ” in honor of the dull
proceedings and the many, “stiff’uns,” nobody
would have objected.
I am told that Gov. Duff, at the aforesaid
yacht-club opening, “put his foot into it’’ even
more deeply than usual. In his endeavor to say
something smart and airy about “ our gallant
commodore ” he caused that gentleman to wriggle
most uneasily.
Sydney charity-mongers must indeed be hard-
up for a peg whereon to hang a five-shilling ball,
when they inaugurate a dance in aid of the
Hospice for the Dying connected with St.
Vincent’s hospital. To do the thing correctly,
black draperies, and dance-cards chastely deco-
rated with skull and cross-bones and cut coffin-
shape, ought to have been the festive insignia,
and a supper of funeral baked meats would have
brought the thing home to the most thoughtless.
And what a charmingly alliterative title —“ The
Dance of Death ” would have made !
Talking about hospitals, the many Australian
friends of Miss Myra Kemble will be really sorry
to learn that she is seriously ill in a private ward
at Guy’s Hospital, London, after having under-
gone a severe operation for tumor. A few of
Miss Kemble’s intimate friends knew that her
trip to England was taken for the object of
obtaining the best medical advice, but nothing so
serious was expected as seven weeks in a private
ward, too weak to see her friends for more than
ten minutes at a time. The only spark of comfort
in the sad affair is that Myra has got down to a
feather-weight during her illness, and as she was
always worrying about her increasing plumpness,
the fact that her waist measures Din. again ought
to cheer her on to convalescence. What, I wonder,
wouldn’t a certain heavy-weight natural ingenue
go thro’ to turn the scale at seven stun ?
I was pleased to see Julius Caesar’s ghost walk-
ing at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Saturday night—
it seemed such a happy augury for the treasury.
But one looks in vain for fashion tips in “ J.
Caesar.” Calpurnia in green silk revived regret-
ful memories of the captivating Emily Fitzroy,
but Kate Bishop, in her familiar part as Portia,
looked as charming in her snowy robes as she did
five years ago. James Brutus Cathcart, in his
second-act robes, rather reminded me of half-
mourning notepaper, and the noblest Roman
of them all was Handsome George, in a white kilt,
as Marc Antony, whose legs (if I may be per-
mitted to mention ’em) and arms were properly
browned —unlike the antennae of Scot Inglis,
which were a dropsical white—as if the descend-
ant of Romulus was in the habit of sleeping in
long kid gloves with the hands cut off. The rest
of the Romans might be called Rura’uns. I
thought the play beautifully mounted, and if the
storm music was rather suggestive of somebody
throwing bricks at regular intervals into a cat’s
concert it was the fault of the big drum, whose
ardour was too much for his art.
A V.R. house lent a high-society air to the
dress-circle—the Governor’s box was full. His
Excellency wore a rose in his coat and seemed to
suffer from a sort of Yankee longing to put his
feet on the red-plush circle edge and be at rest.
Lady Duff hid herself behind a huge basket of
managerial roses, and it was a pity one of the
vice-regal young ladies —or, rather, her dress—
wasn’t hidden, too. The Guv’nah’s box, by the
way, took great interest in the Windsor Castle
act-drop, and, by their flattering reception of the
veteran Cathcart, it almost looked as if it had
leaked out that James boasts of having played no
less than 19 times at the actual Windsor Castle,
’tween ’49 and ’5O.
But the interest of the d.c. was not centred in
the well-known gubernatorial brigade. The most
gape-seed grew round; the bridegroom who
trotted out his brand-new bride for the first time
in a Sydney play-house. The invariable bridal
air—a sort of I-know-I’m-a-hero-but-please-don’t-
insist-upcm-it—which distinguishes nearly every
newly-married man, and a pair of new gold-
mounted specs., were the only signs of matrimony
observable. But Mrs. Pooh-Bah is pretty,
with a profile which will lead to her being mis-
taken for the charming wife of Sydney’s pet
Croesus, if other people are as quick at a likeness
as I am. Her hair is light - brown and frizzy,
and kept within bounds by an all-over net; and a
ruby star was the only ornament she wore in it.
What was the matter “socially” with the
Manly Flower Show last week, that a Sydney
pen-lady should make a veiled allusion to the
absence of the cr£me de la cr6me among the
audience in saying : “Later on Lady Duff led the
wey to the maypole?” Were no superior curds
present on the auspicious occasion ?
I hope the theatrical to-day (Thursday)
Sydney Association Ground, will draw a bumr? 11
house. Ter
A Northern charmer is sueing an ov
boastful gentleman for damages, defendant
having, it is alleged, openly exaggerated th«
strength of the intimacy supposed to exist between
himself and plaintiff. The latter explains cn?
fidentially, that “Whatever there was between i,»
he dno right to make a song about it. I’ll
him‘part up.’” Ke
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Melbourne Confidences.
Melbourne, October 16.
The fate of two of its inmates has caused
a flutter in a fashionable Melb. boarding-house
Some time back the first victim, a youth of
promise, wa‘s led to the altar by a
fellow-boarder, said to be 20 years his senior
However, all’s well that ends well, and, so f ar ‘
the match has proved a success. But, just the
other day, at the same establishment, a
Socialist was joined in the bonds to a bridegroou
of comparatively tender age, also a resident of the
caravanserai. Is it strange that the younger and
more attractive male denizens should be growing
pale and careworn? Fears are entertained tint
the tidings of these events will precipitate upon
the establishment an invasion of mature feinal,.
intellect, and so every knock at the door make's
half-a-dozen boarders shudder.
Two religious conferences going on simul-
taneously enlivened Melb. theological circles with
wars and rumors of wars. Though pressed hard
on this occasion by their Anglican cousins, the
Presbyterians, as usual, carried off the palm for
pugnacity. Parson Buchanan, of Bananaland
that thorn in the flesh of would-be despots’
promptly flourished a rhetorical shillelagh, when
his coat-tails were trodden on by a professorial
pepper-pot. The old hands of the rebel’s own!
flock are exercised in their minds, ’tis said, as to,
whether to regard their meenister as angel or
fiend. Though he fills the pews, and, conse-
quently, the collection-plate, the bawbees are
almost outweighed by his partiality for the
theatre, and for going behind the scenes in a,
short coat and red tie. Worse still, he decoys,
the mummers to church, on the plea that, as he’s,
been to their show, they should return the calk
The spectacle of play-actors carolling the “Psalms,
o’ Dauvit ” in the very kirk itself is bringing more'
than one Brisbane greyhead with sorrow to the.
communion-table.
Which reminds me that Moderator M'lnnes
(N.S.W.), whose heterodoxy once set the Sydney
brethren by the ears, managed to tumble into hot,
water, so to speak, while over at the Pres. Federal
Assembly. A suburban parson invited him to
preach, previously warning his flock to take all
that the visitor said with a grain of salt. The
sermon, which treated of inspiration, came very
near inspiring the congregation to commit man-
slaughter. When the unsuspecting preacher was
taking off his gown in the vestry, and com-
placently awaiting the little compliments usual on
such occasions, the door burst open to admit the
elders, who rushed in and simply “went it like
mad.’’ The local pastor tried to intervene on
behalf of his guest, but was more or less tongue-
tied by bread-and-butter considerations. Finally,
the moderator shook the dust off his feet and de-
parted, leaving the deacons to fall, like a spiritual
hundred of bricks, upon their own shepherd, who
sat in the midst dejectedly holding his head, and
wishing he’d never been born.
As for the Anglican Convention, the younger
clerics complain bitterly that they weren’t let boss
the show as much as their talents deserve. At a
recent afternoon tea, a curate, who crossed him-
self every time he took a piece of cake, held forth
on the short comings of Iris seniors. One of the
fathers, it seems, in a doctrinal address, had not
laid much stress on the fact that there are seven
sacraments. “ He was so cold—so-o cold /” moaned
the downy-cheeked cake-eater. “ When I preach,
on that subject, I positively foam at the mouth! ”
One touch of nature, &c., &e., and now that our
Countess knows the anguish of a nose in splints,
she has suddenly taken to doing the hospitals in ai
sympathetic bonnet. A few days ago, after a pre-
liminary canter round the wards, she treated the
inmates of a Melbourne institution to hygienic tea,
and antiseptic buns. Nervous invalids, I under-
stand, found their pleasure in the Countess”
society slightly damped by the fact that, whem
yarded up to a bedside, the ministering angel;
would shift uneasily from one foot to the other,,
frowning distractedly in an unsuccessful effort tO'
achieve a remark. It is easy to take a plunge inter
a hospital, but the art of talking “sympathy"
after one gets there is not acquired in a couple of
lessons.
Bananalanders are beginning to wonder what
dynasty will succeed the House of Norman £
The suggestion of “ acting-Governor ” provokes
no enthusiasm. Such-as-these are voted very
“ dry hash,’’ and their womankind, if they have
any, are too uppish for anything.
Once upon a time, a Northern patriarch, while
supplying a vice-regal interregnum, blossomed out
as an entertainer, and gave a big ball. Late in
the evening he was going upstairs, and, somehow,
experienced a certain difficulty in the ascent. A
few steps higher stood a decolletee dame, her bare
arms, of which she was immensely proud, dang-
ling ostentatiously over the banisters. The plump
members caught the climber’s eye, and, suddenly
laying hold of them, he swung himself by their
aid to the owner’s level. Arrived there, he
received a glance which would have melted the
marrow of a rhinoceros, but it extracted no apology
from him beyond a muttered remark to the effect
that, as they’d fattened at his expense, they might
as well be made useful : a delicate allusion, no
doubt, to the fact that the lady, in common with
his other guests, had partaken ostentatiously of.
the provided refreshments, such as they were.
On dit that the announcement of the last
“ big ” engagement was considerably accelerated;
in some quarters, at all events, by the scarcity of
once fabulously-abundant pin-money. ’Tis said!
that nowadays Pa finds more difficulty in laying
his hands on a £5-note than he would formerly
have done in raising 100 times as much
Another fad of woman up-to-date is her pro-
pensity for appearing in Court. Whether the
case in hand is murder, divorce, or affidaviting
for pa, there is always a heroine in the piece and a
jabbering crowd of female onlookers to enhance
the spectacle. One of these fair litigants, during
the storm and stress of a recent crisis, is said to
have openly requested an unconvinceable elector


THE
MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Of NEW YORK.
RICHARD A. MCCURDY, President.
Established 1843.
Largest & Best LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in the World.
This Company has received the Largest Amount in Premiums—
Has Paid the Largest Amount to its Policy-holders—
And holds the Largest Amount of Assets securely and properly invested—
£loo,ll7,36o
£75,592,184
£38.338.632
The Modern Forms of Investment Policy of this Company mark a Reform Era in Life Insurance.
EXAMINE THE NEW PROSPECTUS JUST ISSUED-
AUSTRALIAN DEPARTMENT:
Z. C. RENNIE ... General Manager.
Company’s Building,
MARTIN PLACE &. PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches
(131 PITT STREET (Temporary Office), SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
J 473 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
1116 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
. himself to a certain region, once name-
t° betake > of we u.brought-np young persons,
le " b ?i:„ at all events. And yet, when asked, in
in P ub n f her subsequent court experiences,
th. e . °heunderstood the nature of an oath?’ she
,f looked hurt, quite after the manner
b l U £old time female witness.
of tn , D , a i qprvice of the good old Dean drew
to the Cathedral, where (as
anl mmen. > sermon ) “more terrifying than
itself was the pomp of Death,” expressed,
Dea ?his occasion, by silent processions, solemn
on marches, and the presence of the massive
' Uden with costly flowers, chilly waxen in
coffin 1 ress i ve ly sweet in perfume. The floral
ln lrf’Te?e of all sorts and conditions, from
tnhutes wn built by professional fingers on
th0 I hstantial tinfoil foundation, to the well-meant
u p made effort, its straggling sprays wilted and
j on Sr under the weight of overweening neigh-
droopmg most cheerful> in my opinion, was a
w blue-and- white anchor, adorning the only
b g Jo, chair • but the vice-regal wreath earned off
yr" lra for size, while the orange and purple
dreamers of another garland recalled a phase of
the Dean’s younger days. . ,
Among the throng were the Mayoress, in deep
mourning 5 Baronet Clarke, finding no rest for his
nurses, hallelujah lasses, and parsons of all
f ° Uies galore, a pewfnl of Chinamen ; and last,
though unpleasantly prominent, that disturbing
angel of the present season, a whooping-cough
Ch m he first instalment of Belle Cole’s lingering
farewell was an inexpressibly dreary entertain-
ment She, herself, looked fairly jolly, but her
road i'u tors seemed to move and sing in a species of
waking dream, though, in the case of the ladies,
The resurrection of their oldest and most unbe-
coming gowns enlivened the scene by a sugges-
tion of nightmare. Newbury s successor looks
n ,t out by Nature for the management of a milk-
walk and appearances count for something. By
the way, appearances counted a good deal against
Newburv. Basso Magrath tackled the Bedouin
ove song, as of yore, with the demeanor of one
privately preyed upon by horrid internal spasms.
A nrima-donna of the future, discovered by Mdme.
Pin e on her former visit, was present, a,nd ex-
pressed her gratitude by handing up during the
evening a basket of choice vegetable matter.
The commotion at Dr. O’Hara’s house in
Collins-street, after the “doing” of Purves, was
absolutely unparalleled. Floods of congratula-
tory letters and telegrams came from the bar-
rister’s ancient victims, and the doctor could
hardly escape from the crowd of callers, especially
ladies, who pressed to shake his hand.
In former years, when Lord Hopetoun rushed
Melbourne with two balls in Cup week the invita-
tions were always issued five weeks in advance—
to prevent the clashing of social functions. Ail
last week people were much puzzled because the
(iovmentouse invitations were not out, and they
knew not what days were free for their selection.
VAN MAN.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEV SHOWS FOR. COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's G ® sar ;’’ „
Lyceum “Ma Mie Rosette.
Theatre Royal.. .’.’. .’. “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Theatre “ Morocco Bound.’ >t
Theatre Royal. ‘‘Mysteries of Melbourne.
Bijou Varieties and Opera.
“Julius Cfosar” began his career on
Saturday at Sydney Majesty’s without much
enthusiasm. Gov. Duff was present, and took an
interest in the drama after his own sad grey
fashion, and a rather medium audience stood up
in spots while the orchestra greeted him with the
Unnatural Anathema. But, despite Gov. Duff,
and despite the fact that it was George Rignold’s
birthday, the vast crowd which rolled up at the
opening of “Henry V.” was principally absent.
A Sydney audience won’t stand much Shake-
speare. Moreover, though “Julius Caesar” is
worth—except for spectacular purposes—a dozen
of “ Henry Y.,” he hardly got justice done to him
on the opening night. The Bulletin can con-
scientiously assert before any Commissioner for
Affidavits that, leaving out Messrs. Rignold, Scot
Inglis, and one or two more, it never saw a more
forbidding crowd of ancient Romans in all its life.
The fact can’t be disguised that —despite excep-
tions—the average actor-man is ugly, with a wan
countenance, a blue streak of stubble round his
face, and a flabby mouth, and Mr. Rignold’s
Romans, in particular, started out with the
appearance of being a very hard lob. Mr. Charles
Hall’s Caesar is a feeble-seeming conqueror, who
looks small in every respect, and when Mr. Rig-
nold, as a stupendous Mark Antony, orates over
his corpse, it looks like a very large amount of
oratory over a very small piece of meat. Mr.
Rignold is immensely forcible as Antony ; and
Mr. Cathcart makes an excellent, though rather
ancient-looking, Brutus. But probably the most
picturesque and effective figure in the crowd, as
well as the best-rendered character, is the
Cassius of Mr. Scot Inglis. The quarrel
between this fated conspirator and his hard
old accomplice is a fine piece of acting on both
sides. The rest of the co., with the exception of
Miss Kate Bishop in the comparatively insignifi-
cant character of Portia—which really consists of
a lady in her nightdress beseeching her husband
to go to bed—is made up mainly of nobody in par-
ticular. The conspirators, as already mentioned,
are mostly an aggravating assemblage, and the
back view of their legs as they appear beneath the
toga, is short and unimpressive. Also, Caesar’s
gbost is a comic, flour-colored object, and when it
takes its walks abroad and puts its astounding
head by night into Brutus’s tent it creates an
altogether unlooked-for effect. The new drama is
mounted with all possible care and much gorgeous-
ness. but, all the same, it leaves behind it a vague
impression that something is wrong. And, after
much thought, The Bulletin decides that what is
wrong is principally the conspirators’ legs and the
ancient Romans in general.
** * *
After a few nights of “ The Year ’49,” and
a few more of “ Arrah-na-Pogue,” Sydney Royal
once more accomplishes its destiny by closing up,
and Maggie Moore becomes only a memory and
an aching void. Miss Moore is about the only
person who ever makes the Royal boom nowa-
days, and when she departs—as she does a great
deal too often—the floor seems to drop out of the
establishment, for the time being.
** * *
“Ma Mie Rosette,” and the vision of
Nellie Stewart’s brief red skirt, and the leer of the
comely king, and all the painted magnificence of
that life of sin from which Rosette so narrowly
escapes, will die out at Sydney Lyceum on Friday.
Then, as the “ New Boy ” isn’t quite due yet, an
odd week will be filled in by the “ Mountebanks ”
■—an opera of which comparatively little has been
seen in Sydney, and which ought to stand a
revival for more than six nights if necessary.
« * * *
The theatrical carnival, which ensues to-
day (Thursday) at Sydney Cricket Ground, ought
to be the most momentous occasion ever recorded
in the annals of chappiedom. A notable feature
is the costume football-match “Males v. Females”
—this is taken from the advertisement; The Bul-
letin wouldn’t call the adorable Violet Varley,
for instance, a “ female ” for all the wealth in a
reconstructed bank. This paper’s private opinion
is that the average actor can’t kick a football
worth a cent, and that the average actress
can’t kick it at all, bub that doesn’t matter.
The only drawback in the arrangements which
is visible so far seems to be in the fixing of
the stalls. There are six of these, and the
first one is occupied by Nellie Stewart, Con-
stance Deorwyn and Florence Young, which
undue concentration of beauty in one spot means
that some dude or other will almost certainly be
trodden to death in the doorway. Moreover, it is
sheer waste to let anybody see all theseladies for the
price of one cup of coffee. The sports programme
includes ten events, bicycle and foot races for
ladies being among them, and the Permanent
Artillery Band will bray and pound its brazen
cymbal with dreadful persistence throughout the
afternoon. By some unfortunate omission, how-
ever, the name of M'Neill, the Evangelist, doesn’t
appear on the programme. It is to be hoped this
mistake will be rectified before it is too late.
* * * *
Mr. Arthur Garner’s benefit takes place
at the Lyceum next Wednesday, the 24th.
* * * *
“Morocco Bound,” which has nothing of
its own size to fight against, is doing well at Melb.
Princess’s. The bare back rows of the circle
testify to the absence of many bare-backed people
who haunt that fashionable quarter in the ordi-
nary way, bub the masses give their patronage
freely. The four ballet ladies, with their limbs
pointed in opposite directions, are seemingly ad-
mired. The sudden expulsion of Elton from the
Harem is also a popular movement. Considering
that the Harem come downstairs into the light of
publicity soon afterwards, it is hard to under-
stand why Elton couldn’t enjoy his peep in peace,
or why he should take so little interest in the
Vizier’s female perquisites when they meet bis
eye. “ Morocco Bound ” is full of such mysteries.
The audience is led to expect mighty things from
the arrival of the Squire’s son, Vivian, an alleged
stripling of 21 summers. Vivian promise s
to be a treat in store, and the chorus form
an exciting avenue of approach for him.
Bub, after all said and done, Vivian is
merely a taciturn intruder, with a small round
head, and singing voice to match. The leading
soprano is not a more unnecessary circumstance
than this same son, Vivian. Moreover, he seems
to have maintained his majority several years
later than the orthodox date. Fortunately, Elton
is still in good spirits, also Wilfred Shine has more
vivacity than at first. These two comedians make
all the running from start to finish, whilst the
vacuous attache generally makes a dead-heat with
the raise en sedne for third place. Then come
Gribben, Elsie Cameron, Miss Courtney, and
Aggie Kelton. The serious Vizier passes a lot of
beaten competitors down the straight, though
several of these may be sportingly described as
“ pulling up” all the time. The Squire’s younger
son gets left at the post. His fair young head is
turned the wrong way when the flag tails, and he
takes no part in the race.
* * * *
Phil Sbuarfc opened the Bijou on Saturday
with an entertainment that failed to carry out
several wise intentions. It meant to be a quick,
bright variety show leading up to a successful
operetta and a toney ballet, but —as Shakespeare
might have said if he had got in with an order—
the enterprise came tardy off. _ A shabbily
mounted first-part a nice idea in the
form of Miss Leslie Norman, a queenly contralto
who took the centre chair and conversed sweetly
with the blackened corner-men. This lady like-
wise sang sweetly. One or two other vocal turns
were above the average ’all form, and Horace
Bent burst out with some jokes that smelt fresh.
The rest of the variety programme wanted re-
arranging, or retrenching, when it didn’t cry
aloud for instant suppression. Finally, Lenton’s
adaptation of Offenbach’s opera-bouffe, “M. Chou-
fleuri,” was presented in an Anglo-French guise,
with the original names for the cast, instead of
under its adapted title, “Mr. Shrewsbury at
Home.” A sixpenny gallery takes umbrage at
names it can’t pronounce. “Choufleun” was
quite excellently sung by Miss Marie Elster,
P. 0. Josephs, and T. L. Middleton. The effect
of their first-class voices will be more appreciated
when they know their speaking-parts thoroughly,
and infuse a little ginger into the performance.
Also, the effect of the ballet, which made an
absurdly late appearance in the opera, where it
was out of place, will go for a good deal when it
gets the requisite amount of stage room. Miss
Laura Healey, affectionately remembered for her
high-kicking in “The Old Guard,” presides oyer
the dancing department, and Melbourne is glad
to see her once again. There is material for a
good show in the Bijou company. The curtain
was to fall at 10.30 on Monday, which suggests
that a number of necessary reforms have already
been accomplished.
* * * »
At Melbourne Royal they have been
getting through a short revival of Byron’s old-
fashioned drama, “The Lancashire Lass. ’ Charles
Taylor’s conception of the principal character, a
party by the name of Johnson, is the happiest
thing he has done this season. Johnson’s chronic
insobriety seems to fill the house with a delicate
aroma of rum, and his manner of falling down
so as not to break the black bottle in his tail
pocket calls for special praise. “The Shaughraun”
went up on Wednesday, and on Saturday they
produce “The Mysteries of Melbourne.” This
ought properly to be a financial melodrama deal-
ing with the fact that some people can pay a
threepenny bit in the £ without ceasing to ride in
their own “kerridge.”
* « * *
The irrepressible Lyric Club will give, by
its own general desire, performances of “Mar-
jorie ” at Melb. Alexandra, on Friday and
Saturday of the present week. Furthermore, the
Club will repeat the same bill on the same evenings
next week, unless Chief Justice Madden and other
distinguished patrons request these venturesome
amateurs to swerve from their fell purpose.
* * * *
A London correspondent to The Bxjlleiin
by last mail When the curtain fell last night
upon the new Adelphi melodrama, “The Fatal
Card,” and the young “colonial,” Haddon Cham-
bers, looking still in his early twenties, led on the
grey-bearded Englishman, B. 0. Stephenson, to
take their “curtain” and their well-deserved
cheer, it was a beautiful little piece of Imperial
Federation writ small. Interesting', thrilling,
heroic as the play was, it paled in all these tninpi
before the history of the man who wrote it, to
those who know something of Chambers ana
his struggle against obscurity, his victories and
failures, and his never failing belief in himselr.
Years since, in the middle eighties, when deputed
by the kindly old N.S.W Agent-General, a friend
of the writer’s looked the boy up ; he was found
lodging over a baker’s shop and existing upon
what God and the ravens brought him. In reply
to my friend’s query, “What can I do for you .
the cheerful reply of the unknown would-be
dramatist, looking into his shirt-cuff, was,
“ Nothing at all, thanks. I have a quill pen up
my sleeve.’’ Since that day Chambers and
his quill pen have been true to each other, a,nd
through sorrows and success they have struggled
on never doubting. Last night the good Excahbur
once again proved itself the man who
wielded it, and the man worthy his weapon.
For “Poverty Point ” see page 16.
AMelb. correspondent tells The Bulletin
that the Celtic Club is not in liquidation, bub
only in liquor. The club, it is pleasant to hear,
is so prosperous that, were it to wind-up to-
morrow, each member would get a decent little
div.
One of the parsons who attacked ex-
Speaker Bent at Brighton, Yio., for his alleged
“immorality,” has been by several
rich members of his congregation, business friends
of the ex-Speaker. One of these, it is said, bold
the poor parson he would not subscribe another
cent to the church. “ Then you’ll go to blazes,
said the parson, who for saying it is to be hauled
up before the awful Presbyterian Assembly.
Miss Ethel Turner, the young _ Sydney
writer whose portrait appears in this week’s
Bulletin, joins to keen observation and vivid
imagination a delicate literary sense and a con-
siderable talent for artistic literary expression. In
her first book, “ Seven Little Australians, just
published by Ward, Lock and Co., all these
qualities are shown to advantage, and the result
is a clever and charming narrative. Miss Turner
appears to have chosen, in the humour and pathos
of child-life, a subject with which she is in thorough
mental sympathy, and co which she brings an
admirable mental equipment. In scope and
treatment the book is a little above children, a
little below most grown-ups, and it will hardly be
acceptable to boys at any age; but to girls between
the lights, fluttering a new and timorous soul at
the meeting of the brook and river, and a brief
and tremulous gown nt the meeting of the calf and
ankle, “Seven LiU'e Australians ” should prove
at once an oracle and an ecstasy. And when Miss
Turner, like Miss Alcott, weds her little women,
one hopes to be able to congratulate her upon the
display of a creative strength and originality of
which now we have only the promise.
A sigh of relief was breathed by South
Australians the other day when news came that
miller John Dunn was dead. Not that John
Dunn was a mischievous man or a bad citizen.
Quite the contrary. But he was 93 years old, and
whenever the Tantanoola Tiger wasn’t raging
round or a supremely godly citizen wasn t being
found out robbing a bank, or there wasn t an
animated correspondence or a duel going on
between prominent statesmen, then the papers
would fall back with a dull, sickening thud on
John Dunn. And South Australians began to be
tired of reading how John bad been over 50
years in the province, and how he had been
the first to grind corn into flour, to build
a windmill, and to be a Patriarch. He
was a mighty Patriarch before the Lord ; and
the Adelaide papers, following the lead of the
Courieh in Mount Barker, where John lived and
died, uesd to take a ghoulish joy in describing
his progeny unto the third and fourth generation.
They would have built a church to him long ago
on account of his money-making and his windmills
and his great grandchildren. But John forestalled
them. He had already built a church in Mount
Barker to the honor and glory of John Dunn and
John Wesley and God. And now J. Dunn is
dead, and, after the funeral and memorial services
are over, South Australia also will rest from her
labours of reading about John Dunn.
Alfred Stephen, for 34 years a N.S. Wales
judge, and for nearly 29 years Chief Justice, died
Oct. 15, aged 92 years. He leaves 18 children, 66
grandchildren, and many hanged men and women
to perpetuate his memory. He was a good
lawyer, and absolutely just, according to his lights;
a man with a tough body, a strong brain, and a
callous heart. He was a relict of convict-day
officialdom ; and the criminal code which is his
chief work (apart from the N.S.W. Divorce-law,
for which the province owes him a debt of
gratitude) reeks with the convict taint. Blood
drips from every page. As a judge, he was
inexorable. His soul never softened to the cry of
mercy. He meted death to Mary Brownlow and
scores of others as if he was brushing away a fly.
This wretched woman, a virtuous wife and
mother, struck her husband with a dinner-knife
when he boasted to her face of his adultery. The
wound was not severe; but the man was un-
healthy, and he died. The offence was unpre-
meditated ; the woman was deranged by preg-
nancy and maddened with insults; the judge
awarded the capital sentence, and set his face like
a stone. Mary Brownlow lingered in gaol, with
the hanging in prospect, till her infant was born.
Then she walked with it from her cell to the
gallows, suckling it on the way. The child was
torn from her. The hangman butchered her- And
may the Lord have mercy on Alfred Stephen’s
soul!
Auctioneer levers, Vie. M.L.A., is about
to marry Miss Quinlan-Daly, heiress to something
like .£BO,OOO.
Max O’llell on Parkes :
An enormous head covered with a forest of white hair,
a shrewd and penetrating glance, a slow and unctuous
voice, an inimitable mixture of the lamb and the fox.
Sardonic Nature, jeering puny men,
Sends aged Alva to the breast again ;
And Sydney’s hangman, blood-steeped to the lips,
Through the dark Valley like an infant trips.
Assaulted in the morning, Purves’ nerves
were right enough to win {l5 birds), as Gun*
dagai,” the Moorabin Cup of the Melb. Gun Club
in the afternoon.
Purves was the man who struck O’Hara,
But circumstances change like luck —
The wicked Q.C., once a sparrer,
Became the man O’Hara struck.
A well-known Sydney demi-mondaine has
just been “ sent up ” again. The lady has pecula-
tory methods of her own. She works in con-
junction with a cab, and having robbed men whom
she bails up on the footpath, gets away in the
vehicle. When arrested the victim generally
cannot identify her, she having meanwhile dis-
pensed with her hair and her teeth, which are as
false as her tongue.
Cablegram ;
The Times says that no European concert to bring pres-
sure on Japan is possible. The quarrel must be fought
Enormous private orders for the supply of ammunition
have been received at Birmingham.
Sinister conjunction ! Is the “fool at the other
end ” an innocent, or a cynic of the deepest tub.
“ The son of a nobleman and general in
the British army ” was last week, at Sydney, sent
to gaol for 18 months for an unmentionable assault
on a boy. He had been exiled from England for
general loathsomeness, and since arriving in Aus-
tralia had been twice convicted of indecent ex-
posure before children. If he had been in mole-
skins he would very likely have got 25 lashes ; but
the lash is only for the man in working garb, never
for gentlemen who are the sons of noblemen and
generals. Anyhow, Thb Bulletin is glad the
poor beast wasn’t flogged. The lash is no remedy
for brain-disease.
O’Sullivan’s N. S. W. Libel Bill has good parts
and bad. Under the latter head is the proviso
that where it appears to a judge in chambers that
any action for libel is frivolous the action shall not
be maintainable. That might work well. If all
judges were perfect, it no doubt would work well.
But, if judges were perfect, so would everybody
else be, and then there would be no libels at all.
As things go, judges daily prove that the Bench
is no more infallible than the coal-and-wood pro-
fession ; and any Bill which proposes to add to the
judicial powers bears the brand of error on its
face.
Brewer M'Cracken, who so miserably
failed in his attempt to oust Alfred Deakin,
acknowledges publicly that he withdrew
from tradesmen who did not vote for him. “There
were one or two tradesmen,” he said at the meet-
ing of the Royal Agricultural Society, “as to
whom his wife had said she would not deal with
them any longer, and he took the responsibility
for that. . . He felt perfectly justified in such
a ease as that in saying he would withdraw his
custom.” If Mr. M'Cracken had talked thus in
Conservative England, he would be punished
under the Corrupt Practices Act, but in “ pro-
gressive ” Victoria be can acknowledge with
impunity having made men suffer financially
through not voting for him.
No prophet is honoured in his own coun-
try. No politician is big in a township
handicapped with his name. When Parkes lec-
tured at Parkes (N.S.W.), in aid of the local
People’s Institute, his three discourses didn t
realise, at Is. admission, .£5. Expenses, .£7 10s.;
deficiency, .£2 10s. And they couldn’t get people
to attend even when, as a last desperate expedient,
they sent round the bellman to say that admission
would be free. At Parkes nobody asked the old
man if he had such a thing as a thirst. During
the visit he was driven to Eorbes, 20 miles away,
where he remained three hours only, and was
twice invited to fizz. The teetotallers had
charge of Parkes at Parkes. At Forbes, the
Masons and the publicans came to his rescue. The
old fellow, by the way, said he “never before
charged tor admission to a lecture.’’
Now that summer is coming and the young
man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of wash,
that great institution, the sea-water swimming
and hot baths at 400 Pitt-street, Sydney, is in the
height of its glory. The swimming baths are
each 100 feet long by 40 feet in width, and their
depth varies from three to eight feet. They are
daily refilled with pure salt water, pumped up
from the shore at Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, and the
fluid they contain is clear as crystal. The water
is not stagnant, but is constantly flowing, so that
even the latest arrival need not solemnly speculate
about the habits and customs of chose who have
gone before. The price of the first bath is 6d.,
and after that a second bath may be had for 4d.
Also a hot salt water bath and a shower can be
obtained for the exceedingly reasonable charge of
9d. Messrs. J. and J. Walker, who run the
enterprise, have had the electric-light laid on, and
many other luxurious arrangements are supplied.
Among other thing's, the baths open at 5.30 a.m.,
so that people who have a weak desire to wash,
and yet don’t want to be accused of washing, may
get in unobserved in the small grey hours of the
morning, and escape again about 6 o’clock, clean
and unsuspected.


TKe Old Blervd
WKisKy
Cfth - e ,tE Horse
Cellar
WHl'
DIRECT PROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. HELLOVH
MVATURCD SCOTCH HALT
nburgn.
ĝ
FOSTERS
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston !s Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney
ACKNOWLEDGED
TH EBEST
I N THE MARKE i
ğ
whisk*
M.W.IC!
ġ
Personal Items.
Dean Macartney was not a teetotaller.
Australia’s most solidly wealthy woman is
threatened with matrimony.
Graham Berry is the first Englishman
elected Speaker of Vic, Assembly.
One of Henniker Heaton’s sons has joined
the warship Undaunted, now on China station.
The province of Victoria is making an
Australasian record in woman-hanging. Mrs.
Needle will be the third locally executed.
Premier Kingston (S.A.) was born on
Oct. 20, 1850, and Septimus Burt, Attorney-
General of W.A., will he 47 on Oct. 25 (Thurs-
day).
Captain Freyer, of Williarastown, who
welcomed Dean Macartney to Port Phillip on
board the Stag in ’4B, was at the Dean’s funeral
last week.
The religious influence of the late Dean ot
Melbourne is clearly discernible in his son, Hussey
Macartney, an Evangelical parson of the deepest
and dullest dye.
“ Why do we remain Jews ?” is the tex c
upon which the Melb. chief rabbi, preached last
week. Everybody nose why : Because there’s no
money in not being a Jew.
The thinnest Vic. M.P. has a fine fat name
—James Newton Haxton Hume Cook. His spon-
sors spread him so much at his christening that
he never recovered rotundity.
Duller, Maoriland K.C.M.G., openly boasts
of having persuaded Premier Seddon to put a sum
through for the M.L. court at the Imperial Insti-
tute. Quid quo pro: “Arise, Sir Richard ?”
Speight v. Syme jurymen received over
.£lBO each, and, out of the fullness ot their hearts,
gave .£1 apiece to the widow of the twelfth man,
who died. To pay for his funeral: fair comment ?
The Melb. Deanery is in the market. The
first tip suggested is Archdeacon Langley, who is
such a mirror of Bishop Goe’s mind ; but the
Bishop and the council would hardly dare to push
him on again so soon.
Chief Justice Darley’s success at N.S.W.
Bar was not very marked until he appeared for
plaintiff in the memorable case of Shepherd v.
Dibbs (G.R.), to which he stuck persistently until
his client triumphed.
John Leahy, king of Thargomindah, who
represents a few hundred square miles of the
“Never Never” in Q. Assembly, perorates on the
Land Bill: “Anything that is good in the Bill
is conspicuous by its absence.”
An ex-Melb. Standard reporter, who has
now settled “on the soil,” probably holds the belt
for an “expenses ” item. He one day charged 2/6
for “excessive heat,” and, what’s more, got it!
But the sub. said “ nevermore.”
The hyphen has been used to some pur-
pose at Camden Park, N.S.W. Here are a few
samples : Mr. Foot-Onslow, Mr. Onslow-Thomp-
son, Mrs. M‘Arthur-Onslow, Miss M‘Arthur-
Onslow, Mr. G. M‘Arthur-Onslow, ad lib.
Hori Grey says his health is better in
Britain than it was in Maoriland. The date of the
veteran’s return is unfixed ; meanwhile, Auckland
city electors are furious at being disfranchised for
the third tune when the House is in session.
At the time of Dr. Macartney’s appoint-
ment to the Archdeaconry of Geelong, 46 years
ago, residents complained warmly because they
thought him too old a man for the position. The
Dean was then about 50, and he died in harness
last week.
Among other precious possessions brought
back from England by Henniker Heaton are auto-
graph letters from the Prince of Wales and Lord
Rosebery. Both were written to help him on his
postal mission and in other Imperialistic under-
takings.
Henry Parkes, junior, a vigorous infant of
four summers, was the chief sensation of old man
Parkes’ visit to Parkes. The people surveyed
H.P., junior’s, fine, fat legs, and then looked at
H.P., senior’s, venerable locks, and murmured
wonderingly.
Parkes’ plea about poverty incurred in the
service of the country recalls Thackeray’s spend-
thrift, Barry Lyndon, who squandered his stepson’s
estate and then made out that the latter owed him
a further big sum for his extravagance in keeping
up the family position.
Archdeacon Giinther, of Parramatta, and
Card. Moran, disputing about a schism of the
year 1378, with the object of determining which
religious profession is true for 1894, stand out as
scholastic athletes without backers or public
interest in their sprints.
Melbourne possesses a military officer—an
engineer—who one day, as is his wont, instructed
his men in the making of various knots, the hang-
man’s included. One of the rank-and-file paid
particular attention to the h. k., and next morning
put it to practical test by suiciding.
The self-advertising ability lately deve-
loped by Mr. J. F. Hogan, M.P., comes as a
surprise to those who knew him eight years ago as
the bashful young man who used to announce
himself, in a “ from-Clare-God-help-us ” accent,
as “only the reporter from the Argus.”
The meek little Snowden, who practises as
a conveyancer, has been elected Mayor of Mel-
bourne for the third time. The reason for his re-
appointment was simply that nobody else on the
Council has money enough to support the position
in the manner which all “ right-thinking persons ”
desire.
Until quite recently, Maoriland’s Agent-
General wasn’t called “Sir ” at the Colonial office,
he being merely Westhy B. Perceval, Esq.,
K.0.M.G., which was because he had not received
his title from Her Gracious in his physical person.
This most important matter has now been set
straight.
A scoffer in one of Evangelist M‘Neill’s
meetings at Melbourne yelled, “ Why don’t you
work for a living?” “I do,” was the response—
“ I am on the job for the Lord, working piece-
work.” The advantage of working for the Lord
ies in the privilege of paying yourself out of the
makings.
Mr. H, Parkes has got into eminent com-
pany at last. The Argus: —
The late Dean of Melbourne, it may be added, deserves
to be classed with Gladstone and Bismarck, with Sir
Henry Parkes! and Pope Leo, with Professor Blackie
and the Duke of Argyll, as an example of enduring and
wonderful vitality.
Angus Mackay, of Nambucca (N.S.W.),
who died the other day, was 100 years old, and
is said to have been the last of the old-soldier
veterans who fought at Waterloo. Ry the way,
the coffin-industry is now so depressed that it is
high time another Battle of Trafalgar powder-
monkey patronised some undertaker.
Dr. Casement, of Kempsey, N.S.W., in
proposing the toast of the Governor at a social
gathering
“ I don't know His Excellency,” said the doctor. “I
am told his name is Duff. Whether he is a good or bad
Governor I can’t say. Why we want a Governor I don’t
know, but, as we have one, let us drink to him.”
Caserio, Carnot’s assassin, was indicted for
parricide, the French law constituting the Presi-
dent the father of the Republic. The sentiment
is politically idyllic in France, but would hardly
be a success, in similar circumstances, in Aus-
tralia. The reputation of the average Australian
Premier could hardly stand such an equivoque.
The other day N.S.W. Justice Windeyer
severely rebuked a solicitor “ for debasing the
English language” hy making use of the expres-
sion “ cleared out ” when referring to a co-respon-
dent who had absconded. This rebuke comes
well from a dignitary who occasionally quotes
comic-opera lyrics in his Full Court judgments.
After the tangi over the corpse of King
Tawhiao, according to ancient Maori custom, the
body was taken out of the shell by three high
chiefs, between whom the wood was divided.
Then the corpse was hidden away, as a prepara-
tory step for the big bone-scraping ceremony.
The poor clay is supposed to be hanging from"a
tree, pending the funeral-rites.
“ In the mysterious providence of God I
find myself called upon to become the Bishop of
your important see,’’ writes Bishop Kennion, late
of Adelaide, to the Dean of Wells. Rosebery
elevated Kennion from purely political motives,
but God moves in wondrous ways. He afflicted
Gladstone with cataract in order to make Rose-
bery Premier and so clear Kennion’s way to
Bath.
Li Hung Chang, the Chinese viceroy who
has been moulting so rapidly of late, was born in
1821—the year in which Napoleon died. Which
gave that courtly old humbug, Sir G. F. Bowen,
erstwhile of Queensland and Victoria, an oppor-
tunity to pay the great man a memorable compli-
ment. “ The great Napoleon dies,” said Bowen,
“ and Li Hung Chang takes his place. Nature
abhors a vacuum.”
Somebody named Samuel Wilson—des-
cribing himself as a special correspondent of The
Bulletin on a walking-tour round the world,
during which tour he carries no money and is to
RELIABLE EVIDENCE.
HOUSEHOLDER (who holds midnight visitor
“covered”): “ But you might be a
burglar disguised as a constable.”
POLICEMAN: “Ef yez'll come wid me to the
Plaice Station Oi’ll prove phwat
Oi am.”
HOUSEHOLDER: “And let you slip away
while I dress? Strike a match and
let's look at yer feet!”
trust entirely to gratia hospitality—has been much
advertised in the English papers. The Bulletin
doesn’t know Mr. Samuel Wilson, and sincerely
trusts that, as he cannot well be robbed on his
travels, he will be starved.
The late Prof. Hearn, of Melb. Univer-
sity, used to relate to his class an anecdote re his
colleague, the Professor of Mathematics, who was
famous for mathematical punctuality. To let the
Melb. citizens know it was noon he contrived an
automatic apparatus which fired a cannon at mid-
day. Result : Several young Victorians were
more than punctual in making their appearance in
the Lying-in Hospital adjoining the University.
A would-be J.P., says Scone Advocate,
wrote thus to a (now ex) member of N.S.W.
Parliament ; “November 5, 1892. Sir,—What
about J.P. you maid promis about ? I see E.S. is
one. I think lam a more fitter man than him an’
S. I asked you and you ort to have me put on.
Poor man dont git no justis way things is now. I
think you ort be shamed of yourself not have me
on. Other farmers on. I won’t vote for you no
more, and when I won’t nobody down hear will
nitherr.—Yours truly, .”
Dear Bulletin, —That old Dean Macart-
ney was “narrow ” (outside doctrine) let this first-
hand anecdote disprove. Coming to Melbourne,
years ago, and remembering that the Dean knew
my people, I called. Eresh from the tropics, I
was “ full of strange oaths, and bearded like the
pard,” and when a dog in the hall nipped me by
the ankle I discharged an able-bodied swear
almost in the face of the Very Rev, He said
nothing, then, but a few minutes later—“l see
your slip of the tongue is troubling you. Don’t
let it! It’s not a good habit to encourage, but
nobody knows better than myself that the world
doesn’t consist of parsons and school-misses ! ”
—Ulster.
When Dean Farrell was preaching to the
prisoners at Adelaide Stockade years ago, the
authorities once got word that an insurrection had
been planned by the prisoners to take place during
the service, the cue agreed on being the first
prayer of the Litany. The Dean was duly in-
structed to fall on his knees and stay there, and if
necessary the warders would fire over his head.
When he reached “ O God the Father of Heaven ”
the Dean duly dropped, but the trouble didn’t
come off, and his reverence, who was cool as a
cucumber, went right on through the Litany, the
Collects, Communion, Baptism, Confirmation,
Marriage-service, Visitation of the Sick, and was
in the middle of the order for the Burial of the
Dead when it was pointed out that no trouble had
eventuated, so the service was concluded.
Squatter Riddoch and Labor-member Price
live close together in an Adelaide suburb two or
three miles from Parliament House. One dark,
drizzling night, recently, after a late sitting, when
all the trams had gone, Price, feeling cold and
tired, was crossing the wide footpath opposite the
House when Riddoch, gloved and great-coated,
passed briskly by to his carriage, standing near
the kerb. “ Hello, Price. A nasty night, isn’t it?
Are you going home ?” he said in such a cordial
fashion that Price began to think pastoralists were
not such bad fellows, after all. “ Yes,” answered
Price, effusively, stepping up nearer so as not
to keep his questioner waiting when he received
the expected invitation to mount beside him. But
his heart nearly choked him when Riddoch,
gathering up the reins, threw a cheery “ Good
night ”at him and drove off. Now, if any project
for bursting up large estates comes before the
legislature it will have at least one earnest sup-
porter.
The system of railway management hy
commissioners resulted, in Victoria, in practical
insolvency, while in N.S. Wales it has made the
railway system more efficient and more profitable
than it ever was before. The difference probably
lies in the fact that Speight is English, while Eddy
is Scotch. The Scotchman’s iron determination
to save the bawbees makes him the best banker,
auditor, company-manager and financier on this
earth. For the good of the world in general,
Scotchmen ought to be prohibited from inter-
marrying with other races, and thus spoiling, or
at least diluting, their trading instinct. The
nation ought to he carefully preserved, in order
that it may supply the whole human race with
accountants, auditors, and financiers in general
To empioy the Scotchman at agriculture fi sh | n „
and the like, when he is so badly wanted fi*'
the world’s finances, is a criminal waste. '° bou
Photo. by Wishart] [ Brisbane.
WALLY KERR, of Sydney, Australia’s champion
cyclist.
Someone writes that angry shots have
twice been fired in Australian waters. Once four
sailors on a Black Ball liner, under Capt. Forbes
in Hobson’s Bay, hung their shirts in the rigging!
as a sign they wished to enlist in the navy.
Forbes tried to get away from H.M.S. Pantome,
which then fired a shot over his bows. The other
case is supplied by the war vessel Victoria, which
fired after a ship, outside Port Phillip Heads, and
made the captain come back and pay his debts.
Let it be said again. In 1837 Henry
Howey, a Sydney milkman, bought Nicholson’s
Corner, Collins-street, Melb. (IJac.), for <£94. His
nephew, Major Howey, now lives in a Scotch
castle and draws £ 40,000 a year in rents from Mel-
bourne. The Major has never seen the “ beastlay
cawlinay. ” The Turner Government has started
a hunt after the majaw and his like with a tax on
unimproved land values. The property is let
on building-leases, and in 1888 it was valued at
.£889,500.
Not Too Late
WHILE WARNER'S SAFE CURE IS ABOUY.
A GOOD ship was rapidly approaching the breakers.
She had repeatedly signalled for help and fired
minute guns, but the life-boat on shore was found
to be unseaworthy, and before it could be made
good the gallant captain of the doomed ship ran
up the signal signifying too late.
What a world of agony is compressed in these
two little words. Too late for rescue ! Too late to
save life. Yet there was a time when it was not
too late. Before the vessel got among the breakers,
before the patient was given up, there was hope.
There is hope for you, and we want to do you
good. You are not feeling well this Spring. Your
appetite is fickle ; your eyesight is not so keen as
it should be j you are distressingly nervous; you
urinate more frequently than formerly; your
bowels are constipated ; you cannot sleep well,
etc. You take pills and doctor yourself a little,
but you feel no better. You consult your phy-
sician, who gives you a prescription or fixes you
up a bottle of medicine, with the remark that you
will be all right in a few days. But his prophecy
proves untrue, and while perhaps feeling no worse,
you feel no better. You have no particular pain,
and that is where the danger lies. Your kidneys
are affected, and, as they have no nerves of sensa-
tion, you are unaware that they are diseased.
Just now is the time when you should have help.
Advanced kidney disease, which the doctors say
they cannot cure, and which they do not cure, is
but another name for Bright’s disease. Your
blood is loaded with impurities which the kidneys
ought to excrete, but do not, and thus are driven
to all parts of your system. You are doctoring
symptoms while kidney disease is at the bottom
of all your trouble. .
Now, Warner’s Safe Cure is a medicine
especially adapted for all derangements of toe
kidneys and liver. It has stood the test ot 1
years’severe trial, and has come out triumphant.
We know it will do as represented, there is no
guess work about it ; and a million testimony s
from among every class of society can be produce
in proof of our assertions. Give this great rente .
a chance to cure you— it will do it not only quickly,
but permanently. Then be wise to-day, that thos
terrible words, “ Too late,” may not be wnttei
over against your life.


POLITICAL
POINTS.
It is to be hoped the Victorian Speaker’s
chair is duly fumigated.
Exactly half the members of the Queens-
land Ministry are lawyers.
The Vic. Government is now pledged to
“one adult one vote.” . This, of course, embraces
women’s suffrage.
Tory : “ ‘ Bedrock ’ says Syme ought to be
Vic. Premier. Why, he is, and Parliament
is formed of his employees.”
Carruthers’ proposed N.S.W. Land Act
must fail. It makes no special provision for a
certain notorious Western M.L.A.
Castine, Grainger, Downer, and Solomon
have stonewalled so well in S.A. Assembly that
only four measures have passed into law in four
months.
The S.A. Assembly consists of 54 members
(but four of whom are lawyers), and the only real
oppositionists are Downer, Q. 0., brother Henry,
Solomon, Howe, Castine, and Grainger.
The two Labor members for Charters
Towers (Q.) represent more electors than 11
Government supporters put together, including
Premier Nelson and Attorney-General Byrnes.
Tozer denies that he originated the Q.
Coercion Act. It came from the brains of two
Australian Irishmen—Attorney-General Byrnes
and Under-Secretary Cahill. What leg-irony !
Some very funny little stories are current
in London re a lately-arrived Australian Agent-
General. They tend to make him more popular
among “the boys,” but cannot be set forth in
print.
The two leading men in the Vic. Ministry
are lawyers with Jewish partners. Lyons and
Turner—Fink and Best. Victoria, whilst watch-
ing Turner and Best, must not lose sight of Lyons
and Fink.
G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., has left the Parkes
citadel of compromise and slammed the gate
behind him. Compensation in time is, beholds,
as indefensible on liquor-prohibition lines as com-
pensation in cash.
Colbert, the greatest of modern Protec-
tionists, swept away the barriers that hampered
the internal trade of France, and removed them
to build a strong wall around her borders. Who
is to be the Australian Colbert ?
Max O'ReH’s theory as to English colonies
having been gained at a small expenditure of
blood is like many anothersmartgeneralisation—all
moonshine. What about North America, the two
sieges of Louisburg, the siege, capture, and sub-
wx - oi
sequent defence of Quebec :
Editor Bulletin,—
“How many Labor mem-
bers of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment have gone back to
their original occupa-
tions?” Why not ask
how many could go back ?
A largo proportion of
them had already quitted
their “original occupa-
tions” before they were
elected. One, in-
stance, had been sec. of
the Typo. Association,
another of the Seamen’s
Union, and so on. They
were “demoralised,” if
that’s the right word,
before entering the As-
sembly at all. No man
can change his whole
course of life for three
years, and then return to
his old habits as if those
three years had not been.
— R.
When last heard of,
the little North Shore
(Sydney) to Hornsby rail-
way had cost £298,000
for construction and an
airy trifle of £281,000 for
land resumptions. The
line has probably im-
proved the adjacent pro-
perty to the extent of
fully £300,000, if not
more, and under an effi-
cient Betterment law the
whole of the aforesaid
£281,000 should have been
saved. Yet the North
Shore line is not an un»..
usual swindle in any sense
—it is only a plain, ordi-
nary swindle, and is pro-
bably, if anything, rather
more usual than the
average.
Dear Bulletin, —
Re Patterson’s sour-grape
contempt for the press.
You say “he showed
his gratitude to that
wretched Melbourne
(evening) rag by filling
it with electioneering
advts.” Showed his grati-
tude! Why, Patterson
owns almost half the
AN IMPOSSIBLE SUPPOSITION.
THE TR EVEL-STAINED (to barman): “ Give us a drink , boss."
BARMAN (pointing to railway tap) : “ Help yourself."
TRAVEL-STAINED: “ Good ’Eavens, sir, do you think I want a-
Wash?"
paper. —Yours, The Reckless.
Parkes enlarges his area of political hos-
tility as the days run. His enemies are not alone
his old colleagues, who accepted office from Keid,
but also the Premiers and Ministers in other parts
of Australia, who wrote to Reid in terms of
appreciation. All, all are now “scheming poli-
ticians.”
Maoriland is considering a scheme of com-
pulsory, universal insurance with a view to pro-
viding pensions for aged inhabitants. Every
country has to choose in the end between com-
pulsory insurance and the building of poorhouses,
and the insurance scheme is much the cheaper of
the two.
Moule, Works Minister in the last Downer
Govt., seeing the hopelessness of direct antagonism
to Premier Kingston, has formally and publicly
severed his connection with 3. A. Opposition. He
will gradually edge into a position which will
enable him to accept the first good thing offered
by either side.
Boodle wraith obstinately maintains Wool-
loongabba Stephens as Vice-Chairman of Com-
mittees in Q. Assembly, though after his recent
disgraceful exhibition at the expulsion of the
Labour members, even Brisbane Courier, the
strongest Press barracker the Govt, has, declared
him unfit for the position.
N.S. Wales, in the last five years of
Foreign-trade, imported £2,456,000 worth of boots;
Victoria, in the same period, imported <£541,000
worth. The difference, £1,965,000, represents
wages and profits to local artizans and manu-
facturers ; in other words, it is the difference
between Freetrade and Protection.
The voice was Hoskins’, and there were
tears in it. “I oppose this Mining Bill,” he said
in N.S.W. Council, “ because, among other things,
it will reduce wages and add to the destitution of
an already hard-pressed class.” Hoskins evidently
isn’t over-particular. The main thing was to
oppose the Bill; reasons be hanged !
In Maoriland the State proposes to annex
all unclaimed lands for the benefit of the Treasury.
They are to be held by the Public Trustee for
12 years, and if, at the end of that period, no
owner appears they become State property. In
Australia unclaimed lands, like unclaimed bank-
balances, belong to anyone who can get them.
When the present tax of in the £ on
unimproved values was proposed in S.A. Parlia-
ment, years ago, S.A. Tory party vehemently
opposed, alleging that it could be easily shifted on
to the shoulders of the poor man. To-day the
S.A. Company, the wealthy absentee corporation,
complains that by this very impost it is being
specially singled out for taxation.
Cook, M.P., in the new N.S.W. Ministry ;
M’Gowen, M.P., on the first Royal Commission
appointed in the Reid regime ; and so on. ihe
Reid theory is that, proportionately with the
votes they represent, Labor Ms.P. must share in
the governing. The theory is sound but is ap-
proved of by certain parties solely in the expecta-
tion that office will corrupt the men and disin-
tegrate the party.
Where now is the great Q. Panjandrum
whose presence was so necessary to “ save the
country’’—from his friends? MTlwraith, sad to
relate, lies semi-paralysed at Auchenflower, and
for a month gets never a line in the papers. And
the sun still sets and rises over 668,000 square
miles of Q. territory ; births, marriages, and
deaths go on as usual ; and the summer flies skate
as persistently as ever over Nelson s naked
cranium.
A resolution is to be submitted to Sydney
City Council that a bill be drafted for Parliament
making “ privileged ” all speeches, comments or
remarks made by aldermen-in-council, as the
speeches of M.’sP. are privileged. Held that
local government is the practical application of
democratic autonomy on a lesser scale, the liberties
of privileged speech conferred on M.’sP. should
equally be conferred on members of local councils.
The police on duty at certain N.S.W. and
Q. stations shearing P.U. agreement complain
bitterly of their treatment by the squatters, and
assert that the position of the men on strike is far
preferable to their own. On several stations the
troopers found, on their arrival, that only an old
hut—bare, dirty, and infested with vermin- was
provided for them, but neither food nor bedding,
the squatter explaining that, as he contributed his
share to the revenue, he didn’t see why he should
“ keep ” the police.
Bavister, M.P., proposed that each
N.S.W. member should be fined ss. for every
absence from a division, but the House emphati-
cally declined. It reminded too many people of
“Five shillings, or the rising of the Court.’
H. H. Champion has started anew demo-
cratic league in Melbourne. Inaugural resolution :
“That this meeting strongly urges the Govern-
ment not to miss this opportunity of placing a tax
on the unimproved value of land as a first source
of revenue,”
The Argus now calls the dual vote —late
the Thrift vote—“the Democratic Homestead
vote.” The Argus, which permits correspondents
to repudiate the term “conservative” as quite
out of place in Australia, begins to think there is
a good deal in a name.
y=^ E K
'\
IV)bj/-
full i
'fVrAS F^)b:
“Is Parliament to become the robbers
cave of the Civil Service ?”— Pattkesonite.
Max O’Rell’s statement that “Great
Britain acquired the colonies at the cost of very
little blood, but a good deal of whisky,’ as applied
to Australia, is more foolish even than it appeared
at first sight. The true state of the case is that
Britain acquired “ the colonies ” at no cost at all,
and the colonists drank a great quantity of rum
afterwards. Also, in most cases, they paid for it
themselves, and it was very bad rum, and very
expensive, and J. Bull sold it to them and pouched
the profits.
Who can read these headlines from the
Akgus, and still believe the old lie that no Cory
paper has any sense of humor
THE REFORM CLUB.
SOME OF' ITS OBJECTS AND USES.
By R. E. N. T
RENT is, of course, R. E. N. Twopenny the
man who was secretary to the Vic. “non-party
Central Reform League, and whose chosen candi-
dates were scattered in rout at the general elec-
tion.
Single-tax Freetrader Max Hirsch has his
vises —two uses. He spreads the gospel of land-
taxation, and he occasionally finds an opponent
who fires a good, hard truth at him. The other
night, after Max had said his monotonous say to a
Melbourne meeting, a rival orator pointed out that
a main cause of depression was the boom and
bank-swindling, “which had wrecked the savings
of the working classes, obtained through Protec-
tion.’’ A fact hideously apparent, but not more
apparent than the sin of allowing the chief
wreckers to go unpunished.
Poor old Baronet O’Loghlen is out of
office and out of Parliament, with no official salary
coming in and a family of nine children to sup-
port. He lias probably learned by this time that
no good comes to those who rat on their prin-
ciples for the sake of office, and herd with political
swine for the sake of eating the husks with them.
The Vic. Liberal party now disowns him, and
refuses to regard him even in the light of a pos-
sible prodigal son. They know he would only
come back to the fold for the sake of a slice of the
fatted calf.
N.S.W. railways, representing 37 millions
invested capital, earned for the year to June last
£1,270,610, or £179.870 more than the Vic. lines,
which represent <£644,306 more capital. Yet Vic-
toria has about the same population, gathered
more compactly. Further, S. Australia, Queens-
land, Maoriland, Tasmania, and Westralia have
48 millions invested, yet the net earnings of all
their lines together were .£26,678 less for the year
than those of N.S.W. lines. As long as the
figures pan out like that there will be no reversion
to political control in one province, anyway.
“The railways of Australia practically
represent the assets for the national debts of each
colony, and to-day would probably realise, if they
were to be disposed of, the full amount of the
national indebtedness.” So U.S. Consul-General
Maratta to his Government. It is when one reads
little things like this from disinterested outsiders
that it begins to be seen why a big section of the
daily press so persistently asserts that the railways
are a millstone round the public’s neck, at the
same time that it warmly advocates their sale to
a syndicate. The same old dodge—cry a thing
down, and perhaps you’ll get it cheap.
Particulars of the cost of the Vic. Parlia-
ment, prepared by a certain Financial Reform
League, include an item of -£25,000 as the
“ approximate value of free passes to members
and friends, including foreign and country trips
and fees on committees.” Much of the members
free railway travelling would not occur if it were
not free, so the amount named is utterly absurd.
The cost to the country is really no more than the
money which 95 members would pay for railway
journeys if they were out of Parliament. They
wouldn’t average <£2s a year eac' probably.
“ A journal that scattered lies broadcast— 1
a perfectly disgusting, lying paper, whose proj
prietor ought to be flogged at the cart-tail.
What is this—a mud-geyser in eruption? JNoj
only Dibbs on Sydney E. News.
Bishop Stanton, of Newcastle (N.S.W.;,
announces a panacea for shearing, mining, type-
setting, and all other labour strikes. It is— Let
rid of sin.” The Bishop and Clegg’s Conciliation
and Arbitration Board strike the Labour difficulty
at about the same spot, and stay there.
Trouble is continually simmering in con-
nection with theW.A. State-subsidised religious
school system. At latest, Govt, aid had been
withdrawn from one school (Christian Brothers )
which persisted in using the lesson-books of its
own dogmatic theology. Westraha is moving.
The objection to
an income-tax on she
gnund that it is in-
quisitorial and there-
fore provocative of
lying, is fully met by
N.S.W. ex-Treasurer
Burns’ speech of six or
seven years ago against
Customs duties. The
burden of both is
“All men are liars.”
The invasion of
China by an army of
20.000 Japs is a con-
siderable blessing for
Australia. It disposes
of the Jingo alarmist
who used to hire a small
hall and invite the pub-
lic to come and hear
about the Mongol
hordes that would pre-
sently capture this con-
tinent, unless we spent
a lot more millions in
defences. It is a death-
blow to certain literary
Tories, who loved to
depict a ruthless
slaughter of Australian
citizens, in gassy verse
and dry • metre. It
smashes up the General
Gordon theory of
Chinese domination,
whilst vindicating The
Bulletin doctrine that
the Chow is an inferior,
degrading animal, unfit
to occupy a dirty corner
in a new scientific oivi
lisation. Happily, wo
shall hear no more
nonsense as to the
possible consequences
of telling the leper to
go. The Japs have
fired a few cannon-shots
and blown away one of
the chief planks in the
platform of Australian militarism.
“We have been trying to grow grapes in
Greenland long enough,” writes a Yic. enemy to
local manufactures. A few Freetraders will be
fascinated by that foolish phrase, but there is no
analogy between growing grapes in Greenland and
making, say, boots, hats, and tweeds in Victoria,
where sheep and cattle at a few shillings each pro-
vide wool and leather, and the best tanning bark
indigenous to the soil, and rabbit-skins are
cheaper than anywhere else on earth. Growing
grapes in Greenland ! It is a case of raising
coals at Newcastle.
“Eight-hour Day is no holiday ‘ for us,’ ”
majestically says N.S.W. Supreme Court. Who
are the “us?” Within the past few months Pre-
sident Cleveland affixed his signature to a Bill
making Labor Day in the U.S. a holiday, there
being bub two other public holidays on his
calendar. In Australia, there are numbers of
holidays in celebration of numerous insignificant
events, all of which are dutifully observed by the
presidents of the courts, and their ostentatious
assurance that Eight-hour Day is not a holiday
“for Us ” starts the query : “Who are Us and who
are not Us?”
That serious old Conservative, John Hall,
K.C.M.G., gives it as his opinion that Maoriland
is “going back to Vogelism pure and simple, but
without Vogel’s genius to direct it.” It is about
time the Maorilanders dropped that old wheeze
about Vogel’s genius, for he never had any. He
merely had the same capacity for spending enor-
mous sums of money without any thought of the
consequences which brought the “Jubilee Jug-
gins” to beggary, and which broke poqr little
Montague Levey, and if Vogel was a genius then
Montague Leveywas one also. When he had the
credit of the province to back him he piled up
immense debts, and built great quantities of hope-
lessly unprofitable railway. When he hadn’t that
advantage he became a miserably unlucky com-
pany promoter, a tenth-rate novelist, and a failure
in almost everything he attempted. It is time
people gave up worshipping the Vogel variety of
“genius.” ________________
A WONDERFUL PROGRESS.
As Abo Lincoln said, “You can fool all the
people part of the time bub you cannot fool all
the people all the time.” Which means, after alh
that the great consuming public is fair, just, ana
appreciative, and knows a good thing when it gets
it. This is the secret of the phenomenal sale ot
Frossard’s Cavour Cigars. All smokers agree
that they arc mild and aromatic, whilst their
cheapness puts them within range of all classes,
being sold in packets of eight for one shilling.
Contempt
for your ailments is simply committing suicide.
Every man is the centre of the universe to himself,
yet how many do we daily meet who complain of
weakness, liver complaint, neuralgia, and so on ?
Hundreds of such sufferers are met with every
week who neglect their cases when there is a
reliable remedy in Clements Tonic at hand. This
preparation is distinct from the many disguised
purgatives called indigestion cures, the use of
which are most harmful to the patient. Clements
Tonic does not give relief by drastic catharsis,
but aims at curing the cause of the disorder and
then the unpleasant symptoms cease. If you
suffer, remember that without treatment the
disease must increase, and that it is criminal on
your part to neglect your case. At any rate, your
life depends on your getting proper treatment, and,
may be, the lives of a wife and family. Therefore
do not delay, get Clements -Tonic and do not
be put off with vile purgatives or substitutes,
and you will meet with the same success as
Mrs. W. Wills, Clinton-lane, Gonlburn, N.S.W.,
who writes on June 3rd, 1893 I have been
troubled for the last three years with headaches,
pains in the back, and shooting pains throughout
the whole system, complete loss of appetite, and a
languid feeling, and my eyesight got so bad that
I could not see to read even in the daytime.
About a month ago I had a severe attack of in-
fluenza. I was so ill and nervous I thought I
would never get better. After various remedies,
which did me no good, I was persuaded to try
Clements Tonic. After taking one bottle I was
so much better, and my eyesight improved—l
could read without trouble—and after taking two
more bottles I feel better than I have felt for
years. I intend strongly recommending it to all
my friends.—Yours gratefully, W. Wills, Clinton-
lane, Goulburn, N.S.W.


f3K
\\
k/n
ie
ATTEMPTED SUICIDE WITH A
PICKLE BOTTLE.
MOAMA, Thursday.—A man named John
Hallingworth made a determined attempt
to commit suicide here this morning by
cutting his throat with a broken pickle
bottle.
Jpl
Mr, Bavister moved tfcp first reading of
» bill to amend the Parliamentary Repre-
.entatlves’ Allowance Act, providing for for-
.'elturea by each member absent from divi-
sions in either House or Committee of the"
Whole, and for each such absence. Tha
amount proposed to be forfeited was 5s for
each such absence, unless caused by atten-
lance on any committee or sub-committee
appointed by the Assembly, and authorised
to sit during the sittings of the Assembly. .
The House refused by 117 voles to
26 to allow tha bill to be read a first time
'ttrr'r’,
ay rfctfajpa
Xm
*L *'
v* C
fll*.
n x
}sL‘sL
stst
3& Jt:
,«?
zt
£»*f
T*J iC
# **
J=. fcff
&
IN & CAMP .AT WOLLON-
GONG.
The Major-General, who slept under
canvas, made an Inspection of the camp
early in the morning, and complimented
the staff-officer, Lieutenant Taylor, upon
the manner In which it was laid out. "
faf fat/tt? fat*
0 Cafa "/au/Mf tys/dfaffa -!?■*-
r!
fe7/ow//?f factire/w'yfa *^‘ Ss \
Bridges; Chief Instructor and Firemaster; | Clyde, alias George Armstrong, was charged
Captain Antill, General Staff." with burglariously breaking and entering
The detachment of cavalry representing the dwelling-house of Miss Dora Coghlan,
GLOW OR THE QRAVE IN COREA
I "Principally the fiRAvt ■
SHoo Ti- (Hit Cljifst Nttp°l fo l'
fa djief of flrell'fJ ')' Wfll( ',
[A
\ kvher? I aj/e. §'W aI (er
iViMi iW-
PV
THE ENCAMPMENT.
lie enany, under Captain Lee, were seen
(ft about 2 o’clock In, the direction of Bel-
lambi, and Are was at once opened upon
them by the field artillery guns, command-
ed by Captain AntiJJ; The cavalry also
proceeded to attack them, and the infantry.
Clifton, Glenview-street, Paddington, and
stealing -therejn a silver inkstand, a bis-
cuit barrel, a number of knives and forks,
a tablecloth, a gent.’s macintosh, a pair
of gloves, and about 15s in money, the
total value heitie fiR. The accused was .
(aif ///s/’/’tfr/ 7 /s
/ Cdrr/jb <3* d&O'fi
/is v D sac//ce.d /y 77/
y£ me /e
you
« Vaifarr^
" 4> /o ~
/7f/" • •
'feprti im§h? ear :
oMcJvmr -
/art? y£'<°cc'/r?^
VARIOUS THINGS.


■T c>
MX 7°
V
\r yjf \
o -A \
o * V-
°v, \
V
\
f i
%
%
c
M
/f'
A TIMID SUGGESTION.
PERMIER: TURNER: "You are [?] w[?]t to the Ministry, I m[?], su[?]od, but you'd like to lever us at any time-we'll let you."


US
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CKLKBRATEU
EYE LOTION.
THIS Lotion cures Swell Inn and Sandy might,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have I Leah Eyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, Us. per Bottle.
iJSf Manufactured Solelyby ii. \. KO.SK, t licmisl,
631 GEORGE STREET, SVONEY.
There's
ood Healt
slas$ of
ma
hnapp
Society.
The Rodondo firemen are said to have
“behaved badly.” You can’t expect much
heroism for £7 a month. And firemen, cooped
like rats in a trap in the bowels of the vessel, have
been drowned in so many Australasian wrecks
that their successors have taken the hint. A man
with a wife and family reckons he has as good a
right to save his own life as anybody else’s—even
though he is but a fireman. Why should a poor
sweated wretch be expected to sacrifice his family
and himself on behalf of first-class passengers?
How much glory does he get ? Not even a grunt
from the man who reads the paper as he chews
devilled kidneys at breakfast.
*■ * m
The wreck of the Rodondo needs much
explanation. The two theories that she was set
35 miles out of her course by the swell, and that
her compasses were deranged by an engine carried
on deck, will hardly suffice. Where was the
standard compass, which is supposed to be placed
in a position exempt from such influences? Why
were not both these causes of error calculated and
allowed for?
* # #
Every single girl in Rue Australia is
engaged, says the latest correspondent; so no
wonder the 100 melancholy males who remain
ungirled are taking up with the local copper-
colored article. A brown loaf is better than no
bread, any day in Paraguay,
* * *
A constable was convicted the other day
of assaulting a man whom he arrested for “ dis-
orderly conduct.” He swore a wound on the
man’s forehead was there before the arrest. So
the officer was committed for perjury ? No. Dis-
missed the force? No. What then? Fined 10s. !
Booh !
m .9 9
N.S.W. Board of Health Secretary Sager
declines to publish names or circumstances of
lepers on the ground that such publication would
injure the reputation of the afflicted one’s rela-
tives. An idea tenable in the abstract, but how
does it run in countries which publicly—or in effect
publicly—hang individuals for the commission of
crime, and in which innocent men and women
socially die on the same scaffold as their strangled
kinsmen ?
9 9 9
The St. Kilda Mayor, with £250 salary, is
abused for not whiskying his aldermen, and a
threat is made that if he remain obdurate the
salary will be curtailed or cut off. Here again is
evidence of the social sham on which most Aus-
tralian public offices are built. Aldermen vote
out of taxpayers’ pockets .£250 that the Mayor
may whisky them ; and Governors get from £5OOO
to £lo,ooo—for what else?
9 9 u
Apropos N.S.W. Judge Docker’s com-
plaint about the woman who tried to interview
him in the interests of her convicted son : Why
doesn’t somebody make another song about the
Pruen case?
* * •
In Melbourne, as
in Sydney, law is no
longer the rich man’s
luxury. Although a
few of the “ eminent”
(or (xt-a voracious)
legal sharks still get
6-, Bd. for confirming
a client’s opinion on
the "either, and an-
other 6s. Bd. for en-
grossing the bill of
costs for said opinion,
tlnre are countless
scores of “gents”
(mostlyadmitted dur-
ing the last three
years) who eagerly
undertake cases—
however risky for
actual fees out of
pocket, depending for
remuneration on the
actions so undertaken
coming off in their
favor.
# *
“ My impression
is that large numbers
of young men, living
jn local boarding-
houses, have aban-
doned touch with the
Christian Church and
its works.” —Lament
of a rev. Melb. Pres-
byterian. Which
means, probably, that
the young man who
lives at a Melb. hash-
foundry has lost all
fear of Hell.
The sale of tickets by conductors on
Sydney trams will probably prove a mistake. It
was no trouble to buy tickets beforehand, and the
conductors had quite enough to do in collecting
them. Sydney steam-cars are too long for the
application of a system which works well with
the shorter cable-cars ; and either the staff of con-
ductors must be increased, or the work will be
done inefficiently.
» * *
The other day the police were called upon
to eject, from a certain arcade fruit-shop, some
young ladies who had made themselves objection-
able to the neighbors and had refused to quit at
the landlord s order on the expiry of their lease.
On entiring the premises the officers found the
damsels stripped naked, and prepared for a siege
behind the counter. But the law was equal to the
emergency : “ If ye don’t dress and clear out Oi’ll
turn the hose on yez.” The hose being produced
they soon gave in.
An individual, very well-known on
’Change, lately had the misfortune to lose his wife,
the blow being softened, however, by the sub-
stantial character of her post-mortem estate. A
niece remained to keep house for the bereaved
spouse. Shortly after the sad event someone was
condoling with the poor fellow, and apparently
his sympathy touched a responsive chord, for
when he said “I suppose you find things very
different in the house now?” the widower cried :
“I do. When I got ’ome from business the first
day after I come back from the hoffice there was a
nice fire burnin’ in the grate. There was my
slippers toastin’ in the fender. There was my
dressin’-gown put ready for me, and close by was
my pipe and my smokin’-cap that I always wears
in the hevenin’s. Then, in a little while, we sits
down to dinner, and I gets through the meal with-
out a quarrel for the first time in fourteen blanky
years.”
• » #
The latest surrender of Acquiescent Man
to the victorious demands of the Emancipating
Female is his weak submission to the new dis-
cipline of Male Cookery Classes. Yet the experi-
ence of the writer—who is a bold, bad man with
meek blue eyes—is that, either as a cook, or as a
scullery-maid, or as a waitress, or as a hospital-
nurse—the male specimen is far and away the
better mare. The average female Cook and Laun-
dress, the patriotic rebel of the labor-registry
offices, should now found and attend a Female
Academy for the Cooking of Balance-sheets.
There remains only one beam of sunshine in Mar-
ried Man’s dark horizon. He must agitate to
have a Bill passed for the Compulsory Granting of
Pin-money to Husbands of the New Order. Will
this stop the Grey Mare’s gallop ?
* # *
The festivities at the servants’ ball at
Melb. Guvmentouse, a month or two ago, are said
to have been roundaboutly responsible for the
subsequent ruction which resulted in the depar-
ture of two aidekongs.
* * »
Melbournian : “ Someone described Cor-
rigan’s funeral as a hollow thing. So was Dean
Macartney’s, with its empty carriages, and many,
many others stuffed with surpliced clergy, who,
by the way, seemed to be remarkably jocular
coming home, like the military band that plays
the ‘Dead March in Saul,’ going, and ‘Girl I
left behind Me,’ returning.”
• * #
Tff\
A NON-UNION SHEARING SCENE.
The old Dean of Melbourne’s last days on
earth were saddened by the thought that Talmage
and Mrs. Besant had been preaching strange
religions to the people. He drew very little dis-
tinction between the Yankee mountebank and the
high-thinking woman, inasmuch as neither of
them seemed to cherish a simple faith in Jonah
and the Whale. One bellows balderdash, and the
other preaches crystallised Christianity, but the
old Dean considered them almost equallydamaging
to society’s immortal soul. What a conclusion to
arrive at after 95 years of life, mostly spent “ in
the service of God 1 ”
m * *
Thrust—Argus a penny. Parry—Leader
threepence.
# • •
The civil servant was in evidence again in
Melb. Petty Sessions last week, rousing the
■ papers to funny pars. The heavy-salaried man
comes up, under fraud-summons, for cheating his
poor servant girl or milkman.
* # #
When Lady Glasgow returned, the other
day, to her gubernatorial mill in Maoriland, after a
trip ’Ome, the Government steamer Hinemoa was
sent to meet her. But the Hinemoa also had
some lighthouse-men on board, and, though they
were hidden away in the forecastle, Lady Glasgow
presently heard of them, and objected so strongly
that serious thoughts were entertained of throwing
them overboard. Then her ladyship disco'ered
that the Hinemoa had a common, mean little
launch towing behind, and she exploded with
indignation. She is also alleged to have pointed
out, through the Governor, to Premier Seddon,
NOT DANGEROUS.
WOOD CARTER: “Say, boss, vie and my mate wants to know what
Theosophy is. Is it catching?”
Landlord: “ Well, it’s a severe kind of dropsy. There ain’t no fears
of catching it if you stick to ’ard stuff,”
that this sort of thing mustn’t happen again.
Common report has it that Lady Glasgow is
rather a “ trying ” potentate.
# # #
Dear Bulletin, — Re Queensland schools
adjoining big gaols. Once, when the Brisbane man-
butcher had been at work, a lot of youngsters
turned up late at school. Excuse? “Oh!
waitin’ to see ’im ’ung.” They could see nothing
(that wasn’t their fault); but it’s a very nice place
for schools.—Teacher.
* * *
At Oamaru (M.L.) the magistrate was four
minutes late, the other day, in taking his seat on
the bench, whereupon an alleged embezzler
admonished him in severe language for his want
of courtesy in “keeping respectable prisoners
waiting,” and told him he ought to be fined for it.
The Bench was so flabbergasted that it sat up
with a glassy smile and took the reproof in dead
silence.
* # *
At a late W.C.T.U. picnic in Sydney
Harbor, a privileged male was addressing the
petticoats present, lie being appropriately bare-
headed, while his little son held Ids broad-brimmed
belltopper and wondered. “ And now,” said the
orator, rising to the heights of the great Drink
question, “ and now let us consider the pathos of
it.” Just then the tired youngster put on the
belltopper, which went fairly over his chin, and
knocked the pathos of the Drink question kite-
high.
* * *
Sydney Evening News reports that, “In
Corea, it is the bridegroom who undresses the
bride,”
# # *
Good bread in Sydney three loaves for
sd. ; sugar (with tea), 2d. per lb. ; good potatoes,
9d. per 281bs. The wind is tempered to the shorn
lamb.
At a Q. country hospital, the hospital
surgeon was given a certain salary conditionally
on his returning £25 per annum to the institute
as a donation. At another Q. country hospo 1 ]
the Government auditor noticed that 6d
quart was charged for milk, and, on enquiry
found that 50 per cent, of the money received bv
vendor had to be returned to the hospital in tt
form of a donation—this to swell the State siiLsim!
of £ per £ collected. ay
When a Yi c>
accountant was con-
victed the other day
of embezzlement, the
rev. gentleman “j n
whose church accused
was choir-leader, went
into the box and gave
him a very good char-
acter.” In conse-
quence of bis good
character he got off
with a month in gaol.
Then two warrants
for further embezzle-
ment were issued
against the man of
good character, and
he is, if possible, to ba
“ lumbered ” a second
time as soon as he
comes out. Altoge-
ther, it seems to be
about time that the
Church left off swear-
ing to the high princi-
ples of “respectable”
embezzlers. All its
evidence really
amounts to is that it
never knew prisoner
to embezzle anything
before, and that much
may be taken for
granted. Moreover,
the law never lets the
murderer off merely
because a parson
swears to hispreviova
good character, and
the same principle
should apply all
round. At the best,
the parson’s state-
ment that he never
before knew of any-
thing against the
prisoner is only a
cordial assurance of
his own ignorance,
and there is some-
thing wrong with the
law which lets one
man down lightly by
reason of another
man’s ignorance.
Governesses and others complain that
they are never in time for those vacancies with
large salaries attached to them which certain
registry-offices persistently advertise. The la rue
ones are all tided by the time they reach the office,
and only little ordinary ones are open. And
they say they never can learn who get the big
ones.
• * *
A copy of In Memoriam, which purports
to be the organ of the undertaking profession in
Melbourne, has arrived at this office. To all in-
tents and purposes, however, it is the organ of one
undertaker only. In Memoriam is not an
especially cheerful publication. It begins with
an “ad,” setting forth that the paper’s own special
undertaker will bury you for half the price
charged by any other undertaker. Then comes a
list of “Funerals of the Week,” giving the name
of the corpse, where it came from, and where it
was buried. The next items are a notice that the
Dwner will furnish a child’s funeral with blue and
silver coffin, mourning-coach, pair of horses and
gentlemanly ghoul, all for 30s. ; an intimation that
you can order your funeral by telephone; and an
announcement that, for a limited period, any one
having a funeral will receive a coupon entitling
him to have another funeral of equal value free.
Having got thus far, the writer turned over, and
learned that a still-born child can be buried “ with
plain coffin and van ” for 10s. ; that the
patent, glass-top, non-infectious coffin costs £5,
and plumes are 10s. extra, but, on the other hand,
there is no charge for hat-bands. Also, the memory
of the deceased will be kept green by an obituary
notice, published gratis in the columns of In
Memoriam on every succeeding anniversary of the
painful event. The paper begins to get cheerful
just about here.
The next noticeable feature is that the firm wdl
give funerals gratis in “ deserving cases.” In
other cases they will take payment by instalments,
or will take it out in goods if satisfactory arrange-
ments can be made. Then comes a column of
jokes, all about funerals, save one, which deals
with a case of premature confinement. The firm
also advertises old hearses for sale cheap, and
wants to let half a shop to a photographer, “work
given to pay rent.” The work, presumably, will
be photographing the deceaseds. Likewise, the
same enterprising undertaker has land for sale at
exceedingly low prices. The rest of the paper is
mainly devoted to an exposition of a certain
funeral insurance scheme, as follows
FUNERAL ASSURANCE.
What a pity people will not be ordinarily provident
and Sons will accept one shilling per month from,
o.- on account of, any person in apparent fair health—no
THE POCKET-PICKER’S PRAYER.
God bless the Parson’s pious chant,
God bless good Talmage and his cant—
It gives a clever cove a slant.
God bless sweet Annie Besant, too,
You should have seen the crowds she drew—
You should have seen us put them through.
God bless the ballet-girls divine,
God bless their dancing serpentine—
It gives a prig a chance to shine.
God bless revivalist M'Neill,
We don’t begrudge a bloke his spiel—
When we can work a wholesale steal.
God bless the shows that make us blithe,
The crowds through which our fingers writhe—
God bless our Patron, R. S. Smythe.


LAUNDRESSES
LIKE
NOTHING
BETTER
THAN
RED CROSS
SOAP.
IT WASHES
WITHOUT LABOUR,
AND
CLEANSES
WITHOUT RUBBING.
JUST TRY IT
NEXT
WASHING DAY.
ALL GROCERS.
READ, MARK, LEARN,
THAT
W. H. PALING and CO., Limited,
Are now receivin'.', nearly every wrek,
s'iipill ■ Is of
RICH. LI PP & SOI IN S
L I P P P I A NOS.
Genuine Lipps now on view in our Show-rooms < f ex-
quisitely pure and sweet tone, perfect m ohanism, -n,. rior
worinnanship anil unsurpassable strength of constru lion.
Tub Best Known and Most Favoiutk Pianos in
Austß'Lia ark the Luts.
W. H. PALING * CO.
Are also exhibiting some lovely specimens of the
STEIN WAY PIANOS
1' U nil'll PIANOS
I'd ’K E PIANOS
UEBEL & LECH I.EITEI! PIANOS
GOES & KALLMANN PIA.Oi
ESTEY ORGANS.
PALING’S ANNUAL, No. TO (Dance Music).
A Tremendous Success.
Post Free . .. is. 2d.
ANNE TT I GAVOTTE,
A rival to Immrr Weider. Posted, 2s. Id.
Violins, Guitars, Banjos, Brass, String ami Wind
Instruments
AT REDUCED RATES.
The LARGEST STOCK, GREATEST
VARIETY and LOWEST PRICES.
medical examination-and contract to provide for them
at death, a Funeral value £lO, In any part of Victoria. If
paid in advanoe, 10s. yearly.
All subscriptions available at any time as credit balance
in case of other orders ; each payment absolutely’insures
a certain benefit, and is not forfeited by any failure to
continue or by any lapse of lime. A £lO funeral, in the
metropolitan area, consists of crystal hearse, two mourn-
ing coaches, first-class fully-trimmed coffin of any color
Miss ETHEL TURNER, authoress of “Seven
Little Australians.”
or design, plumes, service of conductor and assistants
hat-bands, pall, &o. If more elaborate funeral desired
the difference can be paid or arranged for by increasing
the subscriptions, or for smaller funeral by discontinuing
the subscriptions when they reach the price intended.
See price-lists. Every subscriber introduced by a sub-
scriber ensures £1 non-forfeitable addition to the latter's
policy.
The only outside advt. in the paper concerns the
sale of an undertaker’s bankrupt stock, and the
only evidence of malice or uncharitableness is a
statement that another man in the ghoul business
lately ran a bogus funeral with an empty hearse
for purely advertising purposes. There is one
chaste illustration consisting of a picture of a
hearse with two black horses, and the quarterly
subscription is only Is. 3d. In Mbmoriam, by the
way, is remarkable as being the only paper which
hasn’t a bigger circulation than every other paper
in Australia.
# • * /
The latest thing in impostures is a weeping
little ghoul who calls at suburban villas and begs
for a few flowers with which to adorn his little
sister’s grave. Most people, under these pathetic
circumstances, gives the ghoul the run of their
flower-garden, and in between his violent attacks
of weeping he roots up 50 or 60 of the best
blossoms, and goes away sobbing bitterly. When
he has sold this lot he goes to another villa and
gets some more flowers to put on his sister’s
grave.
# # •
Hebrew pastors, besides refusing to marry
divorcees, will not re-wed a widower, or widow,
who has not completed the regulation 12 months
of mourning for the departed. But never yet has
there been built a law that the Chosen couldn’t
climb over. Up North a Hebrew widower, of but
six months’ standing, desired to replace his lost
Leah forthwith, but the Rabbi held out for the
full term, and declined to perform the ceremony.
The would-be bridegroom pleaded that his busi-
ness was being ruined for want of a wife to assist
him. But to no purpose—the old law, the Rabbi
said, must be observed, and the disconcerted
widower retired to consult Madame No. 2—who
next day sent a friend to call upon the Rabbi and
tearfully whisper in his ear something about the
dire disgrace which was soon to fall on the com-
munity if the wedding didn’t eventuate at once.
Two days after, the marriage did come off. Then
the Rabbi sat down to see the “ urgency ” of the
ease. And when he saw it, after two long, weary
years of waiting, he called it Jacob and blessed
it—perhaps. For anyone who can succeed in
“taking in ” a Rabbi, sheol need have no terrors.
# # #
Dear Bulletin, —Shellbac went to Lon-
don, by the ship Dumbell, last week. Two or
three nights before leaving Sydney, he stuck me
up for the price of a bed. “Thought you had
signed on the Dumbell ? ” said I. “ Yes, but she
doesn’t leave till the day after to-morrow. I asked
the ski[ per if I could stay aboard, but he couldn’t
manage it.” “Oh!” “He’s not a bad sort,
though. He told me that, if I was really desti-
tute, he’d advance me a month’s wages.” “ Well,
what do you want?” “Well, you see, I’m a
shilling-a-month man, and I’ll want all my three
bob when I get to London.”— Dipso.
» # *
Lawyer Gaunson, who defended Martha Needle, the
Melb. poisoner, at her trial, says “he has been given to
understand that she wishes to die.” The wish will be
kindly granted.
A resident of Rookwood, where is placed
the great Sydney cemetery, has written the
THE FALL OF MONARCHY.
His Majesty King Billy; “ Strange that a gentleman can’t walk down street without
being insulted by blackguards I”
Mayor of that boneyardy locality suggestin
that the borough should be rechristened “
more euphonious” name—one that would “pro-
duce pleasanter feelings mentally.” Take your
choice —Cadaveria, Bonarea, Sheolporch, Hearse-
grave, Casketville, Wormborough.
• • *
It would appear that the land-boom was not only
responsible for sweeping away the savings of the thrifty
classes, but for sensibly lowering the moral tone of the
community. It was not a very creditable story about
share transactions which was told by Mr. Thomas Bent,
in the Supreme Court, on Monday.— Melb. Age.
Editor Bulletin, —There is one line of
Sydney two-horse ’buses notorious for over-
crowding, yet they are never brought to book by
the Transit people. I was riding in one of these
the other day. It had a load of 29, its licensed
number being 20, and I asked the driver how it
was the Transit-officers did not come down on
him. “Oh,” said he, “when they report us or
threaten to take out a summons, we just see a
certain mutual friend who looks in at the Transit-
office.”—Yours, &c., Crushed.
* * *
Apropos of the alleged immoral massage
business in London, the following “advts.” from
Chicago papers have a certain amount of thrill
about them : “ Massage-parlors. New atten-
dants, young and beautiful: licensed.” “Two
young actresses during vacation would give treat-
ment; refined party. Apply, &c.” “The talented
young French lady presents her compliments to
all, and wishes to state that she is still giving
treatments. The little lady is pleasant and cor-
dial.” “ Two young ladies, employed during the
day, will be pleased to give treatment to a few
select gentlemen in the evening.” “Miss Amy
Amcalle, young (18) and handsome, will give treat-
ment to select parties at her own home.” “A
genial young lady, educated and refined, still in
her teens, will treat a few nice parties.” “A pre-
possessing young widow would treat a few select
parties at her own home.” Another establish-
ment declares itself to be “ the only genuine
Turkish baths in the world, with lady atten-
dants.” Another mentions that it is “open day
and night,” while a third has “a pleasant corps
of lady assistants.”
* * •
Women continually call for and obtain
drafting-work at Sydney Lands Office.
# # #
Australian girls, poor things, would be
having a dull time just now were it not for the
cheap matinee performances of popular shows,
which ladies can attend without male-escort. A
male convoy is a luxury that few girls can afford
these hard times. The average johnnie can’t pay
his board-bill, to say nothing of buying theatre-
tickets, as in the good old days. Accordingly,
the matinees have come to stop, along with the
depression.
Sydney Benevolent Asylum retrenches im-
partially. It has stopped, The Bulletin is told,
the sixpences previously allowed to its pensioners
for tram or ’bus fares between their homes and the
Asylum. Many of them are cripples, who cannot
possibly carry hope their weekly supplies of food.
Rent allowance is also cut down a shilling all-
round. No discrimination in this case either—ss.
reduced to 4s. ; 2s. 6d. to Is. fid. Bumble can’t
do a proportion sum.
* » *
Sydney University professional staff has
just finished a fortnight’s worrying of junior and
senior exam, papers. For this privilege 1639
candidates paid .£2083, and, in return, the Uni-
versity gives ,£3O and a dozen silver medals at
2a. sd. per oz. Candidates have apparently got
tired of paying fees, for within the last two years
their number has decreased 666—the number of
the Beast of Revelations —or about one-fourth.
But the great service rendered “ to the country ”
by the exams, is one excuse for this exclusive and
expensive institution costing the province .£18,695
last year.
* * »
“I went into a country hotel in Canter-
bury,” says a Maoriland pressman, “ordered two
sixpenny drinks, and put down a florin. The
landlord seemed astonished at the sight of the
coin, and, after searching all the premises for
change, he produced three threepenny-pieces,
a penny stamp, a halfpenny stamp and a lemon.
I believe it was all the loose change in the town-
ship. So far as coin is concerned, Maoriland is
stone-broke.”
* * #
Dear Bulletin, — Be “Keynotes”—men-
tioned, on your cover—the woman whose philo-
progeri iti venesscompletely swamps her amati veness
is not, as «he would have us think, a creature of
less earthly mould than her more normally-consti-
tuted sister. She is simply an unwholesome
psychic growth—more akin to lunatic than angel 1
—and fatuously forgetful, in any case, that, but
for the healthy natural impulses to which she has
a diseased antipathy, neither herself nor her mis-
shapen mentality would be in evidence at all.—A.
# • #
Pew-rents down to Is. 6d. per quarter in
Melb. suburban churches.
Bishop Goe tells his Melbourne flock that
“ the noblest thing which can occupy their atten-
tion at the present moment ” is the evangelisation
of the heathen in the South Seas. Yet people are
often found in Melbourne streets dying of want;
and others, whose great offence is their poverty,
are regularly sent to gaol as the only available
asylum for worn-out citizens. Local charities
languish for want of funds, and little, squalid,
local heathens of both sexes haunt the city hotels
in scores, cadging coppers under every pretext.
Distant heathen are always green.
“ Tallow firm ” and “ hemp has an upward
tendency.” Bad for Australia, The hangman’s
clients may yet have to find their own halyards.
Young, N.S.W, Freetrade Minister for
Works, has ukased that all Government con-
tractors shall pay not less than a certain recog-
nised scale of wages. Wherefore “Outis,” in
Sydney Telegraph, points out that this is pro-
tecting one class at the expense of the rest of the
community, and is an outrage on the Freetrade
principle that everything should be bought in the
cheapest market. But he misses the inevitable
moral, which is that there can be no such thing as
Freetrade, and that his own doctrine of free com-
petition is such a brutal, heartless, bowelless thing
that no one dares, for very shame, to live up to it.
The man who has the courage to be a thoroughly
consistent Freetrader, and buy everything in the
cheapest market, regardless of everything save
cheapness, must be a man without one gleam of
compassion in his boiler-rnetal soul, and Provi-
dence seldom makes a man quite bad enough to
attain the Freetrade ideal.
Concerning a Northern Territory white
who, when in the South, occupied a very decent
social position indeed, and who was lately killed
by a N.T. blackfellow, a correspondent writes
The Bulletin from Urandangie
Deceased was murdered on 3rd Sept, about 8 p.m. by a
black named Willingirra. He had come across a mob of
blacks at Bordiga, about 15 miles across I be border in the
Northern Territory, and kidnapped Willin-.drra’s gin,
whom he put into his waggonette and drove i ff. The hr y
followed on his tracks and pulled him up at a place called
Wallaya and demanded his wife, when Mr. took his
rifle and threatened the darkey, who at once left the
camp—only to return at dark and have revenge.
was sitting at the fire chatting with the father of one of
his gins while the rest of the tribe were having a corrob-
boree about a dozen yards away, when Willingirra sneaked
up behind a break-wind and drove a spear through his
victim. The spear broke in the body, and when it was
pulled out, a quarter of an hour later, died imme-
diately. Deceased has been consorting with the blacks
for years, and for the past two years has been living
totally with them and on their food. He had a gin nami d
Mabel and two yellow children ; the eldest, a boy about
six years, named after himself. Most of his time he was
living at a spring called Alcoora, about 90 miles from
Carandotta station, the nearest place of call; living on
wallabies, iguanas, and so on. His brother kindly sent
him a draft for £l5O, a few weeks ago, which would have
enabled him to buy “big feller tug out,” as the blacks
call it. I think it is high time the authorities stepped in
and arrested such men, as it would keep them from inter-
fering with the natives and save life on both sides.
A curious incident happened at the wreck
of the Rodondo. When the last boat left the ship
one of the passengers was observed to look
anxious and feel hurriedly in his pockets. Then,
without a word, he jumped over the side of the
boat and swam strongly towards the ship, amid
loud cries of “ Come back !” He reached the ship,
clambered up the side, and disappeared, while the
boat waited in suspense. Presently the man’s
face was seen again above the bulwarks ; the boat
put in close to the sinking vessel; and he was
hurriedly dragged aboard. Not for some time did
the others think of asking him what he risked his
life to secure. Then the man eloquently opened
his coat and showed a bottle of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, the greatest nerve and brain restorer of
the age.
LUCKY MARTHA.
When a dame is shut in a dungeon small
To feast upon felons’ fare,
And the parson makes a morning call
To solace her soul with prayer :
When the hangman lurks at the prison gate,
Though never a friend comes nigh,
And she’s bound to swing on an early d ite—
She probably wants to die,
To die—
She probably wants to die.
When the guv’nor sounds the knell of hope,
And sleep is a gruesome dream
Of a shrinking neck in a hempen rope,
Attached to a sturdy beam :
When the glistening tear declines to start
In the criminal’s wistful eye,
0, she puts a hand to her broken heart,
And probably wants to die,
To die—
She probably wants to die.
Then hip, hooray for the Law so kind !
Right merrily hip, hooray !
For it gets the prisoner quite resigned
To a drop on a certain day.
She quietly quits her sunless cell,
Which nobody can deny,
And the pressmen know, by the way she fell,
She probably meant to die,
To die—
She probably meant to die.
O deah ! O deah ! that’s too seveah —
The critic is mistaken ;
Our faith in them whom facts condemn
We’d fain preserve unshaken.
We knew the boom had cast a gloom,
And luck had proved untoward,
But even now we can’t allow
That Smellbourne’s tone is lowered.
Though captious cranks have curst at banks
Whose chairmen came a cropper,
The good old Law no reason saw
For thinking aught improper :
No taint of shame, or legal blame,
Could touch the deeds those men did;
The poor might groan, but Smellbourne’s tone
We still considered splendid.
Perhaps it seems that certain schemes
Were somewhat cronk and shifty—
Perhaps they may have swept away
The savings of the thrifty ;
It is the case that rumours base
Round innocence have hovered ;
These things are known, but loss of tone
Has yet to be discovered.
A KNOCK AT THE DOOR.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
When fortune smiles and all goes well,
And naught our happiness can quell,
We hear, from pleasant friends galore,
Their boisterous Knocking at the Door.
But not for long, for changes come,
Dread poverty stalks through the home :
Then comes—that horror to the poor,
An angry rat-tat at the door.
Again we hear, when one loved well
Is stricken by a sickness fell,
When she shall rise, perchance, ne’ermore,
The doctor Knocking at the Door.
When life’s short race, yet scarce begun,
And fever’s fiery course are run,
The horses black —oh ! God, no more
Such solemn Knocking at the Door !
Leichhardt.
A.R.P.


(( r* H A R L E Y'S
Will Vi»it
GOULBURN
COOTAMUNDRA.. „
WAGGA
ALBURY
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELB. ..
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE ...
AUNT”
Friday, Oot. 19
Saturday, Oot. 20
Monday, Oot. 22
Tuesday, Oct.
Saturday, Oct.
Nov. 3
is S?
At Poverty Point.
Ada Crossley, at latest, was still at work under Santley,.
Jrior to finishing off under Marches!. No end of engage*
inents awaited her acceptance. Ascherberg is bringing-
out a song with her portrait and a dedication to her sweet,
self on the front page.
Lusoombe Searelle has brsn telling a newspaper man.
that he has paid Donald Currie & Co. £21,000 during the
past five years for artistes’ passages to South Africa..
When one remembers the perky little man standing on a.
box outside Sydney Garden Palace grounds, distributing
“ gifts ” to the children after a sixpenny entertainment,,
and being unjustly reviled by those who came after the
aforesaid gifts were exhausted, one begins to think the
wheel of fortune does keep turning after all.
At George Edwardes’ “at home,” at London Prince of
Wales’, given as a send-off to the Gaiety Co, leaving for
America and Australia, the beauteous Ryley, who plays,
the leading part with the new 00., appeared wearing a.
bangle. An Australian bangle, ’tis said.
“ Plain Bill ” Holloway, says a private letter by last,
mail, made a decided hit with his opening piece at Terry’s,
theatre. The house was packed, the acting excellent, and
every one pleased. The play was a farce by Lestocq and
E. M. Robson, called “The Foundling,” and abounded in
good situations. The house was quite representative of
Australia, and I saw no end of familiar faces. At the
dress-rehearsal, Mr. and Mrs. Holloway and little Lestocq 1
were very anxious as to the reception in store for them,'
but after the first night smiles and champagne were much
in evidence.
A Bosh King—the “Australian Sardou.”
Manager (to amateur): “Is your stage fright gone?”
"Yes, she’s gone to her dressing-room.”
Emily Soldene is publishing her memoirs in the Sketch.
An Italian opera man, in Melb., lodged with a French-
man, whose wife left her false-teeth on the mantelpiece.
She caught the operatico fitting them into the maid-
servant’s mouth.
The skittish Mdlle. Duvernay, pet of the London opera
ballet, 60 years ago, married Banker Lyne Stephens, and
has just demised, after surviving him 30 years. Enor-
mously wealthy, she gave £70,000 to one Catholic church,,
and £20,000 to another.
The theatre cat at Melb. Royal used to walk over to the
Opera House, to see what kind of a house there waa
Ben Brown, a gigantic negroic minstrel and footballer,
of Brown and Newland, well-known in Australia, is.
husband of Marie Loftus, and father of Cissy Loftus. She
has clandestinely married Justin Huntly M‘Carthy, greatly
to the chagrin of her mother, and of M’Carthy, M.P.
Elton came out for “ Morocco Bound ” on spec, terms
—a small “ living ” salary and com.
Miss Leslie Norman, the contralto, who Joins the new
show at Melb. Bijou, is—well, very like the beauteous
Miss Jennie Opie.
“The Irish Parlianunf,” in “Morocco Bound,” is
another reminder that leg-shows are invariably conserva-
tive in politics. They are built by Tories for Tories, and
acted by men and women who, generally speaking, would
feel proud of a kick on the corn from Albert Edward.
One never hears a nice thing said of Gladstone by a leg-
shower, though Heaven knows the old man isn’t a very-
advanced Democrat. Being less of a Tory than Salisbury,
he is naturally despised by the loyalist who talks comic
songs. Your Gaiety burlesque bristles with contempt for
Labor members and Home Rule trades-unionism. Dramas
may treat of these things in a sympathetic strain, but
extravaganzas hate ’em. And the more vapid and naked
a performance, the more it seems animated by a desire to
hurl small jokes at decent legislation.
“Many people are surprised that the Much-Travelled
did not take St. M‘Neill in tow. He should be almost, as
payable as a Talmage and Besant together,” remarks a
correspondent. But the T. and B. shows aforesaid were
run on an admission-charge basis. M'Neill is run on “ the
box.” Smythe believes in the pay-box.
Mrs. Brough does not intend to return to Australia if
she can get a footing in London. She is a clever woman,
but has an exaggerated idea of her powers. A good dose
of London criticism will do her good. The B. and B. Co.
being good advertisers, Mrs. B. rarely gets a bit of
honest talking-to in the Australian papers.
One Aubrey Beardsley, the latest artist of the impres-
sionist school, is described by Oscar Wilde as “a silver
hatchet with greenish hair.” Beardsley, who is a flabby,
colourless young man with an axey countenance, is trying
his best to live up to the description.
Once before, when Rignold was “ Henry V.,” a friend
visiting him in his dressing-room remarked a large and
handsome portrait of Wordsworth hanging on the wall.
“ Fine picture of Wordsworth !” he said. Georgious Rex:
“Wordsworth?” “Yes, Wordsworth, the poet.” “Is
that old file the poet? I got him for a study of wrinkles.”
Whitburn joins the Cogills, at Melb. Oxford. Frank
Stuart made a mistake in missing William for his new
Bijou show, as that discolored comedian is a guarantee of
full galleries. Yet Whitburn defies the gods as no other
public performer has dared to do since Ajax.
Dear Bulletin,— You speak of the lank youth, Dor-
rington, son of the Kendals, shedding a feeble glow over
the Princess’s stage during the B. and B. season. Unfair;
he only got a chance in Grundy’s “Sowing the Wind,”
and then, as the well-to-do larrikin of the last century,
he showed himself quite capable of holding a Kendal to
the brightest stage lights here. He certainly shared
the general attention with Brough and Titheradge, but
not the press mention.—S.S.
“The Gaiety Girl ” and “ In Town ” 00., which has just
started on its Murkan and Australian tour, will be the
strongest yet seen here in point of good singers, pert and
pretty damsels, and nimble-footed dancers.
Last week “Caste” was played at Melb. Bijou for St.
Patrick’s R.C. Cathedral, and the parish priest of St.
Francis’, from the altar, urged the people to give the play
a bumper house.
The young wife of an actor who sank her money In an
absurd theatrical fiasco was so deeply affected by the mis-
fortune that her hair, it is said, turned grey in one night.
During the suit De Alba v. Freehold Investment Co. for
damages, Mr. Purves, Q.C., twitted Madame De Alba on
the value she placed on her personal appearance. “Do
you think you are much less attractive now ? ” queried
the barrister. “Don’t you, Mr. Purves?” pointedly
asked the poor plaintiff. The Q.C. then remarked, “ Well,
I used to be a judge,” and let the matter drop. Mr.
Maxwell, who appeared for Madame, is a young Scotch-
man who was Prelector of his year at Trinity College.
His last big success was when he got Meoredy off, and
his present success against the strongest men at the bar
has sent him to the front with a bound. The £3OOO
awarded to Madame will be welcome, as she has lost
every penny of the comfortable fortune which was once
hers.
Viola: “ Alice Simmons, the brightest Intelligence of
the Melb. musical coterie, farewells, to try London, but
I doubt whether her voice is to be reckoned a pearl.”
The honest and popular Duncan Macallum goes to
Coolgardie to try and get his oyster-knife under the shell
of fortune.
Whispered that " Dot ” Bouoloault will marry in Lon-
don a certain fetching little soubrette.
Dear Bulletin, — How’s this 7 Maggie Moore, the chari-
table little mummer, always a hard-working artist, and
ever a Qod-send to the needy pro., has been ignored by
the Sydney Dramatic Ffite Committee.—Yours, Actor.
The fatal shears spared Alfred Stephen
till 92. But his life-thread was a rope.
Although the Argus of 12th October gave
full details of Hodges’ remarks re O’Hara’s £lOOO
fee, the Age report was absolutely silent on the
point.
Hardly credible, but true. The 14-year-
old imported maid-of-all-work, in a South Melb.
family, who had a broody hen, confidentially
informed her mistress, last week, that she could
not get the hen away from the nest, and was very
much “afeared that she’s a-going to have
chickings.’’
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Caulfield Guineas Day was less of a bookmakers’
picnic than it might have been. Both of the jumping-
races fell to favorites, and Challenger, winner of the two-
year-old scramble, was cheered home as though half the
attendance had found the pea. Challenger, from the W.
R. Wilson stable, is a long, large, elderly youngster, and
a determined galloper. Always one of the quickest off
the mark in innumerable false starts, he finally got well
away and gave the field no chance. A probable champion
two-year-old is Challenger. Otherwise there was nothing
striking in the performances of horses that “ caught the
judge’s eye."
The fair-and-square defeat of Nobleman by The
Harvester and Malachite, in the Caulfield Stakes, gives a
hopelessly mixed appearance to a lot of three-year-old
“ form." Malachite is considered inferior to his stable-
companion Cobbitty, who ran much about the same horse
as Nobleman at Randwick meeting. In the Guineas, a
■couple of hours later, Cobbitty cantered away from Be mie
Scotland and Chesterman, whom he had previously be en
and been beaten by. The most rational conclusion to
draw from so much in-and-out running is that neither of
the four last-named horses is a first-class one. Probably
'The Harvester will beat that lot for the Derby. The leggy
■Cobbitty, although built for speed, doesn't look like a
Derby winner of the Carnage, Strathmore or Camoola
■class; nor does the massive Moorite.
Dreamland and Forward, who respectively ran
third in the Guineas, and nowhere (unbacked) in the
Stakes, were the most taking three-year-olds to be seen
at Caulfield on Saturday. Remembering that they
finished first and second for the Maribyrnong Plate, one
is bound to believe in those two “ toffs ” until they have
belied their good looks. Forward is rather flash and
•circus-horsey in some respects, but an impressive animal
take him altogether. Dreamland is the more racing-like.
Dreamland’s ability to win the Derby is thought to be
only a question of health and fitness. He had the
strangles a while ago, but if that awful equine complaint
hasn’t left a serious weakness behind it, and if the
Ballarat horse continues to recover his lost muscle at
his present rate of so doing, he should capture the blue
ribbon, after all. Dreamland, in the Guineas, ran as
gamely as his sire, Trenton, used to run of yore, and
after the race there seemed nothing wrong except want
■of condition.
Devon’s easy conquest in the Toorak Handicap
introduced further complications into what may be called
41 plating form," which is the only form that several Caul-
field Gup winners have shown before the event. If Bruin
can stay the 1J mile course—it doesn’t require a real
stayer at Caulfield—he ought to beat Devon and a lot of
undistinguished performers, but, on the other hand, Cap-
stan should beat Bruin. The big black horse has very
little the worst of the weights with the prettier fellow on
the Newmarket Handicap running (both finished among
the first four) and he ought to have more stamina.
Tarcoola, though he begins to look ancient, should beat
all the heavyweights, especially if much rain falls a day or
two before the race, yet the same rain would give
Steadfast a chance to romp home, as he did for his
last race in public. Three-year-olds are bad to stand up
for this event, ditto heavy-weights. Although Paris
carried Bst. 81b. when he won easily two years ago, time
has proved that the horses behind him were not up to
much. Ruenalf would seem a real good thing but for a
grave doubt as to the merit of his Randwick running with
Brockleigh, and another doubt as to whether he can stay
1J miles at a fast pace. Still, he ought to hold Paris very
safe. It is impossible to avoid thinking that Ruenalf will
be in the first three, or that Steadfast will get a place if
the rogue tries his best. He seems to trv when the going
is muddy. Moscow and Tellus are horses likely to run
well over this course, yet they are only worth backing at
long prices. The writer will follow Capstan, if that fine,
fast son of Sheet Anchor is sent by Alec. Taylor and sup-
ported by the stable.
• * * *
The sporting moral of the O’Hara-Purvea fracas
seems to lie in the surgeon’s report of the gory incident,
as taken down by a Melbourne pressman. Dr. O’Hara
stated that Purves put up his hands when requested,
“ little knowing that he was facing an old athlete who
had won the amateur heavyweight championship at
Trinity College, Dublin or words to that effect. In
short, the doctor went for Purves because he could afford
to vent his wrath upon an amateur who is smaller than
himself, whilst Purves showed fight because he thought
he could mash his antagonist easily and safely. If Purves
had been Corbett the surgeon wouldn’t have hit him, nor
would Purves have hit back if O'Hara had been Peter
Jackson. It is impossible to show cause for recognising
the practice of fisticuffs between ordinary civilised
citizens. A big man may avenge an insult when
his aggriever can’t wallop him, whereas an irate small
man is tolerably sure to get injury added to the insult.
Consequently, it is unusual for anybody to receive “ a
thrashing ’’(as a premature plug in the eye is called)
when he deserves it, and when he cuts a heroic figure in a
street row the chances are that he ought to be held down
by a policeman whilst the crushed worm gave him a
severe kicking. We restrain our indignation or make a
deuce of a fuss about our outraged honor, just according
to the relative slugging capacities of ourselves and the
other fellow, Isn’t that it ?
» » ♦ *
Ruenalf is five years old—the lucky Cup-age.
* * * *
Tattersall’s sweeps are, of course, nob now filled
quite so rapidly as in the good old boom days, and sub-
scribers here and there complain that the drawings are
left too late to give holders of horses a chance of laying
off or interviewing owners. To thejwriter’s knowledge,
recently, the drawer of a horse in a big Sydney stable got
his result-slip the day after the race was run. The horse
who, on form, ought to have made a big bid, showed
miserably. A slice of the sweep might have livened him
up a lot.
* ♦ ♦ •
Ruenalf, on paper, is bound to be among the
first three for the Caulfield Cup. One can also make out
by “ form ” calculations that Steadfast (a roguish horse)
ought to lose Straightflre in the race, whilst Miraculeux
should beat Brilliant, Theodore, and a lot of other second
and third-rate horses at the weights.
• • * *
Miraculeux, who has been racing well lately,
originally cost 500 guineas, bub his disgusted owner was
glad to get rid of him for 100 guineas. He is full brother
to Donizetti.
* • • *
The two Isaacs being returned to Vic. Assembly
looks like a straight tip for the double.
• • ♦ •
On Saturday night, when Dreamland’s defeat in
the Caulfield Guineas was known in all the Australias,
the vast majority of punters who had for months past
backed him for Derby and Cup, went to bed and turned
their faces to the wall.
• * * •
An old Pacific Slope professional gambler lately
had a high time in Melbourne. His fatherly appearance,
and manners to match, made him look a soft thing for
the local sharps. A rare pigeon was on hand to be
plucked, so for a full week lights were not out at a certain
leading hotel. After the usual winning and losing, the
P.S.P.G. was £l7OO to the good—chiefly at the expense of
two recently-imported young Englishmen. Next day a
stranger saw the losers and “blew” on the old man—
marked cards, &c. They went in a body to the hotel,
but their guest had left by the boat for Maoriland.
♦ • ♦ •
Women now appear on Croxton racecourse,
Melb., in men’s billycocks and with bookmakers’ bags,
laying and punting.
♦ * » *
Thus “ Scrip” : —“lf a rank outsider is respon-
sible for the Caulfield Cup this year it will probably be
Taurus. He is the eight-year-old, but there’s nothing
like an old dog for a hard road. Tarcoola is the same
age, but is racing as well as ever. Taurus won the Ararat
Cup two seasons ago in 2.42 with fist. 21b. up, and won
the Hamilton Cup, 1J miles, with fist. 61b. up, and
another race the same distance at Warrnambool with
fist. 81b. Now, he has 7st. 21b., and why shouldn’t he
slip the public up and pull the bookies through with a
skinner? ”
* • » •
The Australian footballer, with his language,
bell-bottomed pants, hair parted down the middle, and
constant salivation, now disappears for asj a ‘G. Some of
him will hare to work during the summer, if all other
methods foil, but what becomes of the remainder 1s a
mystery yet to be solved. As a rule the class that plays
football in no way resembled the class that plays orioket
and once the former game is over one seems to have
struck a different country. The crowd at the street
corners, talking about “Snorky Brown ” and “ Slugger
Jones," where do they go during the summer?
* • • *
Unlike Melbourne, they play football on Ade-
laide Oval up to within three days of playing cricket. A
nice chance for caretakers to prepare wickets.
* • * *
The writer, who saw Jack Lyons batting on
Sep. 29, considers he is in better form this year than ever,
and is even hitting harder. Lyons has made 241 runs,
once out, already, and is in great fettle. George Giffen,
playing for his new love, the Adelaide Club, made 81 on
Sep. 29. Walter Giffen made a duck, first ball.
• * » •
S. A. football season closed Oct 11, when S.Ad.
and Norwood played off for premiership, the latter
Winning by 49.76 to 39.56. Adelaide football this year
has consisted of three-cornered matches between South,
Port, and Norwood, and these clubs between them have
sickened the football public even worse than in previous
seasons.
♦ * * *
The Melbourne bookmakers begin to look quite
calm and subdued. Unobtrusive watch-chain, no diamond
pin, plain gold collar-stud, plain gold cuff-links, and not
more than six glittering rings—except on Sundays.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — A recent par. re Blackham-
Tooher recalls a bit of night-watching done by Gilbert.
In ’74 Gilbert accompanied the N.S.W. team to Mel-
bourne. Sydney wanted 74 runs to win with 6 wickets to
fall when play ceased for the day, and after tea a few
wags in the Sydney team called Gilbert mysteriously
aside, and told him they had just heard a couple of Melb.
men arranging to empty a few casks of water on the
wicket, to make it sticky for the morrow. “ Great Swit-
zerland !’’ said Gilbert, “ I’ll queer that little show if I
have to sit up all night and watch”—which he did reli-
giously from sunset to sunrise.—W.
* . * •
An English weekly puts the cricket-case in a
sensible form: “Although in the aggregate it can be
clearly demonstrated that we are superior to the Aus-
tralians, there have been times enough when Australia
took the shine out of the cricketers of the old country.”
The same journal anticipates a tough job for Stoddart’s
team.
• * * *
Sir John Astley, onetime known as the jolly
colonel, provided food for the cablegrammer last week by
dying at an advanced age. The ruddy old sport was as
good as a father to go-as-you-please pedestrians in Eng-
land at the time when Rowell and “Blower” Brown
were making their heaps of gold. Astley, in fact, will
have to account on Judgment Day for the temporary
popularity of six-day wobbles, a form of sport that finally
wore out the patience of its admirers. He was the man
who found noble patrons for the wobblers, and gave life
to the game. He ran horses, too, of his own and other
peoples’. “Wales” started his inglorious turf-career in
the name of Colonel Astley, and the jolly one managed
the Heir-Apparent’s ’osses for him.
Photo, by Brand ] [Park-st., Sydney.
“GREEK GEORGE,” the Athlete
Steve O’Donnell has joined Corbett’s theatrical
tour. The latter, they say, has engaged Steve so as to
glean all about Jackson’s style from his best pupil.
* * » *
To account for the scarcity of old bookmakers,
remarks a correspondent, no one has noted the fact that
many of them make their piles in a few years and then
proceed to rent chapel-pews and live “ respectable.’’ No
mention is made of old backers. Who has followed the
game and lived long enough to get old ?
♦ » * *
At Johannesburg the tote pays out a div. on
the first three horses, two machines being used, one for
paying on the first horse alone, and the other for placed
horses. Lawyer Samuels, of New Plymouth (M.L.), has
been advocating the adoption of this idea, but without
success, his ciub squelching it. When worked out on
paper, the system, in the majority of instances, would
have a peculiar effect, for an outsider who rushed into
second place would perhaps pay a thumping div., while
the winner would probably pay under £2, or the third
might pay more than either. So that it would often pay
better to be on second or third than on the winner. The
only redeeming feature about the idea is that owners
would probably run their horses out and not instruct
f >ir jockeys to ease up out of place if they couldn’t win.
i.iere would be something in that, anyway.
Coros: It is by some peculiar accident that a
certain attorney happens to be on the spot when a tote-
raid is made, thereby falling into the pleasing task of
making out a score or two bail-bonds at a guinea each.
• • • «
To suit the hard times a Mslb. man oan get £2O
to Bd. the two Cups, or back any horse on the tote at from
3d. to 2s. 6d. daily.
Dear Bulletin,—Let me help your heredity
correspondents by stating a part of Weismann’a theory of
the germ-plasm, which is exciting the world of science
to-day. Most people know that a living body is built of
ceils, and that in the higher organisms anew animal is
born from the conjugation of a male and female cell. It
is now pretty well established that the germ lies in the
nuclei of the cells. These nuclei nuclear rods,
which are reduced in number by|jone-half by a compli-
cated process. So much is matter of observation: the
rest is hypothesis. Weismann calls the nuclear rods
idants, and divides them into ids (the bearers of the
ancestral germ-plasm which determines the character of
the organism). These ids are subdivided into hundreds
of thousands of determinants, each determinant going to
form a cell or a group of cells. Determinants are again
divided into biopho -—life-bearers, the ultimate vital
particles of the bodj. Suppose that 16 ids from the
father and 16 from the mother are supplied to make the
new body. Well, these are mixed and halved, and only 16—
not 32 —take a hand in creating the child. But it is'quite
uncertain how those 16 will be composed. They may all
belong to the father, but the chances are they are pretty
equally divided between father and mother. But if 10,
say, come from one parent in the process of mixing, and
only six from the other, you have what “ Reflex ” calls
“prepotency.” What law, if any, governs the mixing
process is not known ; but the marriage of every fresh
generation brings in 16 new ids, new elements of difference.
This hypothesis, by using the fact of extrusion and the
idea of unequaj mixing, easily accounts for the pheno-
mena of reversion, Weismann, by the by, holds indivi-
dual sex as a matter of little moment, seeing that the germ-
plasm remains the same. He thinks that the determinants
of both sexes are contained in each individual, the one
set patent, the other set latent—which accounts for
masculine women and effeminate men, by supposing the
division between the two sets hasn’t been pushed far
enough. But the whole of his philosophy rests on the dis-
puted contention that individually-acquired variations are
not transmitted to the offspring ; or, as Weismann states
it, “ that all permanent— i.e., hereditary—variations of the
body proceed from primary modifications of the primary
constituents of the germ ; and that neither injuries,
functional hypertrophy and atrophy, structural variations
due to the effect of temperature or nutrition, nor any
other influence of environment on the body, oan be com-
municated to the germ-cells, and so become transniiss-
able." Australian breeders should have something to say
on this point.—Yours, Brigham Brown, M.D., F.R.C.S.
* » ♦ *
Mora anguish for Moses ! A Maoriland racing
man has named his Ally Waikidikidi 1
* * * *
Auckland (M.L.) Cricket Association regards as
excessive the £I2OO guarantee required by Stoddan’s
team. A visit by them to M.L., consequently, cannot be
anticipated.
* • * *
Maoriland’s fastest sprinter just now is the
flying St. Hilda (by St. Leger), who carried top weight to
the front in two races, at Hawkes Bay, the other day.
At a meeting later on he was handicapped at 10-12 in one
race, giving some of the postage-stamp horses 61lhs. He
would win a fortune in Australia—if he wasn’t known.
♦ * * *
In reply to a challenge issued
by a well - known wrestler, Herr
Hajek, now in Sydney, another cele-
brated athlete, “Greek George,”
desires to announce that he is
“ on," and invites Mr. Hajek to
make a match for £250 or £SOO or
£IOOO a side. George is willing to
wrestle with his enemy in any style,
or to tackle him in a heavy-weight-
lifting competition, and is prepared
to meet him, at a fortnight’s notice,
at any convenient place which Mr.
Hajek chooses to select. In short,
he invites Mr, Hajek to come on
generally, and in any fashion he
pleases, only to come on quickly.
“ Greek George ” is a long, fleshless
person with the shortest hair which
Tub Bulletin ever witnessed, and
looks capable of carrying away the
office with one hand. He has a book
of newspaper cuttings which show
that, among many other things,
he has downed such wrestlers as
Muldoon, Ivan Lewis,Oarkeek, Andr6
Christol, Tom Cannon andSoraschi,
the Japanese. Also, he has broken
solid ropes and chains with his
hands, has balanced himself on two
chairs—his head on one and his feet
on the other—and at the same time
supported five fat men on his chest.,
has lain down with a large draught
horse standing on his stomach, has
held back a team of horses, and has
lifted up two men, weighing 2501 b.
each, with each hand. Under all
which, and many other equally
painful circumstances, he asks Mr.
Hajek to put up his dust like a
man, and get into his bathing-
trunks, and come right along.
* * *
North Shore R.O. eight got
a check to its winning career on
Saturday, when Sydney Rowing Club
beat them at the St. Ignatius’
Regatta.
Writes “Victor ” : The wretched starting fiascos
at Randwiok and Cculfleld last Saturday strongly arvue
for the starting-machine. By tedious delays at the post
many horses are beaten before even the race is run The
cussedness of the starter at Caulfield utterly destroyed
any chance Moorite had for the Guineas.
That same Moorite, however, will probably
avenge this defeat by turning the tables on his Guineas
conquerors and winning V.R.C. Derby.
The opinion here ventilated, three weeks ago,
that Cobbitty would eventually prove the best three-year-
old at V.R.C. Spring Meeting, was verified by that nag
winning the Guineas in 1.43 —about a best on record for
that race.
Cobbitty will likely be Moorite’s most dangerous
opponent in the Derby.
Dreamland’s so-so performance did not astonish
the writer who thinks the big Trenton horse will not
blossom till he’s a five-year-old. He’s but a baby yet.
Despite Bruin’s defeat in the Toorak Handicap,
his backers for Caulfield Cup may take heart of grace, for
he will as nearly win that race to-day (Saturday) as makes
no matter.
Gaillardia and The Captain will have most to
say with Bruin at the finish, though a long-kept one in
Azim Is whispered about. Such street-comer tips how-
ever, seldom come off,
Rnenalf is going great guns, and is all right.
The big money at Melbourne is not unlikely to cross the
border by the aid of this brother to Patron.
Tridentate, who made most of the running in
last year’s Cup, though previously eased in his work
owing to a broken blood-vessel, is now in rare trim, and
will be “all there” on the eventful Tuesday. He is a
proved stayer, which is more than can be said of the
majority, and a residence of a year in Victoria has
acclimatised him. If he does win, his party will land a big
stake in bets. 6
Honda is another that is doing well with a
special eye to the prize for which, two years ago, he ran
second. His weight is a handy one for such an upstand-
uve-year-old, and the victory would be begrudged to
Warwick Farm by no one.
N.S. Wales could nob score at Caulfield, though
second money in two| races was secured by Killiecrankie
and Solanum.
Will Sam Cook repeat The Admiral trick bv
winning both Caulfield Stakes and V.R.C. Derby with The
Harvester? The first event is landed, but the second is a
very remote chance, for the son of Sheet Anchor ran any
thing but like a stayer. 3
The best outsider in Melbourne Cup is Shotbol*
by Newmlnsber—Brunette. He is a rare sticker, and alst
has the necessary sprinting power.
THE BAT AND THE BALL.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
My Icn e is red as a damask rose,
And lovers true are we,
Though ever I strive to belabor her,
And she to outwit me ;
And yet alone we pine and moan,
We cannot rejoice at all,
For what is a ball without a bat,
Or a bat without a ball?
We never embrace, but we often kiss,
We only meet to part;
The farther away I send my love
The gladder I am at heart;
And glad is she to torture me,
Gladder to see me fall,
Yet strong is the love of the ball for the bat,
And the love of the bat for the ball 1
Her skin is smooth as a Ribston ripe,
Her heart is, O, so hard 1
And enemy-like she plots and plans
To catch me off my guard ;
Yet she is the only love I love,
And I am her all in all;
No stranger thing on the earth is seen
Than the marriage of bat and ball.
Melb.
R.C.B.


TATTERSALL’S
MELBOURNE O.—Nov. 6. ...
MELBOURNE O.—Nov. 6. ...
tssr 100.000 at 20.
&T 100,000 at 6.
TATTBRSiW,"
Care of Qborok Adams,
' “The Telegraph” Chambers,
I QUEEN STREET,
I Brisbane, Queensland
NIMROD’S
CAULFIELD o.—2oth October.
MELBOURNE o.—6th November
10.000 at 5
20.000 at 6
“ KTlmrod,”
Care of T. Enright,
TATTERS ALL'S HOTEL,
Flinders Street,
TOWNSVILLE.
DOUGLAS. PHILIP HENRY.-Communicate
at once with your Father ; legacy depending on it.
E. DOUGLAS,
O/o Tailor, etc.,
21 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Th eat r e roy a l.
Melbourne and Sydney.
MAGGIE MOORE
•SYDNEY SEASON (the most successful ever experienced;
terminates FRIDAY, October 19.
MELBOURNE SEASON commences SATURDAY,
November 3.
'lnaugural Production Little Jack Shepparo.
J. E. MOORE, Acting Manager.
“ The SongTf Yomig Australia. ”
NEW PATRIOTIC SONG
BY M . A M AT I .
This truly National Song, which should be known by all
Australians, may from &
Price, 8/6 (Post Free).
§ These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam of Oopa.ba, Oubebs or In-
ĝ
Each Capsule is
Slumped “ MIDY,”
i'Ctions and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
out inconvenience.
Sold by all Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:
EUiott Bros. & Co.,
and
Australian Drug Co.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 16,1894.
r■ TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until II o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24.
Bridge, Reeve’s Creek, road Casino to Mount
Lindsay
Construction of Service Reservoir, Contract No. 4
Junee Water Supply
Supply of Furniture, &0., Hospital for the Insane,
Rydalmere
Construction of the Rand wick Road to Doncaster
Avenue, Kensington. Stormwater Sewer Con-
tract, No. 109 Sydney Sewerage (fresh tenders)
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7.
Construction of Timber Jetty at White Bay,
Sydney Harbor
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5.
Bridge, MTntyre River, at Inverell
Bridge, Stonequarry Creek, at Picton.
J. H. YOUNG.
NEW SOUTH
WALES,
To wit.
E. W. DUFF
Governor.
Proclamation by His
Excellency The Right
Honorable Sir Robert
William Duff, a Mem-
ber of Her Majesty’s
Most Honorable Privy
Council, a Knight
Grand Cross of the
Most Distinguished
Order of Saint Michael
and Saint George,
Governor and Com-
mander-in-Chief of the
Colony of New South
Wales and its De-
pendencies.
IN pursuance of the provisions of the “ Inland
Waters Fisheries Act of 1887)” I, Sir ROBERT
WILLIAM DUFF, the Governor of the Colony
of New South Wales, with the advice of the
Executive Council, do, by this my Proclamation,
declare that the portions of the Castlereagh River,
Noonbar Greek,- Magometon Creek, and Warrena
Creek, embraced within points distant five miles
from the junction of the latter Creek with the
Castlereagh River, and more particularly described
in the. Schedule hereto appended, shall be Closed
against the use of fishing nets for the period of two
years from the date hereof.
Given under my Hand and Seal, at Government
House, Sydney, this 4th day of October, in the
year of our .Lord one thousand eight hundred
and ninety-four, and in the fifty-eighth year
of Her Majesty's Reign.
By His Excellency’s command.
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN !
SCHEDULE.
County of Leichhardt. The whole of the waters
of the Castlereagh River above and below the
township of Coonamble; also Noonbar Creek,
Magometon'Creek and Warren a Creek, together
with all affluents and tributaries within a radius
of five miles described from the junction of the
Castlereagh River with Warrena Creek, and
intersecting that river above the town at the
north-east corner of Grant Morris’s portion No. 60
of 80 acres, parish of Coonamble ; below at a point
half-a-mile distant north-westerly from the north
point of entrance to Coolibah Creek, parish of
Yoee ; Noonbar Creek, at the south-east corner of
T. Monahan Keogh’s portion No. 13 of 349 acres;
Magometon Creek, at the north-west corner of
camping reserve No. 1556, notified 20th August,
1883; Warrena Creek, at the south-east corner of
W. J. Taylor’s portion No. 34 of 68 acres, parish
of Warrena.
Amusements.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pltt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
is
Last Two Eights! Last Two Nights!
of THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
the Delightful Romantic Comedy Opera,
‘MA. MIES ROSETTE.
Saturday, Oct. 20—“ THE MOUNTEBANKS."
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Office at Nicholsons.
jjER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
"Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING I
Shakespeare’s Great Historical Spectacle,
‘JULIUS CiESAR.’
GEORGE RIGNOLD as “ Marc Antony.”
frW POWERFUL AND NUMEROUS CAST.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
-JSTAJSTj&I..
The Most Wonderfully REALISTIC PICTURE ever
EXHIBITED.
Now on View, frotn 10 u,m. to 10 p.nu,
—at—
-55 CastlereaglfSL (3 doors from Theatre Royal),
A Glorification of Womanly Form, an exquisitely modelled
Figure, expressive of youthful grace,the ®^ es o^?I d T ? 1 T 0
seem instinct with life. Admission, ONE SHILLING.
Exclusively for Ladies Wednesdays and Fridays, 3 to 5.
Lady in attendance.
ABELL & KLAER’S
EUROPEAN CIRCUS
—AND—
Academy of Trained Animals!
Location :
Opposite Redfern Railway Station.
LAST
WEEK!
MATINEE-SATURDAY!
PERFORMANCE-MONDAY !
CHANCES of seeing the best and
interesting show ever placed befor
Sydney public!
most
e the
The Circus will play the leading inland towns in turn,
and bids farewell to Sydney with keen regret, deepest
gratitude, and the promise ol an early return.
J. J. CAMERON .. General Manager
NEVILLE FORDER - Press Representative
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at In
SYDNEY. One is “TIME CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the otheria
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 60 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. GEO, W. ELLIS,
rpo SHOOTERS.—Complete set «f Reloading and Clean-
■ Ling TOOLS, 12 gauge, central fire, containing de-
oapper, re-capper, turnover, loader, extractor, powder and
shot measure, cleaning-rod, wire brush, ja<r, oiler, &c.,
free by post to any part of Australia for 10s. 6d. stamps or
P. 0.0. A. J. POTTER, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Read this:—Croydon, 23/1/94. Dear Sir,—l received
the set of tools some time since. I have reloaded hun-
dreds of cartridges and found the tools work splendid
and could not wish for better. In fact, lam quite sur-
prised with them for the price. You are welcome to use
this if you wish.—Faithfully yours, SAMUEL STONE,
Croydon, Queensland.
MELBOURNE.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL,
FRED. WILKINS, Proprietor,
Is the most comfortable and convenient Hotel for Families.
Commercial Gentlemen and Tourists.
Splendid Accommodation. Moderate Tariff.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lake Macquarie.
Terms: •//- And 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week
First-class Accommodation.
Access Easy. Train Direct from Sydney or
the North.
H. A. Brett - Manager.
OLD WHITE HART HTtTL
(opp. the Parliament Houses),
TVT ELBOTJBN 18.
First-class Accommodation for Families and Visitors.
'—Terms Moderate-^
Telephone m.] p, w. BAINES, Proprietor
Government Notices.
N
oTI O E UNDER REAL PROP ER T Y
A C T.
Form B of the said Act, on or before the date named opposite each case respective y 1
Property.
Name of Applicant.
Residence.
Date up to and
inclusive of
which Caveats
may be lodged.
No. 9314. Marrickville, 1 acre 1 rood 0| Frederick William
Enmore
Johnson
Harwood
James Reaoch
perches, in Fotheringham-street and Stan-
more-road—is part of sections B and Cof
the “ Fotheringham Estate,” adjoining the
Eroperties of D. Maitland, J. Mansell, H.
iickenson and G. Walker # ,
No. 9344. Pyrmont, 14 perches—is part of Septimus
block No. 36 of the “Ultimo Estate,” ad-
joining the properties of Mr. Fox and M.
Na°9425. Sherwood, 3 acres 0 roods 13, Absalom Walter
perches, at the junction of Fairfield and Hodges ...
Whittaker’s roads—comprising: parts of lots
Nos. 41 and 42 of the “ Sherwood Estate.”
No. 9426. Waterloo, 8£ perches, in Kellick-
street-is lot No. 1 of “Cameron’s sub-
division,” adjoining the properties of W.
White, Mrs. Jones and Mr. Mulley.
No. 9427. Muswellbrook, 125 acres and 1 acre
2 roods 12 perches, on the Hunter River and
St. Hilliers Creek—comprising lots Nos. 1
to 4 of section No. 5 and part of section No.
8 of “ Hall’s Estate.”
No. 9428. County of Wynyard, 318 acres, on
Umbango Creek, in the parish of Umbango
—comprises the land granted as 320 acres to
Thos. Walker. .
No. 9406. Sydney, 14J perches, in Sussex-
street, adjoining the premises of S. Hordern,
Mrs. Foley, J. Short, Miss Henry and M.
N? r 9430. Leichhardt, 14| perches and 7J Mary Catherine
perches, in Coleridge and Milton streets, TTarns ...
adjoining the properties of G. Gardiner and
M. Hegarty. .
No. 9437. Sydney, 14 perches, in Sussex
street, adjoining the premises of Cox Bros.,
J. W. Holmes, J. Healey and the site of the
Trades Hall.
No. 9438. Parish of Field of Mars, 11 acres
2 roods 16 perches, on the Pennant Hills
road—is part of 100 acres granted to Sami.
Marsden, adjoining the properties of Mrs.
Allsop and E. J. Maher.
, 21 Dec., 1894
SoutterLeichhardt
21 Dec., 1894
Fairfield ... 21 Dec., 1894
Sydney ... 21 Dec., 1894
Malcolm Campbell... Muswellbrook ... 21 Dec., 1894
William Yeomans
Isaac Israel
John Wright
Mary Ann Bellamy
Sydney
Lynton, near
Goulburn
Cookardina ... 21 Dec., 1894
... 21 Dec., 1894
21 Dec., 1894
~.21 Dec., 1894
Pennant Hills ... 21 Dec., 1894
Sydney
Diagrams delineating these lands may be inspected at the Land Titles Office, Elizabeth-stre«t,
Sydney. „ , j v October. 1894, at the Registrar-General’s Department.
Dated at Sydney this 12th day ot uctoner, av * £ jBS pinHEY, Registrar-General.
FOR
Department of Fisheries,
Sydney, sth October, 1894.
LEASES FOR OYSTER CULTURE.
APPLICATION
is hereby notified for general information that the undermentioned person has applied to lease
* Hunter Culture the portion of land set opposite his name in the annexed schedule. T
f Tracings showing the position of the portion enumerated may be inspected at tins Department
a *1 Saturdays between 11 and 3 o’clock, and on Saturdays between 11 and 12 o clock.
dal verson may to the Commissioners of Fisheries, within thirty days from the date
of thfs no£" on grounds to be stated in such memorial, pray that a lease of the portion may not
be granted. LINDSAY THOMPSON,
Dhifif Tnsnector of Fisheries.
WOOLLOOWARE BAY, BOTANY BAY.
ğ
A Perfect Boon to the Afflicted!!
WO nOKE DUCIOHS. WO MOIII
DR. A. W. HALL’S GREAT HYGIENIC DISCOVERY
for the Cure of Diseases without the use of Medicine.
This Wonderful Remedy, discovered by that Eminent Physician, Or
-\V. Hall, is now causing quite a sensation throughout Austra-
lia its marvelous success in restoring health to suffering humanity,
is without a parallel in the World’s History, and is fast revolution!-,
sing the Medical Profession at the present day. Every man can now
g
Wool and Produce Reports.
Yet once more has Gnffo shown his want of
hitting power. M‘Auliffe proved a regular punching-
ball Griffo hitting him when and where he liked, without
a return, but in the last round, with an eye closed and
blood gushing, M‘Auliffe was strong enough to rush
about, lungeing wickedly with right and left. How long
would it have taken Billy Murphy, as of old, to knock out
a man he could land on when and where he liked t
* * * *
Harry Roberts, who was with the Maonland
team of footballers in 1884 and is one of the HaH-Hacks
the country ever produced, now preaches at Wellington
street corners on Sunday nights against the evils of young
men doing anything in the way of in general.
Reported that Hon. G. Davis will go for Melb.
Cud instead of Caulfield, with Tim Swiveller, being
desirous of obtaining from the V.R.C. (ini case ofa ' w»n)
the money he lost through their reversal of the V.A.l.U s
decision when Tim won the Caulfield last year. As the
horse has won some good kmg distance 1 lurdl %^ ac f 3 ’ fJJg
is fast enough on the flat, 7.10 ought not to trouble
him in Nov. Malua over again, perhaps, only Tim has
271bs. less than the winner of ’84 had.
• ♦ * *
The average “Sportsman’s Guide,” or “Racing
Pamnhlet.” or any other production of the same class,
seeing to ignore one important particular in its horsey
records. You find lists of important handicap winners
furnished with dates, weights, number of starters, and
times taken by the clock, yet the slovenly compiler omits
to put in the age of the winning animal. Assyrian (7st.
131b.), the Melbourne Cup taker in 1882, might have been
as young as Martini-Henry (7st. 61b.), the succeeding
winner, for all that the little book of reference can show.
Even Miller's “ Sporting Pamphlet, which w, in many
respects, the best racing handbook printed in Melbourne,
has this absurd defect.
* * • *
Paddy Slavin ia very much alive once more,
and on Aug. 30 was out with a challenge to Corbett and
Jackson for £3000 a side, and the biggest purse that
offered. Slavin’s backers put up £1000 with London
Sporting Life, and left the offer open for a week. But no
news of a match has come.
Mr. Albert Sharp, the discoverer of the
new Cannalin remedies for piles, announces that,
in future, there will be a single charge of one
pound for the six weeks course of treatment.
This will avoid delay in serious cases from remote
parts of the colonies, as a pound-note can be sent
where postal-order is not available. Applications
must be accompanied by a full description of the
case, and be addressed plainly to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Old White Hart Hotel, Melb., under
the genial management of Mr. F. W. Baines, has
become one of the favorite resorts of the Southern
city, and offers very special advantages to tourists
and travellers. _
Fred. Wilkins, the erstwhile genial host
of Craig’s Hotel, Ballarat, and of the Shamrock
Hotel, Bendigo, is now running the Oriental
Hotel, Melb., with marked success. < For situa-
tion, luxury and the moderation of its charges,
the Oriental has no rival in the Southern capital.
That fine old Sydney hostelry, the Royal,
George-street, has passed into the hands of Mr.
and Mrs. Tidswell, so long and favourably known
throughout Australasia as host and hostess of the
Metropolitan. The Royal probably has more
balconies and airy lounging places than any other
single building in the city, and contains splendid
reading, writing, smoking, reception ana dining-
rooms, 70 bedrooms, many of them with private
sitting-rooms attached, bath-rooms on each floor,
and all other modern conveniences. ihe present
proprietor fully intends to renew the pristine
glories of the historic house.
M'Borney, Wallis & Co. report.-The wool sales of
leason 1893-4 opened on Monday, 8th mat., and continued
so the Thursday of same week. Buyers present exceeded
>n number the attendance of all previous seasons, hpt we
regret to have to report a decided decline in prices as
compared with lastyear. The decline m good_ greasy
fleece may be stated at about id. per lb., for inferio
greasy and bellies, |d. per lb. ; and pieces, id. to id.
Icon red showed a slight decline as comparedwithsumar
period last year. It must be remembered that no really
good wool has yet been catalogued, and it will be inter-
esting to watch how far the American demand will touch
aur superior greasy clips. Although bidding was very
slack on Monday and Tuesday, as the week went on 'nuch
more spirit was thrown into offers, although an
actual increase in prices was_ scarcely effected.
The favourite class of wool is again crossbred.
Among the brands we offered were the following.
NE. conjoined, from Nyngan, CQ over BULLA/wt’
from Tirana JLB from Gilgandra, BILLA BULLA/W £
from Warren, HARLR05T from South REMORA from
Younir MB and Co. from Narandera, AHVV/COOMA from
Dooma’ HO and C from Forbes, CH/LACKLAND from
Oowra, GOOX from Wagga, OO from Gooma, BW/6 from
Bathurst, JP/NEW Engd. from Tamworth. Our London
agents cable the London sales have closed with spirit and
prices are 5 per cent, higher than opening rates for
superior greasy. For scoured and faulty greasy the
market has fallen id. to Id. per lb.


Missing' Friends.
The Bulletin circulates everywhere throughout Austra-
lasia, and will find a Missing Friend more quickly and
effectually than any other publication whatsoever.
Advts. under this head, not exceeding four lines, 2,6
for a single insertion.
TNFORMATION wanted of the Children and Niece (ANN
x GIBSON) of MICHAEL and ELLEN MARTIN, Lis-
inisky, Banagher, Kings Co., Ireland, who emigrated to
Moreton Bay in 1555. Enquired for by their Aunt, in
Ireland, Mrs. ANNIE FRIEND, o/o. Mr. J. D. O’S. Quaid,
B. Mountoastie & Sons, Brisbane, Queensland.
QHOULD this reach the eye of WILLIAM JOYCE, last
heard of in Charters Towers, Queensland, in Sept.,
1893, write to your brother Edward,
11 GANG,
Q.C. Railway, Rockhampton.
TA/’ILLIAM COTTER, who was at Weddin Mountains
' v Rush, and afterwards at the Cape River and Hodg-
kinson, N.Q. Wanted, his address. “8.8.," Bulletin
office.
Barrington^
—AND—
SLIT <3.S,
171 .PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
tonnissios agexts only,
Are prepared to Execute Commissions on tb';
following events:
CAULFIELD & MELBOURNE CUPS
<l2OO to 2)
Y.E.G. DERBY & CUP
(200 to 1>
STRAIGHT-OUT PRICES OBTAINED
ON
Caulfield Cup,
ALSO
MELBOURNE CUP .
Note the Address:
171 PITT STREET,
TELEPHONE 1158.] SYDNEY.
THE WATERBURY WATCH
CAN BE REPAIRED MORE CHEAPLY
THAN ANY OTHER WATCH IN THE
WORLD. HEAD OFFICE FOR AUS-
TRALASIA : 54 MARGARET-STREET,
SYDNEY. HEAD OFFICE FOR VIC-
TORIA : 29 WILLIAM-STREET, MEL-
BOURNE. SEND FOR NEW ILLUS-
TRATED PRICE-LIST.
JJERBS AND HERBAL REMEDIES
—FOR—
ASTHMA, RHEUMATISM. FILES
and Female Ailments.
Guaranteed Cures. Forwarded by Parcel Post to any
place. Ladies and Gentlemen consult free.
J~. W. CASE,
Medical Herbalist,
103 WICKHAM STREET, BRISBANE.
DICKINSON’S
er- 2 6
CHAItTEIiS TOWERS.
CAULFIELD CUP.—October 20th. 10,000 at 2 6
MELBOURNE CUP. —November 6th. 10,000 at 2 6
Address—*7. G, Enright, Charters Towers.
Bowridge’s Bona Fide 2 6.
George Street, Brisbane.
MELBOURNE CUP FLEMINGTON
25,000 at 2 6 November 6,1894.
SOUTHPORT HANDICAP EAGLE FARM,
5000 at 2 6 Brisbane, Nov. 10, 1894.
'CHARLES WESTBROOK,
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY,
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code: “WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
All events throughout the Colonies. Double and
Straight-out.
Caulfield and Melb iurne Cups. V.R.O. D.rby
and Melbourne Cup,
g
Caulfield Cup. Caulfield, October 20,
1894
25.000 at 2 6
150 Extra Ones 150
25,000 at 1.
100 Extra Ones 100
Melbourne flip. Plemington, November 6, 1894
50,000 at 2 6.
290 Extra Ones 290
50,000 at 1.
140 Extra Ones 140
Melbourne Cup.
ALL PttIZHS.
50.000 at 5
NO BLANKS.
Every Subscriber gets a Prize. Particulars on application.
Address “STAR,” care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE, Q'land.
H. Oxenliam,
255 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Caulfield Cup
Y.R.C. Derby
Melbourne Cup.
EITHER
Straight Out,
—OR—
Double Events,
Country clients will please note that no business
can result unless H. Oxenliam replies before the
event is decided.
All telegrams must be marked “Reply paid”
o ensure reply by telegram.
Telephone, No. 929.
H. OXEIMHAM,
255 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Charters Towers .
2 6 Leyshon’s Fair and Square 2 6.
Caulfield Cup, Oct. 20th, 10,000 2 6.
Melbourne Cup, Nov. Gth, 20,000 2 6.
Address— GEO. LEYS AON, Tobacconist,
Gill Street, Charters. Towers,
“drink no longer water,
but use a little wine for thy stomach’s sake, and thine
often infirmities.”—(l. Timothy v. 23.)
— at —
LYON’S PALACE HOTEL,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
Between Victoria Bridge and Mel bourne-street
Railway Station.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications insuffi-
ciently stamped. Name and address must
appear on MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted, and in no
case will MS. be returned unless stamps ac-
company.
Andys (Newcastle): You don’t say so
A Victorian; All we can say is, that the N.S.W. Trades
and Labor Store’s balance - sheet is about the most
remarkable document going, and the most incompre-
hensible. T.J.F. (Bourke): “What are we coming
to?’’ We aren’t coming to anything more remarkable
than usual J.G. (St. Helena): Tasmania and Maoriland
are part of the Australasian provinces, not part of Aus-
tralia. Ireland has the larger population Objective;
Not bright enough John C : Will use... Fluffy:
Why do you call an industry which can’t live without
tariff protection “not self-supporting?’’ On the same
basis, a community which can’t live without military pro-
tection isn’t self-supporting. The existence of protected
manufactures has, in nine cases out of ten, made things
cheaper; therefore, why assume that the system which
has made things cheaper is only a temporary device, pre-
paratory to a reversion to the old policy, which made
things dearer? Parnworth : Thanks, but our mean man
is still dead... A.C.0.: (1) Allen, Larkin, O’Brien, Condon
or Shore, and Maguire were the five men convicted at
Manchester for the murder of constable Brett in rescuing
Kelly and Deasy. Maguire was wrongly convicted, and
was set at liberty ; Condon or Shore, an American by
citizenship, if not by birth, escaped death ; Allen, Larkin,
and O’Brien were hanged at Manchester, 23rd Nov., 1867.
(2) Keep on worrying the P.M.G Q.: Lord Roberts, of
Kandahar and Waterford, was born in 1832—don’t know
where else he was born; probably Waterford... X.:
Speaking from memory, negro Frederick Douglas was a
member of Congress; no authority handy S.W.G.: No
Bulletin interest ... T.O. (Har.): Mutilated mimicry
Oversea: Kaffirs do most of the Cape shearing; never
heard of any standard wage R.P.D. : Did it ever strike
you that people get tired of hearing the same sentiment
and metre flung at them more than 14 times in suc-
cession? Maid: Worthless J.J.K.: A joke as big as
a horse when j'ou tell it often stands as high as a grass-
hopper in print. That’s j'our kind .. M.B. : Quite unsuit-
able... H.F.C.: Some used .. J.J.N.: Nothing in that,
anyhow .. G.W.M.: Interest not quite definite enough
D. (Marryatville): Tale very old ; metre jagged; also
your humor consists mostly of “bally!” Welcome
Jack: I iteresting to the onlookers, no doubt Androcles
(Yarraville): IfanewM.L.A. doesn’t throw up his other em-
ployment he is taunted with the “one-man-one-billet” cry.
If he does, he is accused of “ living on the game.” Then
he is probably ejected at next election and has no billet
at all. Better give him a solid assurance that the Parlia-
mentary job is permanent before you ask him to depend
solely upon it .. R. Dup : “Does Prohibition prohibit?”
A companion query : “Is death fatal?” Kino : No
J.M.C. (Brisbane): (1) The Bulletin has long advocated
the State bank and the issue of State notes. (2) This
paper proposed to exchange reconswindled deposits for
3* per cent, debentures partly to reduce the interest
which goes out of the country to English depositors. (3)
To take over all banks by the State and arbitrarily write-
off one-third of present capital would be a glaring fraud.
One reconstructed bank, at all events, has its capital and
most of its reserve intact, so you propose simply to steal
its assets. Others have lost a lot more than one-third of
their capital and all their reserves J. McO. (Walgett):
A poor, battered joke... Poo Bah: Too discursive,
and we don’t care for polyglot paragraphs
F. (Maryboro’, Q.): Interesting, but, unluckily, you can’t
comm in t freely on the “ horrible ugliness ” of any citizen
in the present state of the law .. F.W.K. (Dev,): You
make us feel tired J.R. (Redfern): Weak T.M.
(Walgett): Drunken Dutchman to hand D.: Will use.
....Semicolon; You say a general war is “the only
panacea” because it would find work for the unemployed
in butchering each other, and would kill off the surplus
inhabitants. Well, it wouldn’t kill off the surplus in-
habitants; it would kill as many consumers as it would
producers, and reduce the demand quite as much as the
supply, so that the problem would remain where it was.
Also, it would be cheaper and less brutal to hang the un-
employed at once, instead of mashing them up amid
horrible agonies with guns and bayonets.. E.R. (Red-
fern); Received one poem starting “Can it be so long
since we two parted?” We don’t know, but our private
opinion is that it is a good deal longer Norma: Too
wailful... X.: One verse will do :
SAD.
Dismal Jim,
Full to brim,
Was’t a whim ?
Who gave to him 7
Why not Jim ?
Please send a companion poem about Bill .. .John Smith:
Good yarn W.T.D.: It is awkward; but the cavil is
rather too keen to be effective Maiben Volck: Hashed
“Shaughraun."... Orpington; Every lean and slippered
pantaloon dribbles just such rhymes... C.K.: May do.
. .. Juvenis: Love and hate are two sides of the same
thing. Composition dull and very green Arthur: A
sad, solemn bleat like that of a calf in a well D.8.C.:
Do be quiet Thalaba: Will consider C.E.R.: May
pass .. Vidi: Put it in three verses, get double rhymes,
and straighten metre ; then we’ll see Q.H.H.: Simply
•dull V. 8.: Complexly dull. . E.S.T.: Probably use.
8.E.: Ditto . P.8.H.: Not good enough. Try again.
... Tim Bobbin: Blue eyes, pure soul, brilliant hair—it’s
a good catalogue and a bad poem . ..D.C.: Said already.
P.W.H.: Substance of story printed months ago, as a
paragraph A. J. Cresson: Assays are useless and
deceptive unless every care is taken to secure an average.
It is in sampling that 99 out of 100 mistakes are made.
It is not easy to sample ore for bulk assay at any time. .
Stoker: Spiteful-looking, even if all true C. M. Mander:
“Medical clairvoyants” are mere impostors. Some
so-called clairvoyants are good diagnosers, but their
skill in that regard is due to experience and medical
instinct, not to clairvoyancy at all. .. .Cattermole:
“Clancy ”isin “ A Golden Shanty.” “ The Banjo ” has
often been asked to publish his verses in book-form, but
he is so modest a man that he’ll probably only do so when
he gets a requisition with 1000 signatures J.J.A.: You
wrote it “to relieve the tedium of a long illness.” But,
by Heavens, not the tedium of our long illness. We’ll bet
you we’ll die before you do Rheumatic (Coota.): So
far as we know, cassowary oil isn’t procurable in Sydney.
Perhaps some Queensland bushman could oblige y0u....
Mittagong : “South Africa” unpublishable; the other
subject already speculated upon One of the Dupes:
Write to Street and Paterson, solicitors, Bond-st., Sydney.
David S. (Ad.) : No good J.F.D. (Melb.): Too long
for the interest Anon: It really doesn’t interest any-
body but the long-haired tragedian Brown, ever on the
alert for advt., to read that tragedian Brown aforesaid “ is
a splendid swimmer,” and lately pulled the drowning
mummers out of the water Wurry M. : Afraid the
generalisation is bad. Anyhow, the specific instance is
too horrible—" even for Tub Bulletin.” Taro ; As the
lady is an heiress, she can afford to make matrimonial
experiments. The average woman who comes to her
husband, without money and without direct money-earn-
ing pow'er, is at least to an extent bound by his wishes
and necessities.
Alderman Phillips, London, is a Christian
pawnbroker and preacher. He persuades his cus-
tomers to become teetotallers, and has thus con-
verted 500. Which recalls that one Browning, a
Melb. pawnbroker, the only non-Hebrew pros-
perous man in the trade, was a profoundly reli-
f ious Congregational.
Dear Bulletin, —For many years I have
•rged that terms of imprisonment for offences
against property have been far too severe. But are
we not going too far in the other direction ? On
12th Sept, a N. Sydney magistrate fined a man
40s. or 7 days for stealing a gun. Not long ago a
fortunate individual was fined in Sydney for em-
bezzlement ; while an offender, tried at Bathurst
Sessions in same week, got 18 months for similar
offence. Seemingly, the Sydney Bench considers
it less culpable to steal than to sell liquor on Sun-
day. The community should wake to the fact
that in Sydney it is much cheaper to commit a
fraud than to use an oath or sell a glass of whisky
after hours. May it not fairly be held that a
nation prizes probity which holds dis-
honesty among the least of its offences? — Dio-
genes. -
The Chinese Government has found that
most of its vast supply of war-munitions exists
only on paper, and for want of them it is sending
reinforcements to the front armed with bows and
arrows. This is the tenth century coming bang up
against the nineteenth, and, barring outside inter-
ference, the tenth century should have a bad
time.
The Duke of San Carlos has committed suicide in
Madrid. The Duke was driven to the deed through dis-
tress at his inability to attain moral perfection.
EPITAPH. *
(Upon a recent noble felo-de-se'ed.)
Lies here full low, thro’ bitter jest of fate,
A peer of Spain, self-hurl’d from proudest place;
Who, greatly mad, thrust off his Grace’s state,
To seek in air some vision’d state of grace.
Eugene Y, Debs, President American
Railway Workers’ Union :
We believe in evolutionary revolution. We prefer
agitation to stagnation. As a general thing, lam against
a strike, but when the only alternative to a strike is a
sacrifice of manhood, I prefer a strike. Under the system
of Pullman paternalism it is only a question of time until
he owns j our bodies and has your souls mortgaged. The
same process that makes a Pullman makes a thousand
paupers. A rich man can afford to be honest, a poor man
is compelled to be. Into the hands of the minority has
always been given the keeping of the most sacred prin-
ciples of the world. It was a majority of the ministers
who 35 years ago supported black slavery, and it was
Lincoln who was killed for abolishing it. What w e are
fighting for is not for to-day nor for to-morrow, but for all
time. We are the minority in our beliefs, the majority in
our numbers. It is with us to win. Thirty years ago a
most frightful blot w 7 as placed upon us as a nation when
we could not abolish black slavery without violence and
death, but white slavery is to pass without this bloodshed,
and it is in your hands and mine that it is to be so. The
labor day is coming, the midnight is passing, and the
rays of the morning sun shall soon illume that world in
which conditions between men such as exist now shall
not be possible.
-Re the sendingby Dibbs, asN.S. W. Premier,
of .£l4 worth of free telegrams to assist in the Par-
liamentary candidature of his pal, Willis ; thus
editor Yuck See, of our esteemed Chinese contem-
porary, the Quong Yick Wah Bo (Sydney)
Nasty, but absolutely just.
S.M. Herald, barracking for the release
of Abigail and co. ;
Some of them acted under the influence of a sort of
moral epidemic, which relaxed the ordinary defences of
honesty and good faith, and caused men, who in other
conditions would have held to the straight line of in-
tegrity, to yield as easy prey to the temptations that
filled the air. There were gradations of crime in the
transactions of those days; and in looking back upon
them now it is seen that in some cases there was a
paralysis of the power of distinguishing between right
and wrong, and then a descent from indifference to in-
terests held in charge to positive action by which those
interests were injured or destroyed. There was a fever of
speculation, under the heat of which conscience—even of
men who owned a conscience—was shrivelled up.
When did the Herald draw these subtle distinc-
tions in the case of the wretched clerks, with £2 a
week to keep a family on, who have been sent to
gaol for embezzling a few pounds? When did it
turn Jesuit and print columns of moral casuis-
try in pleading for mercy for the starving work-
men who have stolen food or clothing, and are
now doing penance at Berrima ? Never, so
help The Bulletin ! But when an ex-
Minister of the Crown, whose legs have been
under Government House mahogany, who lived in
luxury in receipt of an ample income—when this
man and others like him callously ruin hundreds
of people who trust in their honesty, then the
Herald arises to point out that the quality of
mercy is not strained, that the hard conditions of
prison life—even when tempered by official
favouritism —are really unsuited to “gentlemen”
so delicately nurtured and possessed of so many
fine feelings, and that it is incumbent on the com-
munity to refrain from punishing its silvertails so
severely, and to reserve the rigours of its law for
the brutal and uninfluential lower classes. Pah !
THE TWO
GENUINE ARTICLES:
CLEMENTS TONIC,
FLETCHER’S PILLS.
IMITATED!
BUT UNRIVALLED
AND UNEQUALLED.
CLEMENTS TONIC is a scientific chemical
food and restores the tissue wasted by the voca-
tions of everyday life, is a prompt and safe remedy
for neuralgia, nervousness, weakness, debility,
liver complaint, dropsy and chronic indigestion.
FLETCHER’S PILLS cure heartburn, back-
ache, headache, liver torpidity, dyspepsia, and all
complaints of the stomach and bowels.
These two remedies have been thoroughly tested
in all the hot countries of the world. They are
sold at a price within the reach of all people.
Evidence is forwarded free on receipt of name and
address that will satisfy the most sceptical as to
their virtues. They are sold everywhere, but
care must be taken that the genuine are obtained
or the money and time are wasted and the disease
made so much the more serious.
LECTURE FOR MEN. ONLY.
Everybody knows that not to trouble to answer
letters is the surest way of acquiring the reputa-
tion of a busy man ; that not to accept invitations
is an infallible way of getting more; that not to
care a jot about the feelings of the rest of the
household is an unfailing means of enforcing uni-
versal deference ; that not to spend a single shil-
ling is robbing one’s-self of the treat of smoking
eight lovely Frossard’s Cavour cigars; that to
buy others is generally paying more for a lower
article; that a milder, less injurious and more
fragrant weed has never been imported ; that to
remember this is putting money in one’s pocket at
the end of the year, and safeguarding one’s health
at the same time.
“ Willy ” Gaunson, who stood for E. Melb.
last election, once went to the poll with a com-
mittee of 300 and got—3o odd votes.
That brightest of Australian books, “ A
Golden Shanty,” is now in its second edition, and
will be posted to any Australasian address for
Is. 3d. ; foreign, Is. 6d. It includes some of the
best and most characteristic prose and verse that
has ever appeared in The Bulletin —Banjo’s
“ Old Pardon ” and “ Olancy,” Lawson’s “Paces
in the Street,” Farrell’s “Last Bullet,” several of
Daley’s choicest poems, and tales and sketches by
Dyson, Lawson, Titus Salt, and other popular
Bulletin writers. Everybody should own a
copy.
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.
Sir John Lnbbook says that “ the love of sport
is engraven in the English character.” And in
the Australian character, too, we might add. In
the world of sport, British or Australian, there is
no more popular pastime than cricket. An Ori-
ental traveller was watching a game of cricket in
the old country one day. Upon hearing that
many of the players were rich men, he expressed
his surprise, and asked why they did not pay some
poor people to do the work for them. The
moral is obvious. Representative sportsmen
in Australia, as elsewhere, have not been slow
to acknowledge the medicinal virtues of St.
Jacobs oil, which is now universally recognised
as the standard remedy for pain. It posses-
ses marvellous efficacy in curing stiffness of
the muscles and joints, sprains, strains, swel-
lings, bruises, rheumatism, lumbago and other
bodily ailments peculiar to athletes. It has
triumphed over all its rivals, and is the favorite
embrocation among cricketers, oarsmen, sprinters,
harriers, footballers, cyclists, &c. St. Jacobs oil
is the best pain-ourer in existence. It has won
twelve gold medals at the world’s exhibitions, and
is recommended and endorsed by eminent chemists
and physicians.


Herr Rassmussen, 547 George Street, Sydney.
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST AND GOLD MEDALIST.
HOW TO CUREJTHE .NERVES.
ALPALINE VITALITY FILLS.
(REGISTERED).
„ Rassmdssen’s wonderful Herbal Remedies are recognised everywhere as the only real cure
for those terrible complaints kaown ™ ervousness and I)ebility>
from Early Follies, Overwork, or Inherited Nervous Weakness, manifesting itself in the
resulting 1 pfcoms ; _gp ec k s before the eyes, giddiness, want of vigor, fullness after meals, back-
following YD *. - ' — 1 — — n J
following J i blushing, want of ambition, exhaustion, poor memory, easily excited, irritable, tired
ache, neaa » , V brain, weak nerves and spine. Such sufferers should lose no time in oall-
u mrtrninfir confused brain, weak nerves and spine,
* sending g for Herr Rassmussen’s celebrated Nerve Cure, namely, the
ing or
A If aline Vitality Pills,
r«prmanentlv cure the above symptoms. They have been the means of restoring thou-
as they Strength and Vigour. Special Powerful Course, 43s. 6d. ; Ordinary Course, 23s. Gd.;
q]ler Boxes, 2g> and 6s . posted unobserved. Varicocele Powders, 6s. per packet.
THOSE ABOUT TO MARRY,
ff from any of the above symptoms, should at once call on, or send to, Herr Rassmussen
« h0 nf L Alfal ne Vitality Pills, so as to enable them to commence their new life in a perfect
for ft course oi uio
state of health. Posted Duty Free and Unobserved.
A Valuable and Useful Book sent Free
A r.Wrved anywhere on application. This book gives a plain description of the working of the
and uno - n HUMAN BODY, and the principal diseases and affections they are subject to,
Varl °R 9 as the complete treatment for the cure and prevention of same, together with directions as to
as wen a many other useful hints, which have saved many from much suffering.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD.
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
(REGISTERED).
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass and excel all other known and adverfciKed
remedies for the purification of the blood. It is not an ordinary remedy, but a Genuine Registered
KSSt Stood a TEN YEARS’ TEST before the public id wRich
is in demand by blood sufferers throughout the whole civilised world. It is piuely ind c >n
tains, therefore, no mercury, and will completely and permanently cure the most fearful and unhappy
Blood and Skin Diseases.
It is recommended by the Faculty, and praised by those who have tried it, as a never-fading
Blood Purifier and Blood Tonic.
It has no equal, it operates upon every drop of the blood, and does not permit the slightest particle
of impurity to remain in the system.
THOSE ABOUT TO MARRY,
and who desire to have any possible taint removed from their blood, should take a course of the Lock
Pills, which can only benefit the whole system. This remedy removes any discharges, strictures
sores blotches, pimples and old-standing blood complications, certainly and Globules G
Powerful Course, 43/6; Ordinary Course, 23/6.; Smaller Boxes, 12/- and fa/-, posted. Lock Globules, 6/
Posted Duty Free and Unobserved.
4 Valuable and Useful Book sent Free
and unobserved, which contains, besides a lot of useful medical information, copies of a
of Important Testimonials, opinions of almost the whole Australian press, a list R 1 ,
description of all Herr Rassmussen’s Alfalme Remedies, and a sketch of RaMmussen «
interesting life and work, with illustrations of some of his principal Gold Medals and Diplomas,
awarded at exhibitions, and other matter of interest.
Testimonials.
SWORN TESTIMONY.
ĝ
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I THOS MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 547 George-street, Sydney, in the Colony of
New South Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome affection of the Nerves, which
affected me so much that I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several doctors
and many remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr
Rassmussen’s Purely Herbal “Alfaline
Vitality Pills,” which I hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare Completely Cured Me with-
in a few weeks, and although this is over five
years ago I have remained well ever since.
The Alfaline Pills also cured my wife, and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this 23rd
day of November, 1891, before me.
S. T. Whiddon, J.P.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Com-
missioner of the Supreme Court of New South
Wales and Victoria.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative
of the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose
testimony carries special weight, writes thus :
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, -I think it my duty to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Vitality Pills
acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by
their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness
and Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform
you that a course of your Alfaline Pills com-
pletely cured me of a severe case of biliousness,
wind and nervousness. I may also mention
that several of my friends to whom I have
recommended your remedies have derived great
benefit from them; therefore, I consider you
are deserving of success, which I do most
heartily wish you.—Yours gratefully,
A. HARRIS, J.P.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having
been a sufferer from General Debility of the
Nervous System for over seven years, and
having tried without success several of the
leading doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne,
I was advised to try your Alfaline Remedies.
I am thankful I did so, for after a few courses
of the Alfaline Remedies I am now completely
cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I
was. Thanking you for your courtesy and
the uniform patience with which you have
treated me, allow me to say that you can
make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours, CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness: John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker, Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
o
S 47
J 47
i PILL ARCADE
or
SYDNEY
SYDNEY
HerrRASSMUSSENS
PILL PALACE
vU^'^
LOCK
VITALITY
PILLS
fOR
cum pi
r
pin
BLOOD
THE
NERVES
Pius
DISEAS
v forthe a
"i
ebratedißesislvcd ALFAII NE PILLS
r°" BLOOD&NERVE DISEASES IS
IGnnD ionzj
miiiTSi
V- HI
PREPARED FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
* HERR RASSMUSSCN •
SOLO HERE IN BOTTLES at 1/ 2/?. 22ft 4
BTil1li'INg"ll« , -lil^-/'*t£ 1 il^- / '*t£ bookswn»»■*'
ALFALINE
RHEUMATIC
PULS
HAIR
AIFAUHE
COMPLEXION
KAUIIfIM
Mnuiit/A
ALFAUNE
HVUIKIMK
PILLS
SOX 0/iUXIXUN
• /Ji/VWA.A.A'A./M a , -7-* A, At'l v A vAj A. A,/**
&
m
otcmk
mm
A
i'll-IUIU
Opinions of tlie Press
FROM ALL THE COLONIES
Proving Herr Jtassmussen’s Remedies Genuine.
“Herr Rassmussen’s (the celebrated Danish Herbalist) well-known Herbal
Remedies have been the means of performing many great cures during the
last few years, as his numerous testimonials will prove. —The Bulletin,
Sydney. , _
“Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”—Launceston Daily Tele-
graph, Tasmania.
Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as
a Medical Herbalist holds the highest place
in the colonies, and enjoys the confidence of
many leading people of New South Wales,
Victoria and Queensland.” — Cooktown
Courier, Q.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high re-
putation for his skill in botanical treatment of
disease.”— Evening Journal, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures excel-
lent Blood and Nerve Remedies.” — New
Zealand Times, Wellington.
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some
highly complimentary testimonials, certifying
to important cures effected by his remedies.”
—Evening News, Sydney.
“Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well-known
to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”—Sydney
Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen’s Press notices agree as
to the skill he possesses as an herbalist, and
the bona tides of his testimonials appears to
be well-established. ” — S.A.RegIster, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, the well-known Danish
herbalist and botanist, has for the last
10 years carried on a very extensive herbal
medicine manufacturing business in all the
eastern colonies, principally bringing into use
many Australian medical plants.”— West
Australian, Perth.
“Herr Rassmussen is a gentleman who
has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name
has become known throughout New South
Wales and Australia.”— Australian Star,
Sydney.
Severe Nervousness Cured.
Stamp Office, G.P.O., Sydney,
To Herr Rassmussen. Sept, 1, 1892.
Dear Sir, —I am pleased to inform you that
your Alfaline Vitality Pills completely cured
me of a serious case of nervousness of 20 years”
standing.—Yours gratefully, H. STACK.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows::
Ithago-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
To Herr Rassmussen. Sept. 20, 1892.
Dear Sir, —I am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured!
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and)
that, although I am now over 70 years of ago,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you. —Yours verv truly,
N. LARSEN.
Herr RASSMUSSEN has now established Branches in every colony and every country
throughout the world for the Sale of his wonderful Blood and Nerve Herbal Remedies.
LIST OF THE ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
Herr Kassmusscn’s “ Natural Doctor,” posted free, iu plain cover. Is.
(Registered).
Alfaline Vitality Pills,
Cures all Nervous Affections.
Special Powerful Course, 43/6; Ordinary Course, 23/6.
Smaller Boxes, 12/- and 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders,
Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Female Restorer Pills,
__ Boxes, 43/6, 23/6, 12/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastilles,
Excellent for Colds, Coughs, and Influenza,
. Boxes posted, 1/6. _
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil,
Superior to all others, 1/6 posted.
Boxes, 1/- and 2/-'
Alfaline Ointment,
Alfaline Foot Powder,
Porous Plasters,
Packets, 6/-
IA.
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, See., See.
Alfaline Lock Fills,
Cures all Blood Affections.
Special Powerful Course, 43/6 ; Ordinary Course, 23/6.
Smaller Boxes, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills,
Special course, 43/6 ; ordinary course, 23/6.
Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-, and 3/-,
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills,
Boxes, posted, 1/6, 8/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills,
Boxes, 23/6, 12/-, 6/-, and 3/-.
Alfaline Universal Pills, For the Blood & Nerves.
Boxes, 43/6, 23/6, 12/- and 6/-
Alialiue Hair Restorer and Beautifier,
Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier,
Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder,
Improves the figure and enlarges the Bust.
Boxes, 6/-
IMPORTANT-
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S Business
being purely a Proprietary
Remedy Business, nothing whatever is charged to anyone
but the advertised price for the Remedies, which is also
printed upon each box.
WARNING.
Herr Rassmussen, the Original and Only Danish Herbalist
in Australia, has No Branch at Bendigo, Vic.,
and Victorian patrons are specially requested to notice
that Herr Rassmussen has no connection whatever with
any person trading under a similar name in Bendigo,
Vic., and that no person is authorised to sell his Genuine
Remedies at Bendigo. His only Victorian Branch is 150
Bourke-st., Melbourne, and his Head Depot is 547 George-
st., Sydney. Patrons should always obtain the remedies
direct from his own establishments, as advertised below.
All Herb RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned below. Pamphlet sent free.
Correspondence held Strictly Confidential, and
Remedies and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover.
Any advice desired sent tree. These Celebrated and Regis-
tered Herbal Remedies have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers,
(gif" Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to
HANS RASSMUSSEN.
Whether you send to his Head Office or to his Branches,
register all letters containing money.
Intercolonial Branches
Victoria; 150 Bourke-st., Melbourne
Queensland; 160 Queen-st., Brisbane
154 Eundle-st-, Adelaide
N.Z.; 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A. : Central Buildings, corner of
Hay & Williams Streets, Perth
INTERCOLONIAL LETTERS and ORDERS may, if patrons desire it, be addressed to any oi the above
branohes to save delay.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO Herb RASSMD88KN, o/o any of his Intercolonial Branches,
or, if you prefer it, to his
Head. Office & Laboratory:
547 George Street, Sydney
Or simply address your letters thusPROPRIETOR, Box 208, GENERAL POST OFFICE. SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.


The Wild-Cat Column.
The amount lent on private mortgages in Maori-
fand is reported by Treasurer Ward to be £29.606,579-
mostly English money. If the Advances to Settlers Bill
hadnot been mutilated past all recognition by the Coun-
cil, it was hoped that the operations of the Government
Loan Department would have reduced the average
interest all round by 2 per cent. —a saving to the province
of £592,130 per annum. As an answer to those critics who
declare that such an office under Government control
must necessarily make heavy losses, it is pointed out that
the State Insurance Department, with £518,000 invested
in mortgages, has only lost £IOOO by debts since the
beginning of its career 1 and the Public Trust Office, with
£450,000 in mortgages, has only lost £I9OO ! 1 What con-
cern of similar magnitude ever showed anything like
these results under private management in equally bad
times?
* « • •
Now that the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank has reduced its interest rates to 3 per cent., and the
oanks in Victoria and S.A. have lowered their rates for
annual deposits to the same figure, the reason why G. H.
Reid sent to England a few weeks ago to float his 34 per
cent, loan is less apparent than ever. If the banks can
get money in Australia at 3 per cent, it must be a truly
dreadful Government which can’t get it at 34.
• * • •
It is now openly asserted in some quarters that
the Colonial Bank of Maoriland will have to make a call.
The proposal to amalgamate with the B.N.Z. shook
public confidence considerably, and a vague impression
grew up that a bank which was willing to enter into
partnership with so consistently unlucky an institution
must be in a tight place. Then the collapse of the nego-
tiations accentuated the idea, and without any tangible
evidence whatever the public has acquired a hazy sus-
picion respecting the Colonial. It takes very little to
create suspicion in private banking circles. The com-
munity has learned by hard experience that many
directors are brilliant liars, and that most auditors merely
certify, in a mechanical fashion, that the accounts are
correct “according to the books,” and don’t even pro-
fess to know whether the books are unutterably incorrect
or not. In this chronic state of uncertainty a mere
breath of unfounded suspicion may cause all kinds of
trouble. An independent State audit is the only evidence
which will absolutely convince the public of the sound-
ness of anything.
* * • *
The South British Insurance Cos., of Maoriland,
has made £30,000 clear profit for the year, and after pay-
ing 12J per cent, div., equal to £BO7B, it adds £20,000 to
reserve and carries a balance forward. Maoriland has
four local fire-insurance companies, the South British,
New Zealand, National and Standard, and they are so
well-supported by the inhabitants, who patriotically avoid
foreign institutions as much as possible, that these four
do far more business than all the local offices of Australia
and Tasmania combined. The biggest Australian office—
the Vi toria—only manages to show a slightly larger
premium income than the Standard—the smallest Maori-
land co. This is a simple and practical way of keeping
the profits of the business in the country. Why don’t
the unpatriotic Australians go and do likewise?
♦ * * *
The Vic. and S.A. banks have reduced their
rates to 1J per cent, per annum for deposits fixed for six
months, and 3 per cent, for deposits fixed for 12 months.
If this rate can be maintained foranylengthoftime.it
will make existence a hell for the weaker among the re-
constructed banks. The deposits of the big solid institu-
tions are running out daily, and in all probability a big
proportion of them will be renewed at the reduced rate.
Therefore, these banks, underpressure of competition, can
do business on lower terms and still earn profits. Mean-
while, the weaker of the “ reconstructs," which dare not
release theirdeposits lest they should be withdrawn bodily,
must keep on paying 4§ per cent, on the great bulk of
their money ; which means that they must either trade at
the same rates as their rivals and give up all hope of
earning profits, or that they must be content to take
hazardous business which the more reputable institutions
refuse. By this time the very name of H. Gyles Turner
who invented the incubus of the 4J per cent, reconstruc-
tion, should be a thing of loathing among bankers.
• • ♦ »
The Royal Bank of Australia, although it
toddled safely through the 1893 crisis, is apparently not
in a very good way. The profits for the past half-year are
only £2B74—about £4OO less than those of the previous
six months. This means that the Royal is still earning
just 2 par cent, per annum on its little capital of £300,000.
There is no div.—it is now nearly two years since’ the
Royal paid a div. Certain losses, which were alluded to
at last meeting, are still waiting to be dealt with. The
Royal has no reserve-fund to write-off, and in the present
state of Vic. law it is impossible to write-off capital with-
out an expensive process of reconstruction, therefore the
directors are waiting until a bill is passed to facilitate the
losing of capital. When this is done, and the bad debts
are finally disposed of, the board “looks forward with
confidence to a resumption of divs." If said divs. are to
be resumed, on even a humble 4 per cent, basis, it means
that the Royal must write-off half its capita], and with
only £150,000 remaining it won’t be much of a bank.
From the little that can he gathered concerning its posi-
tion it seems that £150,000 may easily be needed to put
things straight. The Royal ought either to wind up, or
amalgamate, or else call up more capital and try to
become a serious institution. At present its 40s. shares
stand at 7s. 6d., which is the only really serious thing
about it.
• • • *
Another drop in the ever-falling shares (£5 ss.
paid up) of the Bank of New Zealand brings the selling
quotation in Sydney down to 10s., “ n«T buyers."
• * * *
The City of Melbourne bank—an institution
which never did much local business and was mainly a
receptacle for British deposits—publishes a balance-sheet
almost unique in its utter misery. The previous half-
year showed a net profit of £5647; this half pans out
exactly £717 13s. 4d. The ordinary shareholders get
nothing, and have no reasonable prospect of getting any-
thing, but a div. of 5 per cent, is paid on preference
capital which absorbs £Bl6, and thus leaves the bank £IOO
to the bad as the result of a half-year’s toil. The
profit, reckoned on the paid-up capital of £630,000,
is equal to a trifle less than five shillings per cent!
per annum, and from this the shareholders may estimate!
in a vague sort of way, how much of the capital
and deposits has been invested in dead securities
which return no interest. Then they may further
estimate how many of these investments, which re-
. turn no interest, are likely to return any principal. Most
of the original reserve-fund of over £400,000 was
long since written-off to meet losses, and now the last
£50,000 of the reserve is transferred to suspense account
to meet more “depreciation.” Taking it in all its
aspects, the City of Melbourne balance-sheet is the
saddest document which any allegedly legitimate bank has
ever issued in Australia within The Bulletin’s recol-
lection, and it suggests the urgent need for an independent
investigation. Even the “bad times” don’t account at
all adequately for the dreadful falling-away.
• * • •
The Melb. Herald Standard amalgamation
would never have eventuated had not the Herald crowd
known that the Leader was to be reduced to 3d. as a rival
to the Herald’s weekly print. The Herald’s profits
(mainly derived from their weekly paper) tempted the
Standard’s bankers to make a sacrifice. They accept a
big proportion of the purchase-money in paid-up shares
In the Herald, and guarantee that the Standard’s plant,
copyrights, &c., shall not be used in Victoria for three
years. Those beat able to judge say that the Standard’s
very cute bankers have not made a good deal.
• * * •
The revelations last week in Vie. Insolvency
Court, when poor wretches without a copper had to face
the music through accepting transfer of Finance Cos.
shares from boom-magnates, make the thousands of little
men squirm who incurred liabilities on their houses to
building societies, altogether out of proportion to the
value of those houses. The “ little man ” has to keep on
paying half his earnings to save a house bought at three
times its value, while he sees rich men get out altogether.
Enough to make any poor devil a rogue.
* ♦ • •
An extraordinary common-law decision by the
N.S.W. Chief Justice. The proprietors of a country
pvp"r got a verdict in the local Court against a Sydney
publican for advertising. Defendant applied for a pro-
liibition on the ground that the Parkes Bench had no
Jurisdiction, as the advt. contract was signed in Sydney,
barley, C.J., verdicted for appellant. Considering that
40 per cent, of the advts. in the provincial press come
from metropolitan houses, and the contracts are neces-
sarily signed in Sydney, country newspaper proprietaries
must in future prosecute debtors in metropolitan Courts.
This decision will have a wide revolutionary application.
Country storekeepers sign contracts with commercial
travellers in country towns, and merchants, sueing for
recovery from such storekeepers, must proceed in the
towns where the contracts were signed. This will be a
fine how-d’ye-do. _ The C.J.’s dictum upsets all previous
opinion and practice in commercial circles.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
The stocks of two important Melb. hardware
houses are in the market, and that of another one is
expected to be shortly. Result, complete disorganisation
in the trade generally. Unless a big hardware trust (and
it is mooted) be formed to buy up these stocks, at least
three other hardware houses may eventually go to the
• * * *
Is it to be wondered at that the many Melb.
money-lenders who had to compromise during the last
years are now running over one another for “piz-
nesh ’’! Specimen loan : A borrowed £3O nine months
ago on fair security, and gave a bill at three months for
£47 10s. Paid off £l7 10s., renewed for a further three
months by giving a bill for balance owing (£3O) for £SO.
When that fell due, paid off £lO and renewed the £4O by
giving a bill for £65. Paid off £25 for the previous three
months, and had to give a bill for £7O. Result: £3O
for twelve months costs out of pocket in good red gold,
£52 10s., and the lender holds a bill with security attached
for £7O. If the latter is met, there is £122 10s. for a
twelve months’ loan of £3O. If it isn’t met, there’s only
75 per cent, clear per annum.
♦ * * •
Canvass and classify the hard-mouthed Sabba-
tarians. Call for and analyse their balance-sheets. How
many of them are money-lenders who live on interest ?
Quite 50 per cent. Yet “interest” is a “servant" whom
they compel to work seven days and seven nights every
week. How would they attitudinise towards a Bill to
compel interest to cease from accruing between every
6 p.m. and 6 a.m., and during the 24 hours of every
Sawbath ? They’d yell robbery and insist on abolishing
all Sunday-observance laws.
* * * •
A Burrawang (N.S.W.) non-unionist shearer,
one of the P.U.’s trial importations, knelt down before a
standing sheep, and, commencing at the stern, shore off
the wool along the spine in a narrow, long strip, after
which he mapped out parallels and diagonals, with the
remark—“ Shearing’s easy enough, when you know how :
any dashed fool can do it.”
♦ • • •
Said a wily old pastoralist the other day :
“The squatters have by no means got the best of it in the
shearers’ strike. You wait till the wool gets to market
and see what price it w r ill fetch in its hacked and slashed
condition. Hardly any free pastoralists shear ‘ scab ’ —
it’s only the bank mortgagees who do that.”
* * * *
John Robb’s estate is only expected to go Is.
9d. in the £ ; though assets are £448,000 and liabilities
but £232,000 more. It is a sufficient explanation to say
that many of the assets are in Melbourne.
♦ » • *
. Behind the present innocent-looking Sydney
city-railway agitation lurks a big land-resumption job.
♦ • ♦ ♦
A coming sensation is a law-suit in which a big
foreign brandy-firm sues, for a colossal sum in damages,
an Australian house with which it has long done business.
The case should be one of the most interesting in Austra-
lian legal history.
♦ ♦ * •
Dear Bulletin, —Re your par. about sewing-
machines, the profits look well on paper, but, take my
word for it, if the manufacturers cleared £1 on each
machine sold they would be well satisfied. The cost,
landed in Melb., is about £4, and it takes about £5 on an
average to sell each machine. A canvasser who makes
one good sale per week is considered a fair salesman ; and
his wages would be close on £3, including his commission
on sales and collections ; to this add rents, freight, horse
and waggon expenses, clerks, &0., and there is not so
much in it after all. Anyhow, if there is, why do so many
machine firms “ go bung? ’—Yours truly, O.E.H.
» * * *
Five years ago Pat. M'Kenna, of Orange
(N.S.W.), whose will was recently probated at £36,000,
was understood to be worth £IOO,OOO, chiefly invested
,in mortgages on farm lands. The reduced value of such
jands is the alleged cause of the probate being in five
instead of six figures. Pat. used to boast that the only
bad investment he ever made was the purchase of 200
shares in Hudson Bros., Ltd.
* * * *
Japanese competition in the North Australian
pearl-shelling business has driven half the white labor out
in the last two years. White ownership of shelling vessels
is following suit. The whites are commencing to agitate
that no licences to use shelling craft be issued to others
than Europeans.
* • • *
James Service doesn’t believe in the kind of
Credit Foncier that would benefit only the better kind of
producer. It would be interesting to hear the opinion of
Service, as Commercial Bank chairman, upon the policy
of lending millions of borrowed money to the better rkw
of non-producers.
* * * *
The trustee in a very small insolvent estate
filed his accounts in Melbourne the other day. Assets,
£6B ; expenses as follows:—Assignee's costs, £9; getting
a trustee appointed, £5 ; other law costs, £2 10s.; filing
schedule, £ls ; man in possession, £ll 10s.; taking stock,
£2 25.; advertisements, messengers, &0., £7 ; auctioneers’
expenses, £2O ; trustee’s expenses, £l4. Consequently it
cost £B6 2s. to collect £6B, and a saving of £lB 2s. would
have been effected by letting the whole matter slide.
♦ * * *
It is being said in Victoria that a leading
daily is now really owned by a syndicate of four London
and two Melb. proprietors.
* ♦ ♦ *
Reported that at one Australian irrigation
settlement no settler has a balance over ss. in the local
bank. One result of trying to make interest on land
which, before any return is obtained, costs £7O per acre
to put in order.
» * * ♦
Ex-Speaker Bent’s “ explanation,” in Melb,
Supreme Court, of how he came to transfer £40,000 of
shares liability to an illiterate day-labourer was very
characteristic. Bent originally held 37,000 shares in the
Australian City and Suburban Investment Cos. He handed
36,000 (retaining 1000 for himself) over to the Mercantile
Finance Cos., who “ took them together with other
shares.” Then it was agreed that he should “hand over
certain Rosstown Junction shares and be released from
everything. He did not know who prepared the deed of
release. . . He believed that some time after the agree-
ment something was said about mortgages on other
shares. He was only to give the Mercantile Cos. £40,000
worth of Rosstown Junctions. He obtained a release
from the company, but he did not know' where the
original was, nor did he know w'hen he first saw the release
or a copy. He thought no other shares were deposited
by him with the company as mortgages, but he knew now,
from a document recently shown him, that the Aus. City
and Sub. shares were so deposited. He was chairman
of A.O. and S. Cos., and supposed he was a member i
of it at the time the board passed the transfer
of shares from him to M’Mahon (the labourer
aforesaid). Just before he transferred to M’Mahon,
he discovered the word ‘ mortgagees ’ in his deed, ,
and he asked the Mercantile Finance Cos. to take ■
over the 36,000 in their own name. They refused. He
(the chairman) was not apprehensive of any calls being
made on the shares. (A call was made on the day he
shitted them on to M’Mahon.) He had given bills in res-
pect of calls on these shares. He wanted to get rid of the
lianility by transferring to a man of straw, who had abso-
lutely nothing. He retained 1000 shares in order that he
might remain on the board. He thought it was very
honest to get the transfer passed, in order to help the
Mercantile Cos., because the two companies were practi-
cally the same.” Of this very contradictory and
impudent narrative, the Judge said: “It could not
be seriously hoped that anybody would believe Mr.
Bent’s statement that he did not think there was any
legal liability. That was manifestly absurd. The only
question was, that he might have thought that the legal |
liability which did exist might not have ill consequences |
for the persons who took transfers of the shares.” Those
shares being now transferred back again to the original
holder, The Bulletin would like to know whether the
Judge thinks they will have any ill consequences for the
ex-Speaker of Victoria?
* * • •
Israelite Bay, where the Rodondo was wrecked,
it, in the opinion of many, the natural port of Kurnalpi
and all the eastern diggings of Westralia. Its reefs and
shoals are not yet charted, but there are one or two
navigators who know it well enough. The Rodondo's
I experience will make it unpopular at first, perhaps, but
there is a good thing waiting for any s.s. 00. that makes it
a regular port of call. One Kurnalpi man, who believes
in Israelite Bay, was in Melb. trying to arrange for the
shipment of a mob of cattle when the Rodondo news
came, and shipowners cooled down.
• * • ♦
A certain firm lately got judgment against a
debtor, and after going to execution (for £l7) the result
was nulla bona. The debtor wrote to his creditor that,
although extreme measures had been taken against him
he would, if things prospered with him, eventually square
up. He further stated that some friends were going to
give him another start by buying about £2O worth of
material, and that next week he would be in town. The
following week he saw his creditor and eventually bought
about £ls worth of goods for spot cash. The goods were
forwarded to their owner, but immediately afterwards
the bailiff reappeared upon the scene. No nulla bona
this time. The tip had been forwarded on. Smart—but
Lazarus is often a better fellow than Dives.
* * * *
A Mildura man doesn’t say he’s between the
devil and the deep sea : he says he’s between the Chaffeys
and the Irrigation Cos.
* • • «
Melb. gas shares continue to mount, under
impulse from the English buyers.
♦ * • *
People who buy good gold at .£3 an ounce must
have a pretty shrewd idea that the seller did not find it.
•* * •
The Sydney telephone charge, the depart-
ment finding wire and instrument, is £l2 per annum;
the M.L. public get equal accommodation for £5, the
Victorian for £8 per annum.
* * • ♦
The north-western bank which carefully hugs
bonded certificates for a very large number of imported
cigars, on which it has advanced, say, £2OOO, will some
day be disgusted to find that, although the sample box
that was tried was undoubtedly A 1 stuff, the rest have
been specially manufactured in Yarmany, or thereabouts,
for bank-overdraft purposes, and won’t fetch the amount
that will have to be paid to get ’em out of bond (about
£200). The brand, by the way, should be named “El
Banco Escompto," “ Fabrioante Especiales,” “Calidad”
—only found out when the borrower’s paper is “Maduro."
•* * *
There appears to be a split in the Reid Cabinet
over the bank-conviots’-release question. Reid and Cos.
have apparently been letting off the small fry as an
experiment—playing, as it were, “just a bar or two of
I Boyne Water,’ " to see whether the public can “ shtand
*• ♦ *
Cabled that James M‘Ewan and 00. announce
their loss on the year’s trading as £20,800.
** • •
It is no easy matter to convict a man of gold-
stealing. Many people in Australia have stolen gold, but
few have suffered for it. The man charged with receiving
stolen gold from Lucknow mines was either a fool or
couldn’t stand the strain of conscience. The jury dis-
agreed, whereupon accused, to the wonder of his counsel
and friends, announced that he had stolen the gold.
He got off with 12 months. The surprise was the
Judge’s order allowing the dealer to keep the gold sold to
him. Theft of gold would he reduced if gold-dealing were
prohibited, save in small places were there are no banks.
** * *
Judgment in the N. Londonderry case has been
given in favour of Lyons, the jumper, on the ground that
there was no appeal from the Warden’s Court unless a
case was stated by the Warden, which was not done in
this case. Exactly. It is hardly ever done in any case.
Warden Pinnerty bosses the show by a literal interpreta-
tion of the Act, which says, “ A Warden may state a case
for the Supreme Court.” Already Huxley has given
notice of appeal, and finality in this case is likely to be
reached at the Privy Council—if the owners can get
there. This is very doubtful under the outrageous W.A.
mining law, by which principles involving perhaps millions
of pounds and tens of thousands of people in and out of the
province are irrevocably fixed and defined by a man who
has no training in law.
•* * •
The Londonderry has saved Coolgardie from an
almighty slump ; but for it the situation would be most
serious. It revived dying syndicates, created new ones,
and stayed the hand of a departing London boom. Mines
that were about to be offered in London four months ago
and kept back because of the palpable hopelessness of
the situation, have emerged and floated in the new boom,
and when Lord Fingal arrives next week in London with
Big Ben and others in tow anew sensation may be ex-
pected. And, depend upon it, the supply of mines will
quite equal the demand.
*♦ * *
One hitch which occurred in the proposed sale
of the Wealth of Nations (for £140,000) has been fixed up.
It is really time people heard something more about the
reef at the 40fc. level. If “as rich as ever” the public
had better prepare for a surprise of 5000 or 6000 oz. from,
say, one ton of Wealth of Nations specimens. That
would be a great shock and save the Coolgardie news-
paper men much satire.
•* * *
A Coolgardie news correspondent says many
unfavorable reports are about concerning the Wealth of
Nations mine, but they all lack solid basis. “Solid
basis" is good. From private letters just to hand,
written by level-headed men of experience who have seen
Dunn’s find, The Bulletin concludes, in the absence of
evidence to the contrary, that the Wealth of Nations
isn’t a swan, but only a dabohick.
*• * «
Bayley’s South proposes enlarging capital from
£40,000 to £120,000, by giving each shareholder three to
one, and opening, of course, a London register. It
explains the recent jump in the shares from 40s. to 60s.
This, for a mine that never had a crushing, is a big thing
for somebody.
•♦ • •
At last a second battery is running at Oool-
gardie—that of Lake View and Boulder East, near
Hannan’s. Several batteries, and plenty water to run
them, would kill more mines on Coolgardie than anything
else the writer knows of.
*• • »
A whole week has passed without any announce-
ment that rich gold has been struck in the bottom of
Bayley’s. Let this not happen again.
** » *
At the Mainland mine, Murchison, 7 tons stone
have yielded 2980 z. gold. “ Jin)my ” Thomson, erstwhile
of Melb. Standard, now proprietor of Murchison Miner,
is delighted with the field’s prospects. “1 am not going
to boom it,” he writes. “ It needs no booming—only the
publication of battery-results.”
•♦ ♦ «
In a recent mining dispute which came before
the Westralian Executive Council, Attorney-General Burt
had to advise the Government whilst his firm was acting
as solicitors for one of the parties in the dispute. A case
almost parallel in its delicacy is that of a trustee of
N.S.W. National Art Gallery who has to take part in
deciding whether the work of a pupil of his shall or shall:
not be purchased by the Gallery.
♦* * *
The modest Albert Calvert has been very suc-
cessful re Westralian gold affairs, and, says The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, now has a fine suite of rooms
in Old Broad-st. and a residence on the Thames near
Richmond. His books have made him; and he is a leading
authority on affairs Westralian.
** • *
A Westralian gold-mining promoter, in London,,
wrote the other day to a well-known pressman at his l
“country residence.” After some days the letter was re-
turned with the endorsement, “Refer to workhouse,"
followed by the inscription, “Absconded from work-
house.” Mighty is the pen ; mightier is Scotch whisky.
•• • *
“The West Australian boom has fairly set in.
here,” writes a Bulletin London correspondent by last
mail, “and the financial papers and other city sharks (in
almost every company-arrangement so many paid-up
shares are put down for the Mining Tout or the Weekly
Grab) have Australia on the brain. The Westralian Gold-
fields shares of £1 are now quoted at 605., and I feel sure
will go to £4 within a month. One of their properties
was placed on the market this week, shareholders in the
parent co. having “first call.” They alone subscribed
the amount of cash asked for almost four times over, and:
the public had no chance to come in at all. The “Em-
press of Coolgardie,” one of Lane’s mines, went to allot-
ment to-day and, I am told, had the whole of the desired
£90,000 applied for by the outside public. Very little of
the British cash will reach Australia. 10 per cent, may get
there; but the remaining 90 per cent, will aticklTihl
army of London sharks and their endless string of
and touts. The matter of squaring the papers is «i!~ M
big job-it costs £3OOO in advertising alone before
mine can hope to be successfully placed here." any
*•* ‘ *
The Pearl, after another period of tribulation
is on the Bendigo div. list. It worked upwards of°9n
years without a div., then refunded all loss in a w
Be . ln S splendidly-equipped, it soon runs out
gold if there is any in the stone.
* * ♦ ♦
Magdala-cim-Moonlight last crushing, 481 0, 0
from 655 tons. This is another mine in which much
was sunk before any came out. Few, if any. original
shareholders remained to reap the reward Binal
* * « *
Gympie crushings for Sept.—6624 tons f n ,
gold. _ Qian mire No. 1 N., 17580 z. ; Phcenix*
’ T? h<Bn . 1X No - 1 North > 8350 -i Smithfield N ’
16140 Z. Divs. for month, £16,183 ; calls, £8268 Total
yield for nine months, 82,0000z.—30.0000z. more than fa,
divs 6 £l7O OOO 8 * year ‘ ° allS f ° r ni " e months - £60,790;
• • • •
■ B ; H^ Proprietar y last week treated 11,857 tons
ore for 975 tons bu11i0n—259,3590z. silver ona
• * • *
After two weary years there is at last a move-
ment in the Croydon (Q.) share-market.
• • ♦ *
The Iguana Extended, at Croydon, is again
starting. The mine blocks off the once sensational Onhir
but a bar intervenes, and the Extended has yet to discover
what’s on t’other side of the break.
♦ » • ■ - ■ *
By the beginning of ’95, Croydon’s four
different cyanide works will monthly treat about 6000 tons
taihngs. Yet another cyanide plant is going upthere-af
the Highland Mary Mill. Capacity, 150 tons weekly and
there are 15,000 tons to treat. *
• • * *
Croydon’s big mine, True Blue Blook-last
crushing, 530 tons, 1580 oz. This is likely to be most
regular div.-paying mine in near future. Golden Gate
8 North, last nine weeks’ work—4B7 tons, 1056nz. (Gold
value £2 125., sd. div., £1600). Golden Gate, 8 West 250
tons, 4250 z. ’
* * • *
Melb. Mining Exhibition is a practical, though
not spectacular, success. Hamlet without the Prince is
said Exhibition without the Frue Tanner. Otis Engineer
ing Cos. would not exhibit at Tyne Foundry. The omission
gives a chance to a lot of good ideas that are not vet
mechanically perfected. J
The simplest pulveriser shown is the Torpedo
Mountain brusher. It gives no Jar to the worker, has not
the usual coffee-mill action, and, apparently, does good
work.
Many of the separators are very complicated
and would take a day to clean up. One, at least the
Eureka, has not this fault. ’
One genius has invented a cradle like those used
in the fifties.
The Exhibition will produce a second crop of
inventors. One of them, it is hoped, will include aiovely
circular pan with circular ripples that is not fully appre-
ciated by its present exhibitor.
* * * *
A small rotten-ironstone formation, carrying
very rich fine gold, has been found about a mile from
Newbridge railway-station (N.S.W.), in a farmer’s culti-
vation paddock. The formation consists of a quartz vein
of 6 to 9in. and about 6in. rich rotten-ironstone: after
this about a foot of poorer material and another small
vein of rich stuff. The actual discoverers worked the
quartz, had one crushing at 16dwt. per ton, and didn’t
value the dirt beside it. The property is now' in the hands
of a Sydney syndicate, who propose crushing several tons.
The formation is something like the Lucknow brown
vein, and a few weeks’ work should prove it either a
pocket or a permanent, rich gold-bearing formation.
* • ♦ ♦
The Rand average per ton was at one time
nearly an ounce; it is now 9dwt. But the tonnage is
upwards of a quarter-of-a-million a month.
» * * •
During the present year South Africa has, it is
■cabled, exported £8,000,000 worth of gold, and ex-Qov.
Robinson believes that the yield will be doubled before
the close of the century.
* • * *
The most economically-worked, best-managed,
and most consistent div.-paying gold-mine of Tasmania
is the Volunteer. Last crushing, 372 tons for 11430 z.:
div., Is. 6d. or £3750.
• • • ♦
Rumor of big discoveries on the property (nearly
1000 a.) owned by the Vic. Calliope Goldfield Syndicate,
Is directing attention to Central Q. mining. It is known
that steady prospecting has taken place on the ground
for the past year ; but, perhaps for fear of a Mining-on-
Private-Property Bill, little seems to have been said about
this matter. Like its neighbor, Mount Morgan, the
Calliope property is freehold, and so all unasked visitors
or intending prospectors are practically treated as tres-
passers.
• • ♦ «
When gold was first discovered in the Trans-
vaal, S. Africa, the shrewd Boers, seeing that dynamite
would have to be extensively used in developing the
mines, made the sale of that explosive a State monopoly,
from which they have ever since drawn a very big
revenue.
* • * »
George S. Nathan, the geologist, says that he
would have expected to find gold in the fens of Scotland
rather, than on the Witwatersrandt. "The gold wealth
■of the ’Randt,” says Dr. Qoertz, “is contained in a con-
glomerate strata of an old geologic period, which it was
hitherto supposed could not possibly be auriferous.”
The American mining-engineer, Hamilton Smith, adds
that the miner was as unaccustomed to the occurrence of
gold in the ’Randt formation as in the Mount Morgan
mine.
* * * *
Vie. mining district returns :
September quarter ’92 ’93 '94
Ballarat 60,394 50,439 60,851
Bendigo 56,901 55,013 87,688
Ararat 6,164 5628 7275
* • ♦ *
Dear Bulletin, —In your Sept. 22 issue you
'refer to the Hillgrove water-power and its success as an
electricity-generator. My contention is, let the Colo and
Grose Cos. have the rights, based on a royalty, or a lump-
sum right out. Then the State can turn its attention to
a better electrical source—viz., the tide flowing inwards
and outwards through Sydney Heads. This source would
yield more electricity than 1000 Colos combined. Just
calculate the inflow and the pressure, through an entrance
half-a-mile wide, of a sea moving at the rate of several
miles per hour, and rising and falling a number of feel
with flow and ebb. All that is necessary is to place a
number of submarine piles across the Heads, and between
these piles to affix or hang metallic wheels, like huge
floats, conducting wires to shore-fixed dynamos, and the
power is available for dispersion. Sydney tide through
its Heads would light the city, work all machinery, feed
lighthouses, and do many more things. Speaking of
lighthouses: these must march forward, and leave behind
the present primitive conditions. Probably they will be
self-floating ones, fastened to a cable, and the series
lighted up nightly from Sydney. What is the Gas Cos.
about? And how far from level-headed is the Sydney
Municipality 1 If this last turned its attention to th ■
electric business of the tidal water, and used the coal on
the harbour shores for electrical application, would the
business not cover many financial difficulties?—Youis,
YV. H. Parish, Ravenswood (Q.).
• • • •
Marks, who had a spell in Coolgardie hospital,
with low fever, left for London immediately after the
Londonderry find, and, upon arrival, gave a very sensa-
tional account of it to Pall Mall Gazette.
• • • *
The big Melb. restaurant which formerly con-
tracted for the midday meals of all Dalgety and Co.’s
■employes, suspended operations for a day nr two recently.
On reopening, behold said employes transferred their feed-
ing to another place, for the simple reason tint, fie lute
caterer could only give them “colonial” wine with tln-i r
food, whereas the new one gives them English beer.
What have the big winegrowers largely interested in
Dalgety’s got to say to this ?
( “ Wild Cat ” continued on page 23).


g
Butchers’ Produce, Kangaroo, Opossum, Rabbit, Sheepskins, etc.,
FORWARD TO
MBURNBY, WALLIS & CO.
N M‘JtVRNEY I 15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., It. C. FRANKS
E. S. WAEEIS f and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. (Ltd.). S. J. HEAD
TRe only Hou.se in tlie Trade where members of
tlie Firm condluct all Sales.
HIGHEST PRICES. QUICKEST RETURNS.
Wool Warehouses : - MARGARET STREET and PYRMONT.
Produce Stores: CIRCULAR QUAY.
Offices : - Macquarie Street, SYDNEY.
V.
»
■
m
The widow sails under the black flag.
-A. H> 3VE S ’
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a Superior
Quality. Electric Light.
CHARGES STRICTLY MODERATE.
Accommodation with or without Board. Table cl' Hole
Daily at 1 p.m.
The Marble Bar is now the Popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Mr. GEO. ADAMS is making a Specialty of
Walker's Extra Special Liqueur Whisky
In his MARBLE BAR, Pilt-street, Sydney.
APLIN & CO.,
STOCK, STATION and FINANCIAL AGENTS,
Shipping, Forwarding and Customs Work. Special
Attention to Commercial Travellers.
EAGLE STREET. BRISBANE, Q.
CHAS. O’REILLY (.Established 1866),
Customs, Fob.warding & Commission Agents
A.U.S.N. Co.'s Wharf, IiKISIiAMi.
A. Xj. FRB 13 DODDS,
'—DENTIST—'
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
(opposite “ Courier” Buildings).
Special Attention paid to Painless Operating.
U O. NTOBLB & CO.,
‘(LICENSED) CUSTOM-HOUSE AGENTS.
Goods Cleared and Forwarded promptly to all parts.
Charges Moderate.
EAGLE STREET. BRISBANE, Q.
COX «3c SEALY,
Stock Station, General Commission Agents and
Valuators,
Parburv’s Buildings, Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
Hair Will Go Grey.
Vw
GOOCH’S
mm wash
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECT RIO WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only beinsr necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour. ,
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.).
Importer of Human Hair.
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion,
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
The Best
Aperient
For Ladies,
Infants,
and
Invalids.
Prescribed by
Physicians.
All Chemists
1/3,2/6 and 3/6
Per Bottle,
BOSISTO’S
‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
SW CAUTION. —Be Careful to Secure
BOSISTO S “PARROT BRAND.”
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S na
Renders Life Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S -an
Clears the House, the Conservatory, and
the Garden of all Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S ■«
Preserves Furs from the Moth.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Cleanses Domestic Pets of Parasites.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S isa
Is the only Genuine. Ask for Kruse’s,
and take none other.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. _ _ KRUSE’S
Sold Everywhere, in Tins at 1/-, 1/6,
2/6, 5/- each.
■ .*»
GENUINE
“ HUMBER
RACERS.
£2O nett .
Edge & Edge,
248 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
BICYCLE MAKERS & IMPORTERS.
g
FINE
TUSCAN
BOATIIia HAT.
Trimmed with Moire or Plain
Silk, with Plume,
7s. 6d. each.
Orders by Post, with Postal Order, attended to.
C. F. Priddy & Co.,
438 GEORGE STREET (opp. Lassetter’s),
Branch—67B Geokge , Stjjekt (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOMN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le I> able,
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ WtJliam
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “11 Troya-
tore,” “Bes Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each —Of all MnsiC-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English .V Colonial Celebrities
Tov Cartoons, &c.
BLACK and WHITE ARTIST (Line Only)
thoroughly qualified in cartoon, portrait,
and perspective drawing, desires work, Melbourne,
Brisbane, or Adelaide papers. Close observer <>£
political events, has good ideas, and is speedy in.
manipulation. Reference permitted to Manager*
Bulletin. Address, “Kaolin,” this Office.
CHE A P MUSI C.
“THE DEAR HOME SONGS,” and “PLAY-
FELLOWS.” These Charming Songs and 1000 other
popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all
dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
203 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
DADOES AND BORDERS.
A
%
%
%
%
MO
%
%
S
23
£
<2
&
%
3*
%
:
:
*
♦
\
%
WALL PAPERS. 3«L ROLL.
i). hi. liiilli),
Analytical Chemist and Assay ec,
GYMPIE.
A. J. Fisher & Co
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS,
Charters 'l'owera.
Telegrams receive prompt attention. Clients’
interest protected.
Lost Ma.nh.oodL
From whatever causes arising, in young or old, CURED
in 24 Days by Dr. BROWN-SEQUARD’S TRIPLE COM
POUND LIFE ESSENCE. Pamphlet posted free. Write
F. H. De Leon, 78 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
A.M., M.D., M.R.C.S., Eng.; F.R.0.5., Ed.,
LATE OF
201 Macquarie Street,
May be Consulted Personally or by Letter at
164 CRYSTAL STREET, PETERSHAM.
Scientific Eyesight Testing Rooms,
O
R
LONDON, LIVERPOOL and MANCHESTER.
Whether considered as a means to education or recrea-
tion, good eyesight gives us more satisfaction than all our
other senses put together; our eyes should therefore be
treated well. Thousands of persons who could not pre-
viously obtain Spectacles to correct their defects of vision,
have testified to the relief and comfort experienced when
fitted by WOOD’S standard tests.
299 George Street, SYDNEY
(Near Hunter Street);
314 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE
(Royal Arcade Corner),
jar" SEND FOR CIRCULARS.and PAMPHLETS.
11l
signers
iAWflUBhr,
A number of selectors near Cunnamulla
(Q.) are combining to put down an artesian bore
in a central position, so as to water all their hold-
ings—ever so much better than fighting about
boundaries, or impounding each other’s stock.
Specimen of grammar from a Govern-
ment document just published : “ Return of
Deceased Persons’ Estates, showing the name of
the Deceased and the value of the Land contained
therein.” Evidently the deceased must have
eaten an awful lot of dirt, for in one instance the
land “ contained therein ” was valued at £133,000.
Two masts from the wreck of the Gape
Verde, which has been a hindrance to navigation
in Hobson’s Bay for the last four years, have been
blown up by dynamite. Both the Melb. evening
papers gave accounts of the occurrence, marked
by the usual unveracity. The Standard describes
how, when the dynamite was fired, ‘‘two columns
of water were seen to rise through the darkness,”
and the two masts were afterwards found floating
close by—which, considering that the Cape Verde
was an iron-masted ship, was really remarkable.
The Herald went in for color. It made the ex-
plosion take place, not in the darkness, but at sun-
set, when ‘‘the sky is crimson and the glistening
waters reflect the red glory, whilst overhead the
heavens are deep blue, shot here and there with
pink, and tinted towards the edge with shades of
violet and pearl.” Oscar Wilde has written on
the “Decay of Lying.” If he only read the Aus-
tralian papers-—
Dear Bulletin, —Regarding the “ scien-
tific reality” of the policeman’s foot. Does not
anyone of average intellect know that the “aris-
tocratic instep ” and tapering toes are partly the
result of aristocratic brevity of foot-gear ? The
aristocratic foot is not a picturesque or
artistic reality with its sock off; but a
ghastly conglomeration of overlapping toes, in-
growing nails, and other tortures to the owner.
A course of pedestrianism will overcome the vanity
of “ shapely ” shoes in any man; the foot is
simply resuming its normal shape. In evidence
of this, the foot of the aboriginal is flat, the toes
outspread ; ancient sculptures or paintings show
no trace of feet that would look effective in
modern shoes. Being a pedestrian, and, of course,
flat-footed, I am sick of the hoary jokes on the
subject ; every second “ wit ” enquires how I get
my pedal extremes through the wire fences with-
out cutting the wires. —Sugar Doodle, Narra-
te me.
The fate of the Prime Minister in the
“ Bauble Shop ” nearly befell Lord Rosebery not
long ago —so an Argus correspondent alleges. He
was going home at a late hour one night when two
nocturnal females addressed him affectionately.
He grew indignant, whereupon the gold-washed
houris laughed hilariously and trotted behind him
right to his own doorstep, calling him “ love ” and
“ducky,” and soon. Arrived at the house they
endeavoured to follow him in, but Rosebery
banged the door behind him so suddenly that one
of the fallen angels got her dress caught and
couldn’t extricate herself. The frantic objurga-
tions which they addressed through the keyhole
were mistaken by the statesman for more endear-
ments, and he went peacefully to bed, leaving a
lady of ill-fame fastened to his front door as an
advt. An hour or so later he was wakened
by the mild persistence of a bobby. “I only
wanted to tell yer lordship,” said the guar-
dian of the night, huskily, “that the young
lady yer lordship let out just now got her
dress jammed in the door when yer lordship shut
it. I’ve sent her home all right, yer lordship.”
If the Nonconformist Conscience had happened to
pass instead of the mercenary bobby, that yellow-
haired deceiver who said that Rosebery had let
her out of his house in the dead of night might
have finished his career right there. As it is, he
will probably hear of the incident later on. When
a Prime Minister has a lady of ill-fame fastened
to his front-door in the small hours of the morning,
all the explanation in the English language won't
do him much good. However, The Bulletin
doesn’t take much stock in this story. Multi-
millionaire Prime Ministers don’t usually attend
to their own doors, by day or night.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best; restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.
Dear Bulletin, —You notice the fact that
N.S.W. Government Agricultural Gazette
(paid for by the general community) is now
declared copyright. This surely can only be done
to throw dust in the eyes of the public. Anyone
who reads the Australian journals, and American
agricultural literature, and compares the matter
with that published in N.S.W. Agricultural
Gazette, must have [some] curious ideas as to the
“Law of Copyright” in Australia. The only
correct botanical illustration printed in the first
“ copyright ” issue of the A. Gazette was a fac-
simile of one that appeared in the T. and C.
Journal, years ago; as usual, no acknowledg-
ment as to the original source was given.—
Agricultural Student,
Nina (enthusiastically) : “ Oh, Fritz, have
you read Sarah Grand?” Fritz (sleepily):
“Eh! What’s that! Sairey Gamp!” Nina:
“No, no! Sarah Grand, who wrote ‘The
Heavenly Twins ’! ” Fritz (dozing off) : “ Sairey
Gamp—twins, good idea that.” Falls fast asleep.
Scene : Q. Courthouse, Monday morning,
after plantation pay-day ; clean-faced, aldermanic
J.P, on the Bench; Jack (a drunk) in the box,
with policeman standing by. J.P. : “What’s ’e
up for?” Policeman: “Drunk, yer Worship.”
Drunk (to J.P.): “Don’t be hard on me, Bill;
it’s pay-day.” J.P. : “Look ’ere, Jack. I may
be Bill outside, but in ’ere I’m ‘ yer blanky Wor-
ship.’ ”
Dear Bulletin, — On one N. Queensland
plantation a system of black-gin slavery is carried
on which beats kanaka recruiting into a cocked
hat. If a kanaka takes a fancy to any particular
gin he takes her away from the camp ; or, to put
it more truthfully, three or four of his mates
take her by main force. The “terms” come
afterwards, when a bargain is struck with the
father or Benjamin of the gin. Sometimes a
kanaka pays as much as £i or £5, but the
usual amount is £2. In some cases the gin
lives half her time with a kanaka_ boy and the
other half at the camp with her original husband.
When any piccanninies are expected the
question : Is it to live or die? is discussed for
months beforehand. The answer depends mostly
on sex, girls being more in demand. If the
verdict is Death the unfortunate little wretch is
buried alive as soon as born._ (Fact!) These and
many other disgusting crimes are committed
daily, and known to everyone on the estate. All
the boys who have gins must first ask the
manager’s consent. The law winks at these
things; the church excuses them; and the general
public knows nothing about them.—\ours,
Raven, Lower Burdekin, Q.
Dear Bulletin, —You say that a Monaro
man has gained the belt as champion gormandiser,
and cite as proof the fact that on a recent occasion
he consumed 16 eggs, a couple of loaves of bread
and three quarts of tea. A trifle. Some years
ago the writer was staying at a fisherman’s place
on the Hawkesbury. One day a guest arrived
who was treated by the fisherman with respect
almost amounting to reverence. He was no
beauty to look at, having light sandy hair, a
bullet-head, and a face freckled like a turkey-egg.
“Who is this distinguished person?” said the
writer in an aside to the fisherman. “ Don’t you
know him?” remarked the latter in a tone of
astonishment. “ Why, that’s , champion
porridge-eater of the Hawkesbury.” Of this
gentleman the story is told that certain wags
bought a ticket for him admitting him to a
banquet given to Hughie Taylor, then member for
Parramatta. Mr. began his performance
by taking a whole turkey on his plate and devour-
ing it with appalling ease. Some of the other
guests, observing this Gargantuan exploit, and,
having some knowledge of their man, recognised a
wicked device of the enemy intended to cast
ridicule on the function. They gave a hint to
this effect to the landlord, who, after some diffi-
culty, succeeded in inducing Mr. to leave the
table. When this was accomplished, the landlord
asked him if he would take a sovereign and a
bottle of whisky to absent himself from the
remaining stages of the banquet. “And another
turkey,” said Mr. . The bargain was con-
cluded on this basis. Some evenings later the
hero was sitting in the bar - parlor of a
local hotel, refreshing himself at the expense
of the wags who had engaged him for the per-
formance referred to. The latter were discussing
in terms of admiration his wonderful capacity for
the stowage of food. Suddenly one of them,
carried away by his enthusiasm, XII
bet a pound that ,if he likes to give his mind
to it, can eat a bullock at a sitting.” The great
trencherman shook his head modestly, and leaning
over towards the speaker said, in a whisper,
“ Make it a calf and I’ll try !” — Creeve Roe.


SNAKEBITE ANTIDOTE
Pocket Cases
(Made of Strong Polished Metal).
ĝ
For Dr. MUELLEE’S suc-
cessful treatment of Snake-
bite by the hypodermic in-
jection of strychnine, com-
plete with Poison Suokbr.
Price, 18/- postage paid to
all the colonies.
The same, but without
Poison Sucker, in leather
case, 13,6; in metal case,
15/-
POISON SUCKERS ALONE, 3/6.
L. BEUOK, 13 Oastlereagh-st., Sydney
BENDI&0 COGNAC DISTILLERY BRANDY.
mHE finest Brandy the world produces. The only pure
i- GRAPE BRANDY in Australia, distilled solely from
wine, as certified by the Victorian Government Excise
Department.
Each cask bearing a certificate to that effect signed by
the Excise Officer in charge of distillery.
Sole Agents for Bulk and Bottled:
VERKINS & CO., limited, BRISBANE.
MONEY
MONEY to lend on CITY property at per
cent. SUBURBAN and COUNTRY property
at sto per cent, for 3or 5 years, including C.P.
and C.L. Lands. TRADE BILLS discounted.
Money advanced on buildings in course of
erection, REVERSIONARY interests, or any
security. Also, on furniture WITHOUT A
BILL OF SALE.
ARMSTRONG & CO.,
Mutual of Victoria Chambers, 273 George Street,
SYDNEY,
COLEMANE A SONS’, Ltd.,
WORLD-FAMED
Eucalypte Extract
/yTTf> Tjl & Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Cy C J JX/Jhld Consumption, Influenza, &c., &c.
Awarded (Sold Medal, Chicago 1893.
ASK FOR
Colemane and. Sons’,
And see that you get it.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Is. 6d. and 2s. Gd.
jA extinct Meeting.
the £xecuti\)e Dnammous.
W'
i
to
'X
k
to.
£J>
/"n
IS
U
£
&
tr-^
/'
N
c
a
;■
V.
/
“My Favorite" t£a.
Richest inTiavour. Superior m Quality.
SCtopoNl plainly, QUIfC ftlC BCSt.
All Grocers. —» ' E
o.rtNs.tc.
THE
‘Plum*
g
Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p . > I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2is.
noe \Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Agents = CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
WARBURTON & SON.
Head Office— WAß BURTON’S WHARF, PYRMONT.
Branches—Cowper’s Wharf and Dowling-street, Woolloomooloo; and Alfred-street, North Sydney.
COAL & PRODUCE MERCHANTS ,
Sawmill Proprietors, Steamship Owners, etc.
SPECIALITY COAL, WOOD, etc. Supplied in any quantity at the Lowest Possible Price.
The Oldest-established Firm of Coal Meechants in New South Wales,
m- We supply Coal to all parts of New South Wales and Victoria, and elsewhere.
White Troppo Helmet,
Rain and Sun Proof,
15/6 (POST FREE).
GENT.’S TERAI, 8/6 and 10/6
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for COOKSEY & CO., London,
Gold Medal Hats.
Established 1854.
JOHN M'NAB&SON
(COACHBUILDERS),
GEORGE STREET,
BRISBANE.
The LARGEST Assortment of VEHICLES in
Queensland to select from.
‘THE LAST OF SIX.’
Talcs of the Austral Tropics.
m- PRICE: Is. j per Post, Is. 3d. 1*
With Puggaree, 2/- extra.
Bodalla Cheese.
CATJTIOU.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of**
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODA.LLA.
Bears the Registered Brand ot lire Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
0
Wholesale Agent:
JOHN SHEARWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
MOWEY TO LENTI3
At LOW BATES of INTEREST by the
N. 2. W. Mont do Piete Deposit & Investment Co., Ltd.,
U CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Next door to St. James’ School),
Upon Deeds of Land, Furniture without possession, Bond
Certificates, Personal Security. Bills Discounted Daily.
COMPANY
not
BRANCHES
SYDNEY.
fet.Y4.WBS
eOKXH>
The shareholders of this Company do not seek to make
large profits, but are satisfied to receive a Fair Return
for their capital, and are thus enabled to advance money
to borrowers upon reasonable terms.
Persons who pay high rates of interest for loans must
blame themselves, while they can obtain from the above
Company any sum, small or large, at exceptionally low
rates of interest, and can repay the same by WEEKLY or
MONTHLY INSTALMENTS.
Pledge rates of interest obtained on application. All
communications must be addressed to the Manager, or
will not be recognised. LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
€ 6 mADES of thk CONVICT SYSTEM.”
" L PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
Emperor William has decided to attend
Paris Exhibition in Anno Domini 1900. This
arrangement, however, is understood to be subject
to the approval of William’s guide, philosopher,
and friend—the Almighty. In his capacity of
Heaven’s Will he may change his plans before the
end of the century.
Both the old Melb. City Police-court and
the old District Court adjoining are now the
studios of artists. Subjects now “ sit ” where the
beaks formerly sat, and charming models stand
on the site of the prisoners’ dock. One of the
artists is a lady who calls her place the “ Court
studio.”
AND THIS IS ONE OF THEM.
There are some truths that ought to be blown
through a million trumpets every hour;
that, ought to be printed in big type on the front
page of every newspaper; that ought to be painted
on every signboard at the crossroads ; that ought
to be taught in every school. And this is one of
them : There is no such thing on earth as a tonic
medicine.
People talk of “ tonics ” and doctors talk of
“ tonics.” Pshaw ! When a country is discovered
in which no food stuffs are ever raised or imported,
and in which the men, women, and children are
all well and hearty, we may conclude they subsist
on some sort of “tonic.” The mischief this
delusion about tonics has done is beyond calcula-
tion. It leads the sick to lean on broken reeds,
to expect relief from a source from which it is
simply impossible that relief can come, to waste
money in buying “tonics,” and precious time in
waiting for these alleged “ tonics ” to work
miracles.
Mr. Thomas Foster, of 15, Chatham Place,
Adelaide Street. Hull, in an account of a recent
illness, says, among other things, this : “I then
tried stomach tonics, but they did me no good.”
Suppose we have his whole story, which is short,
and make our comment on it afterwards. He says :
“ Up to the month of June, 1891, I was strong and
healthy. At that time I fell into a low, weak
condition. I felt languid and heavy, and was
always tired. I had a foul taste in the mouth,
and a dreadful pain in the chest and sides after
eating, whilst my stomach was like a burning hre.
I was much troubled with wind, which seemed to
roll all over me, and I had a constant belching and
rising in my throat. I was in agony day and
night, and for hours I walked about the room
rubbing my chest in the effort to obtain relief.
I lost a deal of sleep, and felt worse tired in the
morning than when I went to bed. Gradually I
became weaker and weaker until I had hard work
to follow my employment, for / was in misery all
the time.
“ I went to a doctor, who sounded me and gave
me medicines, but I got no relief, and after taking
his medicines for a month, I left off going to him.
I then tried stomach tonics and other medicines but
nothing did me any good. In this state I con-
tinued week after week, growing more feeble all
the while. I felt that if I did not soon find a
remedy I should be done for altogether.
“In October, 1891, a book was left at my house
telling of a medicine called Mother Seigel’s Cura-
tive Syrup, and describing a case like mine that
had been cured by it. As I had often heard this
medicine well spoken of, I made up my mind to
try it, and got a bottle from Mr. Cousins, in
Anlaby Road. After I had taken two doses, I felt
grateful relief, and before I had quite finished the
battle I was completely cured, and have since been
in the best of health.
“ I thank God that this medicine was ever made
known to me. Otherwise I should have been in my
grave before now. I will answer anyone who may
write concerning the facts here set forth. Yours
truly (Signed), Thomas Foster, 15, Chatham Place,
Alelaide Street, Hull, March 24th, 1892.”
Now let us see. The symptoms of Mr. Foster’s
complaint are easily recognisable. He suffered
from indigestion and dyspepsia. The medicines
administered by his physician or purchased by
himself proved useless because they were not
addressed to the disease with which he was actually
afflicted, but possibly to one or more of its symp-
toms. To abolish any existing evil it is always
causes we must work at —never mere conse-
quences.
The “stomach tonics” which Mr. Foster hoped
might relieve him may have done so for a moment
on precisely the same principle that a sharp
application of whip and spur wakes up a tired
horse, not by giving him strength, but by rousing
his reserved nervous force, with a deeper reaction
to follow. That’s how it ever was and will be.
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup restored this
gentleman to real and genuine health by cleansing
his system of the poison of disease, by removing
the obstacles and enabling the stomach to retain
and digest food. Avery simple thing, yet how
hard to accomplish, oh ! my masters.
The remedy does it, however, as is testified by
a host of witnesses all over the world—witnesses
who say more in praise of its merits than you
would have time to read.
The Bed Grave of the Communists.
A suggestive glimpse from the new English
magazine, St. Paul’s: —“The explanation of
the inherited revenge in Prance which ex-
presses itself fn Anarchy over Europe,
is found in this picture : * The Communists’
Grave at P&re-la-Chaise,’ It has been given
to no stage-manager to produce so dramatic,
so thrilling a picture as this in the outcasts’ corner
of the great cemetery, I must assume your know-
ledge of the tragedy of the Rue Haxo, Belleville —
‘Les Martyrs du Calvaire,’ as they were called —
when, in May, 1871, eleven .priests—among them
the saintly P5re Olivaint, who tried so faithfully to
aid General Trochu —thirty-seven Gardes de Paris
and gendarmes, and four civilians were massacred
in a one-time pleasure-ground that surrounded
caJ6, now a cemetery and a chapelle-ardente in
memory of the murdered ones. It will be remem-
bered that a young woman of the worst class led the
assault, and dared the men to follow her. It was
horrible 1 Fifty-two human beings massacred in
cold blood 1 But the sequel 1 Is it more edifying
to read ? The very next day the soldiers poured
into Belleville, seized five hundred of the Com-
munists, marched them into the cemetery of P6re-
la-Ohaise, dug a huge grave before their eyes,
propped them against the wall, and shot them
until they were all dead. No form of trial —no
justice was shown them; the act had not even the
semblance of decency that Robespierre gave his
butcheries. They were slain — innocent and
guilty—in the name of Law and Order. Of course,
the Communists were rebels; but who made them
what they were ? The starving people had been
lied to until they trusted no one. It was always
the same man at the top who lied worse than his
predecessor. The more they changed, the more
things remained as they were. But the soldiers
represented Law and Order, and they were more
culpable than any mob. They were madmen, too,
with deliberate intent to do evil; and, if law
is not calm and just, in what does it differ
from Anarchy ? [Amen ! Look at the brutal
Mount Rennie trial. —Ed. B.] Such is the
opinion of the most conservative Europeans
who visit this awful spot. Going from the
Belleville Mission, you walk, through the Rue
Pyrenees, on to the side-gate of Pere-la-Ohaise,
where they have cut a new road and, in a few
moments, you come upon Act II. of the tragedy
of 1871. Red as the reddest blood, and appearing
to drip from the verdure, is the Altar of Revengel
The first sight thrills one to the very finger-tips.
It is the most awful picture in Europe ! Against
this high wall, only slightly touched with the
green of a young ivy, a low-spreading rose-bush
and some stunted laurels, are hanging about 500
blood-red wreaths in various stages of freshness
and decay. Some are of dyed immortelles,
some are of scarlet cloth — nearly all are
inscribed “Revenge,” “Martyr,” “Murdered
by Society,” “Murdered by Law,” “To my
Father,” “To my Friend,” and the like.
The spot is avoided like pestilence by all but
the Anarchist descendant, or the European visitor
who by chance may have heard of this pariah-
region of the cemetery. Thousands of visitors to
Pere-la-Chaise come and go without seeing it. I
moved nearer and saw that time-wear and wind-
drift had not yet obliterated the mark of the
bullets which pierced the human flesh and lodged
in the brick and mortar of the wall. A piece of
writing-paper, closely inscribed, hangs on the
wall, where it is ever kept fresh and legible_ by some
vigilant. It tells the story of one victim of
the tragedy, a working man—an engraver—who
was shot before he finished writing the message of
which this much was carried to his widow by the
officer who ordered the fusillade “enbloc.” It
reads ; —* Adieu, adieu, ma chere femme ! Adieu,
adieu, mes trois petits enfants ! Adieu, mes chers
amis. Je meurs sans avoir verse une seule goutte
de sang .’ There they hang, bitter denuncia-
tions, full of both truth and error, showing the
saddening complex light and darkness in the
minds of the “Parti-ouvrier,” and giving the pro-
logue to the present chapter of Anarchy.”
Daily Post, proposed Sydney democratic
daily paper, now advertises that its first issue will
appear not later than Dec. 1. It also invites
applications for the editorship.
Lord Ripon’s opinion of Northern Fat
Man separatists; “ I gather that this view ” (that
Separation is undesirable) “is shared also by the
members of the Electoral Committee of the N.Q.
Separation League.”
The attention of the draught-dried eye of
the Australian Gimlet Brigade is called to the
fact that Scandinavian law declares any woman
who has stooped to folly to be the wife of the
putative father of her illegitimate fchild, if the
man declines to go through the regular amending
form of marriage. This, with the proviso that
the betrayal of the alleged maiden must have
been effected under a promise to marry. Which,
of course, is always the case.
Melb. Church of England Assembly vetoed
a resolution to admit all regular church-goers to
eligibility as office-bearers, and decided that a sub-
scription qualification of £1 per annum should
remain obligatory. One parson declared that the
suggested democratic reform would “ re-introduce
the pothouse element into the spiritual affairs of
the church,” an argument which presents curious
phases of analysis. The Church, like every other
supposedly desirable forage - ground, evidently
belongs to Fat Man, but it is also true that “ the
pothouse element ” can afford to be fat. Bung,
who cares nothing about the church, except to
serve Sunday drinks to the male choristers, may
never enter the blessed sanctuary, but, so long as
he donates to it .£1 a year out of his lambings-
down, he shall be eligible as an office-bearer;
while Ohurchmouse, the constant communicant,
who goes supperless once a week in order to save
a silver coin to drop in the church-plate (which
doesn’t count as a “ donation ”) .is left amongst
the vulgar sinners relegated to the backless pews
at the draughty end of the temple. The clergy, if
they only perceived the conditions, would under-
stand that they live chiefly upon “ the pothouse
element.”


PUL VERM ACHER’S
WORLD-FAMED
G-WXj'V.A-IN'IG S-A-UnTIDS,
Belts and Rochet liatteries,
A« * I-' 11 i<l mended by all the most eminent
physicians tlir mahout Ihe world. The nmst simple and
effectual cure known tor
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, PARA-
LYSIS, U LVFNESS, HEAD and TOOTH ACHE,
NERVO J.-NESS, and other Nervous, Muscular and
Functional Maladies.
13?" Those who suffer should send for Pamphlet,
“ GALVANISM,”
Nature’s Chief Restorer of Impaired Vital Energy, which
will give full particulars of the treatment.
We are the SOIE AGENTS for PULVERMACHBR’S
GALVANIC APPLIANCES, and can most highly
recommend them, and will, with pleasure, give any in-
formation and forward (post free) the pamphlet men-
tioned.
Frost & Shiplxam,
MANUFACTURING ELECTRICIANS, Etc.
474 George Street, Sydney .
g
SOFT CANVAS SHIRTS
FOR STATION WEAR. Unshrinkable
and almost Indestructible. Price, 5/- each.
Sample Shirt Delivered Free to any part of
Queensland on receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6
28/6 per Half-Dozen. To measure—ln ordering:,
state height, size of collar and chest measure.
Write for Patterns.
PIKE BROS., Brisbane.
g
Oa3UBK!M2a
mum
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6rt.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratU.
D. A. VINDIN &. CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Anthony Hordern’s
—GRAND—
Spring Show
Good Washers All.
These have always been a leading line, and the
present season is no exception to its predecessors.
Possibly you don’t know it, but they had a wet
summer in Europe, and consequently large quan-
tities of the season’s goods were left on hand, and
manufacturers were glad to quit at a low price for
SPOT CASH. And
SPOT GASH DID IT.
Our buyers toured the manufacturing districts,
and, CASH IN HAND, had the pick of the
most beautiful of the goods made for the European
summer trade. This splendid operation will have
a tremendous effect on the section concerned, and
in natural course upon the selling prices. The
cost of a dress will be less, while the assurance
will remain that the gown exhibits every fashion-
able characteristic. So marked is the difference
in many favorite lines that a dress and a-half will
cost no more than a single one under any other
circumstances. It will be well to bear these facts
in mind when contemplating the purchase of
Washing Materials.
Anthony Hordern & Sons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only).
The Only Certain Moustache Producer .
g
g
111 Try It.'
CAPIllAME!
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10/6
Sole Agents:
&
The Result.
Craig 6c Altken, 680-682 George-st,, Sydney.
Dear Bulletin, —In the Manly Co-operative
8.8. Co.’s refusal to consider the question of amalga-
mating with its practically - defeated rival, the Port
Jackson s.s. Cos., isn’t the new co. just a little too-
cocky. The old 00., being now down on its marrowbones,
and ready to concede all that the new crowd set out to
acquire, the latter should welcome amalgamation, and
with it the chance to acquire large boats. The new co. s
boats have served their purpose in a way, but they are
uncomfortable and are not likely for years to earn, in the
face of opposition, the money to buy modern vessels. Mr.
Badgery, who has helped to pilot the new co., talks sense
when he indicates that there should be no malice in busi-
ness. Let the new 00. “ lay to its book.”—Z.
• ♦ • •
Is it true that Sydney bonded stores contain
quantities of spirits, notably rum, which have been tested
by the Govt, analyst, and found unfit for consumption?
If so, why has not the stuff been destroyed ? The state-
ment, if true, ought to exonerate some of the publicans
lately prosecuted for selling bad liquor,
The Foreign Insurance Co.’s Bill has been so
badly mangled by Maoriland Upper House that there is
little of it left. Therefore the attempt to eject those
English co.’s which ship their profits ’Ome to the dear old
mother country to pay divs. to British shareholders has
failed for the present.
• • • •
Occupations of prisoners (Vie.) 1891 (Hayter) r
Jockeys and others connected with amusements, 9 ; book-
makers (bettors), 3; bank-officers, 4; lawyers, 4; trader*
and clerks, 227.
* ♦ • •
Premier Seddon’s will acts like a sledge-
hammer once his mind is made up-. Recently 220 men,
employed at Denniston coal-mines (M.L.), were thrown
out because the directors shut down the works. As this
spelled starvation for close on 500 souls, Seddon told
Roderick M'Kenzie in the House that the leases of the
company would be forfeited.
The management of certain metal-works should
explain why they only allow £4 an ounce for pure gold,
the value of which is £4 4s. 10Jd. If the charge of £3 a
ton is not sufficient for chlorination it would be better to
increase it than get another 5 per cent, by this practice.
• * • *
That unfortunate Victorian agriculturist who
alleges that Thomas Bent took advantage of his ignorance
to transfer to him 36,000 shares in a hopelessly insolvent
land co., and thus make him liable for £47,000 in calls,
has won his case against the squat ex-Speaker. Presum-
ably, will get back his 36,000 shares and
become responsible for his own calls after a valiant effort
to shunt the crushing liability on to a fellow-creature.
According to the telegraphed summary of the case, Judge
A’Beckett declared Bent's explanation of the transaction
to be “ absurd and incredible.” Rent preserved some
faded semblance of his old boom-glories long after most
of his old associates were extinct, but his end seems to
have about arrived.
« • • •
Prof. Liversidge has discovered payable gold in
Sydney sandstone, and has read a paper before the Royal
Society on the results of his investigations. His assays
reached as high as 12dwts. The Prof, admits that in
selecting his samples he looked for pieces of sandstone
impregnated with iron. Such an admission only proves
the occurrence of gold associated with iron, not with
sandstone—the average gold-content of which is pro-
bably not as many grains as the Prof, got dwts.
♦ • • *
The fact that all-round investment in the work-
ing mines of Gympie will return over 20 per cent., and
that this percentage has been long kept up, is receiving
attention in Sydney, where more business is now done in
Gympie stocks than in any other.
« * * •
A few days before the big find at Tarnagulla
(Vic.) a party of prospectors sank various holes within 20
yards of the treasure, and went away unsuccessful and
disgusted. Then Biggs and two others came along, and,
from a hole just three inches below the surface, they got
£IOOO worth of gold in an afternoon. They resolved to
keep the find a secret until they had followed up the dis-
covery, but one of them told a friend in strict confidence,
and next day the ground was pegged out on both sides of
the big discovery, leaving the prospectors only 400 ft. to
themselves. Which is one more evidence that the suc-
cessful prospector should be a friendless misanthrope.
Mining pluck is nob absolutely dead in N.S.W.
Reported that Mr. J. S. Dowe has re-opened Webb’s silver-
mine, and employs some 40 men there.
’ * » * •
A Straits Settlement correspondent to The
Bulletin: —Crushings in Pahang, Malay Peninsula, for
the June quarter; Punjom G.M. Cos. (Hongkong Cos.),
3073 tons, 15070 z. ; Malayan Concession (London Cos.),
2390 tons, 828 oz.; Raub Mining Cos. (Australian), 1420
tons, 9350 z. Raub promises to become a steady, good-
paying property shortly, recent developments at Bukit
Roman being very satisfactory. They have plenty of
average grade rock available, and when the additional ten-
head stamps are erected and at work, satisfactory returns
may be looked for and will be kept up.
* • • •
De Beer’s great diamond mine, S. Africa.
Revenue for last year, upwards of three millions; profit
on working, nearly two millions ; and divs. for the year,
over one million. During the year 600,000 tons diaraond-
iferous dirt was added to reserve, which now consists of
over three million tons. The next biggest diamond mine
is said to be the Monte Christo, at Bingara (N.S.W.), but
returns are not to hand. Perhaps Captain Rogers, Mr.
Dowell, or Sydney D.T., will oblige.
» * ♦ *
Nine-and-a-half tons Young O’Brien (Grenfell)
stone, crushed at Clyde works, yielded 17oz. 12dwts. gold.
♦ • • *
The Young O’Brien mine is now crushing 400
to 500 tons stone, which they (modestly, it is said) average
at an ounce.
• * • •
Editor Bulletin,—So Mb. Morgan imports its
manganese for chlorination from Java vi& Gladstone. If
so, Gladstone deserves all it gets in the way of neglect.
Manganese is not only plentiful in the vicinity, but in the
township itself. Auckland Point, the high perpendicular
bluff under which the vessel from Java must pass as she
enters the creek where the wharves are, is a. mass of
manganese 1 It was there 20 years ago, and I suppose it
is there still. The fact is, Gladstone, while snatching at
the shadow of a railway—a good enough thing in itself—
has neglected the substantial profit it might have made
out of its manganese. By all means, let it get as many
railways as it wants to utilise its port, which is the best
in Australia—better than Port Jackson, because its
entrance is sheltered from every wind that blows—but
let it make the most of its natural resources, and not be
content as a mere entrepot.—Port Curtis.
♦ * * ♦
A Vic. mining-manager, on applying for a
billet, the other day, was calmly informed by the legal
manager that amongst his other duties was the very
necessary one of furnishing such reports as would enable
the legal manager to “ get in the calls.” The reports
were to be written on that basis, irrespective of any
unfavourable development of the mine should such occur.
Billet declined.
« * * •
Queensland miners complain about the lack of
an Explosives Act. Smyth, of Gympie (M.L.A.), sug-
gests adoption of Victorian methods by which all explo-
sives are examined by a Government expert. Gelignite
often arrives in the North exuding from case. Smyth
advocates factories under Government supervision.
* * * *
The Bulletin hears some very tall stories about
gold-mining developments at Flyer’s Creek, N.S.W.
Croydon’s Sept, yield—47l4oz. from 2876 boas.
For the quarter, 21,8640 z. from 12,985 tons—a good in-
crease on last year.
Editor Bulletin, —You say re my letter to
Sydney D.T. that “more gold has been got out of three
tons Londonderry stone than out of all Wyalong.” No
doubt. But what’s the good of that to the multitude
standing on the wrong side of Fingall’s 7ft. spiked iron
fence ? There’s a better chance of getting fair return for
capital at Wyalong than by taking it 3000 miles where two
or three good things have been found during as many
years. While people are crowding West with their money
Gough is making about £50 a week out of his little
battery at Wyalong, and thousands of tons of stone are
waiting for treatment, scattered all over the field. It,
costs about 2oz. to take it to Mort’s Dock and treat it
there, even when roads are passable. By the way, there
was a misprint in that statement about 450 tons of
Wyalong stone being crushed at Bartnedman for llOoz.
I have not the exact figures, but the average was over
2oz. Welcome Stranger, 105 tons, went 6Joz. recently.
Some of the local returns are low, of course, as each
claim must take its turn, and even at Wyalong there is
some bad stone. Conway says he can beat the record
next time, and to prove it he will send 30 tons thiougb
the mud to Barmedman rather than wait his turn at the
local battery. Wyalong has had no boom yet and doesn’t
want one. But it wants batteries, and anyone who has a
machine can just bring it along and make some money.—
John Smbthurst, 27/9/94.
* * * % *
A N.S.W. country paper asserts that in Penrith
a decent house can be rented for 9d. per week, and that
six-roomed houses are to be had for 2s. 6d. weekly. And
things are much the same in all the more populous
N.S.W. country towns.
“ Dan ton is 34, Robespierre 33, but I am
6000, for I represent Suffering Humanity.”—
Marat, in Hugo's “ Ninety-Three."
Editor Bulletin, —That little Bulletin
paragraph re the fifty-year-old signboard, “J.
Imber, turner of timber, Kent-st., Sydney,” jogs
the memory of many old Sydney boys that Imber’s
tops were equal to the “Tom Mqrriser’s.’’ It is
now 50 years, at least, since I waited under that
ancient sign, talking to Jerry and Bill Imher,
while the old man was turning me a top. Think-
ing of these days brings out my handkerchief.—
Smithers.
“ A Golden Shanty,” by Bulletin writers,
is one of the most striking products of nascent
Australian literature. Its contents are gems of
native lustre, glowing with no borrowed brilliancy.
Their breezy humour, their weird pathos, spring
alike from Southern soil, under a Southern sky,
and their promise is sui generis, unique and
unapproachable. The second edition now ready ;
post-free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d. ;
foreign, Is. 6d.
Amongst Maoriland’s Salvation Army con-
verts is a Frenchman, wont to hold himself up as
a shocking example. One of his latest testi-
monies: “Before I vas converted, murder vas
missing to me. And steal! ze Lord God, I did
steal.” And this, a Maori torn from Satan’s
bosom : “Well, ladies and gentlemen, I’m saved.
But I don’t know about a ticket I’ve got in a
Tattersall’s sweep in Australia. I sent away a
pound for a ticket yesterday, and, if I win, I
think I’ll keep the money, but I’ll give the Army
some.’’ Hallelujah !
For frost-bound impudence, it would be
hard to beat that Sydney wali-advt. that calls
upon the “ Men of Australia ” to “ assist Ireland
by drinking So-and-So’s whisky.” This is the
sort of thing that makes the real live Irishman
want to kick himself for not having been born a
Hottentot. Ireland will never be worth assisting
till she drops the “Please, give me a penny”
whine, and stands right up on her hind-legs to
dance upon the notion that she wants to beg from
the men of anywhere. Of course, it’s himself the
whisky-miller is looking after, but, even at that,
his miserable gag shouldn’t have been possible of
a nation of alleged white men.
Argemone .
By ADAM LANDURY GORDOM
The terrible night-watch is over,
A I turn where I he;
To eastward my dim eyes discover
Faint streaks on the sky ;
•Pnint streaks of a faint light, that dapples
And dawns like the ripening of apples ;
doses with darkness and grapples,
V y And darkness must die.
And the dawn finds us where the dusk found us—
A The quick and the dead ;
Thou dawn-slaying darkness around us,
O, slay me instead !
Thou pitiless earth, that would sever
Our twain souls, uniting them never,
0 gape and engulf me for ever !
’ O, cover my head !
The toils that men strive with stout-hearted,
1 The fears that men fly-
I have known them, but these have departed,
And those have gone by.
Men toiling and straining and striving.
Are glad, peradventure for living ;
I render for life no thanksgiving,
Glad only to die.
Alike now to me are all changes—
Naught gladdens, naught grieve* j
Alike now pale snow on the ranges,
Pale gold on the sheaves ;
Alike now the hum of glad bees on
Green boughs, and the sigh of sad trees <m
Sere uplands, the fall of the season,
The fall of the leaves.
Alike now each wind blows—the breezes
That kiss where they roam ;
The breath of the March wind that freezes
In rime on the loam;
The storm blast that lashes and scourges,
And reaps the white crest of the surges,
And sweeps with a thunder of dirges
Across the sea foam.
Alike now all rainfall and dewfall,
Foul seasons and fair ;
Let the rose on ray path or the rue fall,
I heed not nor care ;
Not for red light of dawn, nor for dun light
Of dusk, nor for dazzle of sunlight
At noon, shall I seek light or shun light,
Seek warmth or shun glare.
Now for breaking of fast neither grateful,
Nor quenching of thirst;
In the dawn or the eventide hateful,
In noontide accursed ;
In the watch of the night, sleep-forsaken,
Till the sleep comes no watch shall awaken—
Be the best things of life never taken,
Nor feared be the worst.
Skies laugh, and buds bloom, and birds warble
At breaking of day ;
Without and within on grey marble
The light glimmers grey.
Ah, pale silent mouth, surely this is
The spot where death strikes and life misses.
Warm lips pressing cold lips, waste kisses,
Clay cold on cold clay.
Through sunset and twilight and nightfall
And night watches bleak
We have lain thus, and broad rays of light fall
And flicker and streak
The death chamber, glancing and shining,
Where death and dead life lie reclining,
My hands with her hands intertwining,
My cheek to her cheek,
I conjure thee by days spent together,
So sad and so few;
By the seasons of fair and foul weather,
By rose and by rue;
By the sorrows and joys of past hours,
By the thorns of the earth and the flowers,
By the suns of the skies and the showers,
By mist and by dew ;
By the time that annihilates all things—
Our woes and our crimes ;
By the gathering of great things and small things
At end of all times ;
Let thy soul answer mine through the portal
Of death, if the soul be immortal,
As wise men of all climes have taught all
The fools of all climes !
If these men speak truth I come quickly,
My life does thee wrong;
Dost thou languish in shades peopled thickly
With phantoms that throng ?
Have they known thee, my love? Hast thou
known one
To welcome the stranger and lone one ?
0, loved one ! O, lost one ! mine own one,
I tarry not long.
The flowers that no more shall enwreath us
Turn sunward, the dove
Turns skyward ; the flowers are beneath us,
The birds are above.
Those skies (an illegible letter)
Seem fairer and farther —scarce better
Thau earth, to men crushed by life’s fetter
When lifeless is love.
And none can live twice, say the heathen,
Am,! none can twice die :
More hopeful than these were are we then
With hopes past the sky?
Yon Judge, will lie swerve from just sentence,
For tardy, fear-stricken repentance?
Ask those who came hither and went hence,
But hope no reply.
And He who shall judge us is mighty—
How then shall I trust
In Him, having sinned in His sight?—He
Is jealous and just.
So priests taught me once ; if their learning
Perplexed, slower still in discerning
Are ashes to ashes returning,
And dust seeking dust.
But the dead—these are tranquil, or seem so;
Nor laugh they nor weep;
And I who rest not, though I dream so,
Ask only their sleep.
I have sown tares and brambles on fickle
False sands, and already my sickle
Has reaped the rank weed and the prickle—
What more shall I reap ?
Can life thrive when life’s love expires?
Are life and love twain ?
Men say so—nay, all men are liars,
Or all lives are vain.
Let our dead loves and lives be forgotten,
With the ripening of fruits that are rotten,
So we, loving fools dust-begotten.
Go dustward again.
Noth.— The above poem was recently published in the
Melbourne Herald. It does not appear in the copyright
edition of the poet’s works, and was probably never
intended for publication as it stands. Several of the
thoughts and rhymes, indeed, have been worked into
better shape ana used for the dedication to “ Bush
Ballads” and elsewhere. In the present version many
obvious misprints have been corrected. Other blots
which the author would doubtless have removed on
revision may be forgotten in the real beauties which
the poem exhibits.
Dear Bulletin, —Re ‘ ‘ tight places. ” Y ears
ago, I had to do a swift journey from an inland
Q. township to a port, and return. On the return
my moke knocked up, and I borrowed a horse
from T. station on the O. river. T. station home-
stead is on the brow of an abrupt hill, overhanging
the river. The house-paddock slip-rail edges a
side-slope leading down to “ the crossing.” When
I had come along a few days before, the O. river
had been “ a banker,” bub my own yarraman was
a veteran swimmer, and we had negotiated the
water capitally. It was my habit with that horse
just to slip the reins (unbuckled, even) under an
armpit (duds rolled and strapped on saddle-
pommel) and go ahead. (I never could manage
swimming horses by the tail.) As the river was
in flood, almost the first question I asked the T.
boss concerning the borrowed horse was—“ Can
he swim?” “Splendidly.” “All right.” As I
was leaving, he said—“ Leave the slip-rails down ;
I want to let the horses to the water.” “Right
you are.” I left the rails down, found the cros-
sing, undressed, strapped my things on the saddle,
armpitted the reins after my own fashion and
waded in. Directly we reached deep water the
T. horse “performed” —broke away, and bolted
up the track, with my clothes on his back. I
raced after him naked-footed and bare-skinned,
but—the panels were down, and he went straight
on and stopped, “end-on,” in front of the dwel-
ling-house verandah. There was nothing else for
it, so I made a sprint for him, trusting to be un-
seen. As I rounded the side of the house and gob
in front of it, Isaw —all the ladies of the station !
However, I made a mad rush into the saddle and
drove my bare heels into the horse’s ribs. He
jibbed awhile, turned teetotum a few times, and
then began to pigjump disgracefully, never leaving
the front of the stage all the time. Finally, he
“slung me,” kicked up his heels, and—well, I
found him two hours afterwards when my back
was one burnt blister. In subsequent journeys, I
made it a point of honor always to pass T. station
in the night.—Yours, The Dipsomaniac.
Characteristi clippings from Oliver Wen-
dell Holmes (who died last week): —
Put not your trust in money; but put your money in
trust.
How many people live on the reputation of the reputa-
tion they might have made 1
The world has a million roosts for a man, but only one
nest.
The mind of a bigot is like the pupil of an eye: the
more light you pour upon it the more it contracts.
Political fire-bugs . . want to substitute the match-
box for the ballot-box.
A woman never forgets her sex. She would rather talk
with a man than an angel, anyday.
Some women-boarders would scold at the angel Gabriel
if he lived in the house with them, and tell him he was
always dropping his feathers around if they couldn’t find
anything else to bring up against him.
A woman fascinates a man quite as often by what she
overlooks as by what she sees.
There are at least three real saints among the women to
one among the men, in every denomination.
The wisest woman that you talk with is ignorant of
something that you know, but an elegant woman never
forgets her elegance.
Dowdyisra is clearly an expression of imperfect vitality.
Intellect is to a woman’s nature what her watch-spring
skirt is to her dress : it ought to underlie her silks and
embroideries, but not to show itself too staringly on the
outside.
Why can’t somebody give us a list of the things that
everybody thinks and nobody says, and another list of
things that everybody says and nobody thinks?
When a strong brain is weighed with a true heart it
seems to me like balancing a bubble against a wedge of
gold.
Isn’t it true that many religious sectaries think of the
last tribunal complacently as the scene in which they are
to have the satisfaction of saying to the believers of a
creed different from their own—“ I told you sol ”
Writes “Pedagogue”: —N.S.W. State
school-teachers have been much blamed of late
for the prevailing system of “cramming” the
pupils under them. But more justly the Education
authorities are to be held responsible for this
obnoxious practice. The school-teachers get good
or bad marks, which tell for or against their
subsequent promotion, according to the attain-
ments of their class at the annual school examina-
tion, and this irrespective of what material, in the
first instance, they may have to work on. It is
but human nature for the teachers to try and
dodge these bad marks, and to do this there is no
alternative for them, on receiving notice of the
Inspector’s intending visit, but to “cram” the
youngsters just beforehand. There is a trick in
every trade and the N.S.W. State school-teachers
have their little trick, of course. They tell the
dunces of the class to hold up their hands, when
the Inspector asks a question, whether they know
the answer or not. The chances are that the
Inspector won’t pick upomthe dunces. The show
of hands impresses him with the class’s supposed
proficiency and the teacher gets good marks
accordingly. But sometimes he does happen to
drop on one of the dunces. Then the youngster
looks reproachfully at his teacher for placing him
in such a fix, and the teacher coughs nervously
and mentally registers six “handers” for the
culprit when the Inspector has gone.


Hordern Brothers, 203-211 Pitt-street
(only), beg to notify the readers of The Bulletin
that they have received their new suitings for
summer wear. Suits from 35s. and 45s. to measure.
Thousands of orders received since starting the
tailoring boom. Patterns and self-measurement
forms sent post free. A nice lot of tweeds, serge,
etc., for boys wear just opened, prices ranging
from Is. 6d. per yard, double width. (Watch this
space for “ Christmas novelty ” advertisements.)
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDOX MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Paulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin : Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
A Voice from the Town .
(A sequel to “ A Voice from the Bush.”)
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I thought, in the days of the droving.
Of steps I might hope to retrace,
To be done with the bush and the roving
And settle once more in ray place.
Wich a heart that was well nigh to breaking
In the long, lonely rides on the plain,
I thought of the pleasure of taking
The hand of a lady again.
I am back into civilisation,
Once more in the stir and the strife,
But the old joys have lost their sensation—
The light has gone out of my life ;
The men of my time they have married,
Made fortunes or gone to the wall;
Too long from the scene I have tarried,
And, somehow, I’m out of it all.
For I go to the balls and the races
A lonely companionless elf,
And the ladies bestow all their graces
On others less grey than myself;
While the talk goes around I’m a dumb one
’Midst youngsters that chatter and prate,
And they call me “ the Man who was Someone
Way back in the year Sixty-eight.”
And I look, sour and old, at the dancers
That swing to the strains of the band,
And the ladies all give me the Lancers,
No waltzes—l quite understand,
For matrons intent upon matching
Their daughters with infinite push,
Would scarce think him worthy the catching,
The broken-down man from the bush.
New partners have come and new faces,
And I, of the bygone brigade,
Sharply feel that oblivion my place is—
I must lie with the rest in the shade.
And the youngsters, fresh-featured and pleasant,
They live as we lived —fairly fast;
But I doubt if the men of the present
Are as good as the men of the past.
Of excitement and praise they are chary,
There is nothing much good upon earth;
Their watchword is nil admirari.
They are bored from the days of their birth.
Where the life that we led was a revel
They “ wince and relent and refrain ”
I could show them the road—to the devil,
Were I only a youngster again.
I could show them the road where the stumps are
The pleasures that end in remorse,
And the game where the Devil’s three trumps are
The woman, the card, and the horse.
Shall the blind lead the blind—shall the sower
Of wind reap the storm as of yore ?
Though they get to their goal somewhat slower,
They march where we hurried before.
For the world never learns—just as we did,
They gallantly go to their fate,
Unheeded all warnings, unheeded
The maxims of elders sedate.
As the husbandman, patiently toiling,
Draws a harvest each year from the soil,
So the fools grow afresh for the spoiling
And a new crop of thieves for the spoil.
But a truce to this dull moralising,
Let them drink while the drops are of gold,
I have tasted the dregs—’twere surprising
Were the new wine to me like the old ;
And I weary for lack of employment
In idleness day after day,
For the key to the door of enjoyment
Is Youth —and I’ve thrown it away.
THE BANJO.
A Third in the Game!
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Penny was a foxy man, under-sized and
lean ; Cassidy—smacking of Hibernia and the sea
—was large and rugged, with an accidentally-
flattened nose.
“ It’s well to be you !” the Irishman growled—
“takin’ it asy on your marrow-bones here, an’—”
“Cooking Cassidy’s dinner for him!”—Penny
ladled a mess of wild-pig into a tin-dish. “Any
colour
The other laid aside a similar dish, smeared
with moist clay—sat down, and gobbled for a
couple of minutes before he answered, “Devil a
colour ! —an’ not likely to be, from what I can
make out. ’Twas a fool’s game cornin’ up here at
all! I don’t b’leeve there’s an ounce of gold
between this an’ Kini Balu !’’
He kept his eyes—shifty, little eyes, at best —
fixed on his provender, and Penny, sucking stolidly
at his pipe, told himself —“He’s a liar! He’s
struck it to-day, right enough, and wants to bluff
me off !” Then Cassidy looked suddenly up and
saw the other’s eyes gleaming like sparks from
under the bushy red eyebrows,
“I was wondering,” Penny said instantly,
“ how you got that stiffener on the nose. Awful
bash it must have been ! ”
■ His readiness served, and Cassidy laughed.
“ Ye may say that, me boy ! Just wait till I’ve
stowed me ballast, an’ I’ll tell ye how ’twas.”
Penny winked, unseen, his further eye, walked
round into a patch of lallang behind the tent, and
came back with a big stone bottle that made the
Irishman’s jaw drop with glad surprise.
“Saints an angels, man ! is that another of
’em ? Sure I thought we had only the wan we
punished last week ! ”
Penny shook the bottle. “There’s about three
pints in it,” he said, “and I was keeping it for a
pinch. But, if we’re going to back down on this
prospecting business, we may as well polish this
off, too—or you, rather. A little goes a long way
with me, as you know.”
Cassidy did know, and rejoiced thereat. Sup-
posing Penny got as far, even, as half-a-pint,
would not he, Cassidy, be still well on the right
side of a quart ? And a quart of arrack was a
drunk for an emperor t At the anticipation the
vox of Mr. Cassidy faucihus adhcesit —he could
only slap Penny ecstatically upon the back.
From the lofty limestone bluff they were camped
on there stretched away before them a shoreless
sea of green that darkened with the distance into
misty purple—the vast untrodden forest of central
Borneo ; a prospect of no more interest than a
brick wall to these two—wrapped each in plans to
circumvent the other. Ami between them stood
the bottle—to the one a foe, to the other an ally.
The red man watched the sun- red, also, as he
neared the end of his vertical arc—until Ids ear
caught that sound of infinite possibilities —the
world-old “gluoketty-glug.” Cassidy was putting
down the bottle, and Penny, as he took it up in
turn, exalted inly at its appreciable loss of weight.
“A few more like that, my friend, and over you
go!” he thought, as his own modest mouthful
reached its destination : “ About your smeller,
now, Peter?” he said, aloud ; and Peter —with a
three-inch clay glowing perilously close to the
organ in question—plunged in :
“’Twas in a Liverpool ship I got me beauty
shpoiled. Rotten ould gear, she had, an’ wan
dirty night the lee fore-brace parted, an’ the
pennant-block .cotch me shlap in the mug, an’
knocked me ”
But Penny, nodding comprehension as he
smoked, cared less for the yarn than for its liberal
punctuation with the so-called “ arrack’’—verit-
ably Java rum, and twice as potent as the real
rice-spirit. The recountant —dramatic after the
jorum—grew jocund with the third, and broke not
unmelodiously forth to the effect that:—
The capten’s on the quarter-deck,
A-walkin’ to an’ fro —oh ;
Then it’s heave away, me jolly boys—
We’re all boun’ to go—o—oh !
“Zook-at-here, Penny, ye mangy little divil!— if
it’s laughin’ at me shong ye are ”
Penny, disclaiming hastily, laughed none the
less, internally; for here, with unexpected celerity,
was that bellicose stage that heralded the maudlin
—premonitory, in its turn, of the desired oblivion.
And, sure enough, by the time the moon stood
broad and crimson over the hazy margin of the
east, the undone Cassidy lay senseless as the vic-
torious bottle by his side.
A quarter-of-an-hour Penny smoked and waited
—then put fresh wood on the fire, came over to
the alcoholic corpse, kicked it roundly in the ribs
—pulled it vigorously by the beard. There was a
gasp in the snoring—no more—and Penny, look-
ing needlessly around, knelt and thrust his hand
into an inside-pocket of the sleeper’s rough woollen
shirt.
“ Small!” he muttered, as he took three little
objects over to the fire. “And a curious kind of
feel—for gold ! Then again he opened his mouth,
but found no exclamation equal to the occasion,
as the firelight showed him that what would have
been insignificantly small for nuggets were of
electrifying magnitude for-diamonds !
Penny had been in South Africa; he knew the
priceless carbon when he saw it, and he trembled
as he gazed—overpowered by the potentiality that
lay concentrated in his palm. For half-a-minute
Cassidy was forgotten ; then Penny, looking
hastily round, saw the sleeper throwing his arms
about as some do on the point of waking. The
other man—a possible murderer only under some
such vast and sudden pressure—thrust the stones
into his pocket, rushed into the tent for his rifle,
and stood there—-an impending death ! —till Cas-
sidy began to snore again. The other then-
sweat streaming from his forehead—took Cassidy’s
shot-gun, sent it whirling over the cliff, belted on
a parang, slung his haversack and cartridges,
picked up his rifle again, and scrambled away
among the rhododendrons.
» • »
There is no harder ground to get over than
that of the Bornean jungle-tree so laced to tree
with everything vegetable that creeps, or climbs,
or twists, that nearly every step means hard work
with the parang. Even the Dyaks—the best users
of the best chopping-instrument in the world
would hardly have persevered upon the line Penny
had taken—heading for the Shobang River.
Starting with break of day it was noon before he
reached the sluggish tributary that was to guide
him to the mightier Kapuas.
He cooled his aching hands in the water. “Now
for a bit of a raft,” he thought. “The rest is
easy as kiss-your-hand! ” A dozen miles, at
least, ho thought he had hewed out of the stubborn
jungle, but he hadn’t covered half that distance.
And he didn’t know—unversed in Bornean wood-
craft—that what makes the track so cruelly hard
for Number One makes it plain and easy for
Number Two. So he started up, astounded, when
he heard the dry sticks snapping to a hasty foot,
and saw, where the jungle thinned out towards
the bank, a wild-eyed figure frothing at the mouth.
Cassidy, starting three hours later, had tailed him
up already, and Penny, in panic, threw up his
piece and—missed !
Then the other was upon him, and over the two
rolled upon the bank—the thief dragging vainly
at his parang—the robbed throttling him with
fierce but uncertain hands. But for the re-acting
alcohol, in fact, it would have been all over in a
jiffy with Penny—as it was, he hailed the water
as salvation when, with a rousing splash, they
plumped headforemost into the river. Cassidy
let go; to drown the man would be to lose the
diamonds, after all! So he scrambled out, and
reached a hand to help his precious foe. But
then a third party—scared somewhat by the
initial splash—recovered confidence, came over
with a swirling rush, and grabbed Penny by the
ankle.
“Don’t let go!” he shrieked to Cassidy—“for
God’s sake, don’t let go !”
And Cassidy held on—not for God’s sake—but
for the diamonds’. Crooking one arm about a
nipastem, he gave a pull that gained an inch or
two, but then the crocodile, tugging in his turn,
dragged Penny clean away from the bank and the
other with hirm Then, with his prey, the reptile
sank, until Cassidy, still holding on for dear dia-
monds, was dragged under water in his turn.
Then he let go—half-drowned !
• * *
Unto the Resident of Pontianak there
appeared one day a weird adventurer with a wild
story of diamond-finding. The old gentleman
smiled, and asked for particulars. Then he smiled
again, and asked for specimens, and, when he
heard what had become of them, smiled more than
ever, and had Mr. Cassidy deported as a “dotty ”
and undesirable denizen of Dutch territory.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.


T
Business Announcement.
ONE POUND
POST FREE
THE WATCH FOR
DIGGER
THE WATCH FOR
BUSHMEN
THE WATCH FOR
EVERYBODY
{Thi Ills Kijte wile
ONE POUND!
lie King of Timekeepers
The works of a watch are its
chief essential. The works of
the Apex watch equal in all
regards these of high-class silver
and gold watches costing from
£7 to £l5.
The untarnishable case of the
Apex Watch is of nickel,
beautifully engine- turned, with
star and garter. .No more elegant
or compact watch can be bought
lor money.
The Apex Watch is a keyless
short-winder ; ten turns wind it
for 24 hours. The keyless work
is extra strong, with safety barrel.
The watch is thoroughly regu-
lated and timed for immediate
use, and will last as long, with
even the roughest wear, as any
watch for which you pay 20 times
the money.
BEAUCOURT, FRANCE;
One Pound sent to the Beau-
court Watch Co., Box 6 8 6, General
Post Office, Sydney (when notes
are sent, letters must be regis-
tered), will secure delivery by
registered parcel post of one
Beaucourt Watch at any address
in Australasia.
Reference —Manager, Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney,
[When ordering, mention The Bulletis.l
Medical.
The First Step
FOE
NERVOUS MEN
APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. HflL PEEEY^
75 Phillip-St., SYDNEY.
PARKE & LACY CO. L . td
SYDNEY,
Mining and Hydraulic Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
INQERSOLL ROCK DRILLS and AIR COMPRESSORS, KNOWLES’ PUMPS,
GATES and DODGE ROCKBREA K KRS,
HUNTINGDON MILLS, STAMPER BATTERIES,
CHALLENGE ORE REEDERS, ERUE TANNERS; COOKE AMALGAMATORS.
ENGINE FITTINGS, MILL SUPPLIES, Etc., Etc.
Reduced Prices.
Challenge Ore Feeders, £35. Frue Fanners, £lOO.
3
V
%
mm
4 S>
A
/
ffjsj aiArg I^af
•*% %f'ij fjy £?d ?"
( spos% you iicujti^h/aryed^
MANUFACTURED BY THE
NEW YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO CO.,
ClevelandL Street, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Early Days’
-);(-
Bound in Boards, 2s. 4d.; Cloth, 2s. 10d., post paid.
-):(
“Bulletin.” Office, Sydney.
Medical.
Marvellous Cure for INFLUENZA, COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS and CHEST COMPLAINTS.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Sold everywhere.
SEE YOU GET
MANHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND D/GOR RESTOREL
In Four Weeks ■ the use of
(Registered)
g
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY,
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughput, the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 06s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Perry & Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
Medical.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. £ *7' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the and Life,
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
W/I
ows
s»
EMBROCATIO^i
till 35
/'•I
SOLO
EVERYWHERE
ĝ
“ Men I Have Smiled With.”
W
E STAY at 33 niton’s,
\M>jxiLST;no^s
MARYBOROUGH.
Blue’s Melbourne Hotel is still to the fore, and
in the same hands.
F
OR TARIFF AND TABLE
Dent's Exchange Hotel, Townsville,
Cannot be Licked.
T
HE QUEEN’S HOTEL (BEACH),
TOWNSVILLE,
Leads, Competition Follows.
“our HOME.”
JE, Milverton,
DAY DAWN HOTEL,
Townsville.
Pointers
Youb Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
(Largest Seating Accomodation in Queensland. )
Next Gough’s Excelsior Hotel.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box (or bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, s urvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bjing sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
nifferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
oe found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
Dring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes ifled
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecharo’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy tor Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, «fcc., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
NOW READY.
SSCOMO EDITION
OK
“A Golden Shanty.’


EPPS’S
GRATEF QL—COMFORTING
COCOA
Let It be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT—
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Sole Mamifacturer
OP THE
CELEBRATED
LION "
J s
-
TRADEMARK
BRAND
Confectionery .
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
fjjTALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
ğ
MANUFACTURERS OP
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
CUTIjERY of every description.
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW ROOMS > y
Empire Chambers,
93 York Street, SYDNEY,
“ The Bloclc,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
HELIDON SPA WATER
■ ; *
Is a Natural Table Water.
TO BE OBTAINED AT ALL THE PRINCIPAL HOTELS AND CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
the sea-water swimming
and HOT BATHS,
400 PITT STREET (C I T "ST),
Are now conducted by J. & J. WALKER, of Park-street.
Each Bath 100 X 40, supplied with Pure Sea-water DAILY, by contract with City Council.
First Bath, 6d. Second Bath, 4d.
OPEN—S.3O A.M. TILL 9 P.M,
‘The Last of Si*;’
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price: Is.
Posted to any Australasian Address, 1/3
.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE COMPANY
25 HARBOUR STREET,
135 KING STREET,
(LIMITSID),
92 KING STREET,
23 ROYAL ARCADE,
MILK
OKEAM
ICE
FOR
BUTTER
EISH
ETC., ETC., ETC.
GAME
POULTRY
PASTRY
Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney.
H. PATESON, Manager.
Canadian
CLUB
Whisky.
LU»
m*scr
m
WAN
8 8 5
Iy. tt *U</ lt c££wtfy
6nrfvuo
HARROLD BROTHERS, Agents,
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
THE “PAMKLAST" CRUSHER.
No. 1. Invaluable to Prospectors, Assayers
and Mine Managers.
No. 2. Power Machine will crush 2 to 3 cwt.
per hour with 2-horse motive-power.
The simplest end most perfect Crushers made.
iSit Large numbers in use throughout Australia*
The BEITANNIA OIL ENGINE.
The best type in the market.
Its distinguishing features are Simplicity, Low
Cost, Economy in Wor king. Great Power for its
Size and Weight.
Diatomite Boiler Covering 1 .
The best Non-conducting Material extant for
Roofing or any other purpose.
Send for Catalogues.
N. GUTHRtDGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
482 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
TALES
—OF THE—
SYSTEM.
Price : One Shilling.
4 .
A GOLDEN SHANTY
g
REFRIGERATION.
WE oan SUPPLY REFRIGERATORS from the smallest to
the largest requirement, suitable for DRY COLD STORAGE
ROOMS, BUTCHERS, DAIRY FACTORIES and ICE FACTORIES.
Simple in construction, cheap to run, efficient and economical.
LAVAL and ALPHA CREAM SEPARATORS,
And all DAIRY MACHINERY REQUIREMENTS.
00,000 LAVAL SEPARATORS in JOAILV USE.
Capacity from 12 to 60 gallons per hour for hand-power, and
100 to 300 gallons for steam-power. Prices, UlO upwards.
Using a poor Cream Separator means great annual loss in
money returns. Several factories having discovered this have
put in separators, so, as to gel the greatest possible
amount of Latter out of the milk, and with the least working
expenses.
Portable, Marine and Stationary Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps and other machinery.
WAUGH & JOSBPHSON, General Engineers,
343, 344, 346 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
ĝ
The IMPERIAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYD3STEY
(Established over Thirty Years).
The most Homely, Comfortable and Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tariff, 10s. 6d. per Day. walter si d n ey. Manager^.
, * cmmmm
COOPER’S.
The World’s SHEEP HIP.
Sheep-owners should use this grand DIP if
they wish to rank well on the list of prices.
Cooper Dipped Sheep Lead Everywhere.
Chicago Exhibition, —They secured 330 PREMIUMS (more than all the other
Proprietary Dips put together).
Australian Sheep Breeders’ Show, Aug., 1894.—They secured 58 AWARDS in
the Merino classes (including 1 GRAND CHAMPION and 6 CHAM-
PIONS) out of a possible 128 Awards.
Eoyal Agricultural Show of England, at Cambridge, June, 1894:- — They
secured 86 AWARDS (including 2 CHAMPIONS) out of a possible 139
Awards and 2 Champions. At this Show 67 Breeders exhibited, over 40 of
whom advise they used our Dip.
Sydney Sales of Tasmanian Merino Stud Sheep> 1894 —Over four-fifths of the
sheep catalogued were Cooper-Dipped.
Used on over 100 million shoep annually
The wool from sheep treated with it tops
the market wherever it is sold.
Ne e w e s a outh < wales 1 : } Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd.
Wm. Cooper & 3NT epliews
63 JPitt Street, SYDNEY.
