

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
p'
Parsons 3 Flaked Oatmeal
R. G. WATKINS «$& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tT*.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
37
T:
4>
y>
So
o
o
o
<Pack'aJocK^
♦JB-Si
o
c*
C
o
o
-4
v
IS. A, HervfV, Agent, Fitt-Bt., Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON 8c SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. \V. Huff, the Bail of Jersey,
Lord Caring ton, etc.,
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
| SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING and HAND BAGS. etc.
A Single A tide Sold at Wholesale P.ice.
Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
:V ■ Railway Station or Port.
m
rx.
oJL2
?H6
111
Mlu
* -
Tlie Oxford XZotel, Hlixig Street, Sydney.
H, THORL’E ... ... ... ... Pbofrietob.
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
Duff, K.C.M.G.
-THE-,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
<LIMITED>
FOR
CRSiAM ..
HE
111 t TER
FISH
GAME ..
I‘OILTKV
IM.-sTKV, Ac.
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exiju site.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Fowltry, Fastry,
Sydney, Ist July, 1593.
etc.
11. IMTE-OV,
Manager.
770U/KiAd
/
J, «S& o. HOWARD.
Sole Agents in 3XTe-w Soutb Wales f->r Messrs. Clayion ea-aaci Suuttleworth.
—THE—
Oldest Plough-makers
In the World.
THE SUILDEHS
OK THIS
First Iron Plough in ths World.
We have a reputation for Plough-
all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
which is not to be equalled by any
of the younger and less experienced
firms.
COW £RNOR STE£RAC£ PLOUGH
L
-THE—
Howard Digging Plough*
TKe most perfect Cultivator
; tt m ade.
To be had " descriptions.
ALL CLASSES
—©F —
Agricultural Implements
and MACUISEBV.
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely-extended SHOW-
ROOM*.
J. & O. Howard, 203 & 2801 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 14. —No. 7 4'J J
[Saturday, May 5, 1894.
Registered Az . General Post OSoe, Sydney, for Transnrssion by Post as a Newspaper.


Medical.
STOP THAT COUGH!
TAKE
m
(Registered)
Certain Curb for
COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all
THROAT and CHEST COMPLAINTS.
Is. £>d. and 2s. 6d. Sold everywhere.
[Please mention this paper.]
Wholesale : 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
r ATKISSSOSY’S^
WHITE BOSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANQIPAHME
ESS. '8&11QU&T
STEPHANQTIS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for" their
strength and nal ural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
GAUTMH ! —Only fjemiine with shield-
shape bite and yellow label and usual
\ Trade Mark -a “ White Hose” /
and address in lull. JO.
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness* Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.VV.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
I the stonKbch, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizzmess, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep; frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
,first dose will give
in twenty minutes. Every
is earnestly invited to try one box of these
a, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
w a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring- about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
irgans in the, human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the: ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the hitman frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of .all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills 'have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham*s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
ind Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
mil difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkbgitam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. (containing 56 pills), and at
Ss. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
ive ry where.
H.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
ifW - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof theso, grand medicines have not been
recognised .by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
reco -nised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. .Manu-
factured only at 78 Sew <)xkokd-st., London, {e" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 5*23 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourions
&
s
(§MI
m
a.
%
1
WoiudnpJl i'k z to BE ;/v it
MANUFACTURED BY THE
,v/; w YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO CO.,
£3 "treses'!;, S‘3£TIII>3XriHS'Sr.
Medical.
The First Step
• FOR
NERVOUS MEN
as- APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. BE. PERRY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” — Chas. H. Piessb,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F. 0.5., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
J\r A IV H o O I).
HEALTH. SIKTSCTH .:S!< t'IGOR RESTORE!.
In Four M eeks by ike use 0/
O' 3 R. * CORDS
tS s£^ E Q? u if fc;
The only Infallible Remedy-for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter ot a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to’the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the. human Jrame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free oh receipt oj stamped addressed
mV liZts for Australasia— Perry A Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales-VV. 11. Soul &Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ows
R
EMBROCATIONvCi ]Am
»/
mm
SOLD fM
EVERYWHERE
W>
m
Medical.
UPP
Sjd/ANIC Cha\h BgS
oQJ?
r
*0'
mm
SS THIS.
What even one sojh is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
TIB KRUPP GALVANIC BELT,
All agree in prosing that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical App.ia'uces. For Rheumatism it is mi-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened afnd the Debi-Rated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is ah
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is
Guaranteed to Absolutely Cure
completely and lastingly, the following complaints:—!
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pa ins in the Bark and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Com-
plaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout. In-
digestion, Asthma, Files, Epilepsy Spcrma'orrlum,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation,
Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sejees- therefor*, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USE-
LESS DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is
acknowledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians
to be the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and
Sexual Diseases, and the thousands of teslimoni Is re-
ceived by the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages
throughout Australasia prove the unquestionable curative
properties of Electricity as applied by the appliance above
referred to. Our confidence in this appliance is so
complete, that , ji
We Send the Belt Out on Trial,
and guarantee to give perfect satisfaction. For full par-
ticulars as to terms, &0., send for our large illustrated
treatise, FREE, in which these Belts are fully illustrated,
the action of Electricity on the nervous system explained,
and a lot of useful information on nervous and sexual
diseases given. Tins tn atise also contains, facsimile of
testimonials received from some of our clients who have
tried our Belts. The originals of these testimonials pro-
duced 011 application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt ana
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor . .. Carl Krupp.
Business Manager A. W. Courtnkv.
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT CO.,
BOX 647, G.P.0., SYDNEY, X.S.W.
Rernember—The K.G. Chain Belt is easy to wear, is
ent on approval, and the first cost is the only cost.
IF’rcso
Arp, to be found in the “Light and Life,
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sera
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S, WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d,
The Bulletin
(Published at SYONEY, N.S.W.)
The Unlpue Weekly— Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“Tlxe Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only 'payer which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy,
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government).
One 1 erson, one Vote.
Comnlete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A I nited Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System - one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life.
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called ‘f nobility. ’
’ n >., , *•'
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
Ire Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless hews paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have ufiavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured' to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-’
merciai success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bur>
letin continues the one -phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their' buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently' Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among-
secular newspapers in advocating the, Irish-
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress ; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clahns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aerainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly .
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maori land
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication, and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of-The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The*Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to he addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Kditorial communi .
ations to be addressed to <l. F. ARCHIBALD.


Medical.
§
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine Sc Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
“nervous a, SKIN COMPLAINTS,"
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions ; —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver.lndigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe ail symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, tree
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of !
send the necessary rem dies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate ease of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
(l avours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Vinds with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
X am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Charge NT othing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Vin6s for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Honrs of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p-m.; 3 p.tn. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications /
Dr. JJECKELL -VIKTESS,
112 Phillip Street. Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
INTO
Fay.
Cur e,
tnnw
ELECTR °’ G^i2&BEL? Ry
m
THIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
1 cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
lowever caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
ioothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
ill WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
f'ou. If it does not we will promptly return the full
imoimt paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. - Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
sail and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
snd price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers. 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
after
21 DATS.
BEFORE
TAKING,
NERVITA
CURES IN 21 DAYS
DEBILITY.
In all stages, Despondency, I
Bashfulness, &c., &c., how-
i ever caused, never returns. I
THOUSANDS have proved that the only REMEDY
to effect a quick permanent cure_ is NERVITA, the
21 days’ cure, forwarded by mail in plain package to
any address. Price, 21 SHILLINGS. Why pay more I
NERVITA REMEDY AGENCY, Box 399, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Oentrally-
eituated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. G-ISBOT«JS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the felonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
•yOUKTG 3VTES3XT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing ; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart ; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WOEK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
X3EBX3L-XTY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, .if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DES PA Tit,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed b>y Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Gases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(Two doors from Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Publications.
ROBERTSON AND COMPANY,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE, and LONDON.
NEW BOOKS.
Two Shilling Novels, picture boards, posted two and fonr-
penoe:
Gunter, a Princess of Paris
Sims, (G.R.), My Two Wives
Warden, A Wild Wooing
Linton, The One Too Many
Fane, Helen Davenant
Kpps (William), Land System* of
Auatralssla
Todd, Parliamentary Government In
British Colonies'
Crockett (S. It.), The Ha-dc-nt, a
Scotch Historical Novel..
Ditto, ditto ditto, cloth
Crockett (S. R.), TheStlcklt Mininter,
new edition
Ditto, ditto ditto, cloth
Koftei and HuUrer'sSewage Disposal
In U.H
Loul*. Gold Milling .. ..
A Policy of Free Exchange ..
Olfphant, Mr*., Lady William, a
Novel
Ditto, ditto, ditto, cloth
Steel (Flore Annie), From the Five
Rivera: Indinn Tales
Tolstoi, The Kingdom of God
Ditto, ditto, ditto, cloth .. .,
aiholns, Economics of Commerce
Mltford, The King’s Assegai..
Medical Annual, 1894
Moskolyne, Sharps and Flats
Besant. and Rice, Sir Richard Whit-
tington
Antipodean, 1894
Moderator's Address, 1894 ..
lie Lissa, Companies’ Work and
Mining Law
Gibson, Ifonbark Chips and Stock-
whip Cracks
Tucker (Rev. Horace), The Now
Arcadia
Goldsmith (Henry), our Alms. ,,
MTver, Neuroornia
Waning, Tab s of the Parly Days ..
Ditto, ditto, ditto, cloth
Town Hail, Sydney: Steel Eograv-
wig, by Daniel Forties .
Majernni (Signora), A Living
Statue
8s fid posted 8s lOd
g
WHAt!
cupiw
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom .”
Price, 1/6 ; post tree.
“Rush for tlie
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Bvrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Besant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
__ Shipping.
England via America
' by tbd
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Branch Passenger Office,
Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
MESSAGERIES_MARITIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON: £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their lugsrage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N. B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
-yjiyEST AUSTRALIAN GOLDFIELDS.
COOLGARDIE and THE MURCHISON.
The Adelaide Steamship Company’s Fine
Steamers leave Sydney WEEKLY. Best accora-
modation and Lowest Fares. Apply
G. S. YUILL & Co.,
17 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BBiOU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS,
SOLD in PARIS by
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
fa SPE£
a 9
HO
st .,WYNYARDS QUa*£
*y.
V
p, O. BOX 920.
Qualified Specialist In the Diseases of
MEN
Nervous, chronic, skin,
and Special diseases of.
Treated with guaranteed success. Weak-
nesses removed and life made worth living
for. Fits, Bladder, and Kidney troubles
cured. Yigor, health, and manhood restored
WOMEN,
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle aged, and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire con-
fidence and success.
All Consultations Free, and Curable Cases guaranteed.
ViffOr Pills for lost vitality, debility and
weaknesses. 55., or 21s. for 5 boxes.
Female Pills for irregularities and obstruc-
tions. 10s. & 20s. per box. Guaranteed O.K.
LEPROSY,
, , uw H sr.olna (lancers Ulcers, Scales, Itch, Smallpox, Measles, Blotches, Scurvy,
Scrofula, Eczema, ’ . g j- ou i s ores Gravel, Low Spirits, Swelling, Nervousness,
Pimples, Freckles, Gr °S , , tv- ’ Kidney and Liver Complaints, Headache, Jaundice,
Urinary Difficulties, Brig p a lnitations Worms Fits, Piles, St. Vitus’s Dance, Typhoid and
Biliousness, In( |^? S r S‘® n^. ronch itis Consumption, Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Lum-
SgoTchMaint Chapped Hands,’Ringworm, Scaldhead, Dandruff, Barber’s Rash, and all other
Blood and Skin Diseases
, , , o and Permanently Cured by Dr. KOCH’S non-mercurial,
Guaranteed to be Speeddy Tmnurities from the Blood, Bones, and Flesh. It destroys the
Infallible Remedy. ex P. jP CleanseB , Heals, and Beautifies the Skin, and restores the
Microbes cr Germs < ? fa . fc]y j fc hag comp i e tely cured numerous sufferers after they were turned
HAIR quickly and luxuna y. emotion should be neglected, as Asiatics have spread
LEiKUbx ana Colonial doctors don t understand LEPROSY, hence the
T°A their hapless LEPER patients. Dr. KOCH’S wonderful
LAZZAREiiUist marvelloua skin.deansing Solution, are only obtainable direct from us.
Blood Purifier, and h directions 10/6, 21/-, 42/-, 84/-; carnage free throughout the
Unobservable packages h| U.d Compla i nfcs 14/- 21/-, 42/-, 84/-, carria ? e
colonies, 13/-, 20/-, . ? 'I . 48/- 90/-. Parcels of either Blood Purifier, or Skin
free throughout the glomes fc the wfcnSs 5P.0. orders must accompany orders.
Mut'on 4/-; pos. e, oolong ORANQS BUTTER CO.,
SYDNEY, «te A„,.rala,i m


Petty’s Family Hotel* Sydney*
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Is UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Barge, well-ventilated Bedrooms,
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladies' & Gentlemen's Dining Sc Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS,
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’Hote as preferred, at ve«v
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
■ Mrs. GANNON.
Business Announcements.
Manufacture
HATS III,
‘ -OF
Mercer^
PRIDDY’S
HATS
nt on co
PROOIiAIM
tub
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
"W orld-renowned !
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s,,
AND 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
Bank of Van Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION.
grand Tottery
Conducted by GEO. ADAMS (“Tattersall’s”) as Sole Agent. )
300,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 372 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
-A-PPly Early.
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Xjim.it etl,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gras Eingiues,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
£*j- Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
A merican Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Specialarrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over joo Apart-
ments and are highly reconunended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, ire., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. %
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THK
* Plum ’
Sfj pi
THE
‘Plum*
/''i ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to give our celebrated Plum
VJT Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
!1 ■ ' •
Price
.a'.l "
j Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2ls.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Kents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
Fire Mis Us at Lowest Mates,
ĝ
Head Offices ;
-95-
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL,
£190,000 .
c.-
< ACT
/ Directors:
/ Hon. JOHN SEE,
/ M.P.,
a a Colonial Treasurer
a* {Chairman),
y Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
V* M.L.C.,
4
y JAMES P. GARYAN, Esq., M.P.,
y PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq.. J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
STATIONERS’ HALL CO.
(C. E. FULLER & CO.)
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d.
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, good quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good quality, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.
OFFICE APRON PILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each.
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographic Pens, 2s. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from 3Jd., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price ; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, More. Leather, from fid.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONERS' HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
385 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
Fob Cash.
4s. in the 4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
For Cash.
DISCOUNT
For Cash.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
Banking*
-THE
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Buanches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can he ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
mHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
* (limited).
Head Office-Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ~ £30»,«A0
RESERVE LIABILITY .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND 23,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Hanh of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid-up .. £200,000.
Reserve Liability .. 250,000.
Head Otlice - r i aL> ane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Medical.
TEETH.-A COMPLETE SET. ONE
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, nainlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY. —The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
BE. HA C K ETT writes : “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post, free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m,
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &e
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
Wholesale by
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney.
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney.
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
P. BUTCHER, Sydney.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney.
HOLDSWORTH, M'PHERSON & CO., Sydney.
MASSEY & CO,
MANUFACTURERS,
740 George Street, Sydney,
FACTORY, YOUNG, N.S.W.
WHY WALK WHEN YOU CAN RIDE
Our NEW DEEKEOOT BUGGY is Substantial. Neat,
Durable, Graceful and Comfortable, and the
Price, complete with SHAFTS, STORM APRON,
WRENCH, etc.
Without Hood £l4 O 0
With Hood .. £l7 10 O
We pack these Buggies in cases without any extra
charge.
Price is 1&r Right.
HOLDS TWO PASSENGERS
Comfortably, and RUNS as SMOOTH as
A TALE OF LOVE.
I
The Body is 54 inches long, 26 inches wide, and
7 inches deep; Width of Track, 5 feet 2 inches.
WE DEFY COMPETITION. Write us for particulars.
James Martin & Co., Sydney
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Go.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
We are just OPENING UP a splendid assortment of WINTER GOODS— Tweeds, Serges and
Viennas, in all Shades and Patterns.
Tweed Sac Suit (to measure) 45/ - .. .. Trousers, 12/6
Serge „ „ 50/- .. Trousers, 15/-
Corkscrew „ (Coat & Vest bound) 50/- .. Trousers, 16 6
Country Customers please WRITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS. Carriage
Paid to any part of the Colony.
LONDON S MELBOURNE TAILORING CO.,
S. M. BAUM ASHE. Manager.) 31 ERSKINE STREET.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol- 14-80.n2.
SATURDAY, MAY 5, 1894.
Price, 6d.
FAT MAN COMES DOWN.
"Ex-Premier M'Ilwraith, of Queensland, is undergoing Dr. Schwoniger’s cure for corpulence. Dr. Schweniger is Prince Bismarck's medical adviser."-CABLE.
I /s . fa/'yau 7
j/oa. //ff/yJfry ya
yajy'y/yyw yawff/sy*
Vf/s c/./tC'*'
"/>yyjfirfr&iy
astc/ fay
tfassa^i
/?0 /A eo.cty Q)~o//c/ h'yrf) 5
S'* 6uf~/"«f~ P a/ ~ ,
/> /*> *
' /? * y 7t~ST <2/>os/~/e sf
O-'pd yo« f<ij | S
y ? <S
Sa.k /fat
ct,.. '5
* &✓ &x %* r a 1
/ftusf \
at 4*st -rffy*
■ft fast, falfc* %
*='
A- f
"/% V jzk / aporftr s/b ? c
CLhcJ J T nraulcf *f°
B7acfr l&6or.


The Bulletin
I’he National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 012 6
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin OflJ.ce Ttventy
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
h ire Tun Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
'! his offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
tn the hands of our carriers, ivith whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
L ter ary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—~
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing ivith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
I ngth, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, ‘Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
conun unications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specif ed and stamps are enclosed.
But ipe desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
afterthe arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: 11. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interi rovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. ll 'ales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d,
added for postage.
A o papers will be sent unless the subscription bepre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, MAY 5, 1894.
Judge Madden on Suicide.
The other day Providence favoured Chief
Justice Madden, of Victoria, with an oppor-
tunity to add his quota of foolishness to the
endless discussion on the moral aspect of
suicide, and—to his discredit be it said—he
availed himself of the opportunity to the
uttermost. That is to say, he was as
callous, as heartless, and as unfeel-
ingly orthodox as the occasion could
possibly require. The victim on whom he
discharged bis eloquence was a poor, broken-
down wretch with no money, no employ-
ment, and no earthly prospect of either,
and with a wife and family as hungry and as
wretched as himself. The sight of their
misery and the burden of his own preyed on
his mind until at last he attempted to end
his troubles by suicide, and his failure in
this enterprise furnished Chief Justice
Madden with a chance to get some loose
eloquence off’ his chest at a suffering
fellow-creature’s expense. There was no
vestige of sympathy about the highly-paid
and well-fed autocrat on this occasion. He
reproached the crushed and broken-down
offender for cowardice, for committing a
crime against the State, against society, and
against the poor, old, blue-moulded deca-
logue ; and for heartlessness in attempting
to desert the wife and family who looked to
him for support. Then, to make dead sure
that he wouldn’t have any chance to support
them, he sent him to gaol for three mouths,
and with this amazing non sequitur the pro-
ceedings terminated.
• # •
The Bulletin does not wish to describe
Chief Justice Madden as a fool, though, in
the present instance, he succeeded in making
of himself a tolerab y good imitation of one ;
bo far as it can read his character, he is
merely a narrow - minded and miserably
ordinary and self-sufficient Pharisee, with no
sympathies worth mentioning, and no
soul for anything beyond the scanty
limits of the shallowest of conven-
tionalism. Yet his assumptions are all
bo glaringly wrong, and his assertions
so glaringly erratic that even his peculiarly
hideous brand of orthodoxy can hardly
suffice to account for them. In all his
oration there was not one statement that
could bear ordinary investigation —save only
the final assertion that the prisoner would
be gaoled for three months. To begin at
the very beginning, it has never yet been
proved, even on the narrowest scriptural
basis, that suicide is a crime. The decalogue
says, “Thou shalt not kill it does not say,
“Thou shalt not die.” There is not in the
whole Scripture one distinct or definite
statement, either in condemnation of the
suicide or otherwise; the whole of the
allegedly inspired books on which Judge
Madden’s creed is based leave him absolutely
alone. Therefore, any Judge or other indi-
vidual who heaves the authority of Holy
Writ at the head of the unsuccessful suicide
is a sacrilegious person, and one who speaks
in the name of a God of his own manufac-
ture, and without authority.
* * *
In the second place, the alleged offence
against the State is as absurd as the alleged
offence against the decalogue. The State,
according to Judge Madden, has special need
of every citizen, and he who leaves it need-
lessly through the gates of death is a wrong-
doer and a public enemy. The State, in
this particular instance, is obviously the one
which the prisoner lived in, for it is the
only one which could be injured by his
death. And if the man who attempts to
leave it needlessly by suicide deserves three
months in gaol for his effort to deprive the
country of his services, how much gaol, in
Judge Madden’s opinion, should be served
out to the man who leaves, quite as unneces-
sarily, by the P. and O. steamer ? Provided
this latter individual doesn’t intend to come
back, he inflicts exactly the same loss and
injury upon the State as does the suicide,
and if Mr. Madden’s logic is correct then
he also should get three months’ imprison-
ment at the lowest estimate. In fact, he
should get much more, for whereas the
suicide leaves generally under pressure of
the direst misery, the fatted saloon passen-
ger of the luxurious Orient or M.M. liner
leaves under no pressure at all.
* • »
But Mr. Madden’s logic, as it happens, is
not correct; instead, it is absurdly inaccurate,
and foolish to boot. The State doesn’t want
the man whom hunger drives to self-destruc-
tion. It refuses to find him work at a time
when work in the ordinary channels is abso-
lutely unattainable. If refuses to find him
food without working. It supplies his land-
lord with special and extraordinary facilities,
such as no other creditor possesses, for
seizing his clothes and furniture and throw-
ing him and his family into the streets. It
provides policemen for the purpose of arrest-
ing him for being in the streets after he is
thrown out. It maintains the right of
private property in land, whereby he can be
arrested for being anywhere else than in the
streets. It moves him on perpetually. It
erects signs telling him to keep off the grass.
It jjuts him in gaol for not having any money
and when he comes out it puts him in gaol
again for still not having any money. Then
when he comes out once more it puts him in
gaol some more for continuing not to have
any money. After that, if it finds him with
any money, it probably gaols him for
“ having property in his possession reason-
ably supposed to be stolen,” on the ground
that he is an old and hardened offender.
If it wants a little variety it arrests him
again, whenever it finds him anywhere at
all, for “being a suspected person.” In
short, the State doesn’t want him ; it only
wants to get rid of him. It wants to get
rid of him so badly that, if properly ap-
proached, it will generally give him a railway-
pass to the border and help to shove him
across. But if it finds him trying to get rid
of himself it gives him three months in gaol
for endeavouring to get away, and ad-
monishes him about the sinfulness of trying
to leave a country which won’t let him stay
on any account whatever.
• * #
Moreover, the old wheeze about the
“cowardice” of the suicide is so utterly
played out that a man with education enough
and intelligence enough to be a Chief Justice
should be ashamed to disturb the ancient gag
in its lonesome resting-place. Suicide, in a
sane person, is a proof, not of cowardice but
of courage of a very high order. The
instinct of self-preservation is so profound
that even among the most miserable—among
those to whom life holds out no visible in-
ducements whatever—it requires stupendous
courage to take the final leap in the dark,
and end the tragedy. The world recognises
this when it weeps maudlin tears over the
memory of Tryon, who suicided by going
down voluntarily with his sinking ship ;
over Gordon seeking for a useless and need-
less death at Khartoum; over Richard
Grenville, who attempted to blow up
his fated vessel to avoid capture ; over
Van Tromc, when he threw a lighted
match into the powder-magazine of
the Brederode, and sent 400 men into the
upper air ; over every hero, in fact, who
ever suicided or attempted to suicide in a
burnished uniform, amid a gorgeous razzle-
dazzle of smoke and flame and picturesque
magnificence generally. And the sane man
who placidly saws his own throat with a
blunt dinner-knife, with no excitement to
keep him up, no glory, no picturesqueness
of detail, needs as much courage as the best
of them. The coward is not the man who
suicides, but the one who remains alive. It-
requires no courage at all tq remain alive,
and any person of ordinary intelligence who
seriously considers the class of men who are
alive will find good evidence to this effect.
* # #
The Bulletin’s opinion on the subject of
self destruction may be summed up in a few
sentences. Suicide is not contrary, in any
sense whatever, to the scriptural law. It
ought not to be contrary to any other law.
The right to die at will is the absolutely
inalienable privilege of humanity at large,
and every person who has courage enough to
kill himself has a right to do so should he see
fit. So very small a proportion of sane
humanity has the necessary courage that the
privilege of dying at will is never likely to be
abused. And, apart from the question of
Mr. Madden’s logic, which is infamously
foolish, there is a sentimental aspect to the
case of which even that absolutely unsenti-
mental Judge may possibly have a glimmer-
ing perception. To the world at large it is
an utterly loathsome thing to see a fatted
dignitary—a well-victualled patron of prize-
fights—with a large salary, and a sumptuous
home, and a colossal pension provided for his
latter years, and no need to take any thought
for the morrow—a smug individual full of rich
food and comfortable drink and costly cigar-
smoke —sitting in judgment on a hungry,
homeless, hopeless wretch to whom life holds
out not one single inducement, and cursing
him by the God of the Pharisees because he
is not cheerful and contented under his
afflictions.
* » •
The Judge’s procedure was, no doubt,
strictly according to law, but its legality
makes no difference in the utter dis-
gust with which it will be regarded by 99 per
cent, of the community. And the altogether
gratuitous information—which was thrown in
along with the three-months’ sentence —that
man should live and endure under, all cir-
cumstances, because “troubles were sent
upon people to teach them to cultivate one
of the nobler parts of man—endurance under
affliction,” was not only a gorgeous sample of
self-complacent snuffle, but it was an utterly
reckless statement which rests on no
authority whatever. Trouble mciy, in some
cases, come from the hand of Providence,
but in these instances Judge Madden, not
being Providence, or anything even dis-
tantly resembling it, doesn't know why it is
sent, and, therefore, so far as this class of
trouble—if it exists at all—is concerned, his
statement sounds more like blasphemy than
anything else. But trouble is generally of
purely human origin, and then it isn’t sent
to teach endurance under affliction, but
merely to enable some fatted speculator to
grow rich without the necessity of toil. The
present troubles of Melbourne, for instance,
were mostly sent by Matthew Davies and
that old, busted saint, James Munro, and
people of their kind, and the Jess Judge
Madden professes to know about why they
sent them, the better it will be for his own
reputation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Smith and the “S.M. Herald.”
Any philosopher who loves to muse upon the
strange unspeakableness of things is invited to
consider the following extracts :
We are paying half-a-niillion per year to that sauer-
krauled old brute, the Queen. If I had my way I’d blow
her sky-high.— John Smith, of Queensland, social
reformer, wharf orator, and herbalist.
Also :
The Queen. ... a stout little lady in black, bowing
a red face mechanically to right and left. ... a little
lady. . . . the worst-dressed woman in the throng.—
Henry W. Lucy in S.M. Herald.
The above statements are, roundaboutly, at
least a little alike in their meaning ; the chief
difference lies in the fact that John Smith has
been sentenced by Chief Justice Griffith to
nine months’ gaol for the first, and the owners
of the S.M. Herald haven’t been, and are not
at all likely to be, sent to gaol for the second.
Otherwise, when one comes to think of it, the
comments are by no means of opposite purport.
One is a coarse and obscure man’s brutal ex :
pression of contempt; the other is an educated
and almost world-famous man’s refined expres-
sion of a contempt which (considering the
source from which it comes and the place in
which it is printed) is in its effects far more
“ reprehensibly ” seditious. Queen Victoria,
according to Lucy and Sydney’s “ leading ”
daily paper, the Herald, is little and stout
—which means that she is stumpy, squat and
undignified. She is also very badly dressed
—in other words, she is seedy and frowsy
and unpleasant of aspect. She is red-faced,
which implies of necessity that she is red-
nosed ; which is another way of saying that
she is apoplectic and CAMP-like. Also, she is
“ mechanical,” which means a lot of things
among others that she is common-looking,
devoid of womanly grace, dull, unsympathetic,
and unappreciative of the welcome extended to
her by her loyal subjects. The whole is simply
the picture of a washerwoman in a carriage,
and was evidently—unless Lucy, aforesaid, has
lost his grip of verbal niceties—meant as such.
John Smith’s coarse statement was not half so
incisive. He bad to make it coarse because his
vocabulary was limited, but his impotent burst
of meaningless abuse doesn’t accomplish one-
billionth as much in the way of undermining
public loyalty. Apart from the fact that John
Smith is (like almost every other John Smith)
common, obscure, ignorant, poor, and without
influence of any kind, there is absolutely no
reason why he gets nine months in gaol while
H. W. Lucy and the Herald people don’t. In
fact, according to the eternal fitness of
things, the Herald should get 18 months,
because it is an educated person who ought
to know better, and its offence was more
deliberate and its result ms»re - widely dis-
seminated. A few mouths ago New South
Wales lent Judge Windeyer to Queensland
for the purpose of capsizing Lilley’s ob-
noxious decision in the Investment Co. case • u
is about time Queensland lent Judge Grifp’i Tit
in return to stop the scheme of the S.M. Herald
minion, Ld&Y, for capsizing the British throne
That institution, lives on appearances. Queen
Victoria, at her receptions, adopts c'unnin»
Contrivances to make herself look taller, and
the loyal illustrated press always lyingly depicts
her and the rest of the Rriyal family as persons
of commanding appearance. x Tlie “leading”
paper which says that The Throne is red-faced
mechanical, and stumpy, does far more to
undermine its foundations than the blather skite
who roars from a cask that he wants to blow
the blessed establishment “ sky-high.”
Church and State.
Curious that the introduction of the Welsh
Church Disestablishment Bill into the British
House of Commons should synchronise with
New South Wales Minister Copeland’s recep.
tion of a Presbyterian deputation begging f or
the deeds of church land-grants, _ur order that
the land may be a negotiable asset !On the
one hand, we have a Government intent on
taking away church revenues, arid .endowing
hospitals and libraries, education and charities 8
with the confiscated proceeds ; on the other"
the Government is asked to consolidate revenues"
and subsidise a sect at the expense of the State."
Unquestionably Minister Copeland was right
in his refusal. It is nowadays generally con-
ceded that the policy of State-aid to religious
denominations, as religious denominations, i s
unjustifiable; and the clerical corruption" in
Wales, where the priestly caste does little or
nothing in return for its immense revenue
shows to what that policy naturally leads. The
Govt, must confirm the grants issued in the
early days, but only when the churches fulfil
the conditions. If they do not build upon the
land set apart for them they certainly should
not be perndtted to mortgage it to pay salaries
in other districts. And Parliament is quite
justified in fixing a date by which, if the grants
are not utilised, the land should revert to the
Crown. To paraphrase an American utterance,
If God wants land, He is able to pay for it; if
we give any land for nothing, let us give it’to
the widow and orphan.
The Vegetable Man’s Philosophy.
Dear Bulletin, — Following up the interesting
and well-turned letter of . Bill Sikes, aneut
Chinese v. “ White ” vegetable hawkers, one is
disposed to ask why the latter are so deficient
in virtues which would certainly sit ks grace-
fully upon them as upon their yellow rivals.
Why it is that they are so often rough and
ready in speech, scant of courtesy, sullen in
their every action, even to rudeness, or else
presuming upon a familiarity which is still
more repulsive ? Making due allowance for
natural temperament and the obliquity of vision
which prevents him seeing that, if only from
a business standpoint, it is better to assume a
virtue wdiich one does not possess, the “ white ”
hawker, whether vegetable, animal, or mineral,
will always prove a miserable failure along-
side his tinted opponent, partly because
he is less industrious and cannot possess
himself of that long - suffering soul abso-
lutely essential to an alien living amidst a
superior people, and partly because he, the
white hawker, is an ignorant, inflated Demo-
crat, who has been brought up to feed every
day upon three square meals of beef and
“equality.” “ I’m just as good as you ” sticks
out of the end of every carrot he offers for sale.
But, unfortunately, he is not content to keep
that satisfaction to himself. Babv’s got a
trumpet, and he lets you know it. "Doubtless,
with the advance of education and civilisation,
inevitable Democracy will find a richer, more
refined, more appreciative and a inore respon-
sive ring in the hearts of men, and in the good
days to come Equality will find its natural
level. But coarse Democracy must needs be
revolting to the gentle soul of woman, who
has not yet learned to look upon every man
as her brother. She stills feels that there
is a gap between herself and the man who
sells her last week’s fish, all alive, 0!
Although when the true “nobility of labour”
shall have reached its pinnacle of glory such
base distinctions will be but memories of the
past, still, for the present, we may not rashly
blame the gentle housewife if she prefers to
bestow her gracious patronage upon those who
are only too thankful to accept of it humbly
and upon bended knee. When the democratic
hawker shall have learned that respect,
courtesy and civility are not only not incom-
patible with, but are virtually the recognised
brands of true equality, he may be able the
better to compete with the more intelligent
Celestial. In the meantime suave John quietly
ousts the superior creature from the cabbage-
garden, and under present conditions is likely
to do so for some considerable time to come.
— Yours, &c., R. Dup.
Common-Sense Morality.
Grant Allen, in Fortnightly Review :
The old asceticism said, “Be virtuous arid you will lie
happy.” The new hedonism says, “Be happv, and you
will be virtuous.” , . . Self-development "is greater
than self-sacrifice. . . . Everything high and en-
nobling in our nature springs directly out Of the sexnnl
instinct. . . . Who are they that dare to decry th s
mother-sense of the affections and the aisth. tic
faculties? The lean and haggard ascetics of the The-
baid ; the vile St. Antonies, pursued by swinish
dreams and unclean images; the moults and nuns
of the Middle Ages; the like-minded fanatics of the
19th century. ... I do not believe that our
existing system of marriage and harlotry— 'or ought we
not.rather to say of harlotry and marriage?—is adn ine
institution. ... A system which cnlmmatis in the
divorce-court, the action for breach of promise, seduclion,
prostitution, infanticide, abortion, cruelty, husband-
poisoning, vyife-kicking, contagious disease, suicide,
illegitimacy, unnatural vice, the Strand by night, the
London music-halls, might surely be bettered by the wit
of man. Hedonism, I believe, miy introduce a new
system. But hedonists venture to hope that it will not
include the selling of self into loveless union for a night
or for a lifetime; the bearing of children by a mother to
a man she despises or loathes or shrinks from ; the pro-
duction by force, sanctified by law, of hereditary
drunkards, hereditary epileptics, hereditary consump-
tives, hereditary criminals. ... We will not admit
that the chance union of two unfit persons, who ought
never to have- made 'themselves 'parerits* at all, or ought


.■ever to have made themselves parents with one another
* i he ,-endered holy and harmless by the hands of a
extended to bless a bought love, or a bargain of
!miiure marriage. In a word, for the first time in the
history of the race, we shall evolve the totally new idea
of responsibility in parentage.
The kingdom of cant is diminishing when such
truths as these can be said in a leading English
magazine. “Hedonism,” by the way, means
the°religion of pleasure, the philosophy which
teaches that the end of life is enjoyment, or, in
Ingersoll’s words, that “the time to be
happy is now, the place to be happy is here,
and the way to be happy is to make others
happy-”
The Broken Hill Shooting Case.
Last week a Broken Hill (N.S.W.) jury
seriously considered the case of two constables,
charged with the manslaughter of an Irish
drunk, and found them “ not guilty.” The
two officers in question attempted to arrest the
deceased —then alive and in a violent and
abusive state —in the first instance, when he was
armed with an iron bar, and were worsted.
Then they fetched two revolvers and followed
him up when he was unarmed and had ceased
to be either violent or abusive —in fact, when he
was merely zig-zagging in an aimless and foolish
fashion towards his own home ; and, apparently
without making any further attempt to seize
him, they shot at him persistently till he was
killed. The law has formally decided that this
proceeding was neither murder nor man-
slaughter, but a good many people would like
to know what it was as well as what it was
not. Seemingly, the legal decision is that
it wasn’t anything. In fact, if the find-
ing of the jury has any definite meaning,
it° amounts to a declaration that, pro-
vided one drunk won’t stand still when
ordered to do so by two policemen, he may be
bombarded to death with impunity. In the
present case, it appears that the two constables,
when they failed to make the arrest, did not
send for one or two more policemen to help
them, or attempt to impress any civilians into
the service. They did not exhaust the resources
of the force before taking to bloodshed. They
did not shoot in a moment of pardonable excite-
ment ; after the scuffle was over they went
round to the police office for their revolvers,
when they might just as easily have gone there
for assistance, and then they calmly potted
their enemy. If the fact that Consxdine had
violently resisted arrest ten minutes before was
sufficient reason for killing him when he wasn’t
aggressively resisting arrest, then the same kind
of'jury would probably have held the police
guiltless if they had shot at long range another
drunk who had resisted arrest —or was supposed
to have resisted arrest —six months or ten
years before. If by any chance they shot the
wrong drunk that would make absolutely no
difference in the assault; the situation,
as defined by the jury, seems to be
that any policeman may shoot at any
person whom he wants to arrest, pro-
vided he has a bona fide belief that the
person in question will give trouble if he comes
to close quarters. And if the person shot
proves, after all, to be the wrong person, that
unfortunate circumstance makes no difference
in the sincerity of the shooter. In fact, the
position seems to be practically that any
policeman may shoot anybody and explain the
circumstance to his own satisfaction afterwards,
when the corpse’s view of the case can’t be
heard. And if this isn’t the position, then the
Barrier jury which considered the case of
Considine’s remains is hereby invited to explain
what the position really is, for otherwise it is
inexplicable to the mind of ordinary man.
The Law and the Land Boom.
The Victorian Chief Justice has relieved his
mind of a few strong remarks anent the com-
mercial morality of Smellbourne. The other
afternoon his Honor happened to be passing
sentence upon an old citizen of the “respect-
able ” class, whose offence was obtaining money
by false pretences. No social or political
influence exerted itself in favour of this aged
person in the dock ; he was what may be called
a fair “ mark ” for a judicial homily, or a
suitable shocking example, and the Justice used
him as a text with much healthy vigour. “ No
observer,” said Justice Madden, eyeing the
elderly figure behind the spikes as he spoke, “can
fail to see the manifest degeneracy in com-
mercial morality during the last few years. It
is almost incapable of being understood how
men view, nowadays, with sympathetic eyes
the deeds which they formerly recognised as
fraudulent and rascally. Persons who had
lived honestly for years seem to have abandoned
their training, and to have turned to all kinds
of immorality and impropriety in commercial
dealings. The plague must be stopped, and
whenever crimes of this character come
before the court, they should be severely
punished.”. All of which might have sounded
very impressive, but for the grievous circum-
stance that lawyers and the Law are mainly
accountable for the commercial immorality
which Chief Justice Madden deplores. His
Honor was entirely absurd in saying that Smell-
bourne’s altered way of looking at things is
well-nigh impossible to understand. On the
contrary, it is clearly accounted for and plainly
traceable right back to the commencement of
said alteration—the Premier Building Society
case, to wit. Before then a financial or com-
mercial swindle was recognised as a rascally
proceeding, fittingly rewarded by imprison-
ment of the men who worked it. After that
case had come to an abortive termination (the
conviction of Mirams and his clerk was merely
a side issue), and the Crown had declined
to institute another trial in accordance with
the late J ustice Higinbotham’s suggestion, and
the Age had openly sneered at the folly of
having had any prosecution at all —-from that
time Smellbourne began to take dishonesty as
a matter of course. It is true that in the early
days of bank smashes a few convictions
occurred. Public morality didn’t die without
making some sort of a struggle. But even in
the days of G. N. Taylor there was the
incident of Attorney-General Duffy finding
fault with the judicial clemency extended
to that particular criminal, after which Taylor
was tried again, and his original sentence was
quadrupled, and Mr. Duffy was dropped out
of the Ministry. Then came the Munro and
Davies outcry. How much of Smellbourne’s
degeneracy has resulted from the political and
legal way of regarding M. and D’s. transactions
is a question that Justice Madden might well
set himself to answer. Munro and his Federal
Bank friends are, for the moment, hearing un-
pleasant things said about them by one Judge,
but as a set-off to this we have the fact of
another Judge having said the kindest things
of “Jimmy’s” insolvency. Matthew Davies,
himself a lawyer, was eventually dragged over
innumerable obstacles and brought before a
Judge. The iury acquitted him ; nevertheless,
the disgraceful log-rolling by which the early
days of the prosecution was characterised, will
be remembered for half-a-century. Other sets of
bank-directors escaped trial, though there were
frequent opportunities for “ the Bench ” to ex-
press virtuous feelingon their particular matters.
Throughout the whole time of financial revela-
tions nothing has been more deplorable than
the mild tone of the Bench, and the open im-
morality of legal arguments used in Court to
defend land-booming and bank-bleeding. This
is explained by the intimate relations existing
between the Law and the Land Boom, of which
Justice Madden would seem, by his remarks,
to be singularly ignorant.
Chief Justice Madden, Vic., was called upon
to sentence an animal, named Maloney, found
guilty of a gross offence on a little girl, and
seized the opportunity to deliver a futile lecture
full of moral precepts and expressions of horror.
His Honor dwelt upon the fact that this was
the third offence of the kind of w’hich Maloney
had been convicted, and then gave him five
years, with two floggings. As the sexual maniac,
Maloney, has had the “cat” before with-
out effect, Judge Madden must rely upon the
saving grace of his judicial sermon to deter the
wretch from thus misbehaving again when his
five years are up —which will not strike the
lay mind as a very effective safeguard for the
innocence of the little girls of 1899. The two
previous convictions should have convinced
Chief Justice Madden that homilies and the
clawings of the “ cat ” are alike wasted upon
Maloney, for whose iniquities there is but one
reasonable course of treatment—life-long im-
prisonment. The lash is no remedy for a
diseased brain.
+
Thus Brisbane Courier :
“ Three Kanaka missionaries are going from Bundaberg
to Malayta, where no white man can gain a footing, to
spread the Gospel. If successful, they will send for their
teacher, Mr. Eustace.” After traversing Rev. Mr.
Paton’S statement that “ Kanakas are corrupted in
Queensland, and that the most incorrigible characters on
the islands have served time on the plantations.”
The Courier adds: “ It is impossible not to be struck
with the complete annihilation which philanthropists and
missionary objectors to black labour meet in this move-
ment.”
The above picture of the murderous savage
turned missionary and rushing frantically home
to spread the Terewth is touching in the ex-
treme. How he is going to succeed in Malayta
when nearly all attempts to Christianise (in the
real sense) the Kanaka in Bananaland have
proved a failure, is beyond comprehension.
With what logic the coloured missionary will
enforce his Kerristian precepts it is difficult to
discover. Will he point to the phthisical
islander slowly rotting on a Queensland planta-
tion as an evidence of the power of the Gawspel?
Will he recount those charming, idyllic little
episodes of the Jason and the Hopeful? Will
he point to the crowded Kanaka cemeteries and
call them to bear witness for the glory of the
Loard? Will he tell the benighted Malaytau
to look at the decimated New Hebrides for
proofs of the efficacy of Christian teaching ?
Will he tell the heathen of Australia itself,
with its sleek, well-groomed parsons and its
army of unemployed—its starving women and
children ? Or will he content himself with sim-
ply calling in evidence of the virtue of his
creed the multitudinous smug-faced mis-
sionaries scattered through the length and
breadth of Polynesia ?
Rev. J. M. Abernethy, a Port Melbourne
clergyman, speaking at a recent meeting of
local nabobs called to consider the prevailing
distress, said that “he could say nothing
authoritively as to the extent of the distress,
inasmuch as long before people became abso-
lutely starving they left the congregation,
while others were too poor ever to have joined
the churches.” According to this a pastor
cannot be expected to know what ails the
people who are outside his congregation of are
too poor to join a church—that isn’t in the
agreement. Mr. Abernethy’s ingenious admis-
sion is an incisive condemnation of soi disant
Christianity, and his own passive unconscious-
ness of the true inwardness of his little piece is
dreadfully Scotch and funereally funny. “Too
poor ever to have joined the churches !” Now
shouldn’t a confession of faith contain a state-
ment showing the confessant to be a person in
good circumstances, and therefore a fit and
proper individual to be a member of a church ?
In .Queensland, the other day, a person was
accused of forging a cheque upon the Bank of
N.Q., and several witnesses were brought con-
siderable distances to give evidence. Then
Judge Miller announced that he couldn’t con-
scientiously try the case, because he was a
shareholder in the bank, and the witnesses were
sent home again ; and the prisoner—who may
be perfectly innocent—was rem inded to drag
out some more dismal weeks in gaol until
a Judge who is not a shareholder in the
B.N.Q. may find it convenient to come
along. He suffers this additional mental and
physical torture and—supposing he is finally
acquitted—this needless loss of time and
money, not for Ins own fault, but simply because
Judge Miller prefers being a bank shareholder
to attending to the business for which the
country pays him a lavish salary. Also, having
paid a lawyer to appear on his behalf, prisoner
must pay him over again for a second appear-
ance, and if he can’t raise the money for a
second fee he. may be gaoled, even if
innocent, for want of the means of
defence. Further, the jurors and the witnesses
must be gathered together a second time, and
much other trouble and expense of various
kinds will be involved. The whole business is
a glaring insult to justice. The country pays
Judge Miller to administer justice, and
neither he nor any other Judge has a right to
take a hand in private speculations which may
prevent him doing his duty. According to his
own showing, Mr. Miller can’t trust himself
to give an unbiased decision, or can’t trust the
public to believe he is giving an unbiased
decision, where the B.N.Q. is concerned in the
case. And as other Judges are built of the same
clay, it may be assumed that, under like circum-
stances, they would feel the same way. There-
fore, as The Bulletin has often pointed out,
and means to go on pointing out,no Judge should
be allowed to be a shareholder in anything, or to
have a hand in any company, partnership or
syndicate, or to belong to any secret society, or
to have an overdraft in any bank, or to owe
money to any money-lender, or to do anything
which may prevent him holding the scales of
justice evenly. The country pays him to be a
Judge, not a bank shareholder ; and if lie insists
on being a bank shareholder he should give up
being a Judge.
♦
Says Melb. Argus ; “It is, indeed, to the
Augean stable of Court procedure that the
modern Hercules may most fitly turn his
reforming zeal. Why should a litigant approach
the seat of justice only at the risk of ruin if the
cause be heavy ? Why is the solution of simple
issues so often clouded by a host of technicali-
ties, and so oppressed with a mass of ‘ inter-
locutory ’ forms and processes that the client’s
means and patience are well-nigh exhausted
before he even gets to the stage of trial ?” And
why is “great” journalism in Melbourne
beginning to protest vigorously against the
legal corruption it has hitherto winked at,
and even solemnly encouraged ? Because their
sin is finding newspaper proprietors out.
Technicalities and interlocutory forms were
grand institutions as long as they enabled news-
papers to starve their pursuers into silence, but
when these devices failed, the t audal of legal
procedure became insufferable. It may be
observed that the Argus makes no reference to
Speight’s 18 months of waiting before he could
bring the Age into Court, seeing that jockey
Hayes was the victim of seven months’ delay in
suing the Argus itself.
Those who set up Henniker Heaton as Row-
land Hill No. 2 overlook essential differences-.
Rowland Hill’s reduction of postages in the
United Kingdom ministered to the necessities
of the mass of the people, the Imperial penny
postage which Henniker advocates hardly
touches the masses at all. Nobody in Australia
particularly wants to send letters to England
for a penny. Commercial correspondents, who
are chiefly concerned, do not find the
rate burdensome, and the Id. idea has only
a sentimental rotundity in its favour. Were
letters carried free, the sentiment would be still
more charmingly complete ; but there is no
reason why we should sacrifice cash for senti-
ment in such a matter. Penny postage to
England means a loss of £25,000 a year to Aus-
tralia ; and we cannot consistently have that
without penny interproviucial postage —a much
greater boon—which, however, would cost
£250,000 a year, according to official estimates.
As we can’t afford to lose £250,000 a year,
Henniker’s boom must just die as decently as
it can under the circumstances.
_ JT
The nuances of the Law of Distress are to be
seen in artistic play in Australia now-a-days.
The existence of this law—a survival of primi-
tive lynch-law, cast on the dung-heap of Roman
mortgage, and strengthened by the “ grab-who-
can ” breezes of the balmy days of chivalry—is
a singular commentary on the democratic pre-
tensions of the Australian nation. It declares
the owner (on paper) of land to be above the
law, and the occupier to be outside the pale of
the law. So abnormal are its characteristics,
jurists can hardly classify it. It is the platypus
of jurisprudence, a misshapen link between the
feudal Reptilia and the Simian Law’norder.
The pundits class it under “Extraordinary
Procedure,” and, for once, the man in the street
agrees with them. It is a good example of the
eclecticism of the Fat Man, being a simple
adoption of the first principle of what he
calls in others anarchy—“take the law into your
own hands.” You can tell its nature by the
company it has kept. The “ right ” of distress
is a Siamese twin of the feudal landlord’s his-
torical “right” to his tenant’s bride. Lord
Leitrim, now of parts beyond the Styx,
was only asserting an absolute privilege and
accompaniment of distress when he took the
pretty daughters of his tenants as lady-helps,
under veiled threat of evicting their parents.
Such “ rights,” independent of contract,
were really indicia of a status. And, as,
when Maine tells us that the march of civiliza-
tion is from status to contract, Fat Man
applauds, distress is by his own admission a
barbarous system. “Every man’s house is his
castle—except to the distrainer” is a time-
honoured maxim of that unwritten law so easily
read with a golden cipher. This “right” is
remorselessly logical. It allows you to take
the horse in the livery-stable, but forbids you
to take the same horse in the smith’s shop. It
allows you to take the tools of a stranger car-
penter left in a blacksmith’s shop, but not the
tools of ten stranger blacksmiths left in the
same shop. The landlord may take your
fiddle from your friend to whom you have
lent it, but not from your “uncle” to wdiom
you have pawned it (for the usurer’s security
must not be impaired). Insolvency leaves you
your bed and bedding, distress has no such
paltry scruples. How long shall the spume of
this dark ages’ dragon make fetid our air and
unwholesome our lives ? Here’s your work,
Labour members, rather than in sparring at
camels, or wrangling over impracticable
pledges.
That wild-haired electrician, “ Professor ”
Richard, when The Bulletin last heard of
him, was pursuing his devastating track around
Newcastle (N.S.W.). Two publications con-
cerning the individual in question have just
reached this office. One is a paper of recent
date issued by himself and called the Electric
News, which is crammed with laudatory
notices, mostly from obscure English papers,
and with testimonials from alleged cured
patients. The other is an apparently much
older pamphlet published in England by an
exactly similar “professor” called Edward
Moross, and containing, with a few exceptions,
exactly the same testimonials from the same
papers, and the same letters of the same dates
from the same “cured patients.” The only
difference is that in one case the papers and the
cured patients return thanks to “Professor”
Moross, and in the other they return thanks in
the same words on the same day to “ Pro-
fessor ” Richard. Therefore, it would ap-
pear either that Richard has “ worked the
oracle ” on Moross by annexing his testi-
monials, or that Richard is Moross but
finds it necessary to conceal the fact for reasons
best known to both of them, or that Moross,
despite the apparent age of the pamphlet, has
stolen Richard’s testimonials, or that Richard
and Moross are both somebody else, but con-
sider it advisable to keep this third person
dark owing to causes not explained. One of
the surprising circumstances about this com-
bination is that the first pamphlet contains an
interview with “ Professor ” Moross, published
in an English paper, the Journal and Evening
Express, of May 4, 1892 ; and the second one
contains the same interview with “Professor ”
Richard, alleged to be quoted from the
Melb. Standard of Feb. 7, 1893. This makes
it somewhat difficult to decide whether one of
them interviewed the other or each of them in-
terviewed himself, but it makes the poor old
Standard look tolerably foolish either way.
The Australian police might do worse than
make some inquiries after both these “ pro-
fessors,” and find out for certain which of them
the above-mentioned testimonials belong to, or
if they really belong to either of them.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications which arrio •
at this of Ice insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Parisian” : Your statement that “most men
are dead and have hardly ever been otherwise’’ is not.
original, and we don’t even know that it is true. Possibly
most men are not born yet... “W.E.F.” (West Mait-
land) : Commonplace, like most bush love-stories, and the
characters are badly mixed up “Bendigo”: Will Use
—some day “Old Hand”: Uninteresting. Besides, a
man doesn’t “ fulfill the post of judge." A post can’t be
fulfilled any more than a three-rail fence “Whitgift ’i
You are not a poet. Just look at a sample of yourself in
cold print :
“ Her natural forces surely now
Entitle a woman to practise oration
In the public court of any sort
Of a decently-civilised nation.”
....“A.M.” : The Bulletin is not supplied free to reading
rooms “A.M.” : Jim and the wattle blossoms again.
Jim died of thirst, did he? Are you sure he didn’t die of
drink “J.0.H.”; But you don’t say whether it s
original. It looks American.. “Hoplite"; The semi-
ecclesiastical management of cemeteries should be
knocked on the head ; the municipalities should have
control “ James R.” : The Bulletin is too suspicious
to pass its opinion on “original waltzes submitted in
manuscript form,” though, at the same time, it was Very
deep of you not to print the “Oscar.” “The Wages of
Sin is Death ” : The man who tries to pass off bits of
Burns, and hunks of “ Auld Lang Syne ” and odd scrap ;
of Scripture as his own composition is partly swindler and
chiefly mule, and very ineffective mule at that....
“G.E.R.” (Sydney): Ghost yarn hardly up to Bulletin
standard. This paper is particular about its ghosts ...
“ R. 0.” (Gunnedah): Sketch of one large man and one
small bullock not in our line.. .“Polype”: As you say,
the story “trenches upon a question of delicacy.”
That is the only thing it does trench on “X.Y.Z.”
(Newtown): No “Mona”: When next you stand
on “the cliff hight” please don’t hesitate
“Daniel”: The only useful thing in your contribution
was the pin, which came in handy because the office had
just started its last shirt-button “Tomel ” (Welling-
ton) : A faint and unsatisfactory suggestion of indecency,
ending in nothing,.. “ F.L.J.” (Toowoomba): The pious
old man and the illegitimate infant are used-up jokes.
So are the pious old lady and the same infant. Also, all
mariner of other people and the same infant
“Gumphy” (Shepparton): Ask the Colonial Mutual Life
Co “L. M‘L.” (Malvern, Vic.): Poem full of coarse
language, but otherwise not remarkable “ The Brace-
man ” (Broken Hill): Will consider further “M,
Eugonim ” (Melbourne): Three good jokes which are very
old, and one miserably bad yarn which is obviously
new “ Rooster ” : No admission to this chicken-house.
“J.R.”: If you will persist in saying that Rock-
hampton and Townsville have better natural harbours
than Gladstone and Bowen you must say it on the spot
and £ive N.Q. a chance to howl at you. Charters Towers
didn’t make Townsville ; the railway made Townsville ;
if the railway had come to B jwen Charters Towers would
have made Bowen ...“C.E.H.": Mere drivel—“ Ish-
mael”: Yes, we’re muzzled, too “ Rathekeale ” : May
use “A. Australian”: Sentiments cheerful, grammar
fearful “W.C.H.8.”: Some merit; not enough..
“E.S.” : Can’t give anybody less than a C.M.G. 24 verses
to die in. Ordinary persons can easily be killed, buried
and tombstoned—all inside of a dozen lines.'..." Tim
Bobbin”: Worse than ever “S.Y.N.”: Wonder it
didn’t break the typewriter -“R.C.H.”; Fit for the
grave of a cow that died last Christmas. But we haven’t
got any grave “D.H.”: There must be a he 11...
“ Jayem ” : A small pin lost in a large damp cellar
“L.E.B.”: Thought and expressed 1000 times
before “Fly”: Do “Chaudos”: Don’t
“E.F.S.”: Suitable reading for the Society of
Stale Corpses “G.P.8.”: “Soaker” choked
“ R. 8.” : Govt, relief work doesn’t solve the unemployed
problem ; it makes it bigger, unless it is “ hard, con-
tinuous, and underpaid.” “J. M’Laren”: Write to
editor Glasgow Mail “V. Tarpium”: Weak interest.
“Geo. P.” : Sketch quite unsuitable. . “AVictim”:
You send us nothing definite “ A.C.”: Send us an un-
touched negative. The only true and natural photos.,now-
adays, are those taken in ga01....“ Jimmie P.”: Thanks...
“ M‘G.” : There are limits to the public discussion of such
subjects before a mixed audience. Dr. Brigham Brown,
who stuck to generalities, drew the line just at the right
place ; you go into unprintable detail. All you say may
be very true, but The Bulletin can’t afford to let you say
it in these columns ./Disappointed” (and many
others): You “don’t know how to please” us. Well,
be simple ; be natural. Be brief; prefer a sentence to
a paragraph, a phrase to a sentence, a word to a phrase.
Don’t beat your grain of gold over a column: nothing
pleases the average writer more than to spoil a good par.
in a bad story. Shun superfluous adjectives; stick to
sturdy nouns. Don’t over-elaborate; say what you have
to say as tersely and originally as possible, and quit
saying. Come to the point at once, and stay there till
you go. The best ideas pack in the least space. The
Bulletin contains more concentrates than all ocher
Australian weeklies put together, and if we had time we’d
put it in half-an-inch.W.W.P.” : Awkward
“M.L.”: “Night” dull “Breaker”: “Wiseman”
can’t stay. The pace is good at first, but he breaks up
altogether at the finish. Why didn’t you marry him
openly to one widow, secretly to another, and make him
elope with the third? “P. Grimcoire”: Mixed and
inconclusive. You strike all round the nail .. .“H.P.”:
Poem unworthy such initials... “A Woman”: Noted;
glad to get suitable items ... “J. Redshaw ” : Not much
in it .. “ A Native ”: May use ; send names and dates.. .
“E.W.R.” : Sonnets to Dibbs won’t do; nothing will fit
him but blank blank verse.... “ H.0.H.” : The horrors of
N.Q. exist chiefly in the imagination of dudes and bank-
clerks, who are miserable without a Block and a private
bar. The writer was never so well, fat, strong and
happy as when he was roaming the N.Q. bush.
.. . -“G.B.”: Better stop it “ C.H.”: Too like
“Curlew’s” recent yarn “Tom Gayndah”; Can’t
argue the point; see Feb. Arena and Forum. “10
Minutes,” stale; “2 to 1,” ordinary ; haven’t seen “Pro-
portion.”


M. & H. WOOLF &, CO.,
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants,
And Importers of Walking Sticks and Lowe & Co.’s
(L. & Co.) Pipes, are now open to transact business,
WHOLESALE and RETAIL,
at- their new premises, 376 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY (The Post Office is next).
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A. Good. and. Clxeap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
ġ
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO,
rlVliltM: (SwUwrlaiKl),
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by buml.es of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
artiole, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
NO. 8 SILVER SONGSTER now ready.
Containing “Silly Fools,” “Pleasures of
Eliza,” “Linger Longer, Loo,” and l(jO other
Songs and Parodies, Gags, Comic Dialogues, &c.,
may be obtained from all Booksellers, 6d,
"TVTO. 8 SILVER SONGSTER now ready.
jLtI Containing “Tommy Atkins,” “ That’s a.
Pleasure Awaits You, My Boy,” “I Wasn’t So
Drunk as All That,” and 100 other Popular Songs.
All Booksellers, 6d.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COWING WEEK.
Her Majesty's .. “ A King of Grim*.”
Lyceum “The Bauble Shop.”
Fillis's Circus, Opposite Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COWING WEEK.
Princess*. “The Prodigal Daughter/
® IJO t' " Morals of Mayfair.”
Theatre Royal Maggie Moore Co.
Alexandra “ Queen’s Evidence.”
Town Hall. Belle Cole Concerts.
Mr. Charles Holloway took possession of
Sydney Royal on Saturday last, and opened with
Frank Harvey’s creepy production in five acts,
called “Judge Not.” Which title, by the way, is
somewhat inappropriate, for at the beginning the
heroine is judged and gets five years, and in the
last act the principal burglar is judged and gets
ten years. These things look like a discrepancy.
Still, the piece is built on sound melodramatic
Erinciples. It begins with the hero being cast off
y his rich uncle, owing to his marriage with a
governess, and sinking into an abject condition in
a London tenement-house, and it wades through
§reat masses of undigested calamity till the uncle
tes and leaves him all the real and personal pro-
perty. Ho doesn’t rise by his own exertions ; the
hero of the five-act melodrama is always rescued
by his uncle. Therefore, The Bulletin desires
to curse the stage-uncle with a complicated
curse and an awful aggregation of plain and
fancy anathema, as a person who pauperises
the stage nephew and makes him a loafer and a
thing of no account. The Bullf.tin has no
special objection to “Judge Not,” apart from the
rich uncle, but it proposes to put its foot down on
that relative from this time forward.
Mr. Charles Holloway, whom The Bul-
letin once held in esteem as a very tolerable
comedian, makes a dire and ghastly failure as the
hero. He tackles all the pathetic situations, in-
cluding the one where his long-vanished wife rises
from the dead, in a brassy tone of voice—the
same unimpassioned tone that anybody else would
ask for the mustard with; and his attitudes are
mostly suggestive of the letter “Z ” when it has
been out all night in the rain. The rest of the
company hold the show together, however, and
the hero of “Judge Not” doesn’t matter much
anyhow. Miss Maud Williamson, as a distracted
Wife, is good in spots, though the spots are some-
what disconnected; also, this lady’s solemn
1 nday-school smile grows wearisome. But J. W.
f.veeney is excellent, and Miss Alice Deorwyn,
yvlio hits the only unadulterated comedy character
in the drama, is a trifle more excellent still, and is
a vision of loveliness to boot. Also, about six
other characters, including the principal villain,
are deserving of high commendation, so the utter
hopelessness of the hero doesn’t signify much.
One notable feature about this same hero, by-the-
way, is his habit of writing to his uncle for
assistance, and then, when the uncle’s emissary
comes along to offer the assistance, he refuses to
listen, and drives the messenger down the stair.
This proceeding is dignified, but illogical, only as
the uncle isn’t on the bill he can’t appear and
throw a well-earned brick at his ungrateful
relative.
This is the third and last week of “The
Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” at Sydney Lyceum,
“ The Bauble Shop ” being on the programme for
Saturday. Even now it is an open question
whether the local public has quite made up its
mind concerning “Mrs. Tanqueray.” It is
undoubtedly a great production, but either it is
not quite so great as was expected, or its greatness
is not exactly the kind that was expected, or else
it is a variety of greatness which only soaks by
slow degrees into the public comprehension. It is
certainly not so dirty as was expected. If it
could be kept on view for six weeks longer it is
just possible that about the end of that period the
{mblio would begin to resolve whether it really
iked “Mrs. Tanqueray ”or not. This world, as
a whole, is a solemn and snufflebusting globe
which is staggered by the contemplation of its
own goodness, and is utterly astonished to find
that it is the most profoundly moral world that
ever was. Therefore, it doesn’t really know how
to take Pinero’s drama, and goes out like one in a
dream to have a drink between the acts.
** * *
“ A King of Crime ” will be produced on
Saturday at Her Majesty’s, this being its very
first appearance in Australia. The new drama is
alleged to be a vast and shuddersome affair with
many crawly horrors in it, and a dark and ghoulish
ensuement at the end of it. Further, it is filled
with great mechanical effects, and contains some
new and original iniquities. Meanwhile, the
“Lights of London” will continue to unfold its
complicated tale until Friday night.
** * *
Fillis’s Circus is closing its season in
Sydney, and the clown’s jokes have reached a
point of such unspeakable imbecility that the
departure is not so unwelcome as it might be.
Also, the “great” Slade Murray will go un-
regretted, inasmuch as his songs are too largely of
the bedstead order, and he runs somewhat too
extensively into the undressed variety of music.
Sydney has had much circus of late, and can do
without one for a few weeks without any
difficulty.
** * *
“The Prodigal Daughter” is wafting a
smell of horse across the footlights at Melb. Prin-
cess’s ; and the success of Bland Holt’s circus-play
depends upon seven battered beasts and a wet
“welsher. As a stage story, the P.D. is pre-
cisely the kind of stuff that people expect to get
at popular prices nowadays, and conscientious
acting cannot preserve its brazen unrealism from
scorn. Solemn balderdash should be out of place
in the principal theatre of a fairly-civilised
city; and as “The Prodigal Daughter”
is not a well-written melodrama, and the
Princess's stage is small for horse-incidents,
the efforts of Bland Holt have not succeeded in
arranging a really impressive circus. He is said
to complain that the Melbourne public don’t want
drama, but legs. Well, burlesque legs, making
allowance for the padding, have something human
about them, which is more than can be argaied
in defence of any person concerned in “The
Prodigal Daughter.” Perhaps there is a touch of
nature about Bland Holt’s own part of the stable-
boy, and, for the rest. Miss Watson, Sass, Cos-
grove, Baker, and Mrs. Bland, act to very little
intelligent purpose, though with considerable
ability. Also, the scenery is splendid.
** * *
“Struck Oil ” is now running a sixth week
at Melb. Royal, and there is still money available
for the support of this deserving old institution.
If “Struck Uil ” definitely decides to disappear
after Friday, “ A Circus Queen ” will make a first
appearance on the following night in opposition
to the new bill at the Bijou. Here the Garner
management will start proceedings on Saturday
(May 5) with “The Morals of Mayfair,” of which
nothing is known but the assurance of a Melb.
morning journal that “the idiosyncracies of char-
acter developed in this play render it one of the
most popular of latter-day creations.” The Bul-
letin has already a suspicion that Mr. A. Garner
wrote it himself.
** * *
“ Queen’s Evidence ” gave the Alexandra
gallery a warm sixpen’orth on Saturday night.
Dan. Barry and a wandering blind woman are the
leading features of this oft-told horror. When it
becomes necessary for Dan. to clear the sightless
lady from his path, in order to secure th« papers
and marry the heiress, he opens one gate of a lock
so that his victim may fall into the water and get
rescued by the good young man from round the
corner. Miss Lilia Wilde made the perilous
descent on Saturday. Her dress caught on the
old look bridge, and she might have fallen at a
very dangerous angle if she hadn’t been carefully
secured to a rope all the time. The effect was
suggestive of an unseen stage-carpenter fishing
with Lilia for his bait, but the Alexandrites
cheered their hardest, and the success of “Queen’s
Evidence ” was assured.
Frank Clark and his Maoriland contingent
are back at Melbourne Alhambra; also, the Cog-
hills appear to have a large circle of friends at the
Gaiety, and a few other little shows keep their
heads above water. Madame Belle Cole’s con-
certs at the Town Hall are fixed for to-night
(Thursday), Saturday, and Tues., Wed., and
Thurs. of next week.
** * *
Madame Belle Cole, who, with her Co.,
made her Australian debut in Adelaide on April
19, is as fat as Antoinette Sterling, but is better-
looking, doesn’t dress dowdily, and makes no
pious remarks from the platform. Madame —and
this is a poor compliment—altogether eclipses
Antoinette as a singer. Her contralto never
reaches the shrieking stage. Australians will like
Belle Cole.
* # 9
Emily Spada, the soprano of the Belle
Cole Co., is a born actress, and gives the best ren-
dering of the ever-beautiful and nearly always
hackneyed “ Ave Maria” the writer has heard.
Mdlle. Murkeno, the lady-violinist, is not as good
as many that Australians have seen, and there are
better in Australia now. Phil. Newbury, the
tenor, a Maonlander, has a well-developed voice,
and his singing of “ the Holy City ” was a revela-
tion in voice culture.” Basso M’Grath will be the
most popular member of the company.
At Poverty Point.
Lillian Tree leaves Sydney to sing in New York for
Abbey and Grau.
The marriage of Tenor Tapley and Violet Varley is
remarkable for two things. Both celebrities appear on
the stage under their real names; both doat on their pro-
fession and love bloater paste. The important thing to
notice is the bloater paste. For two people who can be
unanimous on the subject of bloater paste married life
will be one continuous sunshine.
T. P. 0 Connor remarks that Paula Tanqueray’s suicide
is “the last word of indictment against the cruel and
murderous inequality of our sexual code.”
Thirty shillings was the house at a big Australian
theatre recently. Perhaps the record.
The Dan Barry Co. comes to Sydney Royal.
Next to appear at the Cri. (Sydney) will be Gown-
Trotter and Curly Bellew.
Patlie Brown seems to have got on the right side of the
English scribblers.
Sydney P.P. over-crowded just now. One well-known
pro., to earn bread, writes the ads. for a prominent
drapery.
Bland Holt’s presentation of the Old Bailey at Melb.
Princess Theatre is good in most details. But the wit-
nesses are sworn by a common policeman, while in London
this is always done by the usher.
Isn’t Garner’s disavowal of stardom a bit disparaging to
Bentley?
Mrs. Marcus Clarke is to reappear on the stage. When
does anyone leave it?
The Melb. Salvation Army has sent out asacred minstrel
troupe, 12 men in red trousers, as well as shirts, called the
Metamorphoses.
Does Arthur Garner believe in lucky omens? He starts
his company al Mall). Bijou on May 5, the date, six years
ago, of Arnold's ilrst production of “ Hans the Boatman ”
in the same theatre. “Hans” was a mascotte in those
days.
A recent performance of “ Struck Oil ” at Melbourne
Royal, was boomed as being under “the Grand Fashion-
able Patronage of His Honor Chief Justice Sir John
Madden, LL.D., and Lady.” Which reminds that Madden
was the distinguished Irishman who refused to grant an
injunction against the “Struck Oil ” advts.
The many friends of Signora Majeroni will learn with
regret that owing to a severe cold she has again partly
lost her voice, and her re-appearance on the stage will
probably be delayed for several months. When this
disaster befell her she had just completed arrangements
for a season at Brisbane with a new Australian drama,
written by her talented son, Mr. Mario Majeroni, and
entitled “The Rebel Flag.” This piece will probably be
produced shortly at a Sydney theatre with Mr. Majeroni—
who looks more and more like his lamented father—in the
leading part.
Fitzgerald’s Circus has had a triumphant tour through
Tasmania; it visited nearly every township in the island.
After a short Hobart season the co. left for Maoriland on
26th.
J. R. Greville, comedian, who began his stage career at
golden Bendigo, in 1854, has just died, aged 60 years.
Greville was a reputedly wealthy man, said to be worth
£Bo,ooo—all got together, as he used to say, by strict
economy. His only extravagance was in practising the
“gentle art” of fishing with rod and line.
Lenre, Camilla Urso’s husband, is a handsome, bene-
volent-faced man whoh as made himself a great favourite
in Melb.
[?]
846 Maequarie-street North, Sydney,
May 2,' 1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Madame Lucien Henry Sydney’s leading
French instructress, who teaches the vice-regal
sprigs—announces her intention of giving a lecture
in French on “Jean Francois Millet,” at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall, next Monday evening, said
lecture being interspersed with music. Madame
held a distinctly successful reunion finished
off with “cakes and ale,” at her Pitt-street
rooms, the other afternoon, when several
of her pupils went through a little French
play. A young lady who is graduating for
the concert-stage sang two songs most accept-
ably, and Madame Henry, in a handsome toilet of
black lace over slate-blue silk, seemed to be every-
where at once. The reunion killed two birds with
one stone, it seemed to me. It was agi ded pill.
I know I had quite a respectable French lesson
and amused myself the while.
Major Rupert Leigh, A.D.C., seems to be
usurping the privileges of the vice-regal p.s., for
whithersoever Sir Robert Duff goes he goetb,
and all H.E.’s fixtures are his fixtures, ap-
parently. lam not sure that brother Rupert
No. 2 bargained for so much wear and tear when
he altered the colour of his facings. When he
was skirmishing for his own people there was a
certain amount of free agency about his paitof
the suite-ing—he might go if he wanted to—but
the New Man is invariably backed up by Lady
Jersey’s little brother, who must have an omni-
vorous appetite for gallivanting if he chooses to
make one every time.
Apropos, it must be rather amusing to change
Governors, as Major Leigh has done. How he
must contrast the new comers with his own
people, and what a lot of experience in how to
govern in Australia he ought to have when it’s all
over and he has gone back to Piccadilly, or been
captured by some wealthy widow or gilded Aus-
tralian belle—as happened to his namesake!
The attachd, who experiences the triumphs and
failures of two dynasties, ought to know enough to
govern something off his own bat, one would
think; and yet that never comes to pass. A
Governor is nascitur non fit, and no matter how
perseveringly you understudy the great man there
isn’t a chance of your ever getting the star part,
though you live till your joints creak. And it
just occurs to my train of thought that if vice-
regal succession by attache were a possible thing
there would be more history made at Govt. House
than is done under present cut-and-dried con-
ditions. There would be grim stories of private
secretaries who got to be too popular, walking
about the Domain at midnight with their heads
under their arms, and mysterious legends of
aspiring aides-de-camp drowned in butts of
porphyry.
Talking of attaches, the high-collared youths
who inhabit the prawn-coloured vice-regal “cot-
tage ” and do odd dilettante jobs for Guvment-
ouse are subject to as strict a form of etiquette as
people a hundred miles off, although you wouldn’t
think it. The other day at a festivity Lady
Blank buttonholed a relative of one of these
youths. “ Your brother has never called, Mr. de
Snooks,” she said affably ; “ will you tell him to
write his name in the visitors’ book in view of
future invitations?” And this to be formally
conveyed to a youth who is camped a hundred
yards from “Her Excellency’s” boudoir, and
whom she could see every day of her life by simply
looking out of the window ! The subtleties of
ceremony “on the topmost bough ” are a fearful
and wonderful thing.
I must confess to being surprised, at “The
Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” at Sydney Lyceum the
other evening, by the number of damsels in their
tender teens who were brought to sample and
inwardly digest undoubtedly the naughtiest play
of the season. I don’t believe a bit in making life
a mystery-play to the young, but still my views
don’t run to taking school-girls to an up-to-
date tragedy that wasn't meant for their ignorant
eyes and ears, and which can only pique them into
a desire to comprehend it as their elders do. On
Saturday evening I saw a lady herding up three
lamb-like typical bread-and-butter misses in short
white frocks and each clasping a guileless wrap of
nun’s veiling edged with swansddwn as they
marched into their seats—in the same order, I
felt sure, that they filed into their pew on Sun-
days. What these green budlets were expected
to bring away from a seance with Mrs. Tanqueray
goodness only knows.
When the British naval officer learns to waltz
as well as any foreigner you like to hit upon, he
will be a femininely-adored institution which wiii’
be hard to beat, but at present there are flaws in
him, altho’ he doesn’t seem to be particularly
aware of it. Only the other day, in Melbourne,
the captain of a British warship elected to give a
shivaree aboard on the same day that the Austrian
ship had sent out cards for a crush. As Melbourne
top creaminess is not unlimited, it naturally
occurred that the same folks were invited to both
•hivoos, and, as luck and pre-arrangement would
have it, the gilt-edged mob made the Austrian
ship the first engagement.
But, although the British boats cruised around
all the afternoon to carry off the “going on”
guest and dodged about invitingly in view of the
port-holes, the fun on the other sliip was too good
to miss, and it was at a late hour that a few long-
headed butterflies, who knew that Her Majesty’s
ship, Flying Fish, we have always with us, where-
as the other tub was making an angel’s visit—did
a hurried duty-call on board the English ship
where the officers, for once in their lives, actually
outnumbered the visitors. It is so unusual for a
British man-of-war condescending to drape its
guns in afternoon tea-cloths to be left a wall-
flower, as it were, by local society that it is pos-
sible other commanders will be more careful about
their dates in future when a rakish stranger is in
the bay.
Apropos of the naval officer, people who make a
study of the species say that he is degenerating
from a bluff and hearty sailor into a commonplace
Johnny, with turned-up pants as if he had come
via a wet deck, and a bangle up his arm. People
say, too, that he is getting shy with the weather-
breaks even a dinner vow if there is dew on the
binnacle, and cannot be relied upon to go to a
party if the cushion in the shore-boat isn’t aired.
And people who notice him closely have deter-
mined that he is going off as a host, too.
Time was when a man-o’-war boat with a flag at
each tip waited the pleasure of Captain Corcoran s
guest and franked him over the heaving harbour;
but, nowadays,the average invited visitor to
H.M.S. Bluegroper, or as the case may be, is
humbly and reverentially delivered at the gang-
way by a jolly young waterman who furthermore
generally finds it a paying spec, to wash about the
outside until the visitor wants to go back to terra
cotta. Altogether a cloud is passing over the
glory of the Service, and society belledom is
already scanning the horizon for the Chinese
Admiral and his war-junks which are understood
to be making the pace towards this the adopted
country of Quong Tart.
I thought I had never seen Sydney look so hope-
lessly insolvent as it did on Hospital Saturday,
when women appeared at - every street-corner pre-
siding at tables with the hot-cross-bun sign-manual
on the covers, and rattling little babies’ banks to
catch coppers from the multitude. The usual
charitable expedients, from the big “ bequest ” of
Dives to the sixpenny “social,” must be nearly
played out as reliable props when good-natured
women take to infesting street-corners all day
with the money-boxes, and look as grateful for a
sprat as they used to do for a whale. And isn’t it
a far-away cry from the lucky digger who had to
be held back from throwing nuggets at the cat ti-
the spectacle of nearly four hundred women
begging like professionals for threepenny-bits?
. Charity usually makes matchwood of conven-
tional barriers. Nobody thinks oblique thoughts
of the nice girl who kisses cigars to add to their
bazaar value, and the world is very liberal to the
nymph who skirt-dances in the good cause oi
putting the poor Hottentots into trousers. And
yet, do you know, a man came to me with his
hair actually on wires to say that one or two
Hospital Saturday ladies had invaded Tattersall s
marble bar, and were collecting petty cash under
the eye of the debateable damsels on the walls—
whose hair is dressed, at any rate—or so lam led
to believe. Not having seen the works of art in
question, I speak only as the scribes, and perhaps
the paintings aren’t so lively, after all; but,
judging by the amazement of the man alluded to
at the action of the charitable ladies, also lightly
touched upon above, I can only think that even
the greatest Virtue ought to draw the line some-
where, lest she should get “dust on her hems,”
as Cayley Drummle says.
Occasionally the girl who aches to do “ good ”
in the world places herself in very weird positions.
Tor instance, I know an enthusiast who used to
take in a—let us say nunnery—in her regular
“district visiting ” and hold more or less improv-
ing conversations with the yellow-haired abbess
who would sometimes make graceful apologies if
her donation was smaller than usual—explaining
that the times were so depressed. She used also
to formally present her household to the ignorant
Christian “ visitor ” who, on being introduced to
the fourteenth Miss Blank, made the remark,
“How many more daughters nave you, Mrs.
——? ” It was not, I believe, until she met an
unduly familiar strange man in the passage as she
went out one afternoon that this earnest worker
dropped that phase of social mission-work like a
hot brick.
By the way, I hear through a perfectly proper
channel and in the most possible manner in the
world (thank Heaven for married women) that the
Mrs. Beter Jermyns, of Sydney, and probably
elsewhere, have a deep and well-grounded horror
of the old ladies of the moral brigades who intrude
into rose-coloured and sub-rosa drawing-rooms as
“ book-canvassers,” and set their cotton umbrellas
against the piano, and begin to wrestle frantically
with the lady of the house—a spiritual wrestle, of
course. The statement that if you want a thingdone
you must do it yourself appears to be the motto of
the adventurous fin-de-sikde moralist, and the
sulphur-breathing tract with which the abandoned
man generally lit his cigar makes way for the
sulphur-breathing woman when he cannot make
tinder without burning the house down.
I am in receipt of a copy of the Australian
Woman, once the official organ of the whole
league, and if not (I am always rather vague on
Suffrage questions) why not ? Also, how pleased
Lady vV. must be to have her name printed every
week as a previous backer of a radical movement
that she shivers at the mere mention of ! Besides
which, if the Suffrage League has an organ to do
justice to the Surry Hills aspect of Woman’s
Rights, where, I wonder, is the Woolloomooloo
branch of the league—and who is president there ?
Has she bright golden hair or is she “ thinking of
letting it go back to brown ” (A la Lady Orreyd)
on the strength of getting a vote? By the way,
the name of the A. W.’s proprietor is Orfl. You
pronounce it to meet the case.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.


THE OLDEST LIFE INSURANCE OFFICE STILL LEADS THE VAN.
THE
MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Op NEW YORK.
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
ESTABLISHED 1843.
ASSETS, DECEMBER 31, 1893 £.38,338.332 13 7
INCOME FOR 1893 £8,614,608 19 5
SURPLUS .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• " £3,686,367 6 8
FOUNDED AND CONDUCTED ON PURELY MUTUAL PRINCIPLES.
CLAIMS SETTLED ON THE SPOT IMMEDIATELY ON PROOF OF TITLE.
POLICIES CURRENT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
AUSTRALIAN DEPARTMENT;
(Company's own building in course of erection)
MARTIN PLACE &. PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TEMPORARY OFFICES: .. •• 131 PITT STREET.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHAT IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding- and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got for sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you ? Will you do your business at
Y O 3Ft 30 3E3 Jrl 3XT»S ?
ANTHONY HOKUEUN’S ?
IST SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY ISI
BUT EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
•may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and yetting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived in town.
ONLY ADDRESS op the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS:
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
H AY MARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
The Wild Cat Column.
A.J.S. Bank shares (£6 ss. paid up) can now be
bought in a declining market for about 325., and the £8
■hares of the City of Sydney Bank are still offering at £4,
with the same eternal absence of buyers. The Bank of
N Z's 105 s. shares can be had for 565., and the fall which
started some six months ago seems to be continuous.
National of Australia (£5 piid) are selling at 18s., and the
shares of tne Bank of Victoria, which used to have a
feeble and tottering quotation of ss. or so, seem to have
almost vanished out of the share-list. As for these two
■rv-cially depressing institutions, the Colonial of Aus-
tralia and the City of Melbourne, they appear never to
have any quotation at all, possibly because there is no coin
small enough for the occasion. With the exception of about
tour hi*- banks of undoubted solidity, the course of every-
thin 0, is steadily downward, and even the gag about
confidence being restored is almost abandoned. Nobody
has energy enough now to talk much about the restora-
tion of anything.
(Preference shares are almost as hopeless as the
.other variety. The £lO preference-shares of the Com-
mercial of Australia, in pariicular, can be had for 665.,
which is a solemn evidence that the bottom has fallen out
f b,e re-construction boom. The diva, on preference-
.hares are mostly tolerably secure while the banks last; it
is the horrid fear that the hanks won’t last which causes
them to be hawked about at one-third their value.
* ♦ ♦ *
The Bank of N.S.W. pays a 10 per cent, divi-
,a,.nd and shows a profit of £78,451 for the half-vear.
■The solidity of this ancient institution is so absolutely
tbevond question that its figures excite little interest.
1 ' • ♦ * *
'The National Bank of Australasia shows a
rofit of £31,000 for the half-year, out of w'hich it pays a
v.. of 5 per cent, on preference capital, and 4 per cent,
on ordinary capital. Also, it wipes off £5OOO of recon-
struction expense and carries a decent balance forward.
T ie National is a solid insiitutmn which has always kept
c’ear of boom frenzy, and h is never been even suspected
of any shady practices, and of all the Vic. resurrected
hanks it and the good old Bank of Victoria are the two
ithat are best worth preserving.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
still keeps a good second place among purely Australian
offices Last year, £139,703 were add°d to the funds,
which now stand at the eminently respectable total of
£1 666,724, and the annual income has climbed up to
£389,000. , * , *
The outspoken remarks of Leishmann, at the
City of Melbourne bank meeting, resulted in a black eye
for one of the parlies principally interested. After all, it’s
irou"h on the shareholders that a big official of one concern
should be a big official in another concern—when, to put
it very mildly, interests seriously conflict.
* • * *
The Argus last week, in giving extracts from
two English financial papers dated six weeks hack,
announcing the probabilities of amalgamation between
M‘Ewan’s and M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg (both limited),
wo iders that “the man in the street” should have been
.circulating rumour on the subject for some time past. If
the Argos were only wide-awake, it would know that the
whole scheme had been cabled to Melbourne two months
ago and that every man in the streets of Melbourne,
except the Argus, had the details of the proposed amalga-
®n ition at his fingers’ ends.
* » • •
The Colonial Bank of Australia publishes a
•gaunt and hungry balance-sheet which serves as another
dismal commentary on the wavs of reconstruction. The
profit for the half-year is £7853, and a div. of 5 per cent.
®n preference capital absorbs £7531, leaving about £3OO
on hand. There is no div. on ordinary capital, and no
sign of one is apparent upon the furthest horizon. A
swing of £lO,OOO a year has been made by cutting down
salaries and generally grinding the hones of the miserable
employ 6 on the doorstep, otherwise there would he
ipcactically no profit at all. The presmt paid-up capital
•of the Colonial is £742,000. therefore the profit realised
*ll round is just 2 per cent, per an. And just here two
ghastly conundrums arise, for the consideration of the
ordinary shareholder in particular.
In the first place, the Colonial charges ordinary
hank rates (from 7 to 9 per cent.) on its advances, and as
it keeps the smallest cash reserve in Australia it has very
little money lying idle. Allowing that it makes no profit
at all on its* note-issue and its £2,500,000 or so of deposits
—which is an utterly impossible supposition—it still
ought to realise fully 5 per cent, per an. net profit, for its
expenses are very small. Therefore, as it only realis s 2
per cent., what proportion of its capital is sunk in dead
speculations which pay no interest whatever? Also, when
an investment pays absolutely no interest, what is the
chance of it ever paying the principal? Further, if it
doesn’t pay the principal, where will the Colonial Bank
get to? Also, this calculation, as above-mentioned, is
based on the assumption that the deposits yield no profit
at all, which further implies that at least a-third of them
are locked up in investments where there is no interest
whatever, and where the principal can’t he got at. And
it further implies that most of the £lOO,OOO represented
by the note-issue is in the same place. When an institu-
tion lends out money at a rate which should yield about
five per cent., and yet only realises two, the most natural
inference is that three-fifths of the cash has got into a
tight place somewhere.
Secondly, the Colonial, up to a very short time
Ibefore the suspension, professed to he earning 10, 12, and
14 per cent, divs., and adding decent sums to reserve.
The suspension, in itself, did very little damage to the invest-
ments, made no reduction in the rate of interest, and, in
•short, did no serious injury to the div. whatever. Therefore,
if the past profits were fairly earned, the awful fall is utterly
unaccountable. And, in any case, a full and independent
investigation into the affairs of the Colonial is urgently
wanted.
* * ♦ •
The City of Melbourne Bank held a rowdy and
riotous meeting a we°k ago, in the course of which the
board came in for much language. The net profits for the
half-year were about £7OOO, out of which the preference
shareholders get a 5 per cent, div., and the ordinary share-
holders get nothing. The profit realised is at the rate of
rather less than 3 p°r cent, per annum. Therefore,
the two gruesome problems alluded to in the case of
the Colonial Bank want to he answered here also. Firstly,
how much of the money is looked up in hopelessly unre-
munerative investments to produce this awful result?
And, secondly, seeing that the bank has about as much
money to lend, and lends it at much the same rates as
before the burst, where have the 15 per shent divs. gone
to? A small falling off could reasonably be expected, but
this awful discrepancy arouses dire misgivings about these
old boom balance-sheets.
* * * *
The protracted hearing of that application to
•oust the Federal Bank liquidator is a monstrous example
of legal robbery. The cosily affair has been doddering
along for many months at the expense of the busted
bank’s creditors, although the result has been certain
from the start.
* ♦ • ♦
A big Southern bank offers overdrafts to
big customers at 10 per cent, less than any of the
sounder banks. To swell the volume of business, no
doubt.
* * * »
When the Federal burst, it was doing splendid
business in Adelaide, and even now its local assets will
realise nearly 80s. in the £. The liquidators in Adelaide,
although they have had to force things, can already pay
15s. in the £.
* * * ♦
The recent committal of a certain-individual for
alleged fraud is a perfect legal godsend to more than one
daily paper.
* * • »
The Mayor of a certain Australian town was
ordered by the Court to preside at two meetings of an
insolvent financial co. in liquidation. The whole business
occupied under two hours. His Worship now sends in
his bill for 50 guineas.
♦ * * •
The Royal Bank of Australia shows a net
profit for the past half year of £3258. As this emaciated
figure would only pay a div. at the rate of 2 per cent,
per annum the hoard wisely decided to carry forward the
dismal little amount and say no more about it. The
cheerful statement that it is impossible to estimate the
“ultimate losses” casts a still darker and more baleful
shadow over the aforesaid £3258.
• * * *
The Mutual Life Association of Australasia,
after a prosperous year’s business. has raped its funds to
the respectable total of £1,002,470. It is the first ambi-
tion of every young office to get past the “ million point,”
and the Mutual naturally indulges in a whoop of exulta-
tion on the occasion. Its total yearly income is now over
£200,000; the expens's are being steadily reduced ; and
the interest on funds invested is sufficient to cover all
losses without trenching on premiums.
» * • »
Melbourne tram shares have revived to 7s. Gd.
Me mwhile, it is alleged that the rails, the wood-blocks,
and the engines need a lot of renewing, and that a huge
expense must shortly he incurred for repairs. Th 're is no
prospect of a div., and the co., after a gleam of better
things owing to the recent increase in revenue, seems to
be sinking in the same old sea of troubles once more.
Probably the rise in share values only means that the
market is being judiciously rigged in order to let some
big holders get out before the worst happens.
* » ♦ *
I {Stated that a Newcastle (N.S.W.) trust has
been definitely fixed up ; that six colleries, some big ones,
are already in it; that the valu ition has been cut down
enormously sines last attempt, and that five-sixths of the
capital comes from Scotland whosi faith in Newcastle coal
has never wavered.
» * * *
When a certain N.S.W. statesman was alien
in English society be received so many pressing invita-
tions from the “ elite ” that ’e didn’t know were ’e are!
but he responded to nearly all those from distinguished
people, and ignored those of the “colonials ” in London. A
present “colonial” lion at ’Ome is likely to reverse the
process and have to regretfully decline many swell
engagements, in consequence of a four-word cable from
Australia.
• * • •
Three Melbourne bank-managers are in London
with complete statements of their customers’ positions,
both commercially and in relation to the securities held
by the banks against overdrafts.
• • » *
Walpole’s axiom that “every man lias bis price”
was never better exemplified than by the fact that a
certain South rn writ-list, frequently supposed immacu-
late, but which is the means of levying black-mail, sup-
pressed, last week, the name of a speculating merchant,
who was writted for over £2OOO.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Wilson, of London, the Investor’s Review
howler, says that the troubles of Australia are mostly
owing to “ the insatiable greed of the squatters in over-
stocking their runs,” and suggests that it would be a fair
retribution if half the population of Australia was sen-
tenced to die by hunger and thirst. The Bedlamite of the
Investor’s Review is evidently under the impression that
the Australian people are all squatters, and that every
full-grown male in the country lias an overstocked run.
♦ * * * ,
It is now admitted that the firm of Lorimer,
Rome & Co. (Melb.), was insolvent at [the time of James
Lorimer's death —Sept., 1889.
* * * *
Who is to definitely charge with the Indulgence
of a scandalous parsimony the hank authorities for
leaving with but one hand Barraha branch where the
manager was murdered ? The 8.N.5.W., The Bulletin
hears, keeps at least two hands at every branch.
* » • »
Since the jumping business got into full blast at
Coolgardie, the Melb. and Sydney brokers have been un-
able even to give away stock in undeveloped mines. An
edifying piece of news is that at (pro ably jumper-pro-
moted) meetings on the field, it has been decided that the
Minister should he asked to ratify in every case the
decision of the Warden. This proposal to hand over to a
minor official at the other end of nowhere all the powers
at present vested in the Minister for Lands, the Supreme
Court and the Privy Council, is hardly calculated to please
bona-fide investors. That a mere magistrate, sit-
ting, as it were, almost in the dark, should be endowed
with absolute and final jurisdiction over millions’ worth of
property, is a proposal admirably characteristic of
the sort of people who toil not hut live as
mouohards and informers; for the warden, in matters
affecting leases, sits to pronounce upon technicalities only,
whereas the Minister, wheat present reviews his decisions,
sits as a judge both of law and equity.
It has always puzzled The Bulletin why
the whole value of a forfeited lease should he claimable
by the informer. Why shouldn’t it be auctioned by the
Crown, and the proceeds put into the State Treasury-
minus, possibly, an allowance to the lessee for any valu-
able work he may have done?
It is stated that after the Coolgardie Warden
recommended the forfeiture of a valuable lease the other
day, the papers in the case were taken down post haste
from the local mining-office to Perth, by the jumpers’
solicitor!—the idea apparently being to rush the case
past the Minister before the absent lessee had any chance
of appeal. However, the Minister didn’t happen to be in
such a hurry as the jumpers.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s Coolgardie correspondent:—
The most valuable statement at the farewell banquet
to Mr. Begelhole, late manager of Bayley’s, was
made by Mr. Gifford, representative of John Taylor and
Sons, of London. He said he had known Begelhole in
India, where he bore the highest reputation for industry,
integrity and ability.
The air at Coolgardie is thick with water-supply
schemes, just as it was on the Barrier in the early days.
Strangely enough, too, Joe Nolan, the originator of the
Stephen’s Creek scheme, is to the fore here with rather a
good idea for impounding the storm-waters.
Bayley’s No. 1 South mine has put on 150 men
to excavate a dam, the third on the field, exclusive of the
Govt, tanks. There are probably more leaseholders pray-
ing for a drought than for rain, the idea being to obtain
further exemption on the old want-of-water cry.
Unless fresh rushes break out there will be
crowds of unemployed at Coolgardie. Already' men are
offe ing to take less than t'<e standard rate, and unem-
ployed meetings are held daily.
* * * *
The Innarnincka, during the last week in April,
brought 154 diggers/rom Coolgardie.
» * » *
Dear Bulletin, —Despite the number of unem-
ployed on Coolgardie more men still come, and all through
exaggerated reports of the gold finds. The gold in
VVestralia is very patchy, therefore all the alluvial finds
are worked out ere they are made known by the pro-
spectors, who often delve on them for months and months
and clean out all the metal ; then they apply for a
reward-claim, and say that they’ got the lot in one or two
days. That is the sort of thing which swells the rush.
On Coolgardie now there are fully 4000 men,
most of whom are dry-blowing, and I don’t believe there
are 20 making much more than full tucker, while most of
them are not even getting the colour of gold. There are
a lot of leases held which are not working through con-
tinued exemptions being granted. Yet, with the excuse
of “ no water” ever on their lips the lease-holders make
not the slightest preparations for water-conservation. In
a word, me ground is held only' for speculative purposes.
Many predict a most disastrous winter on the field unless
means are taken to provide employment, as the workless
men have little money and will not be able to get back
home ; and while food is so terribly high in price people
cannot give much away.
Although 2in. of rain fell at Coolgardie a short
time ago, waiter is now scarce. It would require 7in. of
rain to fill the tanks, and that to fall all at once ; and the
pioneers say that the annual rainfall of Coolgardie doesn’t
exceed 7in. So much for the chance of the Govt, tanks
ever filling.
Coolgardie enjoys impromptu open-air concerts,
and you hear temperance lecturers bellowing in the
“ streets ” nightly. But there is very little need for tem-
peraicse-sermons, for most people seem well-nigh teetotal.
Necessity', the mother of invention, is a very sob r lady.—
Thos. S. M'Gcjirb, Coolgardie (W.A.), April 7, 1895.
* • * ♦
Summed up in a sentence :—“Capital, not
labour, is what Coolgardie requires at present.” Whether
the field will ultimately be more grateful to capital than
it is now to labour remains to be seen. By the way, it is
noticeable that all the unreserved condemnations of Cool-
gardie as a reefing field, published so far, are anonymous.
* * » •
An old N.S.W. fossicker, who has been ten
m mths on Coolgardie and found some nuggets at
Kurnalpi, turned up in Sydney, last week. His friends
didn’t know him; he was so thin and haggard-looking.
He thinks, “ It’s them lizard eggs," of which at times he
was compelled to eat a lot. The Bulletin commends this
to all civil servants who would like to go to Coolgardie.
* * • *
Begelhole proved the Coolgardie rainfall between
28th February, 1893, and 27th February, 1894, to have
been 11 inches 75 points—just enough to keep several
batteries going if the dams and tanks had been ready to
receive it.
* • * ♦
Begelhole says Bayley’s never looked so well as
when tie left. He puts down the stone at grass at 50z.,
and accounts for the deprecatory remarks made about
it to the fact that many tons of stone which will go from
30 to 50oz. have been carefully buried, and the poorest
stone put outside, from which strangers form their
opinions. He believes that gold as rich as got at 50 and
117 feet levels will be found at the 220 ft. as soon as they
reach the shoot, and that the mine is in a position to
increase previous yields with the use of three heads.
• • * •
According to Begelhole, the Bayley’s No. 1
South will yet run the parent mine close. He estimates
the 5(50 tons at grass at 60z.. and says they are now bag-
ging stone for safety. It could pay divs., he avers, with
the use of three heads.
* » ♦ •
G. D. Meudell says Bayley’s is fairly in the
hands of the dealers, who cause it to fluctuate electri-
cally.
• » • •
Two opinions of Coolgardie: “As a reefing
field it will prove one of the greatest frosts Australia has
yet seen ; very little value is attached to many of the
leases and if they were thrown up to-morrow not one in a
hundred would be repetrged.” The other: “Coolgardie
is hard-up for want of water, hut there is no question
about the gold. The place is full of it, but many duffers
are floated.”
W. D. O. Donovan, formerly Bendigo town-
clerk, after a visit, describes Coolgardie rush as over-
done ; advises Govt, to build a railway and declares the
immediate necessity is to stop the mad exodus of the
moneyless from the east.
* ♦ • *
The great thirst at Coolgardie is daily deepening
and widening, and want of vvater has driven many outside
prospectors hack to the centres. Tales of less gold and
more duffers are coming through ; and one man even goes
so far as to say that the great Bayley’s reef, which has a
knack of pinching out, may pinch out once too often.
And, more than ever, it is plain that men without money
had better tie millstones round their necks and cast them-
selves into a swamp than go to Coolgardie.
» * » »
Mr. A. Stewart, late manager of the Tharsis
copper mine, Spain, takes office as assistant general
manager of Broken Hill Proprietary mine.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
During ’93, Sydney Mint bought 171,0970 z.
N.S.VV. gold, or 26,8380 z. more than in ’92.
• * • *
Dear Bulletin, —You and others ask what
booms Wyalong. One concise answer is, “The delay of
the crushing but I would rather say that the delay is
retarding it. There is no salting here. In all the
average claims there is good gold. Experienced miners
will say there is no real reef ; hut it’s only experienced
miners who are not in it, and have no teeth to speak of.
In one case I know of, the miners were so satisfied that a
neighbouringreef passed through th"ir claim that they
sank six shafts. The last is 86ft. deep, and then they
drove and at last cut it. Tills is (he deepest shaft on the
Mallee Bull or Neild’s No. 1 line (they are identical), and
is a long way from the nearest on gold. The thi kness is
2ft., and there is gold all through it. Without backing it
could not have been done. The miners are the Pressers
Brothers, and the backers, Grange Brothers. —S. tiik VV.,
Wyalong, 28,4/94.
♦ * » ♦
Published output of Wentworth Proprietary
mine for year ended March—ll,446 loos for BO7ooz. free
gold, and 2973az. from pyrites, treated in England. One
of its offshoots, the Aladdin, is said to have returned
£20,000 divs. during the last four months. Good if ( rue,
• * * *
N.S.W. adds another div. gold-mine to the
brief list. Tilden's, Guudagai, declared a 3d. dividend
last week.
• ♦ * ♦
New crushings being scarce at Wyalong, some of
the old ones are revived-a very common N.S.W. prac-
tice. On the whole, however, Wyalong prospects are
improving.
* • » *
Someone at Sofala, N.S.W., has got 4oz. gold
from 10 loads wash, and it is proclaimed abroad that two
years ago he got £5O from the prospecting vote to woik
this very ground. Wonderful I
* ♦ ♦ *
Zebia Goodman, who in Sydney won every-
one's esteem, is returning, to South Africa. Probably, be
has had reason to change his opinion re the value of Pam-
bula mines, one of which, he once declared, would, if it
were in Africa, float for a million.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Frederick the Great mine, near Bendigo, floated
in England. It paid divs. for many years, and has been
in the slump for the last 12 or 14. The £15,000 working
capital may put it on its legs.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
A Vic. coal mine, Cool Creek, output for the
fortnight, 6313 tons.
♦ • * •
Star of the East-62nd div. of Is., and a new
make of stone 15ft. thick found in the 1200 ft. level, show-
ing gold and carrying a fair amount of galena.
• • * *
Ex-manager Begelhole, of Bayley’s Reward
mine, has joined the provisional directorate of Bayley s
No. 1 North Co., and will also act as consulting manager
and general adviser on his return to Coolgardie. Mr.
B >u- elhole reports concerning the new vent ire : “Taking
the bearing of the Gorrie reef, at present worked by the
Bayley’s No. 1 South, I am of opinion it must run across
your Lase. There are also other runs of stone in the
lease which I consider well-worth prospect mg.” Par-
ticulars of the new venture appear in The Bulletin s
advertising columns. Mr. G. D. Meudell, of 59 Queen-
street, Melb., and Mr. Horace Woolnough, of 03 Pitt-
street, Sydney, are the brokers.
* ♦ • •
Prospecting for the, Lucknow contact-formation
proceeds in one of Dal ion s paddocks, close to Orange.
Two tons recently treated yielded 3oz. gold, and “ great
hopes are entertained."
* ♦ ♦ •
The Grey Horse mine, Ballarat, having proved
the reef (by driving through it at the 100, 176 and 325 ft.
levels) to be of great size and to average 7dwts., it is now
intended to erect 40-head and a plant capable of taking
the shaft down 2000 ft.
* • * *
Fifty p.c. antimony-ore quoted at .£9; yet metal
brings £36. Why this tremendous margin?
° ♦ * ♦ ♦
Rutherglen mines, Vic., are winning attention
because of their excellent and steady yields.
• ♦ » *
Why not make cyanide in Australia ? At
present the raw material, chrome, is sent to England and
France, and when the cyanide gets back it is 1/6 a lb. It
could be made here for less than 6d., and that would
mean reducing the cost of the cyanide process about 50
per cent. Like other dangerous chemicals, it is shipped
on deck at a very heavy freight without risk and with the
rio-ht of throwing it overboard at any moment.
B * * * *
There is a steady demand for tickets in the
V.D.L. Lottery. Applications have even been received
from Russia.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing-Word
Competition, No. 13.
The above closed with a pool of exactly A 232,
which has to be divided among ,20 successful com-
petitors, making the dividend .£ll 12a. The
missing word was “CRUEL.” Among the
winners is a gentleman who has written, or called
round in person, after every previous competi-
tion, to point out that the word selected
made neither sense nor grammar, and The
Bulletin is pleased to learn that for once this
critic is fully satisfied and doesn’t propose lodging
any objection, so that the staff expects to have a
pleasant rest. Among the more remarkable
guesses were “Eldorado,” “newspaper,” and
“diamonds.” Also, one excited individual putin
“ congenital,” and another wasted his shilling on
“congener.” The following are the names and
addresses of the winners :
M. Alexander, Hope Cottage, Spicer-street, Woollahra,
Sydney.
Wm. M'Groutiier, Cunnamulla, Queensland.
G. Goodwin, 21 Airlie-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.
Dr. M. VVjsbb and David Wuitlaw, Adavale, Queens-
land.
A. W. M ‘Carthy, 76 Elizabetb-streei, Sydney.
H. Thomas. Prospect Road, Sale. Vic.
M. J. Elwood, Box 67, Broken Hill, N.S.W.
A. J. Keymond, The Mills, Forbes.
M. Salviati, Gregory Terrace, Brisbane.
Mrs. Wilson, 28 Nioijolson-st., Balmain, Sydney.
Stewart Wilson, Sydney Observatory, 4 guesses.
Mrs. Ritso, G.P.0., Sydney.
W. E. Byrne, 118 Pitt-st., Sydney.
E. Petherick, Hotel Metropole, Sydney.
Miss Nixon. Craigend House, Dariinghurst, Sydney.
Miss J. Knott, 159 Glebe Road, Sydney.
Miss E. Melbourne, Morningion, Gregory Terrace, Q.
Coupon for Missing Word Competition No. 14
will be found inside the back cover of the present
issue.


TKe OldßleadL
Wlustey
Horse
Cellar
WHI'
DIRIOT SttOM OISTIU.ERS,
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLOW
A (AATUBtO SCOTCH MALT
! A
Edinburgh
*MM*<
• Mil
lilnlihlult
m
«i
i VAVV
MIIIIUIM*
MVV
Mlit
Mill
toll
llf«
'’llhtHli
■Minn'
mm
Mil
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Ealchin, Johnston St Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL
RESTORATIVE.
CLEMENTS TONIC
RESTORES VIGOUR, HEALTH,
AND VITALITY OF YOUTH.
CURES
WEAKNESS,
LASSITUDE,
DEBILITY,
INDIGESTION,
PROMPTLY AND PERMANENTLY.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Mr. James Robertson, miner, West Wallsend,
N.S.W., who writes on February 17th, 1893:
For a number of years I have suffered from
chronic dyspepsia. I have been under a number
of doctors, and what relief I derived was only
temporary. Finding I gained no permanent
relief I gave Clements Tonic a trial, and the
benefit I derived simply surprised myself—after
so many other remedies failing—it removed pains
from which I had been suffering for years. My
appetite increased daily, and also my strength.
I am only too happy to give my testimony, as a
plain working miner, as to the great benefit I
derived from your valuable Clements Tonic. All
my fellow-workmen have known me for years, and
will take the above as a true statement.—Yours
sincerely, James Robertson, miner, West Walls-
end, N.S.W.
WATSON'S
DUNDEE =.
- " WHISKY
—IS, THE
BEST IN THE MARKET.
Personal Items.
“ Scotch-cold ” —Gov. Duff.
No Australian knight has been sent to
prison, thus far.
The latest threatened development: King
Seddon the First of Samoa.
Gale, the comet-finder, clerks in the
Barrack-street (Sydney) Savings Bank.
Hori Grey’s hobnobbing with royalty may
lead to the old man ingloriously ending as a Lord,
Minister Suttor represents N.S.W. at the
Canadian Conference. He probably wants a title
as badly as any man in Australia.
“ It is advisable for M.’sP. to bring their
wives to town,’’says Purves. Well, and don’t they ?
Ask the kawphy’Pallis managers.
A Sydney suburban O, of E. clergyman
is said to be worth =£loo,ooo. Yet his assistant
receives the usual curate’s allowance.
Three digressive homilies is Chief Justice
Madden’s average. His parentheses are para-
graphs, and the thread is seldom taken up again.
Professor Herkomer, in a lecture on art,
bracketed Phil. May and Charles Keene as the
two ablest black-and-white artists of modern times.
Jawbone Patterson addresses Melbourne
reporters as “old man.” It is his way of being
friendly. In some moods he gives them drinks of
whisky.
The Hungarian General Woinarski, col-
league of Kossuth, kept the bookstall at Spencer-
street railway-station, Melb., and his sons are
able medicos.
N.S.W. ex-Premier Parkes is opposed to
capital punishment; also to flogging. Premier
Dibbs has just announced that he also is opposed
to capital punishment.
The Catholic Times, Wellington (M.L.),
has just died, after costing Archbishop Redwood
,£5OOO. During the regime of its late editor, Mr.
James Evison, who left it a year or two ago, it
was probably the cleverest and most entertaining
religious paper the world has ever seen.
Francis Donohue has left Sydney for
London, where he hopes to grow a literary con-
nection. Mr. Donohue, long associated with S.M.
Herald, is a most talented journalist and literary
man, and is identical, by the way, with “Arthur
Gayll,” who wrote The Bulletin’s “History of
Botany Bay.”
One of the
central figures of
Melb. during the
boom-era was an
immaculately - at-
tired English swell
who, with his long
frock-coat, white
spats, and droop-
ing mou Jaches,
looked like the
typical clubm an in
the London illus-
trated weeklies.
He used to call
himself (say)
Bunce - Vernon :
whether he really
possessed any re-
lationship to that
historical family
is another pair of
sleeves. However,
he was not above
receiving stray
shillings and half-
crowns from any
“mug” he could
strike, and
“ mugs ’■ were
thicker then. One
day he strolled
into Golds-
brough’s office
swinging his cane
and taking pre-
cedence over some
half-dozen people
waiting. “Mr.
Horsfall in?” he
asked the junior
clerk, with such
an air of superio-
rity that the youth
thought he must
own at least eight
stations. “No,
sir ! but Mr. Wes-
ton is. Will he
do?” “ Um !
Um !” mused
Bunce - Vernon.
Then suddenly—
“ Yaas ! he’ll do.”
Weston came and
the aristocrat im-
mediately asked ;
“You Mr, Wes-
ton?” “Yes!
that’s my name.”
“Lend’sfive bob.”
Weston opened
his eyes and made
a rambling state-
ment about being
an utter stranger
and himself being
a married man.
“ Ah ! married ?”
inquired Bunce-
Vernon. “Yes.” “Pwah davil!” commiserated
the mendicant, turning on his heel and leaving
the building.
Pattison, erstwhile Mount Morgan mil-
lionaire, has been divorced from much of his
golden pile. Smitten with paralysis, ho sits all
day watching the weighing-out of beef and mutton
in his butcher’s shop at Rockhampton. But even
in comparative adversity he keeps his promises.
Some vears ago, when rolling in wealth, he put his
name down for ,£lOOO for a new St. Andrew’s
Church at Rockhampton. The church is now
built, and a few days ago “Billy” scraped up the
£lOOO and paid it over.
J ustice, the Sydney paper which is being
prosecuted for libelling Tom Slattery, has a poem
signed “Jesus Christ” in its issue of April 28.
It is a remarkably bad poem.
The most popular man in Queensland at
the present time is, beyond cavil, Governor
Norman, who has the happy knack of making
himself agreeable to all classes.
Judge Pat. Real no doubt meant to com-
pliment the clergy when he said, at Brisbane
Hibernian Society’s banquet, that “the Irish
people were the priests’ children.”
Jos. Symes : “I have recommended truth>
honesty, goodness by precept and example as con*
sistently and earnestly as the best of my enemies.’’
Good boy, joe, and now you cant like them.
The pulpit from which Rev. T. Playford,
father of S. A.’s new Agent-General, preached in
the Lindsay Circus Chapel is now used as a
prisoner’s dock in the Hindmarsh (S.A.) Police-
court.
Dear Bulletin, —He Jerome’s plagiarism
of “ Banjo’s ” “ Ace of Snowy River,” I see that in
a following issue he has to inform correspondents
that the verse “is not by Rudyard Kipling.”—
Snell.
Kong Sing, son of a Chinese storekeeper
at Inverell (N.S. W.), is articled clerk to a Sydney
lawyer. We may yet live to see the wily Celestial
correcting Jack Want’s law, or howling down the
blatant Purves.
Randolph Want, erstwhile of Sydney, is
engaged in wine-growing in the South of France,
somewhere in the vicinity of Cannes. This, no
doubt, by way of diversion, as he still practises as
a solicitor in London.
Cabled that M. Auguste Couvreur, husband
of “Tasma, the Australian authoress,” is dead.
Who is M. Couvreur, that the great heart of the
Australian people should be wrung like this, and
fifteen-and-ninepence wasted ?
Troubridge Critchell, of whose English
doings Australia reads so much, was a clerk,
certainly not a “ pen-bucketer,” under Dodd S.
Clark, in Townsville ; but is now the Brisbane
Courier’s “own special ” in London.
In the Speight v. Syme case last week
Purves, Q.C., remarked that if the railway man
could afford two counsel he could surely afford
the “paltry sum necessary to purchase a copy of
the shorthand notes.” Duffy, acting for Speight,
replied that all counsel have not the same
rapacity and desire for gain, and may sometimes
feel bound to appear in cases for small fees. Score
a notch to Duffy.
A LAPSE OF MEMORY.
ALDERMAN HICKS : “ By-the-by, I didn’t see you at the Aldermen’s picnic
yesterday!”
ALDERMAN SNICKS : “Didn’t you? By Jove! Well, I didn’t get as bad as
that. I saw you there, and heard you propose my health ? ”
Chief Justice Madden’s weakness for speak-
ing a piece from the Bench is becoming too
grotesque. And moral homilies, mostly full of
stereotyped foolishness, don’t come well from a
cushiony gentleman with a florid countenance, a
fat salary, and an elaborately-waxed moustache.
His Honor should either abandon his long, solemn
addresses, or comb and wash the stiffening out of
his lip-hair. The Bulletin denies that any man
can be impressive—especially when addressing a
starved would-be suicide—while his face is orna-
mented with a rat-tailed moustache, betraying
evidence of half-an-hour’s careful nursing.
Brisbane Courier Buzacott, who has aged
greatly in the struggles of the last five years, has
given up fighting the inevitable, and filed a peti-
tion in insolvency, with liabilities of .£21,880. The
trouble rests with that white elephant, the
Courier’s palatial offices —the biggest newspaper
buildings in Australia. Buzacott is a decent
fellow, and even Brisbane Telegraph is sorry for
his misfortunes-especially as it has also a white
elephant to support.
WHAT A PROSPECT!
SULLIVAN: “Phwat’s that ye say, Gilligan? A man always snaazes
triminjus when he’s gettin’ typhoid faver?”
GILLIGAN: “Tis the solemn trut’, Sullivan,”
SULLIVN: “Thin, phwat a toime Ikey Solomons there’ll have, uv he
gets typhoid!”
Ex-Attorney-General Stock (S.A.), who
lately set out from Oodnadattai, the far-northern
railway terminus, with a prospecting expedition
bound for Coolgardie, was smitten by sunstroke
when half-way across, and has had to be returned
to Adelaide.
Q. weather-prophet Wragge lately received
the following communication from the Gulf : “To
Mr. Wragge, rainmaker, Brisbane. Here, yon
knock this game off. I’ve got 3ft. of water on my
selection. We’ve had enough of you.—Signed,
John Blank.”
A certain parson who has been “ making a
splurge,” was primed-up for his recent “sport-
ing ” sermons by a newspaper reporter. When a
man in a pulpit utters penny journal remarks on
a common, sinful subject, he is immediately
hailed as a most enlightened exponent of broad
ideas.
Several correspondents write to say that
the conquering Salvationist boss hero, Coombes,
didn’t travel first-class to England, as alleged ; he
went second. Well, Christ never went even
second, but always a bad third. The Salvation
Army will die when it becomes second-class. It
was born third-class,
S. A. Agent-General Playford’s father was
both a minister of the Gospel and a market-gar-
dener. When he got up in years he used, while
weeding the onions, either to lie down flat on his
stomach or to bring a low stool into requisition ;
ho was too stout to stoop. Tom has now reached
the same stage of development.
The most gracefully-built and high-toned-
looking Anglican clergyman in Sydney is Rev.
Soo Hoo Ten (Chinese), who is the very apotheosis
of a courtly curate. His gait would adorn the
main street of Paradise, and inelegance of speech
and manner there are few men in Australia who
would not suffer by comparison with him.
About 20 years ago, old Dean Macartney
was grand Anglican boss, or whatever it is, over
Bendigo district, and created rather a sensation
by stalking into a Sandhurst church with a pair of
scissors, and snipping all the crosses and I.H.S.’s
off the altar-cloths. In his eye they were “Romish
emblems,” and as such were to be sternly and
swiftly discouraged.
MTlwraith, in a speech at a luncheon
given to him and Reid by the “United Empire
Trade League” (run by Colonel All-cheek Howard
Vincent and Jemmy Lowther), declared that there
never was a more untrue saying than the hackneyed
one (he read it from a slip of paper): “Caelum non
animmi mutant,” &c. So another cherished belief
has been shattered by a “colonial” politician.
Kaiser Wilhelm, the “young man in a
hurry,” wants more officers like unto himself in
his army, and has sacked 30 aged generals at one
blow. We have only one General in Australia,
and that is General Dibbs, affectionately exalted
by the N. Y. reporters at the arrest of Telegraph
Wynne, The Bulletin would just like to see
Kaiser Wilhelm try to sack General Dibbs.
James Syder, the present Chairman of
Vic. Railway Commissioners, was a station-master
only when Speight took charge of the concern,
though he had then been 23 years .in the service.
Under the new regime, Mr. Syder obtained rapid
promotion, and his recent appointment to the
chairmanship is, therefore, an endorsement of
Speight’s judgment in regard to men, anyhow.
“The man who is his own lawyer,”'<&c.
Had John Norton, when he sued Crick, M.P.
(N.S.W.), for malicious prosecution, included a
slander-count in his plaint he would probably,
considering the general result of the trial, have got
a verdict on it, and under the Defamation Act he
could then have “ shopped ” the wily one from
West Macquarie. As things are, he cannot, it is
understood, legally do so.
Gov. Gormansfcown, whilst fishing in the
Great Lake, Tas., unguardedly stepped into a
morass and went, ker-plunk, up to his vice-regal neck
in mud. We are told that the fat viscount was held
with his gubernatorial head out of the ooze by a
valiant constable —who was probably saved from,
sinking by the size of his feet—till a number of
shearers chanced along, and hauled Her Majesty’s
representative out of the mud with ropes. The
shearers appear to have had all the fishing. Ifc
isn’t often given to a common jurnbuck-barber to
have a live Governor at the end of his string.
Dear Bulletin,-
In “ Answers to Corres-
pondents ” you say John
O’Shanassy was a draper
and never a butcher. Ex-
cuse me ! On the site of
the present Age office
was a butcher’s shop,
owned by one MoNall,
where O’Shanassy acted
in the dual capacity of
clerk and general sales-
man. After that he kept
a beer-shop (not an hotel,
but under the old beer-
license) known as the
“Black Boy” in Little
Collins-street, between
Swanston and Elizabeth-
streets; thence to another
beer-shop near the pre-
sent Earl of Zetland hotel
in Swanston-street. It
was after this that ho
first opened his draper’s
shop where the Bank of
Victoria now stands,
moving later to larger
premises in Elizabeth-
street, between the boot-
maker’s shop of P. A. 0.
O’Farrell’s father on one
side, and Hoffman, the
butcher’s, on the other.
Hoffman was a German
by birth and was the first
man who ran a barrow in
Melbourne. On the death
of his widow, some
years since, the probate
duty[on theiraccumulated
fortunes took the Vic.
record and has not since
been beaten. Higher up old Elizabeth-street
might have been seen the then lean figure of a
well-known Semitic politician of to-day bailing up
inoffensive diggers and beguiling them into pur-
chasing “fine waistcoats” and “loafiy pants.”
Melb. was a strange place in the early days.
Poor old General Booth seems to have
altogether dropped out of sight. No one hears of
him, nowadays ; no one writes about him ; no one
cables about him. He has simply flickered out.
and become an extinct superstition. The trom-
bone religion is obviously on the down-grade now;
the oversea colony seems to be dead amf buried;
the submerged-tenth has gone bung ; the collec-
tion withereth and the jersey fadeth. When an
idol like this falls nothing will put it on itsrpedestal
again, and unless Booth can be proved' to be
Jack the Ripper no one will ever take # serious
interest in him any more.
A Melb. weekly has a gladsome
paragraph about Prince “Drino,”who, it appears,
is Princess Beatrice’s eldest son. The par. is to
the effect that this princelet is “ a perfect limb,”
and “perpetually getting into mischief.” The
frantic surprise and fatuous glee of the loyal
scribbler, when he or she discovers that a royal
kid has an unkempt nose just like any common
brat, and pitches down on his unwieldy head with
the same blundering iteration, are useful to con-
template. It is, perhaps, useless to remind these
people that princes are quite human till they are
full-grown.
Blue Gown : “Apropos the Victorian Bar,
there need not be much cloaking of Michie’s case
referred to. The parties are both dead, and the
trial was 27 years ago. A surgeon was civilly
proceeded against for assault on a clergyman s
wife, the stir in the township, from which the
affair emanated, being prodigious. The parties
had all being excessively intimate. Suddenly
they cooled off. The surgeon, asked by a gentle-
man friend as to the reason, said off-hand : ‘ Oh,
I suppose it was a case of Potiphar’s wife.’ This
undoubtedly was the cause of the action, which
went for the defendant. The cross-examination
of the lady, by Dawson, was terrible, and is burnt
for ever in the minds of all who heard it.”


WEST AUSTRALIA.
J'ORXUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those who bought
Liind in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
jears back, and fortunes are waiting for those who buy
nowinTPEHTH (the capital city)and ALBANY, WEST
AUSTRALIA.
low ESTATE, PERTH.
endid Building Sites.
Deposit; 10 - Monthly. No Interest.
PERTH CITY LOTS,
I'WajJ-SslO jeficlj. Very Cheap. Easy Terms.
Albany "ac r e bl< > c ff.
Grand position. From 1615 each. Easy Terms.
Title guaranteed perfect. No forfeiture if ill or out of
work. Send for plans and Government map, showing true
position of land.
The INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
Limited,
(Established Perth and Sydney, 1885),
309 Pltt-st.. SYDNEY. W. J. Douglas, Manager.
GRAND vt
! spi
£lO Each.
g
ĝ
PHOTOGRAPHY !
“ Gin a body meet a body cornin’ down the street;
Gin a body snap a body, need a body see’t.
Every laddie has a faddie, why then shouldn’t I?
To snap a face in public place, “A Cameret” I’ll buy.”
Price 355.
YOU PRESS THE BUTTON-WE DO THE REST.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues to
BAKER & ROUSE,
375 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
260 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
69 BUNDLE STREET ADELAIDE
AND—
-46 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
DO YOU SUFFER
from
LIVER COMPLAINT,
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION,
HEARTBURN,
FLATULENCE,
Or any symptoms of a disordered digestive
apparatus ? If so, there is no remedy in the world
so safe and sure to give relief as Fletcher’s Pills
and Clements Tonic. Don’t be misled into wasting
time and money on any of the “All-failing”
nostrums so speciously advertised by designing
quacks and dishonest rogues. Remember, these
two remedies have stood the test of time, that
their merits are proved, and that a few shillings
invested on them may save you weeks and months
of suffering, and, perhaps, pounds of expense, for
they have done so in hundreds of cases, and we
will send you evidence to prove our assertions on
receipt of your name and address. Remember,
delay is dangerous, and that every hour you
neglect your case the complication increases and a
cure becomes more difficult. Shun the cheap
quack doctors and designing nostrum corn pounders;
stick to the remedies Clements Tonic and Fletcher’s
Pills. They are absolutely genuine, have proved
their efficacy in hundreds of cases and will do so
every time. They are sold everywhere and made
only by F. M, Clements, Newtown,gydney.
CHEAP BUiLIHNGr BLOCKS
Close to Hie City of Sydney.
£,20 each Grand Blocks at CARLTON. 8 miles from
Sydney, 40 x 132. Gas and City Water. Asphalt
paths. Easy terms. 14s. per Month.
£8 each Marine Villa Sites, MANLY BEACH. 10s.
Deposit and ss. per Month; no interest. Free
Deeds included in the £B.
£5 each Capital Residential Blocks, ROOTY HILL.
10s. Deposit ; ss. per Month ; no interest. Free
Deeds ; Torrens.
£lO for Blocks 50 x 150 at MERRYLANDS. £3l
for Land 89 x 396 ; cost £65. GUILDFORD
Cheap Lots £5 each ; ss. Deposit; ss. Monthly.
£25 for Land 82 x 190, next Clyde Railway Sheds;
£1 Deposit; 10s. Monthly.
If you want to make Money, buy now. Land will neve r
be Cheaper. Plans sent anywhere ; Post Free. Apply—
K. < r J. V. It HOUGHTON, Auctioneer,
301 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Established 1878.
POLITICAL POINTS.
N.S-Wi question of the day: “ Wii
Parkes oppose Dibbs for Tam worth?”
From present appearances, next N.S.W.
Assembly will contain at least 19 Wesleyan ex-
preachers.
How many people can tell you off-hand
that the public debt of N.S.W. is £67,919,103?
and more to follow.
The Argus, one penny: “We are not at
this time for freetrade, but freer-trade.” “ At this
time 1.” Protection presently.
During the past nine months, in Brisbane
alone £6522 worth of food has been distributed
by Govt, to the starving unemployed.
The most obsequious and obedient creature
on the face of the earth is a Parliamentary candb
date ■ the most aggressive, bombastic bounder, an
M.P.’
English party managers estimate that even
a discredited Government, by clinging to office
during a dissolution, gains an advantage of 30
seats at the general election.
Dr. Schweniger, who thinned Bismarck,
is busy reducing M'ilwraith’s paunch. It is com-
paratively easy to cure the physical fat man ; but,
•das ! who can minister to Eat minds diseased ?
The “ colonial ” swell becomes an unspeak"
able Tory once he sets foot in England. Mr-
Richmond Henty, who now makes constant
appearances in the Morning Post, is a ease in
point.
In three Queensland towns the local
Labour press is engaged in deadly conflict with
Labour M.L. A.’s. Fertile of epithet and profuse
in vocabulary, the rival parties pound away while
Fat Man rubs his hands and smiles.
Rowland Bees, the finest orator S.A. Par-
liament lias seen, revives as a candidate for Play-
ford’s vacant seat. Rees is an architect, and,
like Parsons, another most excellent speaker,
killed his political life by being “ecceritiic.”
The South Pacific developments which led
up to Maoriland or Australasia attempting to
capture Samoa evoked from half-a-dozen N.S. W.
Legislative Councillors one night last week the
exclamation: “What a magnificent opportunity
for a Dailey !”
Commissioner Eddy’s report on the Tas.
railways will, it is understood, recommend altera-
tions in the present system which will save, in one
branch alone, £3OOO a year. That will just enable
Tasmania to import a first-class chief commissioner
of Eddy’s figure.
Melbourne evening papers have less con-
science than a professional jury-rigger. They
vilify Trades Hall people and unionism through-
out the year, and blatantly advertise themselves
in the Eight Hours procession with typical figures
in prominent positions.
The activity of the Anarchists recalls the
words which Wilkie Collins, over a generation
back, put into the mouth of Count Eoseo, as to
the terrible power possessed by chemists, who,
fortunately for the world, are mostly good citizens
of the shopkeeping class.
It is contended by some rascals who heard
Premier Dibbs at Dubbo that the sentence : “ A
Protectionist I intend to remain until someone
discovers for me a better policy, ’ ran in the
original speech, “. . . until someone dis-
covers a better policy for me.”
A. J. WILSON, of the INVESTOR’S REVIEW.
The Argus, moralising on the large income
of jockey Hayes :. “The democracy, how ver,'
resembles am Eastern despot in the lavish gifts
with which it will reward anybody who can amuse
it.” This is crass conservative insolence. Hayes
and his class are the creatures of a set of beefy
“sportsmen” who spoil the dem cracy and who
are fatuously aristocratic in politics.
l( rom | n ent N. S. W. Labour - member :
there is not a member of our party who would
not, if he had a chance, cheerfully vote for the
repeal of the new Electoral Act. We are quite
satisfied that Labour interests will fare worse
under it than under the old law.”
Three years ago S.M. Herald denounced
N.S.W. Labour Leagues and the members the
leagues engineered into Parliament. Now the
same journal as energetically denounces the
leagues but compliments the members on the view
they take of Parliamentary duty. Inference?
The executive of the S.A. Labour-party,
which has just selected three Single-taxers (Birks,
Proud and M'Gregor) to contest Assembly and
Council seats, has almost unanimously resolved
that another plank be added to the platform
affirming the opposition of the party to the Single-
A second female-franchise society has been
formed in Melbourne. Tennyson Smith, the cold-
water puritan, assisted in establishing a branch at
sleepy Geelong, to the accompaniment of prayers
and tea. In politics, as in piety, the average
woman’s ideas must be centred in some “ dear
man.”
The Rosebery Government has awarded a
small pecuniary solace,to the widows and children
of turbulent miners who were shot during the
Featherstone riots. It is but the trifle of £2OO in
all, yet it signifies much for democracy. The
Government admits that a rioting miner doesn’t
quite deserve to be killed on the spot.
The Copeland bacchanalian episode has
got into the ’Orne papers, and Daily News, in
a ponderous leader, inveighs against the “terrible
exposure.” “The evil,” it sagely remarks, “is
said to arise partly from the liberality with which
Governments supply their supporters with cham-
pagne on the eve of critical divisions !’’
Lilley is still to the front. Evidently the
old Dt mocratio war-horse, despite temporary
defeat, sniffs once more the battle political from
THE N.S.W. POLITICAL “FENDER!”
A “fender”is employed to lessen the concussion of two bodies coming into contact. Where
collisions are frequent fenders don’t last long.
afar. He presides at Woman’s Franchise Meetings,
welcomes Labour-leader Glassey on his return,
and in various ways shows no great disinclination
to buckle on his armour afresh for the fray.
“ Corney ” Proud, pious sharebroker and
Labour candidate for East Torrens vice Playford,
was once leader of S. A. Register reporting-staff.
Three years ago he was worth £OO,OOO, made by
lucky share-speculation, but prices fell, and Proud
will henceforth stick to commission business only,
and draw his £2OO p.a. cert, as a Labour M.P.
Josiah Symon, Q.C., finding the Labour-
party too strong in East Torrens (S. A.), has grace-
fully retired from the fight, and Constitutionalism
weeps in anguish. Sim. Newland, a diminutive ex-
Treasurer, whose deficits crushed him out of
politics years ago, is the second choice of the
National Ass, and he will wrestle for victory with
Corney Proud.
MTlwraith, writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, is becoming an out-and-out Im-
perialist. Everything with him now is “ the
Empire.” Wasn’t he the man who talked about
an Australian National party some years ago ? He
has another political toady at his heels—the great
Australian gas-bag, drummer Reid, who plays
second fiddle to him at banquets, and so on.
N.Q. Supreme Court Judge Cooper lately
spent a day in Cooktown equitably apportioning
ten years’ imprisonment and a death sentence
among five of the miscellaneous mongrels who now
infest the province. Cheap labour will soon be
dear if gaols and gallows are built to keep pace
with it. By-the-bye, when are the Javanese mur-
derers of Miss Lyons, at Gerald ton, to be brought
to book ?
The N.S.W. Labour-members who signed
the recent manifesto are—
Messrs. Bavisler, Black, Gann, Clark (G. D.), Cotton,
Danahey, Darnley, Ertilen, Pegail, Fitzgerald, Gardiner,
Hollis, Houghton, Hindle, Langwell, Nicholson, Rae,
Williams and Cook.
Certainly an immensely stronger lot than the 13
who, while refusing to sign the muoh-discussed
arbitary pledge, refrained from signing the mani-
festo—or the three members who have knuckled
under to the Labour Electoral League and signed
the pledge.
N.S.W. Government recently got rid of a
lot of extra hands from the Electoral Office. Last
week those remaining were working overtime. It
is soothing to the empty stomachs of the re-
trenched to know that others at least have a
surfeit. A return of the “overtime” in the
Electoral Department since Sept, last would be
instructive reading for the unemployed clerk
element.
The Bananaland free Kanaka waxes in
years and in wisdom. If asked to take under 10s.
a week (which he, regards as the irreducible
minimum) he smiles and says, “Me walk about
one week.” This might be remedied (suggests
Brisbane Courier) if Papuans were imported for
the six months’ busy season and returned for the
other six. Note again—Ever and always tha
Papuan !
The Commons has passed, by 87 votes, a
bill providing that eight hours shall be a legal
day’s work in mines. N.S. Wales nearly passed
a similar law, some two years ago, hut it was lost
amid the squabbles between Parkes and the
Labour-party. If the Rosebery Govermne>~/„'s
measure isn’t wrecked in the Lords, then the dear
old mother country will have got a considerable
distance ahead.
In 1892, it was said, 200 Chinese crossed
the Q. border at Camooweal. This year it seems
as if 2000 are likely to cross. A kindly Govt.,
unbiassed by racial prejudice, suspends the
Chinese Restriction Act, while the police receive,
feed and house the destitute Celestial, or allow
him unmolested to go his way and lose himself
among his leprous kin. Port Darwin is a veritable
Chinese-castor.
The Eight Hours’ banquet in Melbourne
is a yearly abomination. Like every other public
gorge and guzzle it is for the benefit of Eat Man
incarnate ; the worker stumps up, and contents
himself with reading next day what the bloated
person had to say in praise of the enemies of
Labour. At a time when Melbourne is half-full
of hungry people the Trades Hall might have had
the common decency to forego this greasy tribute
to “the big men.” The banquet, as an institution,
should be held sacred to the hog-like plutocrat
who is never happy till he is wallowing in mixed
victuals, and the Labour leaders, in following his
example, give dreadful note of future apostaoy.
The House of Lords is to be upheld, says
the Argus, because “it is the protector of power-
ful minorities against the tyranny of a temporary
majority.” When a Conservative Government is
in power, pray how much protection does the
House of Beers give the powerful “ minority ” ?
The House of Lords is maintained because it
enables a feeble minority to tyrannise over a
powerful majority.
The Argus: “The workman is learning
that the amount of his wages is regulated by the
profits of the trade. The wages fund is the gross
profit fund, that and no other; and the way to
make profits large is to render the conditions of
living cheap.” Wages do not come out of the
“profit fund.” They are part of the cost of pro-
duction. For instance, do the Argus printers get
paid out of the Argus “ profits?”
No democratic party can afford to carry on
its back towards Parliament anyone convicted in
the past of a disgusting offence. The Bulletin
doesn’t want to openly throw stones at any man
who has legally atoned for his lapse into wild-
beastdom ; so it publishes this intimation in order
that any such person, whose brassy ambition may
threaten with extinction such faint flickers of
decency as he possesses, may stand down in time.
Of all the N.S. W. Parliamentary opponents
of the payment of members system, Bruce Smith
is the only one who has consistently refused
to draw his £3OO a year. And he never brags
about it, either. Reid made a great ado about not
drawing his whack—until he got married.
M’Millan, the noisiest and most virulent opponent
of the, principle, drew his little .£3OO from the
very start, even while he was away holiday-
making in England.
S. M. Herald promptly agrees to side
with N.S.W. Premier Dibbs for an alliance of
Protectionists and Freetraders with the purpose
of locally killing Labour—but stipulates a con-
dition. As soon as the object of the alliance is
attained—that is, as soon as the Labour-party is
e xtirpated—the contest between Protection and
Freetrade must be begun anew. That amounts
to bringing the country back to the status quo ante
the/Upheaval of four years ago.
Dear Bulletin, —The Labour cry, though
catching, is narrow and selfish. Hallam attri-
butes the success of the English Parliament to the
Mias A. C. MOON, journalist, died at Sydney, 21st
April, 1894.
facb that a member once elected looked on him-
self as a representative of England rather than
Blankshire or Little Pedlington. Whether local
or class sectional representation is a mistake,
Labour in politics will do no good until it goes for
Democracy pure and simple. Labour interests are
those of the majority. Consequently, a good
Democrat cannot be a bad Labour representative.
In Queensland, Labour v. Capital is being swal-
lowed up in the bigger issue Class v. Democracy.
—Yours, V.
Labouchere ;
The curious thing connected with these creatures is
that never yet has a man been found who, according to
his own showing, wanted to be either a Baronet or a
Knight. They always explain that they personally dislike
the prefix of “Sir” to thi ir names, but their wives weie
so desirous to be “My Lady” that they have had (o
sacrifice their own feelings on the altar of connubial
affection.
History repeats itself : “ She offered me the apile
and I did eat.”
It is suggestive to find the names of the
Premier and the ex-Premier of N.S.W. on Quorg
Tart’s anti-opium committee, while neither will
lend his name to an anti-alcohol crusade. It is
true Parkes favours a sort of local option, but he
is not a Prohibitionist and has over and over
again defended the moderate use of spirits,
Dibbs, on the other hand, is not even a Local
Optionist on practical grounds, and personally
glories in the fact that ardent liquors are avail-
able. The netting of these two either proves the
deftness of Quong Tart’s diplomacy, or illustrati s
once more the undrastic morality which leads
certain men to compound for sins they are in-
clined to by damning those they have no mind
to.
Certain recent legal troubles serve to point
out, for the several dozenth time, that the N.S.W.
Democratic party is afflicted with tco many
amateur editors. This is not the party’s fault,
but its misfortune; the amateur editors in question
have mostly attached themselves to its outer fringe
much against its will, and it can no more prevent
them calling themselves democrats than a Scotch
man can prevent a Chinaman calling himself
M'Pherson. The people in question have a
horrible yearning to start small weekly or monthly
“organs,” in which they criticise their political
opponents after a simple and primitive fashion,
which generally consists in saying that the person
then under discussion is a horse-thief and a pei-
jurer, and his father wasn’t married to his mother,
or something to that effect. Then all of a sudden
seven or eight editors get into trouble, and
another “ organ ” suspends publication. The
whole business is painfully suggestive of a child
running a circular-saw, and the consequences are
very similar. But nobody seems any better for
the experience ; when the first infant is sawn up
by his own weapon another one comes along and
starts fooling with another saw, and comes to an
untimely end in an exactly similar fashion.


■ a pci o*
*"% H-?
sfH^hX
c <9 <f v* /j P V^'X'V^x
Ay fr %%^%V<v\
H
& S \V-
'°L V<<\ "'•
,_ </vH.
o P <£%■
A Ro si'
v > C ,
"A "v,
r"
t§
ijufi 'it*j
-«i Hv'u
ffckfif W< buy
Mttje Ujj ■
ffkj skfroat^r^y^
1%
<XO3
* v rr
ih n
l? a rfyw3'
/\n
|||fcAßp||i|,
H^NORJ)eR
Mg 1 l+ci-P^
ğ
ftv/ N
Mr. Snttor expects.to be
absent from Sydney for three or four
months..* He will probably leave with the,
delegates from the other colonies by the
steamor Aratva, starting' for Van touver on
■ May-. 1?, and, may possibly visit Kngland
■before returning.'
-Z&
A LOOK ROUND.


frcA/' fr,efrA/T
X Mr. Parvea told the Speigbi y. Sjme
[•jttrj ibis morning that Mr. Deakin wa» so
•idqtMat that ha would coax the diokj
birds dMbeir bushes if.bo tried.
>fK
ivAo c/
dVe.
Bishop Goo, in a sermon yesterday, said the
suggestion by the devil to Eye in the Garden ■
of Kden vat worse than a lie. He likened
the devil to Press reporter* who made
suggestions to publio men and then pnb»
lie usd them under the tty Is of no inter-
view.
" THE CO MET.
•
y TO THE EDITOR OE THE ARi>„ii.
I Sir,—l want to see the comet, uad, being ft;
jnovice'in the science of astronomy, I don’t:
{know where to look for it. Mr. Ellery fcays |
Jits position on 22nd April will be:—“K.A. \
85h. 47min. 41sec., declination 44’40 south.” i
jiThia information is all very well for ac i
■(astronomer, but as an ordinary-going-e very-
<day kind of man, I really don’t know what it)
imeans. If Mr. Ellery would simplify mattew ■
land say •“ Supposing you ate at the Ob- \
ijaervatory and you look in a straight line over •
• house (or any other house;
'in the right direction) at a certain elevation, ■
land at u certain time you will see the
fchis would enable many people to find the ’
without trouble. J
| I think Hr. Ellery would do this.—Yours,"
tKEWXTE. :1
Krw, April ''a. __ _ _
’ A lady j volunteer corps j* ,th*
’'latest idea. The Contt
mittea of the Volunteer Staff Corps
for Women recently issued ipvim*
irons for a meeting for the purpose
■of enrolling members. Tbs ( horps
|will bo ' üßilJer .strict military dis«
‘olpllnf.
fir THE. B'ur'TS.
Mlat-ket-- Aye ike I a-ci/es -pettingtea-dy “fit
ate , Keefojn front of
Ah o 7 o tuSoreC cx.ee.!ctei-ifs /
r • NOTICE.
3 T7i(t \ATatci H
| sef
f o t~
I S
I Dl senses..
ġ
• A priae jester,” *‘A master of abase/*’
••A past master ic the art o t doggerel/’ are
some of the choice expressions oullad from
Footscray heal to officer's report, in refer*
once to the chairman of the Metropolitan'
Board of Works.
"Mere y
Al£ 0-f
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


il
EBSSIS
Dm
0-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
S h the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
ģ
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION .
mHIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Blight,
' Inflamed Byes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, 3s. per Bottle.
IST" Manufactured Solelyby 11. A. 110811, Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■m-
"x
r w
"N
Prink
onjy
AND BE
inPPSEP
UPON BY
IMITATION*
WOLFEsScHNAPRS
Society
The C mntess of Glasgow left Auckland
(ML.) for Hingland the other Saturday. This
circumstance would have been another nail in the
coffin of a loyal fiction, but for the fact that said
fiction was satisfactorily boxed and buried some
time ago. Previous to its interment the press of
our Southern Hemisphere delighted to enlarge
upon the importance of Governors’ wives, and the
abso’ute necessity for having them always with
us. His Excellency was then said to be of merely
nominal value to the health of the British Consti-
tution in the colonies, whilst his wife was much
more than that. She was invaluable. The well-
being of local society depended upon her ; through
her the beauties of the monarchical system were
alleged to be made evident. She was such a
sweetly-powerful factor in Imperialism that her
personality was a first consideration with the
authorities who appointed her husband to the
gubernatorialbffice.
The Bulletin recalls the not very old time
when English officialdom talked and wrote in this
strain and Australasian newspapers took up the
hollow parable. Then there happened an all-
round flight of Governors’ wives to Europe, and
the assumption that the Southern Hemisphere
couldn’t exist without the sunshine of their
presence was quietly buried. Loyalty pro-
bably regretted its rashness in ascribing the
usefulness of Government House lords to the
presence of their ladies, but loyalty took care
not to mention that a lord whose lady had gone
“ home ” for the benefit of her health was a super-
fluous expense. At the present moment two or
three of these indispensable ladies are absent.
Two or three silken bonds are, therefore, broken,
and the reasons for supporting two or three vice-
regal incubi have, on the showing of the defunct
fiction aforementioned, ceased to exist. Certainly
it is time that loyalty discovered a real cause for
public congratulation in Governors, altogether
apart from the exalted females who disappear.
The Bulletin
refi rred, the other
week, to Hori Grey’s
remark : “ Promiscu-
ous newspaper read-
ing v e -kens the men-
tal forces, and I’m
s ire it would weaken
my power of express-
ing myself in Eng-
lish.’’ Now, let us
refer to the two
“leading” Melb.
journa’s of April 23.
Paragraphs in either
paper commence with
the same words. “The
mantle of the late
Mr. Hugh M'Ooll has
apparently fallen on
Mr. A. N. Grant, of
Hillston, N.S. Wales.
In a letter addressed
to Mr. Patterson last
week,” &c. (Argus).
“The mantle of the
late Mr. Hugh
M’Ooll, whose en-
thusiastic advocacy
of the Great North-
Western Cun d will
even yet be fresh in
the public memory,
appears to have fallen
upon a gentleman
named Grant, who
resides at Hillston,
in N.S. Wales. In
a letter to the Pre-
mier,” &C..&C. (Age).
* #
Police report con-
cerning the arrest of
Patrick M’Manus, a
well - known resident
of Gunnedah (N.S.
Wales), on suspicion
of being one of the
Barraba murderers :
“I saw accused
mounting a horse in
Connadilly-street,
Gunnedah. He ap-
peared to get on the
horse very awk-
wardly. I then took
him in custody,” The
Bulletin has come
across this report
several dozen times
in as many different
papers, and each time
it has felt more and
more staggered at the
beautiful inconse-
quence of the police
intellect. “He ap-
peared to get on
the horse very awk-
wardly. I then took
him in custody.” And
now M’Manus has
been discharged, with
an apology from the
Law.
Up South recently an officious sergeant of
police summoned the leading hotelkeeper for
selling a drink at 11.5 p.m. Very late next night
some of the boarders formed a whist-party. The
landlord asked them to desist, but they laughed
at him and quickly locked the door. He there.
upon sent for the sergeant, and told him that a
number of men were gambling in one of his rooms.
Burning with z-al, the officer promptly burst
open the door, and discovered us the gamblers the
local P.M., the travelling Inspector of Police, a
Judge and his associate.
# # #
Dear Bulletin, —Man is essentially a
polygamous animal—normally impelled to plurality
of sexual relations—as woman is to singularity.
In which matter physiology corroborates psycho-
logy. One man, many women—result, normal
progeny ; one woman, many men—result, sterility
and specific disease. Nature approves of the one
arrangement, but energetically protests against
the other. The cry of “advanced” woman for
equalisation of sexual privileges is but an
attempted stoppage of the ceaseless mills of God.
-—Blue Beard.
* * «
Two Sydney residents with decrees against
them —the one for alimony and the other for sup-
port of a child—are allowed till the 4th of each
month to pay the previous month’s contribution.
The commercial spirit wiil soon so prevail in all
departments of life that prisoners sentenced to be
hanged at the end of one month will be able to
claim reprieve till the succeeding “Fourth.”
* * #
When M’Manus, the Gunnedah (N.S.W.)
suspect, was arrested in connection with the
Barraba murder, he remarked, so the arrest-
ing constable attested upon oath, something
to the effect that he fully expected to be
taken up for the crima M’Manus himself dis-
puted the statement, but the constable stuck to
his assertion vigorously. Now it has been proved
to the satisfaction of the court that M’Manus had
no earthly connection with the murder. So that,
if the constable’s statement is true, it proves, at
all events, that such casual remarks are not evi-
dence, seeing that they can be made quite as easily
by an innocent man as by a guilty one. And if it
isn’t true —well, what does it prove then?
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Re “D.'W.’s” love-story.
The naughty couple don’t have children in the
story because, as a rule, they have none in real
life. Isn’t it Bacon who says : “ Affection will
scarce water the ground where it must first fill a
pool ?” The man or woman with children to love
has so much less love to spare for another woman
or man. The man or woman without children
has so much more. Hence the childless are
naturally subject to illicit love, and of illicit-
love stories. As a youngster I had a chicken
mania. When the chicks were a month old I
was able to say almost infallibly which were
pullets and which cockerels. On the first sign
of danger the cockerels were under mother-wing ;
the pullet-chicks, repelled by the sameness of sex.
were the last and nestled, I doubt not, from pm
ADVENT OF THE PLOUGH.
G ROW: “Ha ! hey ! go an’ die !”
S WAGWAN (who has been refused pannikin of flour at station) : “Go to
blazes!”
CROW : “He-e-y ! ha ! Wh-e-en?”
S WAGMAN: “When the cookies come and your rations are stopped.”
(Crow-language is not freely translated.)
necessity. In the same way, the child-daughter
is the father’s child—the son belongs to the
mother —unlike attracting unlike. The ideal
family would be constituted in such fashion as
this: —Father and mother, unlike and severed as
fhe poles, in beauty, the characteristics of sex—
and in all things but the style of thought—a son,
the counterpart of the father, and so attracting
and attracted by the mother —a daughter, replica
of the mother, and so attracting and attracted by
the father. That is the ideal family, and neither
husband nor wife of the kind will ever form the
basis, of the unnatural yarn which “D. W.”
criticises.— Randolph Bedford. [lngenious ;
but what about divorce co-respondents with big
families—the Te Kloot case, for example? And
some time ago a Bulletin correspondent made
out a strong yrima-facie case to the effect that it
was childless couples who lived most happily.—
Ed. B.] 11 3
“THE BULLETIN will be mailed free for a quarter to the person who
(within the next month) sends along the most appropriate legend for
this drawing.”
Some of the lessons of Hospital Saturday
in Sydney : Ladies are mostly bad marks.
“ Women ” who don’t come under the heading of
“ladies ” are a lot better. Old women are better
than young ones. Middle-aged females are un-
certain. Old gentlemen don’t pan out for very
much, and old gentlemen with spectacles, in par-
particular, seldom pan out for anything at all.
Old gentlemen with spectacles, in fact, are a bad
lot. Dudes are eminently unprofitable, and
generally assume an aspect of horrified surprise
when the box is put before them, and dudes in
cabs are generally more hopeless and more
astonished - looking even than dudes on foot.
Dudes in private carriages generally look as if they
would like to give the collecting lady into
custody. Working-men are the most regular
and most consistent subscribers. Chinamen also
pan out well, especially gambling-house keepers.
So do publicans, publicans’ wives, bookmakers,
sporting men and spielers. Clergymen con-
tribute nothing but a benevolent smile; like-
wise aboriginals. In fact the parson and the
aboriginal are about the only classes who are
absolutely and utterly unapproachable. Also, as
a general rule, serious-looking men with umbrellas
pay up very reluctantly, and look with a stern ex-
pression at the collector as if they suspected her
of getting money under false pretences. In this
respect the man with an umbrella is a lot worse
than the man with a walking-stick, and it is
further noteworthy that the man who carries his
umbrella tightly rolled up isn’t near so promising
as the one who has his gamp flying loose.
* * •
With Premier Dibbs, the police, and the
bank-managers all now constantly carrying re-
volvers, N.S. Wales is in a fairer way than ever
to reach the rational regime of shoot-as-shoot-can—
with a proportional enlargement of private grave-
yards.
* * #
A S.A. woman married and had a child,
which died. Just previous to the advent of her
second-born her husband died. She married
again, and exactly the same thing occurred ; so
she has two children living whose respective
fathers never saw them. For a third time she has
married, a child was the result, which, following
precedents, died also. And now her third and
present husband, duly acquainted with her his-
tory, firmly believes that ho has, at most, but
three months to live.
• * «
An absorbing topic, born of many recent
marriages of Jews to Christians, among Australian
Jewesses is—how can they, the daughters of Israel,
be expected to marry within the narrow circle of
their ancient religion, while marriageable Hebrews
so frequently persist in choosing wives from the
tents of the Gentiles ? Even now there are far
from enough eligible Hebrews to go round, and
the dark-eyed Shebrews naturally feel the posi-
tion keenly. And so, by the way, do their fathers!
A last week’s
Melb. drunk, released
on bail, didn’t appear
when called on at the
Police Court. He
had got lost in the
Law Courts while
looking for a Supreme
Court Judge to deal
with his case. Any
brainy man, who has
been fortunate enough
to enjoy a big
drunk, knows that
there are glorious
phases of beeriness,
in which the whole
world is at his feet,
and only the Full
Court of six Judges
and a grand jury
could fine him 10s. or
24 hours with fitting
legal honours.
« * •
Dear Bulle-
tin, —One of the
managers of a Melb.
firm, who employ a
large number of
hands, including my-
self, has just stated
that 10s. per week is
quite enough for any
single woman to live
upon, as married men
with families are
living on 30s. a week.
I regard this as a
strong argument
against the need of a
Social Purity Society,
—Contented.
The last—or what ought to be the last—
chapter in a Maoriland romance, has just been
written. A few days ago a somewhat fashionable
marriage ceremony at Wellington was broken up
because the bride said “ No ’’ with a loud voice al
the altar, and positively refused to be married on
any account whatever. She was led into the
vestry and remonstrated with, but, as no good
result ensued, the clergyman announced that,
owing to the “ indisposition ’’ ,of the lady,
there 'would be no marriage that day. The
rest of the romance was divided into three
parts. Next morning, probably owing to
more remonstrance, the lady consented, and
the marriage was put through after the unobtru-
sive fashion of twice-warmed meat. Then the
dismal pair went off by train on their honeymoon,
the new-made wife preserving a dead silence all
the time ; presently the lady got out at a station
and didn’t come back. She has never come back
since. The husband went borne, and thought
over the matter till it turned his brain, and finally
he blew his intellect out with a revolver and ended
the story—all but the postscript. The lost wife is
now said to be in Melbourne, and the postscript
will come along by-and-by.
About five years ago a Berlin man died sud-
denly. He had courted a girl for 15 years, and
finally decided that he could risk it. So therewas
a wedding; and next morning when the bride
awoke she saw the bridegroom hanging on the
bed-post stone dead, with a note pinned on his
chest to say that “No man really knows a woman
until he has married her.”
• • •
Apropos of bush school-teachers supplying
pupils with clothing. A sight for the gods, abort
18 miles from Sydney, is a woman sawing wood,
dressed in a low-neck and short-sleeve bodice !
the faded remains of the local teacher’s ball-dress.
In Melbourne, at all events, bad times,
and not the W.C.T.U., have abrogated that
fearful infliction, the literary hotel Hebe.
# # #
Cash is scarce around Melbourne just now,
so some of the suburban drapers who give out sewing
are making their work-slaves take part payment
in goods. This encourages trade and helps along
the pawnbroker. By-and-bye, when the grass in
the streets gets up a little more, everybody will be
able to keep his own goat.
# # *
The noisy Melbourne man is transferred
to the Village Settlement, while his wife and
family starve in silence in the city.
HOSPITAL SATURDAY.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ Will you walk into my parlour ?” said the spider
to the fly, and
“ Will you put a penny in my box ?” the maiden
said to me.
Sfie had “penny” on her lips, but “half-a-
sovereign ” in her eye, and
So I yielded, weakly yielded, for it was too late
to flee.
There was “ Danger !” plainly printed on her red
and flaring placard,
And the full flood-tide of passengers round her
was always ebb;
Priest and Levite walked upon the other side and
turned their back hard,
While I, a blind Samaritan, fell straight into
her web.
Her trainer eyed me sternly with a “ Come, young
man, fork out!” look,
The guardian bobby’s frown meant, “If yer
don’t, I’ll run yer in !”
She clinked her box persuasively; said with a
tiny pout, “Look,
It’s nearly empty, so far !”—and I parted with
the tin.
With the coin the glamour vanished, the old Adam
rose within me,
And I kicked myself with vigour and said some-
thing with a .
For though as sheep to slaughter I am led, it
“goes agin me ”
When a parti-coloured female bluffs me out of
hard-earned cash.
And I cannot help agreeing with the gentleman
in Dickens
Who disliked “white weskits bossing of ” his
philanthropic mite ;
“ He’d give plenty, but give straight ” ; and a
sinful man it sickens
To be bailed up by a highway-woman. Next
year I shall fight.
PHILISTINE.
MY PHILOSOPHY.
Strive not : take things as they come.
Then— “do ” others or be “ done.”
FAT MAN.


Send ONE and 3 PENCE m STAMPS
(OF ANY COLONY)
And PURCHASE (Post Free) any one of the following Useful Reference Books :
Profitable Poultry Book
The Self-Educator Book
Comic Recitations Book
Ready-made Speeches Book
How to Play Billiards
Colonists’ Guide to Health
How lo Train—Running, etc.
The P pular Song Book
Hons- Painting and Papering
Whist and Card Games
Athletics and Gymnastics
Familiar Quotations
Character in Faces and Features
Letter Writer’s Manual
Character in Handwriting
Handy Book on the Horse
Handy Carpentry Book
Manual of Book-keeping
Also, the following Australian Yarns, Detective Stories, etc ,
Geoffrey Hamlyn (H. Kingsley)
Eulalie (W. S. Hayward)
Lost for Gold (Katharine King)
Botany Bay (John Lang)
Assigned to His Wife (John Lang)
Gold Hunters’ Adventures (Thomas)
A Study in Scarlet (A. G. Doyle)
The Sign of the Four ~
Light that Failed (R. Kipling)
The Right Sort (A. Kennard)
Out of Hurly-Burly (M. Adeler)
Elbow Room (M. Adeler)
Moina (L. L. Lynch)
A Slender Clue (L. L. Lynch)
Crime of Xmas Toy (H. Herman)
Broken Bonds (Hawley Smart)
False Cards ~ ~
Play or Pay „ ~
WARD* LOCK & BOWDEN, Ltd. (and all Booksellers), Melbourne*
“GAILY THE
TROUBADOUR.”
The troubadour has long since passed into history,
but his sweet guitar still lives in fact as well as in
memory.
We have just received about a Dozen of the famous
g
pANDANGO
Guitars.
•••
They are remarkable for the purity and richness
of their tones, for their strength and for th&r low
price. A good one for 50s.—better ones up to £1 7s. f
and every one guaranteed.
SPLENDID STOCK OP MUSIC
FOR
GUITAR or MANDOLIN.
Call and Inspect our Magnificent Stock of
PIANOS AND ORGANS!
The finest choice in the city, and the best for the
money. Most Liberal Terms—CASH or CREDIT.
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Margaret Young, 79 years of age, ap-
peared in the City Court to-day as a vagrant.
Her left wrist was broken, and the poor old foul
pleaded that she could not work. She did not
like to go to the Immigrants’ Home, and, for
charity’s sake, was sent to gaol for three months.”
Melb. Paper.
A Melb. paper says that Victorian profes-
sional pugs, have attended vice-regal balls. Even
so, there must have been many people on the
waxed floor much less reputable.
# * *
The Melbourne pave has sent a brigade to
Cool gar die.
• * #
A portrait of the recent Maoriland much-
talked-abont marriage reveals the fact that the
bride wore the common or garden knickerbockers
as used by the opposite sex. and not the divided
skirt, also that “hubby” is an under-sized, timid-
looking individual.
# * *
Mrs. Wolstenholme, an “advanced” Syd-
ney school-mistress, complains that school-girls
think of marriage, to the neglect of grammar and
the globes. If a girl of 14 hasn’t settled the
colour of her husband’s moustache and decided
that he must te “ something in a bank,” she isn’t
fit to be an Australian female. And then it’s ten
to one that she grows up and marries a butcher !
# * #
S.M. Heeald declines, at the rate of a
dozen or so a week, advts. of the type of the young
lady in distress who wants d 65 from kind gentle-
man, and young widow who would like one
gentleman boarder, where no other boarders are
kept. Occasionally an advt. gets in which hugs
the shore, and then a fresh memo, is written by
“ Mister James.”
* * *
The local Health Department reports that
the Yan Yean water at Footseray (Melb.) is two-
thirds water and one-third filth. There is a bad
outbreak of typhoid in the dirty suburb, and the
department, after much deep thought, is inclined
to the impression that the aforesaid 33 per cent, of
filth may have something to do with it.
# # #
Dear Bulletin, —I know a man who dines
at a Brisbane restaurant for Is. 3d., carefully rubs
out the pencilled 3d. on his ticket with bread-
crumbs, and pays Is. Is he mean enough to
count ?■— Banana Boy.
* * *
The old trouble about father on bench and
son at bar arose in a recent Sydney police-court
case, where a magistrate decided that a publican
(defended by the magistrate’s son) was not to
blame for roughly handling a policeman who
entered his bar to take a man’s name for abusive
language. It is not enough for law to be pure ;
it must be made to look pure, even to the enemies
of justice.
« * «
The Sydney Landlords’ League meets with
but small success. Its main purpose was to
systematically black list defaulting tenants for the
members’ benefit. But the initial meetings were
frosty, and when it was seen that the scheme
would absorb much ready cash the feeling for
postponements and adjournments was general.
Several landlords of a terrace or so declared they
would let when they like on the tenants’ face
value, and the building societies which own hun-
dreds of houses profess to have ample means
already of knowing the financial status of would-
be occupants. The League, to win, must climb a
particularly steep hilt.
* • *
Chief Justice Madden at Melb. Eight Hours banquet:—
If the social problem can be solved it should be done in
this new country where the people are full of respect for
the law, and determined to work for the law through the
law. Like a lawyer, this. Madden believes the people
to have been made for the law (and the lawyers) and not
the law for the people. The above was the Chief Justice’s
reply to Trenwith’s complaints about the misery in and
around Melbourne where every honest man has a healthy
contempt of courts:—
An ex-bank-ma' ager advertises pathetic-
ally in the Age that he can do anything in the
clerical line, and wants a job; wages no object,
appetite small.
* # «
In Japan, says a Melbourne paper, you
buy a dress by weight. Many frugal-minded
CUMMINS.
LEES.
(Arrested on suspicion for the Barraba, N.S.W., bank-murder.)
Melb. women appear to have gone to Japan for
their evening dresses.
• * *
A Wellington, Maoriland, school-com-
mittee thinks “ As You Like It ” should be sup-
pressed as an indecent play. To the “ pure ” all
things are impure.
* # #
Said N.S.W. Equity Court Judge Owen
the other day in a will-ease “ I think that a
Xiroper punishment in after life for testators who
make snob ambiguous wills (as this) would be to
make them construe them before the Almighty.”
* * #
The latest additions to the hymn-tunes at
the Salvation Army’s “Sacred and Classicals ”
are: “Ye Banks and Braes,” “ Our Jack’s come
home from sea to-day,” and “ Landlord Fill
the Flowing Bowl.” None of Chevalier’s coster
ditties have yet been levied on. What price
“ Never introduce your Jonah to a whale ” ?
• # *
Melbourne Age now publishes “ Bereave-
ment Notices” underneath the “In Memoriam ”
column. The bereavement notice is a ghoulish
device whereby people publicly return thanks to
other people for sympathising with them in their
time of trouble. As light reading for a jaundiced
person on a damp winter day the bereavement
column can’t be conscientiously recommended.
# # •
A Chinaman died recently at Arrow town
(M.L.), a lonesome township on the outermost rim
of nowhere, and for certain family reasons it was
necessary to send his remains to Dunedin for
burial. So two of his countrymen interviewed
the nearest railway authority, and found, to their
horror, that the freight on the corpse would be
Then there was an excited meeting _in
Chinatown, and the consensus of opinion
was that the proposed charge was _ too
rnuchee. The station-master was interviewed
again to see if he would take the late Ah
Sin as fish or agricultural produce, but he was
obdurate. After that there were more consulta-
tions, and presently a great idea rose in China-
town, and was straightway put into execution.
The deceased was dressed up in the habiliments
which he wore while still alive, and was sat up in
a buggy between two of his countrymen and
driven to the railway. Arrived there his hat was
slouched over his eyes, and he was shouldered
into a carriage by his twin supporters who
explained briefly that he was welly sick. And so
the corpse travelled all the way to Dunedin on an
ordinary ticket, sitting up grim and silent be-
tween his two friends, who propped up his head
every time it bobbed forward; and when he
arrived at his destination he was helped into a
cab and driven away. This par. is intended for
the special gratification of anybody who remem-
bers travelling in that railway-carriage with three
Chows, and who may ohance to recall the pro-
foundly reticent attitude of the Chow in the
centre.
m * *
The sorrows of the poor publican. When
the churches start bazaars, they pick bevies of
their best-looking young girls to minister at the
stalls. With what intent? The mere business
one of stimulating the impressionable male to
spend freely. When a combination of social
authorities arranges the details of an Hospital
Saturday collection, it provides a bevy of as good-
looking girls as it controls to push the collection-
boxes into the faces of pipe-smokies', cigar-smoking
and cigarette-sucking masculinity. Again, with
what intent? Merely the business one of stimu-
lating t he callow and the hoary male to spend with-
out counting. And, yet, when the hard-up publican,
with exactly (he same.object, places a nice-looking
girl behind his bar, these churches and social
authorities demand that he shall be put in a spiked
barrel and rolled down the hill of infamy 1
9 # *
According to general Australian opinion
the worst aspect of the crime committed by the
Barraba assassins was the murder of their splendid
horses—worse because it was more deliberate than
the murder of the poor bank-manager.
# • «
South Melbourne Presbytery has resolved
to “ set apart women of approved character and
ability to assist in the spiritual and temporal
oversight of families,” which opens up a prospect
of a comfortable billet for the interfering old lady
with spectacles.
# * #
The use of slang terms, &c., allowed and
almost encouraged by Chief Justice Madden in
the big Melb. libel-case, has been much criticised
down South by those who remember the dignity
without affectation of Higinbotham and Barry.
A Supreme Court dialogue of the near future :
Chief Justice : “Now, tell us what happened.”
Witness: “Well, ’e ups to me and scz ‘ Yer a mean
cow,’ and I tole ’im ’e was a blanky Chow. Then ’e biffed
me.”
C.J.: “ And did yer stouch him back?”
Witness: “No.”
0. J.: “Dioken!”
Witness: “Swelpme.”
C. J.: “ Fair dinkum ?”
Witness: “Yes.”
C.J.: “ And did you turn dorg-?”
Witness: “I blewed.”
C.J.: “To the copman?”
Witness: “Yes!”
C.J. : “Very well, yer kin git.”
“A monarchy, called a republic, is the cat
disguised as the woman.”
The Briton enjoys his pipe at home. When
travelling through France he sticks to it more
closely than ever, for he hates cigarettes. In
Germany, he does not think a cigar, every now
and then, will do him any harm. In Switzerland,
his pipe seems somehow or other to drop com-
pletely into oblivion, and wherever you meet him
there, you will find him with a look of content
beaming on his face, and a Frossard’s Swiss in
his mouth.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss, elsewhere adver-
tised, is well-known all over Maoriland as a
valuable remedy for coughs, colds, influenza, sore
throats, asthma, and general chest complaints. It
was only introduced to N.S.W. last year, and
already numerous unsolicited testimonials are to
hand, praising its efficacy. It is manufactured
from the purest ingredients, under the personal
supervision of Mr. Bonnington, jun., and sufferers
are recommended to give it a trial.
FOR CHARITY'S SAEE.
Dear Mrs. Young, since you are old
And apparently sick,
And you can’t dig for gold
With a shovel and pick :
Since your strength seemS to fall
And your marrowbones ache,
We have sent you to gaol
For charity’s sake—
For char-i-ty’s sake 1
Dear Mrs. Young, superfluous dame—
Tell us, why do you stay
Looking on at the game,
In your dreary old way?
When you drop off to sleeps
’Tis a pity to wake ?
Spare the country your “ keep,”
For charity’s sake—
For ohar-i-ty’s sake.
Dear Mrs. Younsr, snug in a ceh
With your skilly and bed,
You are doing too well—
Kindly try to be dead.
When the dark angel knocksj
Sure, your spirit he’ll take
And we’ 11 find you a box
For charity’s sake—
For char-i-ty’s sake.
A GOOD STOVE.
A WORD OF CAUTION.
Everyone knows what a good stove is—at least,
the women do ; and every woman knows that, of
all the treasures of the household, a really first-
rate, reliable oooking-stove is the greatest desider-
atum in a house. A great many stoves are
advertised every year, many of which are like
jerry-built houses—thrown together to sell. A
word of caution is therefore necessary to intending
buyers, because there are few things so annoying
and vexatious as to buy a stove and then find that
it does not possess all the qualities that are neces-
sary to give complete and lasting satisfaction.
Now, the points in choosing a good stove are;—
1. Strong cast-iron frame.
2. Good draught.
3. Facilities to burn either wood, coal, or
even turf.
4. Simplicity of parts, and thus, easy to clean.
5. Duplicate parts kept in stock, so that
breakages can be replaced at small cost
and without delay.
And if, in addition to these five points, you can
get a stove that is also an ornament to the kitchen,
all the better.
Price, of course, is a point, but that is a matter
which need scarcely be mentioned, since, if the
above points are combined in any stove, it would
be cheap at any price within reason.
It only remains for us to say that, with con-
fidence, we can honestly recommend “The
Housewife,” sold by Holdsworth, Macpherson
and Co., 250 George-street, Sydney, from £3 10s.
upwards, as one that fully and entirely “ fills the
bill.”
We should suggest our readers writing to this
firm for an illustrated catalogue, with further
particulars.
Though you’re cold and are not clad, man,
Though you starve and are not fed;
Though you see your children going
Foodless, to a wretched bed,
Do not look to rash reformers
For the means to fill your maw—
Wrongs will find their due solution
If you’ll only trust the Law.
Give no heed to common scandals,
Cultivate an awed respect
For the law-courts and the Judges—
They’re your saviours, recollect,
And the joyous time will follow
When you need not sleep on straw,
If you’ll only keep on working
Through the Law and for the Law.
Though the man who steals a dinner
For twelve months to gaol must go,
Whilst the gilded rascal gets off
With his twenty weeks or so;
Do not let your faith be shaken,
Do not snort or mutter “ Pshaw !”
Flout the Law’s administrators,
Then work for and through the law.
Survival of the Fittest.
Somebody said somewhere at some time “That
men, nations and things could learn the lesson of
life from the Ephemera—the insects of a summer
day which are born and breathe and die,” and to
a great extent this is true. Man’s is a little longer
than the day of the house fly, that is all, and what
is true of him is true of many of his works. There
are flourishing in Australasia now many financial
institutions, great newspapers, and commercial
establishments, which, being independent of any
one man, have outlived the men who made them,
and will probably continue changeless to the end
of civilisation. There are others which were as
unstable as the men who made them, and have
long since disappeared in the general ruin. And
there have been medicines without inherent virtue,
which have sprung into notice, deluded a few
unfortunate sufferers with the promise of a cure,
and subsided into the long list of dead failures.
Anything can live for a year or two. You may
delude some of the people, as Abraham Lincoln
said, for a time, but you cannot delude all the
people all the time. Now Warner’s Safe ßemedies
are advertised on their sterling merit, and by the
fact that they are made and sold on honour.
Fourteen years ago these medicines were first
placed on the market; every year since then has
seen a wider and constantly increasing use of them
—because they are in the world of medicines what
the Bank of England is to the world of finance.
Mr. M. Sharkey, of Norwood, S.A., writes to
H. H. Warner & Go., on May 23, 1893, adding his
quota to a huge mass of testimony, of which the
following is an abstract :
Dear Sirs, —I have to thank Warner’s Safe
Cure that I am alive and enjoying good health
to-day. Five years ago I was stricken down by
some disease of which the first symptoms were
great weakness, emaciation, and excruciating pains
over the whole body. The malady increased at an
alarming rate, doctors were called in and con-
sultations held, and I was removed to the hospital
in order to get better attention. It was then
decided that I was suffering from Bright’s disease.
I remained under treatment until at length the
medical men decided they could do no more for
me, recommending me to go home and prepare for
the worst, and indeed I eared very little what the
end might be, I was so weak and miserable. At
this time a friend who had heard of some won-
derful cures by the use of Warner’s Safe Cure,
procured for me a bottle of that medicine and some
Safe Pills, and I commenced their use. After
taking five bottles I could feel that I was recovering
strength every day. I continued for several
months with the medicine until I had regained my
former strength and energy, I seem to have a
new lease of life and feel altogether a new man,
able to attend to business, and am stronger and
better than I have been for many years. I have
often said that Warner's Safe Cure is worth not
only five shillings, but five hundred shillings a bottle,
being quite convinced that it was the means of
saving me from an early grave, while language
cannot express my gratitude for what it has done
for me. I travel a good deal in South Australia
and never fail to recommend the medicine to any
one I know to be suffering from kidney disease.
From the Cottage to Government House.
Go where you will, you will hear that pretty
dance tune, the “Duchess of York” Waltz, pub-
lished by Mr. H. J. Samuell. Since Mr. Ernest
Needs played it by command of Lady Duff at
Government House, Sydney, it has become the
rage. Messrs. W. H. Paling, Ltd., sell more
copies of this waltz than any other. Send Postal
Order for Two Shillings. If you have not got it,
send for it, and you will be pleased. Mr.
Samuell’s next publication will be a new song,
“I was Dreaming,” composed by Aug. W.
Juncker. Ready in May.
Dear Bulletin. —The more of the
“learned pig” there is in the university-graduate
the more ostentations he is of his academic
“ brand.” The brainiest university man I ever
knew called his “ M. A.” the “ Mark of the Ass,”
and asserted that his collegiate course had played
the devil with the live end of his intellect. —A.M.
Age cannot wither, nor custom stale the
infinite variety of boots and shoes sold by T. E.
Ellis, Newcastle, N.S.W. Anyone wanting really
strong, well-fitting footgear should ponder the
advt. in another column, put price and particulars
in an envelope, and be a happy man by return of
post.
“ Camalin,” Sharp’s great discovery for
curing piles, is receiving splendid testimony from
sufferers of many years’ standing. The remedy is
easily manipulated, and consists of two articles —
one the reducing agent, and the other to relieve
pain or irritation. Mr. James Weekes, of Kim-
briki, writes that the Camalin cured him in three
weeks, after 25 years’ suffering—the last five years
great agony. Two well-known gentlemen cured :
Mr. F. J. Mulholland, of Elong Elong, and Mr.
A. Rendell, of Bingara, both terrible cases, also
add their public testimony. The laboratory is at
257 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. (no agents
having been appointed), and from here the “ Cama-
lin,” with necessary advice, is despatched to all
parts of the colonies.


JOHN JERGER
Gold-saving Machine.
Orders for above received
by undersigned. “ The Poor
Man’s Friend,” to put through
400 buckets of dirt per day,
<£ls f.0.b., Sydney. Cash
to accompany each order.
JOHN JERGER, In-
ventor and Patentee,
Goulburn, New
S. Wales.
MANLY
00-Operative Steam Ferry Go. (Ltd.)
v —FROM—\
No. 1 JETTY. ( llttlLAK QUAY
(Foot of Pitt-street), to
Main Manly WHarf
'■PHE STEAMERS of this COMPANY run as follows
(weather permitting, and as far as practicable);
heave Sydney —7.ls, 8.0, 9.0, 10.30, 11.30, 12.30 (1.0),
1.30 (2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.30 (4.0), 4.30, 5.0, 5.30, 6.15,
7.30, 9.30, 11.15.
Leave Manly- 7.15, 8.10, 8.45, 9.45, 11.30, 12.30, 1.30
(2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.30 (4.0 , 4.30 (5.0), 5.39, 6.0, 6.30,
7.0, 8.30, 10.15.
Trips marked () Saturday only.
Special Time-Table, Sundays and H^'daTT-
SQUATTER S
With Special Wool Blade,
Post Free, 6s. 6d.
S-S Size.
R. & Gr. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 Georye St., Sydney.
%W“ Post your Razor to be Ground and Set —enclose 1/3.
TORONTO HOTELT
LAKE MACQUARIE.
Terms: 7/- and 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
Access easy. Train direct from Sydney or the
North.
H. A. BRETT, Manager.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee ... Mr. George Uignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
of Mr. George Rignold in
Th.e Lights o’ L ntion.
Saturday, May 5—“ A KING OF CRIME."
ew Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
•Under the Management of Messrs. Brough & Boucicault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LIST TWO NIGHXSI
of A. W. Pinero’s Great Play,
“THE SECOND MRS TANQUERAY.”
Saturday, May 6 —“ THE BAUBLE SHOP.”
Albury missing word competi-
tions. DOUBLE GUESSES-NO. 7.
‘‘Women are rapidly qualifying themselves for men’s
positions in life. If such a questionable change is desir-
able, what more occupation could be found than
that at present monopolised by Ministers of the Gospel?”
CLOSES SATURDAY, MAY s.—Every Competitorallowed
two guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O. Order, 1/1 if
in stamps. Add exchange to Postal notes other
colonies. Total amount (less 10 per cent.) divided amongst
successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited, in a sealed envelope,
with Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known Albury Bookseller.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
FANCY BALLS, Amateur Theatricals, &c.
Character Wigs on HIRE.
A. MICHAU, Theatrical Wig-maker,
78 The Strand (Ist Floor), Sydney, Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
1 1 Australasia, and the ONLY O.NE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors:—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT. M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES 11. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ; J. T.
WALK Ell, Esq. ; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS,
Esq., J.P.: ROBT. J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary; RICHARD TEBCE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
Accumulated Funds ... ... Over Eleven Millions sterling
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £501,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over
One Million sterling.
Head Office: 07 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
DURABILITY and ECONOMY !
The Celebrated “Orient” Clothing
Gives UNIVERSAL SATISFACTION, and is UNEQUALLED
For Fit, Style and. Wear.
All Garments are CUT from the Best Models, and the Materials are Thoroughly Shrunk,
The ORIENT Clothing is in all Textures, and suitable for Office, Bush, Town, Riding, Walking,
Travelling. The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being MADE
TO ORDER.
First Quality Men’s Suits ... ... 40s
Extra „ „ ... ... 45s
Special „ „ ... ... 50s
tW VALUE UNRIVALLED.
PATTERNS POST FREE ON APPLICATION. INSPECTION INVITED.
Hr avid Jones & Company,
ORIENT CLOTHIERS,
Opposite G. V. (>., George Street, Sydney.
m
y-: : i
•■r>
Wm
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
CELLULAR AERTEX CLOTH is composed of small cells, in
which the air is enclosed and wanned hy the heat of the body—a perfect
non-conducting layer is thus formed next the skin. Owing to the
cellular construction, this cloth is much lighter and better ventilated
than ordinary fabrics, and is easier to wash, and is a positive safe-
guard against chills:
Ladies’ Cellular Combinations,
Trimmed with Heal TORCHON LACK, made in
COTTON, LISLE THREAD, SILK and COTTON, NATURAL
WOOL AND MEL. NO, and SILK AND MERINO.
Prices from 10/6 to 24/-
CORSETS, NIGHT-DRESSES, CHEMISES, BODICES,
PETTICOATS, DRAWERS, STOCKINGS, etc.
PRICE LISTS, PAMPHLETS, and all particulars,
Cellular Clothing Depot,
305 and 307 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Hunter Street).
20,000 Shares at £l .
WOGGONORA
BUILDING SOCIETY
Has to Distribute amongst its Members *
3 GRAZING- FARMS (20,000 acres each).
All Fenced, and well improved. Situated near CUNNAMULLA, Q. Together with 20,000 well-
bred Sheep —1 to 4 years old. Also,
£3500 worth of Building Allotments, in 171 Brizes,
For any of which 90 per cent, is obtainable in CASH.
S7dne7 References; es- Messrs, JOSEPH LEEDS !s CO., Stock and Station Agents.
Full Prospectus next issue. LIST CLOSES 25th MAY. Send ,£1 for Share to
GEORGE STORY, Secretary, CUNNAMULLA, Q.
S 9
THE GREAT
Scand-inavian Remedy
—FOR—
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Chest and Pulmonary
Complaints, Nervous Exhaustion, Rheumatism,
Gout, Chalky Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, Neuralgia,
Bright’s Disease, Kidney and Liver Disorders,
British Cholera, and all Blood and Shin Diseases,
March 17, ’94.
Professor Thuunius.— Sir, —It affords me extreme pleasure
to be able to testify to the excellence of your new Scan-
dinavian Cure, “TUULINIUS,” for severe oases of Rheu-
matic Gout. Accidentally I heard of your remedy, and on
bei rip: assured of its efficaciousness, I procured a course as a
stand-by, knowing how subject my wife was to Hereditary
Rneumalic Gout. Pour days after I had occasion to administer
your wonderful preparation, and I can assure you, sir, the
effect was remarkable. From the firsl day my wife improved
rapidly, and now is completely convalescent, and in justice to
you I will do all that lays in my power to publish
“THULINIUS.”—Yours Gratefully, J. - A. PATTERSON, 5S
Denison-street, Woollahra. P.S.—You can use this testi-
monial with freedom. —J.A.P.
21st February, 1894.
Dear Mr. Thuunius,—On Christmas Eve, 23rd December,
1893, X had been in bed for nearly three weeks suffering from
Rheumatic Gout, when Mr. Hamburger, of 150 Bourke-street,
persuaded me to try a bottle of your Rheumatic medicine,
and its results were simply surprising. On the following
Wednesday I was able to sit up in a chair, and the swelling in
my legs had visibly decreased, on the fallowing Saturday 1
could get about, and on Tuesday, 2nd January, 1894, 1 was
able to go to my work without pain, and I rapidly improved
in health. I send you this that you may make whatever use
of it you may think best. I shall recommend it to all whom
I know.—Youts respectfully, FRANCES DUMAS.
I can vouch for the truth of the above. —F. Hamburger,
239 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo.
Price. ss. per Bottle, and a Course of Six Bottles, £1 ss.
■ • IB
m
H
ScaSremedy
Depot: 15 VICTORIA ARCADE, entrance from Elizabeth-street (near King-street) and Castlereagh-
street, opposite “ The Australia ” Hotel, SYDNEY. HOX 1405 G.P.O.
Write for Pamphlets and particulars of successfully treated cases.
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
ĝ
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 12,0 each ; Plainer Finish,
7/G each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Awarded FIRST PRIZE by Royal Ayri-
cultural Society.
w. Jno. Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter-at., Sydney
Business Announcements.
jek.. avixojEac^xT,
Theatrical Wig-maker and Hair-worker to all Sydney
theatres. Amateur Clubs Liberally Treated. Ladies'
Combings made up at 2/6 oz.
78 THE STRAND (Ist Floor), SYDNEY.
cromarti
iiill'lUlT- 1
v.o
Wbisty
Greenlees brothers
QIASCUftIOHOON AMD
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips
SOLE AUENTS
tor
AUSTRALIA.
s\\
//
m
U
OUNCE
AJILJP
%W“ Fit every head perfectly the first time they are tried on,
and weighing 1 only 3 to oz. Are a luxury to wear. The
Registered Trade Mark, as above, is stamped on the tip of
every hat, without which none are genuine.
Gr. H. Smith & Sons,
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole A gen 1 s for Australia.
John Lawler and Sons,
Wire Mattress & Bedding Manufacturers,
UPHOLSTERERS and CABINETMAKERS
Importers of
BEDSTEADS —Iron, Brass and Pearl-mounted
English FURNITURE
Austrian CHAIRS—-Plain and Fancy Designs
American CHAIRS—PIain & Embossed Designs
Carpets, Linoleums and Floor Cloths
Hearth Rugs, Mats and M ating
Java Kapok, Curled Hair, Fibre and Flax
BAMBOO BLINDS—White, Green and Skin
White Cane Chairs, Lounges, Tables and Settees
TAPESTRIES, Plushes, Hair-seating & Cretonnes
Spring Blind Rollers, Hollands, Cords & Fringes
Cornice Poles, Lace and Tapestry Curtains
OVERMANTELS—Oak, Walnut and Mahogai y
TOILET GLASSES and COMMODES
TOILET SETS in various Colours and Designs
MANGLES
STOVES
JAPANNED TINNED TRUNKS
Warehouse:
608 GEORGE STREET, SYUNEV,
Bulk Stores and Steam Factories;
Nos. 3,4, 6, 8 and 10 UNION LANK.
Telephone, No. 66.] [Established IS6J.
Medical,
BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, SCALP DISEASES,
To Sufferers. Do not waste money in useless,
cheap, irritating compounds for these complaints.
Send for Sims' Remedy. New and Scientilic.
Seldom fails. Enclose P. 0.0. 10/- for month’s
supply, or write for particulars.
A. H. TIGHE (Sole Agent for-N.S. Wales),
Office, 30 Vickery’s Buildings, 78 Pitt-st., Sydney.
nEAF" ESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and Perfect Hearing Restored.
Comfortable to wear and invisible. Illustrated
book of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps.
A. M. NAST, 49 ELIZABETH ST., MELB.
TV/TANHOOD WEAKENED.—From youthful folly,
- LVX excesses, or any other cause, GUARANTEED Cure.
A Great Scientific Discovery by Anatomy, Treatise on
“Lost Manhood” posted free, sealed. To young men
contemplating marriage, to the married, to young and
old—this hook is invaluable, pointing out as it does the
way of relief to those unfortunate sufferers to whom love
is hut a hideous, tormenting'dream—life a torture —the
future a blank! Every man and youth should read it.
Posted free. Write Prof. HERMANN, French
Specialist, 41 Collins Place, EAST MELBOURNE.
LADIES!!!
DR. SPEER
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
29 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
Female Pills for Irregularities, lbs. and 20s. per box,
guaranteed O.K.
&52
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leucliorea, &c., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by J. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
FROM COUgS
INTEN MINUTES.ff^
ğ
balsam
WTOF HOREHOUND.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY KIOMEDY FOR
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS, &C.
“Invaluable for Bad Coughs and Colds.”
Mrs. Eason , Skafora.
gold by all Chemists in bottles at Is. lid,, and 2s. 9d.
The remodelled Australian Workman is
an improvement on the old paper, being handier
and more readable; a new feature has been
added in the shape of a cartoon by Alfred Clint.
The Workman is certainly the best of Australian
journals exclusively devoted to Labour.
A Gippsland selector named Wigley had
his leg broken by a fall from his horse in the bush
one day last week. He dragged himself two-and-
a lialf miles to his hut, and finding his horse
standing at the door managed to struggle into the
saddle, and then rode over 20 miles to the nearest
township, Neerirn South. If Wigley had dis-
played nearly as much pluck in a red coat, killing
niggers, half the bards in the Empire would have
made factory verse about him, and his Queen
would have been graciously pleased to stick a
tablet on his chest.
One of the weird anomalies of N.S.W.
Municipalities Act is that it gives local councils
practically no power to recover rates upon un-
occupied land. In an enormous number of cases
the owner of a piece of unoccupied land leaves no
address, or else he is too far away to be sued to
any purpose, and so the rates get lost in the
gradual process of time. The taxes are collected
with energy from the man who occupies his
ground and puts it to profitable use, but the mere
speculator seldom pays. If a law were passed
authorising the seizure and sale of property on
which, say, five years’ rates had accumulated, a
good many dead-broke municipalities would begin
to look up once more.
The see-saw of professedly authoritative
opinions is illustrated in the present shearing dis-
pute. G. H. Cox, M.L.C., a N.S.W. squatters’
mouthpiece, endeavouring to show that the men
are rising against the “agitators,” lately said:
“Several men told me that they wish to shear
under the new rules.” Same day Williams,
M.L.A., mouthpiece of the shearers, said:
“Several squatters have assured me that they
wish to stay under the old rules.” According to
Cox, one set of agitators are drawing the meek,
mild shearers, against their will, into a fight
against the squatters; and according to Williams,
another set of agitators are drawing the meek,
mild squatters, against their will, into a fight
against the men.


TATTERS ALLS
CIGARS!
BIRTHDAY CUP-MAY 24th UST 50,000 at 5.
BIRTHDAY CUP.-MAY 24th 10,000 afc 10.
ilanutacturea at MADRAS 1891, KIMBERLEY 1892, and MADRAS 1893-
fOBACCO and Best LDNKAH TOBACCO at the ANNUAL EXHIBITION
been awarded
of the AGRI-
THREE PRIZE MEDALS
I ADR AS, on the 24th FEBRUARY, 1894.
Any of SPENCER’S TORPEDO CIGAR BRANDS can be obtained from the Sole Agents for N.S. Wales ;
HEYDE, TODMA.KT & CO.,
Sydney.
... TATTKItH l 1,1,,”
Care of Gkorgk Adams
. “The Teleirraph ” Chambers
QUEEN STREET,
. Brisbane, Queensland
SPENCER & CO., MADRAS.
The Largest Cigar Manufacturers in India.
As a Guarantee of the EXCELLENCE of their CIGARS, SPENCER & CO. have—in addition to the Awards gained by their
for Best CHEROOTS, Best DINDIGUL
HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY, held at
A. W. STEPHEN, L.S.,
HYDRAULIC ENGINEER.
Surveys and Estimates on Irrigation Works a Speciality
MULGOA, N.S.W.
IDIRIIETIC
BOYEIL !
The Life Sustainer,
FOR THE MUSCLES. FOR THE BLOOD.
FOR THE BONK
THE FORTIFIER PROM DISEASK
The Great Giver of Strength
TO
COHSUMPTIYKS & WEASLIHCS
Jonsumed by Athletes and Men in Training
In Enormous Quantities.
Sold by all Chemists and Grocers.
RANKIN & CO., Sole Agents,
SYDNEY.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
“LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
ġ
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK,
ASTD
EVERY
CONCEIVABLE
SHADE,
FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
‘LOUIS’ Velveteen
is essentially a ladies’
material, and surpasses
all Fabrics for the
adornment of women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE 'WE t. Each yard of genuine
“ LOUIS " Velveteen bears the name, and Is stamped
with a guarantee of wear. Ladles should reject au
substitutes.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer .
111 Try It,
mmm\
Posted (under cover)
t o any pa i t of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10, C
Sole Agents:
The Result.
Craig A Aitken, 680-682 George-sfc, Sydney
Nervous sufferers will ffnd it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s ad vt. on page
17 of this issue.
m
St
OFF TO THE DIGGINGS.
WHAT THE MINERS SAY.
THEY WILL NOT BE WITHOUT IT.
AN EXTRAORDINARY RECORD.
Those who have gone to the new gold rushes
to seek their fortunes must, of course, be prepared
to rough it. For instance, they should be ready
to combat rheumatism, neuralgia, lumbago,
sciatica, soreness or stiffness of the joints or
muscles, backache, bruises, &c. St Jacobs oil is
the acknowledged international remedy for these
ailments. It is the searching, sovereign cure of
pain. Get a supply before you go to the diggings.
The shrewd digger always carries a bottle of St.
Jacobs oil in his swag, for well he knows that it is
the only cure for his aches and pains. It is safe,
sure and harmless, and acts like magic. It is the
universal household remedy for pain, and marvel-
lous cures by means of it continue to be reported
every day.
THE MINER’S FRIEND.
ST. JACOBS OIL POSITIVELY CURES
RHEUMATISM.
ST. JACOBS OIL PROMPTLY CURES
ALL INTERNAL PAINS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE BY CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
’5
&
%
m
PILLS
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s Bills are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. 0. Ayer & Co,, Lowell,
Mass., XT. S. A.
Every Dose Effective.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer’s Pills —is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
gsS
m
OOMCIGHjItS
fifitiw
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the otheris
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. GEO. W. ELLIS.
k
BRISBANE CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BIRTHDAY CUP.
10,000 at 2 0
A.J.C. WINTER STAKES.
5000 at 2 0
(BRISBANE)
May 24,1894.
(RANDWICK)
May 26,1894.
(RANDWICK)
June 9,1894.
Address “STAR,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY,
Telegraphic Code: “WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
Colonies. Double and Straight-out.
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups—lo,ooo to 10 to 20.
V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup—s,ooo to 25 to 20.
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
:
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam, of Copaiba, Oubebs or In-
Each Capsule is
Stamped “ MIOY.”
jactions and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
out inconvenience.
Sold by all Druggists.
j Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. & Co.,
and
Australian Drug Co.
-tfr 11.■■■.■■I
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
(t Tales of the Early Days , ”
By PRICE WARUNG.
Bound in Boards, 2/4; Cloth, 2/10, post paid.
“BULLETIN’' OFFICE, SYDNEY.
r pO SHOOTERS.—Compute set of Reloading and Clean*
ing TOOLS, 12 gauge, orntral fire, containing de-
capper, re-capper, turnover, loader, extractor, powder and
shot measure, cleaning-rod, wire brush, jair, oiler, &e.,
free by post to any part of Australia for 10s. 6d. stamps or
P. 0.0. A. J. POTTER, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Read this:— Croydon, 23/1 94. Dear Sir,—l received
the set of tools some time since. I have reloaded hun-
dreds of cartridges and found the tools work splendid
and could not wish for better. In fact, lam quite sur-
prised with them for the price. You are welcome to use
this if you wish.—Faithfully yours, SAMUEL STONE,
Croydon, Queensland.
ģ
GIVEN A'WA'V IN 140 PRIZES
For Guesses on this Rebus.
Which represents when correctly solved the names ol Three Great Military Heroes of European
Celebrity. To the First Five Persons sending correct answer on or before June 30tb, 1894, we
will give to each A Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever Watch, Value £lO. To each of the
next Ten, a Sterling Silver Lever Watch, Value £3, To each of the next 20 a Nickel Silver
Keyless Watch, Value 25/-. To each of the next 25 a Ladies’ Solid Gold Brooch, Value
20/-. To each of the next 50 a Ladles’ Sterling Silver Brooch, Value 10/-. To each of the last
five correct answers, a Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever Watch, Value £lO. To next
25 a Model Sewing Machine or a Paragon Washing Machine. With your answer send
Fifteen Penny Stamps for a Box of either “Star Antihlllous Pills” best Liver, Kidney
& Bowel Regulator ever used. “Star Gough Pills” best Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza
“ Star Rheumatic Pills ” cures Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago. “ Star Neuralgic
Pills ” cures Neuralgia, Tic Doloreux, Toothache, These Valuable Gifts are made solely to
introduce our Wonderful Medicines, Every person answering this will receive list of names &
addresses of Prize Winners. Fair proportion of prizes reserved for each Colony; write at once
to The NATIONAL DRUG Co., Russell St., Melbourne, or MARSHALL BROS.,
Oor. Pitt & Park Streets, Sydney, Agents, for N.S.W.— Mention this Paper.
g
ĝ
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A curious coincidence : Some time ago The
Banjo” wrote for Tub Bulletin veisesentitled, “The Ace
from Snowy River’’—describing how The Ace, a black
country horse, a good juniper but very slow, was brought
to Sydney and put to steeplechasing. He was ridden by a
country horseman and won his race after falling at the
last fence. Some time after the verses appeared a black
horse, bred in the Snowy River district, became the
nroperty of a Wagga resident who had read the verses;
he called his horse The Ace, after “The Banjos”
imaginary steed. The moke came to Sydney and was put
to steeplechasing: he turned out a jumper of the slow
but sure order. “The Banjo ” was asked to ride him in
a Hunters’ Steeplechase, and, thinking there was some-
thing in the coincidence, he did so. He got the identical
instructions from the trainer that were given in the
verses, viz.: —
“Make the running," said the trainer, “it’s your only
chance whatever,
Make it hot from start to finish, for the old black horse
can stay.”
“ Banjo ” carried out his instructions and won his race
ifter a fall, but the fall was at the first instead of the last
fence. Curiously enough, his most dangerous opponent
was put out of the race by a fall at the last obstacle.
After this, “Banjo” thinks of starting in business as a
sporting prophet.
♦ • ♦ ♦
Since the days of “Sammy” Jones and
“Rcguie” Allen, the first century was compiled by a
Sydney Grammar School boy the other Saturday, when J.
Hind ey ran up his 122 in the match v. North Shore
Grammar School. Young Hinchey’s sire, James F., the
well-known amateur tenor, was no mean wielder of the
willow in the seventies.
* • • •
Notwithstanding their defeat by Melbourne,
the Sydney Grammar has now a stronger team than for
many years past, and the Melbourne match was an open
tiling until the last wicket fell. The whole strength of
school cricket in Melbourne appears to be centred in the
Grammar School team ; whilst in Sydney, capable teams
can be raised by the river colleyes, the High School,
Newington College and North Shore Grammar School.
« • « •
“Veteran” Harry Boyle comes through the
Melb. cricket season with the top halting average in Pen-
nant matches, and takes the Williamson and Musgrove
“ trophy ” of a 12-months free admission to their theatres.
Boyle’s distinction was not brilliantly achieved. Up to
last Thursday the ancient one had a record of 4 innings(3
not-outs) for a total of 61 runs, whereas Billy Bruce, in 7
innings (2 not-outs), had 325 runs to his credit. The
averages then stood—Bruce, 65 ; Boyle, 61. On Thursday
Boyle went in as last man for E. Melbourne v. N. Mel-
bourne, and speedily made 7 runs oil soft balls. The
trophy bi ing thus safe for the old man if he didn’t
lose another wicket, his colleague at the other end
made sundry attempts to get run out, or stumped, in
order to bring the match to a close. But, seeing that the
North men refused these disreputable invitations,
the colleague knocked his own wicket down, leaving his be-
loved Boyle with an average of 68 runs for 5 innings (4
not-outs). W. and M. could scarcely have intended to
create a “dead-head” under such absurd conditions.
The champion batsman’s highest individual score is 20,
whilst the runner-up, Bruce, has one innings of 169, and
even he didn’t score as consistently high as others who
played oftener.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Here’s the root-yarn of all
these Yankee-grab gags. St. Peter met Ihe devil.
“ Hallo, Nick !—haven’t seen you for an age 1 Shake you
for drinks?” “Right you are, old P’an ! Only, mind,
none of your miracles!” Devil throws 18 -then Peter
throws 21. Which is why they don’t speak now !—Paul.
» » * *
Ed. Bulletin,—The average cricket-barracker
can give the football-barracker points. I went to the
Coburg v. Hawksburn (Vic.) match, the other day, and
got into a nest of them. When one of the Coburg men
was chasing the ball a Hawksburn barracker yelled, “Go
it, yer beer-hog !” A big stout man bad the temerity
to remonstrate with him for this, and received an over-
whelming volley of abuse. Said one, “ Excuse me, mister,
are you an advertisement for 'Arper’s Oatmeal?”
Another, “No fear, Vs advertisin’ Norris’s Condition
Spice.” Then the original barracker chipped in, “Gain,
yer chumps, carn’t yer see Vs travellin’ fer Bull-Dawg
Stout! ’’ —Mao.
* » * •
J. O’Loughlan, the Victorian horse-trainer, has
decided to try bis luck as a teamster in Westralia. Pity
that a lot of other trainers don’t follow bis example
instead of wasting their days in preparing screws for
suburban meetings.
♦ * » *
Gov. Hopetoun, who went down to Warrnam-
bool races, must have done pretty well if he
backed the horses of his squattah friends, the Manifolds.
Apropos , the Australasian- reporter took pains to men-
tion that “ the victory of Mr. Manifold’s colours, in the
Steeplechase, was very popular,” a not surprising circum-
stance, seeing that Mr. M.’s colours were on a red-hot
first favourite. The same loyal newspaper forgot to
mention the awful gritf of the masses when Lord Hope
spoilt his chance of a race by running inside a post.
* * * *
When is the selling-race farce going to stop?
At Warrnambool races the winner of the selling-race.
Bulrush, was disposed of for £2l, while the third horse,
Wild Wave, on being claimed, realised £66—more than
three limes as much. And yet Bulrush led all the way
and won easily by a length.
* * * *
In Adelaide, football slowly declines, while
lacrosse increases in favour by leaps and bounds. There
are four senior football olnbs, and nine senior lacrosse
teams. Lacrosse players have increased a hundred per
cent, simply because the real amateur declines to play
football alongside the professional with his £2 10s. a
week.
* * • *
S.A. bookmakers realise that in fighting against
the abolition of betting they are alone. The racing-clubs
decline to run any legal risks on the bookies' behalf for
the obvious reason that increased money now goes throat h
the machine, and club percentages, since Kingston’s man-
date, have nearly doubled. Consequently the bookmaker
only exists in S.A. as an ante-post and “ doubles ” betlor.
It is a queer change. Instead of a medley of nasal elo-
quence and bad language, gold scarf-pins, and black tiles,
one now hears the click-click of the totalisator. Moreover,
the crowd doesn’t need to follow the machine about all
over the ground to prevent it from suddenly jumping the
fence and tracking for town. The tote never runs away.
♦ » » »
Fred Archer during his short career had 2611
wins.
* * * *
In Queensland the thoroughbred is at a dis-
count. Six were recently sold at an average of £4 6s. 3d.
* ♦ * *
Dr. Ross, late of Maoriland, is now manager of
New York Tatts.. and speaks none too favourably of
Australian blood stock.
♦ * * *
Where is the sense of keeping up Sydney elec-
torate cricket on the basis of the old electorates ? On the
other hand, the new electorates are too small to permit of
powerful combinations.
♦ « * *
An honest jockey now has to solely depend on
the big meetings at Flemington, Caulfield, and Randwick.
His honesty is not in much demand elsewhere. This
without prejudice to some smaller clubs which cannot
control owners, &o.
William Bell, ex-sergeant of Vic. police,
has just died, leaving £9710 worth of property.
As Bell bad a wife and family, and could hardly
have saved more than .£5O a year out of a ser-
geant’s pay, it follows that (taking his smaller pay
before he became a sergeant as a set-otf against
compound interest) he must have served 194 years,
2 months, 1 week, 4 days, 4 hours, 48 minutes, in
order to amass this sum. This shows in a confus. d
way the advantages of thrift, especially for police-
men.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
The market has been quiet this week, no auction-sales
being held, and although a few lots kept from previous
sales have been placed privately, the demand is not strong
enough.to show improvement, and prices may be quoted
on a par with ruling rates at last week’s sales. The general
interest is now fixed on the London sales opening
on Ist May, and opinions as to probable course of values
are greatly divided. There will be a very large quantity
of wool brought forward. News by cable will be to hand
in lime for local sales to be held next week and will, i 0
doubt, have a certain amount of influence on values—at
ill events, the results should form reliable data as to the
state of European trade,
L,o al receipts continue to be principally parcels from
country scouring establishments, and have also been
strengthened by the arrival of a few Queensland clips'.
Scoured wool free from burr, and scoured bulky pieces and
ueiiies may be mentioned as mostly favoured here just
now and find ready sale.
We hold our usual auction sale on Thursday next,
3rd May, and will bring forward a fair catalogue for
buyers’ attention.
Sydney, 28th April, 1894,


——GRAND DISTRIBUTION
—OF—
Victorian Freehold Property
AMONGST THE SHAREHOLDERS OF
The Melbourne Property Building Society, Brisbane, Queensland.
(INCORPORATED ACCORDING TO ACT OF PARLIAMENT.)
Proposed Issue of 40,000 Shares of £1 each, to be paid in full on application. N o Further Liability.
DISTRIBUTION OF 800 PROPERTIES AMONGST SHAREHOLDERS.
Share List Closes on tlie 20tli day of May, IQ 94.
PROPERTIES TO BE DISTRIBUTED BY BALLOT ON THE Ist DAY OF JUNE, 1894, IN PRESENCE OF THE SHAREHOLDERS AND THE PRESS, WHICH
WILL BE DULY ANNOUNCED BY ADVERTISEMENT.
SOLICITORS I
Messrs. MACDONALD, PATERSON and HAWTHORN, Brisbane ; D. E. BRAYSHAY, Esq., 309 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BANKERS ; OFFICES : SECRETARY :
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Brisbane. CENTRAL BUILDINGS, Edward Street, Brisbane. W. 0. MACDERMOTT.
The Committee have secured the following properties, the whole of which, or a proportionate part
thereof, according to the number of shares subscribed, will be balloted for amongst the shareholders,
free of any deduction for commission.
.FIRST PRIZE. —A substantial Freehold Brick Building and Factory, together with the
Valuable Machinery and Engine therein, in the centre of tlie City of Melbourne, and three minutes
from the General Post Office. Also, at rear of same, a substantial Freehold Brick Building and
Factory, with Shot Tower attached 175 ft. high, the finest in Melbourne, situate in the centre of the
City, three minutes from the G.P. Office, together with the valuable Machinery and Lead Rolling
Plant inclusive, three engines in complete working order, and of a rental value of <£l2oo per annum—
<£22,soo.
SECOND PRIZE. —A Villa Residence, containing 11 rooms, Bath Room, Pantry, and a large Ball
Room, Stabling, Coach House, Cow House, Fowl Houses, Piggery, Dairy, Laundry, and Man’s
Room, Lawn, Tennis Lawn, and Kitchen Garden, with Orchard, together nearly three acres, situate
and having a frontage of 89ft. to Dandenong-road, three minutes from a railway station, and within
one mile of the Caulfield Racecourse—<£3soo.
THIRD PRIZE.—A Brick Villa at East Malvern, consisting of 10 rooms, standing in its own
grounds, and situate a few minutes from the Darling-road Station, on the Waverley line, with a
beautiful view of the Dandenong Ranges—.£2soo.
FOURTH PRIZE.—A very picturesque Brick Villa, containing 8 rooms and Conservatory, on
land 66ft. x 270 ft., facing Dandenong-road, and close to the railway-station—.£2ooo.
FIFTH PRIZE.—A Brick and W.B. Villa, kno«vn as “Riviera,” situate at Carroll-street, on the
hill, at North Melbourne, on tram-line, containing 6 rooms, and let to an old tenant at .£75 per annum.
-.£looo.
v IXTH PRlZE.—Freehold Farm at Lilydale, consisting of IGO acres, let at £75 per annum.—
.£l5OO.
SEVENTH PRIZE.—77 Acres Freehold Farming Land, Gippsland.—£4oo.
EIGHTH PRIZE. —Land at Nicholson-street, Brunswick, close to the trams, 20ft. xlOOft.—£22s.
NINTH PRIZE. —Land at Victoria-street, Brunswick, 99ft. x HGft., close to the new bridge, and
near Moonee Valley Racecourse —£200.
TENTH PRIZE.—Land at Grant-street, Brunswick, IGOft. x 110 ft. —£24o.
ELEVENTH PRIZE.— 2\ Acres of Freehold Land at Mulgrave, on the Fern Tree Gully-
road —£120.
TWELFTH PRIZE. —Land at Lyle-street, Brunswick, close to the Gas Works and Sydney-road
trams, 36ft. x 84ft.— £llO.
THIRTEENTH PRIZE. —Land at Koorang-road, East Caulfield, 100 ft. x 150 ft., close to the
Sugar Works —£110.
FOURTEENTH PRIZE. —Land at Iris-road, Malvern, 50ft. x 130ft.—£100.
FIFTEENTH PRIZE.—Land at Toorak-road, Malvern, 50ft. x 131ft.—£150.
SIXTEENTH PRIZE. —Land at Fairfield Park, 60ft. x 132ft.—£75.
♦PRIZES 17 to 36. —20 Allotments of Lund at £5O each—£looo.
♦PRIZES 37 to 71. —35 Allotments of Land at £25 each —£875.
*PRIZES 72 to 221.—150 Allotments of Land at £lO each —£1500.
♦PRIZES 222 to 600.—379 Allotments of Land at £5 each—£lB9s.
To tail.
600 Prizes - - £40,000
* A Cash Purchaser has been found for the purchase of the Allotments of Land Nos. 17 to 600, at
prices which can be seen at the office of the Society.
Clear Titles for the Properties to be distributed as Prizes are guaranteed to this Society. Trans-
fers will be obtainable by successful Shareholders immediately after the Ballot, free of encumbrance
of any sort.
For Shares and all particulars, apply to SECRETARY of SOCIETY,
CENTRAL BUILDINGS, Edward Street, BRISBANE;
Or, care of
LOME Ft, ANDREWS <Sc CO.,
87 Queen Street, MELBOURNE, Central Agents.
Intending Subscribers should apply on attached form, and also enclose two stamps, one of which
will be used to return Share Certificate, and the other to send result of ballot. Register your letter,
and, until acknowledged, hold Post Office receipt.
Cu.t t3a.is Out.
To the Secretary of
APPLICATION FORM.
<2 'he (Melbourne property (Building (Society, (Brisbane, Queensland.
40,000 Shares of £1 Each. No Further Liability.
Please allot me Shares in the above Society,
in terms of attached Circular. I enclose for payment £\
also twot stamped envelopes for your acknowledgment of above and advice for result of ballot.
Dated this. . day of. ISDf
Name in full
Address in full
Occupation
1" Specify here if payment is by P. 0.0. or what. Please do not enclose stamps in payment ot
Shares. IST.B. —P. 0.0. preferred. If cheque sent, exchange must be added.
+ When enclosing stamps for reply-postage, if stamps be other than Queensland, do not attach them
to envelopes. Amount of stamps may be added to P. 0.0. or Cheques, etc.
Medical.
pAir in Iter
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Is. and 2s. 6d.
M. BEETHAM iSON. Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT UROS., Sydney.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
tty will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
_L nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98,O’Connell St.,N.Adelaide, S.Australia
It. G. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Hair Will Go Grey.
Va
GOOOH’S
ELEJIEIC WASH
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
a.i occasional application
only being: necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 2J5 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.).
Importer of Human Hair,
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
WANTED, Complete Files of The Bulletin
of 1884 and 1887. Manager, Bulletin
Offi.de, Sydney.
Medical.
BEFORE AFTER
MOUSTACHES • IN ■ A ■ MONTH
Von Ritter’s Celebrated Hair and
Beard Mixture prevents the hair fall-
ing out; positively causes a luxurious
growth on the baldest head, and forces
whiskers and moustache in a few weeks. Recommended
by the faculty, and extensively used by the nobility and
military of Europe. Never failing in effects ; easily ap-
plied, and guaranteed harmless. Thousands of young
men, having used i to 3 packets, already wear whiskers
and moustache ; its rapid action surprising everybody.
Write at once; letters answered by return post. Packets,
as. each, 3 for 55., post paid, sent free from observation.
Address STEPHEN PRINCE & CO., Sole Australian
Agents, Box 565, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W. [Resist'd.
Oriental Female Pills.
Triple power. Restores regularity without fail, no matter
what cause. Sure and safe. Large Box, posted, ss.
ORIENTAL VIGOUR PILLS for MEN. Large Box, ss.
Write W. W. Garfield, 325 West Collins-st., Melbourne.
Healthy women and happy
CHILDREN.
The great English Astrologist, *Mme. DE RAYMOND,
reads your character without a question or mistake, with
as much ease as if she had known you ail her life. Re-
main not in darkness and ignorance, but seek the light
of knowledge, and learn what the future holds forth for
you. Like a meteor flashing across the darkest sky, this
brilliant Astrologist Visits Australia for the First Time to
impart the power, and the hitherto unknown knowledge,
« hich will dispel the heavy gloom and bitter woe from
thousands of blighted hearts.
Every mother should know the innate nature of her
child, the planet under which it was born, the un-
developed temper, the unformed habits, the particular
trade or calling it is best adapted for, to what sickness,
dictated by the heavenly bodies, it is heir, according
to its nature.
Mme. DE RAYMOND
has been pronounced in Europe and America as the
greatest living wonder of the present age.
If you are sick or in trouble, if you are involved or
unhappy she will make Life Worth Living.
*** 303 CROWN STREET, SURRY-HILLS ***
(opposite Public School). Hours—lo a.m. to 8 p.m.
Parlors Strictly Private. Fee, 2/6 ; Written, 5/-.
If UNABLE to CALL, send DATE of BIRTH.
'RUPTURE CURED
-FOR FIFTY SHILUHCS!—
Hilgard, Oregon, June 28,1893.
Dr. Pierce & Son.—Gentlemen: I am happy to in
Iform you that the Truss I bought of you last April has
/ completely cured me of a very severe case ofhernia,
f from which I have suffered for over 18 years. I was |
/rather sceptical about your Truss when I bought it, as I
f h ad tried several so-called Elastic Trusses withoutderiv-
iug auy benefit from them; but after using your Truss for I
a short time I was convinced that it was the best lever
■had, as it was easy to wear, and seemed to stop the severe
pains that often prostrated me while wearing the old j
Spring trusses; and now, in spite of my scepticism, I am/
Perfectly Cured, and can work with the Truss off ifli
fed so disposed, but I still wear it loosely as it is not]
inconvenient. You may add the above to your other/
| testimonials. Gratefully yours, FRED. HANSEN. a
above cure was effected in less than three J
I months time, at a total cost to the patient of £2.9.5. ,
Thousands of similar cures have been made. Pam-4
phlet mailed to any address. Write for it TO-DAYI J
Postage, 2j|d. Address Magnetic FI asl ie i
Iruss Company, 704 Sacramento street,]
| Sau Francisco, U. S. A, Please mention this paper./
Our Sydney Agents,
MESSRS. WASHINGTON H ■ SOUL & CO.,
of 158 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Keep a Complete Stock of Dr. Fierce’s Celebrated
Trusses for Adults and Children.
Send to them for FREE Descriptive Pamphlet
No. 1, with Price-list, etc.
Business Announcements.
CHAS. ANDERSON,
TAILOE,
30 & 32 Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
Best materials. Perfect Fitting.
MODERATE PRICES.
Patterns, Prices & Measurement Forms
ON APPLICATION.
HEWMAITS ATELIEK
FOR
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
314 G-EOBGI] - STEEET,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
J. Hubert Newman.
(Late of Oxford-street), Proprietor.
Bodalla Cheese.
GATJTIOIT.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODAILLjOL
Bears the Kcghtered Brand ol the Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Who’esale Agent:
JOHN SHEARWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ELDHIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Business Announcements.
K
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber's poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair.
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
ANTIQUE Oil. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use ; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG «5c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE.
080 tt 683 George Street, Sydney.
-THE—
Wentworth Hotel
4.
m
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress’
Telephone No. 1583.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
niinutes than all the years you’ve lived. Write. Prof.
HERMANN, French Specialist, 41 Collins Place East,
Melbourne.


alfaline vitality pills
Are a Reqistkrkd and Guaranteed Cure for the
Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Loss of Memory, Despondency, Irritability, Specks
before the Eyes, Confused Mind and General Constitu-
tional Weakness.
A Powerful and Genuine Herbal Remedy.
Special Powerful Course, 43 6 (posted); Ordinary Course,
23, 6 ; Boxes, 12/- and 6/-
YALUABLE PAMPHLET SENT FREE.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. JgiP” Testimonials.
Herr Rassmussen,
I . 5i7 George Street. SYDNEY.
Ouleiaane & Sous’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous*
And where does tlucle Sam come in?
Golemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Auction Sale.
The New Montalbion Silver Mining
and Smelting CoLimited,
(In Liquidation.)
for positive sale.
Saturday, 12th May.
CAIRNS has~ received instructions to
sell by public auction, on SATURDAY,
12th MAY, the whole of the New Montalbion
Silver Mining and Smelting Co.’s Property,
situate at Montalbion (N.Q.), in one lot. The
property offered is as follows
Smelting Machinery.
1 60-ton capacity water-jacket furnace ; 1 30-ton
ditto ; 1 15-ton ditto ; 1 tram-elevator ; platform
scales ; “ Hope” stonebreaker, 15" x 7" ; 1 30-h.p.
Robey engine; 3 roasting furnaces; 3 baker’s
blowers ; 1 Manchester pump; 1 Tangyo do; 1
Blake do (together throwing about 20,000 gals,
per hour); 3000 ft. assorted W.I. piping; tanks of
6000 gals, capacity; 2 Multitubular boilers,
14' x s'; and all appliances complete and in
thorough order.
Concentrating Machinery.
2 80ft. Linkenbach patent Buddies with 2 Spitz-
gastens, &c., 6 Jordan and Cummins patent
jiggers, 2 sets Cornish rolls, 3 elevators, 1 Blake
and Marsden’s stonebreaker, 7 revolving screens,
sampling tables, &c., &c.
General Machinery.
Spare shafting, piping, belting, firebars, fire-
doors, steel rails (about 3 miles), trucks, bullion
moulds, slag pots, slag trucks, 60ft. archimedean
screw conveyor, Bullivant’s wire tramway com-
plete for 1500 fathoms, spare pulleys, Briquette
machine, cupel furnaces and frames, 2 Avery’s
6-ton weighbridges, 1 Ruston and Proctor’s 12h.p.
portable engine, 6in. centrifugal pump,
rotary pump, 1 Bh.p. loco, boiler, donkey feed
pump, Bh.p. winding engine, lOh.p. winding
engine, lOh.p. multitubular boiler, Blake feed
pump, and 20 tons charcoal and a quantity of lime
and iron and firewood.
Buildings.
Office and dwelling-two storeys, 36'x 30':
Kitchen, toolhouse, cartshed, stables, store, and
weighbridge office. Dwelling and office furniture;
smelting shed, 210' x 110'; concentrating shed,
172 ft. x 60ft. ; laboratory and shed, 93ft. x 50ft.
Bathrooms, blacksmith’s shops, &c. Engine,
mine, and blacksmiths’ sheds erected at all the
mines.
The movable tools are estimated at, at least,
£lOOO ; the stores at iflooo.
There are 1500 tons of payable ore on the sur-
face, and 2000 tons of matte estimated to contain
40 oz. silver per ton.
The mines are exempt from work (or let on
tribute) until 26th April next, and all workings
are in thorough order.
The assaying and analytical plant is complete in
every requisite and material.
This is the most complete plant for smelting and
concentrating silver ores that has ever been placed
on the Australian markets. The machinery is all
good, and the purchaser may commence operations
without a week’s delay. Fullest enquiries as to
probable success are solicited.
An unfortunate entanglement with the banking
institutions during the late financial crisis, at
which time the capital of the Company had been
called up, forced this Company into liquidation,
the outcome of which is that the property must be
realised upon for the benefit of the creditors.
Further particulars of the whole, and Stock-
sheets of the Stores, etc., may be seen on applica-
tion to J. H. Rogers, Esq., Messrs. Alfred Shaw,
Limited, Townsville, and
JT oh.n Cairns,
Auctioneer,
; Gkace Street, HERBERTON, N.Q.
Herr Rassmussen,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist’s
Wonderful Discoveries,
AWARDED.
GOLD
anus
EDALS
-
*lih
m
Wfr
pH
LL
ALFA LINL_ .
CURED 100 000 FOR THE BLOOD *. NERVES.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
HEAD LABORATORY;
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
It is well-known that Herr Rassmussen, the
Celebrated Danish Herbalist, has devoted most of
his lifetime to the study of preparing excellent
remedies from medical herbs, and the thousands
of Permanent Cures effected by his Alfaline
Remedies, especially Blood and Nerve Affec-
tions, Rheumatism, Piles, and
Debility and Nervousness
has made the name of Herr Rassmussen familiar
and welcome in every Australian household, and
the general verdict of the Australian public and
press is, that “Herr Rassmussen has, for the last
ten years, served us well and faithfully, and cured
more sufferers than all others put together,” and,
considering that he has received over
100,000 Testimonials,
the originals of which may be inspected at his
Head Depot, as well as his Parisian Academy
Diploma and Gold Medals, no sufferer could do
better than to call upon, or send to Herr Rass-
mussen immediately for his free
“Natural Doctor,”
a medical work which gives the complete mode
of self-cure for the most obstinate Blood and
Nervous diseases, and which is sent anywhere
free and unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Nervous Complaints.
Herr Rassmussen has been exceedingly successful
in discovering a real Cure for all Nervous Affec-
tions resulting from Early Follies, Debility, and
known by the following symptoms Specks
before the eyes, giddiness, want of vigour, fullness
after meals, pains in the back, blushing, headache,
without ambition, foul breath, exhaustion, poor
memory, easily excited, irritable, always tired in
the morning, confused brain, and weak nerves and
spine. Such sufferers should immediately send
for Herr Rassmussen's world-renewned Herbal
Nerve Cure, known as the neverfailing
Alfaline Vitality Pills,
as they are a guaranteed and permanent cure, and
have been the means of restoring thousands to
Health, Strength, and Vigour.
Those About to Marry,
who suffer from any of the above symptoms,
should immediately take a course of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to enable
them to marry honourably. Should they suffer
from any taint in the blood, or have suffered from
any bad
Skin or Blood Disease.
manifesting themselves in Sores, Blotches, Pimples,
Discharges, Strictures, &c., then it would be
necessary to take a course of his
Alfaline Lock Pills,
which absolutely purifies the blood, cleanses the
skin, stops all discharges, and removes all spots
from the skin. Varicocele Powder, 6/- posted.
The Vitality Pills or the Lock Pills are sold as
follows Special Powerful Course, 43/6 ; Ordinary
Course, 23/6; Smaller Boxes, 12/- and 6/-; posted
unobserved and duty free. Lock Globulus, Box 6/-.
Rheumatism
cured for ever by taking his Alfaline Rheumatic
Pills. Boxes, 3/-, 6/- and 12/-; Courses, 23/6.
Liver and Kidney Affections,
cured completely by taking his Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills. Boxes, 1/6, posted.
Piles
eradicated, both bleeding and blind, external and
internal, by taking either his Alfaline Internal
or External Pile Powders. Packets, 3/- and 6/-.
Send for Pamphlet. Pile Ointment, 1/6 and 2/6.
Female Complaints
cured by his Alfaline Universal Pills. Special
Course, 43/6; Ordinary Course, 23/6; Smaller
Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Complexion Powder, 6/- posted.
Thin People,
wishing to get fat, should send for the Alfaline
Flesh Producing Powder. Packet, 6/- posted.
Fat People,
desiring to become thin (as corpulency is not only
very unhealthy, but also gives a much older
appearance to persons), should send for a 6/-
packet of the Alfaline Fat Reducing Powder.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier
restores the Hair, eradicates Dandruff, and pre-
vents the Hair falling off. Packets, posted 6/-.
iW" All Herr RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned below.
Correspondence held Strictly Confidential, and
Remedies and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover.
Any advice desired sen t free. These Celebrated and Regis-
tered Herbal Renn dies have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Ifass-
niussen. Register all letters containing money, Sydney
P. 0., Box 208—Telephone, 408.
Herr Rassmussen,
Chief Head Office,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Intercolonial Branches:
Victoria —150 Bourke Street. Melbourne;
Queensland—loo Queen Street, Brisbane:
S. Australia-154 Rundle Street, Adelaide;
N. Zealand-91 Lambton Quay, Wellington ;
AV. Australia—St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Itest for the Wearied Soles by trying
L L I s' S
(Registered; SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladles, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS ,
UNRE f;
QISTERED
IMITATORS
M.
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC|
round the ankle DO ; next ascertain the length a-.d width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,,
what are your peculiarities-a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with at
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical boolmaking is unknown,'
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
No matter how far in the interior you reside, ELLIS S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures - of narrow’-filting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other uni
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially'-
constructed lasts, giving the fool an ample tre d,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY—they are a “going <on-
cern ” from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw” or blister the feet, as most new hoots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items: Gent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6(1, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, ICs 6d ;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s 6d ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s 6d ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s fid; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s fid ; Primest French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s fid, Tops for ditto, 12s fid ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s fid (worth A 3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s fid; Three-quarter ditto, 26s fid; Half ditto,
23s fid; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
fid ; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s fid ; Ladies’ and Children’s
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies’ Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto E.S., 16s fid. In stock—
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d; Nice Glace Oxford Shoe, 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep. Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s fid.
THOUSANDS OP TESTIMONIALS.
“lam pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me; make me another pair. I give you my.
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“JERSEY. Government House, Sydney."
“Your boots are the best I have ever worn, both for-
comfort and durability.
“ FRED. T. BERMAN, Public School, Ooonamble."
“ The boots are a perfect fit, and beautifully' finished.
“A. M‘MILLAN, Warri, Coolamon, N.S.W."
“There can be no two opinions about Ellis’s Boots;
they are the best we have ever had.
“GEORGE GUEST, senr., Boggabri, N.S.W."
bPttiiAL COUPONS
Cut this Coupon out, for-
ward with your measure-
ments and remittance, and
the goods will be mailed
free.
ONE COUPON will
secure any
numberof pairs
as desired.
° ouZ ■'
BALMORAL
>fo MEASURE
KID leg
ST
25
Bflt
Ctf
UR
TO
H&MO CLOSED c rA55
TO STfl N D fc mi 1
'O
*0
*se
UUj
6 U/
LADIES
c °UPom
H|q h
BALMor^^
F// VfCq^c
UflM
PS
WORTH
25
FREE
POST
MEA^
•to
Special Notice ! Every customer spending' £1 will;
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to.
the value of
£lOO One Hundred Pounds! .£>l.oo
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns ; 2nd, value £5; 3rd do.
£4; 4th, do. t 3: sth, do. £2; 40prizes, value £1 each-
-10 do. at 15s. each; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.’
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Add exchange on Intercolonial Postal
Notes.
T. E. ELLIS,
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Headquarters at Gcorge-st., Sydney, Shortly*
HERR RASSMUSSEN, PH.D.
A Few Sketches of His Interesting Life and
Work.
Herb, Rassmussen, who is known throughout
the world as “The Celebrated Danish Her-
balist,” was born in the little kingdom of Den-
mark, shortly after its last disastrous war with
Germany. His parents being wealthy, and
belonging to the most influential class, he
received a first-class education, and displayed
exceptional talent in the science of botany and
botanical chemistry, and very soon surpassed
everyone of his fellow scholars in those sub-
jects, and eventually made the science of botany
his life-study.
Finding his native country too small, and its
flora too limited to extend his botanical re-
searches, he left for Australia, and landed here
in the beginning of 1879. His first object was
to learn the English language and become
familiar with the customs and habits of his
adopted country, as well as with its botanical
history and medicinal flora. Herr Rassmussen
had quite his share of the troubles and difficul-
ties which usually befall a newcomer in Aus-
tralia ; but he soon overcame every difficulty,
and after five years’ travelling through all the
colonies, investigating every known Australian
medicinal plant, and discovering many new
ones, he eventually settled down permanently
in Sydney in 1883, and then commenced a
most noble mission—that of turning his most
wonderful botanical discoveries to the benefit
and relief of suffering humanity. Herr Rass-
mussen succeeded in this gigantic undertaking
far beyond all expectations, and his name very
soon became a household word, not only in
every Australian camp, village and city, but
also throughout Europe, Africa and America.
Space will not permit to mention the
numerous cures effected by his now world-
famed Alealine Remedies, suffice it to say
that thousands of original testimonials may be
inspected by anyone at his Head Depot, 547
George Street, Sydney, many of which may
also be seen in his celebrated work, “The
Natural Doctor.”
There is no doubt whatever that Herr Rass-
mussen deserves all the success and praise which
he has met with, because he is a most scientific,
conscientious and genuine herbalist—his last
ten years record being so wonderful that his
remedies must have cured more human suffering
in that period than is usually effected by a
hundred average doctors in a similar number of
years. He does not hold any consultation
similar to a doctor; his whole business is
purely a Proprietary Herbal Remedy Business.
He simply prepares a genuine herbal remedy
specially for the nerves, and another for the blood,
and so on, which can always be relied upon.
He prints on the box containing the remedy its
price and all advice as to doses and diet and
other particulars, and advertises same, which
is the fairest way possible to conduct a business
of this kind. Any information or particulars
desired are given or sent absolutely free of
charge. Pamphlets are sent post free to any
person desiring one, containing all particulars
and many useful and valuable hints on health.
Herr Rassmussen has very large branches
of his extensive,v business in Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide,. Perth, Wellington (N.Z.),
and throughout the world. He is an
honorary member of several scientific socie-
ties, a gold medalist, diplomee and Hon.
Corr. Mem. of the Academie Parisienne des
Inventeurs, France ; last year he received the
Honorary University degree of Doctor of
Philosophy ; in 1887, he was presented with a
magnificent gold medal by several of his cured
patrons in Sydney, and also awarded a silver
medal in Denmark, 1888, a bronze medal,
Melbourne, 1893 ; and in 1891 he issued his
11 Natural Doctor,” a herbal medical work of a
high standard for which he received great
praise from the press, and which is now trans-
lated into many languages.
“A Yellow Astor”—the man who owns
Pall Mall Gazette.
St. Stead iu March Review :
It is owing to Lord Aberdeen's recognition of the fact
that the Pacific Slope of California was part of the
national heritage of the United States of American that
the lin turn flag is not flying at this moment over the
Golden Gate.
ihe New York Life Insurance Company
oners liberal terms and good territory to gentle-
men of ability and energy who desire to become
agents in town or country. The popularity of the
-New Yorks life policies is firmly established by
the fact that it secured, in 1893, the largest
amount of new business ever written in a single
year by any company in the world. Address,
with references, and stating previous experience,
if any Josiah Howell, general manager, Bond-
street, Sydney.
Dear Bulletin,— “ What is it that is
radically wrong with the N.S.W. land selection
laws ? The fatal flaw in selection provisions is
non-classification of value and non-classification
C) J areas in accordance with value and capabilities.
Briefly and crudely, we want the land divided
into four classes—lst class, worth £5 and
upwards per acre, open to selection in blocks of
not more than 40 acres. 2nd class, worth over
10s., not more than 200 acres. 3rd class, over
not more than 1280 acres. 4th class, worth
less than .£l, not more than 4000 acres. Land
remaining unselected to be re-valued every five
years. Paying a fair price for the land ensures it
being put to legitimate use, and blocks specula-
tion. Re-valuation of unselected land blocks the
professional selector. Land accumulation to be
prevented by prohibition of selection by, or
transfer to, holders of a certain quantity of land.
Under present conditions, this limit must be
acreage. With the land-tax machinery it could
be fixed more equitably by value. More stringent
conditions of residence, &e., are cumbrous and
uneven, and, with the above provision, unnecessary.
“ Rouseabout’s ” unqualified statement that the
present maximum is too big, is utter foolishness.
The maximum area should be sufficient to support
a family, 20 acres of some land will do this ; 2000
acres of other land will not. Up here (Bmgara) a
grazing full-block man, on his own capital, can
barely make a living; on half a block he would
perish miserably, unless supplemented from out-
side sources. “Rouseabout’s ’’ melancholy sketch
of the selector and his environments doesn’t fit
these parts, anyhow. Such pessimistic por-
traiture must have evolved from a boundary-
rider’s hut. The much-bossed station-hand has
mostly an envious grudge against the more inde-
pendent selector—till his chance comes— J. Blun-
dell. Bingara, 11th April, ’94.


X. acile s.
We Post to any address in the Colonies a pair of our
handsome, engraved Bar Brooches for stamps, 2/6. Our
A Uranian Gold Langtry Fob Chain for Ladies, stamps
29; equal to real Gold.
Faulkner & Co., 385 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Hammond Typewriter.
ğ
NEW ANVIL and SHUTTLE
MODEL, unrivalled for Speed,
Alignment, Impression, Portability
and Interchangeable Type, takes
any width of paper. Send for
I pecitnen of our beautiful work
before you buy any machine.
The MERRITT TYPEWRITER.
by Ministers, Doctors, Teachers, etc. Price, £4 48.
' ■ Australasian Agents: KEID and WILSON t
7 Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY,
v ~yinjf done any style of type at lowest rates.
Established —
HALF-A-CENTUHY !
(Smith # (Mannell,
SIIIUI MAKKIM.
HOSIERS & MERCERS,
298 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Shirts to Measure or Pattern.
From 50/- Half-Doz.
A 1 WHITE SHIRTS
(Ready-made).
Unequalled for Value from
30/- the Half-Doz.
InstructionsforSelf-Measure
ment posted free on applica-
tion.
** A Trial Solicited **
ġ
QUEENSLAND SADDLERY.
A TiL in want of the above should call on or send for
price-list to
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
supplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
Ml
TSnneti.
St. John's Works, London, W.C.
ģ
CENTS’ STRAWS
—)x(—
Single and Double Brim,
From 3s. 6d.
TERAI.
PRICE, Bs. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
With Puggaree, 2/- extra.
B. Moimtcastle & Sons,
832 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Publications.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
xx and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Muaic-
sellera, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 203 Swanstox §trkkt, MELBOURNE.
now Kinni, post ii:i:u i s 7««i.
$
The ballet
GIRL : Her Xhea-
t'ical and Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her hahits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on asalary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
India, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians,circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 2 2 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
be.had only of Madamk Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Syndey.
CHEAP MU SI C.
"PLAYFELLOWS.”
This popular Sons', by the composer of “After the Ball,’
and 1000 other popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &0., at 3d.
each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
20 J SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
aggregate balance sheet of the bank of new south wales.
_ MARCH 31, 1894.
(Including London Branch to 14th February, 1894, and New Zealand Branches to sth March, 1894.)
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation .. £861,852 0 0
Deposits and accrued
Interest .. .. 17,421,081 9 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amount at Credit of
Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee and Pro-
vident Fund)
Paid-up Capital—
Bearing
6 months’
Dividend 1,250,000 o
Bear ing
5 months
Dividend
from
Nov. 1,
1893 .. 364,300 0
Bearing
interest
at 6 per
cent, to
May Ist,
1894 .. 69,200 0 0
1,683,500 0 0
Reserve Fund „ „ 1,118,375 0 0
Profit and Loss .. _ 110,616 11 0
•18,272,733 9 8
2,510,667 0 1
2,912,491 11 0
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits and endorsements,
as per Contra
23,695,892 0 9
335,128 1 9
24,031,020 2 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
4,947,266 17 9
Bills Receivable, Bills Discounted, and
Remittances in transit .. .. 3,241,808 7 11
Loans and Advances to Customers . 14,894,667 9 5
Bank Premises 612,149 5 8
£23,695,892 0 9
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
Contra 335,128 1 9
£24,031,020 2 6
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, MARCH 31, 1894.
Or.
1894—March 31.
To Rebate (at current rates) on Bills Dis-
counted not due at this date .. £11,300 6 1
Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent.
per annum .... 77,679 3 4
Balance carried to Profit and Loss.
New Account 21,637 1 7
£110,616 11 0
1893 September 30.
By Amount from Last Account .. .. £20,864 15 8
1894 March 31.
By Balance of Half-year’s Profits after
providing for Bad and Doubtful
Debts, Reducing the Valuation
of Bank Premises, and including
Recoveries from Debts pre-
viously written off as bad .. 89,751 15 4
£110,616 11 0
Dr,
RESERVE FUND, MARCH 31, 1894.
Cr.
1894—March 31.
To Balance £1,118,375 0 0
£1,118,375 0 0
1893 September 30.
By Balance £1,010,000 0 0
1894 March 31.
By premiums on New Stock paid up .. 108,375 0 0
£1,118,375 0 0
1894—March 31.
By Balance £1,118,375 0 0
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
Wxj* vurniiicuc
OTICE UNDER REAL PROPERTY ACT-
APPLICATIONS having been made to bring the lands hereunder described under the provisions of
£ 6 /" e . Property Act, Certificates of Indefeasible Title will issue, unless Caveats be lodged in Form B
of the said Act, on or before the date named opposite each case respectively.
Diagrams delineating these lands may be inspected at the Land Titles Office, in Elizabeth-street
Sydney.
Dated at Sydney, this 20th day of April, 1804, at the Registrar General’s Department.
, CHARLES PIN HEY,
[2868] " Registrar-General.
OTICE OF FORECLOSURE UNDER REAL PROPERTY ACT.
In the matter of the application of Robert Campbell Close and James Scroggie, mortgagees under
memorandum of mortgage from John Valentine Warehatn, No. 185,333, dated 19th September,
1891, over the whole of the land comprised in Crown Grant vol. 1,021, fol. 113,
WHEREAS the abovenamed mortgagees have made application for an order for foreclosure of the
mortgage above referred to, accompanied by such evidence of default for six months and other facts,
as required by section 113 of the Real Property Act: Notice is hereby given, pursuant to the said Act,
that the land comprised within the said mortgage, as hereunder particularised, is offered and will
remain open for sale until the Ist June, 1894, which date has been appointed as the time upon or after
which I, the Registrar General, will issue to the applicants an order for foreclosure, which will exclude
all claim by the abovenamed mortgagor, and of any other person claiming through or under him, unless
in the interval a sufficient amount has been realised by the sale of such land to satisfy the principal
and interest moneys due, and all costs and expenses occasioned by such proceedings, and interest up
to the time of such sale.
A plan and further particulars may be obtained by application at the Land Titles Office, Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney.
Dated at Sydney, this 20th day of April, 1894, at the Registrar General’s Department.
CHARLES PINHEY,
F2Bfiol ' Registrar General.
[2959] Department of Mines and Agriculture,
Sydney, 24th April, 1894.
APPLICATION received in the I'epartment of Mines for permission to mine under roads, etc.,
under the Mining Act <>f 1874. section 28.
T. M. SLATTERY.
Cellular JErtex Underclothing.
A Positive Safeguard against Chills.
Recommended by Medical Faculty.
JUST OPENED:
MERINO and WOOLLEN UNDERCLOTHING.
Natural Merino Undershirts (half sleeves), 7 6
„ „ „ (long sleeves), 8/0
Natural Merino Pants 8/6
This line is specially recommended as easily washed,
unshrinkable, and very durable.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Day Shirts, Pajamas, Caps,
Hosiery, Belts, and Braces.
Sole Agents—
David Braham & Co.,
76 King Street, and 306-307 George Street, Sydney
(Nearly Opposite Hunter Street).
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 1, 1894.
r I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
I SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 9.
Bridges over M‘Donald River at First and Second
Crossing
Bridge, Schroeder’s Creek, road Casino to
Lismore
Construction of Trial Yard, &c., Wilcannia Gaol
Additions, &0., Post and Telegraph Office, Parkes
WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
Prospectus.
PROSPECTUS
OF
Bayley’s No. 1 North Gold
Mining Co.
(Known as Bayley’s Extended),
NO LIABILITY,
Coolgardie, Western Australia*
To he Registered in Melbourne as a No Liability
Company.
Capital: £25 000, in 50,000 Shares of 10s. each
<lO,OOO Shares paid up to 10s. each, and
40,000 Shares paid up to 4s. each.)
10.000 Shares paid up to 10s\
10.000 Shares paid up to 4s/
To be paid to the
Vendors
30,000 Shares paid up to 4s. are offered to the
public at 2s. on application and 2s. on allot-
ment.
Out of the proceeds of which, .£2OOO to be placed
to the credit of the Company free of any
deduction whatever.
10,150 Shares are already applied for, leaving only
19,850 available for application.
Provisional Directors.
(A permanent Board to be elected by the Share-
holders. )
Hon. Edward Langton, Melbourne,
Alex. Campbell, Esq. (Director Block 10,
Broken Hill).
James Monday, Esq., Geelong.
Joshua Vinks, Esq. (Western Stage Company),
Geelong.
Solicitors:
Messrs. Malleson, England and Stewart,
Melbourne.
Bankers:
Union Bank of Australia.
Legal Manager pro tern. :
John Ditohburn, Jnr., 17 Queeu-st., .Melbourne.
Brokers:
Melbourne—Mr. GEORGE D. MEUDELL,
59 Queen-street.
Ballarat Messrs. STODDARD & BINNIE,
Mining Exchange.
Bendigo—Mr. WILLIAM KEATING, Bee-
hive.
Geelong—Mr. CHAS. SOMMERS, Mercantile
Chambers, Moorabool-street.
Sydney—Mr. HORACE WOOLNOUGH, 93
Pitt-street
Adelaide—Mr. 0. R. HAWKES, King Wil-
liam-street.
Perth—Mr. J. S. READ, Perth, W.A.
Cr THE MANAGER pro tem, 17 Queen-street,
Melbourne.
THE Company is to be formed for the purpose
of working a 17-acre block of ground imme-
diately north-west and adjoining the Bayley’s
Reward Claim at Coolgardie.
The lease is the first that was taken up at Cool-
gardie, and has hitherto been known as Bayley’s
Extended. The Lessees, Messrs. Galle and
Martini, were prospecting in the locality at the
time of the wonderful discovery at Bayley’s, and,
having the whole district to choose from, they
selected this area.
The reason why this undoubtedly valuable pro-
perty has not been placed on the market before
this, is that the vendors decided to withhold it
until they were in possession of an unchallengeable
title to the ground. All the legal formalities
have been conducted through Messrs. Malleson,
England and Stewart, and the title now perfected.
The reports and plans, submitted herewith, show
that there are several lines of reef on the property,
all of which are auriferous. The Western or
Gorrie’s reef in the No. 1 South mine undoubtedly
traverses this property. The latest report of the
appearance of the reef in this mine at the 100 ft.
level is that the reef in the face is 14ft. wide; all
the stone carries gold freely.
The Bayley’s reef, when further developed, may
also be found to traverse a portion of this pro-
perty, or may be met with on the underlay, as the
principal workings of that Company are not more
than about 100 feet from the boundary line of the
two properties.
Mining operations have been lately conducted
on Block 183, north of and adjoining Bayley’s
No. 1 North, and a rich gold-bearing reef, 2 feet
6 inches wide, has been opened up a few feet from
the boundary, the course of which will traverse
through the No. 1 North property from north to
south, and should be cut in a few feet sinking.
Work is now being carried on under the super-
vision of Mr. Galle, one of the prospectors of
Coolgardie.
The alluvial workings on the surface of the lease
have been very rich ; indicating that the matrix
of the gold exists in the quartz veins in the
vicinity. With a good supply'of water, sluicing
operations would certainly be profitable.
REPORTS.
Melbourne, 9th January, 1894.
To the Bayley’s No. 1 North Syndicate.
Gentlemen, —I have pleasure in reporting that
I know the property adjoining the Bayley’s
Reward Claim on the north-west and known as
Bayley’s Reward No. 1 North, which consists of
about 18 acres ; Gorrie’s Reef, on which the
Reward Claim is situated, runs through the lease.
About 50 feet inside your boundary, and from 250
to 300 feet from the Reward Claim’s shaft, a shaft
8 feet deep has been sunk on the underlay of this
reef, which shows good gold. There are several
other reefs outcropping in various parts of the
property which is also very rich alluvial; the reefs
could be easily developed at a small cost. Know-
ing the district thoroughly, I have no hesitation
in saying that this is a very valuable property,
and should show good returns and pay from the
start.
William Ford
(Of Bayley and Ford’s Reward Claim),
Coolgardie.
4th January, 1894.
To the Bayley’s No. 1 North Syndicate.
Gentlemen, —Having been in Coolgardie 12
months, and having examined the mining property
known as Bayley’s No. 1 Reef North, I have the
honour to report that it consists of about 18 acres
of highly auriferous land. There are several reefs
through the property, and Gorrie’s Reef runs
right through it ; at the north end thete is a net
work of reefs. I have no hesitation in stating
that the property, with a very little outlay, will
be a payable and valuable one.
T. J. Oashmak.


SKINS
Kangaroo. Opossum.
AND ALL OTHER SKINS.
Rabbit.
SKINS
EXTEI>rSIV_E
PBEPABATIOISTS FOB THE OOMIITG
SEASON.
M‘BURNEY, WALLIS
N. M'BTJRNEY. I
E. S." WALI .18. f
B, 0. FRANKS.
S. J. HEAD.
15 to 29 years with the late Firm
of Mort &s Co., and Golds*
brough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Stores—Margaret Street and Circular Quay. Offices—Macquarie Street, Sydney.
The Best House in the Trade for PERSONAL ATTENTION to Consignments and QUICK RETURNS. MEMBERS OE THE FIRM CONDUCT ALL SALES. m' WRITE FOR
OUR BOOKS ON THE GET-UP OF SKINS, etc.
SlieepsKins and Butcliers’ Produce a Speciality.
Business Announcements.
A FREE GIFT !
Notice to our Country and Inter-
colonial Customers .
■vrO matter if you live in town, country, or another
TN colony, if you have a photo, of yourself or any dear
friend, and you want an Enlargement of it, send it to us.
We will make you from it a BEAUTIFULLY AUTISTIC
ENLARGEMENT on the Best Ground Opal, size 12 x 10
inches, which, when properly mounted, is suitable for a
frame 21 x 18 inches, and pack it carefully, and pay for
it through the new parcels post right to your very
door, for 10a. 6d. The usual price for this iame
thing in Sydney is Three Pounds Three Shillings
(£3 35.). We are doing this as an advertisement,
and while it lasts it is a chance of a lifetime. Under-
stand, there is no condition of framing or otherwise. All
you have to do is to send your Photo, and your Name and
Address, and your 10s. 6d., and you will quickly get your
picture, which w'e guarantee will charm you. ,
Now, every man who has looked through a camera, no
matter if he he the greenest amateur, knows perfectly
well that this cannot be done for the money in the ordi-
nary w'ay of business. Query—Then why do it? Answer
—We want to put out a limited number of our enlarge-
ments each year as an advertisement.
Or if you have a Photo., and you want more of it, send
it to us; we will copy it and send you Six Enamelled
Cabinets and your own Photo, for 6s. 6d., or 12 ditto ditto
for 10s., post paid.
When in Sydney, if you will sit to us for one dozen of
our Highly-finished Cabinet Portraits at 10s. per dozen,
we will present you with a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
PORTRAIT ENLARGEMENT of yourself on the BEST
GROUND OPAL, FREE OF CHARGE.
It is w'ell known in the Photographic Profession through
the whole of Australesia, and by every man in Sydney,
i hat we have the Largest Photographic Studios, Offices,
and Works, and employ by far the largest number of
artists and workmen in the Southern Hemisphere. This,
we think, is a sufficient guarantee that we will send out
none but the very best production possible in each case, as
we are thoroughly alive to the fact that each Picture
speaks for or against us. We cannot afford to be careless.
CAUTION. —As we have no agents in the country, don’t
give your Photo to anyone, but send it straight to ns ; it
is safe then. Note the Address: —THE CROWN
BROMIDE ENLARGEMENT COY., at
THE GROWN STUDIOS,
Corner Georye & Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
LIGHT. STRONG. CHEAP.
“SUNBEAM” O.K.
Price, with Cushion Tyres ... Sl4 0 O
~ with Pneumatic Tyres ... 17 10 0
Complete, with detachable brake, mud-guards and foot-
rests ; ball-bearings to all parts, including head and
pedals; unbreakable spokes; finished in best black enamel,
with parts nickel-plated ; strong hammock saddle, spanner,
oil-can and tool-bag.
Further particulars (post free) from
ZESJZJGrH & SE3X3C3-E3.
A GUARANTEE.
248 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Perfect Health
May be secured by all who follow th«
example of Mrs. Lizzie W. De Veau,
263 15th St., Brooklyn, N. Y., U.S.A.
Every Spring, for years, I have had
intolerable headaches, and total loss of en-
ergy, so that the season which should be
welcomed by me was a dread, for, as the
warm, pleasant days arrived, they brought
ft
■vo:
I
-er*
mk
-
&
to me lassitude and pain. My druggist had
known me from childhood, and advised me
to take, early in the Spring, Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. I commenced using it and have not
had, since then, the first symptom of head-
ache; my appetite is splendid, and I per-
form my daily duties with a cheerfulness
and energy that surprises myself.” *
Ayer’s IX Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair.
Made by Dr. J.O. Aver & Co.,Lowell,Mass.,Xl.S.A.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice
All the rage in Paris. Send 13 penny
stamps for latest Parisian preventative. National
Drug Co., Russell-st., Melbourne.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
g
In Patent
Air-tight Tins-
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Special Advertisements
NESTLES FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in sevtre cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum,
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Pro. Wm. O.
Leubk.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience -of its value and con-
venience.”—Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSTS.—VoI. XVI.
“ What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.” —Prof.
Birch-Hikschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO'S
‘‘Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOB
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats. Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes
It is lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being: free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
31 PerPeet Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
g
&
f NOURISH 11\
[ DEUCIOU
For INFANTS
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For travellers.
> MALTED MILK is made from the
> ifl richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
* parts of wheat and malted barley.
I |I/[ALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
| ill no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water
I ]W ALTED MILK is the best foou for fn-
( 111 fants “ The composition of Malted
> Milk resembles that of human milk.”
j — Lancet, April 4, 1891
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
i Being most nutritious and easily
1 assimilated, it is constantly pres-
-1 cribed by the Medical Profession
1 in England and America. “ Very
1 palatable,and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:—
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., Ltd , SYDNEY.
Malted Milk Co., 39, Snow Hill, Loudon, E.C.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT
PRICE Is. ... ... by Post Is. 3d.
Musical Instruments.
XMAS BOXES!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away!! (only 30,000)
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and yon will receive
in return a 4s. Sons. Walt* or Piano Piece,
f it e k :
HOWARD & CO. have a List of =£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Jlemeinher this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY -
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
Gruxis & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES.
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
6d. per week 6d
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK!
At 2d. and 3d. each —Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Hd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, U.S.W.
A2T Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strint/s, Flutes, Concertinas, &c.
DISCOUNT FOR GASH.
Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers. lEIi
Hotel.
m
SC
w
nn
m
>TM (Sydney Coffee palace” Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
lower Jloiiiain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board ... 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS. &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlookuu; Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the mkin
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
160 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Don’t Let the Moth Get In.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I overhauled an overcoat of mine the other day,
In the blazing months of summer it was brushed
and laid away ;
But the nipping nights of autumn spoke of winter
coming fast,
And hints of frost and sleet were borne upon the
shivering blast.
The garment long had stood the test of bleak and
bitter weather,
But now it lay before me and its threads scarce
clung together;
With many a hole in breast and back, with nap
and fur grown thin,
It told of cold times coming—l had let the
“moth ” get in.
There’s a moth, my fellow-trav’ler, on the rugged
road of care,
And its food is human weakness, and its name is
blank Despair !
But the man who claims to manhood, be his sorrow
what it may
He will boldly face the demon, and await a better
day.
Times are bad ? Aye, well we know it, but each
true man has his goal,
Can he fight misfortune better when the rust is in
his soul ?
Show your pluck, my suffering brother, though
your coat is poor and thin,
Square your chest, and laugh at fortune—and
don’t let the moth get in.
There are some worse off than you are—though
the pious turn away,
Though your old friends do not know you—well,
you’re better off than they !
If to-night you’re smoking tea-leaves, and your
bed is the Domain,
Shake the dews off in the morning, up, and breast
the world again ;
Ere the dawning, night is darkest, I have heard
old proverbs say,
So we’ll keep our muscles moving, and be ready
for the day,
And be thankful, while we suffered, that we bore
it with a grin
And while our clothes were shabby kept the moth
from getting in.
T. A. WILSON.
Dear Bulletin, —Be the uninterrupted
slaughter of divers at Darnley Island, isn’t it time
those gentle philanthropists whose benevolence is
bestowed upon sore-eyed dogs, girth-galled horses,
apd pipped chickens, gave this matter some atten-
tion? These are the people who go into hysterics
at the sight of a bird’s wing in a pretty woman’s
hat, and who have agitated against feather trim-
mings for years, because of the shocking slaughter
of dicky-birds entailed. When is the crusade
against pearls to begin ?— Snell.
H. : “Nothing can be truer than Hori
Grey on the demoralisation of newspaper-read-
ing. Even as a newspaper writer, one has to get
rid of the slough and eagmag. Just as Wilkes was
not a Wilkesite, nor Disraeli a Disraeli te, of the type
of hisfollowers, sothe pungent leading-article writer
is seldom other than a book-man. I have in my
mind’s eye the most brilliant leaderist ever known
in Melbourne, He had to do a leader on a burn-
ing debate, in the Legislative Assembly. There he
was, in the reporters’ gallery, lying full length on
the back bench, shut out from all view of the
members, and buried in Ariosto—or some little
foreign book that looked like it.”
Purves, the Melb. barrister, has started to
defend each of his big newspaper libel-actions by
assuring the jury that the plaintiff, the plaintiff—
“you may take my word for it, gentlemen”—
would never venture to enter the witness-box.
Then the guileless public comment on the im-
pudence of the man who wants damages, but
daren’t face the terrible Purves. Presently the
plaintiff does venture into the box, and ventures,
furthermore, to make Purves look ten feet smaller
than his original height, but the public are
not in the least disgusted with the system of
bounce which passes as fair in legal circles. They
only think:—“Speight, or Hayes, as the ease may
be, did go into the box, after all. What a nerve he
must have ! Purves must have been real glad to
have ago at him.” Now, in the event of a
Speight, or Hayes falling ill and keeping his bed
throughout the trial, the public refer back to the
words of the prophet, and think:—“Didn’t
Purves say we would never see the man in the
box? He knew all along. ’


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Two of a Trade.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Beckley stared, and Kamsut repeated :
“ The panther I gave thee I would have thee
lend me again for a space. Art thou dumb ? ”
‘’Thou shalt have him, Raja—and willingly.
But thou knowest”——
“ That thou wouldst send the beast to thine own
country ! Well, I will harm him not. And I
will answer the question thou hast not asked.
Tnat Sultan of the Ancients thou didst speak of—
he who cast unto wild beasts the founders of the
Christian faith?”
“ Nero ! ”
“Ay; Nero. Well, I would do with an un-
believer as Nero did. Thou knowest Hafan? ”
“ Surely, Raja! But Hafan is of thine own
faith !’’
“ A blaspheming dog he is—who revileth the
Commander of the Faithful! Yet, since he is in
some sort a Muslim, I will not take his head. But
with the panther will I shut him up. Let the
beast spare him, if it be the will of Alla!”
Now, since in Rubianak the will of Alla meant
pretty much the will of Kamsut, further discus-
sion was risky, and Beckley went away, wondering
what it all meant. Kamsut —autocratic as Fate —
was also just with a fierce justice. The old Persian
must have given him some serious offence.
“ Persian ! Why, that’s the clue ! The Persians
are mostly Shiahs-don’t acknowledge the Sultan
of Turkey as the Caliph. And Kamsut wants to
play Nero ! —or is it Henry VIII. ? ”
Ruminating thus upon the eternal sameness of
human nature, the naturalist missed a step of his
house-ladder, fell, and sat so long upon the ground
that Stubbs came hurriedly down the ladder,
“ Anything broke, Mr. Beckley?”
“ No bones, Stubbs—only this !”
The “stick-hunter” sniffed at the fragments of
glass which the other fished carefully out of his
pocket. “Laudanum! Oh, well, sir, you have
plenty of that left, at all events !”
Beckley, full of a new idea, went slowly up the
ladder and peeped into his medicine-chest before
he answered.
“Yes; and a good deal of the powder, too.
Lucky; for I rather think I’m going to give
Beelzebub one of the biggest doses on record.”
“Beelzebub? Beelzebub ain’t sick?”
“No! the brute’s only too well. I want to
make him sick. Look here, Stubbs —do you know
what’s the matter between the Raja and Hafan?”
“ Yes,” said the wondering stick-hunter,
“ Some argument about religion they had, and the
old fool of a dukun (doctor) stuck it out against
the Raja till Kamsut got wild and clapped him
into limbo.”
“Just so ! Well, Kamsut is going to put Per-
sian and panther together; so you and I are first
going to put the panther and a thumping dose of
opium together ! See ! ”
Stubbs opened his mouth at the greatness of the
idea—then shut it with a disappointed snap.
“Best lark I ever heard of, sir! —but it won’t
work ! Can’t pour laudanum into Beelzebub as if
he was a pet poodle !”
“There need be no laudanum in the matter,
any more than there’ll be any ‘lark’ in it, if
Kamsut finds us out. Only for that I’d poison
the brute outright! Look here ! —this is opium-
powder. Strong dose for a man—two grains ; so
our spotted friend’s prescription shall run, ‘ Pulv.
op.—grains 6,’ ‘ Sine mord,’ too, friend Stubbs—
‘ without delay !’ Get me a lump of pork !”
* * #
The Bornean panther—smaller than the
Indian—carries probably as much devil to the size
as any created thing. So, when the Raja’s kaki
brought over a party of bearers to carry the beast
away, cage and all, they went to work like men
with candles in a powder-magazine. But the
creature—flattened out, cat-like, on the floor-
regarded them with such sleepy indifference that
they grew foolhardy, and one of them poked a
stick into Beelzebub’s orange-coloured stomach.
Like a flash the brute’s lithe fore-arm was through
the bars, and the man rolled over with four razor-
gashes on his dusky shoulder. The others
laughed, and the fellow lay and screeched till the
kaki kicked him.
“ Arise, beast! and let Bekkel tuan dress thy
wound. _As for Hafan, he will dress no more
wounds, if he once goeth inside that cage !”
• * #
Kamsut sat beneath the Teak of Judg-
ment, and pointed to the slumbering panther—
motionless as an image, but for the scarce-seen
heaving of the white-margined flanks.
“Look now, Hafan, upon that beast, and
ponder well thy words ! The Sultan of Turkistan
—upon whose name be peace!—he is the Holy
Head of Islam —the Caliph of the True Believers !
Is it not so ? ”
Slender, long-gowned, small-featured, and silver-
bearded—the Persian physician stood boldly up—
the frail environment of an indomitable soul.
Calmly he looked upon the sleeping panther, and
calmly upon the Raja; then he spat upon the
ground.
“Thus do I spit upon the beard of him whom
thou ignorantly miscallest the Commander of the
Faithful! Do thy worst!—thou and thy fellow-
beast !”
“On his head bo it!” said Kamsut. “In with
him !”
“ I suppose the old chap’s pretty safe?” Stubbs
whispered to Beckley, as the Persian was hauled
up on the top of the cage.
“ Safe for hours! The opium’s got firm hold !”
Breathlessly they watched, for all that, as the
unlucky dukun— thrust rudely through the roof-
trap—fell plump upon the elastic body of the
panther. Nought followed but a twitching of the
tail; the old man scrambled from his terrible
cushion, and Kamsut sprang to his feet.
“ A spear !” he shouted. “ Bring a spear ! and
make the lazy brute feel it!”
Prod after prod was given with a Dyak spear,
but not till the broad head was plunged half out
of sight into the spotted hide did the brute give a
smothered snarl and roll lazily over. The wicked
green eyes opened for a moment upon the man
within reach, a half-delivered sweep of the paw
made a long rent in the Persian’s robe, then again
the huge cat lay motionless as stone. The Raja
walked half-way to the cage—turned then, and
fixed a baleful eye on Beckley. Stubbs breathed
hard. “ Now for it!” Beckley heard him mutter,
but the man of many dangers gave look for look,
until Kamsut, with a short laugh, went back to
his mat and sat down.
“Bring Hafan hither!” he said, and a dozen
disappointed hands fished out again the unscathed
recalcitrant.
“ Hafan,” the Raja said, “ thou art a blasphemer
and a son of perdition, but thou art a dukun of
much knowledge. What thinkest thou would
make a beast to slumber so that a spear-point
should not rouse him?”
“ Raja, I do not think !—I know !”
“Thou knowest! Good! Tell me, then, thy
thought, and thee will I forgive—whoever else I
may punish.”
“ The beast, O Raja ! hath been given of iromut
—the sleep-drug of the Kini ’’ (Chinese). “ Come
with me to the cage and I will show thee !”
Kamsut stood close to the bars while Hafan
clambered into the cage again and coolly dragged
one of the panther’s eyelids away from the big
green iris. “In cats’eyes, as thou knowest, Raja,
the pupil is but a slit in sunlight. Yet behold
how, in this creature—which is but a oat—the
pupil stares, round and open, in the face of day, as
it should do in the darkness. The Kini-drug
doth this to man and beast.”
“Come out!” the Raja said. “Thou art for-
given ! And thou, Bekkul, stand forth ! No
need to ask thee if thou didst this thing. Why?”
“ To save, O Raja ! if I could, a life.”
“A life? This man’s life? By Alla, Bekkul,
thou raovest me to laughter. Knowest thou not
that this Hafan—this rival dukun— was jealous of
thy skill?—that but for me he would ere now have
poisoned thee or slain thee with the sword of dark-
ness ?”
“All this did I know, Raja-and I thank
j. bee |» ’ J
Kamsut gazed at the white man-uncompre-
hending
“ All this thou knewest already !—yet would’st
thou have saved this Hafan’s life. Man, thou art
mad j.. ’
“Not so, Raja. Ido but follow my nature.”
Tr t . „
Kamsut took a turn or two in silence-all men
watching him. Suddenly then he unbuckled the
belt of the Indian tulwar he wore, in place of kns,
and put the sword in Beckley s hands.
The white man poised it. “A heavy hilt,
Raja, he said. Gold. ~ ,
Ay! sohd—not gilt! It is thine, Bekkul, to
remember Kamsut by—for elsewhere must thou
go to follow thy nature. Such natures live not
long in Rubianak.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
“There is nothing so unbecoming to a
woman as a Nonconformist conscience.”—Oscar
Wilde.
Thomas Hardy, author of “ Tess of the
The rather free-and-easy mode of life, adopted by the
squires of the last century, has contributed to the ancient
lineage and to the fine features ot many of the labouring
classes in this neighbourhood. A gentleman told me the
other day of a whole village to which he was related
through his grandfather.
A whole village! Don Juan and “Champion
Lincoln ” must be considered mere amateurs and
dilettanti compared with this gentleman’s grandpa.
t-, T> rTTT rv 1 J • /’i
Dear Bulletin,—One lady in a Queens-
land township which the Bulletin reaches on
Thursday evening grabs it as soon as the mail
arrives and gloats over it for four solid hours, while
her family anxiously hover round and mildly
insinuate it is time their turn came. She reads
every line, all the advertisements, and the cover,
and at 11 p.m. flings it on the ground and marches
off to bed with the invariable comment, “ Beastly
paper!” “But why do you read it?” expostu-
lated her spouse. “ D’you think I would condemn
it without reading it? D’you think women have
no sense of justice ? ” This is all the satisfaction
I get, and she continues to monopolise the “ beastly
paper ! ’’—Her Spouse.
My Girl, Prudence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They called her “ Tottie.” I blocked tha... Tottie
is all very well for a baby, but for a fine, healthy
woman, a handsome woman, Tottie is blasphemy
especially when her name is Prudence. And Pni
won’t fit, nor Prudie. Nothing but Prudence
suits her—or suited her, because, confound her, she
jilted me.
As I was much older than Prudence, she sug-
gested that she should call me Uncle—just for a
lark, you know, and to deceive the corner loafers
of Bandanna and the “ he-he ” flash pups on the
station. I had known her since first she made
dough in a tin dish and floured her arms to the
elbows and omitted to wash the paste from her
nails.
Then I missed her for ten or twelve years, and
met her, on my return from the Bellinger, at
Dreary Plains. She knew me, but I did not for
the moment remember her.
I can’t swear to love ; but it was “sticking up
to ” and “ right bower ” business, in the horrible
slang of the aforesaid pups. One of these dogs
trained horses. My duties kept me close to the
station, and the trainer’s allowed him libeity to
ride. Like the Baron Mowbray, he loved (or not)
and he rode away, taking with him Prudence -at
which stage you may call her Lottie, or Pru, or
Prudie, or Hecate, if you like.
But he did not have it all his own way. He
wanted possession without benefit of clergy, and
that did not suit my niece, who threatened to
telegraph for uncle. In the meantime, his horses
were fit and had to run at the Lovington Bend
races. Somehow or another they were all amiss
yet they could not have been nobbled. No one
had entered the stable except the trainer and his
sweetheart. lam sure that the latter looked after
them, because she had consulted a rascally
travelling vet. ; who gave her a “condition”
powder to put in their feed. I suppose it was bad
luck that the dose did not improve the horses, and
there was a certain amount of evil in not having
the blessing of the priest or the ministrations of a
parson.
However these things may be, my niece and I
are becoming reconciled. In fact, she is again my
girl, Prudence.
SCOTTY THE WRLNKLER.
When Archbishop Vaughan (It.C.) died
years ago, Bishop Moorhonse (Anglican),
Melb., referred in his sermon the following Sun-
day to “ the severe loss sustained by Christianity”
through his demise. Bishop Perry. Dr. Moor,
house’s predecessor, never referred to the R 0
bishop but as “ The Popish Bishop.”
TX 1 - t-,.
Hordern Brothers, 200-ll Pitt-street (only),
are to the front, as usual, with their grand display
D f goods suitable for the present winter season
and the assortment of new lines shown in every
department (evidencing good taste and judgment
of their home buyer) cannot fail to please even
the most fastidious purchasers. As this well-
known firm is making a special inducement to
country customers, by sending all parcels of
drapery free, its efforts should meet with good
results, and as all orders receive prompt atten-
tion—the goods being despatched the same day
the order is received—people living in the country
are catered for as well as, if not better than, those
living within a stone’s throw of this popular estab-
lishment. Their only address is Hordern Brothers
203-11 Pitt-street, Sydney.*


“ Men I Have Smiled With.”
STAY at Bruton’s,
’NansnnoD
SOUTH BRISBANE.
Tlie “PAiAC’I FAMILY HOTEL” ia a
Waterside Paradise.
MOUNT VICTORIA.
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
rrHK GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
, ... Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms; and special terms
( r fo'tiilies. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
IrhiS Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
Swine’ all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel or office, 1a Hunter Street.
1:101 Gr*. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
MOSS VALE.
WOODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
G
Station) is where we always stay.
Q 111 BIN I) I.
O’HALLORAN’S terminus hotel
is Tip - TOP.
ARMIDALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
jVEi’SS. IE 3 . 'W'EIiC^Lo’S
TATTERSALL’S hotel.
The Traveller’s HOME in New England.
WEST MAITLAND.
Vou can’t beat Fry’s Grand Central Hotel
for'posihon. - - * '
T
Hennessfs Queen’s Hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
Acknowledged to be the FIRST HOTEL in
Queensland, and patronised by their Excellencies
the Governors of Queensland (Sir H. Norman),
and of N.S. Wales (Lord Jersey).
Blue Mountain Hotel,
Near TOOWOOMBA.
To Meet the Times, the Prices in this POPULAR
SANATORIUM have been Reduced to 42/- per
Week. FREE use of Buggies and Billiards.
Every Comfort as Usual. Conveyance meets
trains at Harlaxton on receipt of Letter.
C;'. .. E. EVERINGHAM, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW.
the club hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL in
11, eensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
L;,in. Private Suites. George A. Godsall.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting s from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
GUNNED AH.
CURLEY’S “ROYAL’
Is The Australia of the North-West.
T. CURLEY, Proprietor, and Patentee of
Volcanic Soda Machines.
MUSWBLLBROOK.
Hullo here we are, let’s stay at JIM GREEN S
Hotel.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
PKOM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
' '/ . m
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney.
6 ®
T
ALES OP THE
CONVICT SYSTEM.’
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
Posted to. any Australasian Address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
■24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Medical.
Sr
R Descriptive Treatise,
which every Weak, Nervous and
Debilitated Man should read. Sent
Sealed, 4 Stamps.
No Stomach Drugging.
Thousands have proved the efficacy
of Urethral Treatment Consulta-
tion and diagnosis free. ' Confidence
bsolntc fures guaranteed. YARICOCELE CU RED.
DR. GEORGE WALSH. _
BST 131 Collins Street, Melbourne,
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 14.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only ONE guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Thursday, 31st
May, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“.BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
" The Bulletin's ” Missing Word Competition Coupon.—Ho. 14.
Cut this out, m in the mining word, and
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, J •nil e
Sydney, in time to be received, by Thursday, 31st x ay,
Disunion means defeat. The N.S.W. Labour-members of Parliam
the sweets of power, are naturally loth to relax their grip, wh J Council a seat on
jealous, aggressive and ambitious members of the Labour Eleotoral League d act
which is the half-way stage to a Labour-membership, attri-
accordingly. Hence the present -< »ndition of the party ® Gounoil are
butes much of the present disunion to the fact that, in the E. ‘ { i mman nature,
many avowed candidates for Parliament, who, m the ordina . own cauge> the
fight “ for their own hand.” As no man can be a competen t g fatal defect in the
presence the L.E.L. Council Board, of Parliamentary candidates is a fatal
Council's cdngfitution.
Name ;
Address _
Missing Word
•ssgssa fessfes ■
N B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation o tie paper.
“Bulletin” Series, KTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
SECOIsTID EIDXTTOIbT
,O—
F“A Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Terse,
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
M Bulletin ” Series, IKTo, 3.
“The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST PAVENO.
With Prefatory Note hy Rolf Bold re wood.
oJT the Egress :
Opimons
“ The volume l ikes its name from one of the sketches. ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of me.it they all stand pretty well on a par. The,
author who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, « rites with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives hi these fat away
parts A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who are tend of
work the volume will prove attractive reading.” S.M. 11 ehaLd, July 8, 1893.
realistic work the volume will prove
; No writer has given the world a more
dvid description of Australia and its wilderness than Tiniest Favenc, and the secret of tlili is that
no h,, hv many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcely an, other writer.
He too possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever ho puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under notice he has given us some of
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain.”— Sydney Mail, July 8, 18J3,
from lon
contact and keen observation, striking pictures of
suspicion of imitation by
haracteristic is
especially noticeable in‘Spirit Led,' which the great American might have written. ‘A Cup of Gold Water is, perhaps, the
best tale in a collection that should be widely read, and which hums a worthy addition to purely Australian literature.”-Daily 1 elkgUAi’H,
July 15, 1893. ;
“‘The Last of Six and other stones. By F nest Favenc. (Sydney: Thu Bulletin Newspaper Co) This is a collection of stunt but
hie skct chc' b ,r Mr * FaVenc the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the s'cries here arc good,
fndwe can heartily endorse the ■recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collect'mu. The present issue forms the third Of Ti
Bulletin scries of' Australian rcminisceuccs.’’-AtvrKALiAN Star, July lb. !««.
Price ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


EPP S ’ S
G3ATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
Let t be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT —
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Sol© IMEaiiufa.ct'u.rer
OF THE
CELEBRATED
LIOW ”
7
RAO
BRAND
C o nfe c ti o fiery.
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Centra) Coffee Palace).
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
k»\ i;m, ti.i'.o.
Tfli'liJjone SJ*:
..MAM MATT.'SONS.
MANUFACTURERS OF ,
Silver and Electro-plated deeds
—AND—
C'CJ'XX.EIEre -
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Bllow H.ooma l
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
The I IMPERIAL HOTEL,
■w , Y3xr'sr-A.mi> sqt7./kje«.:ei, sYii>ixr:E33r
(Established ovbu Thirty Tears).
The most Homely, Comfortable and Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tariff, 10s. 6d. per Day. Walter Sidney, Manager,:
t NOTICE.
Headers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated , will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may he unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who too aid pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD and ICE COMPANY (Limited)
FOR
OFIE-A.3VIEIVY BUTTER
In One Found ox* Half-pound Pats.
The CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured by this Co. is unequalled in Aistralasia. Brand—“GOLDEN STAR.”
The Awards at the recent Royal Agricultural Show (21st March) were for:
BUTTEKr (N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.) — First Prize for ONE CASE, not less than 50lb. weight, for Export
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd— First Prize for CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured for local consumption.
T la.o C3HT.A- IL/CIPIOIiT RESIZE for Crearrrerjr Bvitter
Thus the S.M. Herald of 22nd March : “ The principal feature of this year’s Show of these products was the excellent quality of this butter "
Butter forwarded to all parts of City, Suburbs & Country
.Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney. H. PATESON, Manager. I
•e
JM
aeSE
wm*' *
■•■> •• - ;s.n%sSj*.
.. -* • •' -•■
LADIES ! The ;<bove is a faithful representation of
MARK FOY’S
£4l7s. 61 Bedroom Suite
WELL AND FAITHFULLY MADE IN CLEAR KAURI PINE.
Eoy has other Suites at
£6 19s. 6d.
£7 7s.
£l2 10s.
£l5 15 s.
Increasing in Beauty, Durability, Quality and Quantity,
ACCORDING TO PRICE.
But all are Good.
n Fuin’.ture, Bedsteads, Bedding, Carpets or Matting, there is an
earnest endeavour to excel at
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET (Hyde Park), SYDNEY.
’vSs£
OEOSVENOR HOTEL,
SYDKTEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. Sd. per Cay.
VISITORS CAN AVAIL THEMSELVES OF THE SEPARATE TARIFF. 'k I
SINGLE ROOM, 4s. - - DOUBLE ROOM, Bs.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
—~3Q«s» f-v-M i
‘Tales of the Early Days’
(By PRICE WARUNG).
Bound in Boards, 2s. 4d.; Cloth, 2s. 10d„ post paid.
*
“Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
. Price: Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
o
From all Newsagents.
