

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST,
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE GO.,
Established 1845.
PURELY MUTUAL.
Accumulated Funds, Ist January, 1894,
SURPLUS,
Ist January, 1894,
£3,503,216,
Certified to by the Insurance
Department of the State of
New York.
JOHN A. M‘CALL, President
New Business,
1893
£46,059,463,
Being the Largest Amount of
New Business ever secured by
any Life Insurance Co. in a
Single Year.
The Non-Forfeiting Free Tontine Policies
Of this Company include the advantages of the Tontine Principal of Accumulation (securing
valuable investment features in combination with insurance at low cost), with guaranteed options
at the end of the Tontine period. Are notably Free from Restrictions as to occupation
lesidence and tiayel, and arc incontestable after JLwo Years, except in case of* frand.
Colonial Offices:
408
VICTORIA:
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
227
QUEENSLAND :
Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
NEW ZEALAND:
Custom - House Quay,
WELLINGTON.
NEW CALEDONIA:
A. JOUVE A Co.,
NOUMEA.
FIJI .
A. BRODZIAZ A Co.,
SUVA.
CHIEF OFFICE, DEPARTMENT OF AUSTRALASIA,
Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
Josiah Howell,
UVEAUNTA
CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
OF THE
BULLETIN
Yol. 14-No. 774.]
[Saturday, December 15. 1894.


it3T NOTE. —As most of the books men-
tioned are in strong demand, some may
be temporarily out of stock. In such
case, orders will be filed, and. the books
forwarded immediately on arrival of next
shipment.
Any book not in this list will be for-
warded on receipt of price, particulars
of which will be given to enquirers.
"THE BULLETIN” BOOK EXCHANGE.
On receipt at The Bulletin Office, Sydney, of Postal Order, Postal Notes, or Stamps equal to the price stated (which is
published price with postage added), books in the subjoined list will be forwarded to any Australasian address.
PITMAN’S SHORTHAND BOOKS
Every enterprising man catches short-
hand, like measles, at a certain stage of
growth ; and Pitman’s is, on the whole, the
best system to catch. It is simple, scientific,
and reliable.
The books recommended to the student on
commencing the study of Phonetic Short-
hand are the “ Phonographic Teacher,”
“Key,” and “Progressive Studies,” or
“Pitman’s Shorthand Instructor” and
“ Key.” The art may be learned from these
books without the aid of a personal teacher.
The Phonographic Teacher ; or First Book
in Shorthand, a Guide to a Practical
Acquaintance with the Art of Phonography
or Phonetic Shorthand, containing a Series
of Progressive Lessons. 7d.
Key to the Phonographic Teacher. 7d.
Progressive Studies in Phonography ; a
simple and extended exposition of the
Art of Phonetic Shorthand, as set forth
in the Phonetic Teacher, Manual of Phono-
graphy, and Reporter, intended as a sup-
plementary book to these three. Is Id.
Pitman’s Shorthand Instructor ; a complete
exposition of Isaac Pitman’s Phonography,
containing instruction in both the cor-
responding and reporting styles, with lists
of phrases and exercises ; 231 pages.
Cloth, 3s 9d.
Key to the Instructor. Is Id.
zEsop’s Fables ;in the learner’s style. 7d.
Easy Readings ; in learner’s style, with Key.
7d.
A Manual of Phonography ; containing a
complete exposition of the system, with
numerous shorthand examples interspersed
with the text, and exercises in reading and
writing. Is7d.
“Teacher” and “Manual” in 1 vol., roan,
gilt edges. 3s 3d.
Key to Exercises in “ Manual of Phono-
graphy.” 7d.
The Phonographic Reader ; a course of
reading exercises in Phonography, with a
Key in ordinary type. 7d.
Questions on the “ Manual of Phonography.”
4d.
The Phonographic Reporter or Reporter’s
Companion ; an adaptation of Phonography
to Verbatim Reporting. 2s 2d ; cloth,
2s 9d.
Reporting Exercises ; intended as a com-
panion to the “Phonographic Reporter ;”
containing exercises on all the rules and
contracted words in this book. 7d.
Key to the “Reporting Exercises;” in
which all the exercises are presented in
Shorthand, in reporting style. Is Id.
The Phonographic Phrase Book, containing
above 2000 useful phrases in Phonography,
with key and exercise on all the phrases
(new pdition). Is Id.
Phonography : The Manual, Reporter, and
Phrase Book, in one volume. Cloth,
6s fid.
The Reporter’s Assistant ; a key to the
reading of the reporting style of phono-
graphy (new edition). Is Id.
Technical Reporting, containing phono-
graphic abbreviations for words and
phrases commonly met with in reporting
legal, scientific, and other technical sub-
jects, by T. A. Reed ;60 pages. Is 7d.
A Phonographic Dictionary of the English
Language, containing the shorthand forms
for 55,000 words, and 5000 proper names.
Sixth edition. Crown Bvo., handsome
cloth binding. 4s 4d.
Selections, No. 1 ; containing Character of
Washington, Speech of George Canning at
Plymouth, The Irish Church, Calvin,
Galileo and Shakespeare, &c., with printed
Key. 7d.
Selections, No. 2 ; containing Address of the
Earl of Derby on being installed Lord
Rector of the University of Edinburgh,
The Civilising Influence of Music, &c. 7d.
Selections, No. 3 ; containing Prof. Max
Muller on National Education, Sermon by
Rev. H. B. Browning, M.A., The Eastern
Question, &c. 7d.
The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, by Washing-
ton Irving ; with printed Key at the foot
of each page. 7d.
Leaves from the Note Book of Thomas Allen
Reed, with printed Key at the foot of each
page, in two volumes, fcp. Bvo. Vol. 1
contains a portrait of Mr. Reed. Each
volume is complete in itself. Each vol.
2s 6d.
Two Trips to India, by T. A. Reed. Is. Id.
The Bible in Phonography, large Bvo. (8J in.
by 5§ in.) Cloth, 10s. 9d.
Representative British Orations, with intro-
duction by Charles Kendall Adams.
Printed in an easy reporting style, with
key. Vol. 1., 329 pages, fcp. Bvo., con-
tains speeches by Sir J. Eliot, John Pyra,
Lord Chatham, Lord Mansfield, and
Edmund Burke; 3s. Vol. 11. contains
speeches by William Pitt, Charles James
Fox, and Lord Erskine ; 3s.
Pitman’s other publications may be had
■m application.
Phonography in the Office ; a complete
shorthand clerk’s guide. A book for
everyone who desires to make use of short*
hand in the office, by A. Kingston.
130 pp., fcp., Bvo. Is 7d.
The New Testament, in an easy reporting
style of phonography, 368 pages, with two
colored maps. Size of page in. by 4 in.
Roan, red edges, 4s. 2d.
The Shorthand Commercial Letter Writer ;
a guide to commercial correspondence in
the reporting style of phonography. 94 pp.,
fcp. Bvo. Is Id.
Key to the Shorthand Commercial Letter
Writer, containing all the letters of the
Shorthand Commercial Letter Writer in
ordinary type. 7d.
The Shorthand Commercial Letter Writer
and Key, in one vol. Cloth, 2s 3d
Office Work in Shorthand ; being specimens
of miscellaneous work commonly dictated
to shorthand clerks, in reporting style.
96 pages, Is Id.
Key to Office Work in Shorthand ; contain-
ing all the letters, &c., of Office Work in
Shorthand, in ordinary type. 7d.
Office Work in Shorthand and Key, in one
volume. 2s. 3d.
The Phonographic Railway Phrase Book ;
an adaptation of phonography to the ‘
requirements of railway business and cor-
respondence. 7d.
The Phonographic Legal Phrase Book ; an
adaptation of phonography to the require-
ments of legal business and correspond-
ence. 7d.
Shorthand Reading Books.
Extracts No. 1 ; containing the following
tales : —Ten Pounds, The First Offence,
and The Broken Chess Pawn. 7d.
Extracts No. 2 ; containing That Which
Money Cannot Buy, The Deaf Musician,
How to Prosper in Business, Woman: Her
Position and Power, and Kindness. 7d.
Extracts No. 3; containing Being and Seem-
ing, My Donkey, and A Parish Clerk’s
Tale. 7d.
The Book of Psalms. Is. Id.
The Narrative of the Pilgrim’s Progress.
Is. 7d.
Self-Culture. By Prof. Blackie. Is. Id.
Key to ditto, in common print, 2s. 9d.
Gulliver’s Voyage to Lilliput. By Dean
Swift. Is. Id.
Select Poetry. 7d.
Tales and Sketches. By Washington Irving;
with printed key at foot of each page.
Is. Id.
Gleanings from Popular Authors, with a key
at the foot of each page, 175 pages. Is. 7d.
The Vicar of Wakefield, illustrated, 280 pp.
2s. 3d.
WICKED WOMAN BOOKS.
A Superfluous Woman. Cloth, 4s. In
many points the best of the batch.
Our Manifold Nature, by Sarah Grand.
Cloth, 4s. Readable yarns, with the sex-
element prominent.
The Heavenly Twins, by Sarah Grand.
Cloth, 7s 6d. Over long ; but clever and
attractive.
Ideala, by Sarah Grand. Cloth, 4s. Sug-
gestive, and rather dull.
The Yellow Aster, by lota. Cloth, 6s 6d.
A smart and amusing book.
Dodo, by E. F. Benson. Cloth, 6s Od.
The very Newest Woman.
Keynotes, by George Eger ton. Clothj 4s 4d.
Subtly, shamelessly audacious.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
For the Term of His Natural Life, by Marcus
Clarke. Cloth, 2s 9d. The best Austra-
lian novel.
Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Paper, 2s 9d ; Cloth, 3s 9d. The second-
best Australian novel.
Poems, by Henry Clarence Kendall. Cloth,
Bs.
Poems, by Adam Lindsay Gordon. Paper,
2s 9d ; Cloth, 5s 3d ; Cloth gilt, Bs.
Poems, by J. Brunton Stephens. Cloth
gilt, Bs. Also, in new edition—paper, 3s
9d ; Cloth, 6s 6d.
A Golden Shanty, by Bulletin writers.
Paper, Is 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by Price
Warung. Paper, Is 3d.
The Last of Six, by Ernest Favenc. Paper,
Is 3d.
A Queenslander’s Travel-Notes, by A. G.
Stephens. Paper, Is 9d.
By Reef and Palm, by Louis Becke. Paper,
Is 9d.
Seven Little Australians, by Ethel Turner.
Cloth, 3s.
The Australians, by Francis Adams. Cloth,
3s. The best criticism of Australian char-
acter yet written.
The Art of Living in Australia, by Dr. P. E.
Muskett. Cloth, 4s. Practical health
hints, with 300 valuable cookery recipes.
Views of Melbourne. Views of Sydney.
Beauty Spots of Sydney. Beauty Spots of
N.S. Wales. Four small albums, 7in. by
fiin., with 12 to 24 pictures very nicely
printed from photos. Cloth, la 2d each.
Pictures of New South Wales, This book
contains in album form 100 large photo"
engravings of N.S.W. scenery, shipping,
and other matters of interest, and can be
warmly recommended as the best and
most comprehensive collection of the kind
yet offered. As a gift to far-away friends,
it cannot be surpassed. The binding and
finish are excellent. Posted to any Aus-
tralasian address for 5s 8d ; foreign 6s 2d.
Mrs. Bawson’s Australian Poultry Book.
Paper, Is 3d. This book was specially
written for Australian conditions by Mrs.
Lance Bawson, of Rockhampton, Q.
Index Map of New South Wales. 2s 6d.
Measures 3ft. by 2ft. Gin. ; folds to pocket
form. Showing roads, caves, tourist re-
sorts, etc. ; well up to date.
THE PERMANENT FORCE.
These are books deserving, in Bacon’s
phrase, “ to be read and digested”—books
which every thoftghtful man should own and
study.
Socialism, by Graham. Cloth, 5s 6d. The
best book on the subject.
The Study of Sociology, by Herbert Spencer.
Cloth, 5s 6d. The mind-essence of a
mental giant.
The Story of an African Farm, by Olive
Schreiner. Cloth, 4s. Unique in power
and fascination. A very nice edition.
The Criminal, by Havelock Ellis. Cloth, 4s.
. The best popular monograph.
Poems, by Walt Whitman. Cloth, Is 3d,
The poet of Democracy.
Fabian Essays in Socialism. Paper, Is 3d.
A Plea for Liberty. Paper, 2s 3d.
Cynicus, His Humor and Satire. Paper,
Is 3d. Clever and suggestive cartoons.
Conventional Lies of Our Civilisation, by
Max Nordau. Paper, 3s 6d. Strong
meat for men.
A Yankee at the Court of King Arthur, by
Mark Twain. Boards, 2s 6d.
WEIGHED, AND FOUND WORTHY.
Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes, by Conan
Doyle. Paper, 2s lOd.
Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, by Conan
Doyle. Paper, 2s lOd.
A Study in Scarlet, by Conan Doyle. Paper,
Is 3d.
The Sign of Four, by Conan Doyle. Paper,
2s 10d. First-class detective'stories.
The Woman in White, by Wilkie Collins.
Paper, 9d ; Cloth, Is. The author’s
best books, well printed.
The Cloister and the Hearth, by Charles
Ileade. Paper, 9d ; Cloth, Is.
Tess of the D’Urbervilles, by Thomas Hardy.
Paper, 2s lOd. A masterpiece of English
fiction.
Crime and Punishment, by Fedor Dostoieff-
sky. Paper, 3s. One of the most re-
markable of Russian realistic novels.
The Anarchist Peril, by Felix Dubois.
Cloth, 6s 6d. A startling exposure.
Lorna Doone, by R. D. Blackmore. Cloth,
3s. A charming English romance.
Looking Backward, by Edward Bellamy.
Paper, Is 3d. The bane or the antidote.
Pictures of the Socialistic Future, by Eugene
Richter. Paper, Is 3d. The antidote or
the bane.
Geoffry Hamlyn, by Henry Kingsley.
Paper, Is 3d. Cloth, 4s.
CONTEMPORARY SCIENCE
SERIES.
Up-to-date; interesting; in every way
admirable. Illustrated volumes, containing
between 300 and 400 pages, 4s each, unless
otherwise stated.
Evolution of Sex, by Prof. Geddes and
Thompson.
Electricity in Modern Life, by G. W. de
Tunzelmann.
The Origin of the Aryans, by Dr. Taylor.
Physiognomy and Expression, by P. Mante-
gazza.
Evolution and Disease, by J. B. Sutton.
The Village Community, by G. L. Gomme.
The Criminal, by Havelock Ellis.
Sanity and Insanity, by Dr. Mercier.
Hypnotism, by Dr. Albert Moll (Berlin).
Manual Training, by Dr. Woodward (St.
Louis).
Science of Fairy Tales, by E. S. Hartland.
Primitive Folk, by Elie Reclus.
Evolution of Marriage, by Letourneau.
Bacteria and their Products, by Dr. Wood-
head.
Education and Heredity, by J. M. Guyau.
The Man of Genius, by Prof. Pearson.
Property, by Ch. Letourneau.
Volcanoes, Past and Present, by Prof. Hull.
Public Health Problems, by Dr. J. F. Sykes.
Modern Meteorology, by Frank Waldo, Ph.D.
The Germ-Plasm, by Prof. Weismann, 6s 6d
The Industries of Animals, by F. Houssay.
Man and Woman, by Havelock Ellis, 6s 6d
The Evolution of Modern Capitalism, by
John A. Hobson.
Apparitions and Thought-Transference, by
Frank Podmore.
THE MINERVA LIBRARY.
The books are among the best and cheapest
published. They are all well printed ; many
of them illustrated ; and the cloth binding is
strong and serviceable. Posted for 2s 6d
each.
Charles Darwin’s Journal of the “ Beagle.”
Braham’s Ingoldsby Legends.
Burrow’s Bible in Spain.
Emerson’s Prose Works.
Gabon’s South Africa.
Manzoni’s Betrothed Lovers.
Goethe’s Faust. (Bayard Taylor.)
Wallace’s Travels on the Amazon and Rio
Negro.
Dean Stanley’s Life of Arnold.
Poe’s Tales of Adventure, &c.
Comedies by Moliere. Ingram’s Life of Poe.
Locker’s Lyra Elegantiarum.
Carlyle’s Sartor Resartus, Hero-Worship, &c.
Ben. Franklin’s Life and Letters.
Beckford’s “ Vathek ” and European Travels,
Macaulay’s Historical and Literary Essays.
Yonge’s Life of Wellington.
Carlyle’s French Revolution.
Wills' Land of the Lion and Sun.
Mrs. Gaskell’s Mary Barton.
Forster’s Life of Goldsmith.
Lane’s Modern Egyptians.
Torrens’ Life of Lord Melbourne.
Thackeray’s Vanity Fair.
Dr. Barth’s Travels in North and Central
Africa.
Victor Hugo’s Poems and Tragedies.
Darwin’s Coral Reefs, Volcanic Islands, and
South American Geology.
Lockhart’s Life of Burns.
Barth's Travels in Africa : Timbuktu and
the Niger.
Charlotte Bronte’s Shirley.
Hooker’s Himalayan Journals,
Bacon’s Famous Works.
Macaulay’s Biographical and Critical Essays,
and Poems.
Carlyle’s Cromwell’s Letters and Speeches.
C. Kingsley’s Alton Locke.
W. M. Thackeray’s Pendennis.
Borrow’s Lavengro : The Scholar —The Priest
—The Gipsy.
THE CANTERBURY POETS.
Charming pocket volumes, beautifully
printed and bound in cloth. Is. 3d. each.
Christian Year. Coleridge. Longfellow.
Campbell. Shelley. Wordsworth. Blake.
Whittier. Poe. Chatterton. Marlowe.
Burns (Songs). Burns (Poems).
Keats. Herbert. Hugo. Cowper. Hogg.
Shakespeare’s Poems, &c. Emerson.
Sonnets of this Century. Whitman.
Scott (Lady of the Lake, &c.).
Scott (Marmion, <fec.). Ramsay. Dobell.
Praed. Goldsmith. Love Letters, &c. S
Spenser. Children of the Poets. Jonson.
Byron (Miscellaneous). Byron (Don Juan).
The Sonnets of Europe, Pope. Heine.
Beaumont and Fletcher. Sea Music.
Bowles, Lamb, &c. Early English Poetry.
Herrick. Ballads and Rondeaus. Moore.
Irish Minstrelsy. Milton’s Paradise Lost.
Jacobite Ballads. Days of the Year.
Australian Ballads. Border Ballads.
Song-Tide. Odes of Horace. Ossian. A;
Fairy Music. Southey. Chaucer.
Golden Treasury. Poems of Wild Life.
Paradise Regained. Dora Greenwell.
Crabb. Faust. American Sonnets.
Landor’s Poems. Greek Anthology.
Hunt and Hood. Humorous Poems.
Lytton’s Plays. Great Odes. Love Lyrics.
Meredith’s Poems. Imitation of Christ.
Uncle Toby Birthday Book. Women Poets.
Painter-Poets. American Humorous Verse,
Minor Scotch Lyrics. Cavalier Lyrists.
German Ballads. Songs of Beranger.
Roden Noel’s Poems. Songs of Freedom.
Canadian Poems. Modern Scottish Poets.
MAX O’RELL’S BOOKS.
John Bull and His Island. Paper, Is 3d.
John Bull, Junior. Paper, Is 3d.
Jonathan and His Continent. Paper, 2s 10d
Friend Macdonald. Paper, Is 3d.
Jacques Bonhomme. Paper, Is 3d,
Drat the Boys ! Paper, Is 3d.
John Bull and Co. Cloth, 3s. lOd. Max s
new book about Australasia and South
Africa.


Medical.
J
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
“NERVOUS A SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, oh receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all’symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Yin6s will, on receipt of dEJL !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Vin6s with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is nob
effected.
Twenty three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Charge Nothing
for Consultation* ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Vin6s for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injuriousingredients.
Hours of Consultation t
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications /
Dr. JJECKEIDL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
k
'//
y
& i
rh
yy
/| I HTS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
4- cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. - Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
end price-list (post free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Early Decay!
4 X T men, young and old, suffering from
-oL Xj 1 1 Debility and Nervous Prostration,
caused through losses, lead a life of misery, the
reward of their ignorance and folly.
If you will have a CURE that is PERFECT as
well as CHEAP, and so SIMPLE that you can
DOCTOR YOURSELF, send your address, with
stamp for reply, and we ,will mail you (SEALED)
a description of an instrument worn at nights, a
NEVER FAILING REMEDY.
Foreign Novelty Agency,
Private. Pox 347, G.P-0., SYDNEY.
d
REUTER S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
GUARANTEED to core sick
headache and every disease
of the liver, stomach and
bowels. A safe cathartic. Do
not afterwards constipate-
The smallest and easiest to take. 40 ip a vial.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting dooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. C3-IBfeOKTS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
has made a life-long study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.’
And has discovered the quickest and surest means
of thoroughly curing them. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have
hitherto caused more misery and suffering than
any other kind of trouble that affects the human
frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from debility, should
consult him, for he is now enabled, quickly and
effectually, to remove the cause, and so prevent
life-long misery.
On Receipt of Bn. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter. You
can either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will write you a candid opinion. If, in writing,
you do not feel competent to fully describe your
case, send 6d. in stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will
send you, post free, the Latest Edition of his
Celebrated Work, in which you will find enclosed
a list of carefully-prepared questions that will
assist you in giving a true description of your
ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR, as in every case
undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS, a PERMANENT
CURE is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies. Patients are reminded that their letters
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
DR. GIBBONS,
137 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Wood’s
Scientific Eyesight Testing Rooms,
R
LONDON, LIVERPOOL and MANCHESTER.
Whether considered as a means to education or recrea-
tion, good eyesight gives us more satisfaction than all our
other senses put together; our eyes should therefore be
treated well. Thousands of persons who could not pre-
viously obtain Spectacles to correct their defects of vision,
have testified to the relief and comfort experienced when
fitted by WOOD’S standard tests.
299 George Street, SYDNEY
(Near Hunter Street);
311 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE
(Royal Arcade Corner),
SEND FOR CIRCULARS and PAMPHLETS.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. tW‘ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious.
KRUPP
'
jfj,')
7
Every person suffering from any Nervous Com-
plaint, from whatever cause arising, should procure
one of the above appliances; guaranteed to cure
completely and permanently the following com-
plaints :
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumharo, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Para'ysis, Kidney Cora-
plaint, Spinal Disease, Fevade Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation,
Def ective Memory.
**■ Send for Treatise, FREE, in which the Belts
are fully illustrated, the action of electro ily on the
Nervous System explained, and a lot of usefi.i 'n> ovation
on Nervous and Sexual Diseases given.
Address-The Krupp Galvanic Belt Co.,
1 Box 647. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Men I have Smiled with.”
STAY at
Brnto xx ’ si.
NHnainoo
"Cl O R TARIFF AND TABLE
■*" Dent's Exchange Hotel, Townsville,
Cannot be Licked.
Pointers
Your Cub is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
(Largest Seating Accomodation in Queensland.)
Next Gough's Excelsior Hotel.
‘ ‘OUR HOME."
E. Milverton.
DAY DAWN HOTEL,
Townsville.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lake Macquarie.
Terms: 7/- and 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week
First-class Accommodation.
Access Easy. Train Direct from Sydney or
the North.
H. A. Brett - Manager.
“drink no longer water
but use a little wine for thy stomach’s sake, and thine
often infirmities.”— (l. Timothy v. 23.)
—at—
LYON'S PALACE HOTEL,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
Between Victoria Bridge and Melbourne-street
Railway Station.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, See.
OLD WHITE HART HOTEL
(opp. the Parliament Houses),
MELBOURNE.
First-class Accommodation for Families and Visitors.
'—Terms Moderate-^
Telephone sz2.] p. w. BAINES, Proprietor
MELBOURNE.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL,
FRED. WELKINS, Proprietor,
Is the most comfortable and convenient Hotel for Families,
Commercial Genii' men and Tourists.
Splendid Accommodation. Moderats Tariff.
Tlie Waverley Hotel,
Collins Place. MELBOURNE,
Offers Visitors the highest degree of comfort at moderate
rates. Everything in best style.
A. L. HENNINGHAM, Proprietress.
it HE Hotel Wetropole, 377 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
-t Replete with every modern convenience. Splendid
cuisine. Suites for families. Restaurant a speciality.
Reasonable charges. Night porter. Most elegant balcony
in citv. Miss M. FLEMING, Proprietress.
IBSIF'Xj.A-lUr.A-IDIH] HOTEL,
ST. KILDA, MELBOURNE.
Most beautifully situated, opposite Pier and Baths.
Within 15 minutes of Melbourne by Cable tram or Railway.
Teems— £3 3s. per Week.
f-W Famous for excellent Cookery and Comfort.
S. JACOBY, Proprietor.
SALISBURY HOUSE,
Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE (opp. the Exhibition).
First-class accommodation. Suites, Single and Double
Rooms ; Balcony ; Billiards ; Smoking. Unsurpassed
appointmentsand position. MissH. CAPPER, Proprietress.
OSBORNE HOUSE, Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
Boarding Establishment.
Adjacent to Parliament House, Govt, offices, Theatres, &o.
Eighty Bedrooms, Night Porter, every comfort and con-
venience. Mrs. M. A. TODD, Proprietress.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
THE GLOBE HOTEL
(SWANSTON STREET),
Now undergoing complete refit, offers yon Special
Advantages, The Management is now in the
hands of the owner, J. T. CORRY.
/VLARE CASTLE HOTEL, Melb., H. O. Barrel)
Vy (lale F. Edgecombe),. Prop. Renovated throughout.
Combines comfort with cheapness. Only superior liquors
kept.
“Men I Have Smiled With.”
npHE QU KEN’S HOT Eli (BKACHV
TOWNSVILLE,
Leads, Competition Follows.
MARYBOROUGH.
Blue’s Me bourne Hotel is still to the fore, and
in the same hands.
MOUNT VICTORIA.
The MANOR HOUSE I*It!VATU HOTEL, still
under Mr. and Mrs. COOPER’S homely immurement,
affords superior noeommodation for Tourists and Families,
being nicely situated in its own grounds.
Perfect sanitary arrangements.
HW Cooper’s Coaches leave Daily for Jenolan Caves.
Terms:
(Per WEEK.. .. 35-
TPer DAY .. .. 8-
to 42/-
to 10/-
BALCONY ROOMS (per Week), 50/-
4
KATOOMBA
(Blue Mountains).
At BLAKEY’S SYDNEY
LIVERY STABLES you
(jet the best of all sorts of
Vehicles and Hacks.
tSf-Coaches to Jenolan Caves
DAILY.
“Drink and fear not.”— (Henry YL)
AND LIKEWISE STAY
—AT—
Goodridge’s “ROYAL,”
NGLAND VIA AMERICA
Australian & American Route
(A. & a. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON ... ... £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, JGS2 10s. and .£57 16s. td.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, rail way maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Branch Passenger Office,
Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
MOSS VALE.
Shipping,
by the
MESSAGERIES MA R(TIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Steamer Commander
AUSTRALIfeN DidleF
YILLE DE LAI
CIOTAT Piaschi .
POLYNESIEN L. Boulard
Dates of Departure.
Sydney [Melbourne j Adelaide
1 p.m
Noon.
Deo. 27Deo.
Jan. 27 Jan.
Feb. 26 March
1 p.m.
31 Jan. !
31 Feb.
1 March
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON: £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 to 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS, between Sydney,
Melbourne, and Adelaide are available for return by
Rail.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent
Medical.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light ami I rife,
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kmdred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address — ' »
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
M
•
* yNYARDS «°4*W
P. O. BOX 920. r Oy
Qualified Specialist In the Diseases of
MEN.
Nervous, chronic, skin,
and Special diseases of.
Treated with guaranteed success. Weak*
nesses removed and life made worth living
for. Fits, Bladder, and Kidney troubles
cured. Vigor, health, and manhood restored
WOMEN.
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle aged, and old ladies.
Irregf u l ar ‘*' e * 'rested with entire con«
fidence and success.
All Consultation*
Free, and Curable Cases guaranteed.
Vigor Pills for lost vitality, debility and
weaknesses. 55., or 21s. for 5 boxes.
| Female Pills for irregularities and obstruc-
| tionu. 10s. & 20b. per box. G uaranteed O. K.


Herr Rassmussen, 547 George Street, Sydney.
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST AND GOLD MEDALIST.
HOW TO CURE THE SERVES
ALFALINE VITALITY FILLS.
(REGISTERED).
Herr Rassmussen’s wonderful Herbal Remedies are recognised everywhere as the only real cure
for those terrible complaints known as n
Nervousness ana Debility,
resulting from Early Follies, Overwork, or Inherited Nervous Weakness manifesting itself in the
following symptoms :-Specks before the eyes, giddiness, want of vigor, fullness after meals, back-
ache headache blushing, want of ambition, exhaustion, poor memory, easily excited, irritable, tired
fn the morning, confused brain, weak nerves and spine Such sufferers should lose no time in call-
ing or sending for Herr Rassmussen’s celebrated Nerve Cure, namely, the
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
as thev will permanently cure the above symptoms. They have been the means of restoring thou-
sands to Health, Strength and Vigour. Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.;
Smaller Boxes, 12s. and 65.; posted unobserved. Varicocele Powders, 6s. per packet.
THOSE ABOUT TO MARRY,
who suffer from any of the above symptoms, should at once call on, or send to, Herr Rassmussen
for a course of his Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to enable them to commence their new life in a perfect
state of health. Posted Duty Free and Unobserved.
A Valuable and TTseful Pooh sent Free
and unobserved anywhere on application. This book gives a plain description of the working of the
various organs in the HUMAN BODY, and the principal diseases and affections they are subject to,
as well as the complete treatment for the cure and prevention of same, together with directions as to
the best diet and many other useful hints, which have saved many from much suffering.
how to“cuee_the blood.
ALFALINB LOCK PILLS.
(REGISTERED).
Blood and Shin Diseases.
It is recommended by the Faculty, and praised by those who have tried it, as a never-failing
Blood Purifier and Blood Tome.
It has no equal, it operates upon every drop of the blood, and does not permit the slightest particle
of impurity to remain in the system.
those about to marry,
I owerrux course, / , Posted Duty Free and Unobserved.
A Valuable and Useful Booh sent Free
Seating M. principal Gold Medal, and Diploma.,
awarded at exhibitions, and other matter of interest.
Testimonials.
SWORN TESTIMONY.
ďsf
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 547 George-street, Sydney, in the Colony of
New South Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome affection of the Nerves which
affected me so much that I was quite unable to at tend to my business. I tried several doctors
and manv remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr
Rassmussen’s Purely Heebal ‘‘Alpaline
Vitality Pills,” which I hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare Completely Cured Me with-
in a few weeks, and although this is over five
years ago X have remained well ever since.
The Alpaline Pills also cured my wife, and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this 23rd
day of November, 1891, before me.
S. T. Whiddon, J.P.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Corn-
missioner of the Supreme Court of New South
Wales and Victoria.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative
of the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose
testimony carries special weight, writes thus ;
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,-I think it my duty to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Vitality Pills
acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by
their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness
and Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform
you that a course of your Alfaline Pills com-
pletely cured me of a severe case of biliousness,
wind and nervousness. I may also mention
that several of my friends to whom I have
recommended your remedies have derived great
benefit from them; therefore, I consider you
are deserving of success, which I do most
heartily wish you. —Yours gratefully,
A. HARRIS, J.P.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having
been a sufferer from General Debility of the
Nervous System for over seven years, and
having tried without success several of the
leading doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne,
I was advised to try your Alfaline Remedies.
I am thankful I did so, for after a few courses
of the Alfaline Remedies I am now completely
cured, and I shall be most happy to_ recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I
was. Thanking you for your courtesy and
the uniform patience with which you have
treated me, allow me to say that you can
make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing yon every success, allow me to remain,
yours, CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness : John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker, Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
«4j ; us
°Ry
mm
tv
O
J 4 7
J 47
PILL ARCADE mi*
M
ET
SYDNEY
SYDNEY
HerrRASSMUSSENS I
1/h
PILL PALACE
gotp^
LO
VITALITY
PILLS
CUBE PIUS
bmk>d
. |(iu
THE
PIUS
NERVES
DISEAS
[Celebrated d ALFALI ME PILLSf
IV°" BLOOO&NERVE DISEASES!
ircnun
(K 5
mm :
V I
>■ • El I
FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
II • HERR RASSMUSSCN >
/ml SOLD H ERE IN BOTTLESat If 2/ 6 J/f A 22/*|
ALFA LINE
haul
RESTom
ttitjunn ifli
toning f |
ALFALINE
RHEUMATIC
FILLS
iwniMt
ALFALINE
toMnEJtioN
JEAVTIfIER
NTTIEIAtSA
ALFALINE
UVERIKIDNIY
PIUS
SOAOHtmtfl
SZt ” OT w JS7 L O
ASaTOKEN qfGRATiTUDEC|;Ip
'■l
iwn
m
JofeCEWfe 1
4%
w
£
«s
SV
rrrniurauuLU
—-tthtitti' i 11
.-f*
k •
i
Opinions of tue Press
FROM ALL THE COLONIES
Proving Herr Rassmus sen’s Remedies Genuine.
“Herr Rassmussen’s (the celebrated Danish Herbalist) well-known Herbal!
Remedies have been the means of performing many great cures during ths
last few years, as his numerous testimonials will prove. —The Bulletin,.
Sydney. Herr Raggmusgen is a cleV er botanist.’’-Launceston Daily Tele.
GBAPH, Tasmania.
Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as
a Medical Herbalist holds the highest place
in the colonies, and enjoys the confidence of
many leading people of New South Wales,
Victoria and Queensland.” Cooktown
Courier, Q.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high re-
putation for his skill in botanical treatment of
disease.”— Evening Journal, Adelaide.
‘‘Herr Rassmussen manufactures excel-
lent Blood and Nerve Remedies.” —New
Zealand Times, Wellington.
‘‘Herr Rassmussen has shown us some
highly complimentary testimonials, certifying
to important cures effected by his remedies.”
—Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is sufficiently well-known
to require any additional praise from Truth.
Hi? remedies are simply wonderful.”—Sydney
Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen’s Press notices agree as
to the skill he possesses as an herbalist, and
the hona fides of his testimonials appears to
be well established.”— S. A. Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, the well-known Danish
herbalist and botanist, has for the last
10 years carried on a very extensive herbal
medicine manufacturing business in all the
eastern colonies, principally bringing into use
many Australian medical plants.”— West
Australian, Perth.
“Herr Rassmussen is a gentleman who
has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name
has become known throughout New South
Wales and Australia.”— Australian Star,
Sydney.
Severe Nervousness Cured.
Stamp Office, G.P.0., Sydney,
To Herr Rassmussen. Sept. 1, 1892.
Dear Sir, —I am pleased to inform you that
your Alfaline Vitality Pills completely cured
me of a serious case of nervousness of 20 years’
standing.—Yours gratefully, H. STACK.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows "■
Ithago-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
To Herr Rassmussen. Sept. 20, 1892.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of ago,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.—Yours very truly,
ggp*' Herr Rassmussen has now established Branches in every colony and every country
throughout the world for the Sale of his wonderful Blood and Nerve Herbal Remedies.
LIST OP THE ALPALINE HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered).
Herr Rntumnuen'i "Natural Hector,” posted free. In plain cover. Is.
Alfalino Vitality Pills,
Cures *ll Nervous Affections.
Special Powerful Course, 48/6; Ordinary Course, 28/6.
Smaller Boxes, 12/- and. 6-
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c„ dec.
Alfaline Look Pills,
Cures all Blood Affections.
Special Powerful Course, 43/6 ; Ordinary Course, 28/6.
Smaller Boxes, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder.
Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills,
Special course, 43/6 ; ordinary eourse, 28/6.
Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-, and 3/-,
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills,
Boxes, posted, 1/6, 3/-, and 8/-.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills,
Boxes, 23/6, 12/-, 6/-, and 8/-.
Alfaline Universal Pills, For the Blood & Nerves.
Boxes, 43/6, 23/6,12/- and 6/-
AUaline Hair Restorer and Beauflfler,
Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautlfler,
Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder,
Improves the figure and enlarges the Bust.
Boxes, 6/-
IMPORTANT being purely a Proprietary
Remedy Business, nothing whatever is charged to anyone
but the advertised price for the Remedies, which is also
printed upon each box.
W A RN I N G.
Herr Rassmussen, the Original and Only Danish Herbalist
in Australia, has No Branch at Bendigo, Vic.,
and Victorian patrons are specially requested to notice
that Herr Rassmussen has no connection whatever with
any person trading under a similar name in Bendigo,
Vic., and that no person is authorised to sell his Genuine
Remedies at Bendigo. His only Victorian Branch is 150
Bourke-sL, Melbourne, and his Head Depot is 547 George-
st., Sydney. Patrons should always obtain the remedies
direct from his own establishments, as advertised below.
All HERR RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned below. Pamphlet sent free.
Correspondence held Strictly Confidential, and
Remedies and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover.
Any advice desired sent free. These Celebrated and Regis-
tered Herbal Remedies have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers,
jig- Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to
HANS RASSMUSSEN.
Whether you send to his Head Office or to his Branches,
register all letters containing money.
Intercolonial Branches:
Victoria; 150 Bourke-st, Melbourne
Queensland; 160 Queen-st., Brisbane
S. Australia: 154 Rundle-st-, Adelaide
H.Z.; 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.: Central Buildings, corner of
Hay & Williams Streets, Perth
INTERCOLONIAL LETTERS and ORDERS may, If patrons deal re It, be addressed td any of the above
branches to save delay. .
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONET.
jy ADDRESS TOUR LETTERS TO HURR RASSMUSSBN, o/o any of his Intercolonial Branches,
r. If you prefer it, to his
Head Office & Laboratory s
547 Greorge Street, Sydney
Or simply address your letters thus; —PROPRIETOR, Box 208, GENERAL POST OFFICE, SVDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONET.


REVIEW.
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
Dictionary.*
BY BRUCE SMITH.
The above is the title of the latest edition of the
labors of Noah Webster, whose name as a lexi-
cographer has become familiar wherever the
English language is spoken. Speaking generally,
it is indeed a most wonderful literary production,
ind offers a splendid illustration of that process of
growth which has had applied to it, in late years,
the term “evolution.” Originating in a modest
spelling book, published when Webster was a mere
student, the work has developed by different stages,
during the century or more which has since passed,
into a tome of over 2000 close pages of three
columns each; replete with every addition and
advantage which scholarship, literary skill, and a
keen appreciation of the requirements of modern
life can conceive. The spelling book was published
in 1783, when Webster was 25 years of age ; and
soon afterwards it was suggested to him that he
should compile a dictionary; but, being of opinion
that he was “ not qualified by research ” to enter
upon such a project, he did not follow the sugges-
tion, though the idea seems to have taken root in
his mind. In 1793, 10 years after the spelling
book had been got out of hand, he entered upon
the more ambitious undertaking which Dr. Johnson
has said to be the appropriate work of a “harmless
drudge ” —that of writing a dictionary. He
“ spent 10 years in a comparison of radical words,”
and in forming a synopsis of the principal words in
20 languages, arranged in classes under their
primary elements. In 1806, as the result of 10
years of silent but arduous work, Webster pub-
lished his “Compendious Dictionary,” the fore-
runner of the work which was completed in 1828,
and which he estimated to contain “ 70,000 or
80,000 words in all their various applications—
popular, scientific, and technical”; and he modestly
concluded his preface to that edition by expressing
the hope that, if the talent entrusted to his care
had not been put to the most profitable use, he
hoped it had not been kept laid up in a napkin.
Meanwhile, Webster was depending for the entire
support of his family on the proceeds of the spell-
ing book, of which it is estimated that 24 millions
of copies were sold down to the year 1847, the
demand at present being about one million copies
a year. The second edition of the dictionary was
published in 1841, Webster having meanwhile
visited Europe for the purpose of perfecting his
labours. He died in 1843, having completed a
supplement to his work, which was published just
before his death.
• • •
Revisions of the dictionary were published in
1847 and 1864, with regard to each of which
neither enterprise nor money seems to have been
spared to bring the work up to the most modern
ideas of completeness. The present edition pro-
fesses to be, and indeed is, a substantial advance
on its predecessors; so that the ponderous tome
which lies before us may be truly said to be the
evolved result of a century’s labor and research of
many minds, originating in a student’s modest
attempt at a school spelling book.
• * •
The competition among publishers of the pre-
lent day in the production of what are termed
“ books of reference ” is indeed keen ; and their
enterprise may almost be said to have belied the old
ma.vim that “ there is no royal road to learning.
A dictionary, in the more restricted sense, is
merely a book of words. Dr. Johnson, indeed,
said, in speaking of his own work, as a compiler
of one : “ I applied myself to the perusal of our
writers, and, noting whatever might be of use to
ascertain or illustrate any word or phrase, accumu-
lated, in time, the materials of a dictionary.” In
that sense, indeed, such a work would merely give
the origin, meaning, pronunciation, and spelling of
words of ordinary use, leaving what may 1"
called technical terms for works of a sped 1
character; and in many oases, such as those in
which the meaning involved a detailed explana-
tion, the encyclopaedia, which is of necessity a
bulky work, would have to bo resorted to. W e
fire, however, living in what is called an 44 ad-
vanced age,” in which everyone possesses a smat-
tering of scientific knowledge; and we are, too,
living in a rapid age—the age of steam and
electricity, and of the telephone—in which know-
ledge, when required, must be obtainable “im-
mediately.” Brevity, besides being the soul of
wit, is the watchword in every branch of know-
ledge in this present day—the portal of the 20th
century. Out of all these conditions and circum-
stances a certain class of wants is springing up.
These wants seem to have been understood by the
publishers of Webster’s Dictionary, and their
publication seems to be an enterprising attempt to
meet all requirements. The modern dictionary
must contain everything which the most exacting
can demand; and the matter must be complete
and advanced, as well as being as full as possible,
without entrenching unduly on the province of the
encyclopaedia. The comparison of the work under
review with the celebrated dictionary of Dr. John-
son well illustrates the change from the spirit of
social and industrial repose of the 18th century to
the hue and cry of 19th century competition, with
all its inevitable unrest. If, nowadays, in the
course of conversation some scientific term is used
in business hours, or some author or public char-
acter referred to in public life, or some literary
reference made over a dinner table, there must be
a ready and realistic method of obtaining the
knowledge which “the pace we live at” has
prevented us from previously acquiring. In
Johnson’s time, it was unobtainable, except by a
roundabout process, sometimes only by enquiry
from specialists. Nowadays it must be obtained
in a few seconds ; and for ready comprehension, if
the matter be of a technical nature, probably, an
illustration must be supplied.
• • •
We know of no book of reference that more com.
pletely complies with these modern requirements
It is in every sense of the phrase “up to date.”
Its impartiality, too, which is a matter of impor-
tance, is well testified to in the fact that a Homan
Catholic Archbishop in these colonies has said of
it : “ In case of words having a special reference
to the Roman Catholic religion, the narrow and
stupid bigotry displayed in other dictionaries finds
no place.” Turning to the volume itself, round
about which we have so long philosophised, we
are at once struck with its cleverness of mechan-
ical form. Life is too short to admit of all the
2000 pages being turned over in the ordinary way
to find the letter under which the needed reference
lies ! Niches are made for every letter of the
alphabet, so that, the thumb-nail being inserted,
the volume may be thrown open in the “twinkling
of an eye ” at the exact spot required; and each of
these niches is firmly bound in leather to prevent
wear. Apart, however, from this cynical ground
of utility, there is another not readily seen.
When one is Dent on some inquiry, it is confusing
to have simultaneously to occupy the mind in a
lengthy turning of leaves in the search ; and this
mental inconvenience is avoided by this method o
rapid reference. The mechanical method referred
to is sufficiently clever to have been patented in
that country where human ingenuity seems t Q
obtain the largest amount of protection from in-
dustrial pirating.
# • *
Turning to the body of the dictionary, in order
to give some general idea of its contents, we are at
once struck with the immense amount of informa-
tion which it affords, outside the primary purpose
of such a work, and yet of a character which
cannot for a moment be considered inappropriate.
The publishers have wisely reprinted, as a fitting
commencement of the work, the different prefaces
which have appeared with the several previous
editions. These have a literary and historic value,
serving to mark more clearly the different stages
of growth through which the work of lexicography
has passed. Hollowing upon this is a comprehen-
sive collection of all the arms and flags of various
nations, including not merely the greater nations,
but such comparatively unimportant ones as
Samoa. Some idea may be obtained of the
extent of the labor involved in the work by the
list of authors—about 2500 in number—whose
writings have been used as authority for or in
illustration of the forms and uses of words in-
cluded in the dictionary. These writers in some
cases date back into the thirteenth century, and
others come down to our own generation. Hollow-
ing on these is a brief history of the English
language, by a well-known professor, of Yale
College. In this history the influences of the
Celtic, the Latin, the Scandinavian, and the
Norman-Hrench languages are successively traced,
as also are the rapid changes in the English
language during the five centuries subsequent to
the Conquest. The difficulties, as well as the
importance of pronunciation are sufficiently recog-
nised in the fact that no less than 30 pages of the
work are devoted to a treatise on the subject.
Some consolation will be afforded to bad spellers
when they learn that no less than 1500 words in
the language, of which a list is given, may be
spelled in two oi three ways. Regarding the body
of the dictionary itself, too much cannot well be
said.
• # *
We note that so high an ar \rity as the Times
said of it that it was the “best and most useful
dictionary of the English language ever pub-
lished,” and the Quarterly Review, no mere
handier of undeserved compliments, has spoken of
it as “the best practical diction ry extant.” It is
difficult to say more than this, but it is not diffi
cult to justify such praise.
# * •
And here again we are drawn into a comparison
for the purpose of estimating the advance that
lexicography has made since Johnson s time.
When that writer compiled his famous dictionary,
he offered excuses for his imperfections, on the
ground that he “could neither visit caverns to
learn the miners’ language, nor take a voyage to
perfect his skill in the dialect of navigation, nor
visit the warehouses of merchants and shops of
artificers to gain the names of wares and tools and
operations of which no mention is found in books.
A reference to the work under review will satisfy
anyone that all these difficulties, which perplexed
Johnson, have been completely removed by
Webster and his succeeding editors. The preface
of this work says : “We find ourselves compelled
to yield to the necessity, which in these days
requires that the dictionary, which is ever at hand,
should carefully define the terms that record the
discoveries of science, the triumphs of navigation,
and the revelations of life.” Specialists have, it
is claimed, been enlisted in almost every branch
of human knowledge, e.g., astronomy, archi-
tecture, biology, botany, chemistry, law,
mathematics, medicine, engineering, mechanics,
mineralogy, music, nautical terms, geology, art,
zoology; and, as a consequence, the “miners
cavern ” has been visited, and all its terms have
been defined ; a voyage has been taken, and thg
“ dialect of navigation ” has been investigated
and explained in every detail. This constitutes
an immense stride from the one work to the other.
As an instance, the dictionary contains illustrations
of every conceivable kind of vessel or boat; and
under the head of “ ship,” not only every part of
the hull is defined and its use explained, but every
sail and every rope is carefully named, in such a
way that the necessity for “ taking a voyage ” is
entirely removed for the purpose of understanding
the meaning of technical terms connected with
seafaring matters. In the same way commercial
and industrial terms are made perfectly clear,
without the “visits to the warehouses,” which
Johnson deplored his inability to undertake. Wliile
Johnson confesses his inability to ascertain the
names of tools, &c., the editors of the dictionary
have evidently taken pains to supply them, as, for
instance, under the heading of “ file,” no less than
nine different illustrations are given to explain
the various kinds and uses of that tool.
m * *
To attain to such perfection much money must
have been spent and much trouble involved ; and
we can readily believe the publisher s statement
that “upon technical subjects eminent specialists
have been employed.” There appear, indeed, to
have been 100 paid editors engaged on the last
edition. So much as to the comprehensiveness of
the work. Where words have gradually acquired
a variety of meanings, as used in different senses
and by different writers, great care has been
taken to facilitate reference. As illustrations of
this care in detail, the verb “ fall,” picked at ran-
dom, is defined in nine different ways; and in each
case a quotation is given from some recognised
writer in which the word is so used. The adjective
“ clear,” also chosen at random, has 11 meanings
attached to it; and, again, in each of the 11 mean-
ings, a quotation is given from some well-known
writer. It would be an interesting inquiry to
ascertain how far the principle of recognising a
word as part of our language, when once it has
been used by a well-known writer, ought to be
carried. Carlyle and Meredith (the novelist) are
both included in the list from which quotations
are taken; but it would scarcely be considered
allowable to include in the dictionary some of the
erratic verbal creations of either the novelist or
the philosopher referred to. Carlyle frequently
indulges in the use of the words “ beautifuller ”
and “beautifullest” as the comparative and super-
lative of “ beautiful;” and Meredith is equally
fertile in verbal vagaries ; but, notwithstanding,
Webster’s Dictionary does not include either of
these words, and we certainly think the editor
has shown judgment in the omission. Although
great writers help to make the language,
some good judgment is necessary in accepting
all their verbal creations. Again, in cases
where a word of a technical character is used
in three or four scientific senses, the same careful
treatment in giving the different meanings at-
tached to the word is discoverable, as, for instance,
the word “ expansion,” which has attached to it
its common meaning, its meaning in mechanics,
its meaning in reference to mechanical engineer-
ing as well as in connection with naval architec-
ure; and with this word, as with others, an
appropriate quotation is given by a recognised
authority.
* # *
In relation to modem scientific terms the work
lacks nothing. As an illustration, we may men-
tion the word “ differentiate,” which in the Im-
perial Dictionary is to be found only in the
Appendix. In Webster it stands in the body of
the work, and is defined in three separate ways, as
used in logic, in biology, and in metaphysics. The
practice of introducing illustrations into the dic-
tionary is.apparently much extended ; and a novel
feature consists of indicating the natural size of the
object illustrated by figures which signify the pro-
portion the illustration bears to the object repre-
sented, as forinstance, “l-6th”or “l-10th,”indicat-
ing that the illustration is one-sixth or one-tenth of
the natural size. If space would permit, many in-
teresting facts might be recorded as to the value
of the main part of this great work. To this,
however, there is added an Appendix of upwards
of 300 pages, containing a variety of most useful
information, all, as we have said, being within the
limits of appropriateness, and being presented in a
form at once brief and sufficient for the purpose of
ready reference. First is a list of noted fictitious
persons and places, including pseudonyms and
surnames, as well as a large number of nicknames
which have been applied to eminent persons. The
principle of this division is to first give the name
itself of the fictitious character, then the name of
the book in which the character appears, and
finally a brief account of the most marked charao
teristie associated with the character. Many
characters in modern fiction are absent, as, for
instance, “John Halifax”; but, on the other
hand, the collection is most complete in characters
from what may be termed the modem classics
in fiction, such as Thackeray’s “Pendennis,
Dickens’s “Pecksniff,” and Bulwer Lytton’s
“ Claude Melnotte.” Remembering Napoleon’s
saying that “ nicknames should never be despised,
as it is by such means that mankind are governed,”
the nicknames applied to eminent men or well-
known groups of men should form an interesting
study. We might instance the instructive his-
torical term, “ Adullamites, ” which was originally
applied by John Bright to a small political party,
the circumstances of which application are given
opposite the name.
• * •
Following on this list comes a Gazetteer, contain-
ing 25,000 names of places of interest. By the use
of a few simple signs, which, for convenience, are
repeated on every page, the area and population
are given, as well as the pronunciation of the
name, and the main natural and artificial features
of each place which it designates. Beyond this is
a biographical branch, containing about 10,000
names of noteworthy persons, dead and living,
showing their nationality, station, occupation and
the date of their birth and death. Hundreds of
living persons are included, and the comprehen-
siveness of the list may be judged by the fact that
it includes the names of such “ lesser lights ” as
William Black, novelist, and M. Blouet (Max
O’Rell). After these comes a complete list of
Scripture proper names, with their proper pro-
nunciation, and a collection of Greek and Latin
names, in regard to which the authority of the
most eminent scholars of the day seems to have
been consulted. A pronouncing dictionary of
common English proper names, with their deriva-
tion, signification, diminutives and nicknames, as
also equivalents in other languages, and an ex-
haustive collection of quotations in Greek, Latin
and modern languages, such as frequently occur in
literature and conversation, are also included.
• * •
Even at the expense of lengthening this notice,
we cannot omit to refer to the fine series of pic-
torial illustrations, which fill nearly 100 pages,
and comprehend about 5000 different subjects,
with (in some eases) detailed information concern-
ing each. It would be impossible to give a fair
idea of this portion of the work, which contains a
most complete series of illustrations with reference
to the human body in relation to its anatomy, its
physiology, and its nervous system. Its plates on
architecture constitute a perfect object-lesson
education in the classic and modern styles. It
contains 1200 illustrations in botany, 300 in
geology, heraldry, mechanics, machinery, hydrau-
lics, and 300 in zoology. Perhaps the highest
practical tribute which could be paid to the value
of Webster’s work is the fact that (we quote from
the publishers’ notice) since the expiration of the
copyright of the above-mentioned earliest edition,
fac-simile reprints of the old editions have been
issued to the world, with all their since-discovered
errors and defects, under various titles, which are
calculated to deceive the many. We look forward
with pleasure to a further perusal of and frequent
reference to the work; and we can heartily wish
it all success, as the monumental result of a worthy
and laborious career.
♦ “Webster’s International Dictionary of the English
Language,” being the authentic edition of “Webster’s
Unabridged Dictionary,” comprising the issues of 1854,
1879, and 1884 ; now thoroughly revised and enlarged
under the supervision of Noah Porter, D.D., LL.D., of
Yale University, with a voluminous Appendix. Published
by G. and 0. Merriam Co., Springfield, Mass.; 40 Hunter-
street, Sydney ; 439 Little Collins-street, Melbourne,—Re-
printed from the Sydney Daily Telegraph, October 27,
1894.


NEW ZEALAND LOAN
AND
MERCANTILE AGENCY CO.,
LIMITED, *
SYDNEY.
ZKOOBPOBAIBIS IWT A.TT 10, 1884-
WOOL SEASON
pj
a
tk
•
WOOL AND PRODUCE
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
*894-5*
SYDNEY.
Dates of Wool Sales for Curve
October 31, 1894.
November 8,
19.
.. 27.
December 5,
» 13,
.. 20,
?an
LONDON.
Liberal Cash Advances made
against Shipments of Wool, for
sale by the Company in London,
v here they handled, during the
year 1593, 92,740 Bales.
dsf
A Positive Safeguard against Chills .
CELLULAR DRESS SHIRTS.
With Fronts and Cuffs of Pure BELFAST LINEN.
6a. 6d„ 7s. 6ti. f Bs. 6d, & lOa. 6d.
For ordinary everyday wear the Cellular Shirt will be found much
more comfortable than any of the older kinds of garment; but for the
BALL-ROOM or for crowded assemblies, it is, in the opinion of those
who have tried it, immeasurably superior. The DISADVANTAGES
OF PERSPIRATION, AND THE COLD SENSATIONS which so
often come on after dancing, or on leaving crowded rooms, when the
common shirt is worn, are so much reduced as scarcely to be noticeable
when the Cellular Shirt is used.
C E LLU LAR PYJ AM AS (perfect Hygienic Sleeping Garments).
13,6. 15/- A IJ/6
cellular merino singlets and pants
(Unshrinkable, Warm and Durable), J, 6, 8/6 A 9,6
CELLULAR FABRIC BY THE YARD.
When sending Orders by Post, mention Size of Neck, and Chest and Waist
Measurements, and include amount to prepay postage. Pamphlet, Price
Lists and all particulars
CELLULAR CLOTHING DEPOT,
305 & 307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dsf
Sterling,
Stainless
Hosiery
ABSOr/TTELY
FAST.
ELEGANT
DURABLE
AND CHEAP
TO BE HAD
OF ALL DRAPERS
•ly
zMm
<L"v «
Speciality lor tills Climate.
THE LAST OF SIX.
Price: One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Largest Tailoring Establishment
IN AUSTRALASIA,
COVERING 600 SQUARE YARDS OF GROUND FLOOR SPACE.
Established in 1870.
1212 DISTINCT and ALL NEVV PATTERNS. Please send for them. All Expenses Paid.
The Indelible Colours, Choice Designs, and Wear-resisting Qualities of these Goods stamp us the
Best Judges of Woollens.
Our 555. SUITS, to Order, have created quite a revolution in Tailoring.
Please READ, MARK, LEARN.
JOHN GRAHAM,
510 GEO KG E STREET (near Park-street), SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
ALL POLICIES ISSUED
Before the End of the Year will
Share in. the Bonus to r the Year
(All Bonuses vest immeliately on Policies attaining a duration of Two Years
THE AMOUNT OF CASH BONUS Distributed am.must Policy-holders for the
ONE YEAR (1893) WAS NEARLY HALF-A-MILLION STERLING,
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their appl.cations early, either direct or through'the
Society’s Agents, and certainly not later than 31st December, 1894, so as to secure a share of the profits as at that date.
Directors—The Hon. Sir J. P. Abbott, M.L.A., Chairman ;J. it. Hill, Esq., Deputy Chairman ;A. W. Meeks, Esq.
J.P. ; B. Short, Esq., J.P. ; J. T. Walker, Esq. ; R. J. King, Esq. ; and Joseph Abbott, Esq., M.L.A.
General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., E.F.A., E.S.S.
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street. Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary,
Public Companies.
—-THE
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident and Employers’ Liability Insurance at
Lowest Rates.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, 60 Market Street.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,600,000.
Total New Business since the commencement of
the Society exceeds
Twenty Millions Sterling (£30,000,000)
Being an average of a Million for each year of
existence.
T. JAQUES MARTIN,
General Manager,
Fire Fis/es at Lowest Fates ,
df
Hus OIFIOWJ
-95
Pitt Street,
Sydney. /
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITA^
£130,000
s>y
-
Directors:
JOHN SEE, Eaq
M.P.,
Ex-Colonial Treasurer.
{Chairman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.C.,
JAMES P, GARVAN, Esq.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
-' It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Fundi
Invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERB. Manager.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES.
d
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN ... Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
A COMPLETE SET, ONE GUINEA.
THE
LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE,
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TERTH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH.—A Complete Set, ONE GUINEA
The LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE, 98
KING STREET, SYDNEY.-Single Tooth,
26; precisely the same CELEBRATED
GOLD and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, pain-
lessly fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION,
as advertised at the highest cost by other
firms. FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY.
Country patients supplied in one visit.
PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY. The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages:
Absolute pairdess treatment, no unneces-
sary extractions, perfect and permanent
life-like appearance. Special soft palates
for tender gums.
SEND or CALL for our Great WORK on DEN-
TISTRY, post free on application to the
LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE, 98
KING-ST., two doors from Pitt-st., the
only address. Hou'e 9to 6.
Branches;
111 KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
142 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
167 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
“The Last of Six.”
Banking.
-THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities 101 dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager,
The Bank of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid up .. £200,000.
Fjsbrvb Liability .. 250,000.
Uead Office - Brisbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydnev Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
IfIHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND.
* (Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane,
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £300,000
RESERVE LIABILITY ~ .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND ... ~ .. 25,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
THAT TIRED FEELING BECOMES A MEMORY OF THE PAST
by investing in one of our Up-to-Date ROAD CARTS or BUGGIES. They are STYLISH, COMFORTABLE,
EASY RIDING, VERY DURABLE and EXTREMELY REASONABLE IN PRICE. They will give the
best of SATISFACTION, and pay a big per cent. ON THE INVESTMENT.
•==»
MOW i'OU I’KltEs.
OUR UP-TO-DATE
WALLABY SULKY „ Price, £7 T 0
KANGAROO „ ... Price, <£*B 0
VILLA „ ~ Price, £0 9 0
The illustration shows our WALLABY Cart—
the best and cheapest ever offered.
We have also several other styles o I ROAD CARTS, BUGGIES and WAGONS -in fact, everything thai
runs on wheels, and if you want FIRST-CLASS VEHICLES at reasonable prices, it will pay you to com-
municate with us.
JAMES MARTIN & C°“? Y - Clarence & Market Streets, SYDNEY.
A Truly Wonderful Phenomenon!
Not a Jupiter, Mars or Venus ! But a bright, particular star of our own ! Have you seen it
No? Well,
The London and Melbourne Tailoring Co.
31 ZEIRSIKIIIsriB STEEET, SYIIDESriH]^
HAVE IT IN THEIR POSSESSION.
feUITS TO MEASURE, 45a. TROUSERS TO MEASURE. I2a. Gd
New Patterns by last mail. Send for them and our Self-measurement Forms.
S. M. BAUM ASHE, Majnauek-


w
N S 0 Ms
JO
KI
NE
ms
Johnson’s Kidney Plaster.
SPECIALLY PREPARED AS A
Cure for all Diseases & Disorders
Usually indicated by Pains in the small of the Back and in the Side.
, (Shaped like a Saddle.)
Infinitely MORE EFFECTIVE
THAN ANY POROUS PLASTER.
Made In IXTew York & London.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST. Price, Is.
Plum*
fd
Plum
ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; fair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
■lSingle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents:
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS,
Direct Importers and. Manufacturers
OF
HATS & CAPS.
White Troppo Helmet (Rain and Sun Proof)
15/6
Gent. ’a Prince of Wales Black and Dark Brown,
10 6 and 12/6
i-Lllrr-V;
Qent.’s Straw (Single and Double Brim,
3 6 to 7/6
Ladies’ Sailor Hats (made to order,
any width brim).
Gent’s Terai, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6
(with Puggaree, 2/- extra).
Cooksey & Co., London, Gold Medal Silk Hat*.
Highest awards, Chicago, 1894.
Gent's Tourist Hats, 5/6, 7/6 and 10/6
ALL HATS POST
FREE.
*■£
■B
White Centra Helmet (Rain and Sun Proof), 13/6
Pocket Felt Hats, 5/6 to 10/6
Latest Fashion—7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6
332 George Street, SYDNEY; and Queen Street, BRISBANE.
ZXLMLA-S & ZLsTEW YEAB C-A-ZRLDS & BOOKLETS SZEALSOIUT, 1894-5.
BEG TO ANNOUNCE THAT THEY HAVE OPENED A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF
CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR CARDS
I
ET
All Latest Designs in BOX CARDS, IVORINE (hand-painted), FLORAL & LANDSCAPE DESIGNS, MECHANICAL CARDS,
Wilson & Pain’s Photographic Cards of Australian Views,
From. 9d. each; Bs. per dLozeh.
George Bohertson’s Packets of Christmas and New Year Cards ,
Containing Artistic Designs in Landscapes, Marine Views, Floral, Figures, etc., etc.
University Packet
50 CARDS, Is ; Post Free, Is 4d
The Special Packet
100 CARDS, Is ; Post Free, Is 4d
The Australia Packet
36 CARDS, 9d ; Post Free, Is
The Federal Packet
24 CARDS, 6d ; Post Free, 9d
The Waratah Packet
18 SPECIAL CARDS, 2s; Post Free, 2s 3d
The Holly Packet
12 SPECIAL CHOICE CARDS, Is 6d ; Post Free, Is 9d
Ttl e Wattle Packet .... .... .... .... 12 EXTRA CHOICE CARDS. 6b
CUSTOMERS WISHING SPECIAL SELECTIONS, PLEASE STATE NUMBER OF CARDS AND VALUE REQUIRED. t&T Special Reduction for Large Orders.
Photographic Albums, Screens, Ladies’ Bags, Purses, Writing Desks, Ink Stands, Photo Frames,
JEWEL CASES, CAME and BLOTTING CASES .
Great Variety of Books suitable for Presents.
f
GEORGE
ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 & 363 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


df
m
WE STUDY OUR OWN INTERESTS by
vv supplying the VERY BEST MATERIALS,
combined with PERFECT-FITTING
GARMENTS, at London prices. We
import our own Goods, and have a
variety of Tweeds, Coatings, etc., to
choose from, unequalled in the colonies.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS, please
write for Patterns and our Complete
Self-measurement System. Complete
satisfaction assured to all. Our
Address—
HAGOIM BROS.,
Merchant Tailors, 150 Pitt-street, and 107-9 Oxford-street.
THE BILLY TEA
Has no equal, and never has had at the price.
i Ask those who have used it what they think
6f it.
The “ Output ” is a ton per day, which is by
far the largest sale of packet tea in Australasia.
JAMES INGLIS
DEAN’S PLACE,
A. CO.,
SYDNEY,
Sole Proprietors.
aammaa
ESESZ23S2S
0-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell.the Set of 14, unused, for Is. tid.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
D. A. VIN DIN & CO. f
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Edinburgh
The Old Blend
Wfusl^
of the
WHI
t e Horse
Cellar
DIRECT «OM WSTIH.tR*..
always THE SAME. PURE. MCLLOB
NVATUUO BCOUH KAJJ
df
Wonderful Discovery I
HOSE’S
CKLKBEATSD
EYE LOTION.
rpHIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy might,
I Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, 3s. per bottle.
Manufactured Solelyby H. A. It OS I'.. Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
THE VERY BOOK FOR THE HOT WEATHER.
“the art of living in
AUSTRALIA.”
—BY—
PHILIP E. MUSKETT
(Containing also 300 delicious Australian Cookery Recipes
by Mrs. H. Wicken).
Sold hy all Booksellers. Post f ree, 4s.
Publishers:
EYRE & SPOTTISWOODE,
Her Majesty’s Printers,
LONDON, SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
PALING
No. 11.
XMAS ANNUAL!
No. 11
AND CO’.S
Price, ONE sill I,LI Post Free, 1,8.
.Full Music Size. Artistic Title Page.
Note.—Owing to the increased demand every year for
Paling & Co.’s popular Annuals, it is necessary to have
your orders booked at once for the First Edition.
Contents:
1. TWO LITTLE GIRLS IN BLUB. Waltz Song
and Chorus. Latest London rage. Sung by Miss
Maggie Moore and encored nightly.
2. TO ANTHEA. As sung by Mr. Santley.
3. I’M THE FATHER OF A LITTLE BLACK
COON. Popular Minstrel Song. Sung by Irving
Savles at the Tivoli.
4. NEVER NOD YOUR HEAD. MAGGIE. Pretty
little humorous song.
5. NAPOLI MAZURKA (G. Lardelli). Written speci-
ally for Paling & Co.’s Annual.
C. SIMON THE CELLARER. A great favorite.
Sung by Mr. Hallewell.
7. COWS ARB IN THE CORN. Madame Belle
Cole’s success,
a GLEDSWOOD SCHOTT43SHE. By composer of
the South Bsk Waltz.
9. SHE WORE A WREATH OF ROSES. The
Standard English Ballad.
10. THIS IS LOVE (G. LardalliJ. Pretty Waltz Song.
(•By csmposer of the fasoinating Amiette Gavotte.)
11. THE DAINTY HIGH-KICKER. A splendid
new coiiiic. Now published for the ftrat time. Sung
in the Xmas pantomimes.
12. BELLA NOTTS WALTZ (H. Nathan). By com-
poser of the favorite Langreeth Waltz.)
18. OUR SAILING SONG. Rattling good sonc, with
chorus. Expressly dedicated to the sailing clubs of
Port Jackson.
14. FISHERMAN AND HIS CHILD. Sung by Miss
fheridan Reed. ,i.
VER AGAIN ON EARTH. Dedicated by kind
permission to and sung by Madame Belle Cole.
16. THE DANUBE RIVER. Vocal Duet.
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD. [Estab. 1863 g,
888 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Newcastle, Brisbane and Toowoomba, Queensland.
THOSE LIVING PICTURES.
“ A godless show ? ” Not so ; we scan
Each rapt, attentive, bearded face,
And know that every Melbourne man
Is touched by power of goddess’ grace.
A Sydney matrimonial agency advertises
that it “ solemnises marriages free of charge in
urgent oases.” As only “urgent” marriages
eventuate in these hard times, how does the con-
cern get its living ?
SADDLERY, HARNESS, & VEHICLES at MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES
m
m
! . <5 ?
9mZ&i
'* ■
CvhtSV
No. 1. —Our SPECIAL STATION SADDLE,
as per above illustration, thoroughly comfortable
and substantia], on extra heavy Steel Gullet Tree,
Plated Bar, Bag Leather Seat, Knee and Thigh
Pads, with good quality fittings to match com-
plete. Price, 525. 6d.
No. %—SADDLE same as above, but with
Hogskin Seat, extra well finished, with fittings to
match complete. Price, 575. 6d.
No. 3. —SADDLE as illustrated above, but
with extra high Knee Pads, suitable for breaking-
in work, Strengthened in every detail, and with
extra Strong Fittings complete. Price, 6125. 6d.
SPECIALLY SELECTED BARCOO
BRIDLES, one inch, with bit, ss. 9d.
GENT'S 1-inch SNAFFLE BRIDLE, Best
Quality, Stained Leather, whole Nickel Buckles
and Nickel-plated Bit; Lined Head and Inlaid
Forehead Band, 7s. 6d.
The above is an illustration of onr LADY’S
SIDE-SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Hogskin Safe,
worked as shown above, Silk Stitching. Price,
with fittings, 90s. As much as 10s. is charged
by retailers for this line.
LADY’S SIDE-SADDLE, without Stitched
Safe, Hogskin Seat, 3 Horns. Price, with fittings,
70s. Nothing equal to this line obtainable else-
where under 955.
LADY’S SIDE-SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, and
extra quality Solid Safe—a large, square, hand-
some Saddle, fit for any lady’s use. The usual
Sydney catalogued price is <£7. We sell complete,
with first-class fittings, for A 4. _
LADY’S HANDSOME DOUBLE-REINED
BRIDLE, with Fancy Mounts and Good Bit
complete, for 15s. SADDLE CLOTHS, from
4s. 6d. each.
NOTE.
We supply a BUGGY, which will give satisfaction, complete with Shafts and Hood,
packed* in case, for AIT lOs.; and a splendid set of Silver-Mounted BUGGY HAR-
NESS, made to order, for A 4 10s. Mention where you saw this quotation when you
order this Handsome Turn-out.
ASKEW A COMPANY, MANUFACTURERS’ AGENTS,
213 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Christmas & New Year
HOLIDAYS, 1894-1895.
/■s
o
Holiday Excursion Tickets
Will be issued from all stations to all stations (except for distances not exceeding 15 miles, between
stations on the Sydney and Newcastle Suburban Sections) commencing with the Day Trains leaving
terminal stations on FRIDAY, 14th DECEMBER, 1894, and thereafter by all trams until
TUESDAY, Ist JANUARY, 1895, both days inclusive, available for return until THURSDAY, 31st
JANUARY, 1895. _
The ordinary return tickets issued locally for distances not exceeding 15 miles, between stations
on the Sydney Suburban and Newcastle Suburban Sections on 25th, 26th IXECEMBER, 1894, an(/
Ist JANUARY, 1895, will be available for return until day following date of issue.
INTERCOLONIAL TICKETS
Will be issued from Wednesday, 19th December, to Monday, 31st December, 1894,
inclusive, available for Return for six months, with the exception-of the Adelaide and
Broken Hill tickets, which will he available for two months only. The issues from Brisbane will com-
mence on 14th December. The journey may be broken for one month going, and during the currency
of the ticket on the return.
-. From Melbourne to Brisbane and vice versa :
First class return -£10 0 0 | Second class return .,
Holders may travel by express.
From Sydney to Brisbane and vice versa :—
First class return £5 0 0 | Second class return .
From Newcastle to Brisbane and vice versa :—
First class return £4 12 6 1 Second class return .
From Sydney to Melbourne and vice versa :—
First class return .£5 6 6 \ Second class return .
£G 17 6
£3 0 0
£2 15 O'
£4 10
These tickets will not be available by express. Passengers wishing to travel by express to pay ttie
difference between the ordinary and holiday excursion rates—viz., 15s. first class, 10s. second class
From Sydney to Adelaide and vice versa
First class return £7 6 31 Second class return £4 19 0
Holders may travel by express.
From Sydney to Broken Hill and vice versa ! —
First class return 3 | Second class return £6 15 3
Available by express.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS at 2d. per mile First Class (minimum, 55.) and Id. per
mile Second Class return (minimum, 2s. 6d.) will be issued at Sydney and Suburban Stations to the
country by trains leaving Sydney as follows
South Coast Line ,
24th DECEMBER, 5.30 and 11.30 p.m., for Nowra.
25th and 26th DECEMBER and Ist JANUARY, 7.38 a.m„ for Nowra.
31st DECEMBER. 5.30 and 7.30 p.m., for Nowra.
Southern Line,
24th and 31st DECEMBER, 5.15 p.m., to Mittagong, Bowral, Burradoo and Moss Vale only.
24th DECEMBER, 9 p.m., to stations on Cooma Line only, and 11.20 p.m. for Goulburn.
26th DECEMBER and Ist JANUARY, 8.20 a.m„ for Goulburn.
Western Line 9
22nd DECEMBER, 5.36 p.m. for Mt. Victoria.
24th and 31st DECEMBER, 5.10 and 5.35 p.m. for Mt. Victoria. . .
24th DECEMBER, 8 a.m. for Wallerawang; 6.45 p.m to stations west of Mt. Victoria as far
Orange; 8 p.m. (ordinary mail) to stations on Mudgee Line only ; 11.25 p.m. for Bathur •
25th, 26th DECEMBER and Ist JANUARY, 8 a.m. for Eskbank.
Northern Line,
24th DECEMBER, 4.53 p.m. for Newcastle (4.55 p.m. from Milson’s Point), 11.35 p.m. for
Newcastle and Maitland (11.30 p.m. from Milson’s Point). , „ .
26th DECEMBER and Ist JANUARY, 8.15 a.m. for Newcastle (7.40 a.m.
Available for return by any train (Melbourne Express excepted) up to 7th JANUARY mclu
The usual CHEAP TICKETS issued from Sydney and Suburban Stations dn FRIDAYS and
SATURDAYS 22nd. 28.1, «nd 29. h DECEMBER „UI ~!» for f «
by Special and Ordinary Trains (Melbourne Express excepted) up to 7th JANUARY, 18J.», mclu
SIMILAR TICKETS TO SYDNEY ONLY be will issued by train Iwrfhdng
NOWRA at 4.35 a.m. on 25th, 26th December, and Ist January. ~
GOULBURN at 4.15 a.m. on 24th December, and 5.10 a.m. on 26th December and Ist January.
ORANGE at 10.45 p.m., MUDGEE at 6.50 p.m. (from Mudgee line only) on 24th December.
ORANGE at 2.30 a.m. on 26th December and Ist January.
SINGLETON at 10.5 p.m. on 24th and 31st December.
NEWCASTLE at 12.40 a.m. on 25th Decern' er and Ist January. , , T
WEST MAITLAND at 5 a. in., and NEWCASTLE at 6 a.m. on 26th December and Ist January.
Further particulars can be obtained from all Stationmasters and at the Central Booking Gffi' r '
George street, Sydney. fiy ORDEH( C F THE COMMISSIONERS.
December. 1894. McLACHLAN, Secretary.
My Horse .
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I OWN a tall, domesticated horse of the semi-angu-
lar type of beauty. He has an open countenance,
a hollow back, and an expressive hazel eye. ' A
former owner of the horse removed the other eye.
This person was vexed and mortified because he
could not catch the horse, and in the heat of the
debate assaulted the animal with a 'gun. The
horse has been sceptical about the trustworthiness
of human nature ever since. I have owned him
for a long time now, but I have not yet won his
entire confidence. His name is Parkes.
He associates with a number of illiterate quad-
rupeds that roam the bush here, and they all
regard Parkes as their chieftain. When any
member of the mob finds a patch of couch-grass,
Parkes depresses his ears and sidles alongside with
a sour look. If the animal knows Parkes he goes
away. But if he stays there, Parkes bites his neck
and kicks him until he does adjourn. Then my
horse eats the grass in a thoughtful way, and after-
wards gets another horse to reverse ends with him,
and wmsk the flies off with his tail. But Parkes
does not whisk for the other horse. He is too
languid.
Many people think it is easy to catch Parkes,
but they are wrong. They are deceived by the
statuesque attitude he assumes when another horse
is being caught. But when you approach Parkes
with a bridle, he smiles satirically and goes away
quite rapidly. That is, if you have only a bridle.
But if you have a tin dish of com, he takes the
com with him. He gets it by degrees from your
hand, and when you grab for his front hair he
ducks and cross-counters with his front paws. He
is very quick with his left.
Last winter I made a mg for Parkes with two
flour bags and a clothes-line. He was pleased
with the effect and at once struck up an intimacy
with a neighbour’s cow, although before that he
was a very bashful horse in female society.
The neighbour’s cow’s name is Mike. Her
owner was facetious and named her Mike Howe.
But (he is dead now) I am told he was otherwise a
most estimable man, and a model husband and
father.
Mike and my horse became very affectionate,
and my horse got quite vain and haughty, because
of the distinguished look the mg gave him. But
one day, when he was trying to help Mike’s calf
into a lucerne paddock, the rug became dis-
arranged. The ropes straddled his back, and the
main body of the mg clung confidingly to his
abdomen. When he next called on Mike, she
received my horse coldly. He was hurt at this,
and came home to me to have his garb refitted ;
but I took it off and made it into a meat-safe.
Mike never afterwards associated with my horse.
She even pretended that she did not recognise
him, and dropped his acquaintance altogether.
Her cruelty broke my horse’s heart, and ne has
never since recovered his old gaiety of spirit. He
pushed Mike’s calf down a shaft last week; but
he is still gloomy and abstracted.
I think his disposition is permanently soured.
A. CHEE.
Marriage is the end of Woman ; but the
end of a man.
Stead’s Christmas number: “ Our Splen-
did Paupers : a story of our Old Nobility.”
All the rage in Paris. Latest Parisian
preventative posted in sealed letter, 1/2' stamps.
National Drug Co., Russell-st.,Melbourne.
When Parkes was at Broken Hill, four
years ago, he “ laid ” the foundation-stone of a
trades hall. Next day, before the old man had
gone, somebody capsized the stone and stole the
buried coins. Just now men earning 3s. a day
maximum at cracking stones, dumped cm the
trades hall site, use the stone as a “spell-of ” seat.
The treatment of Piles by the new Cannalin
remedies is necessitating the dispatch of large
quantities to all parts of the colonies. Applica-
tions must be made direct to the depot at 257
George-street, Sydney, N.S.W., where a copy
of Mr. Sharp’s popular work on “ Piles ” can be
obtained free.
“ Convict Jim and Other Poems,” by Will
Crompton (Maryborough, Q.), is a collection of
fluent doggerel—chiefly imitations of Gordon,
Bret Harte, “Dagonet,” and others. Occasion-
ally, as in “The Toast of a Darkened Soul,” the
imitation goes as far as absolute plagiarism. The
writer complains that friends tempted him to pub-
lish against his better judgment. He should have
rested his defence on the fact that he is an aider-
man ; an alderman is capable of anything.
Xmas Orders. —Hordern Brothers, 203
to 211 Pitt-street, beg to remind their numerous
country patrons of the fact that the present rush
of orders, arriving by every mail, necessitates the
attention to their Xmas orders early. To save
disappointment, please forward your Xmas re-
quirements orders immediately, and no matter
what your pleasures are, if it is possible to execute
them, we shall do so with promptitude and
dispatch. Special Value in Xmas Goods at
Hordern Brothers, 203-11 Pitt-street (only), Syd-
ney. Don’t forget our special Xmas suits, 355.
and 455., to measure.
The London School Board elections, held
amid intense excitement, have resulted in a big
victory for the Progressive party (secular-educa-
tionists) as opposed to the “Moderates” (religious-
educationists). On the old board the Moderates
held 34 seats, and the Progressives 19. The
numbers are now: Moderates, 29; Progressives,
26. Free thinkers all the world over (not the
sect, but the men) have cause for congratulation.
It is notable that the smaller parties—R.O.’s,
labour, and Socialist—couldn’t get one candidate
in.
How often do we not wish during our hot
summer days to have something to refresh us
with ; and how near it is to hand. Just give the
sanitary toilet requisite “Amykos” a trial, and
you will .never be without same, as a refreshing,
cooling and wholesome compound to pour into
the washing-basin ; or, used as a mouth-wash and
garg e, you will always keep your mouth in a
healthy, clean and purified condition. To
be had from all chemists and perfumers at la. 63.
per bottle. Wholesale representative for Austra-
lasia, C. A. Palsiedt, Sydney.*
The Apex keyless watch, made at the
Beawcourt factory in France, has entered the
Australian market in earnest, and is advertised at
post free to any address in Australasia-- -vide
inside back cover of this week’s Bulletin. It is a
stem short-winder, has works equal to those of the
best J6B silver or .£2O gold watch, is sot in an un-
tarniahable case, will stand the roughest usage,
and is altogether the cheapest, most reliable and
best popular watch ever made. The Beaucourt
Watch Co., Box, No. 686, General Post-office,
Sydney, will be glad to receive and publish testi-
monials from Australian buyers.


TATTERSALL’S
SUMMER 0.-
CARRINGTON
-December 29. 25,000 at 10.
S.-January 1. 25,000 at 5.
“ TATTKIISALI,”
Care of Gborgb Adams,
“The
1 QUEEN STREET,
L Ktisbuue, Uiicenslaiul
NIMROD’S
SUMMER CUP.—Charters Towers, December 26.
SUMMER CUP.—Charters Towers, December 26.
SUMMER CUP.—Sydney, December 29.
5000 at 2 6.
5000 at 1 0.
5000 at 1 0.
“Uimr nd,*’
Care of T. Enright,
TATTER SALE’S HOTEL,
Flinders
TOWNSVILLE.
Educational*
New Edition
The METHOD of METHODS.
Sydney Smith,— Method for the
Pianoforte, adopted by all the
Principal Educational Establish-
ments in Great Britain, Ireland,
Australia, &c. 72 pages. Full
Music Size. This new Edition
contains Duets for the master and
pupil, and Photograph of the author.
Price - - Five Shillings.
May be had of all Music Sellers , or Pest Free
at half the above price from the Publishers
EDWIN ASHDOWN,
(Limited),
NEW YORK. LONDON, TORONTO.
Amusements.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS i LAST TWO NIGHTS I
The New and Original Whimsical Absurdity,
“ SiS<M■”
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Office at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Kignold.
EVERY EVENING 1 EVERT EVENING 1
The Thrilling Romantic Drama,
* Ransom..’ ‘ Ransom.’
Miss DORA MOSTYN as “Tom Chivey.”
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
■JIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager ... Maggie Moore.
Acting Manager .. .. J. E. Moore.
EVERY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING 1
<Miss M a gg ie Maoris
DRAMATIC SEASON JKT DRAMATIC
mo SHOOTERS.— Cofhpl'ete set of Reloading and Olean-
JL j ns TOOLS, 12 gauge, central fire, containing de-
capper, re-capper, turnover, loader, extractor, powder and
shot measure, cleaning-rod, wire brush, Jag, oiler, &0.,
free by post to any part of Australia for 10s. 6d. stamps or
P.O.d. A. J. POTTER, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Read this:— Croydon, 23/1/94. Dear Sir,-—1 received
the set of tools some time since. I have reloaded bun-
dreds of cartridges and found the tools work splendid,
and could not wish for better. In fact, lam quite sur-
prised with them for the price. You welcome to use
this if you wish.—Faithfully yours, SAMUEL STONE,
Croydon, Queensland.
YOUNG MAN, thoroughly alive, good horse-
man and active, desires employment any
kind ; town or country. Is descriptive journalist.
Go anywhere. G. H., Bulletin.
RENOWNED PHYSICIANS, and even the
Public are s© familiar with the merits of
GRHMAULT & CO.’S
ivr O
that the afflicted need not hesitate to use it,
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young men,
Grimault’s Matico does not cause stricture
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Agents: Blliott Bros., and Australian Drug Co.
£l4O
GIVEN AWAY IN XOO PRIZES]
WHO CAN SOLVE THE MAGIC SQUARE ?
Directions.— Be-arrange the figures in Square, stfill keeping
5 in the centre in order that each row from top to bottom, from left to right ami
from corner to corner will add to Fifteen. The December
awarded amongst those who send correct answers on or before 28 th December, /JV
5 American Gold Hunting Case Lever Watches, value £lO each,
10 Sterling* Silver Lever Watches, value £3 each;
15 Nickle Silver Keyless Watches, value 30s. each j
20 Ladies’ Gold Bar Brooches, value 20s. each ;
nn Ladies’ Sterling Silver Brooches, value 10s. each. , _
Write your answer clearly and forward to us, enclosing Fifteen Penny Stamps for a ox o
ANTmmoVs Piles the best Liver. Kidney and Bowel Regulator ever used; or you may order a Box
of j w st,r P-mo-h Pills Star Neuralgic Pills, or Star Rheumatic Pills. These valuable presents^re
addresses of winners will be posted-to all Competitors. National Drug Co, Hassell St.. Melhoujm
df
UL AK MUSIC
BOOKS
W. H. GLEN & CO.’S
(Nos. 1 TO 36.)
Price, ONE SHILLING EACH.
’ mrTTi T>T7lom aXTTTTTXrn TiIVRR. V
THE BEST SHILLING ALBUMS EVER PUBLISHED.
Postage, 2d. extra.
Just Published: TWO CHRISTMAS NUMBERS!
3STo.
33.
3XTo.
33.
Contains POPULAR SONGS and CHORUSES for MERRY EVENINGS.
List of Contents :
1. Portrait, J. L. TOOLE, the World’s Famous
Comedian.
2. Love was Onee a Little Boy ... Wade
3. Land of Dreams. The ... ... Lover
4. Annie Lisle (song and chorus) ... Thompson
5. King of the Beggars Glover
6. Gone are the Days ... .
7. Kate O’Shane ... Linley
8. Lessons Learnt at Mother’s Knee. The
9. I’ll Hang my Harp on a Willow Tree. Guernsey
10. Gae bring to Me a Pint o’ Wine
11. My Boy Tainmie
12. Cows are in the Corn. The ...
13. Save my Mother’s Picture from the Sale. Walsh
14. Prettiest Girl I Know (song and chorus)
f. Hays
15. Good Old Jeff
16. Monks of Old Glover
17. When Mother putthe Little Ones to Bed
Wheeler
18. Molly Mavoureen Skelly
19. My own Sweet Nelly Bawn ... Winter
20. There’s no one like Mother to Me
21. Come Home, Father ..; ... Work
22. Mary Aileen
23. My Southern Sunny Home ... Hays
24. Molly Darling’s Reply Hays
25. Willie, We have Missed You ... Foster
Recitations and Humorous Readings.
The Bells, by Edgar Allan Poe
The Little Vulgar Boy
POSTED ANYWHERE FOB 14 PENNY STAMPS.
3STo.
34.
3NTo.
34.
Contains POPULAR BALL PROGRAMME and FAVORITE SONGS.
List of Contents;
1. Portrait of KATE VAUGHAN, the accom-
plished English Actress and Dancer.
2. Waltz, Kathleen Warner
3. Polka, Sans Souci Krauss
4. Quadrilles, Caledonians
5. Waltz, After the Ball ... ... Krauss
6. Schottisohe, Queen Mary Stephano
7. Lancers, Old Favorites ... ... Stephano
8. Barn Dance, Rustique ... Krauss
9. Mazurka, Princess ... ... Kuauss
10. Serpentine Dance, Rainbow ... Krauss
11. Waltz, Two Little Girls in Blue ... Krauss
12. Reel, Earl of Hopetoun
13. Reel, Speed the Plough
14. Reel, The Soldier’s Joy
15. Reel, Perth Hunt
Stephano
Wrighton
Knight
Glover
16. Country Dance, Hokey-Pokey
17. Country Dance, Haste to the Wedding
18. Country Dance, Sonal Mackinlay
19. GalopfGo Ahead ... ...
20. Song, Have you Seen the New
Cottage?
21 Song, She Wore a Wreath of Koses
22’. Vocal Duet, The Flower Gatherers
23. Song, Will You Love MeThenasNojv? Glover
24 Song, Those Evening Bells ... Beethoven
26. Song, Ah, Never Deem my Love
Can Change Thomas
Recitations and Humorous Readings.
Nellie and Jack, or Two Little Waifs
Domestic Asides, or Truth m Parentheses, by
Thomas Hood.
POSTED ANYWHERE FOE 14 PENNY STAMPS.
IN THE PRESS, READY 20th DECEMBER, THE XMAS NUMBER OF _ Bi — --
GLEN’S “ COLONIAL MUSICAL CABINET,”
Containing the finest collection of New and Popular Songs ever issued. PRICE, ONE SHILLING. Orders now being received,
W. H. GLEN & CO., Piano & Music Warehouse, 272 & 274 Collms-st., MELBOIRIN
ITU,
Wholesale Manufacturing- Stationer and Printer
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-4s. ALSO AT«-
NEWCASTLE AND LONDON.
Catalogues, Samples, and Estimates
Forwarded on Application.
Table Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
THE QUEEN.
SCHWEPPE’S
Soda, Seltzer,
&C., &<?.,
In Bottles, Splits & Syphons
Sold by the Principal Wine Merchants, Hotel Keepers and Chemists throughout the Colonies.
TOXA
Rabbit Poison
Why erect expensive Fencing A *MI ** “““ “ “““"
HORSES. ' CATTLE <3. SHEEP WEL NOT TOUCH IT.
550 Rabbits killed with centents of 21b. Tin within radius ©f 100 yards.
NATIONAL WOOL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA L>«' TED .
nnilWlini. RChLSonruei Sole
SYDNEY AGENTS-Messrs. E. RICH & CO. Ltd. and JULES RENARD & CO.
TOXA
Babbit Poison


••## '-v 1 # ■- rv
■| ii|! | ' : : l ;ill jl l |i i ':_ 1 1 ,;[:•! |; ,| |j| !! j 1 '^j : /jf| i, ■;], J: iT -| VJ jj.j \j# ;'j '| •I 1
111 PjliilPlßf S]|l|ppS
I ißi aniilili i iifiil KlSm Sm r ■ i
If Ipl lMWA n ilpp..! l !!oll|p 1 |ii I
d
BMpr . , ;; - j;: - : • y^gg^-z^r-i 7 '- - ," ;=:: = £=;:^~'': ===^-.. = ' ' =====


CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
OF THE
BULLETIN
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 14.—N0. 774.
BATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1894.
PriCß, (!d.
The Man Who was Away.
fy\ K(? Wi cl 0 w sought Ike lauuye-r s fopm iaJith children three ui foul
She fold the fawy&r- man, her fide ux tones of dezpesf ulve. Zuld sh.ehu
husband, took hi drink side, anrT
tre/er dmd a died.
jju n sober breath,-he died uiitß-
ouf a ahll,und I must S-M fhr bitot lanci
Unr ckrikE-rs frvoatfw to
frit tS"
tfrourn &rJo£o
haf some, h chit dee ue-f
Cind tunes is bvca had in-
deed - a u hoed
there's Kin-
avid Sus and little Urns tlieyj stops attuw- cmd Ims married,
ferniiude- j'i’dl tkathmhs for smj iP-re-e.. md wet is dtmAa team's skuf
ulonCj fe' cmc/ OwHefe dodnffu- fhbwi, dm fw is
uluy .” Slfe fou'w&f uiwfe IH-g. cl&fes cWn- m Mh- pf fwfe jffe. 11 ifere's ffe-
n-ie,- Susan.- Phnsfojm,K- Hfej -stfjp aHi-ome- wiilH yw, <£>iwws Samh&toUrictis
and ih&ti&s - VI uJrife few- felay, ife Okal abefefe ofer piw- -fe cm#i4w>
is (xula-u ? jjou-ll kailttu fem-
of fend " ohe. fedou)
Uou. u-H-der-sfemi 7 T
KnonJ eJhnffe smj, Urns’ll
fatTttu is - auio>M pafc
iaid [dpuafih you
ffindbu-m fenol - hts dot
com-^t-hvn side- flush' ht-
mjstwy of life-
ish- his cottsmt To
shufeltd itutiu smif Ofedont
a laiAJyu oucjht fo H - I cion-t'
do tildlfou-hti'm
hut dht- little hoy swhe-ap
hwulj Ht‘i done- awnfasifr-
Si/anort
tuaclt-it clturns day,-
f»
•jfo "aMUj
TVtlO
/y/foejj
f: ~f •
Suineci
( s- Mh.
THE MAN WHO WAS AWAY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. (Limited.)
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province, you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city TifK Bulletin is not delivered by mail, l)ut is entirely
in the ha nds of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to
interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted, —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. AU
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilach and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical dra wings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
an I interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event, will
be p lid for same on acceptance. Any picture containing
a good or adaptable idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn — will* be.
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also ;— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Yotice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland
and South Australia,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N.S. Wales is now £l, with 2s. 2d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd.
Notice to Agents.
MAORILAND, TASMANIA and WEST
A US Tit ALIA.
Owing to Governments of the above-named provinces
having imposed Half-penny postage on all papers from
Ist July, 189 It, agents are informed from that date the
wholesale rate for Tub Bulletin will be altered from
Four Shillings to Four Shillings and Sixpence per doeen.
In the Days When the World
Was Wide.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world is narrow and ways are short, and our
lives are dull and slow,
For little is new where the crowds resort, and less
where the wanderers go;
Greater, or smaller, the same old things we see by
the dull road side —
And tired of all is the spirit that sings of the days
when the world was wide.
When the North was hale in the march of Time,
and the South and the West were new,
And the “ gorgeous East ” was a pantomime, as it
seemed in our boyhood’s view ;
When Spain was first on the waves of change, and
proud in the ranks of pride,
And all was wonderful, new, and strange, in the
days when the world was wide.
Chen a man could fight if his heart was bold, and
win if his faith was true—
Be it fame, or honor, or pow’r, or gold, or all that
our hearts pursue—
Could live to the world for the family name—or
die for the family pride—
Cquld fly from sorrow, and wrong, and shame, in
the days when the world was wide.
They sailed away in the ships that sailed ere
science controlled the main,
When the strong, brave heart of a man prevailed
as ’twill never prevail again ;
They know not whither, nor much they cared —
let Fate or the winds decide —
The worst of the Great Unknown they dared, in
the days when the world was wide.
They raised new stars on the “ silent sea ” that
could fill their hearts with awe,
They came to many a “ strange countree ” and
“ marvellous ” sights they saw.
The villagers gaped at the tales they told, and
old eyes glistenedbvith pride—
When barbarous cities were paved with gold, in
the days when the world was wide.
’Twas honest metal and honest wood—in the days
of the Outward Bound—
When men were “ gallant ” and ships were “good ”
—roaming the wide world round.
The gods could envy a leader then when “ Follow
me, lads ! ” he cried —
They faced each other and fought like men in the
days when the world was wide.
They tried to live as a free man should ; they were
happier men than we.
In the glorious days of wine and blood, when
liberty crossed the sea,
’Twas a “ comrade true ” or a “ foeman ” then, and
a trusty sword well tried.
(They faced each other and fought like men in the
days when the world was wide.)
The “good ship” bound for the Southern seas
when the beacon was Ballarat!
With a “ Ship ahoy !” on the fresh’ning breeze,
“ Where bound ?.” or, “ What ship’s that ? ”
The “ immigrant train ” to New Mexico, the
“ rush ” to the Lachlan side—
Ah ! faint is the echo of “ Westward Ho ! ” from
the days when the world was wide !
South, east and west in advance of Time —and,
ay ! in advance of Thought!
Those brave men rose to a height sublime —and is
it for this they fought ?
And is it for this damned life we praise the god-
like spirit that died
At Eureka Stockade in the “roarin’ days” with
the days when the world was wide ?
We fight like women and “feel” as such, the
thoughts of our hearts we guard,
Where scarcely the scorn of a god can touch the
sneer of a sneak hits hard.
The treacherous tongue and cowardly pen—the
weapons of curs decide—
They faced each other and fought like men in the
days when th® world was wide.
Think of it all —of the life that is ! Study your
friends and foes !
Study the past! and answer this: “ Are these
times better than those ?”
The life-long quarrel, the paltry spite, the sting of
your poisoned pride !
No matter who fell, it were better to fight as they
did when the world was wide.
Boast as you like of yotir “mateship” now-
crippled and mean and sly—
The lines of suspicion on friendship’s brow were
traced since the days gone by.
There was roqm in thqlong, free lines of the van to
fight for it side by side—
There was beating room for the heart of a man, in
the days when tire world was wide.
With its dull, brown days of a shilling-an-hour
the dreary year drags round—
Is this the result of “Old England’s” power?—
the bourne of the “ Outward Bound ?”
Is this the sequel of “ Westward Ho !” of the days
of “ Whate’er betide !”
The heart of the rebel makes answer, “ No!
We’ll fight till the world grows wide !”
The world shall yet be a wider world—for the
tokens are manifest ;
East and North shall the wrongs be hurled that
followed us South and West.
The march of Freedom is North by the Dawn !
Follow—" whate’er betide !”
Sons of the Exiles, march ! March on !—march
till the world grows wide !
HENRY LAWSON.
Two Cockies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A long view of dusty road; two heavily-laden
waggons, each drawn by three horses ; two men
trudging steadily beside them with shouldered
whips—as fine a pair of lithe, six-foot Australians
as could bq found between Wilson’s Promontory
and Cape York.
They were on their way to the Riverina to
select on some land that had just been thrown
open. Their father’s selection of 320 acres was
too small to hold these two and four brothers —a
fact recognised some years previously, and making
them set to at once, working as hard as the devil
for souls, to earn enough money to buy drays and
horses and keep for some months.
At the end of a week they arrived, being first on
the field —which surprised them a bit. They had
the pick of the place, and selected so as to have
the middle of the hut exactly on the boundary
line of their holdings, not considering it worth
while to build two huts at first. In six weeks
they had six acres cleared, chock-and-log fenced,
and sown with wheat.
The iifixt Sunday they were sitting on a plank
outside the hut, smoking, and discussing with
satisfaction their future prospects.
‘ ‘ Hullo, I wonder who they are ?” said Bill,
spying two horsemen in the distance.
‘‘They seem to be coming here,” said Tom, as
ho leant forward to look. “So they are; we’ll
soon see what they want, anyhow.”
Then they shut up and smoked.
When the horsemen came closer, one of them
was seen to be a gentleman—that is, judging him
in the modern fashion, by his clothes ; the other
dressed, and looked, the overseer. Bath were
mounted on splendid horses, whioh Tom and Bill
admired before they even looked at the riders;
and Tom continued his admiration through the
first question.
“ What are you fellows doing here?” asked the
gentleman, pulling up in front of them. By his
tone they guessed at once that he was the owner
of the station on which they had selected.
Bill narrowed his eyes, looking up rapidly from
the horses’ legs, and drawled vlry slowly:
“ Having a spell.”
The squatter’s face reddened a little.
“ Gorge, now ! I don’t mean that —what are you
doing on this land ? ”
“ Clearing it,” drawled Bill, more slowly still.
The squatter looked very mad, very red, and
began to speak rapidly.
‘ Do you know you are on my property and
have no right here ? ”
“ No, I don’t.”
“ Well, I tell you so ; and you’ll have to get off
it: do you understand ?”
“ Why didn’t you tell us that a month ago?
Your overseer knew we were here. But this isn’t
your property either; it’s ours now ; so don’t try
any bluff with us or we’ll warn you off; and if
you don’t go, prosecute you for trespass.”
The squatter urged his horse forward a step or
two and raised his riding-whip. Bill never moved ;
but the squatter saw a look come into his eyes that
made him lower the whip hastily, and pull back
again.
Tom rose slowly, walked into the hut, and came
out with a double-barrelled gun.
“You fellers had better get,” he said—and they
did.
* * *
In another six weeks Bill and Tom had
cleared and sown another six acres, still keeping
to the plan of half on each selection. Their first
crop had sprouted a few inches, when, one morn-
ing, they found it eaten to the roots and some
sheep still nibbling at it.
Bill walked over and looked at the gap in the
fence and then called out: “I say, Tom, some of
those mangy station-hands have done this ! ”
Tom was quietly driving the sheep out; as soon
as he heard this he sooled his dog on to them,
which worried three to death.
Bill and Tom set to work at once repairing
damages, when they saw the overseer coming across
■ the paddock.
“ I wonder how much that fellow had to do with
this business ? ” said Tom.
“ Very little, I think. I expect it was that
d d squatter,” replied Bill.
“ Hullo ! ” said the overseer, catching sight of
the dead sheep ; “ how did that happen ? ”
“ My dog killed them. Which of your men
broke down our fence last night ?”
“I know nothing about breaking your fence
down ; but you’ll have to pay for those sheep.”
“ I’ll see you in h—l first.”
“You’ll go to gaol, then.”
“ Will I ? You mangy squatter’s cur ! Get !”
Tom stooped quickly, picked up a clod, and
threw it with all his strength. It struck the over-
seer’s horse on the neck, making it rear so vio-
lently as to nearly throw him. Then the horse
bolted.
“I guess he had to get that time without wish-
ing it, ” said Bill.
Three days later Tom was arrested for sheep-
stealing. Bill offered bail ; it was refused. The
squatter was the magistrate; and Tom got three
months’ hard.
Bill was in a fearful state, and felt sorry Tom
hadn’t shot the squatter when he came to the hut,
and taken to the bush. “ And people wonder how
bushrangers are' made,” he thought. On his way
from the court-house, a man spoke to him whom
he had never seen before.
“ Didn’t you fellows notice that no land was
taken up on the run ?”
“Yes.”
“ Do you know why ?”
“ No.”
“ Oh ; I see you don’t know the squatter’s repu-
tation, then. Look here, young fellow, you’d
better take good advice and get !”
“I’ll be hanged if I do.” And Bill walked on.
Three weeks after, the crops were up again,
when it struck Bill he had better keep watch ; so
he slung Ins hammock between the trees on an
uncleared part of the selection, close to the cleared.
The third night he fell asleep, and got a good
ducking from an unexpected shower —which, how-
ever, did not wash away his intention, although it
made him use powerful bush English. The fifth
night he was awakened by the bleating of a
frightened sheep. He was up like a shot; but a
glance showed him that the mischief was already
done. Bill was just about mad—all the madder
that it was partly with himself for falling asleep
again.
The men driving the sheep did not know they
were discovered. They knew, first, when they
saw their horses galloping wildly away ; and,
secondly, when one of them was tumbled over by a
chunk of wood, senseless ; for Bill properly recog-
nised that one man was easier to fight than two.
Then the fun began. Both were over six feet,
wiry, and in splendid condition; but Bill felt the
moral superiority of the injured party. Round
and round they went, just like a pair of game
cocks, feinting and plugging, but neither getting
home properly. At last Bill planted one between
the eyes, which knocked his opponent clean off his
feet as he stepped back to avoid it. Up he got,
and sailed in again. Bill already felt sure of vic-
tory, when he got one on the side of the head
which made him see stars.
They parted at this, for both felt a bit dazed,
and sat down under the trees about twelve feet
apart, eyeing one another with interest.
“ You can fight,” said Bill.
“ So can you.”
“ You’re pretty game,” continued Bill.
“ Not gamer than you, anyhow.”
A solemn silence now intervened, only inter-
rupted by a satirical chuckle from a jackass
perched on a bare branch above them, the hoot of
a distant mopoke, the night wind gently rustling
the leaves, and the quick breathing of the two
men.
They rose simultaneously ; again they faced.
The fun became faster and more furious, for
neither intended to fight another round. Bill was
more careful this time, giving no opportunities and
taking all. At last Bill saw his man show signs
of temper, and commence to let out savagely. He
immediately became more wary. His opportunity
soon came ; one on the nose and a right-hander on
the point of the jaw, and the squatter’s tool lay
stretched out without an ounce of fight left in
him.
• # •
At the end of his term Tom was liberated;
but both he and Bill were different men.
Whilst Tom was in gaol, Bill was harassed
by every means ingenious malice could sug-
gest. So they determined to clear out, and
to take every chance of getting even with
the squatter. Their horses were harnessed to the
drays ; utilities were packed into them ; the hut
was knocked to pieces ; and everything that might
be useful to the squatter, which they couldn’t take
away, was destroyed. The moon and a few night-
birds were the only witnesses of their departure,
which was as they wished. They felt a little
regret at leaving what they had intended to make
happy homes, but wore too angry for the feeling to
last long. They went direct to Albury.
* # #
The next day the squatter had to call out
all his men and ask his neighbors’ help to quell the
fire that had broken out on his run. Most of the
grass on the station was destroyed before the fire was
extinguished, and he had to sell half his sheep at a
loss for fear of losing all by hunger. All who
knew the story of the selectors chuckled, and said
they had calculated well and begun early.
The squatter had runs in the three eastern pro-
vinces to the number of eight. And it was now
observed that Regularly once a year some misfor-
tune would happen one of them ; until it was said
by other squatters that Joe Jackson’s luck had
turned. This run of misfortune lasted several
years, and was making the squatter’s hair turn
white. Tom and Bill occasionally saw him with the
worried look on his face ; it made them turn away
and look as if they had just listened to a good
joke. Then the bad luck suddenly ceased,
and the squatter’s stations gave their usual re-
turns —all except one, into the dams of which a
lot of Murray crabs had found their way; which
was ingenious.
* • •
Bill grew tired of wandering round the
country ; so he looked out for a quiet job as shep-
herd or boundary-rider. He found a billet which
combined the two on Joe Jackson’s station in
Victoria, where no horse could be used on account
of the rough nature of the country. This station
was in the great bend of the mountains where the
systems of N.S.W. and Victoria meet. Beyond
the boundary of the station it was considered too
scrubby even for rabbits. Bill had not been on
the place six months before he knew better.
The summer had been very dry; the sheep were
thin and inclined to wander. One day, on going
his rounds, Bill found the fence broken down and
about a thousand sheep missing. The other side
of the fence was a strip of bare rocks for about
half-a-mile ; beyond, impenetrable scrub.
Bill mended the fence and reported the loss,
with details, to the super.; who only said:
“ Queer! we lost a big mob some time ago. Any-
how, old Skinflint will be glad ; it will save him
the expense of boiling down —which doesn’t pay—
and let the rest have more grass. He would have
killed them for manure if he hadn’t feared the
5.P.0.A.”
Bill returned to his hut and books—for Bill had
taken to improving his good State-school educa-
tion—and thought no more about the matter for a
few days. Then he began to wonder where such
a big flock could have got to. By reading, he
knew the country beyond was practically unex-
plored ; and his knowledge of sheep told him that
if there were no grass they would have come back
again. Then he came to the conclusion that they
were either dead or had found food.
Bill’s dog was a very good one, as was proved
by the many attempts to steal it. Bill took
it to where the sheep had broken through, and
said, “Fetch ’em out, Jacky !? Jacky crossed
the stony patch, straight for the scrub, and dis-
appeared under it. Bill followed, dived under the
scrub on his hands and knees ; worming his way
with difficulty, and getting many a whack from
back-swinging branches. After 30 or 40 yards of
this he noticed the scrub thinning and becoming
taller, until he was able to walk upright. This
thin band was about 15 yards wide, being due to
an outcrop of rock. On each side the scrub was
as dense as ever.
About six miles were passed thus, the scrub
becoming small trees as he ascended. Then Bill
passed over a ridge through a gap, which, as he
descended, became a ravine, and dropped very
abruptly into one of the prettiest valleys imagin-
able, with the lost sheep grazing as contentedly
as pigs in a potato-patch. He had in sight about
10,000 acres, and about 5000 sheep, the valley
being sparsely timbered, well-watered, and capable
of feeding about seven times as many sheep.
That night, on his return, Bill wrote a letter to
Tom, telling of the find, and saying he intended
using the sheep, with Tom’s help, for their mutual
benefit, since they both owed old Jackson a grudge,
and this was one of the best ways to pay him out.
Tom read the letter with interest; then sadly
shook his head. The cause of this sadness was
Tom’s religious turn. A travelling parson had
besought him to alter his sinful ways, and to
become generally godly —that is, like the parson.
Tom, of a more pliable nature than Bill, listened,
and was converted. His answer to the letter ran
thus;—
■» My Dear Brother William,— l am very much Grieved
to think that you have not yet altered your Sinful way of
living’. I feel sure you would do so, if you could only see
and hear such a man as Mr. Snuffle ; he is a most Godly
man, and has made me feel that I would like to be Good.
The Good Book says that we should forgive one another ;
and I have forgiven Mr. Jaokson. Do so, too, dear
William, and let us not take another man’s Sheep.—From
your loving and anxious brother, Thomas.
, Bill looked very queer after reading this, gazing
absently into the flames. Then he took up his
pen and wrote :
Dear Tom, — Go to Blazes. —Yours as ever, Bill.
When Tom got this he looked very queer, too,
and thought hard for a bit. Then he kicked the
parson’s tracts into the fire; and the parson enter-
ing at the moment, Tom felt inclined to kick
him—but didn’t. In a month Bill and Tom were
together again.
They worked the find in perfect secrecy. Tom
acted as drover, going into N.S.W. to bring down
sheep for the Victorian markets, and mixing their
own drafts with them. They also improved their
sheep by borrowing some first-class rams from
Jackson, returning them before they were missed.
Two years after, they had saved up a good, round
sum.
The sheep had begun to wear a track at the
valley exit, which made Tom and Bill fear it
would be discovered; so Bill went to the Lands
Office and applied for 20,000 acres in his own
name and Tom’s.
Stingy Jackson, as he was called, was not a
little surprised that one of his boundary men had
applied for land so near his—and with such a bad
reputation, too. But as Bill had, in Jackson’s
eyes, become a squatter, he called on him and
asked to be shown over the place. The request
was'granted; he looked at the sheep; then he
looked again.
“ Where the devil did you get those sheep ?”
“ Found ’em,” said Bill.
‘ ‘ Why, damn it, man, they must be what I lost
two years ago !”
“ I think they are,” said Bill, with deliberate
vagueness, “ but they may not be.”
Jackson saw he could not prove the sheep were
his in a law-court; but told everyone the new
fellows were thieves, and had admitted the sheep
were his when he recognised them. Tom and Bill
denied it, and were more generally believed ; for
mean men like Jackson do queer things some-
times.
Jackson then took to relieving his feelings by
calling them scoundrels, liars, and so on. Tom
met him in the township one day and threatened
to hammer him. Jackson slunk away cursing,
and repeated his slanders. The day after Bill met
him in the township pub., and belted him soundly.
Jackson sued for assault and battery; at the
trial, the whole history of Tom and Bill came out
(with some exceptions here and there)—their
selections, Tom’s gaoling, and who gaoled him.
The result was—“ Verdict for the defendant.”
Stingy Jackson slunk out of the courthouse,
amid baas and caterwauls, like a beaten dog.
Bill afterwards got into Parliament, and sup-
ported all the good land legislation brought in.
And when men selected on his and Jackson’s
stations he helped them—particularly those on
Jackson’s. Bill was one of the few men who can
stand success.
W. BRENTA.


THE GHOSTS OF THE DESERT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had ridden far over the country side,
Where all things living had drooped and died ;
Where the soil was blasted, the land accurst,
Its veins licked dry by the sun’s fierce thirst.
The plains stretched on in an endless maze,
And over them danced a shimmering haze—
A freakish haze that in glamourie
Turned a stone to a rock, a bush to a tree.
The blacks had told us—they lie at best—
Of a fair lagoon in the unknown West,
And I rode through the blaze of a summer day
To find out the spot where that water lay.
Timber in sight! the blowsy sun
Dropped suddenly down, for his work was done.
Timber it was ! I looked around —
The withered blue-bush lay on the ground.
Through the sullen twilight ! rode ahead
Till the stalks of the ’lignum shone gaunt and red ;
But the hole was dry, the bed was bare,
The bones of a wild dog rotted there.
The dash of a thunderstorm had passed
O’er one patch of ground and that spot was grassed
With short burnt feed, and I blessed the sight
For my tired horses would feed that night.
I had food, in my bag was some water lees,
So I camped by a thicket of mulga trees,
Made a fire of the scrub-wood hard and dead,
On the saddle rested my weary head.
Into the circle of light and flame
A fluttering figure with bright eyes came—
Came, and perched on a naked tree —
An owl; and it solemnly stared at me.
Over the tree-tops the sky grew bright,
The great round moon rose into sight
Rose with a sick and yellow gleam
Like the dim, dead moon of a nightmare dream.
“Ha ! ha! ” cried the owl. “Ho!ho ! ” cried he,
And the moon and the owl both stared at me.
I slept as tired men sleep, and the pain
Of the long, hot ride was dreamt o’er again.
Then I startled woke—on my ear there fell
The sound of a deep cathedral bell.
The night was clear, the owl sat there ;
The scrub loomed dark, the ground .was bare ;
Afar on the plain a shadowy pile
Rose in my sight ’neath the moon’s cold smile.
Dreaming or waking, I cannot tell,
But I followed the voice of that deep-toned bell.
“Ha! ha!” cried the owl. “Ho! ho !” cried he;
But I left him perched on the withered tree.
There in the heart of that desert land
I saw a towering minster stand,
Its rich-hued windows ablaze with light
Whilst pealing music awoke the night.
At the open portal I stayed my tread
For a moment—then entered and bared my head
In my dust-stained garments amid thai host
The only one who was not a ghost.
Though the drooping faces were wrung with pdn,
I felt no fear in that haunted fane,
But I saw that my presence, unbidden, strange,
Wrought swiftly a sid and sudden change.
The altar lights burned dull and dim,
The choir’s loud chant sank low,
Instead of the grand triumphant
hymn,’
That had made the air to throb and
swim,
’Twas a requiem sad and slow.
Strange were the forms who knelt in
prayer,
For the dead of the desert were
gathered there;
Whites—with the thirst and hunger
brand—
Uplifted to heaven a fleshless
hand.
Blacks—with a bullet-shattered
bone—
Uttered a long, reproachful moan —
All who had fallen, by scrub and
plain,
From the eastern coast to the western
main.
All who had suffered fell Nature’s
wrath
In the van of a nation’s onward
path,
Had died in their harness, unknown,
unwept,
That night in the desert a vigil
kept.
Though their white lips moved not a
breath they drew,
The deep responses giving,
As I looked at their cold fixed eyes I
knew
That dead souls prayed for the living.
And still as I listened there seemed to grow
A cry of anguish, a wail of woe,
From that spectral throng, and they sobbed in
P ain ,
For the lives laid down and all in vain.
They had dreamt, as their eyes closed dull and
They had opened a track for a nation’s tread ;
They had thought, as the failing brain grew weak,
That smiling plenty would line each creek ;
That the toiling poor would enjoy the lands
They had fought for and held with their dying
hands;
That farm and vineyard would grow apace,
Where they looked their last on a lifeless space.
But the western downs, where the red sun sank,
Are held in the name of a tottering
bank;
And the boundless pastures, the ver-
dant sod,
Belong to an oily man of God.
The cities, where vice and crime cry
loud,
Are rearing a stunted and pallid
crowd ;
And the taciturn bushman of sturdy
stamp
Gives place to the loafing, foul-
mouthed tramp.
And they moaned - uplifting their
hollow eyes—
“We were offered a useless sacri-
fice ;
For greed and plunder our blood was
spent—
For the curse of a rotten Parlia-
ment.”
And ever and ever, in gathering
swarms,
Came trooping and trooping those
awful forms,
Till the din of their wailing grew
loud and higher,
And I woke, with a start, by my own
camp-fire.
In the west the burnt-out moon hung
low,
The scrub-wood ashes were white as
snow,
The owl still blinked, with a drowsy
stare.
And the morning star was a glory there.
The grey sky blushed with the dawning red.
At the first faint gleam the phantoms fled ;
The owl flew off, w ith a mocking scream,
And daylight banished that wild, weird dream.
ERNEST FAVENC.
The " Woman Scorned."
A TRAGEDY OF THREE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Stuitzen, pacing to and fro upon his post,
peered anxiously through the darkness towards
the prison building —a long, black blur upon a
starless sky. With every minute’s delay that
lessened his chance of the reward, the risk he ran
appeared to dwindle —the reward itself to swell;
but when, at last, two women’s figures, black and
noiseless, took sudden shape beside him, the
danger reared itself again before his mind in full
proportions.
“ As silent as death,” he whispered in the taller
woman’s ear. “Listen!”
From right and left came distinctly through
the stillness the rhythmic steps of men—like
Stuitzen, water-sentries —but not like Stuitzen,
expectant of 12,000 guilders for contriving the
escape of a Sumatran “princess;” which per-
sonage—the shorter of the women—made now a
gesture of impatience, said something, also, in a
voice so loud that, on the instant, the distant
pacing ceased.
“ Down with her to the boat, quick!” the warder
whispered, rapidly, “ but touch nothing till I
come”—and lie resumed his measured tread, until
his fellows, judging all was right, did likewise.
“ Whites—with the thirst and hunger brand —
Uplifted to heaven a fleshless hand.”
Then Stuitzen spat contemptuously towards the
prison, unfixed his bayonet, slung his rifle, and
, ■ cautiously down the shelving sand-bank.
T B women were already in the boat, and the
Ui iU pushed her off with ease, for here, inside the
Isle of graves, there was bub little surf. Little
wind, either—for the same season—and slowly
they stood over for Chapel Point. Outside,
against the sea-wall of the prison-cemetery, the
waves would make noise enough to drown their
voices—but they couldn’t weather the point, and
unwillingly Stuitzen put the boat about for a short
board to south-east —a shift of helm without which
this story would never have been written. lor the
“ princess ” —understanding only that the boat
was heading back towards Padak —sprang up with
a scream that cleft the night-air for a mile. A red
flash answered from the shore —then, with the
sharp bark of the rifle, came a fainter flash from
“ But the hole was dry, the bed was bare.
The bones of a wild dog rotted there.”
further off —a duller report—another, and another
—as the alarm circled completely round the island.
“Smother the she-devil!” hissed Stuitzen to his
wife; and better would it have been for Mrs.
Stuitzen —late female warder in Padak —if she
had literally obeyed his order. But only with
handkerchief and hand she stopped the other
woman’s mouth, and held her till the boat, upon
her former tack, was standing out to sea. A
silent boat, then, for the Sumatran had collapsed
in the bows, and the Stuitzens were listening for
something. Two minutes, and it came —the
cannon-shot that carried far and wide the news of
a prisoner’s escape, and loosed upon the startled
night a sullen roll of corroborative echoes.
Then, again, silence, and Stuitzen —his dis-
jointed utterance travelling with his slowly-work-
ing wits—said, “That —settles it! No use, now
—to run for the Tidambang ! The kanonneerboot
will be there before us ! We’ll have to make for
the Carabongs, and keep dark till the fuss is
over!”
» • •
“ Six weeks we have been here !” said
Mrs. Stuitzen, answering her husband. “And”
—with a significant glanoe at the Sumatran—“it
is high time for us to go !”
The man laughed uneasily. Marital infidelity—
conventionally attributed to innate depravity—is
just as often due to nothing worse than the
craving of variety, and Stuitzen —a moral non-
descript, with brutal possibilities—might never,
under ordinary circumstances, have discovered
even that he wanted a change. But he had his
full share of vanity, and the knowledge that
Ganga—this buxom, brown woman with the
splendid eyes—was striving to supplant his wife,
set him noticing how hard Mrs. Stuitzen’s Frisian
features were growing—how thin her sandy hair,
and how dim her pale-blue eyes.
He thought it best to bluster. His wife-he
told her with many Dutch expletives was a
jealous idiot! “ Bonder en weerlichtl —did she
think he was never going to look at another
woman? And, in short, he was a man, and would
do as he chose !”
“Not this, Sybrandt!—after all these years !”
and the hollow-eyed woman caught his unwilling
hand.
Ganga laughed—the poisoned snigger with
which woman stings woman. “He is mine !’’ the
laugh said. “ Poor wretch ! —you can do nothing
with him, now I”
Hekla Stuitzen —a woman of the people—had
no conventional dignity to sustain; she stepped
swiftly across and struck the “princess” on the
mouth—a blow that started blood out of the full,
insolent lips. Stuitzen’s bayonet lay in a corner
the tent, and the Sumatran —a triple murderess
already—had it in her hand before the man could
interpose. But the Dutchwoman —officially ac-
customed to emergencies—parried the thrust with
one hand, wrested the weapon away with the
other, and sent it whizzing out over the rollers
into deep water.
Stuitzen threw off the mask. Taking Ganga
round the waist, he drew her back, kissed the
blood from her mouth, and looked round savagely
at his wife.
“ Your place is outside, now !” he said. “See
that you stay there! ” and, without a word, she
went.
• * •
With night came a heavy westerly blow,
but the fringing reef took most of the surf, and
the tent—well stayed with boat-gear—stood the
squall. Biit outside, in the rain and darkness,
Mrs. Stuitzen sat and tried the occupants for
their lives. Where folk were numerous, she
thought — where she might have had a chance of
seeming not to know —it might have been more
endurable. But here —the only three human
beings within a hundred miles —the insolent
grossness of the thing was intolerable. “ The
woman shall die 1 ” she decided —“and the man,
perhaps I ”
* • *
Sfcuitzen came from the tent and called.
Upon the reef the snowy ridges were still thunder-
ing in, but, beyond, the sea shone blue again to
an unclouded morning sun.
Mrs. Stuitzen went wearily over—a piteous
figure, with sodden hair and drenched garments—
and her husband, pipe in mouth, let a shadow of
compunction steal into his florid, wooden face.
He brought out a little metal cup of brandy and
held it towards her. She drank it, for she didn’t
want to throw away her life—yet.
“ Well, vrow ! ’’—Stuitzen avoided her eye—
“you see what a fool you’ve been, by this time, X
hope. You can come into the tent again, now,
if you like ? ”
“ Call me no longer vrow ! ” she answered
quietly. “And, if I ever enter that tent while
the is in it, I shall be as mean as—as you are !”
Stuitzen dashed his pipe in her face. “ Verdoem-
nisi—stay out, then! And, look here !—make
yourself useful!’’ He brought out half-a-dozen
turtle’s eggs. “ Make a fire and roast these for
her breakfast ’’ —pointing back into the tent.
But no such petty malice had power to touch
this apathetic woman. She calmly took the eggs
and did as she was bidden. ‘Then while the others
ate, she wandered off along the beach till Stuitzen
called her back. He was struggling with laughter
and a mouthful of egg. “ Ganga says,” he began
—and broke out into a fresh guffaw.
“Ganga says,’’ took up the Sumatran rapidly
in Malay, “ that if it be thy purpose to drown thy-
self, better would it be to do it here, that Ganga’s
eyes may be gladdened with the sight.”
“And this,’’ said Mrs. Stuitzen, in Dutch, “is
what this creature laughs at!—this heartless hog I
have so long mistaken for a man!” Then, in
Malay—“ Myself I will nob drown, woman.
Drown me, thou, if thou darest! —thou or thy
miserable .”
Stuitzen stopped her speech with a will-aimed
egg—an act more farcical than tragic, but an act
that sealed his fate. The outraged woman made
no sign. Submissively she cleared the stuff from
her face—submissively endured the other woman’s
taunting laughter. “He will be going to the hill
to look-out presently,” Mrs. Stuitzen told herself ;
“ and he will be afraid to leave her here with
me !”
She was right. Her husband brought out his
rifle and a shot-gun. “ Better out of your way,
these playthings !” he said to the white woman ;
then to the brown one—“ Come thou with me,
Ganga! If no sign I see to-day of that accursed
kanonneerboot, from here will we sail to-morrow !
With favourable winds three days should see us
in thy river of Tidambang.’’
“ Willi her?” said Ganga’s questioning glance.
Stuitzeu’s shaken head answered “No 1” —and
Stuitzen’s wife, understanding, hardened her
heart the more.
• • #
She could see them through the trees—
black specks upon the low basaltic ridge that
made the island’s northern end. But they could
not see her, she knew.
She went into the tent and brought out a
canister of gunpowder, provided by Stuitzen, the
methodical, for the service of the shot-gun. Off
this she took the lid, and, raking away the embers
of the fire, buried the canister so slightly in the
sandy soil that its open mouth was barely screened
from view. Waiting, then, until the embers were
extinct, she gathered them again into place above
the hidden powder.
“I will hide ! This snake of a woman will have
to cook. Then ! ”
For 20 hours she had not eaten, but thirst was
all she felt, as she stole down into the hollow
where the sago-palms were thickest. There was
water here, in pools amongst the stiff, red clay.
Mrs. Stuitzen drank, and lay down to wait,
*» , •
“ lb may be that she has drowned herself,
after all.”
“Not she!” the Dutchman answered, angrily.
“ She may do evil to herself after she has done it
to us—not before. She will come back when she
is hungry —as lam now. There are more eggs in
the tent. Fetch them, my princess, and light the
fire. And be careful of these; they don’t grow on
trees hereabouts !’’
He kissed the Sumatran as she took the matches
he held out, bub the other—seeing all from her
hiding-place—only smiled. “She won’t be so
kissable in a quarter-of-an-hour—if all goes well !”
And the white woman crept a little nearer.
The fire burned slowly up. Ganga put down
the eggs to roast, and Stuitzen came over to light
his pipe. Carelessly he stooped, resting one hand
on the brown shoulder of the kneeling woman ;
then, suddenly—where both had been—there was
only a cumulus of dense, sulphurous smoke a-°,
with a thump that shook the ground the watcher
lay on, the canister exploded ! Then, shriek on
shriek made music to her ear, as she ran up and
saw, rolling on the ground, a dreadful, hairless
object, with its blackened hands pressed to its
blasted features. Bub the Dutchman, with his
clothes on fire, lay still enough !
# • *
A Banca fishing-crew, poking about
amongst the less-known Carabongs, came cue day
on a spirit, stalking by a lonely shore. Tiny
thought it was, at all events, and were getting out
their sweeps in a mighty hurry, when the thing
cried out to them—in Dutch, one said. “ Ami
who,” he wanted to know, “had ever heard of i
Dutch antu ? ” He’d swim ashore and speak t>
it—this daring fellow—if the others were afraid.
They were ; and he did ; and in the end the craft
took on board a white woman —gaunt and wild-
eyed and ragged—who was Mrs. Stuitzen.
She went with them to Banca, and there —being
a wise woman—held her peace until her death was
at hand. Then she told.
“My husband never stirred. There was apiece
of the canister so firmly fixed in his forehead that
I couldn’t pull it out. And, badly as he had
treated me, I was glad he hadn’t to suffer like the
other. She lived three days—and then I was
alone. Sorry? No—it was justice! I would do
it again I*
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.


A CHRISTMAS DINNER
AL FRESCO. Q,
The bank official
who decided to
spend his Christ-
mas indoors.
j Sales-lady . “ Which will
you have? They are both
the same price a penny
each."
Young Father ; “Madam,"
give me time for reflection ;
do not agitate me. This may
be the turning point in my child’s
life ! ”
CffflST^^ 0005
TRESPASS tW'
N I L L 'QE;
■v sho ' y
i' Ro S ccutEP •_
/
&
&
c?
Father op Family ; “ Mariar, the young ones are slinging their lollies all
lover the place. See here, lam stuck fast to my chair 1
Mariar : “ And didn't you say you wanted your children to have a happy,
I old-fashioned Christmas 1 And now you are grumbling 1 ”
Father : “So I did, so I did.” (And as he cut himself free
with a pair of grass-shears, he murmured something that sounded
like Damchicago).
City Man : “ I say, Aunt
Jane,what lovely cherries!”
Aunt Jane: “They are, an’
I’ll tell you what. If you’ll jest shin up the tree and
gather a hat-full, I’ll make you such a Christmas pie
as’U astonish you! ”
ML |
I //6
Christmas Box for a child learning to
talk.
Domain Diooknes : V.Well, if
them rich people ain’t extrava-
gant I One an’ six, why that’s
six long shandys ! ”
IlJfated Goose: My age should
pr o«R Landlady ; “ Not in my
boarding-house.”
■^^Tr'polTcT
dfdf
Searching for boating parties on Boxing
Day.
A MORE OR LESS MERRY CHRISTMAS.


M'Fee
of aberdeen
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
They’ve scraped her sides, and tarred her ropes, and
patched her suit o’ sails,
They’ve filled her full o’ varied stock for firms in
New South Wales ;
She’s left her berth on London Docks, she’s left
the Lizard light,
Ajid in the rough Atlantic now her bowsprit stabs
the night.
But, rough or smooth,
or foul or fair, what-
e’er the waters be,
He’ll take her out and
bring her home or
sink her, will
M‘Fee.
They’ve seen the sun
go down, go down,
and turn her canvas
red, ’ 1
And as she rides the
darkened seas
they’ll watch the
stars o’erhead;
They’ll watch thestars
that splash the skies
with sparkling sil-
ver spray, ...
Out in the Great Un-
fathomed Deep
away, and still
away !
But when the Trades
have filled her sheets
and sing among her
shrouds,
Like some gl.ad, buoy-
ant, spirit thing
she’ll leap towards
the clouds.
From mom to noon,
from noon to night,
she’ll pitch and roll
and toss,
And as the Bear goes
out o’ sight they’ll
see the Southern
Cross;
Across the Line and
off the land, hull-
down this side the
Cape,
By chart and com-
pass, and the sun,
her outward course
he’ll shape;
And be the ocean deep
and blue, or be the
ocean green, .
’Twill not affect his wonted calm —M‘Fee o’
Aberdeen !
The Glasgie skipper, homeward-bound, will pass
him on the way,
And as she dips her colors aft his crew will hip-
hooray,
For in the ports where sailors meet and out across
the sea
Hath passed' the name and gone the fame o’ sturdy
Jock M‘Fee.
Though print has spread and wars have raged
and rebels have been hung,
Though o’er and o’er the world has changed since
Jock M‘Fee was young,
The ways of steam he will not learn ; but, Lord,
to hear him speak
Of racing trips and rousing deeds when ships were
built o’ teak !
Ere paddle-wheels or double-screws had altered
all the years,
And sailor-men were sailor-men, not “ sea-sick
engineers.”
So build your oieamboats big as towns, electric
lights and all,
By wood and canvas, to the end, McFee will
stand or fall;
For wood and canvas, wind and tide, the books of
sky and sea,
With strange salt oaths and curses make the
knowledge of McFee.
The wars may come, the wars may end and crowns
be lost or won—
He rolls around the rolling world that rolls around
the sun.
And men may write most wondrous books, and
men may count the stars,
His aim in life is still to get all sail upon his spars,
Nor does he care how kings may fare or empires
may decline,
When, underneath his vessel’s keel, deep lies the
cable-line;
But skies of lead and seas of ink, when winds like
devils roar,
Will find her reefed and taut and snug, bare poles
and well off shore.
Some fingers, mate, are made for pens, but they
be white and soft,
And some are made as hard as nails for clewing
sail aloft,
E'er short’ning sail on stormy nights, when
the w t wind takes your breath;
For holding fast to greasy yards when letting go
means death I
So in his log-book, “ out and in,” no flowing lines
you’ll see,
But scrawling entries, short and curt, hard-written
by M‘Fee.
Said entries treat, in sailor terms, of how the
Betsy, barque,
“Was met in” —longitude exact —“May 25, at
dark,”
Or “ Sighted land at 10 a.m,” with soundings such
and such,
Or “Smith, A. 8., from crosstrees fell,” or
“Passed screw-steamer, Dutch.”
Aye, round the world, and round the world,
where’er his owners will,
His cargo aft to land and leave, his for’ard hold to
fill;
Across the seas, and o’er the seas, and o’er the
seas again,
Through night and morning, clear or cloud )
through calm and wind and rain,
She’ll roll along, she’ll pitch along, she’ll tack, and
turn, and drive,
NEW CHUM (to station-overseer): “My — er — man, are theah any—ah—
serpents about heah?"
STATION OVERSEER : “ Well no, there ain't no serpents to speak of, but there's
some snakes here plenty big enough to swaller the like of you whole
and never know they'd had anything for breakfast; an' if that ain't
good enough, yer better hurry back to London, where I dessay
yer'll find some in the Zoological Gardens as'll suit your eddycated
tastes."
And while her spars still in her stand she’ll come
to port alive.
But if her “ sticks ” and she should part, and jury-
masts should fail,
’Tis said M‘Fee would doff his shirt and still
contrive to sail. ;
The port is not on charts laid down, nor put on
maps, I ween,
Where, in his youth, or in his prime, some time he
hath not been.
He’ll talk and tell of Plymouth town, of far
Alaskan bays ;
Of New Orleans and Puget Sound, Colombo, and
its ways ;
Of arrack drunks, and sam-shu sprees, of Old
Kaintucky rye;
But when he comes to talk of girls, be sure that
none are by,
For sailormen are sailormen; the same right all
the way
From Glasgow to the Golden Gate, from Rio to
Bombay.
And Neptune rules the rolling deep, but Yenus
reigns ashore,
Sorest assured that Yenus is—as Venus was of
yore !
A lusty glass of smoky Scotch, and pass the cabin
jar ;
Here, fill yer pipe with “duty free,” and smell
the smell o’ tar.
Oh, hear ’em tramp the planks above, “ Ey-hey !
they strain and creak —
The music of the blocks, my lads, ’tis good to hear
them speak.
But, oh, the sough o’ swirling seas that from her
glide and go, , „ .
The song of lone, mid-ocean winds, and all the
songs ye know;
So roll along, so race along, so tack and turn and
drive,
You’ll get a taste o’ sand and weed, or else —come
back alive ;
You’ll take a swim some stormy night, but not for
pleasure’s sake,
Or else, in ninety days from now, a deep, long beer
you’ll take !
So pull away and haul away, and let the chanty
rise—
’Tis watch and watch for ninety days and nights,
and “damn yer eyes.”
’Tis watch and watch when on the poop your
skipper takes his stand ;
When far behind and low behind and out o’ sight
the land !
“ Sou’ east by east ” her course is set, and “ nor’
by east ” again,
With every inch o’ canvas on, she cuts the seas
amain,
Across the world and round the world and bits o’
port between,
He lives the life that sailors live, M‘Fee of
Aberdeen.
Sydney.
EDWIN J. BRADY.
"INDIFFERENT
HONEST!"
ASTUDY IN RACES
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
When, for 60,000 dollars, the Sultan of
Johore parted with Singapore Island, Rizah Ben
Abri became —much against his will—a British
subject. A good many years ago that had been,
but, the more Rizah saw of the “ noble Anglo-
Saxon race,” the less he liked it. A Singapore-
born Arab, Rizah, as became a faithful Islamite,
was temperate, just, inexorably upright; whereas,
in the average Briton of the Straits, he saw but
a creature wrapped up in its gross material needs.
That such a guzzling, swilling, money-grubbing
animal should have been allowed so extensively to
replenish the earth, was to Rizah but another
proof of the utter inscrutability of Allah’s pur-
poses.
“ Sends He not forth also the locust and the
pestilence ? ” thought Rizah, as he stepped out
upon the platform of his house and looked away
into the blackness. Not altogether blackness,
either, for, though the starless, sweltering night
showed nothing of the Johore jungles, down
amongst the mangroves of the hither shore the
swarming fire-flies flashed out, all together,
twenty times a minute, a white, electric pulse
of light that brought each twisted bush for
an instant clearly into outline. Idly Rizah
watched a sight not new to him, till presently,
amidst the lovely evanescent gleaming, there stood
out, large and steady, an eye of coarser yellow
light. Indoors went Rizah for a kris, then stole
down his ladder and made cautiously for the man-
groves. “Let me see now what is here ?” he said
to himself. “No Chinese thieves do I want so
close to my borders !”
It was dead low-water, and right and left the
night-crabs scurried out of Rizah’s way as he
picked his steps among the arching roots. The
fire-flies were taking now their periodic rest, but
all the brighter through the ragged boughs shone
the yellow light of the lantern. For a lantern it
was, making a little island of glare upon the stink-
ing mud, naked here of mangroves for a space of
20 yards across. In the centre of this opening
stood a white man, coatless and hatless—big,
burly, and perspiring. Beside him lay a chunkal
—the Chinese spade-hoe—and at his feet a little
surface of blacker mud accounted for his moisture.
He had been digging in the mud and filling up the
hole again.
“Something buried!” thought the’Arab. “I
will wait!”
Into the filled-up space the white man now
stuck, nearly to the head, an iron skewer, from
which, successively, in three directions he paced
the distance to the nearest bush. Then, from the
pocket of a flannel jacket—hanging on a branch—
he took a note-book, and, stooping with it to the
if.
“ I was as close to you as now I am! ”
the Arab said, and with the words the other's
weakness passed; the dangerous animal awoke
suddenly within him. He shut the door, backed
up against it, and thought—Rizah read it in his
cruel mouth —of homicide l
light, brought his face into clear illumination. A
full-fed countenance it was ; fleshy of nose, heavy
of jowl, and trimly iron-grey of whisker.
“ This face shall I remember well!” said Rizah
to himself ; then softly he followed the other, as,
having hidden his chunkal, donned his jacket, and
picked up his lantern, he made down towards the
water. Out went his light when he reached it,
but by the resumed gleaming of the fire-flies Rizah
saw him take the sculls of a dingy and pull away
along the shore to the eastward.
“Hardly will he have rowed round here from
the city,” thought the Arab. “ Perhaps from
Franklin Point he comes ; he looks like a man of
substance and repute. But, nevertheless, with
morning light will X see what here lies buried !
* * *
Amongst the Cosmopolitan Christians —
that will do for the name—there was consternation.
To the O.C.’s —besides a nucleus of Europeans—
belonged Eurasians and Bengalis, Chinamen and
Javanis, all of them devout and many of them
wealthy. And of this olla podrida of a Church
the comer - stone was the Reverend Anderson
Sweetman —saint, shepherd, and treasurer ! But
now from the holy man’s snug nest at Franklin
Point had been looted in the night his strong-box
with the year’s subscriptions and, so he said,
every penny he himself possessed. “ The China-
men again !” was the cry, and even the Chinese
“organ” lent its pipe to the weary old Press-
fantasia about the uselessness of the police, who,
for their part —having oracularly pronounced
“ Chinese gang-robbers ! ’’—were apparently in-
capable of saying, or doing, any more.
Meanwhile the Reverend Sweetman, having—
before the Sanhedrim, of the Cosmopolitans—
deplored, even unto tears, his Christian trustfulness
in not banking the money, had received plenary
absolution, topped off with a consolatory subscrip-
tion. All which things, having duly filtered, per
medium of the Malay-Arabie newspaper, into
Rizah Ben Abri’s cognisance, so moved that
dusky moralist that he sought out and studied a
photograph of the Cosmopolitan pastor,
“ That is the man ! ” said Rizah then. “ Justice
shall he do ! or to Justice will I deliver him up ! ”
* * *
“ These infidels make their Paradise on
earth ! ” said the Arab, as he stood next morning
in the porch of “ Gilead.’ Shut in from the outer
world by a hedge of bamboo and wild heliotrope,
the Saint’s retreat presented a picture of night-
freshened tropic beauty with which the holy man
himself —pig-eyed and gross-featured—discorded
painfully, as with a crimson cummerbund about
his abounding belly, he came to the door and
stared insolently at his visitor. No Arabs had he
in his flock; no need, therefore, to restrain his
native boorishness.
‘‘ In private ? ” he echoed, with a dissatisfied
grunt. “ Come in here, then, and be quick ! ”
* * *
“ What cock-and-bull story is this, my
good fellow ? You say you know where the money
is ! Then you must know who took it ? ”
“It is so ! ” returned the Arab, coolly. “ I
know who buried the box among the mangroves
at Tanjong Rangon ! ”
Bead-drops—not from the heat —started suddenly
out upon the shepherd’s unwholesome brow.
“ Tanjong Rangon !” he repeated slowly ; then
in a husky whisper—“ You saw me ? ”
“ I was as close to you as now I am !” the Arab
said, and with the words the other’s weakness
passed ; the dangerous animal awoke furiously
within him. He shut the door, backed up against
it, and thought—Rizah read it in his cruel mouth
—of homicide !
“And he has three times my strength!” the
Arab told himself. “Fool that I was, to come
unarmed !”
But there was no need of arms. The servants
had seen the fellow, Sweetman reflected, and—in
short, it wouldn’t do! He locked the door, put
the key in his pocket, sought inspiration from a
“ peg ” —and found it. The sullen jaw relaxed ;
the murderous eye grew calm.
“ Well, then, Rizah Ben Abri—if that’s your
name —what do you mean to do ?”
“It is you who have to do something, not I.
Restore this money! Act like the man of God
you are —supposed to be !” and over Rizah’s
thin features passed the
shadow of a sneer.
Sweetman unlocked the
door, went out, and gave
his Chinese butler cer-
tain orders, with
the result that,
while the long-
-leg g e d Kling
washerman start-
ed top-speed for town,
the cat-footed Lung-shi
placed himself close to
the door which his master
left half-open as he re-
joined his visitor.
Said Sweetman then:
“ This money must be
restored ! But, where is
it ?”
“ The box is at my
house.”
“ You took it, then I”
“Yes! I ”
“That’s enough! I’ll
So with you and get it.
>ut I have some writ-
ing to do that can’t be
postponed. If you can
wait, you’ll find cheroots
on the mantel and some
Arabic books in that
corner.”
Sweetman took a pen,
Rizah a book, and silently
passed an hour or so
before there came to the
door a rap. The shep-
herd opened. Outside,
with Lung Shi and the
panting Kling, stood three
Malay police peons.
The Reverend Anderson pointed to the
astounded Arab. “ I give this man in charge for
the theft of my strong-box ! My butler, here,
heard him confess that he stole the box and has it
now in his house !”
* * *
In Sangarook Asylum—sent there from
prison—there is a cranky Arab who maunders
day and night about a man of God, a money-box,
and a mangrove-swamp. A genii'-, inoffensive,
old man—he suddenly forfeited ot - day his repu-
tation for harmlessness and went tooth-and-nail
for one of a party of visitors.
“ Poor creature !” said the assaulted one, when
the lunatic had been dragged off. “ I remember
him now! It was myself he robbed, but, as he
confessed his crime, I did all 1 could for him. No
use, though—it was a flagrant case, and an example
was urgently needed.
The “poor creature” is Rizah Ben Abri—
enjoying the reward of virtue !
M.


Writes the “ National ’’: “ Magazine-news-
papers are the best to adveitis ■ in; An'adveriisement
which is not read does no good, and most daily papers are
only half read before they maae wiy for I heir successors.
Tlie paper that is read from end to end, "’ like Tins Brian-
tin, “is the sheet-anchor of profitable advertising.” A
good, original weekly, not a hideous jumble of reprinted
stale news spiced with ohservationsiahoul horse-colic and
turnip-diseases, is the best medium. Every man knows
that he sk'ms over a daily, at breakfast or on a tram-car.
He never reads it through. But his favorite weekly is
mentally laid aside tor an hour of leisure, and then he
reads it, and reads it right through. Tim Bullktin cir-
culates everywhere in Australasia, and even Sells 300
copies weekly in South Africa. Let the business man
personally observe, or ask ins traveller or his t iuelling
friend to keep his eyes open and say whiohpaper t's the
most widely-circu'ated in this continent. There can he
but one answer Tim Bru.sm,
AN IDTV OF
NURRA
MURRA
"COLONIAL EXPERIENCE."
(FOR THE BULLETIN).
He was twenty five ; had a big nose, a long name,
and a very large idea of himself.
He could say “ Djah boy” and “gude bai”
with the most approved English accent. He wore
checks so big that you were always wondering
whose move it was next.
His under-jaw protruded slightly, and the lower
teeth came a little forward over the upper, and
made him lisp when he summed up the people of
Nurra Murra as human monstrosities. He was
clean-shaven and tall. And he served eggs and
calico, rice and elastic, behind the counter of
Nurra Murra Freetrade stores.
He gave you to understand that he was not
born serving eggs and calico. He never said so
directly, but he made you know it subtly, and you
were ashamed of doubting.
The verdict of male Nurra Murra, long with-
held and scantily expressed, was a unanimous one
when it did come out. It was that John Cotting-
ham Everard Major was a born gentleman. With
the accent on the born.
The people of NurraMurrawerenomore addicted
than those of other country towns to making free
with the store assistants. Yet the C.P.S. handed
him his pouch when he met him at the reading-
room at nights ; the doctor yarned openly to him
in Nurra Murra High-street; the parson invited
him to drop in some night; the bank-manager was
civil.
The bank-clerks alone sneered loudly and kept
aloof. And Charlie Pearson was neutral; though
perhaps inclined to the bank-clerks’ views.
It was Charlie Pearson’s wife who first set the
ball rolling towards J.C.E.M.’s feet.
“I don’t care,” she said, “counter-jumper or
not, his manners are perfect.”
“Damned cheek,” said her husband. “What
have counter-jumpers to do with manners?”
“Or road-superintendents!” said she. Which
included him, and was cruel.
He winced. Then he smiled.
“Or their wives !” he said and, sitting down to
the piano, began the melody of “ She’s a Nice
Little Innocent Thing.”
“And I shall bow to him whenever I meet him
—there now !” ended Mrs. Pearson.
Everybody knew the story of Mrs. Pearson.
Her brother had been manager of the B.J.W.
Bank, at Nurra Murra, and she had come from
Melbourne to stay with him. She had just left
school then. And she had met Dick Thomson
there, and had loved him, even as he loved her—
or said he did. He had thrown her over, though,
for another girl who could pay his debts, and she
had married Charlie Pearson straight off. He
had asked her because he loved her, and she had
squared her brows and put a smile upon her
mouth, and stuffed Pearson into the gaping hole
the other man had left in her heart.
It did not answer, though. There came a time
when Pearson left off calling her darling, and
stopped asking her to kiss him. He was kind to
her always—a little rough sometimes; he took as
much trouble as ever to tiptoe when his boots
creaked, and to fetch her eau-de-cologne when her
head ached, but he left off going with her to
church, and took to spending his odd hours at the
doctor’s diggings. There was always somebody
to talk to there. As the doctor said, the Nurra
Murra folk were beastly healthy.
Mrs. Pearson hated, despised, and was deadly
tired of Nurra Murra.
“God made it last of all,” she wrote to her
favourite brother, a Melbourne QC. “A stick-
in-the-mud pig-sty. The men talk sheep and
wool, read ‘Rolf Boldrewood ’ and the Nurra
Murra Advertiser. The women talk fowls and
cooking and read nothing. Mrs. James, the
parson’s wife, who represents the intellect of the
place, reads a serial now and then in the weekly
paper. She doesn’t mind that, she says. It gives
you time to think between each issue. And I—
-1 forsooth, I can find nothing else in all the world
to do but think. I have left off asking them here,
but on Mondays, when I’m supposed to be at
home, they all flock round for afternoon tea—
here’s a specimen :
Me : How d’you do, Mrs. Green. Very hot,
isn’t it ?
She [gushingly) : Yes, isn't it. (Subsides sud-
denly).
Mb : I shall be so glad when the winter
comes. Do you take sugar?
She : Yes, pleaae.
Me : The summer’s so trying.
She; Yes, tsn’iit?
Me : Did you go to the tennis yesterday.
They had very good play.
She : Yes, didn't they ?
Me : I love tennis. So good for the com-
plexion.
She : Yes, isn’t it?
Me ; Not if it’s too hot, of course.
She ; No.
Me ( desperately ) : I read a good deal in this
weather. Just finished “ The Light that Failed.”
Have you read it ?
She : No, I haven’t.
Me : My brothers send me books from Mel-
bourne. They sent me “ Barrack Room Ballads ”
to-day.
She : Did they ?
Me : Do you care for poetry ?
She : When it’s read aloud. John reads aloud
nicely.
Me ( when she has gone) : Damn it! (I learnt
that from Charlie.) . . .
Nurra Murra ladies, in bedroom confidences,
called Mrs. Pearson headstrong. They would
have liked t_ make it “fast,” but she snubbed
their men so mercilessly that they couldn’t
do it.
One evening she went over to the library to
change her books. She herself had got up the
theatricals that had placed those books upon the
shelves. And she had chosen many of the books,
and was the bane of the council clerk’s life,
always giving him orders and advice, writing
lists and trying vainly to keep him up to date.
She came in listlessly this night. She wore a
white dress and a great hat that hid the childish
beauty of her face. Her books were in her hands.
She laid them on the counter,
“Good night, Small.”
“ Good night, ’m’.”
“ Have you anything in of Daudet’s?”
Her voice was grave. Her eyes were wicked.
“ Daudette I ” he said. He stared at her
through his spectacles. Full three minutes he
stared at her, then took off his specs and wiped
them, and muttered fiercely :
“ Kicked ’em out of the library.”
Then he went back to his ledger, and took no
more heed of her than had she been a stone.
“I’ll get across and look myself,” she said, at
last. All the books were behind the counter. She
looked round for a chair to mount on, and found
J.C.E.M. behind her with a chair in his hand.
“Will you allow me?” he said. “Or may Ai
not get across for you?”
“Thanks,” she said. “Did you hear Small?’’
“Aidid. Vewy funny.”
“Old wretch !”
“ Ai’ll get across and get you something gude.
Shall Ai? D’you loike something laight? Kip-
ling, Stevenson, Hobbes?”
“You must be mad !” said Mrs. Pearson.
“ Kipling , Stevenson, Hobbes!’’
“Not laikely to have them ?” he queried.
“ Get behind and see.”
“Ai’ve not been here befaw,” he said. He
jumped the counter, and, ignoring Small’s wrath,
proceeded to overhaul the shelves. Mrs. P*«u:aon
“Mag Ai have a darnce?”
w.it lied, interestedly. Whether or not she had
forgotten the yards of calico he had measured her
tuat morning, she now was taking delight in his
approaching fall.
In five minutes ho re-jumped the counter. He
looked doleful ; she, triumphant. “ And are those
the latest ?” Fun gleamed at the corners of her
mouth. He was laying three books in bright, new
covers on thecoqnter beside her—“ Oliver Twist,”
“Bell’s Modern Speaker,” and “ Vashti.”
“ I think I’ll keep what I have,” she said. “ I’ll
read it again.”
“ Is it naice?”
“Very good.
‘The Woodland-
ers.’ I gave it to
the library myself.
Have you read
it?"
“ Ai think not.”
“ Oh, well then
you ta k e it. I
get books to-
morrow from Mel-
bourne.”
. “Thank you
vewy much,” he
said. He lifted
his hat and went
away. He walked
before her down
High-street.
“Nice man,”
she said, walking
home behind him.
“Wears nice
clothes, too.”
It was after that
that she and her
husband made
their several com-
ments on counter-
jumpers.
# •
She often met
him at the library
after that. She
grew quite friend-
ly with him, and
told him stories
about Small.
“I presented
the library with
‘Jack’ yester-
day,” she said,
“and to-day I
came and asked
for it. He was
wild. He had to
give it to me,
though.”
In the winter time something happened that
sent a thrill through the township, from end to
end. Mrs. Pearson sent out invitations for a
dance, and everybody, from the parson to the
publican’s boot boy, knew she had sent one to
J.C.E.M.
Pearson himself was perhaps the last to know.
John Oottingham stopped him in the High-street
one noon. The Doctor was there, and little Main,
the bank-clerk.
“ Thanks so much for your invitation,” he said.
“ Awf’ly kaind. Ai shall be charmed to accept.”
“Glad you’re coming,” said Pearson. He
neither winced nor looked away. He even smiled
a little. When he got home he asked his wife was
Teddy Burns, the local scavenger and drunkard,
coming.
“I only ask so that I won’t look surprised when
he turns up.” She laughed, “Because I asked
Mr. Major? I meant to have told you. Who
did ?”
“He did.”
“Oh!” she looked a
little annoyed.
“ She’s sorry,” thought
Pearson; “she sees the
degradation she put me
to.”
But, “ I hope you were
nice to him,” was what
she said.
All Nurra Murra came
to the dance. The
stations round sent all
their old and most of their
young. The Pearsons’
rooms blazed with kero-
sene lights. Foremost
among the guests was
John Oottingham. Mrs.
Pearson was determined
he should be kept to the
fore. She marched him
across the room to the
belle of the district, an
heiress to boot.
“Allow me. Mr,
Major—Miss Collins.”
M iss Collins’ mind’s eye
saw him cutting off the
sateen her dress was
lined with. You could
hardly tell whether she
bowed her head or tossed
it. Mrs. Pearson went
away with a bright light
•in her eye. The belle
and the counter-jumper
were alone together.
“ May Ai have the
pleasure?” asked he.
‘ T have no programme. ”
She turned away.
He handed her one.
“Ai had two,” he said.
She took it. There was
a little pause. She still
looke 1 away.
“May Ai have a darnce? * he asked again.
“My programme’s full, she answered.
But the evening was not ail defeat. Everybody
was not a belle. Many girls said “ Yes ” because
they couldn’t honestly say “No.” More said
“Yes” because they wanted to. Ho looked so
well in evening dress. For this night they would
forget the counter and think of him as some Eng-
lish swell. And they liked him immensely.
Later in the evening he took Mrs. Pearson out
into her garden to get cool. They sat down on a
seat behind the bush-house. “ How are you get-
ting on T ” she asked. “ Programme full t ”
WITH AN EYE TO BUSINESS.
BOBBY : “Will your next new baby be a little boy, mother?”
MOTHER : “Why do you want to know, Bobby?”
B.: “’Cause Tommy can bowl me well enough, but I want a backstop.”
“ Thank you, yes. Very naice darnce. Enjoy-
in’ maiself awf’ly.”
Then he told her about the belle. They laughed.
“ May I say something to you? ” she said.
“ Anything,” he answered.
“ Well, then, Mr. Major, don’t you mind any
rebuffs you get at Nurra Murra. They’re a cad-
dish lot here. And because you serve behind a
counter the women would gladly cut you in a ball-
room.”
“ Not all. Not you.”
• “ No,” she said, proudly. “Not I; I have had
too much experience of the world to mistake—”
She paused. He waited. She knew he was
waiting.
“A gentleman,” she ended. She turned towards
him. Her closed lips smiled and parted, and her
eyes shone.
“ Yes,” he said, slowly, “ you areraight. Aiam
a gentleman. Ai can hardly say though that Ai
am proud of it.”
She thought of Richard Thomson, and didn’t
wonder.
“Ai know Ai can trust you,” he said. “Ai am
the heir to a vewy large fortune. Mai father is an
immensely wealthy man -oh, immensely. But the
girl Ai loved Was false to me, and Ai came out
here to forget her. Then Ai laiked the kawlinies
so much Ai determined to bai a station and settle
doan here. Mai friends in Sydney, though, told
me Ai should need colonial expcwience, so Ai
came up here to get it. It was a mere freak that
led me to answer the store’s advertisement.”
Mrs. Pearson listened breathlessly. When he
had finished she clasped her hands. ‘‘Oh, lam
so glad,” she said ; lam so glad. I always knew,
always, that you had a story. Do you know, a
palmist told me my hand showed the keenest dis-
crimination possible for a woman to have.”
“You have everything,”'he sail. He bent
towards her and suddenly there was a new tone in
his voice. “Ai want only one thing maiself,” he
said. “ All mai wealth and position are .”
Another voice interrupted them.
“ Well, you are a liar,” it said.
They, both started. Mijor stood up, then
seeing two men, tall, of great breadth, beside
hinij sat down quietly.
‘‘Come with me, Nell,” said the third, who
was Pearson. ‘‘Come with me.” He caught her
hand, and drew her up, and led her away.
‘‘What is it? What are you' doing?” she said.
She looked back just in time to see the men put-
ting handcuffs on Major's wrists.
‘‘They have been after him for months,” said
Pearson. “Ho was man-of-al'l-work in a big
London club, so ha made off one night with eight
hundred pounds, a lot Of watches, and six pairs
of check trousers. ” ~ ,
# • #
Afterwards he told her not to cry.
*■ She said I had such great discrimination,” she
sobbed. r ■
“ Who did ?”
‘‘The palmist.”
‘‘l believe you’re only a baby after all,” he
said. “Surely I can make you love me !”
And later on Tie did.
LOUISE M. MACK.


NIGHT IN WARD
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Night in a hospital ward begins at 8 p.m.
—the hour at which performances commence in
the theatres, and the world outside the hospital
walls begins to “spend the evening.” To the
patient who thinks himself well enough to be out
of bed for another couple of hours, at least, this is
a fact full of malignant irony.
There were many such patients in surgical
Ward Z. when I was staying there. One of them,
particularly, a young Hebrew tobacconist, who
was beginning to feel his own man again, after a
grim struggle with the Enemy, could not conceal
his contempt for a rule which, to use his own
words, compelled grown men to go to bed at the
same hour as children.
He would stand at the window, near his own
bed, looking out wistfully at the lights in the city,
and noting aloud the passage of time by the Post-
office clock.
“ Quarter to eight,” he would say; “just time
for a cigarette and a drink before turning into one
of the theatres.”
“ Ten to eight—the trams are coming in loaded
with playgoers.”
A long pause, punctuated with heavy sighs.
“ Eight!”
The lights in the ward would be turned out, one
by one.
“ The curtain is just going up—and I am going
to bed in the dark. Urr ! ”
And he would undress himself, cursing like
Shimei, the son of Gera.
“ You ought ter be mighty glad, young feller, to
have a bed to get into, these times, ” the Old Sun-
downer would remark, when he heard him, in a
tone of grave reproof.
# # *
The Old Sundowner made no secret,
amongst the other patients, of the fact that he
y was in no hurry to vacate his bed; indeed, he gave
a striking proof of his views on the matter before
I left the ward. He was practising, one morning,
with crutches on the floor of the ward. His leg
had been put in plaster-of-paris a day or two pre-
viously, and he knew that this was a sign that he
would have to go forth into the cold world again
as soon as he was able to move about without
assistance. There was no gladness in his eyes
because of this knowledge. He was not pining
for freedom. And, all of a sudden—the floor being
very slippery—he fell down and broke his leg
again. Whereby he keeps possession of his bed
until the hard winter is over and the wattle blooms
in the land, and a careful man may camp out once
more without fear of rheumatism.
“ P’r’aps,” said the jockey-boy, when the young
Hebrew tobacconist made us more than ordinarily
tired with his yearnings after theatres, “p’r’aps
one of these days you’ll be able to go to the theatre
without leaving the hospital—and be the star of
the performance, too.”
The jockey-boy referred to the Operating
Theatre,
* * *
The operating-theatre, I may explain, is
an amphitheatre in miniature. In the centre of
the arena stands a long table, beside which,
weapon in hand, the Gladiator of the occasion
takes his place. Upon the table lies the Christian
—I mean the patient. He is meek, uncomplain-
ing, resigned, chloroformed. On the benches
around, tier over tier, sit the vulture-eyed, shark-
lipped Novices of the Knife.
“I am now,” says the performing Gladiator,
addressing them, “about to show you how at one
swoop to cut out the, say,, corpus callosum.”
. Hp, plunges his weapon into the back of the head
of the victim. A quick turn of the wrist —and
ms hand flashes in the air, with the corpus callosum
held triumphantly between the thumb and fore-
finger.
“ Hagc / ” cry the embryo Gladiators, the young
Sawyers, on the benches above.
This is a, specimen of the entertainments held in
the operating-theatre.
* * #
The comic-singer was another of the
patients in Ward Z. who chafed at the Curfew
rule. His body was in the hospital, but his soul
was in the Victoria Hall. His bed was next to
mine, and sometimes we used to talk together in
whispers after the lights were turned out.
I’ve danced my last jig—which,” with melan-
choly humour, he said to me on one of these occa-
sions, “was a breakdown,” (It appeared that he
had broken his leg, in a transport of terpsichorean
frenzy, on the benefit night of one of his particular
chums in the “ Amalgamation.”) “ But I’d give a
lot to see the other boys shaking their legs just
now.” And then, perhaps, he would speculate as
to what he should do when he left the hospital.
I think,” he would say, musingly, “ when they’re
putting my leg in plaster. I’ll ask them, while
they re about it, to put me in plaster altogether, or
up to the neck, at any rate. I might then be able
to make a sort of living as the Singing Statue or
the Melodious Marble Man in the Waxworks.”
# i. # #
None of the patients I have referred to,
except, possibly, the young Hebrew tobacconist,
really wanted to be out of the ward after eight
o’clock. Their trouble was that, at that time,
they were left in the dark, with nothing but their
own thoughts to occupy their minds. If there
had been enough light by which to read for
another hour or two they would have been satis-
fied. Anybody who has for years made a practice
of reading himself to sleep will recognise at once
the serious nature of their grievance. When a
man who is compelled to remain in bed is not per-
mitted to read, and is unable to sleep, and is
forbidden to sing, or otherwise make a disturb-
ance, what is there left for him to do but lie
awake and think ? And thinking—in a hospital
bed, at any rate —means thinking about the past.
* * *
One begins by trying to call up pleasant
recollections of the good and generous deeds he
has done during the course of his life. He
manages to while away in doing this a space of
time varying from five minutes to a quarter of an
hour, according to the amount of virtue there is,
or has been, in him.
My memories of this kind used to last a full
quarter of an hour—but, then, I used to think of
them twice over, slowly.
And then he lies awake till the small hours of
the morning, writhing as he thinks about all
the mean and wicked things he has done, and
most likely falls asleep before he has got half
through the list of them, and dreams that a
Hantean devil, with a terrible trident in his hand,
is turning him over on the inconsumable anthra-
cite in order that he may be properly browned
on his other side.
He awakes, gurgling and gasping, to find that
the night-nurse is shaking his shoulder and telling
him to make haste, and wash his face, also his
hands, while it is yet dark.
Tor such is the custom in Ward Z—and, I sup-
pose, in other wards of other hospitals. The
night-nurse has to begin thus early in order to get
through her work in time.
As far as work and responsibility are concerned,
I would rather, if I had to take the choice, be three
or, at the very least, two day-nurses than one
night-nurse.
* * #
On a night I have in mind, ward Z was
more than usually quiet. The theatrical tobac-
conist was silent. Pie was going back to his beloved
theatres and gas-lit streets and cigarettes and
drinks on the following morning.
Tor nearly an hour 1 amused myself drearily by
looking at the night-nurse writing by the light of
her solitary candle. I think she was transcribing
“ The face of the man described as the new case.”
notes on lectures which she had attended, but she
may have been writing a love-letter. They
become accustomed, these nurses, to doing either
thing with equal gravity, after a time.
Then the doctor came in and he and the nurse
talked together in low tones about a case which
had been brought in two or three hours previously.
I knew all there was to know about the case—
a word of horrible impersonality which makes the
flesh creep even as the dreadful term “ It ” makes
the blood turn cold.
The man had been carried in on a stretcher by
two hospital assistants. He looked 40 years old,
or thereabouts, and wore a set scowl on his sallow
face. He had black hair, black, intelligent eyes,
and might have been pleasant to look upon when
in health, but, as it was, the dogged and bitter
curl of his thin lips repelled sympathy, even in
thought. One could see from his expression that,
if he had to die, he had made up his mind to
die as the wolf dies —biting.
He was a Oornishman, a very ordinary Cornish'
man, not the best type of Oornishman by any
means ; and yet it was curious and strange to note
how, under the supreme stimulant of suffering,
the grossness disappeared from his face, and his
profile came out clearly and finely as a profile upon
a Punic or Phoenician coin. As well it might, if
we may believe the Cornish antiquarians—Borlase
and others.
TTis wife, a thin, little woman with a drawn,
anxious face, accompanied him, and stayed after
he had been put to bed, stayed with him until the
doctors came. Then she had to go, though much
against her will.
* * *
A dozen or more of these black-coated
gentlemen—of whom it behoves me and all others
who have come out of their hands alive, to
speak with respect —surrounded his bed. They
were all there, from the great surgeon, firm-
mouthed, keen-eyed, square-chinned, and with a
massive head which looked as if it had been cut
out of granite, to the young “house-doctor,”
respectfully supercilious, who sees always, in his
mind’s eye, a passage from some future history of
medicine, commencing, “ This astounding, yet
simple revolution in the practice of medicine and
surgery was inaugurated by Q. X. Smith. He
was the Harvey and Jenner of his time. He was
the apostle of the new epoch. ”
They are, generally speaking, very clever fellows,
these house doctors, but they sometimes make one
think of what Job —that ancient, patient Job—said
to his friends, "No doubt but ye are the people,
and wisdom shall die with you.”
The result of the consultation, which occupied
less than five minutes, was that the new case was
taken down to the operating theatre, from which
he was not brought back for over an hour.
He was then placed in bed again, and the
ominous dark red screen was drawn around the
bed.
The nurse sat down beside him.
# * *
Suddenly from the special ward—a small
room, containing two beds, situated at the further
end of the main ward—the crash of a falling body
was heard (by the nurse and myself, at any rate),
followed immediately by a furious pounding on
the floor. “Jack” was the owner of the body;
“ Old Dad ” was the pounder on the floor.
, _ “Jack” was a burly young man who had been
injured in the head by the bursting of a boiler.
“ Old Dad ” was laid up with a broken leg which
prevented him from moving with celerity, and
also suffered from some affection of the throat
which kept him from raising his voice above a
hoarse whisper. The direst part of the complica-
tion —to “ Old Dad ” and the night nurse—was sup-
plied by ‘ ‘ Old Dad ” himself. Nothing could rid him
of the belief that “Jack” —who certainly had a
curious craze for falling out of his own bed in the
dead of night and rolling over the floor in the
direction of “Old Dad’s” bed —cherished a furtive
but implacable desire to murder him.
A faint wake of light along the ceiling marked
the progress of the nurse, candle in hand, down
the ward.
“Jack ” was put to bed again, and all was quiet
once more.
* * •
And the hours of the night went on.
The moon in her course passed from window to
window down the long northern side of the ward.
And as she passed she threw a broad band of
lustre on each bed in the line of her light. There
were two faces she touched which she would never
touch again—the face of the poor, little, flippant,
light-hearted jockey-boy, and the face of the man
who was described as “ the new-case.”
The clock struck four and the nurse arose
softly from her chair and began to make the
beds. This bed-making is a simple operation
as conducted in the hospital. The nurse slips off
the quilt, puts a clean sheet in its place, draws the
(upper) soiled sheet from under the clean one, and
replaces the quilt. Voild tout I The patient is
not uncovered for a moment during the process.
The withdrawing of the under sheet is quite as
simple and modest an operation, but need not be
described.
I heard a sound of growling, in a cracked fal-
setto brogue, from a bed occupied by an old
countryman of my own who had, I believe, been
brought ixxto the hospital on the day previous,
suffering from soxne slight injuries obtained
through being run over by, I fancy, a hearse. And
the following was something like the conversation
which took place between him and the nurse :
“Now let be, young ’ooman, let be.”
“But I must do my duty.”
“I’m ould enough to be yer grandfather, ye
hussy, and I won’t allow ye to dhrag the clothes
atf me.”
“ I’m not going to drag them off you if you- .”
“Let be, 1 tell you agin. It’ll be less throuble
to you, and less thrial to me if you do. I’m ould,
and I’m cowld, and I won’t have the clothes
dhragged aff me—so ye can put that in yer pipe
and shmoke it, me gyurl.”
The nurse at this juncture remarked that if he
would not allow her to make the bed quietly she
would report him to the doctor.
“ Och, is it the doother ?” he said, with pitying
irony. And then, addressixxg the ward, and the
world outside, and all created space, he repeated
in a tone of shrill sarcasm, “ I report yez to the
docther, she sez ! Report me !, Why” (dropping
his voice to the tone of one who might be address-
ing a corpse, which he despised, buried in a deep
grave), “if ye say another word,me gyurl, I’ll re-
port ye ! The docther knows. me, let me tell ye„
He was house-docther whin 1 was here beforo-ih
this very same hospital, twinty-siven years/age.
What do ye say to that, now ?” r j / T
The doctor of whom the poor old man was,
speaking had been dead over terx|years. The nurse
whispered in his ear (so she told me afterwards)
that there was a patient dying in a bed lower down
the ward, and the old man was as docile as a doll
in a moment.
* * *
The chill air preluding the dawn came
through the window of the ward. The nurse was
by the side of the dyixxg man. I suppose that she
and I were the only persons in the ward, or in the
world, who knew that he was dying.
He died—it is a dreadful thing to say, but it is
true—cursing and blaspheming, and yet in posses-
sion of his senses, so far as could be judged by his
comprehension of things around him.
The nurse asked him if he had a message to
leave for his wife.
“ Tell her to go to H—l, where I’m going,” he
replied.
I had heard of such death-beds before, but was
never before, and never desire to be again, so near
to one of the kind as I was then. I remember the
case of a woman who was regarded ,as a saint by
the members of her sect, and by herself and her
family as a mother in Israel, and by all outside as
a good and pure woman. She died, with all her
family and friends gathered around her, stating
that she was in her right mind, making careful
disposition of her property—and utterly abjuring
not only all that she had professed (and wxthout
hypocrisy) to believe in, but openly regretting that
she had lived a virtuous life, and usxng language
too hoxribly vile to be conceivable as coming from
the mouth of a woman—least of all a dying
woman.
* * *
In the grey dawn two men, clad in white
canvas suits, came into the ward carxying between
them something that looked like a very long
trunk.
They stopped beside the bed surrounded by the
dark-red screen. The lid of the trunk was lifted,
there was a slight noise behind the screen, the
trunk was closed again, and the men walked away
with it. The screen was then folded up and put
aside. The bed was empty.
* # #
When a man dies in his own bed, in his
own house, with weeping friends gathered around
him, death takes the form of a solemn and almost
singular visitation. A lonely death in the bush,
under the sky, with no man near, is, as an idea,
full of tragic majesty. But tlxere is neither
solemnity nor majesty about death in a hospital.
It is a matter of business, of ordinary routine —as
is, of course, natural and to be expected. One
goes to a hospital either to get well or die —and to
do one thing or the other with as little delay as
possible, because other people are waiting to be
served.
The wife, now a widow, of the new case came
to the ward early in the morning to ask about her
husband. The nurse told her how it was with
him. She trembled a little, and hid her face in
her hands for a moment, but took the blow bravely,
like the brave little woman she was.
“Did he —did he leave any message for me?”
she enquired with a break in her voice.
The nurse looked her squarely in tlxe eyes and
lied nobly. “Yes,” she said, “he died praying
that God would take care of you.”
And it was day once more in Ward Z.
V. J. DALEY.
That Swag.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Western train had just arrived at Redfern
Railway-station with a lot of ordinary passengers
and one swagxnan.
He was short, and stout, and bow-legged, and
freckled, and sandy. He had red hair and small,
twinkling, grey eyes, and—what often goes with
such things—the expression of a born comedian.
He was dressed in a ragged, well-washed print
shirt, an old black waistcoat with a calico-back;
a pair of cloudy moleskins —patched at the knees
and held up by a plaited greenhide belt buckled
loosely round his hips ; a pair of well-worn, fuzzy
blucher boots, and a soft felt hat, green with age,
and with no brim worth mentioning, and no crown
to speak of. He swung a swag on to the platform,
shouldered it, reached out a billy and water-bag ;
and then went to see about getting a sheep-dog out
of the dog-box.
Five minutes later he appeared on the edge of
the cab-platform, with an anxious-looking cattle-
dog crouching against his legs, and one end of the
chain in his hand. He eased down the swag
against a post, turned his face to the city, tilted
his hat forward, and scratched the well-developed
back of his head with a little finger. He seemed
undecided which track to take.
“ Cab, sir !”
The swagman turned slowly and regarded
“ cabby ” with a quiet sort of grin.
“ Now, do I look as if I want a cab ?”
“ Well, why not? No harm, anyway—l thought
you might want a cab.”
Swaggy scratched his head, reflectively.
“Well,” he said, “you’re the first man that
thought so these ten years. What should I want
a cab for ?”
“ To go where you’re going, of course.”
“ Do I look knocked up ?”
“ I didn’t say you did.”
“ And I didn’t say you said I did. . . . Now,
I’ve been on the track this five yeai's. I’ve tramped
two thousan’ miles since last Chris’raas, and I don’t
see why I can’t tramp the last mile. Do you
think my old dog wants a cab ?”
The dog shivered and whimpered ; he seemed
to want to get away from the crowd.
“But, then, you see, you ain’t going to carry
that swag through the streets, are you ? ” asked
the cabman.
“Why not ? Who’ll stop me ? There ain’t ho
law agixx it, I b’lieve?”
“ But, then, you see, it don’t look well, you
know.”
“ Ah ! I thought we’d get to it at last.”
The “ trav’ler ” up-ended his bluey against his
knee, gave it an affectionate pat, and then
straightened himself up and looked fixedly at the
cabman.
“Now, look here !” he said, sternly and impres-
sively, “can you see anything wrong with that old
swag o’ mine ? ”
It was a stout, dumpy swag, with a red blanket
outside, patched with blue, and the edge of a blue
blanket showed in the inner rings at the end. The
swag might have been cleaner; it might have been
newer; it might have been hooped with decent
stx-aps, instead of bits of clothes-line and green-
hide —but otherwise there was nothing the mattei
with it- as swags go.
“I’ve huinped that old swag for years,” con-
tinued the bushman; “ I’ve carried that old swag
thousands of- miles —as that old dog knows—an’
no one ever bothered about ‘ the look of it ’—or ol
me —or of my old dog, neither ; and do you think
I’m going to be ashaxned of that old swag, for :•
cabby or anyone else ? Do you think I’m going U
study anybody’s feelings ? No one ever studied
mine ! I’m in two minds to summon you for usir.v
insulting language towards me I”
He lifted the swag by the twisted towel which
served for a shoulder-strap, swung it into the cab
got in himself, and Hauled the dog after him. ‘
“You can drive me sdmewhere where I can leave
my swag and dog while 1 ! get some decent clothe*
to see a tailor in,” he said to the cabman. “My
old dog ain’t used to cabs, you see.”
Then he added, reflectively: “I drove a cal
myself, once, for five years in Sydney; ”
HENRY LAWSON.


Larry .
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The world, I know, is still as fair
As ever it has been ;
As blithe in Springtime is the air 5
The grass is still as green ;
The sun shines bright as e’er it shone;
All pleasant things abide :
But half my joy in life is gone,
Since Larry Doran died.
With early friends who die our youth
Dies, too, and each young dream.
Thus unto most of us, in sooth,
Dead friends the dearest seem.
In evTy graveyard, the world o’er,
Each white memorial stone
Marks the last resting-place of more
Than, ah, the dead alone.
A gipsy in a
Was Larry, rest his soul!
But city ways he held in scorn.
And civilised control:
As through the veins of Primal Man,
Through his ? in rhythmic flood,
To lilting, roving measure ran
The old nomadic blood.
His was the gay philosophy
That sunshine and sweet air
Their lovers teach, and his the free
Bohemian scorn of care.
His, too, the Wit that springs to birth
By social hearths at night;
As playful as the flames its mirth,
Its hues as rich and bright.
The bravest, simplest, best of souls
Was he ; a bearded child—
Too fond, perhaps, of flowing bowls
And midnight wassail wild;
Great-hearted as the day, from marge
To marge of its sky-wall—
The marvel was a heart so large
Should be so light withal.
When, blue as mom, the lilac blooms
Broke forth from purple bud,
And young gums lifted crimson plumes,
Like spear-blades dipped in blood,
And from each graceful pepper-tree
The coral beads did hang;
Then gaily, swag on shoulder, he
The song of roving sang.
His dream was Riches to amass,
And he, in mining phrase,
The diggings followed, but, alas,
In later, poorer days.
Erom Palmer, in the hot Ear North,
To Snowy River cold
He roamed; the gold his luck brought forth
Was ever fairy gold.
No man more sanguine could you find
Beneath the blue sky’s cope;
Pandora’s Box was, to his mind,
A sea-chest packed with hope.
Each new-found Gully, fresh-struck Elat,
Bathed in his fancy’s glow,
Became another Ballarat,
Or else a Bendigo.
And I went with him, once upon
A time —long past, ah me !
How gaily on that morning shone
The sun ! how gay were we !
With swags strapped tight, and pipes alight,
And billy-cans m hand—
There were, that mom, few spirits bright
As ours in all the land.
The merry heart that goes all day
Was his : through shine and shade,
Like sunbeams glancing through the gray-
Green leaves his fancies played.
Of yams and jests, and songs and glees,
He had a wondrous store ;
Sure, laughter large as ours the trees
Had never heard before !
The kookaburra, keen of ken,
The wild wag of the wood,
Would gravely listen, now and then,
As though he understood.
And, 10, the feather’d humorist rich,
Of tail all innocent,
Would shake with laughter, like to
which
A giant might give vent!
Thus gaily all day long we
tramped,
And, when the night drew
near,
Then by a burning 1
encamped
How merry was our
cheer !
And ever, in the hush
profound,
When Larry chose to
sing,
The dim, mysterious
Bush around
Seemed darkly listen-
ing.
When sundowners by
chance we met,
No word at first we
spoke-
The true sundowner’s
etiquette,
A mute and solemn
joke.
But when our swags were
on the ground,
Ourselves the swags
beside,
We calmly filled our pipes all
round,
And gravely smoked —and lied.
What cared we for the world that drive#
Poor souls to madness then ?
What for the cares that fill the lives
Of city-prisoned men ?
I pass them by, these men, each day ;
I hear their fetters clink ;
The world’s work must be done, they say—
’Tis done too much, I think.
The city is the Home of Greed,
Where Mammon has his throne;
And some on hearts of others feed,
And more upon their own.
The friends that once I used td meet
Therein, no more I see :
The very stones that pave the street
Like gravestones seem to me.
I hold it true that in that hour
When cherished Dreams depart,
And Life’s, onoe-honeyed wine grows sour,
And callous grows the heart,
And confidence gives place to doubt—
’Tie better to be dead—
And Larry Doran died without
A grey hair in his head.
There is a star that twinkles through
The air at evenglow :
I think it is the world whereto
Gay souls like Larry’s go.
And, by good fortune, I may see
Him there, or—who shall say ?
May meet him roving carelessly
Along the Milky Way.
C.R.
THE
LUMBERING
OF
GANCY M'LAY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“No! Football ain’t what it used to be. You
can’t touch a man now without ’aving a free-kick
give agin yer, though I ain’t played meself now
for this six year. I got jack when we was done
by the Star—the Star o’ the Flat, y’know. I
belonged to the Oyster Bay United. The Star
was a push yer never could trust; they was as
artful as a ’atful of monkeys, and yer couldn’t
guess what their lay was. The fust match with
’em, we ’ad ’em fairly done; dead to the world,
they was, at the end o* the third quarter, and
their followers ’ad their tongues ’anging out like
’sif they was dying. They only ’ad one man
among ’em that was worth a place—that was
Pippo O’Shea. I never seen his like on a football
field, an’ I kid meself I know a bit about the
game. ’E was only a thin slab of a bloke, not
more’n ten stone, but, my oath, he could play.
Talk about glue on yer ’ands, why, do me, the
ball used ter foller ’im like a little dawg. ’E was
everywhere at once, ’e’d run and dodge like a
grey’oun’, and I never seen anyone in the same
street’s ’im at a ’igh mark. If Pippo was alive
now he could knock three quid a week outer any
senior club for a monte. He died in the ’orspital
’bout a year ago. Too much colonial.
“Whatyer say? ’Bout the match? Oh, yes!
We was level in goals, but we ’ad ’em under the
whip, and they saw it was a blue duck unless
something ’appened, so Pet M'Gander, their wing
man, fixed a pin in the toe of ’is boot, without us
seeing, and when the ball come near ’im ’e roosted
at it, and, o’ course, caved it in like a rotten egg.
Some of our boys up and started scrapping, but I
see that there might be a show to win the game
yet. There was another match going on close to
ns, a crowd o’ nippers they was, ‘ average age six-
teen,’ as they says on the notice-board, so I makes
for their ground and I cops their ball and brings
it back to our umpire. ‘ Bounce it!’ I says. But
a kid from the other match comes up. ‘ What
Tighter you got to collar our ball ?’ says he. ‘We
got to finish this match,’
says I, as civil as could
be. * Yer won’t with our
ball,’ says he, getting
nasty, so I stoushed
’im. Then our bar-
raokers started
fightin’ with
the youngsters
and wegot a
M
LARRIKIN (Highland) SCHOTTISCHE.
chance to go on with the game. Every now and
then one of them ’d cop the ball and try an’ get
away with it, but we alius got it back. We ’ad
no luck, though ; the rest we ’ad seemed to do the
Star good, Pippo played like a demon, and it
finished up without either side scorin’ any more.
“We made up our minds we’d ’ave ’em set next
match and we readied up a push o’ barrackers
what’d be good enough to rush the ground if we
was gettin’ done, and we put Gancy M’Kay into
the team. But yer can’t never make a cert o’
anything though ; we thought the game was to be
played off sportsmanlike; we never dreamt the
Star’d turn pup on us the way they did. Did yer
ever run acrost Gancy M‘Kay? No? Well, ’e
was a big, lumbering bloke, only about 18 year old
then, but ’e weighed 13 stone, all muscle, and ’e
was as strong as a horse. That’s why we stuck
’im ’n the team; ’e couldn’t play football a little
bit, didn’t hardly know the game from shinty,
but if ’e got ’is maulers on a man that man went.
We was goin’ to put ’im on to Pippo O’Shea so’s
’e’d send ’im a good toss on ’is napper at the start
o’ the game as’d knock all the stuffin’ outer ’im
for that day. We know the rest of ’em wasn’t in
it with us, and so bein’ pretty comfortable about
the result we put a bit on it.
“ When we got on the ground, the day o’ the
match, the Star’s push was there and about forty
barrackers, ’arf o’ them ours, pitching to the
umpire; we picked on Pat M'Carthy, the pug, for
umpire, so’s there’d be no bluffing or barging over
his decisions, for there wasn’t one of the Star or
us mug enough to lip Pat. It was before the
junior clubs paid their umpires, but we each give
’im a half-a-caser. ‘Jacko,’ says I to the Star’s
captain, when we tossed up, ‘ it’s understood that
there’s to be no fightin’ to-day, but football
straight and square.’ ‘Rightoh !’says’e; ‘that’s
what we wants. Don’t mix yer games. Football,
if yer like, and fightin’, if yer like, but one at a
time.’ Then we goes to strip off, and I looks
around for Gancy, but never a sign could I see of
him. ‘ Where’s Gancy ?’ I arst of one of our
barrackers. *1 dunno,’ ’e says; ‘I seen
’im in Rokeby-street this mornin’, but ’e
ain’t ’ere.’ I ran around the field, arskin’
everyone, but I couldn’t get a hinter where ’e was.
It was close on time, too. ‘Get behind yer
men,’ calls Pat M'Carthy to me while I was on
my wrong side tryin’ to find out where Gancy
was. Yer remember they useter kick off then,
and I got back and the ball was started in play.
I can’t tell yer anything about the game, it was
the sickest I ever see, and it fairly turned me
up. Gaucy
never come
all the after-
noon, and
at ’arf-time
the boys was
all callin’
’im all the
blessed
swines they
could think
of, and
blamin’ ’im
IPRWATf BAR |
ARAB: “ Say, mister, can yer squeeze threepenn'orth o’ whisky out
o' yer nose? ”
for the Star being two goals ahead, but I shut ’em
up. ‘ Don’t take a derry on a bloke without yer get
the straight griff,’ I told ’em ; ‘ I don’t think he
done it intentional, but if ’e ’as then dieken to
’im,’ says I, ‘ and I’ll make one with any of yer to
have sly outer ’im.’
“The second ’arf was worst than th i first;
Pippo O’Shea ran rings round our chaps.
‘Never mind the free-kick,’ I sent word round.
‘lf yer can git yer ’ands on Pippo lay ’im out,’
but, do me brown, ’e was as slippery’s an eel and
a bit too cunning for us all. I got a ’old of ’im by
the neck just near our goal and slung ’im jus., as ’e
rose for a mark. It was a toss tliat’d ’a’ broken
nine men’s necks outer ten, but ’e turned as ’e come
down and fell on ’is ’ands and knees as right as
rain. Then ’e grinned at me and ’eld out ’is ’ands
for the free kick as confident as could be, and
punted the ball through’s if ’e’d just come on the
ground. Seven to four they kicked up to the
middle o’ the last quarter, then I see it was all up
with us and I give our barrackers the orfice and
the scrappin’ started. But we got the worst o’
that, too, for Pat M'Carthy took their part. D’ye
see that mark on my jaw? That’s where he got
a straight left ’orne. I can feel it still when the
cold weather starts.
“ And d’ye know how they pinned us ? It
makes me wet now when I think o’ it. They
dropped to the dodge o’ putting Gancy in the
team (I think some o’ our blokes must a’ been
skitin’ about the way ’e was going to put Pippo)
and they faked up a scrap between ’im and one o’
their barrackers as ’e was coming down to the
match. The feller says to Gancy, ‘So yer goin’
ter play for the United. D’ye think ye’ll win?’
‘My oath!’ says Gancy, ‘we’ll do ’em bad.’
‘ They can’t ’ave much o’ a team though,’ says the
bloke, beginning ’is funny business, ‘or you
wouldn’t get a game.’ This maddened Gancy,
for ’e rather fancied ’is carcase as a footballer,
though, as I told yer, he couldn’t play for apples,
so’e says, ‘That’s what you think, is it? Well,
there’s some things I can do if I can’t play foot-
ball.’ ‘P’raps,” says the bloke, ‘But fightin’
ain’t one of’em.’ So Gancy plugs ’im and they
goes at it ’ell for leather in Smith-street. Of
course, it didn’t last long and a couple o’ copmen
soon run ’em both in. Then Gancy seen through
the game and ’e tried to get ’em to let ’im go
but not them, so like a blooming fool ’e started
tlirowin’ off at ’em, so when he wanted them to
’unt up bail for ’im yer can betcher life they
didn’t burst their ’arts chasing round,
“It was a mean, contempable dodge for the
Star ter work off on a club what’d alius treated
’em fair, and who only wanted to play a ’onest,
manly game and let the best side win, and it fairly
disgusted me with football, straight, it did. It’s
gettin’ low, I thinks, and so I tossed it up. But
it was good while it lasted; it’s a fine game still;
but it ain’t what it used to be, not by a long ways,
So long. Gerrup.—Milkaieough 1 ”
YARKAMAN.
Westward Ho!
(FROM THE FIREMAN’S POINT OF VIEW.)
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It may seem all bright an’ joyful to you chaps in
the saloon
Who are feedin’ on the knowledge you’ll reach
Hannan’s pretty soon,
And the sooperfloous deck ’ands, an’ the cursin’
swearin’ mate,
An’ the squad o’ tucker-jerkers—which them
stewards all I ’ate—
But us firemen raisin’ ’ell right from the Schanck
to Moreton Bay,
Gettin’ racin’ run from this old tub to make the
dam line pay—
We’re ancient cocks at thirty, an’ our pay’s re-
duced to seven,
Though when we got nine quid a month this
wastin’ job was Y eaven—
Oh, ’twas ’eaven for us clinkers,
An’ in those times we were drinkers ;
But now with baker’s f am’lies an’ with two
quid off our draw—
When the skipper rings the bell,
An’ we fire our floatin’ hell,
We start eight red-hot watches for but grub an*
kids ashore.
An’ the owners an’ their union who ’ave got on us
the grip,
An’ brought us down to seven a month —why !
we’d give a bloomin’ trip
For every hour they'd do below a-sweatin’ like the
sea
When it strikes this crawlin’ tub an’ bursts in
drops upon her lee ;
We’d like to see ’em sweatin’ double tides to win
a race,
An’ the second engineer a-bullyin’ them to make
the pace;
Or to see ’em even greasin’, with their bellies
black an’ stark,
A-gropin’ for the bearin’s in the smotherin’, oily
dark —
Oh, we’d like to see ’em there,
When the mate begins ter swear
At us clinkers emptyin’
windward ashes
blown again on
deck ;
Oh, they’d sicken
of the smell
Of this rank an’
floatin’ hell,
An’ they’d let the
hooker founder an’
become a blasted
wreck.
An’ yer try to sink yer
sorrers in a dozen
quarts o’ beer,
An’ the heat in thirty
seconds makes yer
''* head an’ eyesight
clear—
You ain’t even got the
opshun of a good
an’ ’olesome booze,
For the fire leaps out
an’ dips you in a
clammy, weakenin’
ooze.
An’ the owners curse the captain for not makin’
faster trips,
An’ he curses at the engineer, who comes straight
below an’ rips
All the blue an’ stiflin’ curses he was ever taught
or told
At us wretches breathin’ sobs, an’ swelterin’ in the
molten hold;
An’ we curses at the trimmer,
An’ we ’opes his eyes ’ull simmer
In the deep eternal stokehole where the watches
never go—
An’ the trimmer blasts the coal
Havin’ no inferior soul
For to curse at in the Crowd of graded despots
down below.
Oh ! they’re right enough an’ rumbo, are the sailor-
men on deck,
For they never do a ’and’s turn but to keep the
ship from wreck;
An’ they scrub the rails like slaveys, an’ you hear
the skipper swear
When you put some coal-dust on that rail a-comin’
up for air;
An’ they ’ave the women on the bridge with a
blind man at the wheel—
Which that self-same flirtin’ on the bridge ’as
crippled many a keel-*
An’you hear the mate say, “Yes, Miss, a good
run—the wind is aft,”
An’ us clinkers dyin’ cause there ain’t a breath to
help our graft;
For when the wind’s ahead,
Up on deck the talk is red;
But our ventilators take it all, an’ we've an easy
go ;
But a wind that’s right abaft
Calls for double graft an’ craft,
An’ it’s ’eaven to you salooners, an’ it’s hell to us
below.
So you boys go round the Leeuwin for a country
growin’ gold ?
An’ we’re sweatin’ ’ere at thirty, an’ we’re blood-
less, an’ we’re old,
With but the little hope that all our coal won’t be
half slate
Which we fired with in the strike-time for to keep
our sailin’ date.
We used ter hope some angel chap ’ud smash the
engine gauge
That’s a tell-tale on our firin’, .but we’ve lost the
hope with age;
But you’re better off, an’ younger, an’ you’re sure
to strike a few,
While we aged young ’uns stay below to drive this
hooker’s screw.
An’, maybe, when we’ve a hearse,
The engines ’ull reverse,
An* our ghosts ’ull stay on deck an’ join the cabin
mess an’ so—
While the owners who are dead
Till pray for wind ahead,
A-firin’ up for ever in the hungry hell below.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


WHY NOT?
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
Do you remember, old fellow, our parting
some time ago at Singapore, when we went our
different ways, to East and to West, to barbarism
and to civilisation, each bound on the same errand ?
We were full up then of Charters Towers and of
Gympie, had been cleaned out at Cloncurry, but
two months on the blazing hills at Croydon had
given us our fares and a little over, and there we
were. Once a gold-hunter, always a gold-hunter.
Sustained by the hope that springs eternal in the
prospector’s breast, you were bound for payable
leads in the territory of the Sultan of Pahang,
while I was travelling West to see if the man who
had floated the Great Ebor Gold Mining Co.—
capital .£5OOO, no liability—could ruffle it with
the men of London city, and perchance place a
mine or two with a public over-anxious to grow
rich.
Since then our paths have been always diverging
and our quest has been the same. The gold was
not in Pahang, but the fever was ; and a sceptical
British public, 44 got at ” once or twice, would not
look at my mines, though I had brought them rich
specimens in a sack. We keep hoping all the
time. You may be hobbling your horse and
making your fire on a flat concealing its thousands,
and I may awake to-morrow in this dingy, dirty
London to find a multitude clamouring for sound,
speculative mining investments. Who knows
when the patch may be struck or the boom begin?
But, however that may be, we shall at least have
lived our life out and not have droned it away.
We parted ■ . th i P. and 0. boat Hector, home-
ward bound.
Do you re-
member the
day ? A blaz-
ing hot sun
(how I long for
it now), a sky
of one dead
blue, and the
city white and
dusty an d
crowded in'
the distance.
Seated on the
after-deck we
smoked our
kst smoke to-
gether and
watched the
passengers
tanglingthem-
s elves and
their friends
into a state of
confusion.
S ingapo re
merchants,
agitated mo-
thers, little
children, na-
tive nurses,
Malay porters
and Chinese
traders, fare-
wells, wel-
comes, objurgations and hysterics. What a
babel! and why, oh why, do most people
make such fools of themselves at such
moments? We watched all this for a time,
and then—our attention was drawn to the woman
in grey. It was the contrast, probably, that first
attracted our notice, fbr, like ourselves, she was
unmoved by the turmoil. Seated on a deck-chair,
quietly reading, or watching the passers to and
fro with a lazy, half-contemptuous smile, what did
we see ? Height, one- would say, about sft. 6in.
(rather tall for a woman), large dark eyes, color-
less face, expressive mouth, figure good but
slender ; age, perhaps, 24 ; dress, grey, cool and per-
fect. Maid, wife or widow, we wondered —and
then our speculations were broken by the parting
bell, and you went your way and I went mine.
Of all that has happened since, you must wait to
hear till we meet again ; but I cannot forbear to
tell you a little now. Life on board an ocean
steamer, who can endure, at the time, with
patience, or think of afterwards without regret ?
After all, there are only three things to be done.
Some come out with heavy volumes and a pretence
of work —they are only frauds seeking an excuse
for sleep; other few harry the unoffending with
suggestions of ship’s cricket or quoits, or such like
inanities; but the wise treat them with contempt.
The life is so placid and monotonous that the
strong man must have one of the strong passions.
He must gamble, drinkj make love, or fight like a
berserker with some idiot for whom he has con-
ceived an uncontrollable hatred. As you know,
I am little or nothing of a ladies’ man. It is not my
line. Besides, have I not a wife somewhere, who
knocked all that nonsense out of me long ago ?
However, I can play most games of cards not a
little, and watch the moon come over the foretop
with any man who ever paced a deck (there were
not many who could see us through a long night
in the good old times), and so the days passed not
unpleasantly. The little smoking - room was
always full, the long 44 pegs” went down well in
the hot morning, and the short ones equally well
in the cooler evening, while we were making for
Colombo.
One night, after dinner, I sat down on deck
next to the woman in grey. I had not been able to
help hearing about her. Name, Mrs. Sabine, the
wife of a year and a widow 12 months, returning
to England to live ; undoubtedly wealthy and cer-
tainly sufficiently attractive to cause her sex to
make ill-natured remarks. I had noticed her
often, but we had never spoken more than a pass-
ing word—and yet I had watched her a little.
Always the same, calm and impassable, always
exhaling the same faint odour of opoponax,
usually seated on the most comfortable chair in
the most comfortable corner of the deck, reading
or talking. She treated the two or three young men
who had constituted themselves her admirers with
a suavity and indifference which would not have
flattered them had they been older —a cold woman,
one would have said, casually looking on, but
those large, dark eyes betrayed her. The eyes are
the windows of a woman’s soul, and it was looking
into those that I thought I saw daylight—or was
it night ?
As I sat down that evening I had not noticed at
first who was next to me. We were at the far end
of the deck, and the moon, like a disc of gold, was
only just rising from the edge distant water.
Smoking in the half-light, I sat watching my
companion, who was gazing seaward. It was one
of those times when silence is the best of all talk,
which only the utter fool kills with words. Pre-
sently I heard murmurs in the distance, and my
name sounded familiarly in my ears, with uncon i
plimentary adjectives attached. It was the first
time I had not turned up for the usual game, and
the regular party were wroth.
Mrs. Sabine looked round.
44 Your friends,” she said, 44 are calling you.’
44 To myself I said, 44 My friends be d d,”
but aloud—
-44 Thanks, but I know when I am well off.”
With a half smile— 44 Do you consider yourself
well off now ? ”
44 That,” I said, 44 remains to be seen.”
To the good all things are good, but some are
better than others, and I did not regret the cards.
We talked and talked in the shade of the deck-
house till the lights went out, when, handing my
companion her wraps, I went to make my peace
with the justly-indignant gamblers. It was the
only time I had disappointed them, and, except
the usual greetings, I had no further word with
Mrs. Sabine till one morning the ship swung
round in the Bay of Colombo.
* # #
When an ocean steamship stops at a port,
whatever other piece of imbecility you may be
guilty of, never go ashore with a party—that is,
a party of more than one. Insult the captain,
quarrel with the chief steward, or stay on deck
while they are coaling, if you like —anything is pre-
ferable. They are always of two kinds, these
parties. One set, the least objectionable, in-
vades the principal hotel, drinks unlimited
whisky, and thereafter proceeds to bargain
with and probably insult the native trader
with loud chaff and ungentle satire. The other,
and more objectionable set, hoists you forthwith
into a hired vehicle, and, with much jolting over
bad roads, rushes you from museum to church and
from church to museum, landing you back in the
evening a helpless wreck, with only the satisfac-
tion of knowing that nothing (in the guide-book)
has been left unseen, and that the whole is a con-
fused jumble in your mind. Therefore, on these
occasions, go always alone or with some congenial
JohM uUßQ’i'o "
rnpimmH
■':!
’
THE MOKE’S REVENGE.—No. 1.
spirit—a ship’s officer if you can.—even as in the
bush we were wont to go.
I knew all this as I stood on the deck watching
the red, white and green of Colombo in the
distance while perspiring passengers were pouring
over the side of the ship. Mrs. Sabine was stand-
ing near, as calm and imperturbable as ever.
4 4 Are you not going ashore ?” I asked.
44 Hardly, with this crowd,” she replied; 44 in
the afternoon for a while, perhaps.”
I made a suggestion.
44 The ship does not sail till to-morrow. There
is plenty of time for sight-seeing, should you care
about it, which I very much doubt. Let us have
lunch on board and drive to Mount Lavinia after-
wards. We can dine there and drive back in the
moonlight. Will you come ?”
She agreed.
You know, I daresay, that old drive through
the city and under the cocoa-nut palms to Mt.
Lavinia, and the stone-built hotel in the garden
on the hill, overlooking the sea. How many Aus-
tralians and returning Indians and globe-trotters
generally have made the pilgrimage, lunching
in the large hall and bargaining with the
native dealer in the broad verandah afterwards !
That afternoon the drive seemed pleasanter than
ever, although familiar enough. There had been
rain to lay the usual red dust and it was not too
hot. When we arrived we found that the mob of
sightseers had swept through the place like a
cyclone, and were off in another direction. The
gardens were deserted as we strolled through them;
and the wily Hindoo, who usually possessed the
front of the hotel, had packed up his wares and
was departing with a satisfied smile. Our friends
of the Hector had evidently not got the best of
that deal.
But they were gone, thank goodness ; gone with
their feeble jokes, noise, and idiotic attempt at
bargaining with men who could buy and sell them
twenty times an hour. We were left in peace.
When we returned from a stroll along the beach
our dinner was laid in the hall and we were alone.
It must have been a good dinner as Eastern din-
ners go, and the wine was more than fair, but
Mrs. Sabine made me forget both, for her eyes
had never seemed so bright—nor had she ever
talked like that before. I thought that at last I
had got to the real woman, but I had not—quite.
There are some days or nights of which the
memory remains always, and this was one.
Lounging on the broad verandah, the sea was
stretched before us, a sheet of silver in the bright
moonlight. A boat or two were in the distance,
with the thin smoke of steamers making their way
south round Point de Galle; on either side masses
of palms and ferns, so that we sat in the shade.
No sound was to be heard but the wash of the
waves on the shore and the rustling of the foliage
caused by the faint breeze that stole across from
the sea. For a longtime I sat silent, smoking and
thinking—thinking how all our pleasant times
must have an end—thinking of all the things a
man will think under the influence of a night like
that —and the pale face near me with the dark
eyes looked handsomer than ever in the faint
light.
Bah ! what was the good of thinking! The
cigar was finished and the evening done, the Cin-
galese driver was probably getting drunk in the
village, and it was time we started. As I moved
from the lounge my hand rested upon Mrs.
Sabine’s. Neither of us moved for a few moments
—then I spoke:
44 A perfect day and a perfect night—finished.”
No answer.
44 It is hard that we should have to go back
now.”
44 Why need we? ”
It was a whisper so faint that I hardly heard it,
but as I bent my head forward to catch the words
1 heard again almost inaudibly—
44 Why need we ? ”
* • *
I had been on board an hour or so next
morning when Mrs. Sabine joined the ship. She
had been staying with some friends in Colombo.
From that day till I left the ship at Naples I do
not think that we exchanged more than a dozen
words. That is all.
* * *
That is not all. Only this morning I came
across the following notice in the paper: — 44 At
Church, Margaret, widow of the late Chas.
Sabine, of Singapore, to , of . No
cards.” That, perhaps, is all.
GEORGE DANT.
THE AMATEUR RIDER.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Him going to ride for us ! Him —with the pants
and the eyeglass and all.
Amateur ! don’t he just look it —it’s twenty to one
on a fall.
Boss must be gone off his head to be sending our
steeplechase crack
Out over fences like these with an object like that
on his back.
Ride ! Don’t tell me he can ride ! With his pants
just as loose as balloons
How can he sit on his horse ! and his spurs like a
pair of harpoons;
Ought to be under the Dog Act, he ought, and be
kept off the course.
Fall! Why, he’d fall off a cart, let alone off a
steeplechase-horse.
Yessir ! the ’orse is all ready—l wish you’d have
rode him before;
Nothing like knowing your horse, sir, and this
chap’s a terror to bore;
Battleaxe always could pull, and he rushes his
fences like fun —
Stands off his jump twenty feet, and then springs
like a shot from a gun.
Oh, he can jump ’em all right, sir, you make no
mistake, ’e’s a toff;
Clouts ’em in earnest too, sometimes, you mind
that he don’t clout you off—
Don’t seem to mind how he hits ’em, his shins is
as hard as a nail,
Sometimes you’ll see the fence shake and the
splinters fly up from the rail.
All you can do is to hold him and just let him
jump as he likes,
Give him his head at his fences, and hang on like
death if he strikes ;
Don’t let him run himself out —you can lie third
or fourth in the race—
Until you clear the stone wall, and from that you
can put on the pace.
Fell at that wall once, he did, and it gave him a
regular spread,
Ever since that time he flies it —he’ll stop if you
pull at his head,
Just let him race—you can trust him —he’ll take
first-class care he don’t fall,
A.nd I think that’s the lot —but, remember, he
must have his head at the wall.
Well, he’s down safe as far as the start, and he
seems to sit on pretty neat,
Only his baggified breeches would ruinate any-
one’s seat —
They’re away—here they come—the first fence,
and he’s head over heels for a crown !
Good for the newchum, he’s over, and two of the
others are down!
•* , s •
THi^pVwDROPlNH
11CENJE& to seu sm m mm\ er<)
3#
THE MOKE’S REVENGE.—No. 2.
Now for the treble, my hearty—by Jove ! he can
ride, after all;
Whoop, that’s your sort —let him fly them ! He
hasn’t much fear of a fall.
Who in the world would have thought it ! And
aren’t they just going a pace ?
Little Recruit in the lead there will make it a
stoutly-run race.
Lord! But they’re racing in earnest —and down
goes Recruit on his head,
Rolling clean over his boy—it’s a miracle if he
ain’t dead.
Battleaxe, Battleaxe yet! By the Lord, he’s got
most of ’em beat —
Ho ! did you see how he struck, and the swell
never moved in his seat ?
Second time round, and, by Jingo ! he’s holding
his lead of ’em well;
Hark to him clouting the timber! It don’t seem to
trouble the swell.
Now for the wall—let him rush it. A thirty-foot
leap, I declare —
Never a shift in his seat, and he’s racing for home
like a hare.
What’s that that’s chasing him—Rataplan—regular
demon to stay !
Sit down and ride for your life now ! Oh, good,
that’s the style —come away !
Rataplan’s certain to beat you, unless you can give
him the slip;
Sit down and rub in the whalebone now — give him
the spurs and the whip !
Battleaxe, Battleaxe, yet—and it’s Battleaxe wins
for a crown;
Look at him rushing the fences, he wants to bring
t’other chap down.
Rataplan never will catch him if only he keeps on
his pins;
Now ! the last fence ! and he’s over it! Battleaxe,
Battleaxe wins !
Well, sir, you rode him just perfect—l knew from
the first you could ride.
Some of the chaps said you couldn’t, an’ I says
just like this a’ one side :
Mark me, I says, that’s a tradesman —the saddle
is where he was bred.
Weight! you’re all right, sir, and thank you ; and
them was the words that I said.
THE BANJO.
HE’D COME BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The yarn was all lies, I suppose ; but it
wasn’t bad. A city bushman told it, of course,
and he told it in the trav’lers’ hut.
44 As true’s God hears me I never meant to
desert her in cold blood,” he said. 44 We’d only
been married about two years, and we’d got
along grand together; but times was hard, and
I had to jump at the first chance of a job, and
leave her with her people, an’ go up-country.”
He paused and fumbled with his pipe until all
ears were brought to bear on him.
44 She was a beauty, and no mistake; she was
far too good for me— I often wondered how she
came to have a chap like me.”
He paused again, and the others thought over it
—and wondered, too, perhaps. 44 The joker ”
opened his lips to speak, but altered his mind
about it.
44 Well, I travelled up into Queensland, and
worked back into Victoria ’n South Australia, an’
I wrote home pretty reg’lar and sent what money
I could. Last I got down onto the South Western
Coast of South Australia—an’ there I got mixed
up with another woman—you know what that
means, boys ?”
Sympathetic silence.
44 Well, this went on for two years, and then
the other woman drove me to drink. You know
what a woman can do when the devil’s in her ?”
Sound between a sigh and a groan, from “Lally”
Thompson— 44 My oath,” he said, sadly.
44 You should have made it three years, Jack ;”
interposed the joker, 4 4 you said two years before.”
But he was suppressed.
44 Well, I got free of them both, at last —drink
and the woman, I mean ; but it took another—it
took a couple of years to pull myself straight ”
Here the joker opened his mouth again, but was
warmly requested to shut it.
44 Then, chaps, I got thinking. My con*
science began to hurt me, and—and hurt worse
every day—it nearly drove me to drink again.
Ah, boys, a man —if he is a man—can’t expect to
wrong a woman and escape scot-free in the end.
(Sigh from 44 Lally” Thompson.) It’s the one
thing that always comes home to a man, sooner or
later —you know what that means, boys.”
Lally Thompson : 44 My oath ! ”
The Joker: 44 Dry up yer crimson oath ! What
d' you know about women ? ”
Cries of 44 Order ! ”
44 Well,” continued the story-teller, 44 1 got
thinking. I heard that my wife had broken her
heart when I left her, and that made matters
worse. I began to feel very bad about it.
I felt mean. I felt disgusted with myself.
I pictured my poor ? ill-treated, little wife
and children in misery and poverty, and
my conscience wouldn’t let me rest night, or
day (Lally Thompsom seemed greatly moved).
so at last I
made up my
mind to be a
man, and
make —what’s
the word ?”
“Repara-
tion,” suggest-
ed the joker.
44 Yes, so I
slaved like a
nigger for a
year or so, got
a few pounds
together, and
went to find
my wife. I
found out that
she was living
in a cottage
i n Burwood,
Sydney, and
struggling
through the
winter on
what she’d
saved from the
money her
father left her.
44 1 got a
shave and
dressed up
quiet and de-
cent. I was
older - looking
and more sub-
dued like, and I’d got pretty grey in those few years
that I’d been making a fool of myself—and some-
how I felt rather glad about it —because I
reckoned she’d notice it first thing—she was
always quick at noticing things—and forgive me
all the quicker. Well, I waylaid the school kids
that evening, and found out mine—a little boy
and a girl—and fine kids they were. The girl took
after her mother, and the youngster was the dead-
spit o’ me. I gave ’em half-a-crown each and told
them to tell their mother that some one would
come when the sun went down.”
Bogan Bill nodded emphatically.
“So at sundown I went and knocked at the
door ; it opened, and there stood my little wife
looking prettier than ever—only careworn.
* * *
Long, impressive pause.
“Well, Jack, what did she do? ” asked Bogan.
“ She didn’t do nothing.”
* * *
44 Well, Jack, what did she say? ”
Jack sighed and straightened himself up: “ She
said—she said : 4 Well, so you’ve come back.’ ”
Painful silence.
44 Well, Jack, and what did you say ? ”
44 1 said 4 yes.’ ”
44 Well—and so you had ! ” said Tom Moonlight.
44 It wasn’t that, Tom,” said Jack sadly, and
wearily— “lt was the way she said it I ”
* * *
Lally Thompson rubbed his eyes : “ And
what did you do, Jack ? ” he asked gently,
44 1 stayed for a year, and then I deserted her
again—but I meant it that time.”
44 Ah, well ! It’s time to turn in.”
JOE SWALLOW.


S INCE NELLIE
CAME
TO LIVE
ALONG THE CREEK
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
My hut is built of stringy-bark, the window’s
calico,
The furniture, a gin-case, one bush-table and
a bunk ;
Thick as wheat on my selection does the tower-
ing timber grow,
And the stately blue-gums’ taproots to the
bedrock all are sunk ;
Then the ferns spring up like nettles,
And the ti-tree comes and settles
On my clearing if I spell-o for a week ;
But I work for love of labour
Since I’ve got a handy neighbour,
And Miss Nellie’s come to live along the creek.
Time was when Death sat by me, and he stalked
me through the trees ;
Then my arm was weak as water, and my
heart a weary thing ;
I was sullen as a wombat on such still, wan
days as *hese,
And my wedges all were rusty, and my axe
had lost its ring.
Then a fear like sickness bound me,
And I cursed the trees around me,
For quite hopeless seemed the struggle I’d
begun ;
And at night-time, cowed and sinking,
I would sit there thinking, thinking,
Gazing grimly down the barrels of my gun.
Then I felt the bush must crush me with its
dreadful brooding wings,
And its voices seemed to mock me till I
thought that I was mad
Like the mopoke, and the jackass, and the
other loony things,
For beside my old dog, Brumbie, not a living
mate I had.
Then each sapling was a giant,
And the stumps were all defiant,
And my friends were very few and far to seek;
But the bush is bright and splendid,
And my melancholy’s ended,
Since Miss Nellie came to live along the creek !
I would swear she was the sweetest if the world
was full of girls :
She’s as graceful as a sapling, and her waist
is neat and slim ;
She is dimpled o’er with smiling, and has wattle-
blossom curls,
And her eyes peep out like violets ’neath her
sun-hat’s jealous rim.
When I think I see her flitting
On the sun crowned hill, or sitting
'Neath the fern-fronds where the creek sleeps,
deep and cool,
Ho, my stroke is straight and steady,
And the white chips run and eddy,
And I laugh aloud at nothing, like a fool.
Now my axe rings like a sabre,
ami my heart exults
with pride
When the green gums
sweep the scrub
down, and they
thunder and J
rebound,
And then lie with
limbs all
shattered,
reaching
out on either side,
Like giants killed in battle,
with their faces to the
ground
Now the bush has many pleasures,
And a wondrous store of treasures,
And a thousand tales its eerie voices speak ;
But its strange night hushes, seeming
Sent to hire to mystic dreaming,
Have no terrors now—Miss Nellie’s on the creek.
1 am happy when the thunder humps and
bellows on the hill,
And the tall trees writhe and wrestle with
the furies of the gale,
Or when sunshine floods the clearing, and the
bushland is so still
That I hear the creek’s low waters tinkle,
tinkle on the shale.
In the thought that she is near me
There's a charm to lift and cheer me,
And a power that makes me mighty seems to
flow
From Miss Nellie’s distant coo-ey,
Or her twin lips red and dewy
When she comes by here, and shyly calls me
“Joe.”
She can work from dawn to nightfall, and look
handsome all the day ;
At her smile my garden flourished, and the
vines grew green and strong,
And the bush falls back before it, and it strikes
the scrub away,
For it lingers ever with me, and it stirs me
like a song.
Now I work on in all weathers,
And the logs are merest feathers,
Nor my heart nor yet my hand is ever weak,
And a higher thing my prize is
Than all else that life comprises—•
Pretty Nell, who’s come to live along the creek.
Melb.
EDWARD DYSON.
THEIR
LAST BATTLE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Geordie Spooner was a good Orangeman. Abou
the aims and objects of Orangeiam and its history
and traditions he bad very hazy ideas, but he was
satisfied that it was anti-Irish in the main, and as
such, was a proper organisation for an Englishman
and a good Protestant to belong to. Really,
Geordie was nob a good Protestant; he was a
hard-faced, hard-fighting, hard-drinking, profane
worldling, but he hated the Irish, “ the lower
class of Irish,” for no other reason than constitu-
tional bias. It is natural for a “Geordie,” a Tyne-
sider, to hate Irishmen and Oousinjacks ; they
have hated both ever since they sent them mis-
sionaries in “the olden times,” and the
(term of endearment) ate them. This missionary
tradition may not be historically correct, but it is
as carefully preserved amongst Northumberland
miners as if it were.
Anyhow, reason or no reason, Spooner hated the
Irish. He was the only man in the mines who
could afford to allow himself the luxury of making
public his hatred and contempt. Horan’s shift at
the Better Spec, turned out some large, fierce,
hairy Milesians who could thump sap out of a red
gum block, but Geordie had thumped
the sap out of them, and was there-
fore justified in preserving “ Boyne
Water ” as his favourite air, especially
as he had a numerous following. The
man who is ready to do the fighting
always has.
There was only one man in the
district willing to offer himself whom
Spooner could not boast of having
beaten in fair fight, but whereas
Spooner was always prepared to
“take a round or two” out of any
other gentleman in the township or
locality at call, Dan Morrisey was
reserved for Sundays (long shift off)
and holidays. He and Morrisey had
ceased to engage in impromptu
“mills” after their first dozen battles.
There was a time when a hot word in
the bar would bring them together
with a crash of glass and furniture,
and a quick thud, thud, thud, of
trip-hammer blows, followed by a
rush for the paddock as soon as the
rival supporters —good sportsmen all
—could separate the combatants.
But these encounters invariably meant
the loss of a shift for one or the other
of the men, and often a bill for break-
ages at the pub., or trouble with the
police; so the rival champions were
impelled to take each other seriously,
and to regard a fight between them as
a special indulgence and not the sport of
an hour.
Their feud was an old one ; they had been fight-
ing on and off for five years, and had never had a
decisive battle. Geordie was confident he could
beat the Fenian, and Dan was certain he could
“ knock it out of” the “cocktail,” providing they
had time ; but there was never daylight enough in
a single day for either to get through, and the
toughest rough-and-tumble left neither much the
worse. Georgie was a nuggetty man—heavy,
unwieldy, and humpy with corded muscles; Dan
was taller, more active, with a gorilla-like reach
and mammoth bones, having a “raw edge” on
which “ yez could shtrike sparks wid a hammer, be
gob!” Geordie could hold an anvil on his chest
while a smith pointed a pick on it. Dan could
twist up horse-shoes and pokers with his bare
hands, and lift extraordinary weights with his
jaws. They were broken-nosed, battle-scarred
veterans both ; hard to bruise and hard to bleed,
and apparently about as sensible to pain as an
average rhinoceros.
Their last battle was fought on the n ght of the
“ glorious an’ blissid twelfb.” Geordie, who was
on the 12 o’clock shift, went on the war-path im-
mediately after knocking off that morning. He
believed that it was the duty of every right-think-
ing Orangeman to get drunk on the 12th July,
and to cripple as many Catholics as possible before
night. Towards midday, excited by beer, and
incited by a number of compatriots, Spooner
started out in quest of his old foe, Dan Morrisey.
It was, he felt, an appropriate day to witness the
demolition of the Fenian. But Dan was not
“ fit; ” he had been out of work for a fortnight,
and had taken such excellent advantage of his
leisure that for three or four days past he had .
been seeing snakes. Perhaps his friends, knowing
this, kept him out of the way, or, it was thought,
intelligent constable Finn, whose foresight was
remarkable, might have locked up the Hibernian
champion for the preservation of the peace. Any-
how, Spooner did not meet the only foeman
worthy of his steel, and was compelled to cele-
brate the day with the usual amount of “treble X ”
and a few inglorious scrimmages.
Late that night, when Geordie should have been
going on to work he was staggering home “ with
a load.” He had had a few hours’ sleep at the
Miners’ Rest, and, though substantially drunk,
had sufficient sense to know where he was going.
The track, after he had left the main and only
street, led through sparse timber and scattered
clumps of saplings, between the moaning shaft
and the black and silent engine-house of the
deserted Brown’s Hope mine, passing directly
under the bob-beam, and thence down the ugly,
rooky face of the steep hill, across the creek, and
home. As he approached the Brown’s Hope,
Geordie recollected that, exactly 12 months ago to
the hour, he had been met on this spot by a few
anonymous friends, “lower class Irish,” and
honoured with the most complete and satisfying
“ licking ” he had ever had in his life. The recol-
lection braced him up a little, and he prepared
for the worst. Sure enough there was Dan
Morrisey standing right in the track under the
beam, evidently “laying” for him. He recognised
the long, bony figure in the gloom.
Mr. Spooner knew that he was not cleared for
action, but he would not have turned aside then
for Brian Boru and all his descendants. He
would pass Morrisey without remarks if his foe
was not hungry for a fight, as he realised that he
was not in a condition to do himself and the
Orange cause justice, but he would not concede
an inch of the track to save his skin.
Spooner thought that Morrisey invited the en-
counter by bumping up against him, but that is
not feasible : “ hit first and hit hard ” was Mor-
uu , . „ , ,
risey’s politics, and it was Spooner who rolled
against the Irishman, and struck the blow he had
been saving for the occasion. Jhe two men met
in an unscientific scuffle, and Geordie went down
hard.
Regaining his feet, Geordie Spooner removed
his coat with drunken gravity, and faced his
enemy, using language appropriate to the occa-
sion, and a good deal of it. Dan maintained his
old position, and answered never an oath.
Geordie led again, but fought wide. He knew he
was all over the place, and reasoned to himself
sagely that he must be getting a fearful doing,
although he never knew where Dan landed. It
was a blind,. wild, impotent round, and_ Spooner
dropped again, going over heavily on the lumps of
reef.
Geordie could not tell how long the fight
lasted: he thought they might have been at it
an hour. He remembered that Dan was unusually
active on his feet, and never went down, whereas
he was thrown every round, and got badly
knocked about among'the stones. The last round
was short and furious. Reeling back after a
tremendous endeavour to cross-buttock the big
bushman, Geordie struck the railing round the
bob-pit, the railing smashed like match-wood
under his weight, and the champion of the Orange
cause made his bed on the rocks in the bob, with
a damaged head and a fractured arm.
Next morning short-sighted brother Proctor,
hurrying to work in the dusk, collided with the
body of a man hanging from the bob-beam at the
Brown’s Hope. Dan Morrisey had suicided by
hanging himself with his waist-belt. The feet of
the stiffened corpse just touched the ground, and
the clothes were nearly all torn from the body, and
there were signs all about of a protracted struggle.
A crowd soon assembled, and Geordie Spooner was
discovered in the pit. The Crown was anxious to
hang Spooner, but the evidence satisfied the jury
that the Orangeman had fought a knock-out with
a dead man.
SILAS SNELL.
MUCH-
A LITTLE
WHILE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
„ IL *
/ jove 1 yj)
lOVtf{ ?£NNP SuCf\ song» ,
r m,Ne[l!-iN - i
l ov/ e /n ucfj,a [iTfje wi^i(j j
, ' !
I? I'iaT /^insT^e^eVe^K^ew
/y\ /vip s° j\'ssa6(s you
/o u?
/He p w(\iTjeN " lov E ,^e
W i ;
Or^f\u oy £Si AV£ Pasw I
)a S t !
]wi|L Be BelTE^- WI [L 'INoJ"
W£ l oV o>
'■ L oT "
44^ii|i;!\'f
“The Boys . ”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
On a certain Northern diggings, in that part of
tropical Australia where ‘‘the summer lasts for
nine months, and then the hot weather sets in,” a
few years ago, “the boys” occupied themselves
chiefly in gambling and drinking.
I arrived there one Christmas Eve, with .£53,
two horses, and a good turn-out.
I left early on Christmas morning, with a swag
on my back—half a blanket and a mosquito net—
and empty pockets.
I had always heard it was “a hot shop.” It
was too hot for me. One night griddled me up.
About a mile from the township, when search-
ing for a match, my finger-tip came against a coin.
An unexpected, solitary shilling !
While I stood looking at it, musingly, a horse-
man rode up and stopped
“ Find it ? ”
“ Well, yes ;in one of my pockets. I thought
I was cleaned out.”
“ Come back and I’ll shake you for it.”
I declined the mile’s tramp back, re-shouldered
ray swag, and went on. Presently, I heard a
cooey. Turning round, I saw my equestrian
acquaintance tearing towards me. I waited. Tie
galloped up and swung himself off his saddle i*
the best bush style.
“ Here you are, old man. I’m glad to accom-
modate you. I accidentally found it in my saddle
pouch.”
“ It ” was a dice-box and bones.
We threw. He won, of course.
“The boys would never have forgiven me if
I’d let you get away with that bob. So long, old
man.”
E.A.D.


"The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics,” by Ernest Favenc, from Tim Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. 00. (Ltd.), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S>VY.
THE RED CREEK
CONSULTATION.
BY G ESSEX EVANS
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Red Creek Rush was not a duffer—
Far from that.
E’en the most benighted buffer
Struck it fat.
For the wash with gold was teeming,
And the strings of men came streaming
Till some hundred tents were gleaming
On the Flat.
To this bright and happy valley
Came one day,
G. Theophilus O’Malley,
In a dray,
With his wall-eyed mare, Susannah,
And his lovely sister Hannah,
Smiling in a witching 'manner,
Like a fay. i
The astonishment was utter
Of the Boys !
When they saw her garments flutter.
O the noise !
You may judge of the elation,
The excitement, the sensation
Which O’Malley’s fair relation
Caused the Boys-!
And she was a perfect stunner,
Tall and fair ;
Every digger longed to “ run her
On the square.”
For her cheeks Ayere like a posy,
And her lovely little nosey
With a tiny tilt uprosee
In the air.
And her lips were rather redder
Than a rose,
And her eyes were rather blacker
Than two sloes,
And the worn and weary digger,
Getting very tired of nigger,
Praised the outlines of her figure
And her pose.
Now this beauty, love-compelling,
Innocent,
Shared her brother’s humble dwelling,
Just a tent,
Where, as soon as toil was over,
With desire to be in clover,
Came the steps of every rover,
Love-intent.
There the crazy concertina
Of Jim Bound §
Squealed like any sick hyena,
.Till the sound /{>
Of the whining of a fiddle ,
With a rupture in its middle
(Joy and pride of Tommy Biddle)
Would be drowned.
And outside sat every digger,
Rank on rank;
They admired dear Hannah’s figure
As they drank,
And they sang of love and glory
But restrained the language gory
Of the picturesque Gulf story,
Blanky-Blank.
O, she set the Red Creek Gully
In a blaze.
She refused the Red Creek Gully
In five days.
Sundays Red Creek wished to lend her
Forty horses and attend her,
Clad in all the lurid splendour
It could raise.
Till it happened to this valley
Of delight
That Miss Hannah B. O’Malley
Was a blight.
There was bickering and biting,
There was jealousy and slighting,
There was drunkenness and fighting
Every night.
Then Miss Hannah sent a letter
To the mash
That she loved none less or better —•
Not a dash !
Consultation might be wicked,
But for fun you couldn’t lick it:
She would be the winning ticket.
With the cash.
And all Red Creek passed a motion
On the spot,
To accept her clever notion
Like a shot.
“ Just three hundred,” said Bill Grady,
“ At a fiver !” put in Brady,
“ And the man who draws the lady
Takes the lot.”
Empty grog-case—did she mind it
In the tent ?
No. Miss Hannah sat behind it,
Innocent.
And the boys they looked quite wily
As they planked the dust down slyly,
And Miss Hannah blushed so shyly
As they went.
O, the camp was sweet as honey
On the game !
Here was something for your money !
Here was fame !
O the wagers and the jawing
On the day before the drawing !
And the iciest hearts were thawing
At her flame !
When the morning sun was gleaming
Bright and fair,
To the tent the camp came beaming,
Free from care;
But Miss Hannah and O’Malley,
And the gold-dust and the tally,
And the best nags of the Valley
Were not there !
Take a lesson from the story
Of the fall
Of Red Creek in the glory
Of her thrall.
They who never could resist her —
Tftey who hadn’t even kissed her
Found she wasn’t Malley’s sister
After all! !
Q.
G. ESSEX EVANS.
GEORGE CATINNUN
FOR THE BULLETIN
On the 13th of April, 18—, a boundary-
rider on Gravelbank Station suddenly and
strangely vanished. There was no probable
explanation of his disappearance, unless he
had been murdered and his body success-
fully disposed of. His few poor belongings,
somewhat disarranged, were found in his hut, and
there was a fair amount of pay due to him. Both
the owner and the ration-carrier had seen him on
the .evening of the 13th, and the owner had ap-
pointed to meet him at a certain place next morn-
ing. He did not turn up there, which led to the
early discovery of his disappearance.
The man was much liked as a quiet, steady
fellow, and it was generally supposed that he had
once occupied the position of a gentleman. Wide
search was made, but without result, and it was
generally held that George Catinnun had met
with foul play.
Some of the papers found among his traps led
the owner, with whom he had been a great favorite,
to drive in to the nearest important township—
that of Woburra, 150 miles away—to communicate
with the man’s family.
* » *
On the night of the 13th April a young
married lady resident in the
principal hotel of Woburra
awoke suddenly to see in her
room a strange man in evening
dress. It was about midnight;
she had retired early, and her
husband had gone down to the
billiard-room for a game or
two. They had been out to
dinner; consequently, when
she saw this figure in even-
ing-dress standing before the
glass-door of the wardrobe she imagined that
it was her husband. She had left the gas
burning.
Suddenly she discovered her mistake and
screamed violently. The man turned, sprang
fiercely at her, and gripped her throat with such
force that he silenced her. She felt choking when
another figure suddenly appeared at the bedside
wrenching her assailant’s hands away. The grip
relaxed, and the first man fled followed by her
rescuer. She fainted.
The rest of the story is soon told. The men
rushed from the billiard-room and arrested in
headlong flight down the stairs a man in evening-
dress.
He seemed quite dazed, offered scarcely any
resistance, and was easily secured and taken into
custody.
When interrogated, he said that he had no idea
how he got there, that his name was George
Catinnun, and that he was a boundary-rider at
Gravelbank Station, 150 miles from Woburra.
He was asked when he left the station, and
replied that he had never left the station to his
knowledge. He stated, of his own accord, that he
had gone to sleep in his bunk, in his own hut, on
the night of the 13th April.
It was apparent that he was a
man of intelligence, and when
further questioned as to his motive
for entering the lady’s room, he
replied that he had not entered of
his own accord, and swore solemnly
that he never laid violent hands
on the lady’s neck. The doctor said
that the man was apparently sane
and certainly sober, but declined,
pending some days’ further obser-
vation, to give any decided opinion
as to his mental responsibility.
The interval was unavoidably
lengthened out by the accused mak-
ing a statement which seemed to
confirm the idea that the offence
must have been that of a dangerous
lunatic cunning enough to conceal
his insanity.
On the other hand* what had
become of the second man ?
The injured lady was still suffer-
ing too much from the shock to
be able to identify the accused;
but some of the men who first
issued from the billiard-room testi-
fied that there were two men on the
stairs, and that one suddenly and
unaccountably disappeared. Which
it was, the first or the second,
nobody could say. One had on a
suit of pyjamas and the other even-
ing-dress, but the former had
vanished.
When recovered sufficiently to
be questioned, the young lady said
she believed the second man was
wearing a light suit which might
have been pyjamas, but she had
been too terrified to take much
notice. When she felt strong enough
to see the accused, she seemed
nervous at first, but suddenly braced up on looking
at his face, and stated that its appearance! abso-
lutely mystified her.
The face, she said, was the same that she first
reflected in the glass, but now it did not
frighten her in the least. It had been the man’s
awful expression which had so agonised her.
Catinnun was told to scowl and to look angry, all
of which he endeavoured to do, but the lady, un-
moved, said the expression was nothing of that
sort. The man and face were the same—but yet
they were not the same.
This was, of course, looked on as a nervous
fancy, attributable to the difference of the sur-
roundings. Suddenly Bolstock, of Gravelbank,
arrived in town. He had heard of the case on the
way, and at once demanded to see Catinnun.
“My God !” he cried. “ Gentlemen, I solemnly
swear that this is my boundary-rider, George
Catinnun, whom I saw on my station 150 miles
from here on the evening of the 13th of April.
And, moreover, my ration-carrier can swear to the
same thing.”
* * *
This was the statement that Catinnun had
made :
“ A man came to my hut on the evening of the
13th. I took a strange dislike to him at sight and
could scarcely constrain myself to the common
bush hospitality of asking him to stay the night.
I scarcely know how to describe him, for he was not
like an ordinary traveller, although dressed as one.
“He was on foot and said he was tired. He
had a strange face, keen, beardless, and expressive.
Not ugly, but repellent—so evil-looking at times
that it made me vow I would not let him sleep in
the hut. He made me nervous.
“ Still, mine was a lonely life, and when I had
fed him, I talked to him. Even after he had
conversed for some time I could not determine
what he was. Certainly, as the evening drew on, I
grew less and less afraid of him and allowed him
to talk of subjects on which I generally scorned
to speak. I even, somehow, felt less repugnant to
the horrible leer that came to his face when he
gloated over past dissipation.
“ I told him about myself. How I had once
been a gentleman and hoped to have money again
soon. Even that I kept amongst my things a
good suit which fitted me well, also, my dress-
clothes, so that if suddenly recalled to my former
life, I could at once appear decently—not in slops.
A poor vanity, but one possessed by many men I
have known,
“We grew quite confidential. I lent him a
blanket and some bags for his bed, and we turned
in, for I had to be up at daybreak. My new com-
panion appeared to go to sleep at once in the
corner I had shown him. I lay for some time
thinking regretfully of my past and despairingly
of my future, but the beauty of the night, the
stillness and the glory of the moon lighting
up the hut, consoled me, and I slept.
“ * After him ! After him, quick ! He has got
your body.’
“The words seemed shouted in my ears, and
with a start I opened ray eyes.
“ I was standing in a room, furnished somewhat
in the style of my old home. On a bed, fast
asleep, lay a handsome young woman. But I
scarcely noticed her, after the first glance, for in
front of me I saw myself! I was standing in
front of a full-length mirror, the door of a ward-
robe, apparently settling myself into my evening-
dress, as a man will do. But, oh, the face of
gloating evil that leered horribly back at me!
Never at any stage of my existence could I have
looked as my own reflection now did at me. I
forgot everything, my strange presence in that
room, all but my own face in my own clothes —
myself! glaring and mowing back at me in the
mirror.
“ A shriek of keenest, agonised terror startled
and thrilled me. The woman had awakened and
seen that face. I saw it change to everything evil,
and with the growl of a beast my image sprang at
her and grasped her fiercely by the throat.
“ The first man fied, followed by her rescuer .”
“This roused me from my trance of awe, and I
seized myself by my murderous wrists and
wrenched my hands away from the fair white
throat.
“It turned and fled through the door, down a
broad, lighted stairway, I closely pursuing.
“ Roused by that scream of fear some men were
hastening to meet us.
“ ‘ Fool !’ the thing said, turning back and rush-
ing at me, ‘ Why did you follow me ? Take your
body !’ ”
Stupefied and amazed I, the next moment, found
myself struggling with the men. And, to add to
all, I had changed places with the thing, and
was now that thing myself. That is how I came
to be here.”
* « •
In a dry, unstocked paddock on Gravel-
bank, waterless at times for months, they one day
found the body of a man. Nothing had touched
it, neither crow, dog nor eagle-hawk. For it lay
there with such an evil grin on the dead face that
those who found it put it quickly in the earth and
said no prayer.
• « »
This is what Bolstock found in Catinnun’s
papers : He had been an officer in the army,
young, popular and with a future before him; but,
surprised one night in a lady’s bedroom, had to
resign his commission. He would have been
cashiered but for the strong feeling amongst most
of his brother officers that he was the victim of a
plot between husband and wife.
MAHATMA.
Hedonic.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A stir of lilies and a great pale star ;
A twit of sparrow and a strange small breeze;
A little lifting mist; a barking, heard afar ;
A frou-frou of the trees.
The jewelled West sighs for the passing Night;
Lucent the ether grows. Hills, grey and dun,
Melt to a faery blue, a golden glowing white ;
And then : My Lord the Sun 1
The gods of book and tribe are gods of words—
Unreachable, too far beyond, above;
Thy face is real, present; it affords
Light and sweet Life, and Love ;
Art and the love of Art. For ear and eye,
The Song, the Flower, apt complements of sensey
All Good from-heart of Good, thou shed’st, in thy
Most sweet incontinence.
Salve ! thou God of mine—the noblest in
My ken of all the cosmic hierarchy !
And a fair vantage of Thy grace to win
Is my philosophy.
Paeroa, M.L.
EDWIN EDWARDS.


The white frock is five-sixths of innocence.
The other sixth is guilt.
PUBLIC NOTICE. -J53
INTO. 1 MANILLAS,
7 for 1/-, 13/6 per 100.
Send your orders, with P. 0.0., stamp* or cheque to-»
M. & H. WOOLF A. CO.,
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(General Post OflSos next.)
A Spray of Poinsettia .
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
Stephen Armstrong, the labour-agent of the
South Sea Island schooner, Florence May, went
up and down the Queensland coast in quest of the
cook, Johnny Croker, a Tahitian half-caste. It was
a difficult quest for two reasons. First, because the
presence of a Kanaka boy more or less in a Queens-
land port is too slight a matter to be noticed by
many whites ; second, because Armstrong was
playing the difficult part of a hunter who wants
known neither his quarry nor the fact of his being
a hunter.
After the return of the Florence May from her
last cruise there had been vague talk of “ re vela-
tions,” but a general
election had brought
in a Ministry favor-
able to coloured
labour, and the talk
was stifled. The cap-
tain and the crew
had become lost to
all recollection o f
‘ ‘ black - birding ” in
the Elysium of hotel
bars, and Johnny had
disappeared com-
pletely.
Armstrong had
been searching for
Johnny Kaloka (as
his name became in
the soft Tahitian
dialect) ever since he
met Ben Green, the
Florence May’s car-
penter, in Queen-
street, Brisbane.
“D’ye know what
J ohnny showed me ? ”
said Ben. “Ablanky
straight log of all
the pretty little bits
of fun we had this
last trip, writ out
clean and plain and
all ready for ‘so-
help - me - Gording ’
and the rest of it be-
fore a bloomin’ boss-
lawyer.” By which
Armstrong under-
stood that Johnny
had drawn up a
statutory declaration
. eady for signing.
“Well, why didn’t
you stop his mouth ? ”
he said ; “ we’re all
in the same boat. I
suppose the brute
wanted beer.”
“ Beer be blowed !”
said Ben. “ Cham-
pine ! that’s his dart.
Three ’undred quid
was his figure. ‘ Three
undred quid, or I’ll
split,’ he says, dead
in earnest, too. But
I got him to keep
quiet till I could see
you and raise the
coin or do something
to stop his jaw, for
he means business.”
Three months had
passed since this in-
terview with Ben,
and Johnny had dis-
appeared. Arm-
strong thought his
silence ominous, and
began his search. He
wandered from Bris-
bane to Burketown
without finding traces
of Johnny. Then he
turned South again,
and, arriving at Will-
town, put up for a
few weeks to watch
events.
Stephen Armstrong
was a big, handsome,
florid man with frank
and engaging man-
ners, and the “ best
set ” of Willtown re-
ceived him with open
arms, for he belonged
to “ a good English
family.” After a forti ght of tennis parties,
dances, and the rather m -notonous social gaieties
which a small Northern ;own affords, Armstrong
found himself on the b ink of engagement with
Ethel Wrixon, a pretty | irl and an heiress.
The road from the Gi ind Hotel, at Willtown,
to Wrixon’s house ran pj rallel with the river, the
gardens of the houses n the river-side sloping
down to the water’s sdge. About half-way
between the two places was a public-house much
frequented by wharf-lumpers and sailors, with a
I>retty, though coarse-looking, barmaid. This wag
an attraction Armstrong could never resist, and
he speedily struck up an acquaintance. The
Planters’Arms became a favorite stopping-place,
and his courtship of Ethel was agreeal y diversi-
fied by his pursuit of Carrie, the barmaid Carrie,
who was the landlord’s daughter, was no easy
victim. She had a great deal of the natural
shrewdness and foresight which with some girls
of her class passes for morality ; and, though
evidently pleased with Armstrong, she kept him
dexterously at a distance.
One afternoon he was returning to his hotel
from the Wrixons’, glowing with success. Ethel
had accepted him ; her parents, devoted to their
only child, never dreamed of opposing her wishes.
He was to return in the evening and ask their
consent. He walked along building gorgeous
castles in the air with Ethel’s money. The old
people could not last long; then he would go
back to England, buy a house, and take his proper
position in the world, “cutting this cursed coun-
try for ever,” he muttered audibly. Suddenly,
from out the sky, it seemed, gleaming in the
setting sun, fell a clot of blood. Startled, he
stopped short, panting, with staring eyes, till a
very human laugh above him steadied his shaken
nerves.
“Ain’t you never seen a poinsettia before?”
asked a well-known voice, and, looking up, he
saw Carrie on the low balcony in front of the
Planters 1 Arms. ** My word, it did seem to give
you a fright. What’s up ?”
Armstrong disclaimed all fear, laughingly, and
picking up the blood-hued leaves, not without a
shudder, he placed them in his button-hole, then
scaled the low balcony and stood beside Carrie.
Her voice and manner jarred upon him to-day.
“ Fancy marrying her !” he thought.
Fortune, however, was in her most generous
mood, for he found that Carrie had surrendered at
discretion. Would he meet her that night ?
“About twelve, after the ’ouse closes. I’ll be
there by the poinsettia bush, and perhaps,” she
added, coyly, “ I’ll ’ave a surprise for you.”
This was too pleasant an invitation to neglect;
and returning about midnight, after an affecting
“Bless you, my children!” scene, and a blissful
evening with Ethel, he waited by the poinsettia
bush at the side of the house. Behind him,
extending to the river, was a garden filled with
tangled masses of tropical bloom and foliage. A
path led from a side-gate, by which Armstrong
had entered, through the garden, to some landing
steps on the bank
It was a beautiful moonlight night, and the air
was heavy with rich scents, borne on the hardly-
stirring breeze. The loafers from the bar rolled
unsteadily past him, and he heard the locking of
doors. Suddenly came the loud sound of curses, a
noise of trampling and wrestling within, and two
figures struggled out.
One, a strong, burly man, Armstrong saw was
“pa.” The other was of slighter build and very
drunk. “Pa ” was evidently doing the “ chucking
out.” He threw the other man violently into the
gutter.
“ We’ve had quite enough of you,” said pa,
“ lyin’ here ill this three month, eatin’ and gettin’
drunk on the best, to say nothin’ of the nursin’;
and now you expect to stay on without paying.”
The bar door was violently slammed and locked,
and Armstrong heard “pa’s ” footsteps retreating
upstairs. The man in the gutter lay still, moan-
ing. Armstrong opened the sidegate, and went
out to pick him up.
“It’s no use your staying here,” he said, “get
up and go home.”
The man was lying on his face, and made no
reply. Armstrong turned him face upwards.
The moon shone full on him, and Armstrong saw
his quest was over. The man was Johnny
Kaloka.
Armstrong dragged him into the garden under
the shade of the poinsettia tree.
“Kaloka, you got that paper,” he cried, his
voice trembling with rage ; “you hound, you give
it up! ”
Johnny, sobered somewhat, stared into the face
above him.
“ Misi Armstlong!” he gasped.
“Yes, it’s me, and I want that paper.” The
blue eyes glittered cruelly in the pale light of the
moon, the color left his face, he was ashy pale.
He shook Johnny fiercely.
“ No have got,” said Johnny vacantly.
“ Stop this foolery,” cried Armstrong, and,
with trembling fingers, he began searching the
kanaka’s clothes,
Johnny instinctively resisted, Armstrong was
in despair, Carrie might come at any moment.
“ Tell me where the paper is, or ” and he
grasped Johnny’s throat meaningly,
No answer. The grasp tightened. Johnny,
wasted with disease, soon ceased struggling. His
eyes and tongue were starting; his chest heaved
convulsively ; then one great shuddering sigh and
he lay still.
Armstrong rapidly searched his clothes, but
there was no paper of any kind. He rose with a
gesture of contempt and rage,
“ I’ve stopped your tongue, anyhow,” he
muttered.
Then he heard footsteps on the hotel verandah,
and in an instant, catching up the body, he slipped
down the garden-path
to the river and
pitched it in. The
tide was running out
rapidly and quickly
carried the body from
sight. Armstrong
watched it go with
an expression of
triumph, then walked
up the path and met
Carrie.
“What a time
you’ve kept me wait-
ing, ’’she said. “What
were you doing just
iiow ? What was that
splash I heard?”
Armstrong did not
answer. She had seen
him, then ? “ I’ve a
good mind not to
give you what I pro-
mised,” Carrie went
on ; “ but I suppose
I’d better. ”
She handed him a
paper, folded and
soiled.
“ Kaloka gave me
this to give to you.”
“Johnny gave you
this,” he repeated,
holding out his hand
for the paper;
“why?”
“He saw me talk-
ing to you once and
thought I was mashed
on you, so he told
me to give it to you;
he said that as I had
been kind to him
when he was so ill,
he wouldn’t give you
away. What did he
mean, Steve ? ”
Armstrong said
nothing.
“He must have
known something bad
against you, but I
don’t care what it is.
I didn’t read his old
papers. And now,
Steve, you’ll marry
me, won’t you, and
not that horrid,
stuck-up Ethel
Wrixon ? ”
This was too much
for Armstrong. “ Let
me think,” he said
hoarsely. He sat
down on the verandah
steps, while Carrie
watched him curi-
ously.
“ Then I’ve killed
the brute for nothing, ”
he said slowly, “and
I can’t marry you,
for I’m engaged to
Ethel.”
Carrie started; she
had not seen the
murder as Armstrong
supposed. A vicious
gleam came into her
eyes.
“Killed him, did
you? Then that was
what made the
splash! You’d better
clear, Steve; Johnny
may be looked for by
the police.”
“ And you are the
only one to give information,’’thought Armstrong.
“ Well, the game is up.”
Then, aloud: “I’ll marry you, Carrie. That
is,” he added, with a laugh, “if you don’t mind
the idea of marrying a !”
“Bah !” said Carrie, “it was only a Kanaka!”
Ethel Wrixon is still weeping for the faithless
lover who eloped with a barmaid ; but Queensland
has long since forgotten to wonder why the
Opposition papers never made any more of the
threatened “ revelations ” about the cruise of the
Florence May.
GRANT BLAIR.
"POSSY."
| | a a.'jjoj/utn pet
v/cXj TY>t wl]Vte &f J' r j Cf '\* / j)
B PIN <2vVy
w h <?re we rf> j° u k g ti
ilLl\l < "f< ? c 7 # "p°f/ ’'w&/ to jp 4
-mm- : m-w *
k € l°M° We d- h er y
M»
IF , J M |ur,
<?o J^ef 7 Your c&xc&jq. coo\:
H
JlUeoct I 3 & way cl y r ,
J]il G l|aJ er\j<yed <x tuiyt;
e i iTjet {|ij blooclj [y»t e J[ e -'
"toper " jeered v,oyt.
taJ\c A? o,| lev I
&' c d
'l*°fj\j*A-' d ■ ceo|tybuLj’c<?
eCf <2 °t bad dV'T^?


"The hand that rocks the cradle moves the world
d
WWi P
111 Hilil
EDMUND FISHER
"THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE RULES THE WORLD." NEW VERSION.


SALTBUSH
BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now this is the Law of the Overland that all in
the West obey,
A man must travel with travelling sheep a six-
mile stage a day;
But this is the law which the drovers make, right
easily understood,
They travel their stage where the grass is bad, but
they camp where the grass is good ;
They camp, and they ravage the squatter’s grass
till never a blade remains,
Then they drift away as the white clouds drift on
the edge of the saltbush plains,
From camp to camp and from run to run they
battle it hand to hand,
For a blade of grass and the right to pass on
the track of the Overland.
Now this is the law of the Great Stock Routes, ’tis
written in white and black—
The man that goes with a travelling mob must
keep to a half-mile track ;
And the drovers keep to a half-mile track on the
runs where the grass is dead,
But they spread their sheep on a well-grassed run
till they go with a two-mile spread.
So the squatters hurry the drovers on from dawn
till the fall of night,
And the squatters’ dogs and the drovers’ dogs get
mixed in a deadly fight,
Yet the squatters’ men, though they hunt the
mob, are willing the peace to keep,
For the drovers learn how to use their hands when
they go with the travelling sheep;
But this is the tale of a Jackaroo that came from
a foreign strand,
And the fight that he fought with Saltbush Bill,
the King of the Overland.
Now Saltbush Bill was a drover, tough as ever the
country knew,
He had fought his way on the Great Stock Routes
from the sea to the Big Barcoo ;
He could tell when he came to a friendly run that
gave him a chance to spread,
And he knew where the hungry owners were that
hurried his sheep ahead ;
He was drifting down in the Eighty drought with
a mob that could scarcely creep
(When the kangaroos by the thousand starve, it is
rough on the travelling sheep),
And he camped one night at the crossing-place on
the edge of the Wilga run.
“ We must manage a feed for them here,” ne said,
“ or the half of the mob are done !”
So he spread them out when they left the camp
wherever they liked to go,
Till he grew aware of a Jackeroo with a station-
hand in tow,
And they set to work on the straggling sheep, and
with many a stockwhip crack
They forced them in where the grass was dead in
the space of the half-mile track ;
So William prayed that the hand of fate might
suddenly strike him blue
But he’d get some grass for his starving sheep in
the teeth of that Jackaroo.
So he turned and he cursed the Jackaroo, he
cursed him alive or dead,
From the soles of his great unwieldy feet to the
crown of his ugly head,
With an extra curse on the moke he rode and the
cur at his heels that ran,
Till the Jackaroo from his horse got down and he
went for the drover-man;
With the station-hand for his picker-up, though
the sheep ran loose the while,
They battled it out on the saltbush plain in the
regular prize-ring style.
Now, the new-chum fought for his honour’s sake
and the pride of the English race,
But the drover fought for his daily bread with a
smile on his bearded face ;
So he shifted ground and he sparred for wind and
he made it a lengthy mill,
And from time to time as his scouts came in they
whispered to Saltbush Bill—
“We have spread the sheep with a two-mile
spread, and the grass it is something grand,
You must stick to him, Bill, for another round for
the pride of the Overland.”
The new-chum made it a rushing fight, though
never a blow got home,
Till the sun rode high in the cloudless sky and
glared on the brick-red loam,
Till the sheep drew in to the shelter-trees and
settled them down to rest,
Then the drover said he would fight no more and
he gave his opponent best.
So the new-chum rode to the homestead straight
and he told them a story grand
Of the desperate fight that he fought that day
with the King of the Overland.
And the tale went home to the Public Schools of
the pluck of the English swell,
1 low the drover fought for his very life, but blood
in the end must tell,
But the travelling sheep and the Wilga sheep were
boxed on the Old Man Plain.
Twas a full week’s work ere they drafted out and
hunted them off again,
With a week’s good grass in their wretched hides,
with a curse and a stock-whip crack,
They hunted them off on the road once more to
starve on the half-mile track—
And Saltbush Bill, on the Overland, will many a
time recite
How the best day’s work that ever he did was the
day that ho lost the fight. »
A.B.P.
From the Log of the Outward
Bound.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The look-out had sighted some wreckage on the
lee-quarter; the mate, aloft, had made out a
ship’s mast in the centre of the circular vista his
binocular gave him; and the steamer’s head fell
off three points to leeward so as to pass closer.
The stale novels and quoits, the staler flirtations,
were dropped, and all the passengers crowded to
the side; except the half-dozen men in the
smoking-room, who_ still kept to their eternal
poker. The rest waited, glancing alternately from
the sea to the cross-trees, and looking where
pointed the black barrels of the mate’s glasses.
“ There’s a man lashed to it!”
The cry from aloft sent a thrill of excitement
all through the steamer. Down to the sick people,
who tried to come on deck, or, at least, rolled
over in their bunks to open their dead-lights ;
down to the engineers, reaching with oil-cans
between flying piston-rods ; down past the grimy,
sweating devils in the stokehole, till it got into
the coal, mingled with the steam, and flew through
the pipes and valves like spirit through the veins
of a man. But the poker-players remained calm,
“ Tell us when we come up,” said one who held
four aces. “ Raise you five pounds !”
The smoke tumbled from the funnels with a
hoarse roar; the minutes seemed as many as the
countless waves +hat one by one dashed against
the bow, and fell
by, broken and
shattered, into
the hissing
wake. Then the
spar was sighted
from the deck ;
bit by bit the
details became
plainer, the top,
the dishevelled
rigging, and
something else
—a mere spot—
which gradually
grew into the
bare breast of
a man, in blue
trousers, lashed
with many coils
to the mast.
Steam was
stopped and a
boat lowered.
There was no
sign of life from
the castaway;
he hung forward
limply on his
lashings, and he
seemed fearfully
wasted. Coming
closer, a slight
movement of his
head was seen,
but it was only
the rocking of
the sea, and it
added to his
helpless, dead
appearance.
Rough hands
grew womanly
as they cut him
loose and laid
him in the stem.
Then the boat
shot back to the
steamer, whose
black sides were
spotted with lit-
tle white specks
along the bul-
warks and at
every cabin-wir
dow.
“ L i vi n g—
just! ” said the
doctor, from the
sheets, as the
boat touched the
side. There was a cheer, in which even the
poker-players joined, with their hands in their
pockets clutching the last deal.
Then the fearfully-light armful was lifted on
board, and left to the doctor forward ; the steamer
was put on her course; and the forlorn spar, with
its tangle of rigging, was soon bobbing away in
the white wake that she trailed behind her half-
way round the world.
The passengers would have liked the man to
relate His adventures, but no one had seen him
except the doctor, whose bulletin said that he was
very weak, hardly sensible, and an almost Hopeless
case. On the evening of the third day, when the
subject—considered as a topic for the saloon—had
so waned in interest that bets were no longer made
as to the patient’s living or not, the doctor came
to the captain.
“ He’s sensible now, and he wants to see you—
to make a statement, he says.”
“ Is he ?”
“ Umph—yes ! I’m afraid so.”
They went forward to the sick bay, where the
lamps, switched low, showed a man lying back,
witfi sunken temples, and cheeks gaunt and hollow
under the new beard that half-covered them. He
turned a glance, glittering with death, upon them,
and spoke in a struggling whisper.
“ Skipper, my clearance is made out. I want
my wife to know at once that I am dead —you’re a
liner, ain’t you—that’s good ! the news’ll be
quicker. I don’t want no ‘missin’ at Lloyd’s,’
and waitin’ and waitin’ month arter month for me
to turn up. ’Tain’t good for a woman, ’specially
when—ofi ! it’s mighty hard, skipper!—we was
only just married, but it’s better she knows at
once—the oncertainty’d kill her, and she’ll be able
to bear it better now than—than if it come on her
by-and-by. Tell her immediate, skipper; and tell
tHe owners that the Laura May has foundered, so
Jenny can get my wages; she’ll want it, poor girl, ”
The captain assured him, and he went on :
“My name’s Trigg— Benjamin Trigg, A. 8., of
the Laura May, barquentine, of Liverpool, home-
ward bound from Port Royal with logwood—ls
souls, all told—all gone but me ! . God
Almighty ! there they are again ! Keep ’em off !
Keep ’em off ! ”
It was only a cockroach that had dropped on the
blanket, but he had risen on one elbow witH the
miraculous strength of delirium, and his whole
frame trembled with horror.
“ Not like that ! Oh, God, don’t kill me like
poor Joe ! No, no, God ! ”
He seemed to sweep something off his face, and
fell back suddenly in collapse. The doctor flicked
the insect away.
“ Gone ? ” asked the captain.
“Yes.”
“ Poor devil! What did he mean ? Sounded
like the horrors, didn’t it ? ’*
“ No, it can’t be that—it’s very peculiar—the
sun has got at his brain. ”
“You’re—right—doctor— it ain’t.” The man’s
eyes were still closed, but his lips parted in an
almost inaudible whisper.
“ Alive ! ” started the two listeners.
“ Ay—l’m alive —summut, and it ain’t the
’errors. They ain’t so bad as hanging over that
deck bearin’ Joe and watchin’ them crawlin’
things. You’ll keep ’em off me, won’t yer, doctor
—you won’t let me die like my poor messmate? . .
Gimme something and I’ll tell ye about it.”
The doctor, still perplexed, leant over the cast-
away, quietly parting down the clasped, beseech-
ing hands, and holding the brandy to the blackened
lips.
“Thank ye—that’s better —111 get along—’s
nearly high water. It happened tenth day out.
We’d been becalmed three days, and it was the
rollin’ about in that blazin’ sun with the sea luke-
warm that did it. There was millions and millions
of eggs in that blasted stuff and the sun hatched
’em. . . Skipper, what’s your cargo? ”
“ General merchandise.”
“ Any logwood.”
“No.”
“ That’s right. Steer clear of it. ’Cos when
your’ebecalmedthesun hatches them things—never
open the hatches when you’re becalmed ” ——
“ This is a steamer, my man,” said the captain.
*1 know —can’t I hear yer engines—they’re
sayin’ I’m dead, so Jenny’ll get my wages. I’m-
dead-that-I-am-that-I-am-that-I-am listen, skip-
per!—l'm dead —they speak quite plain—that-I-
am-that-I-am-that
ENGLISH SPEAKING PEOPLES.
ENGLISH MASHER : “’Sthwaw wifle caw heaw?”
COLONIAL BARMAID: “I beg your pardon.”
ENGLISH MASHER : “’Sthwaw wifle caw heaw?”
COLONIAL BARMAID: "Really, I do not understand you.”
(Exit Masher disgusted.)
He meant to enquire —“ Is there a rifle corps here?”
“Lord, old girl, who’d ’a thought you’d ’a made
so much out o’washin’shirts —Mrs. Triggs, Laun-
dress—l painted the same sort of curly Lon the
bows of the Laura May—don’t pipe yer eye, I’m
home now, and I’ll never sail on a logwood ship no
more. Tighter, lass ! Lord, St’s real lummy
’avin’ yer arms round me. Wha-at! God’s
mercy ! yer don’t say so ? Bless yer. lass—and
him or her, whatever it is ! Mind, if it’s a boy
he’s to be called J oe. Don’t say nothin’—l’m too
damned happy. , . Laura Miay, sir, homeward
bound. , . Ay, ay, sir. . . What the hell
does the mate want, swabbin’ and polishin’—’tain’t
a bloomin’ yacht ”
He went off into disconnected scraps of sen-
tences, each in a different voice, and then into in-
articulate mutterings. Even when he was silent
the diseased activity of his brain was shown by
the voiceless thought that ran in rapid changes of
expression over his face. The two men tried hard
to gather its import; then the captain whis-
pered to the doctor, who shook his head doubtfully
and said, “ I don’t think it’s any use.”
“I do,” said the captain. “ I’ve seen it before ;
it’ll bring him up with a round turn.”
Then in his quarter-deck voice he shouted,
“Ready about—stand by !” right in the sailor’s
ear, who at once ceased his vague muttering and
answered, “Ay, ay, sir !”
“See!” whispered the captain, “look at his
hands ! he’s unhitched the braces—all but a turn.
Now we can lead him. Trigg !”
“ Ay, ay, sir !”
“ What happened when the Laura May was on
the homeward voyage ?”
The man went on in a low, weakening voice
that at times died away to nothing, but each time
he wandered the captain brought him back by a
call to duty and a question.
“ The skipper thought we’d sprung a leak
through strainin’ of the timbers, and he ordered
us to take off the ’atches. I was for’ard when I
heard a scream—like a woman’s —and I ran aft and
saw everybody runnin’ away from the ’atches, cos’
the inside of the ’old was one infernal crawlin’
mass of insects—lizards, and scorpions, and centi-
pedes, and beetles, and things I never before heard
tell on, and millions and millions of ants, white
and black and red, all hatched out of the logwood.
And there was JoeDeebles, my messmate, dancin’
about howlin’, ’cos one them things had bit him.
In half an eye we was racin’ aloft, ’cos the pesky
things was spreadin’ fore and aft as if we had
shipped a sea of ’em. We was real downright
frightened, and all the time Joe was doublin’ up
of himself in the maintop, and his leg was all blue
and swollen like a poisoned pup. And the insects
was tumblin’ out of the ’old like mad, and soon
there wasn’t an inch clear of ’em. At first the
mate tried to fight ’em with a mop on the poop,
but some of the durned things could jump, and
towards afternoon there was flyin’ things as well
with nasty red wings, buzzin’ above the deck. I
was with Joe in the maintop and the rest was
scattered permiscus-like all over the riggin’. We
was all fearfully thirsty ; it was blazing hot, and
all the while them leggy things was knottin’ and
splicin’ of themselves below. We was afraid
they’d come aloft, but when they sniffed the bul-
warks, which was bubblin’ tar, they ’bouted ship
back again. We saw the ants run up the railins ,
and round the wheel and all over the spokes, all
fightin’ and scruffin’. They swarmed over the
binnacle, and some long things slipped back on
the_ eaves,, and fell flat on the deck with their
white bellies up, and their dozens o’ legs kickin’
in the air. And we heard a screech from Neil
Hansen’s parrot in the fo’c’s’le and we knew
they’d got at it. It was as much as we could
do to stop Neil from goin’ down to save it.
Then the skipper’s fox-terrier began to sniff
and yowl under the door, and the crawlers
must ve got him, for we heard him snappin’ and
howlin’ and dancin’ round till he, too, was quiet.
We knew that the things ’d never be got out
of the ship, and the skipper talked of burnin’
her. And there was a nasty inseoty smell
which was sickening; it came mostly from
the caboose, which was smokin’, and it was mixed
up with pea-soup. The things must ’ve fallen
into the fire. And Joe was gettin’ weaker and
weaker, and talkin’ of home, so we had to bind
him to the ratlines. Now and again someone ’d
go aloft to the truck, but there was never nothin’
m sight. Then night came on, and the first few
hours afore the moon rose was awful up there in the
dark with Joe dyin’, and the creep, creep, creep of
them things below. Every minute you’d hear
somebody startin’ o’ slappin’ hisself, as if he felt
somethin’ crawlin’ up him. When the moon rose
it was better’, ’cos we could see each other, and the
skipper started a song to liven us, sayin’ we was
in the track of steamers, and we’d sure to be
sighted. All of a sudden Joe joined in the
chorus, very loud, and afore a man could say
| Avast ’ he’d broken loose his lashin’s and
jumped off the top. He went singin’ all the way
down, till we heard him scrunch into the insects
on deck. We just see’d his face for a minute, all
white in the moonlight, and them cursed things
closed over him, and he was only a heap of in-
sects . . was . . my messmate and the
parrot and the terrier ”
“ Now, it’s real downright ridiculous, Jenny,
goin’ on like this ; your ’usband didn’t die like
poor J oe, he didn’t, marm. He had a berth in a
liner, and a liner’s doctor, and he was buried
decently with a shot at his heels, and he told me
to tell you, Mrs. Triggs, that he was very sick
when Joe fell, and, says he, get my wages, Jenny
dear, and call the baby Ben. Don’t call him Joe,
’cos Joe fell among the insects, and next mornin’
all the crew was lashed aloft, ’cos they was
frightened, too, and Triggs, marm, your poor
’usband, what died on the liner, he looked on deck
and he see’d a skeleton hand —picked clean ”
“Will yer remember it all, skipper, write it
down —Joe fell, and there was a squall, I think.
I remember bearin’ ’im sing, and lashin’ myself to
the mast, and the creepy sound came up through
the timber, an’ ”
“Hallo, where’s the moon?—it’s all cloudy,
there’s wind coming—in with the topsails—ay,
ay, sir—if we ship a sea with the ’atches off we’ll
founder—what’s that! Gbd! here it comes broad-
side on—hold tight ! ”
“Yer ’and, skipper; I’m castin’ off. Thanks for
pickin’ me up—you went out of yer way—t’other
line ’ll beat yer this trip. ’Tain’t every skipper
would’ve. I’ve sailed on liners—all hell for the
passage and damn those overboard ! Good-bye,
doctor, and thank you kindly. And, skipper, tell
—J enny—she’s not to keep single ’cos o’ me—
there’s lots ’ll ’ave her—
“My name’s Trigg, sir. .r. . . I want to make
—statement —Liverpool ”
He had passed outward.
Yic.
J. H. GREENE.
On the Speewaa.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am shearing on the Speewaa, where the shearers
never curse;
Where we shun the foul tobacco and the whisky
that is worse;
Where we men are never longing for a fortnight
on the “bust,”
And the “boss”is quite euphonic with his “may”
instead of “ must
Where we men are never vulgar, and the sheep so
cleanly shorn
That they freckle in the sunshine like a babe that’s
newly bom ;
Where the heat is just too dreadful, yet the shearers
never sweat;
Where we shear with such precision that we’ve
cut no sheep as yet;
Where the vulgar game of “euchre” and the
educative “crib ”
Are a horror to the shearer that has never told a
fib;
Where the “boss” is mighty pious and he never
gives the “sack,”
And the “ shed’s cut out ” and “ gaunts in ” ere a
man goes on “ the track
Where the nigger sheds an odour like the perfume
of the rose,
And no longer trades his lubra of the classic
Roman nose;
Where we get three pounds a hundred, and are
“ tuckered ” like a “swell,”
And the cooks are mighty civil —always ready, too,
as well ;
Where the “ boss ” will mount a ’cycle and patrol
the “ board ” in style,
For we number very many, and the board’s a good
old mile;
Where the “ ringer ” shears four hundred, and th H
water in the tin
Is in quite a state of ferment when he jabs tht,
bee-bows in;
And, although we number many, yet in all the
blessed “ swim ”
There is not a gentle shearer of the name of Bill
or Jim.
Now, don’t elevate your eyebrows, as a man
inclined to doubt,
For we’re shearing on the Speewaa, and we hall
from furthest out,
And the men afraid to come here through tor
desert and the bush
Have no right to doubt our doings while thvy
liquor with the “ push.”
R.F.D.


“The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics,” by Ernest Favenc. From The Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. Go. (Ltd.), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
The great, big, sad, joyous heart of Aus-
tralia pulses through “A Golden Shanty,” by
Bulletin writers, filling this characteristic little
book with the wail of the curlew, the laughter of
the goburra, and the breezy freshness of the gales
that blow through the Blue Mountain eucalypts.
Posted over Australasia for Is. 3d.; elsewhere,
Is. fid.
A DEAD
LOSS
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In 188— I was sent by my ‘ ‘ owners ”to an
Island in the S.W. Pacific where they had a trad-
ing business, the man in charge of which had, it
was believed, got into trouble by shooting a
native. My instructions were to investigate the
rumour, and, if the business was suffering in any
way, to take away the trader and put another man
in his place. The incident here related is well
within the memory of some very worthy men who
still dwell under tne roofs of thatch in the Western
Pacific.
# • • t
The name of the island was—well, say
Nukupapau. We sailed from Auckland in Decem-
ber, and made a smart run till we sighted the blue
peaks of Tutuila, when the trades failed us and
There was a coarse man of Dunedin
Very free with the adjective bleedin’,
But a Christian young man
Showed the risks that he ran
In thus his soul’s welfare impeding.
heavy weather came on from the westward. Up
to this time my duties as supercargo had kept me
busy in the trade-room, and I had had no time to
study our new captain, for, although we met at
table three times a day, beyond a few civilities we
had done no talking. Captain Chaplin was young
—about 30—and one of the most taciturn persons
I had ever met. Our mate, who, having served
the owners for about 20 years, felt himself privi-
leged, one night at supper asked him
in his Irish fashion apropos of nothing: ‘ ‘ An’
phwat part av the wurruld may yez come from,
captain?”
There were but the five of us present —the
skipper, two mates, boatswain, and myself. _ Lay-
ing down his knife and fork and stirring his tea,
he fixed his eyes coldly on the inquisitive sub s
face.
“ From the same God-forsaken hole as you do,
sir—lreland. My name isn’t Chaplin, but as I m
the captain of this rotten old hooker I want you
to understand that if you ask me another such
d d impertinent question you’ll find it a risky
business for you—or anyone else I”
The quick blood mounted up to the old mate s
forehead, and I thought a fight was coming, but
the captain had resumed his supper and the matter
ended. But it showed us that he meant to keep to
himself.
# • *
We made the low-lying atoll at last and
fay-to outside. W^e could see the trader s house
close to us, but instead of being surrounded by a
swarm of eager and excited natives there was not
one to be seen. Nor could we even see a canoe
coming off. I pointed this out to the captain.
Although of an evidently savage and morose tem-
perament he was always pleasant enough to me in
my capacity of supercargo, and enquired if I
thought the trader had been killed.
“No,” I said, “I don’t think the people here
would ever kill Martin ; but something is wrong.
He has not hoisted his flag and that is very queer.
I can see no natives about his place—which also is
curious; and the village just there seems to be
deserted. If you will lower the boat 111 soon see
what’s wrong.”
* • •
The skipper called out to lower the whale-
boat, put four Rotumah boys in her and then
offered to accompany me. As he was a new man, I
naturally was surprised at his wanting to leave his
ship at a strange place.
“Glad enough,” I said, “the landing here is
beastly—lucky if we escape getting stove-m going
Dver the reef. Martin knows the passage well
Mid tackles it in any surf—wish he were here
now!” , . „ . ,
Captain Chaplin soon took that off my mind.
Unconsciously I gave him the steer-oar, and in a
few minutes we were flying over the reef at a half-
tide, and never touched anywhere.
“ Why,” I said, “ you seem to know the place.
“I do” he answered quietly, “know it well,
and know Martin, too. You’ll find him drunk.”
We walked up the white path of broken coral
and stood in the doorway of the big fronbroom.
At the far end, on a native sofa, lay Martin ; by
his side sat a young native girl fanning him. No
one else.
The gaunt black - whiskered trader tried to
rise, but with a varied string of oaths lashed
together he fell back, waving his hand to
me in recognition. The girl was not a native of
the island—l could see that at a glance. She was
as handsome as a picture, and, after giving us a
dignified greeting, in the Yap (Caroline Islands)
dialect, she resumed her fanning and smoking her
cigarette.
“Martin,” I said, “shake yourself together.
What is the matter ? Are you sick, or is it only
the usual drunk ?”
“Both,” came in tones that sounded as if his
inside were lined with cottonwool; “got a knife
in my ribs six months back ; never got well; and
I’ve been drinking all the time ” —and then, with
a silly smile of childish vanity, “ all over her.
She’s my new girl, wot d’ye think of her. Ain’t
she a star ?”
* * #
All this time Chaplin stood back until I
called him up and said to the trader, “ Our new
captain, Martin !”
“ By God,” said the trader, slowly, “if he ain’t
the image of that nigger-catching skipper
that was here from Honolulu four year ago.”
“ That’s me ! ” said Chaplin, coolly puffing
away at his cigar, and taking a seat near the sofa
with one swift glance of admiration at the face of
the girl.
In a few minutes Martin told his troubles.
Some seven months previously a ship had called at
the island. He boarded her. She was a whaler
making south to the Ker-
madecs “sperming.” The cap-
tain told Martin he had come
through the Pelews and picked
up a big canoe with a chief’s
retinue on board, nearly dead
from starvation. Many of them
did die on board. Among those
left were two women, the wife
and daughter of the chief, who
Now, this very coarse man of Dunedin
Disapproved of this pious proceeding,
So he settled his hash
With one violent bash ,
“ And I think our friend’s nose is now bleedin'."
was the first to
die. Making a
long story
short, Martin
gave the cap-
tain trade and
cash to the
tune of five
hundred dol-
lars for the
two women, and came ashore. “Pensioning off”
his other wife, he took the young girl himself and
sold the mother to the local chief for a ton of
copra. A week afterwards a young native came
outside his house, cutlass in hand. He was a
brother of the dismissed wife and meant fighting.
Martin darted out, his new love standing calmly
in the doorway, smoking. There was a shot, and
the native fell with a bullet through his chest, hut
raising his voice he called to others and flung them
his cutlass; and then Martin found himself
struggling with two or three more and got a
fearful stab. That night the head men of
the village came to him and said that as
he had always been a good man to them
they would not kill him, but they then
and there tabooed him till he either killed his new
wife or sent her away. And when he looked out
in the morning he saw the whole village going
away in canoes to the other side of the lagoon.
For six months neither he nor the girl—Lunumala
was her name—had spoken to a native. And
Martin gave himself up to love and drink, and,
since the fracas , had not done a cent’s worth of
trading.
I told Martin my instructions. He only
nodded, and said something to the girl, who rose
and brought me his books. A few minutes’ look-
ing through them, and then at his well-filled
trade-room, showed me everything was right,
except that all the liquor was gone.
“ Martin,” I said, “ this won’t do. I’ve got
another man aboard, and I’ll put him here and
take you to Rotumah. ”
But he swore violently. He couldn’t go any-
where else. This island was his home. The
natives would give in some day. He’d rather cut
his throat than leave.
“ Well,” I said, “it’s one of two things. You
know as well as I do that a tabu like this is a
serious business. I know you are the best man for
the place ; but, if you won’t leave, why not send
the girl away ?”
No, he wouldn’t send her away. She should
stay, too.
“ All serene,” I said. “ Then I’ll take stock at
once, and we’ll square up and I’ll land the other
man.”
This was a crusher for poor Martin. I felt
sorry for him, and had a hard duty to carry
through.
Presently the sick man with a ten-ton oath
groaned, “—— you, Mister Skipper, wot are you
a-doin’ of there squeezin’ my wife’s hand ?”
“Well, now,” said the captain quietly ; “look
here, Martin. Just put this in your thick head
and think it out in five minutes. You’ve either
got to give up this girl or get away from the
island. Now, I don’t want to make any man feel
mean, but she don’t particularly care about you,
The graceful creature nodded her approval of
Chaplin’s remarks, and Martin glared at her.
Then he took a drink of gin and meditated.
Two minutes passed. Then Martin turned.
“ How much ?” he said.
“ Fifty pounds, sonny. Two hundred and titty
dollars.” . . „
“ Easy to see you’ve been in the business,
mumbled Martin ; ‘ ‘ why, her mother s worth
that. ’Tain’t no deal. ”
“ Well, then, how much do you want?
“ A hundred.”
“ Haven’t got it on board, sonny. Take eighty
sovereigns and the rest in trade or liquor ?”
“It’s a deal.” said Martin; “are you game to
part ten sovereigns for the girl’s mother, and 111
get her back from the natives ?”
“No,” said Chaplin, rising; “the girl’s enough
forme.” . ...
She had risen and was looking at Martin with
a pallid face and set teeth, and then_ without a
word of farewell on either side she picked up a
Panama hat and, fan in hand, walked down to the
boat and got in, waiting for Chaplin.
Presently he came down, and said, ‘ ‘ Well,
Mr. . I suppose, as matters arranged,
you’ll want to land Martin some trade ?”
“Oh, no,” I said, “he’s got plenty. This tabu
on his own business will teach him a lesson. But
I want to send him some provisions on shore. By
the way, captain, that girl’s likely to prove
expensive to you. I hope you’ll put her ashore at
Rotumah till the voyage isnearly over.”
“No,” said he, “ I,won’t. Of course, I know
our godly owners would raise a deuce of a row
about my buying the girl if I couldn’t pay for her
keep while she’s on board, but I’ve got a couple of
hundred pounds in Auckland, as they know,
besides some cash on board. After I’ve paid that
thundering blackguard I’ve still some left, and 1
mean to put her ashore at Levuka to live untd i
can take her to
her destination. ”
“Why,” I
queried, “ what
are you going to
do with her ? ”
“Just this ;
there’s a friend of
mine in Hono-
lulu always will-
This coarse deed of the man of Dunedin
Our friend felt that he scarcely agreed in —
That he struck on a patch
Is a joke you will catch —
The result you can see without reading.
ing to give a few thousand
dollars for a really hands ome
girl. And I believe that
girl will bring me nearly
about three thousand dol-
lars.”
* * *
For three months the
girl remained on board,
grave, dignified and always self - possessed.
Chaplin treated her kindly, and it was evident
to us all that the girl of 17 had given him such
affection as she was capable of and little knew his
intentions regarding her future. With both
Chaplin and myself she would now converse freely
in the Pelew Island dialect. And often pointing
to the sinking sun she would sigh—“ There is my
land over there behind the sun. When will we
get there ?” Laying her hand on Chaplin’s
she would seek for an answer. And he would
answer by saying nothing.
* * *
After we had cruised through the Line
Islands we headed back for Rotumah and Fiji. •
The girl came up on deck after supper. It was
blowing freshly and the barque was slipping
through the water fast. Lunumala walked to the
binnacle and looked at the compass, pointing to
S.S.W. She gazed steadily at it awhile and then
said to the Rotumah boy in his own tongue
“ Why is the ship going to the South ?”
Tom, the Rotuman, grinned—“ To Fiji, my
white tropic bird.”
Just then Chaplin came on deck, 'cigar in mouth.
The girl and he looked at each other. He knew
by her white, set face that mischief was brewing.
Pointing, with her left hand, to the compass,
she said, in a low voice :
“To Fiji?”
“Yes,” said Chaplin, coolly, “to Fiji, where
you must remain awhile, Lunumala.”
“And you?”
“ That is my business. Question me no more
now. Go below and turn in. ”
Standing there before him, she looked again in
his hard, unrelenting face. Then she slowly
walked forward.
“Sulky,” said Chaplin.
Steadily she walked along the deck, and then
mounted to the to’gallant fo’c’sle and stood a
second or two by the cathead. Her white dress
flapped and clung to her slender figure, as she
turned and looked aft at us, and her long, black
hair streamed out like a pall of death. Suddenly
she sprang over.
With a curse Chaplin rushed to the wheel, and
in double-quick time the whaleboat was lowered
and search was made. In half-an-hour Chaplin
returned, and gaining the deck said, in his usual
cool way, to the mate: “Hoist in the boat and
fill away again as quick as possible.” Then he
went below.
A few minutes afterwards he was at his accus-
tomed amusement, making tortoise-shell ornaments
with a fret-saw.
“ A sad end to the poor girl s life, 1 said.
“ Yes,” said the methodical ex-Honolulu black-
birder, “ and a sad end to my lovely five hundred
dollars.”
LOUIS BECKE.
A Ditty of Dead Men Three.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Three dead men lay in a dealer’s yard,
In a dirty yard three dead men lay,
Surrounded by fest’ring bones.
Their mouths awry, their necks deep scarred,
Three dead men rose at the dawn of day,
And sang in sepulchral tones ;
Three songs sang they which none might hear,
Save only the breeze as it trembled near—
The zephyr that bore their breath away,
And brought to the bard, in the morning gray,
This ditty of dead men three,
Strange ditty of dead men three.
“ I was a bottle of choice champagne
At a marriage feast they drank me dry
(Now, gay is the dead man’s song),
“ A happier bride and a fonder swain
Will never be joined by nuptial tie
Together, for one life long.
I was a bottle of joy too brief.
Bitter the cry of the husband’s grief :
Ere ever a year could pass them by,
She blessed a babe with her parting sigh,”
Sang one of the dead men three,
The first of the dead men three.
“ I was a bottle of Rhine wine rare,
Full of virtue strong, and purpose brave •
Heigbo ! for the dead man’s song—
But I wrought a wrong to a maiden fair
Whose glass was charged by a wealthy knave.
Her faith in his truth beat strong.
I was a bottle of madness sweet,
Aiding the craft of a heartless cheat.
Little he honored the gift she gave;
In shame she sank to a nameless grave,”
Sang one of those dead men three,
The second of dead men three.
“ I was a bottle of brandy old,
The last of my lowly master’s store”—
Thank God for the dead man's song !
“ He bore me forth in the darkness cold ;
He strode apace, though his feet were sore,
The length of his journey long,
I was a bottle of sunshine bright,
Brought to the widow that wintry night.
Her son was mute, but he laughs once more ;
I saved his life when I warmed his core,”
Sang one of those dead men three.
The last of the dead men three.


THE LITTLE
DUCHESS
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He was the clerk of the cash tramway, and when
the rolling balls gave him a moment’s leisure
used to look down from his high perch at the big
shop beneath his feet, and, in his slow, quiet style,
study the ways of the numberless assistants whose
life-books thus opened to him so many of their
pages.
Lately there had come to the . place
a slight, grey - eyed girl, who wore her
black dress with such grace, and held her small
head with such dignity, that he whimsically
had named her to himself “ The Little
Duchess.” He liked to look down and catch
a glint of her hair’s sunshine when his brain was
dulled with calculating change, and his fingers
ached with shutting cash-balls and despatching
them on their journeys. And he used to wonder
greatly how any customer could hesitate to buy
silks and satins when their lustre and sheen were
displayed by her slim little fingers, and the quality
descanted on with so persuasive a smile. There
were handsomer girls in the shop, girls with finer
figures and better features ; but to the boy in his
mid-air cage there were none with the nameless
dainty charms that made the little Duchess so
lovable.
For, of course, he did
love her. In less than
two months he had begun
to watch for her cash-
ball with a trembling
eagerness, to smooth out
and stroke gently the bill
her fingers had written,
and to wrap it and its
change up again with a
careful tenderness that,
I may promise you, no
one else’s change and
bill received. He had
spoken to her half-a-
dozen times in all; twice
at the door on leaving—•
weather-remarks to which
she had responded graci-
ously, once or twice about
bills that she had come
to rectify at the desk, and
once he had had the great
good fortune to find and
return a handkerchief
she had dropped. Such
a pretty, ridiculous atom
of muslin it was, with a
fanciful “Nellie” taking
up one quarter, and some
delicate scent lending a
subtle fascination that
had made it a real wrench
for the lad to take it
from his breast - pocket
and proffer it to her.
So great a wrench, in-
deed, that he proffered
his love, too, humbly
but fervently, and re-
ceived a very wondering
look from the grey eyes,
a badly-concealed smile,
a “Thank you” for the
handkerchief, and a
“ No, thank you!” for
the love.
He had kissed her,
though, and that was some
consolation afterwards to
his sore spirit, kissed
her right upon the sweet scarlet lips which had
said “No ’ so decidedly, and then, bold no
longer, had fled the shelter of the friendly packing,
cases and beaten a retreat to his desk aloft.
That was nearly a fortnight ago; not once since
had she spoken to him, and to-day he was feeling
desperate.
It had been a very busy morning, and he
had found hardly a second to raise his eyes
from his work ; the once that he had looked down
she had been busy with a customer, a girl prettily
dressed and golden-headed like herself. That had
been at about 10 o’clock; before 12 her cash-box,
with the notch upon it that his pen-knife had
made, rolled down its line and he opened it as he
had opened it twenty times that morning, but
this time it bore his fate. Besides the bill
there was a little twisted note with “ John
Walters, private,” written upon it, and the boy’s
very heart leaped at the sight. Down below cus-
tomers wearily waited for change, and anxiously
watched for their own particular ball while the
deus ex machina read again and again with eager
eyes, “Please will you meet me at lunch-time on
the Strand. Do, if you can. lam in trouble,
You said you loved me.” Then, as he began
mechanically to manipulate the waiting balls, he
looked down to the accustomed place of the little
Duchess. She was pale, he saw, and her lips
trembled oddly now and again; there was a
frightened look in her grey eyes, and once or twice
he thought he noticed a sparkle as of tears.
At lunch-time he actually tore through the shop
and away down to the appointed place. She was
there, still pale, still nervous and fluttering.
“ Let us go to the Gardens, it’s quieter,” he said,
putting a great restraint upon himself; then,
when at last they were within the gates, “God
bless you for this, Nellie !”
“What?” said the girl uncertainly, but not
looking at the dark, rugged face that was all aglow
with love for her.
“ For telling me about the worry—asking me to
come. Oh, God bless you, Nellie, now tell me.”
She sat down on a seat and began to cry quietly
and miserably till the boy was almost beside him-
self. At last, between the sobs, he learned her
trouble, which was grave indeed. She and her
sister had very much wanted to go to a certain
ball, and more than that to have new dresses for
it, of soft white Liberty silk, such as she cutoff daily
for fortunate customers. But her purse was
empty, so in their emergency the sisters had hit
upon a plan, questionable indeed, but not dis-
honestly meant. The sister came to the silk
counter and purchased 30 yards of silk, paying
15s. for it instead of £3 15s.
“ That was on account; I was only taking a little
credit like other customers,” said the little Duchess
with a haughty movement of the head. “On
Saturday I was going to make out a bill for an
imaginary customer and send the £3 up to the
desk to you. Don’t imagine I would really wrong
the firm by a halfpenny.”
“Oh, no,” cried the boy, eagerly; “it’s all
right.”
“ That’s not all.” The girl began to cry again,
hopelessly, miserably. “ I had no money to get
the dresses made, and the next customer paid
£2 10s., and—and—l only sent 10s. up to you—l
wanted to make it just £5 I had borrowed. I
thought I might borrow enough as I was borrow-
ing—don’t forget, I would rather have died than
have stolen the £5, Mr. Walters.”
“Of course, of course, I understand,” said the
cash-clerk, seeing it was a worse fix than he had
imagined, but longing to take her in his arms and
kiss away the tears.
“And then that horrid Mr. Greaves, who
igned first in a hurry, asked for my book and
took it for something, and then sent it up to the
desk, and the figures are all confused, and the
check-leaf isn’t the same as I sent to you. I
hadn’t time to make it right, and when the books
are compared to-night it will be noticed, and I
shall get into trouble, and, oh, I am so miser-
able.” The little Duchess was sobbing pitifully,
He kissed her this time in earnest, on the lips,
the cheeks, the hair, the tear-wet eyes. I think
he would be kissing her still, only a gardener’s
form, and especially his smile, obtruded them-
selves upon their notice, and they sat apart look-
ing foolish till the two o’clock bells made them
hurry back to the shop.
“I’ll put everything right—don’t you worry,”
he said, and she smiled relievedly and went to her
counter.
That afternoon he did what all the other years
of his life he had deemed impossible for him to do.
He made a neat alteration in his books so that the
£5 in question would not be missed. To-morrow,
he resolved, ho would take £5 of his own and pay
it into the account of the firm. The little Duchess
should be his debtor and run no more risks.
But alas for the morrow 1
Ere he had fairly taken his seat in the morning,
before Nellie had finished fastening at her neck
the violets he had brought her, some words were
said at his elbow, and he slowly became aware
that he—surely it was a dream! was being
arrested for defalcations in his accounts. He
learned that for some time past the firm had been
aware of considerable discrepancies in the books
and had placed a detective-accountant in the
office. Last night, for the first time, the man had
discovered, as he thought, a clue, and had con-
vinced the firm that in Walters he had found the
offender.
The lad was ashen-pale, horror-stricken, as he
realised how these things must go against him.
He could not drag in the name of the little
Duchess—even if he did it would not avail him
much ; he certainly had altered his book, and to
mention the girl’s share would only be to have
two of them brought to trial and perhaps to gaol.
The little Duchess in gaol! That hair catch-
ing the prison - yard sunshine ! That slender
form clad in the garments of shame! The boy
drew a deep breath, gave one very wistful glance
at the silk counter, and then walked straight to
the manager’s room, followed by the policeman.
“ I took the five pounds yesterday and brought
it back to-day. On my oath before God, sir, I have
never misapplied one other farthing of my moneys.”
His voice trembled in its eagerness, the deep-
set eyes gleamed, and the white lips worked.
“Your purpose, Walters?” The manager
looked hard, disbelieving.
“Direst need ; oh, believe me, sir, I have served
you three years honestly as man can serve—yester-
day I borrowed this money and brought it back
this morning—don’t ruin my whole life for that
one act.”
“ Your pressing need yesterday ? ”
John drew a deep breath again. “ I —can’t
well tell you.”
Then the heads of the firm came in, indignant
at their rais-used trust, and they scorned his story.
The defalcations amounted to almost .£5O in all,
and he had confessed to £5 which had been found
upon him. Of course, he and no other was the
offender, and they must teach their employes a
lesson. So John walked down that long shop by
the side of the official, his head very erect, his
face pale and his knees shaking; all his life he would
remember the glances of pity, curiosity and dis-
dain that met him on
every side. As he passed
the silk counter the little
Duchess was measuring
a great piece of rose-red,
sheeny satin thatgleamed
warm and beautiful be-
neath herhands. She was
very white, and in her
eyes was a look of abject
horror and entreaty ;
his eyes re-assured her,
and he passed on and out
of the door. Yes, all his
life he would remember
that rose-red satin and
its brilliant, glancing
lights.
After the trial every-
one thought him fortu-
nate to get only two
years, and the little
Duchess, who had grown
thin and ancient-look-
ing, breathed freely as
she read the account in
the papers and saw that
her name was not even
mentioned in connection
with the matter. He
wrote to her a loving,
boyish letter, and told her
she must be true to him
till he came out, and that
then they would be mar-
ried and go away where
this could never be heard
of.
It was no small thing
he had done for her, he
knew, and as he was not
more than human he ex-
pected his reward. And
the little Duchess had
cried quietly over the
letter, and for several
days cut off silk and
satin with a pensive,
unhappy look that quite
touched her customers—
those few among them
who realised that it was human flesh and blood
at the other side of the yard-measure.
Twenty months later the little Duchess was
at the same counter measuring silk and satin for
the stock-taking, when a note was brought to her
in a writing she remembered too well.
“I got out to-day. Nellie, come down to the
Gardens in the lunoh-time.”
She hesitated when the time came, but, you see,
he might come to the shop and that would never
do. So she put her hat on thoughtfully and set
out for the Domain.
He was awaiting her on the seat where, two
years ago, the gardener had smiled at them. He
stood up as she came slowly toward him, and for
a minute they gazed at each other without
speaking.
She was in black, of course, bub fresh and
dainty-looking, with a bunch of white chiffon at
her throat, with her little tan shoes, and her hair
showing golden against the black of her lace hat.
For him, his face had altered and hardened, the
once thick, curling hair was horribly shorter, his
hands were rough and unsightly, hia clothes
hung awkwardly upon him, and his linen was
doubtful.
“ The little Duchess !” he said, dully ; then he
put out his hand, took her small gloved one and
looked at it curiously.
“ I—l am glad you’re out,” she said, carefully
looking away from him,
“Yes —we must be married now, Nellie, that’s
all I’ve had to think about all this awful time.”
His face flushed a little under its tan and his eyes
lightened.
“It’s good not to see the walls,” he added,
looking round at the spring’s brave show,, theft
away to the blue sparkle in the bay and the'
glancing sails. ‘‘We mustn’t talk of that time
though ever, eh, Nellie.”
“No,” she said, regarding her brown shoes
intently.
His eye noted the smooth roundpess of her
cheek, the delicate pink that came and went, the
turn of the white neck.
“ Aren’t you going to kiss me, Nellie ?” he said,
slowly, and he drew her a little strangely and
awkwardly to him. v
Then she spoke.
“ I knew it wouldn’t be any use, and you’d
never have any money or get a place after this.
We couldn’t be married on nothing, and it would
only drag you down to have me, too. I’m not
worthy of you.”
“ Well, little Duchess,” he said, softly, as she
stopped and faltered ; a slow smile crept over his
face and his deep-set eyes lighted up with tender-
ness.
Not worthy, his little Duchess !
Then the crimson rushed into her face and she
flung up her head defiantly.
“I married the new shop-walker, four months
ago."
Sydney.
ETHEL S. TURNER.
THE TWO DEVINES
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was shearing-time at the Myall Lake,
And there rose the sound thro’ the livelong
day
Of the constant clash that the shear-blades
make
When the fastest shearers are making play,
But there wasn’t a man in the shearers’ lines
That could shear a sheep with the two Devines,
They had rung the sheds of the east and west,
Had beaten the cracks of the Walgelt side,
And the Cooma shearers had giv’n
When they saw them shear, they Were
satisfied.
From the southern slopes to the western pines
They were noted men, were the two Devines.
’Twas a wether flock that had come to hand,
Great struggling brutes, that the shearers
shirk,
For the fleece was tilled with the grass and
sand,
And seventy sheep was a big day’s work.
“ At a pound a hundred it’s dashed hard lines
To shear such sheep,” said the two Devines.
But the shearers knew that they’d make a
cheque
When they came to deal with the station
ewes;
They were bare of belly and bare of neck
With a fleece as light as a kangaroo’s.
“We will show the boss how a shear-blade
shines
When we reach those ewes,” said the two
Devines.
But it chanced next day when the stunted pines
Were swayed and stirred with the dawn-
wind’s breath,
That a message came for the two Devines
That their father lay at the point of death.
So away at speed through the whispering pines
Down the bridle-track rode the two Devines.
It was fifty miles to their father’s hut,
And the dawn was bright when they rode
away ;
At the fall of night when the shed was shut
And the men had rest from the toilsome day,
To the shed once more through the dark’ning
pines
On their weary steeds came the two Devines.
“ Well, you’re back right sudden,” the super,
said ;
“ Is the old man dead and the funeral done ? ”
“ Well, no, sir, he ain’t not exactly dead,
But as good as dead,” said the eldest son—
“ And we couldn’t bear such a chance to lose,
So we came straight back to tackle the ewes.’*
They are shearing ewes at the Myall Lake,
And the shed is merry the livelong day
With the clashing sound that the shear-blades
make
When the fastest shearers are making play,
And a couple of “ hundreds and ninety nines ”
Are the tallies made by the two Devines.
THE BANJO.


THE CAPTAIN'S RETURN.
UfTfC STREET THt ,ti L €0 B£/>vRD
In Joyous and jestinc aoop, as one &
In w 0 /-\am p£oP(e he a* PeMtPg
L"\fc ?hAPoW<). OneTACt AjpNE WA<, €/ES ; K
The.Tacl that in hap e^e^his
1W, /aoon|jK v £ THE Tide oT ja»S anoonwar!^
oreW,
/NS HE PAcEP rn€ D€CK By NlCnTTHE STaW ANO S£/=A *
B e i vvte n, v N
/\* rtE, PaCCPTae wy IN THE w\tDVT oT
fAQi\e fi/soParsed since i*VT,/nTea\s and
vNtiL-L oVeoT^ ce He c? N /Ts coi\£ CANpseP,
'TwaST+IE PAy Ht S AI[EP /*^ A / rtl<i s ' H,PTo lH€ l^ OUlh se^
evtfi r MN( - witf,NC '
-r-c « ■* 5ouNOToT y‘Tuf p
In sPile oTxnfe JttV H 15 L ' ,
He anchor rt.S poTeS «T« «£^ToT a
M.am wfc s*WV» ™ "‘f\*>l} To W
/AanYanp iHMty AT, At « ep pl£, A EP Kt \ < ' , ' zm< ' POVVN
„6K Wl' 11 ' 1 ' OTT "' ’ t ' 1
A"T HtTT INTMX. PoR T 6xx oWTH E T -A
VMKTTUIC7 wowA-NO. ~H« p w.u L o "t
J5/\V.
OH |0V£n«AvK'»NK“'*^ NC, l? V€ -^ A P''' 1 ' C ''! Cr - 1
T,^ o, ' p ° Nt ' s T,, ' u,i " TS ata^' Ti '
Act. X«N W«? ni«rfAK(»U« *M T
h€\a»«nt H p iB'' NP / wl>N<i »« pi^tanT
Amp -T * T ° ° T TnE
A, sTo £ vTm ™ ’ a7 B / PA /
ATTHCThXtoTTh. Joy S o W -ou L 0HCA V
ML -V -ON «>S Cp-
/NloTrtf.HE WAS WISE. /ou\H
Cou«T«S Ort -V<«T »H«M <TS CU?ToT«E .
A fo“ He hk,ownh °lf ■ H'* cup •** W0U L°
C 0 Atf-AIW • « B«»
&««s ■« «^ T
OT Tnt
AN pl°?u^PoF? n \'wo^e T„.N OCATH « H'S^K.
b t L cAot «'s the tla * LE ”
c;ea\qT L.ov£
Tne VvorsAri THAT apo«\ep - ,r4Trt£ NN ‘ S °
oT»\t '.
H c.
o V -3 “I TJ
■* i*" s*
\n>?s
T>\w I PE-/ Nil
AT _
>
The a* n was Younc^ ( he couidjee ; and ne hep.
BAN D, o\JP ' 'A
Va/iTh wrinkles abound £yes . and ha'RThat was
. L o^
«£CIo 0 n" 0 1>Vh> -" EN
WAS aTTERAVoYa^E^I^
TeIT as a captain Tee l svv _2 E / _• ' N
W.Trt i(\on COAM S AnD^EEES/AnP
■« ,sYH?E P “^'/SLL ort 0 rtL N >NTIE -T«E-O^L 0
S ,«T oT PORT is w ¥ ckepon a h.ooen
fluT L E/ES THAT *.*.« « T^ ED
cA^^^ lo uo < oT
T|\oAth€ BA^ Er^tNT c L r
Tongues oT t L^ c E ' m t,rc • BuTTHE HAP?/ anp
Cue, £B U p.T«WWi t “ T "f
i N^rTrTNE «-« ff to «s
WH.|i LTS C 'V'T E - , , TVer ?
0U UP
•Trt? SHHImS fiHL , „ __
/\H HLuSTSaTicH , JNPEEO, oT T,e (I\qnY 0>
Ae
Sound o Py s 1 <i i\i .
Opo.N \^jX^
, ' 6ReaT * M
ST ' v
'T; /
|T E 0 il p^Tartn hT
I rs 'W
*¥m
P«^^cou L o ATonilT
WHY ThiNIEoT «T ? f\iSnEVENQE rt A 0 BE£ * Ta\ e * ou ‘ oT
H 'S P .
T“ Tf e^ E fS ; .N D.OO/A- Th€ Pt*/
/
P|_/\y£t>
n . uT rf>A . E iN T,a £ To
A' d /^K» t CO/A e •” '
<r,NOE(\SUp t To AS
Tney ((4 u e m .
! ' To<;e T tt£ n L
TneNpEAUNt, outti\o/a above, H E a \
In -ns o« £ to h.^.V
Than a(J- /A° 1 c v ' /e ’ ,
LO^VH.jlCA^yHeY OVyN ' W 0 ooaß-r
Th£ CAPTAIN >SAIP, « ,'
y\ n D Then wiTn «A y TWO L
The PAI\ imthe sT^ceX
Qo woi\i\t d The de v»l_w,ThiN hi/^ ; Bu\ a
1 /vxtrA'V OE\HiN\CA^
QT T«£ PA*/S qoNE &/, oT The
l it THAT H AO LAIN ON
\\ H* V E L e Tt ii£\a\_ohe. To ° L ,0 °
i INDEEDTo
Ae SAiDTo hi^> e L F '’^ nC> J h£ " s /* e oN^
A CHI \J> A 'T" BE^T"
/fe Tcuq hT ryiS w A y upTnE s»A»*n^ w,t^
: aTacE seTHakpas stone,
I The air wiT^^ o^-^ oT 1^' v \ e ’ waS lvjP^
67" TuRNb /SN p v TttC 1 OVER*
s in»ohiSAN^ V ' TWA ' *
I maTijui-
| The no I/n\
| THEHTo OH Ml'A
| She ATTei\/vvwy paYs. He^voiceTo
r , ""a tenpe\PiTch _r
WAS Tune p. AN P she J> AN/VAE ThA
BuT Two coUIP
Anp The was T«e
o? ? Wrtvcv\
noe \oT women's HER.-S/X
. p ft [E N\ A\APf To Y ox> \ HAIH 0 J .
VICTOR J. DALEY.


The Burial of Owen
For the Bulletin
Owen Macalister and his wife were a worthy
pioneer couple who had risen to the comfortable
position they occupied by dint of hard work and
self-denial. The old man was tall, gaunt, and as
hard as nails. He had toiled until he had raised a
team of bullocks, he had worked till he had two.
He had gone on working, until now he had flocks
and herds and a large bank-balance.
His wife had, of course, degenerated into
the usual dried-up mummy of the bush, with
washed-out eyes and no interest outside the daily
routine of house-labour. The couple had retained
the somewhat primitive habits of their early days,
but they had bestowed a most liberal education on
their two surviving children—a boy and a girl—
the boy much the elder. But when these two
grew up, naturally with comparatively refined
ideas, they still could not effect much alteration
in the domestic habits of the station. Old Owen
was as stubborn as a working bullock ; and Mrs.
Macalister would have died before she allowed
that anything more could be desired than the
rough comfort of the place.
Naturally both the young people chafed at this,
especially when contrast-
ing it with the habits of
neighbors, not nearly so
well off, who were now
their equals and com-
panions. Both, however,
had sense enough to sub-
mit to the inevitable, and,
being of sterling metal,
stood by their parents
loyally and made the best
of it. Young Owen art-
fully got his father to
supply him with funds and
stock to take up country in
Northern Queensland, and
shortly afterwards pretty
Jennie’s bright eyes cap-
tured the heart of my
particular friend, Fred.
Grashaw. So both of them
had a future to look for-
ward to, and managed to
put up with the present.
Poor Owen, the younger!
I went North about the
same time as he did, and
we became neighbors there
as we had been formerly in
the old district. Gulf-
fever carried him off in less
than two years, and when
I went South I packed up
his few personal effects
and took them down with
me.
Of course the news of his
death was some months
old when I arrived, and
though I keenly felt the
gloominess of the occasion
I did not anticipate any
scene when I took the things over. Crashaw
went with me.
Now, amongst poor Owen’s traps was a plan of
his new run which he had himself constructed.
He was no great draughtsman, and had drawn it
on a large scale, especially, I think, to impress and
please the old man. The mounted paper it was on
measured something like 4x4 in feet. So it was
a coodlv roll
tituYA ij x, ,
W luie the old mother whimpered silently over
her dead son’s clothes, and big tears formed in and
fell from pretty Jennie’s eyes, Crashaw, mean-
while, whispering words of comfort, old Owen,
-.1 . • i: c f ~ , ~ , .
with his lips firmly set, sat at the table pondering
over the map.
“ You have been on the country yourself, Mr.
Craven ?” he asked. i
neighbors.”
And it would have made a fine cattle-station
had my boy lived ? ”
“ One of the best pieces of country about
there.”
rn ’ . jxfixr u- t
, , d . a ® silent, and I felt for him. I
could see he was thinking of the now impossible
future when he should some day go up there to
visit his only son on his own place. It was a cruel
stroke of Fate.
~ T . , . , ~ ,
I am glad to have seen that much, at any
rate,” he murmured. “Come!” he continued
getting up, “1 am going to bury our Owen.” He
rolled the map up carefully and left the room,
xT v , xr ~ ~ x
Nobody understood him. Mrs. Macalister,
mother-like, still cried over her lost boy’s clothes,
and the lovers were occupied with each other,
I followed the old man out. For a while I could
, cT . , .
not find him then I saw him digging under a tree.
I approached.
He had made a shallow grave, in which to put
the roll of paper, and was about to bury it
solemnly
, , , _ ~ ,
Are they coming't he asked. I mumbled
something, and turned towards the house, but the
old man detained me. “ No, no !” he said; “we
will wait. ” He handed me a prayer-book, open at
the burial-service, and reverently placed the map
of the run in the grave. “My eyes are not good,
ha explained.
What could Ido ? It would have been useless
to expostulate, and useless to refuse. I had to
read the burial-service, as I had once done formerly
over the body of young Owen himself, and, at the
thought of that, I lifted my hat and read it again
reverently. The old man covered in the grave, as,
in one sense, it truly was, and we proceeded back
to the house.
He took his seat at the table, and smote it a
mighty blow with his still hard and sinewy fist, a
blow which made us all start.
“ I forgive you, mother,” he said, “but ” (and
he looked at Jennie and Crawshaw) “ why did you
not come and attend our Owen’s burial ?”
The two looked at each other and at Macalister.
“Awe,” he continued, “his burial, I say, for
have I not just now buried his hopes, and mine?”
His voice broke, and, for the moment, I thought
that the temporary aberration of intellect which
possessed him would pass, but his nature was too
stubborn.
“Jennie,” he went on, “ Owen is dead. I com-
mand you to leave that man—that man who would
not do him honor at the last; and you, Mr.
Crashaw, leave my house !”
Jennie’s eyes flashed defiance, and Crashaw,
making a step forward, commenced :—“ Mr.
Macalister, how was I to know that ”
But the old man would not let him speak.
“ Leave my house,” he repeated.
“ Father,” said Jennie, “ what cam you mean ?
Neither Fred nor myself could possibly know
what you intended.”
“I said it plainly enough,” the old father re-
peated. “Mr. Craven !” he went on ; “ you stood
by my boy’s grave, you stood with me just now
when we buried his hopes, and mine. You are a
true man. Will you have my Jennie ?”
Up to this, the scene had been intensely pain-
ful. The bitter disappointment to the old man’s
strong, self-contained nature, caused by the loss of
his last son and all that was bound up in him,
was most moving; but now ! Jennie and I had
always been good friends, but as for being man
and wife—we were as far asunder as the poles.
Jennie gave a terrified start, and Crashaw
glowered.
“Macalister!” I said, “I would have been
most proud, but, unfortunately, I am about to be
■ ' /■—
“ I had to read the burial service as I once did formerly over the body
of young Owen himself. ”
married to a young lady in, in—North Queens-
land.”
Heaven forgive me for such a lie, but it was the
° 01l ma°n rose. “Mr. Crashaw, this is the
third time I have requested you to leave my
house. ”
d ennie and I both added a look of entreaty, and
j 6 J s P < ? ke , to tke °^ d woman, who had been
dazed by ber husband s conduct, and with a nod
of encouragement to Jennie, shook the old man’s
hand and joined my friend outside,
“ And all this trouble comes of you bringing
down that infernal sheet of paper,” he remarked
spde f“ B y. as we rode borne. .
And all this trouble comes of you insisting on
riding over with me in order to catch a glimpse of
Jennie,” I retorted. We rode on in silence.
“ And what’s to come of it ? ” he asked at last.
To this I could not reply. When it was evident
obstacle ? A life such as his, a masterful life,
could not be baulked without someone suffering!
P ar ted, of course, on the best of terms ; but
still—Crashaw could not help his temper. Next
morning I thought I would ride over and see how
things were progressing, as my friend was debarred
from doing so. Turning the last bend about half
a mile from the place, I met a man coming so fast
ba V) e i m a, riy ran into me.
n iJ J Ven ’ 1 was °° miu B for y° u .” he said .
as he pulled up.
I guessed as much and pushed on.
Jennie met me outside the door,
“ Don’t, don’t, promise anything,” she sobbed,
, Macalister lay on his deathbed : of that one
glance assured me. His big heart was broken.
“Mr. Craven,” he said, as I sat on the chair
and took his hand. “As a true man, promise me
this.” His voice broke, and I stooped lower.
v Wife ! he suddenly called, and thrust out his
shrunken hand, bhe was there, and, at the call
Jennie came in and I put her in my place. It was
right he should die with those he had toiled for
beside him.
I heard him say “Jennie;” then, “Owen!”
with such a tone of love in the last name; and
°ne of the grandest old men I ever knew had
gone for another incarnation,
Deloomym.
Dispersed:
A LAY OF THE HERBERTON HOT SPRINGS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Sixteen ten !” Jim Garbett said.
“Twenty quid !” said the station boss ;
“ Why, man, your father’d stand on his head
If he heerd you offer that for the boss.
Him as was foaled from a Kelpie mare,
Him as was sired by a Tamerlane colt;
S’help me, Jim, if you don’t take care,
God’ll strike you dead with a thunderbolt !”
This was the gist
Of his talk, and resist
It who could—Jim Garbett felt that he couldn’t;
So, though at first he swore he wouldn’t,
He made it a bargain, and gave his fist.
Twenty pounds ! It’s a heap of money !
Wish I had twenty pounds—don’t you ?
Twenty pounds ! A chap would feel funny
To find next morning he owned an old screw,
With the glamour off,
A mark for the scoff
Of every carnation station toff,
While his twenty pounds looked dismally blue.
But this was not Jim Garbett’s case :
His next morning fled apace
In feeding and grooming and watching his prize
With all an owner’s pride in his eyes.
For it needed only a glance to see
The colt was as good as his pedigree,
And you know what that was as well as me.
Dainty head and well-set feet,
Sloping shoulder, pastern neat,
Deep round chest, with a powerful loin,
Shape where strength and beauty join.
What was his color? Blaek, you dolt!
Ah, he was a picture, Jim Garbett’s colt.
All that night, while Garbett slept,
Visions impossible over him crept—
Fabulous sweepstakes, a wonderful cup,
A black colt entered, with owner up.
“ Woh, there ; steady ! ” Falls the flag;
They’re off ! Now, Mulligan, prove your brag !
Once round —still the brown mare leads —
Ah ! she’s none of your station weeds.
Half-way round —the pace is fast—
Jove, it’s a cracker ! —can she last?
Ten lengths from home the race is hers ;
All is over, Mulligan swears;
But he comes through the crowd like a crossbow
bolt,
Heads her, beats her —Jim Garbett’s colt 1
When the first streak of dawn
Took the night into pawn,
Jim Garbett got up from his bed with a yawn;
For the blacks were about
Spearing cattle, and doubt
Of his own little mob’s peace had found Garbett
out.
The black colt was yarded—’twould do him no
harm,
A run down the creek —so, with bridle on arm,
He reached the paddock, and rubbed his eyes
In unmistakeable surprise,
Which changed to fear, as with a frown
He saw that both the rails were down,
While in the dust at a gum-tree’s root
Were the marks of toes that had never worn boot,
And empty yard, and morning sky,
And mocking breeze that whistled by,
And a fat old crow who hovered on high
With a world of malice in his eye,
All seemed to echo Jim’s gasp of “ Tracks!”
With a horrible chorus of “ Blacks, blacks,
blacks I”
Down in the creek the black colt lay,
Making a hole in the yellow clay ;
Three spear-wounds in his glazing side
Showed too well how the black colt died ;
Swamp-oaks murmured and sedges sang
To soothe the black colt’s last strong pang;
The swollen creek, in turbid flood,
Bore the stain of the black colt’s blood;
Everything lived above, around,
The black colt only made no sound,
Stark and still in death he lay,
Never to race till the Judgment Day.
Not for him in the pride of strength
To romp home winner by a length
From a field of heroes whose mettle tried
Was known all over the country-side ;
Not for him the exulting crowd,
Cheers and plaudits, triumph proud;
Death on the pale horse shot his bolt—
No chance then for Jim Garbett’s colt!
Women may weep
For their dead, and steep
With tears the shroud which hides the last sleep ;
But men ! —Jim’s face grew stem and set,
Never a drop his lashes wet,
Yet there was that in the glint of his eye
Which the hardiest would not care to defy—
A something rigid about his pose,
And the curious way his fingers close,
And the heave with which his broad chest rose,
Spelling “Danger 1” plain as print to his foes.
Quietly back to fetch a spade
Walked Jim Garbett, and quietly made
A quiet grave by the side of the creek
Where the circling crows in vain might seek.
Back again, and quietly took
His gun from the pegs in the chimney nook ;
Stopped a moment to quietly say :
“Don’t wait for me, mother, at dinner to-day.”
Caught a horse, quietly rode away,
And—whatever ruse
In retreat they may choose,
To stand (if they wore ’em) in those blacks’ shoes,
I wouldn’t take Broken Hill as pay 1
It would tax most cracks
To follow the tracks
Left by that mob of fugitive blacks;
But Jim’s slow speed never seemed to relax.
Over the rocks where the scent lay weak,
Down again in the bed of a creek,
Grossing the swamp where the wild ducks hide,
Winding along the parched h'Aside,
Up the gorge where the river flowed,
Steadily, steadily Garbett rode.
Yet day was gone,
And night came on,
And still the blacks undoubtedly non
Sunt inventa, so down
Jim lay, with a frown,
While his hobbled horse cropped the herbage
brown.
Broken his sleep,
And at dawn’s first peep
He had risen, his harvest of vengeance to reap.
Not a moment he lagged,
Though his horse was fagged,
And foot after foot most wearily dragged.
Two miles were past,
And now at last
Jim’s pulses surged and his heart beat fast,
As, mounting a hill,
He saw with a thrill
Thin wreaths of blue smoke the next gully fill.
’Twas the end of his tramp,
He had come to the camp,
And felt he was free to work his will.
Out of his saddle Jim Garbett leapt,
Down the slope on his belly crept,
Kept as close as he could to the ground,
Paused on the verge, but heard no sound,
Looked to his gun, and changed the caps
(That was no time to risk mishaps)—
Then with his yell the forest rings,
As he jumps right into the—Boiling Springs !
Two days later, a horse dead lame
And a weary man to the homestead came,
The missus had to look twice at him
Before she shrieked, “ O Lord, it’s Jim !”
’Twas Jim indeed, he had failed to score, ;
And the blacks got off scot-free once morel
But the fame of the springs spread far ; ’twas said
They would make old Lazarus rise from the dead.
For fever and ague and rheumatiz,
Asthma, palsy, paralysis,
Liver complaint and chronic catarrh,
A never-failing cure they are.
And every year a greater crowd
Of pilgrims halt and crippled and bowed,
With ever greater vigour sings
The praise of Herberton hot springs,
Though they little know the phenomenal bolt
Of the niggers who speared Jim Garbett’s colt.
A. G. STEPHENS.
A
CHEAP
TURN OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jaoker poked open the door of Wilson’s slab hut,
and stood peering in at the selector. Leaning
against the jamb, his six feet of ungainly anatomy
doubled across the entrance in many absurd
angles.
“ Mawn,” he said,
“ Homin’. ”
“ See yer spuds is cornin’ on well. Wan ter buy
a gun ?”
Wilson took the gun offered him, weighed it in
his hand, tried the lock, and ran his eye along the
barrels.
“ Splendid duok-gun,”said Jacker. There were
lagoons just up the creek, and the reputation of
every gun in the district had to be made amongst
ducks.
Wilson was a selector holding about 180 acres,
thrifty, energetic, and progressive. Jacker was
also a selector, dumped on the adjoining 100 acres.
Jacker’s apparent mission in life was to officiate
as a lay-figure of some kind. He felled a tree
here and there in a desultory sort of way, and he
once put up about a chain of dog-leg fence, but
had spent most of his time since in repentance.
He owned a one-roomed hut, containing some
home-made furniture, a pannikin, and a tin plate;
he also owned a dog with three legs, and the gun.
“ Goin’t’ get married.”
“ Jee-rusalem 1 you can’t affort t’ marry, can
yeh ?”
“ Can if I sell th’ gun.”
“ But she aint worth more’n 30 bob !” ejaculated
Wilson.
“Well,” answered his visitor, miraculously
impassible, “they’ll marry yeh up town for half-a-
orown, I’ve heard.”
Wilson gasped. “Who’s to be the missus?” he
asked.
“ Dunno. Mean t’ advertise. I’m tired of
livin’ alone, that’s what’s the matter.”
“ Well, I’m blowed if you don’t bang Bannagher.
Here, take yer gun; I wouldn’t do yeh such a
dirty trick as t’ buy it under the circumstances 1”
Jacker took the gun, and tucked it up under his
arm. “ Maybe someone else will,” he replied,
sulkily, and scrambled off down the track.
Next day, Wilson heard that Aldon had bought
Jacket’s gun for 255., and in less than a week
Jaoker returned from town with a wife and
family. He had married an encumbered widow.
Melb.
R.D.


A PROBLEM IN
PETTICOATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was matron of an Australian metro-
politan hospital, and her name was Ann Drink-
water. In person she was liberal, not massive;
her curves round and generous. A wreath of hair,
fine, black, and growing rather low down on her
forehead, was tucked demurely beneath the snowy
cap impotent to veil its luxuriance. Her com-
plexion was pale and pure; her large brown eyes
shone with serene brightness ; her mouth was full
and firm, with red, ripe lips; hands white, shapely,
strong and tremorless. At first sight, perhaps,
she did not strike you as handsome, but her face
and figure, critically analysed, were not unsug-
gestive of amorous possibilities. Nevertheless,
men did not fall in love with her—not in the ordi-
nary sense, at least. Because from Ann Drink water
there emanated an atmosphere not precisely of
frigidity, but anti-sensual, almost anti-sexual. Not
her modest garb alone; not the nature of her
avocation only ; but every demulcent glance of her
luminous eyes, every chaste movement of her
becoming person, every inflection of her clear,
passionless voice, proclaimed that she had either
put away or had never known the fitful fever
called love. Here was a woman you at first glance
knew had no thought to spare upon frivolities,
but fully realised the grim earnestness of a world
in which were so many aches and pains, so
many fevers and dislocated limbs. Further
acquaintance revealed that only in the per-
formance of her duties did she find pleasure;
that for her true bliss lurked in boluses, blisters,
leeches, and cognate matters —not in lovers’ sighs
and caresses. Yet she was no mere machine-
made nurse and matron. She brought all the
poetry of her nature and the imagination of her sex
to the proper preparation of pills and poultices.
She introduced fancy and high art into the
administration-of ipecacuanha and calomel. The
Chief, all unused to gush, declared that the
matron’s methods of rolling bandages, presenting
paregoric, and supervising the final details of a
death-bed, were visions of supernal joy. And she
was kind and soothing to patients—to male
patients, that is. But there was innate master-
fulness about her very mildness. Her hand and
step, light as gossamer, were strong as steel. Her
touch, comforting in its coolness, was strangely
compelling. Her movements, devoid of fluster,
were swift and certain. She was a born nurse,
perfected by arduous practice.
* # *
She was no callow girl. In her neat, but
sombre, hospital uniform she looked quite 30.
Had she worn bright colors, had her exu-
berant tresses been permitted to wanton in
love-locks, curls and waves, untrammelled _by
cap, and had a robust male arm been occasion-
ally allowed to wan
der round her supple
waist, she would
doubtless have seem-
ed years younger.
But even to imagine
such licenses in such
connection ' was pro-
fanation from which
the most; audacious
male might shrink.
For, nunlike, this
woman appeared set
apart from the casual-
ties of a wantom
world and its
love-code. The medi-
cal men who knew her
extended to her that
admiration which
they would have felt
for a skilled male col-
league, coupled, how-
ever, with the ex-
aggerated esteem and
respect medical men
entertain for a woman
so absolutely healthy
that she has" never
subjected herself to
theif professional re-
view. The male
patients adored her
with an adoration not
untinctured by awe.
So they might have
regarded the Madon-
na in a T9th century
matron’s ia p and
cuffs;
'*.V *
The nurses, the
female patients and
visiting womenfolk,
did,'not love matron
Drinkwater. They
feared her. And this
the ipote because she
Was tflcoraprehensible
to them. Her woman-
ly annor revealed
none of those chinks
through which the
feline sex appraise
each other’s faults
and vices. The
most painfully vir-
tuous, woman must
condemn and may despise her erring sister. But
the successful exercise of her perspicaciousness and
the recognition'll! the sinner of the female frailty
dormant,, yet existent, in herself, prevents the
chastest creature from really hating the most in-
continent —always provided the peccancy of the
latter doss not infringe on the preserves of the
former. When, however, neither female saints
nor sinher§ can "detect even peccadilloes in another
woman, the singularity of the phenomenon terrifies
them. And that which women fear they also hate.
And Drinkwater her conscience as lightly
and openly as her piquant apron - --neither fear
nor shame peeped out from behind her sedateness.
The wives of the married doctors spoke of the
matron as a “highly superior person,” but, being
uncomfortable in presence of so much perfection,
declined to like her. They liked her the less
because she understood, without taking advantage
of her knowledge, their respective husbands better
than did the ladies themselves. Jealous of her
intellect, they spared her person. The nurses
secretly rebelled against the emotionless rigor of
her rule, and were openly dismayed by her unfail-
ing detection of their laches. They obeyed her in
trembling. As regards feminine visitors, the
matron looked them through and through, under-
standing them; so that weeping women without
sorrow who, in the enforced absence in hospital of
their men folk, sought the devious consolations of
an Australian city, knew they were read by the
woman who spoke with grave sympathy to their
husbands or sweethearts, and without it to them.
And, as for female patients, Ann Drinkwater did
her duty to them to the last jot and tittle of the
law. Yet, even when they were dying, they
fancied they could discern in her eyes a look which
tranquilly assured them they were de trap and that
the matron would prefer not to meet them in
heaven.
# * *
In a manner not precisely maternal or
sisterlike, or saintlike, but rather a mixture of all
three with some unknown quantity, the matron
was benign to all the unmarried medical men and
sucking sawbones connected with the hospital.
And there were many methods by which she could
and did ameliorate the lot of those who had no
duly licensed woman to care for them. To be
sick, sorry, desolate, afflicted or jilted was to
possess sure passport to her benevolence. This
was, doubtless, the reason why she displayed an
indulgence almost tender to Charlie Hooper, tire
senior assistant-surgeon—a fair-headed, curly-
headed, blue-eyed and feminine-looking young
butcher known to his intimates as “Charlotte.”
His unmistakable delicacy engaged her pity ; the
defective state of his linen and the absence of
letters in a feminine hand revealed to her that he
needed and lacked feminine ministration. She
adopted him at sight. Thenceforward he knew
no care or pain a mother, sister and saint com-
bined could relieve him of. While all the other
objects of her bounty repaid it with astonished
thankfulness and veneration, Charlie accepted it
with utmost insouciance, as if conferring, not
receiving, favours. He alone ever ventured the
slightest approach to familiarity or facetiousness
with her. “It jars upon me to hear _Charlotte
chaffing Sister Ann,” declared the chief “it’s
like joking over the sacraments in church.” But
Charlie didn’t care. He would have alternated
coughing and bad puns in the very portal of para-
dise. And Ann Drinkwater listened to his jocu-
larity with an air of seraphic tolerance; and left
his door and the door of her own_ room, which
adjoined, open of a night that she might hear him
when he coughed. And she would rise a dozen
times in the dark watches to give him
physic, smooth his pillow, and lave his
hot, curly head with eau-de-cologne. She
supervised his food and garments, made him
pretty, and kept him neat. Nor did the most
censorious tongue wag loosely concerning these
things, chiefly because the matron was above
suspicion of earthly motive, partly because Hooper
was—save at the operating-table, where both his
skill and nerve were robustly masculine —essen-
tially feminine. He loved music, flowers, birds,
perfumes, and all pretty and dainty things, but
seemed to avoid the society of girls, while indulg-
ing in no masculine pursuits. His voice, tricks of
manner and appearance were all girlish. His
relations with the matron seemed those of a
thoughtless, merry girl with an elder graver
companion of the same sex.
* # *
“You were out late last night, Sister
Ann ?” remarked Charlie, one morning, early.
“ Y. S , I« on have. Why! DM you wa M
b»t y° u I,ave "’ t *•« out
latest casualty then . .
Any lung she enquired
Well yes, rather. Man mauled by I eel urn,
the old lion who eats people occasionally in
Houpla’s circus Man’s a hulking hairy fellow
with a good deal of the wjd beast u i Ins own corn-
position-manners beastly, at anyrate. beams to
We had a special down ouleekn, who rec.™-
cated. ihe Two I* tcJ
last night. Man was brutally ciuel to bon, and
lion tried to have man for supper, but only
managed to masticate some of him. rhe two
brutes had a stand-up fight, the tamer sailing in
with iron crowbar. Managed to stun non, then
jammed crowbar down its throat and killed it.
He—the man, not the lion—was brought in about
10.30, in a torn and well-blooded dress-suit, his
ugly, great fingers plastered with diamond rings,
wearing a gold chain like a ship s cable and a
locket big as a soup-plate, with a diamond like a
walnut let in. His chest is horribly mangled.
Yet his vitality is so wonderful that, barring blood-
■~/f* h
JENKS: “ Do you know, Miss Smith is so thunderingly polite that she
calls a laughing-jackass a smiling-johnnie donkey.
poisoning, he’ll recover. The fellow has the most
disconcerting eyes I ever saw belonging to any-
thing except a black leopard, and he —bah ! smells
like a cage full of panthers. ”
Here a nurse tapped at the door. “If you
please, m’m, will you come to the new casualty;
he’s going on dreadfully.”
The matron followed quietly to look at the new
patient.
1 * * *
He wasn’t pretty to look at. He was very
tall and very wide. His huge carcase ridiculously
dwarfed the hospital bed. He was black and
hairy, making the sheets a painful white by con-
trast. His mauled chest was swathed in ban-
dages, through which the blood, brown and caked,
unhandsomely showed. Face, head, body, and
limbs were covered with coarse, black hair; his
complexion, pallid through blood - loss, was a
lively gamboge; great knotted cords stood
out from his neck ; his arms and legs—he
had spumed his coverings—were enormously
muscular. His eyes were wonderful and hor-
rible, appearing brown, green, black, or red by
turns. But, whichever tint his eyes took —
whether the pupils, as they one moment appeared,
were big and round as shillings, or mere narrow
slits, as they looked the next—they burned with
a lustre so intolerable that you could feel their
power with your back turned to their owner. _ The
indescribable odor which emanates from carnivora
seemed to surround him and was not mitigated by
the evil perfume of a cigar which he smoked
despite the expostulations of a nurse.
As the matron entered the ward he, moved
partly by pain, chiefly by innate savagery, kicked
out the foot of his bed, the iron sheet crumpling
as if smitten by a blacksmith’s sledge.
“Who the devil may you be?” he affably en-
quired of the matron as she walked without hurry
to his bedside.
“lam the matron, and I allow neither smoking
nor bad language here !” she replied \yith her
usual deliberate tranquillity. She advanced,
quietly and deftly removed the cigar from between
the fellow’s great yellow fangs, and, walking to
the window, threw the weed out.
For one moment he was staggered by the
audacity of the thing. The next he roared a
string of curses as vile as ever passed human lips,
and made as if to spring at the matron. The
other nurses, fearing actual violence, stampeded.
The matron placed herself at the foot of the bed
and gazed steadfastly into the brute’s eyes.
When he perceived the attitude of the matron
he sank back on his pillow, with a hyaena-like
laugh, and fixed his baleful glare upon her, as if
with the power and will to blight and scorch her
dead where she stood.
“ I’ve been used to your sort—she-tigers,” he
snarled.
At this moment the Chief, accompanied by
Hooper and the dispenser, entered and walked
down the ward. The Chief, about to speak,
checked himself and watched.
For the modest, Madonna-like, Ann Driukwaier
and Signor Roberto ( Anglice , Roberts), the brutal
beast-tamer, were engaged in a singular duel-a
duel of eyes, will, mesmeric power, call it what we
may to hide our ignorance.
And so they continued to gaze at one another —
she, the gentle and pure-looking woman ; he, the
man-beast. The scene was redeemed from mere
theatrical disp’ay by its intensity.
Minutes passed. None spoke or moved. Then,
swiftly, without warning, a change came over the
face of the man. A shade flitted across it. The
malignant gleam in his eyes slowly faded. Then
his form became limp; he tried unavailingly to
rise; fell back ; glanced, with a new spasm of
ferocity, at the matron ; shut his eyes, partially
opened them, and, as face and form settled into
rigidity, fell back, apparently sound asleep.
“He’ll be quiet now for a time, sir,” she said,
turning to the Chief.
The medical men took advantage of the lull to
examine and dress the beast-tamer’s wounds.
When lie awoke, though still a beast, he was a
comparatively quiet one. Ho blasphemed in a
minor key. The matron visited him at night. He
pretended not to recognise her, but he did not
abuse her, which, possibly, was the nearest
approach to civility of which he was capable.
# * *
Charlie’s cough became worse. Charlie’s
blue- eyes grew dim and his energy flagged. Ihe
Chief said Charlie must have change of air at
once. Was there anywhere he could go for some
weeks, perhaps months? Charlie said he knew
some people, squatters, way far-back. He coma
stay with them for an period. Ann, with
. ler accustomed f nction-
less energy, prepared
for the departure of
her favorite. The day
came when Charlie’s
portmanteaux were
carried down to a cab,
and Charlie, looking
fit to be carried down
himself, crossed to the
matron’s parlor to bid
her good - bye. She
uttered her adieu with
tranquil cordiality, ask-
ed him to write often
and say how he was ;
and, in the next breath,
enquired whether he
was sure he had his
medicine and the flask
with the whisky in it.
Then the youngster
shook hands warmly
with the matron. But,
suddenly thinking of
her unvarying solici-
tude for him, her
patience and all her
tender care, he natu-
rally as an affectionate
girl might, drew _ her
face down and kissed
her on the cheek.
A sudden flush leaped
to the woman’s face,
and poured in crimson
tide around her neck.
For one second she
looked as some angel
kissed by one of the
sons of men might
look. Then she burst
into tears, happy tears,
captured his hand,
fondled it, placed it to
her mouth and bosom,
{ messed her red, ripe
ips to his, and—push-
ing him gently from
the room, locked and
double-locked the door.
A minute later, in
answer to the enquiry
of a nurse outside, she
said, in her ordinary,
unruffled tones: —
“Yes; wait a moment. I’ll apply those poul-
tices myself.”
* # *
The months passed. The torridness of
summer had burnt down to the heats of autumn,
and they had declined to the premonitory chills of
winter. Charlie had written often. He was
much better. In the dry interior, far from the
city’s sweats and stenches and everlasting fuss and
fury, living much in the open air, he had
taken a new and stronger grip on life. He would
return soon, but not to stay. In the hospital
things were as usual. People were carried in
bruised, battered, broken, burnt with fever or
fire. Some were carried out dead; some 'Walked
out —others remained. Among these latter was
Signor Roberto, now almost well. Coeval with
his physical there had been a subtle, but per-
ceptible, mental improvement in the animal. At
first he had broken out again and again, though
with diminished fury on each occasion. They
always sent for the matron, whose mere presence
calmed him. As time went on he displayed a pre-
dilection for that presence. In the fever bom of
his wounds he asked for her, and when she came
she seemed to have the power to charm away his
pain. He was still a brute, perhaps, nevertheless
a humanised one.
* * *
Charlie had not written for some weeks,
when the hospital staff received a surprise from
him in the shape of wedding-cards. He had mar-
ried the squatter’s daughter in the far-back ; also,
he had inherited some money. He would wield
lance and saw no more.
Shortly after the delivery of the mail, young
Wakeham, Charlie’s locum tenens, wanting the
matron on business, went to her sitting-room.
Knocking, and thinking he was bidden enter,
he went in. A long ray of cold sunlight stretched
across the room. Touched by its light lay
Ann Drinkwater in a heap on the floor. In
one hand she clasped Charlie’s wedding-cards.
Her splendid hair, escaped from control, streamed
around her. Her face was pale and cold as mar-
ble. She had fainted. Wakeham would have
called assistance, but he was a discreet lad, and
observed that whichmade him pause. The room was
literally strewn with wedding finery—female gar-
ments which looked as if they had been subjected
to a cyclone. There was a marvellous white-silk
dress, torn, trampled upon and dirty ; a veil rent
across ; gloves wrenched in twain; a wreath pulled
to pieces.
# # *
The hospital authorities had another sur-
prise. Matron Drinkwater respectfully tendered
her resignation. She and the beast-tamer, strange
to say, left the institution the same day. One
month afterwards they were married. “God help
her !” groaned the chief ; “ the best nurse I ever
knew. That savage will trample her life out
before three months are over !”
* # •
Two years afterwards Houpla’s circus and
menagerie were again showing in that Australian
metropolis. The great HoupLi was lunching with
a newspaper man.
“I was up at A recently,” said the latter.
“Who d’ye think I met?”
“ The Lord knows; perhaps an honest news-
paper man. Nothing is impossible.”
“No ; I met that beastly lion-tamer of yours—
Roberto, the fellow that killed old Feefum.”
“In gaol—l presume?”
“Not much. His hair was cut decently, which
yours is not, Houpla, and he was well and quietly
dressed, and carried no stage diamonds. Also he
was walking with a lady and wheeling a pram., in
which were two cubs, apparently twins. I dined
with him and his wife. He was the meekest mail
and the lady the most calmly autocratic woman 1
have met for long years. She was a hospital
matron —maiden name, Ann Drinkwater.”
“Great Caesar! what a lion-tamer she would
have made !” said lloupla, excitedly.
Maorilaud.
PHIZ.
RULE NISI
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
P*fTTU‘T 6WN C^U££NSIANP-iH£
IN A iOf y WHiyt S*L*EN OBJtsy, ,
T«P WANf ON WIHB PRO/A her PsVcmE
KNoy HAO FLUTTERED ON( DUSKY TR* s *
ME Was her lover- herVaiohe- Ano his ip°N
was a /vygrE CARt^V
Mem £YtS ANO A C«W*tAIWHt in frttlß,
Db£a/v\y 6A-Z.E, J „ _ , ,
BMC.HTER By far T* an THtnocreH STAM WHICH <.l£ArAs THRogfirt the
|HA T DRAPES THI RfcPO'N.Nd ORlfelHf SKY IN THt DAWNIN4 OF SO/WRER
Pays
The RED Mjn dropp'd NEAfri t“ £ FtATKtRY PiNtS THAf BROiDERED f*t
SKY-LINES KIPA
Yet sat they there - al®ne with l°ve - Thj- the taEllow E-KiMy, wr«d
Heaved her so! and she whispered low. that she,Too "cared For
Hwa
6><jT HE AsßtO HER Not T° «'* *£*T , D*OR uTT t^ fcp Pti,lß>£ T° K ‘ N ° V^
WHETHER she woulp weld HER llF£ WlfH HIS fOIR yrtE f <JT°A.E S WEAL
ano woE .
fiECAUbE. . . .. SHE HRD WEDDED HIS TRUSTiesf 6,X ATON-fttj
A6o
The Breaker


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD .
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Paulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.'
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
THE RIDING
OF
THE REBEL
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He was the Red Creek overseer, a trusted man and
true.
Whose shoulder never left the wheel when there
was work to do ;
Through all the day he rode the run, and when the
lights grew dim
The sweetest wife who ever loved would wait and
watch for him.
She brought him dower of golden hair and eyes of
laughing blue,
Stout heart and cunning bridle-hand to guide the
mulga through,
And when the mob was mustered from the box
flats far and wide
She loved to mount the wildest colts that no one
else would ride.
And once it chanced a wayward steed, half-
mouthed and roughly broke,
Denied the touch of gentle hand and gentler
words she spoke,
And, plunging forward like the ship that feels the
autumn gales.
He reared and lost his footing and fell backwards
on the rails.
Her husband bent above her with cold terror at
his heart
The form was still he loved so well, the wan lips
would not part,
And all the day in trance she lay, but when the
stars smiled down
He heard his name low-whispered and he claimed
her still his own.
And afterwards he spoke his fear: “ Heart’s Love,
if you should die I
Unless you take your orders from some other man
than I,
You shall never finger bridle, never mount on
horse’s back,
Till the outlaw on Glenidol is a broken lady’s
hack!” J
There s an outlaw on Glenidol that is known
through all the West,
And three men’s lives are on his head, bold riders
of the best;
The station lads had heard the sneer that travelled
far and wide
And flung the answering challenge: “Come and
teach us how to ride ;
Roll up, ye merry riders all, whose honor is to
guard,
We’ve mustered up the ranges and The Rebel’s in
the yard—
His open mouth and stamping foot and keen eye
flashing fire
Repeat the temper of his dam, the mettle of his
sire.
Roll up, ye merry riders all, from hut and camp
and town:
You’ll have to stick like plaster when the stock-
yard rails go down,
But the boss will come down handsome, as the
boss is wont to come.
To the first who brings The Rebel under spurs and
greenhide home.
And the stockmen heard the challenge from the
Cooper to the Bree,
And rode from hut and cattle-camp by one and
two and three
To keep their horseman’s honor clean and play a
hero’s part
lo best the bold Glenidol boys and break The
Rebel’s heart.
And Ruddy Neil, the breaker, from the Riverine
came through
With all the latest breaking-gear and all the wiles
he knew,
But ere the saddle was secured, before a girth was
drawn,
The Rebel’s forefoot split his skull—they buried
him at dawn.
Marora Mick, the half-caste, from the Flinders
River came
To give the South-the-Border boys a lesson at the
game,
But he got a roguish welcome when he entered
New South Wales
For The Rebel used his blood and brains to paint
the stockyard rails.
And Mulga Jack came over from the Yuinburra
side—
The horse was never foaled, they say, that Mulga
could not ride ;
With a mouth as hard as a miser’s heart, a will
like the Devil’s own,
The Rebel made for the Stony Range with the
man who wouldn’t be thrown.
The Rebel made for the Stony Range, where the
plain and the scrub land meet,
And the dead boughs cracked at his shoulder-
blade, the stones leapt under his feet,
And the ragged stems of the gidyeas cut and tore
as they blundered past,
And Jack lay cold in the sunset gold—he had met
with his match at last.
And once again the challenge rang, the bitterer
for scorn,
And spoke the bold Glenidol boys, their jackets
mulga-tom:
“ A week have we been hunting him and riding
fast and hard
To give you all another chance—The Rebel’s in
the yard.”
And the stockmen heard the challenge from the
Cooper to the Bree.
But “I’m getting old,” “I’m getting stiff,” or
“ I’ve a wife, you see,”
Came whispered to the border, and the horse they
could not tame
Had saved Glenidol from disgrace and cleansed a
sullied name.
But ere the reddening sun went down and night
on the ranges broke
A stranger youth to the slip-rails rode, and
fastened his horse and spoke
Straight to the point, “ This colt of which the
whole of the West has heard,
I’ll ride him;” —and active and lithe of limb he
looked as good as his word.
He bridled The Rebel in failing light, and saddled
the colt and drew
Girth and crupper and breastplate tight and mea-
sured his length anew.
He mounted The Rebel and gave the word, and
a j clat ? rm 3 rads down > .
6 Jp U j aw 4ea pt the open gate and into
r l6 j W f brown ;
But he settled himself to the soothing voice and
a i tbe fondling hand,
As it followed the curve of his arching neck from
Tr . wither to forehead-band;
His flanks were wet with the fresh-sprung sweat,
a A 3 sl ?°ulders lathered with foam,
And he bent to the bridle and played with the
a jT® as he came at a canter home.
And the boys were dumb with wonder, and sat,
wt ai e x ® tted Greek overseer
Was first to drop from the stockyard fence and
give him a hearty cheer ;
He raised hi S hat in answer and—the golden hair
a j u ' ree ’ . . ,
And the blue eyes lit with laughter as she shouted
~ merrily .
You can reach me down my bridle, give my
girths and saddle back,
fior the outiaw of Glenidol is a broken lady’s
GLENROWAN.
Her Portrait.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Samuel was working on a survey-party on the
East Coast of Maoriland. That day the boss had
sent him down to the settlement for some needed
stores and the weekly mail.
Towards evening he was returning to camp.
He had a heavy load, but he had also that in the
pocket of his jumper which made his seventy
pounds of miscellaneous cargo seem like a bundle
of feathers. “She” had written to him, enclosing
her photo., and often had Samuel paused on his
way to refresh himself with a glance at it.
Straight up the steep ridge went the cut-line he
was following, which led to the big station on the
highest peak of the range. Here the bush was
filled with the faint blue smoke which came from
a huge rata that had been burning for the last
three days.
Just where the line widened out into the station
avenue Samuel paused again, up-ended his swag
against a convenient stump, and fumbled in his
pocket for the precious picture.
It was not a very good one. Neither, perhaps,
was the original ; but, in Samuel’s bush-bred eyes,
no cigarette-placard could have been more divinely
beautiful.
Along, creaking, groaning crash, a volcano of
upward-pouring sparks, and a roaring, thundering
avalanche of timber came fair down the line. The
ground trembled with the shock, and the standing
bush bent with the blast it made. The topmost
crown of glossy leaves and scarlet blossoms reached
within a bare ten feet from Samuel and his swag.
Samuel was blown like a thistle-seed into a con-
venient clump of supplejacks, the photo., not
much crumpled, still safe in his hand.
“ If it hadn’t been for her picture that blessed
tree would have caught me,” said he.
Subsequently, for reasons connected with the
picture, he regretted that the tree had not caught
him. But that is not part of this chapter.
WAIHOA.
Few people can form anything approaching
a just idea of the wealth of picturesque scenery to
be found in New South Wales, which in older
countries would be a ceaseless source of attraction
to myriads of tourists from all parts of the civilised
world ; or the extent to which it has been made
accessible by the State-owned railways to the
great mass of holiday-makers. In this respect the
residents of Sydney are, perhaps, more favored
than are the inhabitants of any other city. The
railways have brought to their very threshold, as
it were, the manifold charms of lake and river.
mountain and sea-side, valley and forest, enabling
them to exchange the reeking, disease-germ-laden
a ir of crowded streets and lanes for the pure and
exhilarating atmosphere of the country. North,
west, and south, the hands of Nature have
provided scenic marvels in abundance for the
enjoyment of Man. The noble Hawkesbury
and the broad Nepean, with the ever-chang-
ing landscape on either side ; Brisbane Water,
Lake Macquarie, Lake George, and other in-
land miniature seas, abounding with fish and
game ; the fairy-like Illawarra district, rich in
ferns and palms; the ever-popular National Park,
epitomising all that is lovely in Australian
Nature; the Fitzroy, Mery la, Wentworth,
Katoomba, and other Falls ; Govett’s Leap ; the
Kanimbla, Grose, and other valleys; Jenolan,
Wombeyan, and other caves, form only a portion
of the many wonders of the great holiday land
placed at the national disposal. Further afield
are the Western> Northern , and Southern table-
lands, immense regions, considerable portions of
which remain as virgin soil to the foot of the
tourist, as does also the greater part of the country
beyond Nowra and Jervis Bay. If the latter-day
Australian fails in imbibing a taste for art or
poetry it certainly will not be from' lack of the
elements of inspiration. Directly he has left the
city an d its octopus suburbs behind him he
becomes surrounded by the beautiful in Nature,
an 4 instinctively realises the force of Ebenezer
Elliott’s remark that “ the further from the haunts
of men, the nearer is he to Nature’s God.”
ATHLETICS AND SMOKING.
Ought athletes to smoke ? Yes and no. Opinions
are considerably at variance on the subject, but
the verdict of most modern scientists would lead
to the conclusion that youth, while training, should
abstain from smoking pipes, cigarettes, or strong
cigars. A mild cigar, on the other hand, may
safely be indulged in, and the latest novelty,
Frossard’s Oavour cigars, can be recommended to
one and all—they are mild, aromatic, and in every
respect suitable for the successful sportsman, as
well as for the one who is out of it. A packet of
eight only costs one shilling. Athletes, go for
them and be victorious !
Watt’s Pectoral Oxymel of Carragheen, or
Irish Moss, for coughs, colds, influenza, asthma,
etc. The unrivalled success of this medicine, now
established 40 years, has induced imitations to be
introduced and advertised. The public are, there-
fore, cautioned not to purchase any but with the
above label. In all affections of the chest this
medicine is found to give relief when others have
failed, and its great success is a guarantee of its
efficacy. Wholesale agents, Elliott Bros., Ltd.
For 15d in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System,”, by “Price
Warung.”


The Great, Safe, In valuable Family Medicine!
for the curb of
Piles, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Chilblains, Neuralgia, Inflamed Eyes, Sore Throat, Toothache, Old Sores, wounds,
Bruises, Scalds, Burns, Female Complaints, Inflammations, Hemorrhages, and all Pain.
Italian Bible and Sunday-School Mission,
Rome, Italy.
My Dear Sir.
I wish I knew just what to say about
POND’S EXTRACT. I knew it was good,
but I did not know how exceeding good it was.
The Italians call it “AQUA DI DIO”
(Water of God). We use it for Sore Eyes,
Toothache, Earache, all sorts of aches ; moisten
a cloth and rub the patient when burning with
fever, in fact, for everything. It is indis-
pensable in the Medical Mission department
of our work in Italy.
Rev. W. 0. YAN METER,
Superintendent.
ORDER THROUGH
All Chemists and Storekeepers-
The People’s Remedy in America
for over Fifty Years.
HOW IT CUBES FILES.
“For FORTY YEARS I have been an indescribable sufferer with the Piles.
Every known remedy I have tried, all of which had a tendency to alleviate, not
cure. First attacked with Blind Piles, which annoyed me for years ; Bleeding Piles
followed, which frequently confined me to the bed, leaving me unfit for business.
Within a few days
they have attacked me
in full force, and that
most excruciating of
the hemorrhoid family,
the Itching Piles, su-
perseded both. Having
become possessed of
some Pond’s Extract,
I applied it freely.
POND’S
EXTRACT
CURES
and undiluted. Had
Heaven and earth
come together I would
not have been more
surprised. I never
dreamed of a cure.
Three times only have
I resorted to Pond’s
Extract, and the
Itching Piles vanished
as if by magic. lam fully convinced that it is the only known remedy in the wide
world for the Itching Piles. My statement is unsolicited.
THOMAS S. MURPHY, Olmstedville, N.Y.
The Leading Athletes Testify to the Merits
of Pond’s Extract.
MIKE DONOVAN, Ex-Champion Middle-
Weight and Trainer for the New York
Athletic Club, says :
“I use it constantly.”
L. B. MYERS, Champion Sprint Runner of
the World, says
“Pond’s Extract is the best Liniment I
have ever used for rubbing purposes, sore-
ness, strains, cuts, &c.”
R. B, SHAW, Captain Olympic Athletic Club,
says _
“ It makes the muscles quick and active.
JAMES MUTRIE, Manager New York Base
Ball Club, says :
“ It removes stiffness and soreness of the
muscles in a very short time. NO ATH-
LETE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.”
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australasia:
M. MOSS & CO., Wynyard Lane, Sydney.
In thirsty weather, the System requires
stimulating as well as
refreshing.
fd
Try Wolfe’s Schnapps and
Soda, It quenches the thirst like nothing
else will —it is a splendid stimulating corrective
in hot weather. Order a case this Christmas from your mine
merchant, but get WOLFE’S Schnapps and not a worthless imitation.
LAUNDRESSES
LIKE
NOTHING
BETTER
THAN
RED CROSS
SOAP.
IT WASHES
WITHQUT’LABOUR,
CLEANSES
WITHOUT RUBBING.
JUST TRY IT
NEXT
WASHING DAY.
ALL GROCERS.
PULVERIVIACHER’S
WORLD-FAMED
ZBjSLCETIDS,
J Belts dfid Pocket Batteries,
As prescribed and recommended by all the most eminent
physicians throughout the world. The most simple and
effectual cure known for
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA. LUMBAGO. PARA-
LYSIS, DEAFNESS, HEAD and lOOTH ACHE,
NERVOUSNESS, and other Nervous, Muscular and
(Functional Maladies.
|3r° Those who suffer should send for Pamphlet,
“ GALVANISM,”
Nature’s Chief Restorer of Impaired Vital Energy, which
will give full particulars of the treatment.
We are the SOI E AGENTS for PULYEBMACHER’S
GALVANIC APPLIANCES, and can most highly
recommend them, and will, with pleasure, give any in-
formation and forward (post free) the pamphlet men-
tioned. _ _
Frost &
MANUFACTURING ELECTRICIANS, Bto
474 George Street, Sydney.
TWO CHRISTMASES!
At Home.
Ice, Snow, Keen Winds, a few Fogs. Red Cheeks,
Blue Noses, Frosty Fingers and Furs.
The Sunny South.
The New World bathed in sunny gleams, and its Fair Daughters
clad in
Diaphanous Draperies,
Matchless Millinery.
Neat Drill Costumes,
Dainty Boots, Sweet Sunshades,
And a host of other Light and Airy Fancies for
HOLIDAY TIME!
A DUB PROPORTION OP WHICH ARE PURCHASED
AFTER
—AT—
MARK FOY’S,
(Hyde Park Corner), SYDNEY.
XMAS !
XMAS !
“Jehosophat."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am a bucking rider, as the boys on Bando know,
I care for nothing here on earth and little down
below,
And Watson, of Willora, on the old Port Darwin
track,
He offered me a camel if I’d use it for a hack.
“ Jehosophat ” he called it, and it had a meaning
smile,
Extending round its features —well, it may be,
half-a-mile;
And it knelt to let me mount in a way so sweet to
see,
That I rammed the spurs in boldly and requested
it to “gee.”
It geed; at least, like thunder all its hind part
rose up straight,
And I went whizzing to its neck, most painful to
relate.
It geed; its front part reared aloft —but here mere
words must fail,
For I was clinging to its hump, I think astride its
tail.
And it started a performance which it seemed to
think a trot,
But I wish to state impressively I certainly did
not.
’Twas a painful combination of some thirty Irish
jigs,
And its little tail went whirling round precisely
like a pig’s.
Whilst we gallivanted onward like an epileptic fit,
I was searching all that camel for a kindly place
to sit.
There were two great slopes around me to its neck
and to its tail,
And a big ridge in the middle rather sharper than
a nail.
I had backed the wildest outlaws from Willora to
Taring,
But the riding of an earthquake is a very different
thing ;
I gripped the hump with both my arms and yelled
“Jehosophat!”
And the camel gave a grunt of joy and put on
steam at that.
And when we settled to our stride, I had no
strength to swear,
And when I found the breath to curse the camel
wasn’t there.
But the boys, they told me firmly, when they came
to pick me up :
“Bill Grady, you have got the nag to win the
Melbourne Cup !”
Jehosophat, he lives and smiles, but I m a shat-
tered wreck.
I broke three ribs against his hump, one shin upon
his neck;
My bones have all been somehow set, and Watson’s
eyes are black,
But I’ll never, never use again a camel for a hack !
Brisbane.
G. ESSEX EVANS.


&
the Greatest Opticians in Australia,
474 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKING MODEL ENGINES.
All guaranteed to go. You had better send early or they will all be gone.
Our celebrated
Half-Quine a
Locomotive .
Our celebrated; Half-guinea
Locomotive, works at 60 miles
an hour; guaranteed to climb
the Zig - Zag. With safety-
valve and whistle, 10/6. Post
free, Bd. extra.
With copper boilers, 15/-.
Very neat, pretty design
Copper Boiler, enamelled
brick work base, 10/6. Post
free, Bd. extra.
A Perfect Model Slide Valve Engine,
very best make, £3 3s, Post free,
Here’s a beauty ! Brass
Boiler with taps, safety-
valve, cocks, &c., 18/6.
Post free, lid. extra.
Good yet Cheap
Vertical Engines,
work well. 2J" Fly-
wheel, 3/6; 3" do.,
5/-. Post, 8d extra.
Our “Dover.”
mmmSm
A real dandy. Large size, perfect working
Locomotive, copper boiler, brass fittings, safety-
valve, whistle, dome, &c., £l. Splendid value.
Post free, lid. extra.
MAGIC LANTERNS EOR THE HOME OR PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS.
Magic Lanterns for the Drawing-
room.
EXTRA SLIDES
Best make, English pattern,
in elegant cabinet, with 48
FOR ANY LANTERN.
Side-splitting and original designs.
lin. ; lfin. 2in.
9d. V- 1/6 2/- 2/6
2Jin. 2Jin. Sin. 4in.
3/- 3/6 4/6 5/6
Our Fet Fancy, “The Climax,”
m
Pr-
A speciality for home use and for presents. These instruments are made entirely
of brass, beautifully finished and polished. The slides, which are nicely-colored and
well-finished, revolve instead of having to be pushed along as usual. With each
lantern the slides include : —Robinson Crusoe (8 pictures), Little Red Riding Hood
(8 pictures), Puss-in-Boots (8 pictures), Celebrated Men (8 pictures), The Nations of
the Earth (8 pictures), Geology (8 pictures), as well as an assortment of comic subjects,
mechanical slides, chromatrope, etc. Full readings for the slides are supplied as well
as printed instructions, tickets, show bills, etc. The whole is enclosed in a neat,
handy cabinet, with lock and key. Two sizes, 35/- and 42/-
Our “Exhibition” Outfit.
For Public Entertainments. The cheapest "outfit ever
offered. Magnificent Mahogany-bodied Lantern, with solid
brass fittings and perfect lenses, high illuminating power.
Conlplete, with a choice assortment of 50 magnificent universal
size slides, £5 ss, (In travelling cabinet.)
FIRST-CLASS AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHIC
OUTFITS
Our No. 1 Photograyhic
Outfit,
A good Instrument, not a toy, made
of best Polished Mahogany, with strong
bellows, good lens, stand and dark slide.
\ plate, 30/-, h 57/6, 1/1 plate, 84/ —
Size of Picture :
4J x 6J x 4J 6i x 8J
Or complete with every requisite.
J-plate, 45/-, J-plate, 80/-, 1/1-plate, 120/-
A Special Inducement for Xmas .
BaBL
s==l
This is an Outfit of the very best description ; specially arranged at a remarkably
low figure for Xmas presents. It includes the most perfect camera made, 3 best
double dark slides, rapid rectilinear lens, stand, pneumatic shutter and solid leather
case, dark cloth, and book of instructions. The whole outfit, -plate size, £lO 10s.
Our “Student’s” Set.
A grand Outfit at a low price, and highly recommended.
A first-class Camera ; lens suitable for portraiture, landscape
or architecture; good stand, best dark slide, and pneumatic
shutter.
| plate, £2 17s fid, J plate, £5 10s, 1/1 plate, £7 15s.
or with every requisite for taking and printing photographs,
J plate, £3 17s fid, \ plate, £7 Os Od, 1/1 plate, £9 10s,
OTHER USEFUL AND SENSIBLE PRESENTS
ENCOURAGE YOUR BOYS TO BECOME
LOVERS OF NATURE.
.1
ms
Elementary Compound Microscopes, in cabinet,
magnifying 60 diam., 10/6; with triple powers, 15/-
The student’s, as illustrated, £2 10s and £5 ss.
Our reputation as Opti-
cians is unapproachable
and irreproachable. Satis-
faction guaranteed.
Eyeglasses of the latest
and most comfortable
pattern :
SPECTACLES AND EYEGLASSES
Brazilian Pebbles—
In Nickel frames, 10/6
„ Silver ~ 16/6
„ Gold „ 30/-
Spectacles same prices. If
you don’t know the sight,
send along an old pair or
an odd glass.
DAINTY GEMS FOR THE FIANCEE,
Some of the choicest designs ever shown.
In Morocco at 15/- and 20/- Neat cases.
In Mother-of-Pearl and Gilt 30/-, 40/- and 45/-
THE “ ADMIRALTY ” FIELD & MARINE
GLASSES.
As used in the navy. For night or day work.
In three sizes—30/-, 42/-, 50/- In solid calf oases.
Graphoscopes,
mm
*s/m
You know what these are ? Perfect models of
the cabinetmaker’s art. For enlarging and giving
stereoscopic effect to any size photographs.
In choice walnut cases 15/- to 40/-
In handsomely carved cases ... 20/- to 50/-
Easel pattern, as illustrated, from 16/-


THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP COMPANY
(Limited).
EXPRESS PASSENGER STEAMERS.
REGULAR SAILINGS.
FOR Melbourne, '
„ Adelaide,
„ Port Pirie,
„ Albany,
~ Fremantle,
„ Gerald ton, and
„ All West Australian Ports^
Every Saturday at Noon.
Queensland Ports.
FOR Brisbane,
„ Mackay,
„ Townsville,
~ Cairns,
~ And Intermediate Ports
Every Saturday at Noon.
1 ©west Kn tes of Freights ami Passage Money
to ail Ports.
Unrivalled Accommodation for Passengers.
For all Particulars, apply to G. S. YUILL & CO.,
Agents, 17 Bridge Street, SSTDNEY.
CITY OF BRISBANE
(.£150,000) CORPORATION
4 PER CENT. DEBENTURES.
The Municipal Council of the City of Brisbane is
now prepared to receive applications for the whole
or any portion of the Balance (£150,000) of the
Debentures authorised by Act 57 Victoria, No. 13.
Interest at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum,
dating from issue of Debentures, will be payable
in Brisbane half-yearly.
Principal sum payable in Brisbane Ist January,
1919. Arrangements have been made whereby
the Union Bank of Australia will receive and
transmit moneys on account of above from any of
their offices in Australia at special rates.
Application forms obtainable from the Town
ROBERT FRASER, Mayor.
Town Hall, Brisbane, Oct. 16, 1894.
Mil
‘MI,I.
(lr%
IS
in
illti
%
inu
mm
iii
m\
L'mmiiiiuii
:ni"«
v?
lL»n
tZffiaasa®
Mmt!
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney
Society U.S.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS.
It has more Assurance in Force,
Does a Larger Business,
Holds a Larger Surplus, than
any other Life Office
in the World.
20-YEAR TONTINE.
REVERSIONARY RESULTS OF A
£lOOO POLICY
If Whole
Life.
f
If 20 Ltd.
Premiums.
ill]
If 20-year
Endowment.
mm
raaSBSEEBEEEB
55
These are the ONLY
AGHER’S
Woria-famedL
B
GENUINE Electric Belts made
For the Speedy, Effectual
Cure of
NEURALGIA,
INDIGESTION,
RHEUMATISM,
PARALYSIS,
ASTHMA,
DEAFNESS,
LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA,
NERVOUSNESS,
ELECTRICITY
(TRADE MARK.)
IS LIFE!
They have been in use for the last fifty years, and are prescribed and recommended by the
Leading Physicians throughout the world.
They have received Testimonials from Three of the Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen, the
Academic de Medecine of Paris, and the following members of the Royal College of Physicians, London :
O. HANDFIELD JONES, Physician, S*. Mary’s Hospital,
i. GOLDING BIRD, Physician, Guy’s Hospital,
i. JONATHAN PEREIRA, Physician, London Hospital
R. T. W. NUNN, Surgeon, Middlesex Hospital.
R. R. M. LAWRENCE, Physician, Great Northern Hospital,
R. J. RUSSELL REYNOLDS, Physician, University Hospital.
R. R. QUAIN, Physician, Brompton Hospital.
R. H. A. ALLBUTT, Physician, Leeds Hospital.
j yR. JAMES WILSON, Physician, Worcester Infirmary.
OIR OHAS. LOCOOK, Baet., Physician to Her Majesty.
WILLIAM FERGUSSON, Baet., Physician to Her Majesty.
OHR HENRY HOLLAND, Baet., Physician to Her Majesty.
E. H. SIEYEKING, M.D., Physician to H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales.
D R J. OPPOLZER, Physician to H.I.M. the Emperor of Austria.
ONIMUS, of the Academy of Medicine of Paris.
A "vR VALENTINE MOTT, of the Academy of Medicine of New York.
DEBILITY,
EPILEPSY,
LIVER COMPLAINTS,
and those
INFIRM! T I E S
resulting from
IMPAIRED
VITAL
ENERGY,
Consequent on Various
Excesses.
■
9
1
m
9
I
rjIHE Lancet, Medical Times, and Medical Journal, have also spoken in the highest terms of PULYERMACHER’S BELTS.
SEIsTD FOB PAMPHLET,
p A y T r A XTTQIVr • Nature’s Chief Restorer of Im-
UAL V xiLli lOi'l • paired Vital Energy.” r<»t Free from
The Sole A.u.atra,lian. Agents :
FROST & SHIPHAM, 474 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Ferryman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mitchell stood six feet in his stockings. By the
water’s edge, the boat; behind the shingle bed,
the green turf; on the turf, the cottage. Part
dairyman, part stock-raiser, and a big lump digger
—that is the ferryman.
“Familiarity breeds contempt.” You see the
mariner of 30 years lash the rope of the sail in its
cleat. You see the engine-driver of ten years
fall in a moment under the ponderous wheels of
the locomotive. You watch the successful pilot of
a hundred races thrown, dragged by the stirrup,
and brained. Why should the ferryman be an
exception? .
Was it a river? Yes, when it rained; in fine
weather it was only a creek. But then it often
rained. At such times the water changed its
colour and became a sour white. There is a
caution in that which is fickle.
Like a million other streams, its destiny was the
Pacific. Under cover of the clouds the sea found
time to whisper as they embraced :
“ I am thy mother—some children played upon
the shore to-day —I coveted them, but the tide was
spent. Bring me a corpse of man to make, me
sport.”
And the river promised.
That night the sky was filled with silver cords.
It was the rain. The river gurgled and rose.
Mitchell took the lantern at 10 o’clock, and went
to see to his boat. He found water all round it.
The river eyed him cunningly. The boat never
warned him. Below the boat was a recent eddy—
breathless, triumphant. It had but that minute
torn a huge hole in the shingle.
Putting the lantern on the bank, Mitchell
stepped into the water to drag the boat further up
the beach. He clutched the gunwale, and felt
that his feet were drawn right under. At the
same instant the boat began to pay out broadside
down the stream.
Mitchell opened his mouth to cry for help.
That attempted appeal was his death-warrant,
swimmer though he was. In an instant his head
went under.
The water poured down his throat. He felt his
mother, in fancy, gently stroking his cheek. He
loosed his grasp of the boat. When he rose, the
power to struggle was for ever gone.
Mitchell’s wife took the tin lamp, and, with her
daughter, went in quest of her husband. The
other children crowded in the doorway. The
lantern still burned, but it rested on the stones.
Where were the hands that had brought it there ?
“ Coo-ee !”
No answer.
“ Coo-ee-ee !”
Silence is a mocker.
The river was too high to cross to the town-
ship, but one of the boys rode five miles down
the bank to a neighbour’s place for counsel and
assistance. There is sublimity in the compulsory
craving for sympathy at such a time.
* * *
Ex-lieutenant Hamborough, once a soldier, now
a beachcomber, rubbed his huge hands with satis-
faction. The sea had been rough. There was a
fine flat of sand with a bank of six feet at high-
tide mark. All night had the sea sluiced those
tons of stuff.
He reckoned 20 ounces at least.
He took his box with its plush and blanket
ripples and sallied out. Gold sticks in hair. May-
be that is how woman first learned to feed vanity
from effect.
Descending the bank, he began to shovel the
useful sand into heaps.
He stopped, for the shovel struck a portion of
flesh. He bored more. It was a man’s back. He
uncovered the lot, and identified it easily. It was
his old friend, Mitchell, who had fought by his
side at Cawnpore. And the knots of 20 years
worn into the rope with which he had carried his
box were easier to unravel than the wherefore of
this strange meeting arranged by fate.
Do not play at hazards with danger; keep well
on the upper side.
Maoriland.
F. DE BAKKER.
Voices.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There are three mighty Voices that alway
Cry out to God to speed His Judgment Day.
The Voice of Devils, weary long ago
Of dragging souls to Everlasting Woe.
The Voice of Saints who hear, while anthems
swell
In Heav’n, the wail of sinners doomed to Hell.
The Voice of Man —sick of his desperate
Long throwing ’gainst the leaded dice of Fate.
All things are weary of the Strife and Stress —
In God alone is there no weariness?
V.J.D.
A sulphur-spring has been found near
Frankston (Vic.). When they strike a treacle-
mine close by, Frankston will become a great
juvenile sanatorium.
The Maoris at the Barrier (M.L.) carefully
stripped of any rings or other valuables every
corpse which came into their hands from the
Wairarapa wreck—which is just what most civi-
lised white men would have done. Where the
difference comes in is that, so far as can be dis-
covered, every separate article, down to the very
smallest, was religiously handed over to the police.
Thus the cable :
Nov. 24th.—The Chinese
fought gallantly, and re.
fused to accept quarter.
The Japanese lost heavily.
The Chinese army occupy-
ing Port Arthur, estimated
to number between 15,000
and 20,000 men, was vir-
tually annihilated.
Nov. 26th. —In the attack
on Port Arthur, the Ja-
panese lost 250, and the
Chinese between 1000 and
2000 men. . . Many of the
guns were loaded, the
Chinese having fled with-
out firing them. Th"
Chinese officers led the
flight.
Which yarn is true? Probably neither.
A Buxletin correspondent :
In the newspaper accounts of the Wairarapa disaster all
the large slices of advt. are plastered on to the saloon
passengers. If a pressman wants “ copy ”on any event of
this nature he always goes to the first class traveller, who
often happens to be the biggest gas-bag on board, and
gives a tangled description of saloony bravery, particu
larly his own. If the crew behave with noticeable zea
the company gets the bulk of commendation for rakinv
together such a reliable lot of men. But the steerage
voyao-er very seldom “ comes in ” at all. A week’s sea-
sickness at 30s. the trip is esteemed too cheap for adver
tised heroism. Still some glowing tales could be told of
Wairarapa steerage bravery, notably one anent the saving
of 19 lives by a member of the foreoabin herd.
Dear Bulletin, — When working on Han-
nan’s, last year, I was camped near a W.A. man.
One night, when sitting at the fire, he asked me
where I came from. “Victoria,” I replied.
“Victoria,” he said, questioningly, “Is that part
of Australia?” After taking a minute or so to
recover my breath I told him that it was.
“H—1!” he said, “then you and I must be
countrymen.”—J.C.M., Coolgardie, 15th N0v.,’94.
The man who lately hung on to the handle
of the Duke of York’s carriage until the military
escort captured him, said that he only wanted te
shake hands with H.R.H. It wasn’t his luck to
be very drunk at the time, so the poor devil was
charged with lunacy. Everybody is supposed to
love the Royal Family, but any deadbeat who
gives color to this polite fiction is reckoned unsober
or mad.


COLEMANE A SONS’, Ltd.,
WORLD-FAMED
Eucalypte Extract
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
kJ J-k/J-JKj Consumption, Influenza, &c., &c.
Awarded Sold Medal, Chicago 1893.
ASK FOR
Colemaue and. Sons’,
And see that you get it.
SOLD EVERYWHERE —Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
White Troppo Helmet,
Rain and Sun Proof,
15/6 (POST FREE).
GENT.’S B/6 and 10/6
With Puggaree, 8/- extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for COOKSEY & CO., London.
Gold Medal Hats.
Established 1854,
JOHN M‘NAB&,SON
(COACHBUILDERS),
&BORGE STREET,
BRISBANE.
The LARGEST Assortment of VEHICLES in
Queensland to select from.
APLIN <3c CO.,
STOCK, STATION and FINANCIAL AGENTS,
Shipping', Forwarding and Customs Work. Special
Attention to Commercial Travellers.
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
CHAS. O’REILLY (.Established 1866),
Customs, Forwarding & Commission Agents
A.U.S.N. Co.'s Wharf, BRISBANE.
ALFRED DODDS,
NTI ST—'
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
(opposite “ Courier ” Buildings).
Special Attention paid to Painless Operating.
XX. Gr. KTOBLB & CO.,
(LICENSED) CUSTOM-HOUSE AGENTS.
Goods Cleared and Forwarded promptly to all parts.
Charges Moderate.
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
SUFFERERS from the effects of Boyish Polly,
Nervousness, Debility, Weakness, &o. Send stamped
addressed envelope, and I will forward you full particu-
ars of my own case—how I suffered for years—tried
almost every so-called remedy and specialist, and when all
'rad failed—how I accidentally found a cure. Address,
W.H.W., South Richmond, Melbourne.
HE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE—Ia.; Per POST, la. 3d.
Business Announcements.
/V'SQUare’Divnk
A
Square
BOTTLE
v.o.
LRQMARTV
WrisK/
ROM wry.
WHiskV
AcBHTS-Deftua&Fhillips-
John Lawler & Sons,
Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8 & 10 UNION LANE, SYDNEY
(at rear of 608 GEORGE STREET, Premises lately
Destroyed by Fire),
Bedding and Wire Mattress Manufacturers,
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs and Furniture, Kapok,
Horsehair, Fibre and Flax,
BAMBOO BLINDS, CANE CHAIRS, etc.
Mattresses Cleaned
—AND —
RE-MADE BY STEAM.
WIRE MATTRESSES REPAIRED
—AND
STRENGTHENED.
Suites Ee-covered & French Polished-
The Up-to-Date Photographer,
7 Queen Street, BRISBANE, and GYMPIE.
Views of Queensland, 1890 Flood, Fiji and Island Natives.
By post, 10/- and 12'- per dozen.
T«M e
“I*
Established—
HALF-A-CENTURYI
(Smith & (Mannell
SIIIICT MAKERS,
HOSIERS & MERCERS,
298 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Shirts to Measure or Pat tern.
From 50/- Half-Doz.
AI WHITE SHIRTS
(Ready-made).
Unequalled for Value from
30/- the Half-Doz.
Instructions forSelf-Measu re-
ment posted free on applica-
tion.
** A Trial Solicited ,*
df
Henry jftATnU
THAOS MAM
JSXWI
Gr. HE. SMITH & SOW,
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
BO^
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(™ E CELEBRATED CHiLDREN S SWEET)
■
Lancet..
(THE CEL
3 SWEET)
lC> Ji
A
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
mm
ey
•43.
Business Announcements
Bodalla Cheese.
O^LTJTTOISr.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODALLA
Bears the Registered Brand of the Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent:
JOHN SHEARWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
A, J, Fisher & Co,,
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS,
Charters Towers.
Telegrams receive prompt attention. Clients’
interest protected.
SNAKEBITE ANTIDOTE
Pocket Cases
(Made of Strong Polished Metal).
For Dr. MUELLER’S suc-
cessful treatment of Snake-
bite by the hypodermic in-
jection of strychnine, com-
plete with Poison Sucker.
Price, 18/- postage paid to
all the colonies.
The same, but WITHOUT
Poison Sucker, in leather
case, 18,6; in metal case,
157-
POISON SUCKERS ALONE, 3/6.
L. BRUCK, 13 Oastlereagh-st., Sydney
df
Pianos
All makers. By easy payments, from FIVE SHILLINGS
WEEKLY. Supplied anywhere in N.S. Wales. Write
BEALE .V CO. Ltd., 484 George-street, SYDNEY.
cox «Sc SEALY,
Stock, Station, General Commission Agents and
Valuators,
Paebury’s Buildings, Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
MOKTEY TO LEMD
At LOW RATES of INTEREST by the
N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit L Investment Co., Ltd.,
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Next door to St. James’ School),
Upon Deeds of Land, Furniture without possession, Bond
Certificates, Personal Security. Bills Discounted Daily.
COMPANY
branches
CASTLEMAG3 -BIEW,
A
d«i*
TAUB?
•onob
The shareholders of this Company do not seek to make
large profits, hut are satisfied to receive a Fair Return
for their capital, and are thus enabled to advance money
to borrowers upon reasonable terms.
Persons who pay high rates of interest for loans must
blame themselves, while they can obtain from the above
Company any sum, small or large, at exceptionally low
rates of interest, and can repay the same by WEEKLY or
MONTHLY INSTALMENTS.
Pledge rates of interest obtained on application. All
communications must be addressed to the Manager, or
will not be recognised. LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Medical.
LADIES I!!
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
DR. SPEER
Female Pills for Irregularities, 10s, and 20s, per box,
guaranteed O.K.
M York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
IS2
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorrea, &0., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s Gd. Postal Notes. Prepared
only by COPP, Chemist, Dar-
lington, Sydney. Send stamp for
particulars.
nR.ftBR.CE3
NO TRUSS
In the World wi.il Retain
a Rupt ure or give Belief
like l>r. Pierce’s Magnelic
Elastic • Truss. This Celebrated
Trusshas radically cured thous-
ands of ' cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
Springs. - It can be worn with ease and comfort
Nigrlif and Hay. Perfect fitting Trusses sent by’mail.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet Jf o. 1.
Address MAGNETIC XLASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco Cal.
Or Washington If. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt St..
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisoane, Agents
m
im
BARRY’S TRICOPHEROUS
FOR THE HAIR,
An elegant dressing, exquisitely
perfumed, removes all impurities
from the scalp, prevents baldness
and gray hair, and causes thehair
to grow thick, soft and beautiful.
Caution. —None genuine without
trade-mark ofßarolay & Co., N. 7,, affixed to eachbottle.
vigor
FOR EVERY MAN!
Dr. GEO. Walsh, L.R.O.i'. w a.
the most eminent Specialist in
Australia, treats successfully
Exhausted Vitality, Atrophy,
NERVOUS AND PHYSICAL
DEBILITY, Varicocele, and all Diseases of Man
Without Stomach Drugging. NEW BOOK
FULLY ILLUSTRATED, WRU'IEN port
ONLY, Posted sealed, 6 stamps. The author ma, be
consulted free. Address—Dß. GEO. WALSH,
131 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Lost Manhood
From whatever causes arising, in young or old, CURED
in 34 Days by Dr. BROWN-SEQUARD S TRIPLE COM
POUND LIFE ESSENCE. £1 ss. posied. Pamphlet
posted free. Write P. H. Db Leon, 78 FHnders-street,
Melbourne.
Woman’s Salvation.
The wife’s welfare within her own control. Treatise
posted FREE. It will teach you more at out prevention
than all the years you’ve lived. Write Prof. HERMANN,
French Specialist, 41 Collins-place East, Melbourne.
XT ekbs and herbal remedies
—FOR—
ASTHMA, RHEUMATISM. PILES
and Female Ailments.
Guaranteed Cures. Forwarded by Parcel Post to any
place. Ladies and Gentlemen consult free.
-J. W. CASE,
Mbdical Herbalist,
103 WICKHAM STREET, BRISBANE.
LOST MANHOOD
from youthful folly, excesses, or any other cause, Guaran-
teed CURE. A great scientific discovery by anatomy.
Treatise on “Lost Manhood” posted free, sealed. To
young men contemplating marriage, to the man h d, to
young and old, this book is invaluable, pointing out as
it does the way of relief to those unfortunate suffer is
to whom love is but a hideous, tormenting dream, life
a torture, the future a blank. Every man and youth
should read it. Posted free. Write PROFESSOR
HERMANN, 41 Collins Place, East, Melbourne.
Oriental Female Pills.
Triple power. Restore regularity without fail, no matter
what cause. Sute and safe. Box, posted, 5/6 . Oriental
Vigour Pills for Jtten, 56. Write WILLIAM
GARFIELD, Collins-street West, Melbourne.
Wb
iuU-’-.
0 J
JNfl
MK&BROIM TOBACCO C ?
CLEVELAND STREET SYDNEY
On the Beach.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twelfth-night I remember, dear,
You were on these rugged stones.
Sweetest night of all the year,
And my heart repeats your tones,
Low and tender,
Such as render
Music when a mourner moans.
Setting sunbeams in your hair
Showed me first the bronzed thread
In the sable glory there
Compassing your seraph head,
Poised as Muse’s
When she loses
Self in song by passion led.
Downward glancing to your eyes,
Sweet, I saw a golden clime,
Flushed with lucent melodies
Of the spirit’s rosy prime;
Love unbidden,
Still half-hidden,
Wrote their music and their rhyme.
Still a little shall his songs
Lie unuttered in your eyes,
Till the hour to which belongs
Power to loose them shall aiise ;
Then their flowing,
Sweet as blowing
Of the horns of magic skies.
You shall never know the pain
In my heart that summer eve,
I would have it o’er again
Though to-morrow I should grieve ;
For the spirit
Doth inherit
Joys that melancholy leave.
Wellington, M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.


Spool*! Advertisements
The people of Queensland, in
TOWN AND COUNTRY DISTRICTS,
are invited to Bend their orders to, or visit the
Establishment of,
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
BRISBANE,
Where the finest stock in the Colony of
Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing,
Shirts, Hats, -Carpets, Floor Cloths,
Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bedsteads, Glassy
China, and Crockeryware can be seen in al
qualities, from low-priced lines to the very best.
Sound, good-wearing Materials at Lowest Cash
Prices ! This can be proved in the most satisfac-
tory manner by comparing this Firm’s goods,
qualities, and prices with others, which is the
only reliable test. Everything in their line can
bo had at Finney-, Isles & Go’s., except shoddy
goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all departments, sent to any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
tion of what is required, . and remittance to
cover amount.
Address all orders and make Post-office Orders,
Bank Drafts, &c., payable to Finney, Isles & Co.
Samples, self-measurement forms, full
instructions for taking measures, for men’s or
women’s Clothing; Price-lists, also Instructions
for Shopping by Post, will be immediately for-
warded on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
(Direct Importers and Manufacturers)
Brisbane, Maryborough and London-
INDIGESTION
And Liver Complaint
9 CURED BY USING
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mr. T. J. CLUNE,
of Walkervllle, S. Australia, writes:
“Six years ago, I had an attack of Indiges-
tion and Liver Complaint that lasted for
weeks; I was unable to do any hard work,
had no appetite, food distressed me, and I
suffered much from headache. My skin was
sallow and sleep did not refresh me. 1 tried
K
f »
&
several remedies and consulted a doctor,
without obtaining any relief; finally, one of
my customers recommended Ayer’s Sarsapa-
.rilla; it helped me from the first,—in fact,
after taking six bottles I was completely
cured, and could eat anything and sleep
like a child.” *
Ayer’s JSi, Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair
Hade by Dr. J.C.Ayer & Co., Lowell,Mass..U.S,A.
'THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The moat comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer s chairs,
uirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ng machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
tarber's poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
jombs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
map and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Drop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c. ,
ANTIQUE OIL. Specially prepared for Barbers
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG «5t AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 083 George ‘Orcel S'"*" '
A NEW IiJiMEU i.
WELLCOME’S
ELIXIR OF DAMIAUA
(Registered).
Nature’s CURE for Nervousness and Debility.
A Sovereign Remedy for all Weaknesses.
Manliness Restored.
Life without Damiana to the Debilitated I cannot
imagine.
Send 2d. stamp for (largely illustrated) Medical
Look.
181 Liverpool-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
-B ESI
dozen, posted.
Place East. Melbourne.
FRENCH GOODS, 6s. per
Write Mr. Hermann, 41 Collins
a.da.m:s»
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL.
Pitt Street, Sydney,
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a Superior
Quality. Electric Light.
CHARGES STRICTLY MODERATE.
Accommodation with or without Board. r l ctbl& d Ilote
Daily at 1 p.m.
The Marble Bar is now the Popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Artistic Panel Paintings.
Mr. GEO. ADAMS lawmaking a Specialty of
Walker’s Extra Special Liqueur Whisky
In his MARBLE BAR, Pitt-street, Sydney.
1 CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
Hi y will oiVE A BO ITLE of my remedy for
X nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what 1
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98,O’Connell St., N.Adelaide, S.Australia
11. G. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
White Spotless Arms
Soft White Hands
Shapely nails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
hair are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
ojjgg when all others and the best skin doctors
fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of .facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
are absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
infant. They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
CUTICURA
' Remedies afford instant relief in the most
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless nails.
“ Ai.l about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair *’ 64 pages, too Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
roo Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent. * ci • r*
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure,
-oc. - Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier 25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, sx. Prepared by Pottbr Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
)
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only vtedu
cated toilet son/ and the only preventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of
most complexional disfigurations. Price, 25c.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S LACTO-GLYCOSE
OB 9XIIaK FOOD.
SPECIAIir ADAPTED FOB COUNTRIES WHERE FRESH COW'S MILK CANHOT BE OBTAINED.
Jiae Qoadt are free from, Animal Germs and keep good in any Climate. To be obtained from Qll Druggiitt and.SlOtff.
***>>
1 5*5
arcs-®
Si • '
>r.S
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
RESTORES
Color, Fullness, and Beauty
TO HAIR
Which has become Wiry, Thin, or Gray.
It cures Itching Humors, and keeps the scalp cool,
moist, healthy, and
FREE FROM DANDRUFF.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor is an elegant toilet article, —a
favorite with ladies and gentlemen alike.
It imparts to the hair, beard, and paous-
tache a beautiful silkiness, and a delicate
and lasting fragrance.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
All Druggists and Perfumers,
jap* Beware of cheap imitations. The name-Ayer- is prominent on the
wrapper, and is blown in the glass at tne bottom of each bottle.
BANK OP VAN DIEMEN’S LAND, Limited
(In Liquidation).
Hon. G. P. FITZGERALD, Hon. WILLIAM HART, Trustees.
GrRA-KTID lottshy
(Sanctioned by Special Act of Parliament, 57 Vic. No. 2, 1893).
300,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
First Prize valued .£26,000; Second, ,£22,500 ; Third, £12,000 ; Fourth, ,£10,500; and 372
others, ranging in value from .£9500 down to £lOO.
Apply early—GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania;
or, GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
The Valuation of the above Properties has been carefully checked and will bear the
closest investigation.
It is anticipated that the full amount will be subscribed by the end of this year, but in any case the LIST
will POSITIVELY CLOSE not later than FEBRUARY 28, 1895.
D.T .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His last bottle lay gleaming amongst the brittle,
yellow grass twenty miles back, and he had
drained it so well that after an hour the sugar-ants
no longer tumbled out of its narrow neck, clawing
inanely, and assaulting each other with a stupidity
almost human.
He walked quickly, fiercely, although the in-
tense, white sun seemed to concentrate its rays
upon his neck and between his shoulders, and
to follow him with the malignancy of a sentient
thing. His swag hung uncomfortably low, ana
the blackened billy dangled about his ankles.
The great yellow-winged grasshoppers twanged
against his blistering ears and his cracked and
bleeding lips, stinging him like blows from a cane;
and every now and again a twig snapped, and tore
a new wound in his way-worn feet. But he
heeded none of these things ; he was intent upon
outwalking the two quaint little _ strangers
dogging him like shadows. Only let him escape
them, and he might rest, and bathe his feet in the
cool waters of the creek—and sleep.
The country was now sparsely timbered, stony,
and a mere succession of small hills. The travel-
ing was heavy, and he had forgotten whither he
was bound and everything but the presence of his
tormentors. Curse them ! what did they want
with him ? But he would do them up. He was
the best man on the track from the Gulf to the
Murray ; surely he could outwalk them ! Then he
could camp, and, of course, he would remember
everything when his mind was at ease and he had
slept again.
They had amused him greatly when they came
upon him first near Starlight’s Rise —a. pair of little
men, exactly alike, and each with a little wooden
leg. He had laughed till his sides ached at their
tiny swags, their long beards almost sweep-
ing the ground, and, above all, at their
wooden legs ; but now he was wear3' of
them. Their white faces, and the awful jmalter-
able look of solemnity with which they regarded
him, filled his soul with a vague horror. He felt
that he would like to sneak upon them, and dash
their brains out against a tree ; but his attempts
to get nearer to them had proved quite futile.
They evaded him like ghosts, and now, no matter
how quickly he walked, when he looked over his
shoulder, there they were, stumping stolidly in
his tracks, apparently as fresh as when they
started in the morning.
Another peculiarity of the dumb strangers was
their idiotic manner of imitating his every action.
When he moved they moved; they turned, stopped
and gesticulated as he did, but always with
intense gravity. Their persistence was gradually
working him into a violent passion. He walked
quicker yet, dodging in and out amongst the
stunted timber. Presently he broke into a run,
and rushed headlong down a dry gully, looking
neither to the right nor to the left, spurred on by
his growing horror of the little men who haunted
him. Exhausted at length, he staggered against
an old, deformed gum, and rested upon its twisted
trunk. His eyes were seamed with red veins, and
flecks of mud-colored froth hung on his tangled
beard. ,
A ferocious malediction broke from the man s
lips : his mad race had been all in vain; there
were the two puny swagmen not 20 yards away,
imitating his attitude, and fixing him with their
great, grave eyes.
He threw off his swag, and ran at them, cursing
aloud, and showing his teeth like a dog. They
threw off their swags, and repeated his actions
and no effort on his part could lessen the distance
between them. He tore stones out of the ground,
and hurled them at his tormentors, furious with
rage. They threw stones back at him, and bur-
lesqued all his actions with solemn mockery, like
little devils in a pantomime. . ,
Worn out by his exertions and choking with
passion, he returned to his swag and sat down,
burying his face in his hands. The two little men
sat before him on their swags, each poking a wee
wooden leg out towards him, £ind both regarding
him patiently and mimicking every movement of
his limbs and every expression of his face. He
thought to draw them near him by cunning and
wiles; he spoke to them in tones of friendship,
and tried to smile through his parched lips. He
said he had a bottle of rum in his swag and invited
them to drink. They only stared at him with
stupid gravity and silently repeated his move-
ments. He paused on the brink of another out-
-1 burst of violent rage, holding the sling from his
swag in his hand. , ,
And now a brilliant scheme of vengeance flashed
I into his mind, and he laughed harshly. Hastily
detaching the long scarf, he turned and climbed
into the bent gum-tree, and with trembling, eager
hands tied one end of the sling to a convenient
limb. As he expected, the two little men imitated
his action and stood in another tree, facing him,
and waiting. He laughed again, fiercely, and tied
the other end of the sling in a noose about his
neck, watching to see that his enemies did like-
wise. The dwarfs stood ready. He uttered a
yell of triumph as he rolled from the limb, and as
he hung by the neck, swinging in mid-air, his
darkened eyes, bursting from their sockets, turned
to see the two little men kicking in the last agonies
of strangulation.
SILAS.


“Christmas Clearing Sale.”
The attention of Country Visitors, Hotelkeepers
and the Public generally is invited to the Special
Christmas Sale of
CROCKERY, CHIOTA,
GLASSWARE, &c.,
At Prices Never Before Submitted.
An extraordinary assortment of PARIAN and
TERRA COTTA FIGURES at prices much
below cost.
Sale will only last ONE MONTH, commencing
on Monday, 10th December.
Note th* Address; •
BRAY BROS.’ SUCCESSORS,
404 GEORGE STREET .opp. A.J.S. Bank).
The GREAT
Preservative of all Descriptions of TIMBER.
Prevents Shrinkage, preventing Spokes and
Tyres of Wheels, Break - blocks, &c., from
becoming loose.
dsf
Try this Wonderful Solution on your Buggy,
Coach or Cart Wheels,
Sole Wholesale Agents ;
LICHTNER & CO.,
Carrington Buildings, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
And all
STOREKEEPERS
throughout
AUSTRALASIA.
dsfds
THE DISEASE OF DRINK: INEBRIETY,
WHEN moral suasion, pledges and prayers
prove useless in arresting the maddening
appetite for alcoholic stimulants, the Crave has
developed into that terrible and debasing disease
commonly called Drunkenness. The victim is
Physically Diseased, and by alcoholic poison he is
rendered helpless. Manfully he struggles to beat
back the Demon, but now learns how futile his
will and how great the power of his Enemy.
THE ORIENT INSTITUTE Overcomes and
PERMANENTLY CURES this great evil. The
treatment is simple and most efficacious. Par-
ticulars, and references to many marvellous cures,
on application.
All communications strictly confidential.
D. B. THOMAS, Manager.
376 Park Road, Sydney.
sqasag-
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Sun Cool and Rkfresbko in the Hoxxsr
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, ftc.
And preserves the THK SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OB HARD WATER,
More effectually than anr other preparation.
It is delightfully Coo'ltno and Hkerebhino if applied to
the Face or Hands after being ont in the Bdk. Tennis,
playing Yachting, Ac. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Son, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, la. A2s. 6d. Sola Makers:
M. BKETHAM A SON. Chemists. Cheltenham. England..
FULTON, GRIM WADE *. Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BUGS., Sjduej.
v:
ti,
fOB fe
AVsquifc Bifes
Ift * I V 1/ I J
V !*>s V
vm£l®S
to ,
is
vSimplu unrivalled
1 ** fc
P).
•lS7
F I N D n
iC DlBB3*RZlp
w
f
QUONG TART’S ROOMS,
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
_ (Near Daily Telegraph Office).
Christinas Visitors Cordially Invited.
Comfortable Dining & Refreshment Rooms.
Just Opened—
Ladies’ New Reading Rooms and Retiring Rooms.
Gents’ Smoking Room, Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes.
RICH XMAS CAKES.
Choice Teas, Preserved Young Shoots of Ginger.
Quality of Everything High, tout Prices Low
The Caligraph Writing Machine.
THE CALIGRAPH embodies all the highest
developments of applied mechanics, and its
principle having stood the test of 15 years, its
success towers above the fantastic devices of mush-
room competitors.
“I like Caligraph writing better than that of
any other typewriter because the type comes out
so sharply and clearly.” The prominent Anglican
clergyman, who used these words, had hit upon
the chief characteristic of the Caligraph without
exactly knowing what brought it about. The
result is attributable to the fact that platen of
the Caligraph being bevelled the type strike
against a flat surface thus producing a full and
even impression. When you see typewriting with
only the middle of the letters clear you know that
the machine used was not a Caligraph, but one
fitted with the ordinary round platen. When you
read a typewritten letter, with some of the type
leaning to the right and the rest to the left, you
may be sure that your correspondent has a crude
machine, with curved typebars, which naturally
become more crooked, and thus twist their type
out of perpendicular. Then remember that the
Caligraph has straight typebars which, like every-
thing else in the machine, are fitted with adjust-
able bearings.
The Caligraph manifolds 15 carbon copies at
one operation, and used with the Edison Mimeo-
graph reduplicates 1500 copies from one stencil.
Agents. —Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a
Castlereagh Street; Melbourne, C. S. Cunning
ham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins Street; Bris-
bane, Webster & Co,, Mary Street; Adelaide,
E. S. Wigg & Son; Hobart, J. Walch & Son.
m
NOW READY, POST FKEE Is. 6d
The ballet
GIRL : Her Thea-
trical and Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
India, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
be had only of Madame Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
Hautbawafs STAR Harness
DRESSING
Is universally ack-
nowledged to be
the best prepara-
tion for the pre
serration of
LEATHER.
It contains no acid,
alcohol, turpentine
or anything in-
jurious to leather.
To be had of all RETAIL
Australasia.
Gives a Beauti-
ful Gloss that will
■ CRACK,
Of JMRDEN the
' LEATHER.
DEALERS in
h# Rness DRESSIN G
£SU« ft«s.T. nuiSii
.* . -
KllMiUiWlAMlflllVWl ViBk.IOIAIBIIKI
i« iiMimuM*i»uam*iA\muuWliH(
MjmSi SK flMlSii
c.lhauthaWay&s‘6ns.
OUR XMAS SHOW!
A COMBINATION OF
Mundane Enterprise
AND
ETHEREAL FANCY.
Realms of delight for little people under SEVEN,
oid rare opportunities for SWEET SEVEN-
TEEN ; no end of good lines for middle-aged
buffers, and tons of attractive features for every
ige and way of thinking. The
Piccaninnies’ Paradise
is a facer for showmen all over the world. Here
you have a floor of ten thousand square feet,
brilliantly lit by electricity, and exhibiting all
THE WONDERS OF THE WORLD !
contained within the meaning and scope of the
magic word—TOYS. Then come things suitable
for
Christmas Presents !
Their name is legion—their variety most astonish-
ing. We’ll let them speak for themselves. Suffice
it that whether you’ve only a few saved-up six-
pences to spend, or are moved to liberality to the
extent of a BOUNCING CHEQUE, ours is the
MARKET FOR YOU, because not only is it
our practice to give a LOT FOR A LITTLE,
but, also, you will get more for your money than
if*you negotiated it at any other store. Take
that as
SOLID GOSPEL.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
IIMJEIStL ritOtlUEltS,
HAYMAR BET (ONLY).
Barrington^
—AND —
171 TITT STREEP, SYDNEY,
COMMISSION AGENTS ONLY,
Are prepared to Execute Commissions.
DOUBLES NOW OPEN ON:
Summer & Tatt’s Cups,
SUMMER & CARRINGTON,
Carrington and Tatt s.
300 to 1 rau be Obtained for Clients.
Note the Address:
171 PITT STREET,
TELEPHONE 1158.] SYDNEY.
m
— •
§y
E 3
llj
Mtiiiiiiiil
IE2
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other! s
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 60 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. ELLIS.
STAR
SUMMER CUP: Randwick, December 29th.
VW 10,000 at 2 0
CARRINGTON STAKES: Randwick, Jan, Ist, 1895.
5,000 at 2 &
Address “STAB,” care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE, Q’land.
THE “GRACE WALTZ”
(Dedicated by kind pei mission to Lady Norman;
—BY-
SYDNEY TURNBULL.
The Brisbane Press and Public are unanimous in their
praise of this charming waltz.
To be had at NICHOLSON & CO.’S, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
Best for the Wearied Soles by trying
B L L X S’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladles, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
! ' STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a St. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS’S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
J3T“ Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items; Gent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s 6d ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s 6d; French Calf Cossacks, 14s 6d; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s 6d ; Primes! French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s 6d, Tops for ditto, 12s 6d ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 42s ; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s 6d (worth A 3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s 6d ; Three-quarter ditto, 26s 6d; Half ditto,
23s 6d ; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
6d; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s 6d ; Ladies’ and Children’s
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies’ Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto E.S., 16s 6d. Instock-
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip.
THOUSANDS OP TESTIMONIALS.
“Your boots are beautifully finished.. I wear them with
the greatest comfort.” —F. Viviant, Katoomba, N.S.W.
“The boots you sent me fit splendidly—the best I ever
wore.”—(Miss) E. Corcoran, Spring Flat,.Bombala, N.S.W.
“ 1 congratulate you on your perfect fitting. lam highly
delighted with the bools you made me.”—M. R. Chesney,
Bunda Bunda, Richmond, N. Queensland.
“ The riding boots you made me beat ihe record. Make
me another pair as good, you cannot make them better.”
—Thomas Kidston, Condobolin, N.S.W.
“The hand-sewn boots you made me are perfect in every
way. I shall show your work to my friends.”— Wm.
Armstrong, M.D., Toowoomba, Queensland.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the address :
W. ELLIS, Intercolonial Boot Manufactory
(T. E. Ellis, Manager),
633 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY;
And at Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Winning Numbers in Prize Drawing will appear in New
Year’s issue.
7
hr-
H. Oxenham
—HAS OPENED—
Branch Establishments
—at—
-366 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE,
—AND AT —
BRISBANE.
Business Transacted at TATTERSALL’S
CLUB, SYDNEY, as usual.
Department of Mines and Agriculture,
Stock and Brands,
Sydney, 24th November, 1894.
DISEASES IN SHEEP A CIS & PASTURES
AND STOCK PROTECTION ACTS.
THE attention of owners or persons keeping
Horses, Cattle .and Sheep, and Butchers,
Dealers and Salesmen, is called to the notices in
the Government Gazkttk of the 23rd instant
respecting the returns which inust he made of
their stock under the abovenamed Acts by Ist
January next, under a penalty of .£2O.
R. D. JONES,
Acting-Chief Inspector of Stock.
“Forget-Me-N o t ."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I read in the book of my years
Three treasured words of the dear old days,
They are writ in a pure heart’s tears,
Yet they lead me back with their sunlit rays
To a time when I knew not care—
When Life and the World were fair.
Words of the Dead, tho’ mute they be,
I hear them at eve when the winds are low
And at rest in a reverie,
Like a voice from the grave of long ago,
Set to a strange, weird, dulcet key,
Singing a song of love to me.
Then to my heart I whisp’ring say :
“ Lo, thy sorrow has passed and all thy pain ”
So do I dream till far away
With thought in the past I am young again ;
Buoyant I tread the meads once more
J ust as I did in days of yore.
Christ of the Cross ! I only dream j
I am old and mourn, and my life is grey.
Lit by no bright, no friendly gleam
I wander alone in the night astray—
The dead are dead. Ah, stem old truth,
I have need for a word of ruth.
Shall I forget, withal, that face
As pure as the snow, and those perfect eyes
(Twin orbs that shone with winsome grace)
As bright and as blue as our summer skies,
Cancel the vow I onetime said:
Be Judas and forget my dead ?
I ask but if my heart speaks fair,
I know when we meet in the days supreme,
In the vast and fathomless Where,
We’ll meet as we did in the Past and dream,
Heart linked to heart and hand in hand,
I and my Dead in Love’s own land.
S.


A. D.. 1894.
Qy the return once more of the memorable season so universally observed beyond all
others as one of festivity and family re-unions, and in cases where distance intervenes celebrated
by friendly greetings and presentations, it is not a pleasant reflection to make that there is
always a section in every community unable so fully as their fellows to entei into the hilarity of
the time through physical disability. These demand our commiseration and help, ant., wc
may ask, what greater boon can be offered such people than
A Well-tried and Effective Remedy?
Bright’s Disease is wholly unlike any other disease, in that it produces geneia
derangement of the tissues of the body and involves other organs, even before the kidneys seem
to be disordered. It is recognised as a mysterious every-day malady which is increasing at
an alarming rate.
Dr. William Roberts, Professor in Owens College, Manchester, says: “The disease
proceeds silently amid apparent health.” If you suffer from disease of the heart, stomach or
nerves, at the back of all the trouble will be found diseased kidneys. This it is which in
reality depletes the energies, robbing the blood of albumen, poisoning the organism with uric
acid, and causing the heart, stomach and nervous complaints. The first symptoms of Bright’s
disease should be properly treated. Neglect entails either months of suffering and distress, or
suddenly ends in the grave. Measures for relief must be active, thorough and persistent,
is absolutely impossible to have pure blood and good health if the kidneys are not in proper
working order.
Warners “Safe” Cure
is the Only Remedy possessing the power to expel the uric acid and urea from the system,
as much as 500 grains being secreted every day.
Warners “Safe Cure
acts as an alterative in changing the abnormal tendency to degeneration of the epithelial and
glandular structures—enabling those tissues to excrete the full amount of waste products which
Ts their function, and at the same time restores them to a normal condition.
As to its success as a curative, it has become an established fact that Warner’s
“Safe” Cure is to-day doing: more to increase the averag-e duration of
life than any other known medicine.
Warners “Safe Pills
should always he used in conjunction with Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure, as by the combined action 0.
the two a more rapid good result is obtained.
Be warned agfaiust delay in their application!


The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
CAPILUME!
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10,6
Sole Agents:
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st„ Sydney. |
111 Try It."
9
\
The Result.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FBOll
COUNTRY MILK CO,,
137 to 153 Pai.mkk Street, Sydney.
DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. ELDEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 iouk stiikmt, Sydney
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
'Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
54
THE “PANKLAST" CRUSHER.
No. 1. Invaluable to Prospectors, Assayers
and Mine Managers.
No. 2. Power Machine will crush 2 to 3 cwt.
per hour with 2-horse motive-power.
The simplest and most perfect Crushers made.
t3T Large numbers in use throughout Australia-
Tha BRITANNIA OIL ENGINE.
The best type in the market.
Its distinguishing features are Simplicity, Low
Cost, Economy in Working, Great Power for its
Size and Weight.
Diatomite Boiler Covering.
The best Non-conducting Material extant for
Roofing or any other purpose.
Send for Catalogues.
N. GUTHIIIDGE & CO M
Sole Agents for Australia,
182 Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
To Avoid Disappointment in Hie Purchase or**
MY FAVORITE TEA
Sole Proprietors
/y
9
DMITCrtELL& C° SvQMEY
See that the Top Lid of fhe Tea Caddies agree?
with this Fac-3iwile .
Price List and Samples can be had on application. 138 & 140 Queen-st., Brisbane
Bushell & Company,
Wholesale Cash Tea-Men,
BEISBAUE & BOCKHAMPTOU.
... • .
-
- , . • ~ ■ -’*■
~ - '
mm
r
Bush ell & Company,
Wholesale Cash Tea-Men,
BBISBAUB &
TEA NETT WEIGH
o
None pure and genuine without this Signature
upon each package .of tea.
IRONMONGERY!
BIUI CLEARING SUE
NOW PROCEEDING.
Sweeping Reductions in Prices.
JVTLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd:
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
DO THOU LIKEWISE.
When one sets a candle in a window on a dark
night he never can tell how many lost and be-
wildered travellers it may guide on their way.
I once knew a dear lady who habitually did it
on every dark night. The road that passed her
house was always forsaken and lonesome enough,
and houses were far apart. So, on the general
principle of goodwill to men, she placed her
candle in a sort of projecting window, where it
would shine both ways and do the most good.
She is dead and gone now, but let us hope that
her family keeps up the custom. To be sure, it
brought her many a strange guest, yet she did
what she could for them, and never grumbled—
pay or no pay.
A year or two ago a little book was printed,
containing an account, by Mr. John Hodson, of
Warboys, Hunts, of the way he was cured of a
wasting disease by Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup—a complaint contracted in India, where
Mr. Hodson was once a soldier in the British
A rmy.
This candle of Hodson’s beamed hopefully in
all directions, and, among others, its rays fell
upon the eyes of a woman who needed light at
that particular time. How it came to pass she
tells m a letter, from which we quote the follow-
ing :
“ I was,” she says, “ always healthy up to
May, 1884, when I had an attack of gastric
'fever, which left me low and feeble. I had a
bad taste in the mouth, and after everything I
ate I had great pain in the chest and sides, and
also dreadful pam at the back and between the
shoulder-blades, and a sinking feeling at the pit
of the stomach. My legs trembled and shook
under me, so I could not walk out. Indeed, it
was as much as I could do to get across the
floor. A dry, hacking cough set in and shook
me very much, and I lost a deal of sleep.
“As I grew weaker I was confined to my bed
'more and more, and my daughter was obliged to.
take my place in doing the housework. A doctor
attended me for over a year. He tried first one
ikind of medicine and then another, but none of
them helped me. At the end of the year the
doctor said he could do no more for me, and
recommended me, as a last resort, to try a change
of air.
“I had got a despair of ever getting better
when a book was sent to me full of statements
from different people, telling how they had been
made well of various complaints by using Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup, and I read of a young
man living at Warboys, near me, having been
cured in a marvellous manner by this medicine.
I got a bottle from Messrs. Palmer and Sons,
chemists, Ramsey, and, after I had taken it a
week, I felt relief and gained strength. All my
pain left me, and I have never looked behind me
since. I take an occasional dose of the Syrup
and keep in excellent health. I give you full
permission to use this letter as you think fit.
Yours truly, (signed) Sarah Mason, Ramsey
Heights, Ramsey, Hunts, January 27th, 1892.”
What better use could we possibly put this
lady’s letter to than to publish it ? In this way
it has fallen into the present reader’s hands, and
may turn out to be a candle in the window to
shew him refuge and shelter beside some long and
gloomy path. A word more on this very point.
It is not a matter of choice whether we are to
help one another. We are obliged and hound to do
so by every consideration of morality and utility.
Humanity is like the body of one man : if a single
part is neglected, the rest must pay the penalty.
Therefore, set candles in windows. If, for
instance, Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup has
done you good, say so, publish it, make it known.
Others near you may be groping in darkness.
And it is all the more a subject of rejoicing that
this remedy, as in the above case, conquers indi-
gestion and dyspepsia, because that complaint it
is which clouds the sun for millions on Life’s
hard road.
A QUESTION.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
And so in the death-darkened chamber they
met—
The woman that once he had loved and the one
he loved yet—
The wife that had warped his desire and the
woman he could not forget !
They stood by the bier where between them he
slept,
And the love he had lost in his wife to her
swimming eyes leapt;
But the woman his life had belonged to—his
paramour—spoke not nor wept 1
It was only a story of sated desire—
Of a love merely sexual burnt to an ash by its
fire,
And a husband who turned to a more luscious
love that was his for the hire !
All had sinned. For the husband had killed by
his clutch,
Rough-handed, the fruit of a love that had
dropped at his touch !
His paramour’s sin was not loving, his wife’s
was in loving too much !
And so he had died ; it was over at last;
And across him the two women looked at each
other aghast—
Across his cold corpse, and across the cold
corpse of the loathsome dead Past !
Then the smouldering love of the wife leapt to
flame,
And she poured forth her kisses upon him, and
called on his name.
But the other said “ No, he is nothing to you,
soul and body I claim !”
They looked at each other awhile. Said the
wife wearily,
“He is mine ; for I loved him, and ever shall
love him ; let be !”
But the other sneered, “ No, he is mine, and
mine only, because he loved me !”
Then the two laid their hands on the body
between,
And fought for it, wife against paramour,
fiercely, unseen—
For the body diseased and polluted—as ever his
spirit had been !
And this is the question for answer in Hell:
To which of the women his body belonged, can
you tell ?
Think, was it the woman he loved, or the one
who had loved him too well ?
Maorilaud.
W.A.A.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best; restores the natural color. Lock-
yer's, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere
Nervous sutfeiers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
19 of this issue.


dsf
Butchers’ Produce, Kangaroo, Opossum, Rabbit, Sheepskins, e c.,
FORWARD TO „
M BURNET, WALLIS & CO.
K. M‘BVBNET\
E. 8. WALLIS f
Jt. c. FRANKS
S. J. UFA I)
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & 00.,
and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. (Ltd.).
iyi emt> era
of
'me only House in the Trade
the Firm oouduo. mil KETURNS .
STREET and PYRMONT.
HIGHEST PRICES.
Wool Warehouses: - MARGARET
Produce Stores: CIRCULAR
Offices:
AND
QUAY.
Macquarie Street, SYDNEY.
ds
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1826.
fds
■ n Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOR
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion,
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
The Best
Aperient
For Ladies,
Infants,
and
Invalids.
Prescribed by
Physicians.
All Chemists
1/3, 2/6 and 3/6
Per Bottle.
BOSISTO’S
‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
FOR <
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
m- CAUTION.—Be Careful to Secuaa
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND.”
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S *»
Renders Life Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S- m
Clears the House, tf»e Conservatory, andl
the Garden of aii v lpsectißests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDES., KRUSE’S-m
Preserves lAipsfrprnthe Moth..
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. . KRUSE’S ta
01eauses,Ej()ipestic Pets of Parasites.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. , KRUSE’S *«
Is thp only,, Genuine. Ask for Kruse’s,
an.d takpnonp, other.
KRUSE’S. INSECTICIDE. _ KRUSE’S -w
Said Everywhere, in Tins, at I/-, l/6»
2/6, 5/- each.
bicycles
from.
Om NEW CATALOGUE will be sent Post-free
by request.
EDGE & EUG 18,
248 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CHEAPEST A BEST FIRM FOB REPAIRS*
CYCLISTS!— Be Warned in Time.
As other Firms are trading on our ZXUMBBK Machines*
take notice that none are genuine without this mark.
TRADE
NTB
MARK.
0T- HUMBER’S hold all Ausf ralasian reoords from
1 mile to 10 miles, as {>ut up by W. L. KERR, Amateur
Champion of Australasia.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
The A STEAL CYCLE AGENCY,
70 KING STREET, SYDWB'.Y.
Also Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane, Tasmanin «.nd N.Z.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT "SYSTEM
Publications.
WANTED, Complete Files of The Bulletin
of 1884 and 1887. Manager, Bulletin
Office, Sydney.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections lor VIOLIN
H and PIANO. ‘‘Marth£’ "*£**
•'Crown" Diamonds,” “Tuc"rezia Borgia,;; "
Tell.” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera II Tjoto
tore ” “Les Huguenots. Is. 6d. each. Also arrangeu
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURN E.
Geo. Rotoertaon & Co * !
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
IVLjYV DV/VUO A "
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Lea
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers Cabi le .
Sole Agents fbr Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of lEnglish A Colo trial Celebrities
CHEAP MUSIC.
“THE DEAR HOME SONGS,” " PLAY-
FELLOWS.” These Charming Songs and 1000
popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets. &c., at 3d. each. Of all
dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
203 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
WEBSTER'S
INTERNATIONAL
DICTIONARY
Successor of the
Unabridged.”
A Dictionary of
English,
Fiction,
Geography,
Biography.
A Grand Educator
Abreast of the Times
A Library in itself
Invaluable in the
household,and to the
teacher,professional
man, self-educator.
G. & C. Merriam Co.
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE S
4%g Little Colhns-St.,
Melbourne.
Sydney : riunter-St.
p3*Send for free prospectus
|3TDo not buy cheap pho-
tographic reprints.of an-
cient editions. ,
This trade mark appears on the covers ot au
conies of the International Dictionary. _ _
New from
Cover to Cover.
"WEBSTER’S
; INTERNATIONAL J
DICTIONARY.
I
Ca»ugl3.t !
*» Amours of Gustave,” from the French, 1/-; poet, 1/3.
Besanl-Bradlaugh prosecuted book, “Fruits of Philo-
*oohv " 11- : post. 1/2. “ Romance of a Fair Girl s Bath-
room/’ 1,6, post free. “ Rush for the Spoil,” by Zola,
1/6: post, 2/. Zola’s Works, 1/6 each; post, 2/- Large
assortment—send for our up-to-date list. Mysteries Court
of London, by G. W. Reynolds, 2/-; post. 2,6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book of Nature, Guide Marriage Life and
Relations of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, full and
■explicit explanation of the structure and uses of the
■organs of life and generation in mankind, intended especi-
*ll for the married, or those intending to marry, by Dr.
I, M. Byrn, 3/6 ; post, 4/- Aristotle, complete, price £to ;
posted, 4/- Private Companion Married People ; The
Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
■easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should
be. by Annie Besaiit, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
bis own Schoolmaster, or Hoiw to Educate One s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, so., 1/6.
■“The Silent Friend/’ by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted lor home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book lor every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 6/-,
post free. R. BEAR, Central- Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Medical.
NEW!
THE
IRVING
LIFE
Homceopathic Treatment
Is a Guaranteed Cure for Nervous Prostration, Loss of
Nerve and Brain power. Descriptive book posted, two
stamps. Address,
The IRVING INSTITUTE.
147 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
V"4Ly A. ilsi*
Extra Power. Restore regularity, any cause arising, when
everything else fails. Certain and speedy. Box, 7/6
(postal note); extra strong, 20,- Write Prof. LEO
HAUTMONT, R.M.D., Oriental Ooflee Palace, North
MELBOURNE.
Musical Instruments, etc.
wm7bruce & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strings, mutes, Concertinas, &c.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers.
&1.H' qT
-4
>
rpHE New “ALBERT”
J- Accordeons, two full sets of
reeds, DOUBLE action. Price3l/-.
Sune, superior tone and finish,
25/-. The New AUTOHA HP—any
person can play this instrument,
or vamp his own accompaniments <
to thousands of songs, without ,
any knowledge of music whatever
- Price, with 6 Major and Minot
Pedals, 2 books of tunes, Ac., 35/-. .
Superior tone and finish, 45/-.
Post Free. The “PHCENIX”'
Organelle (for pieces, hymns, on
dances, worked by the handle!..
Best music in the world —a child I
can play it. Price with 6 popular tunes, 35/-; large size,,
55/-. Onlv at J. ALBERT & SON., 118 King-street,,
SYDNEY.' Violin, mandoline, guitar, banjo, cornet, angle,;,
and concertina catalogue forwarded Free. NOTICE.—
Messrs. J. Albert & Son are the only musicsellers ini
Australia charging for all Two Shilling Pieces, songs andi
waltzes at 1/9, post FREE.
Business Announcement.
DADOES AND BORDERS.
A
\ %
%
%
9
Ss>
*
9
&
c
%
<z
*
A.
%
iP
<r
WALL PAPERS. 3d. ROLL.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
I nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT- ,
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a ,
trial, and IT WILL CURE 1
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St.,N.Adelaide, S.AustraliSh
H. G. BOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.!,
Hotel.
m
Wo
Kt
“ fehe Sydney (Qoffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young's Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor;
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board . ... 30s
SPACIOUS BOOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
26s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
BITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS. &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre ,
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk,'to-
Banks, GovernmentOfflcea,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
160 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
jvith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
‘ THE LAST OF A
1 tr PRICE: Uj pet Pott. U 3d. •*»
O’Hara, J.P .
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
James Patrick O’Hara, the Justice of Peace,
He bossed the P. M. and he bossed the police;
A parent, a deacon, a landlord was he —
A townsman of weight was O’Hara, J.P.
He “gave out the prizes,” foundation-stones laid,
He shone when the Governor’s visit was paid ;
And twice re-elected as Mayor was he —
The flies couldn’t roost on O’Hara, J.P.
Now Sandy M'Fly, of the Axe-and-the-Saw,
Was charged with a breach of the licensing law —
He sold after hours whilst talking too free
On matters concerning O’Hara, J.P.
And each contradicted the next witness flat,
Concerning back parlors, side-doors and all that;
’Twas very conflicting as all must agree—
“ Ye’d betther take care ! ” said O’Hara, J.P.
But “ Baby,” the barmaid, her evidence gave —
A poor, timid darling who tried to be brave —
“ Now don’t be afraid—if it’s frightened ye be —
Speak out, my good girl,” said O’Hara, J.P.
Her hair was so golden, her eyes were so blue,
Her face was so fair and her words seemed so true —
So green in the ways of sweet women was he—
She jolted the heart of O’Hara, J.P.
He turned to the other grave Justice of Peace,
And whispered, “You can’t always trust the
police;
I’ll visit the premises during the day,
And see for meself,” said O’Hara, Jay Pay.
(Case postponed.)
’Twas early next morning, or late the same night
’Twas early next morning we think would be
right—
And sounds that betokened a breach of the law
Escaped through the cracks of the Axe-and-the-
Saw.
And Constable Dogherty, out in the street,
Met Constable Clancy a bit off his beat;
He took him with finger and thumb by the ear
And led him around to a lane in the rear.
He pointed a blind where strange shadows were
seen
Wild pantomime hinting of revels within —
“ We’ll drop on MTly if you’ll listen to me
And prove we are right to O’Hara, J.P.”
But Clancy was up to the lay of the land,
He cautiously shaded his mouth with his hand—
“ Wisht, man ! Howld yer whish ! —or it’s ruined
we’ll be,
It’s the justice himself —it’s O’Hara, J.P. !”
They hish’d and they whlshted and turned them-
selves round,
And got themselves off like two cats on wet
ground;
Agreeing to be, on their honor as men,
A deaf-dumb-and-blind institution just then.
Inside on a sofa, two barmaids between
And one on his knee, was a gentleman seen;
And any chance-eye at the keyhole could see
In less than a wink ’twas O’Hara, J.P.
The first in the chorus of songs that were sung,
The loudest that laughed at the jokes that were
sprung,
The guest of the evening, the soul of the spree—
The daddy of all was O’Hara, J.P.
And hard-cases chuckled, and hard-cases said
That Baby and Alice conveyed him to bed —
In subsequent storms it was painful to see
Those hard-cases side with the sinful J.P.
Next day, in the court, when the case came in
sight,
O’Ham declared he was satisfied quite ;
The case was dismissed —it was destined to be
The final ukase of O’Hara, J.P.
The law and religion came down on him first —
The Christian was hard, but his wife was the
worst!
Half ruined and half driven crazy was he —
It made an old man of O’Hara, J.P.
Now, young men who come from the bush, do you
hear ?
Who know not the power of barmaids and beer—
Don’t see for yourself! from temptation steer free,
Remember the fall of O’Hara, J.P.
HENRY LAWSON.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulplioline Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulplioline developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.


SCIENTIFIC SIGHT-TESTING!
To preserve the eyesight and retain good
vision for old age, the eyes should be care-
fully tested by our ophthalmic tests. Glasses
on no account should be used unless properly
adapted to the requirements of each eye. The
careless and haphazard selection of spectacles
often leads to BLINDNESS. Spectacles pro-
perly adapted to the sight preserve the vision,
besides giving ease, comfort and pleasure in
use.
Send for pamphlet on “ The Eye, and how
to care for it. ” Free.
t/i
□
Greenfield & Barracloug'h,
Consulting and (Manufacturing Ophthalmic Opticians,
371 GEORGE STREET
(A.J.S. BANK BUILDINGS. Near KING STREET),
And at liltlS BA NE,
SYDNEY.
[A r o Charge for Testing.
For customers residing in the country, we
have carefully compiled a series of SEIF-
TESTS and questions in connection with our
little pamphlet, which we shall be pleased to
forward to any address in the colonies FREE,
and when these tests are returned to us, we
make glasses suitable to any optical defect.
Prices of Spectacles of best make made to
order—
-10/6 15/- 21/-
A choice variety of Gold Spectacles and
Folders in stock.
Repairs of every description sent by post
will be promptly attended to.
Miners, Drovers and Squatters should send for a Pair of our BEST GAUZE, NON-REFRACTING, NEUTRAL SMOKI
'TINTED SHADES for protecting the Eye from the Sun, Dust, Wind and Plies.
Ist QUALITY .. ~ 12s
2nd do. .. •• lOs
6 cl\
6di
Any article sent by Packet Post Pree of Charge.
/Ist QUALITY (Half-Gauze) 7s 6c
\2nd do. do. 6s 6c3., 3s t d
4
Parsons’ Grains of Gold
K. G. WATKINS «SC- CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— _ ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fds
RY’S
ALTED
COCOA.
MALT.
A
v
o
o
o
<rac£a
ocK>
o
o
o
*
&
o
X
H. A. HEHVEY,
ows
‘•EMBROCATION.
y
f %»L0 |
EVERV v WHERE
m
Tiie
Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
m
Before visaing the Of/ write fo {he Manager for
Qird o; Tariff. Correspondence prompt attended to.
Iste
i\euiJ>hipmentcS of
Bernards
Fngush/!le
Allothjeo.
ś
J. «S£ O.
Sole ilgeu.ta in New Soutli
TTOWARP
Wales for Blesars. Olay ton. and. Sliuttlewortta.
STRIPPERS
and
'WINNOWERS
of all
MAKERS.
BINDERS,
MOWERS,
REAPERS,
TWINE, OIL
and
DUPLICATE
PARTS.
Howard’s
Steel Frame Binder.
!S
■ 9fi&
Howard’s Champion Pure
Manilla Binder Twine.
Howard’s
Champion
Flax
Binder
Twine.
tna
How ard’s
Special
Quality
Machinery
Oil.
Harvesting Machinery of
Every Description .
Write us for Catalogues and Price Lists-
Howard’s
Patent Orient Mower
Wool Presses
and
Hay Presses
of all
MAKERS.
SCOOPS,
and
ALL CLASSES
of
AGRICULTURAL
Machinery.
Howard,
280 & 280 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
(i an
LAST of SIX.”


NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS.
CHRISTMAS, 1894, & NEW YEAR, 1895.
A Holiday among the Mountains!
THE SEA COAST and COASTAL LAKES.
1
WEEPING
ROCK, WENTWORTH
BLUE MOUNTAINS.
FALuS,
The pleasures of an Australian holiday
have become largely enhanced by the
facilities afforded by the railways to the
dweller in the crowded, dusty city or
wide-spreading, arid plains of the interior
to escape to the cool, refreshing atmos-
phere of the mountain ranges, in the one
case, or the delicious breezes of the sea-
side in the other, where, forgetting the
toil and worry of business life, he obtains
the change of scene so necessary to the
recuperation of his physical and mental
powers. To those engaged in the routine
of country labour there can be no greater
enjoyment than that afforded by a holi
day trip to one of the beautiful seaside
resorts in which New South Wales is so
rich ; and the opportunity furnished by
the summer holiday season for enjoying
this pleasure causes the approach of
Christmas and the New Year to be hailed
with delight
by the sun-
browned
bushman,
who possesses
a wide choice
of picturesque
localities i n
which to pass
his holiday
hours.
To many
Sydney, with
its beautiful
surround-
ings, will
form an
irresistible
temptation,
for, apart
from its mul-
t i tudinou s
■*—
Msmm
ON THE HAWKESBURY.
attractions, it possesses much that is
interesting to the lovers of the pic-
turesque; its harbour abounding with
lovely spots, while within easy reach of
the heart of the city are broad sea
beaches and charming bays, washed by
the blue waters of the Pacific. North of
the metropolis is the Hawkesbury, per-
haps the most beautiful river in Austra-
lia, with its extensive reaches, unsurpassed
scenery, and ever-changing views of lofty
hill and luxuriant valley. Beyond this
stream is the extensive lake region of
which Brisbane Water, The Tuggerah
Lakes, and Lake Macquarie are the
principal features. Here the lovers of
boating and fishing may enjoy themselves
to their hearts’ content, while in the
surrounding country there is an endless
wealth of ferns and bush-flowers.
South of the metropolis, almost at its
very threshold, is the magnificent Na-
tional Park,
a charming
epitome of all
that is lovely
and impres-
sive in Aus-
tralian scen-
ery ; and a
few miles
beyond the
famous Illa-
war r a dis-
trict, the Gar-
den of New
South Wales,
the manifold
beauties of
which have
irresistibly
impressed
those who
have visited it. Here, too, are
the Bulli and Macquarie Passes:
Lake Illawarra; Clifton, Wollongong and
other sea-side resorts; Kiama, with its
great natural phenomenon, the “Blow
Hole;” Nowra, the metropolis of the
luxuriant Shoalhaven district; Kangaroo
Valley ; the Cambewarra and other lofty
mountain ranges, and other delightfully
picturesque localities. Every kind of
sea-side enjoyment —bathing, boating,
sailing, fishing, beach-rambles, etc. —may
be arranged at any of the coastal town-
ships or villages, where there is plenty of
good hotel accommodation at reasonable
rates. The Southern tourist district,
between Mittagong and Goulburn, is, in
many places, a land of enchantment.
Here are the celebrated Fitzroy and
Mery la Falls, the scenic glories of Mitta-
gong, Bandanoon, and other favorite halt-
ing places, with even grander landscapes
going beyond. From Goulburn enjoyable
trips may be made to the Wombeyan
Caves, or to Lake Bathurst and Lake
George, the latter being a notable sports-
men’s resort.
Then there are the Blue Mountains, a
realm of shady glens, umbrageous recesses,
rippling streams, silvery cascades, and all
the myriad charms with which Nature
enchants the lovers of the beautiful.
Katoomba and Wentworth Falls, the
stupendous Valley of the Grose, and
the thousand and one natural marvels,
have been brought by the railway within
the reach of the holiday-maker. Then
there are the Jenolan Caves, the great
subterranean wonder-world, which are
easily reached from Katoomba, Mount
Victoria, or Tarana. Everywhere the
holiday-maker, whether from town or
country, finds much that is lovely, re-
freshing and exhilarating in Nature placed
at his command, the tourist and excursion
arrangements by trains being made to
suit the means and convenience of every
class of holiday-seekers.
Holiday Excursion Tickets
Will be issued from all Stations to all Stations (suburban sections excepted),
commencing with the mail trains leaving terminal stations on 15th December,
1894, and thereafter by all trains until Ist January both days inclusive,
available lor return by ordinary trains until 31st January, 1895.
Special Excursion Tickets
Are issued on all Holidays at 2d. per mile First-class (minimum
ss) and Id per mile Second-class (minimum 2s. 6d.), from Sydney
and Suburban Stations to Goulburn, Newcastle,
Sinaleton Wollongong, Nowra, and intermediate stations ; also
io Sydney f rom Orange, Goulburn, Nowra, Newcastle,
nnrl intermediate stations.
m
v :
m
m
mti
m
me.
m
-v w
/’ssfA
igfei Jc
tMlfe
m
-
Us
y«
V toTKwsap
i r
pa
Sip
.- F<A? S&.
Jiete f
■
* SHfesPr
ail
■' { ’-\ • v v
> ' 'A_ :
, * v :%
I'wV fiWßfc» * > «< I*9 ' . fc
- ;' v-
SNiir'^^
MW' v ••*
2* -A.
A FERN VIEW IN THE ILLAWARRA DISTRICT.
CHEAP INTERCOLONIAL PARES.
V _ . Or
Sydney to Brisbane and vice versa:
Sydney to Adelaide and vice versa :
Sydney to Melbourne and vice versa:
First Class Return, £5 Second Class, £3
First Class Return, £7 6s. 3d.; Second Class, M 19s.
First Class Return, £5 6s. 6d. ; Second Class, £4 Is.
„ „ f . additional Trains Mother arrangements for the Holidays will be found
£££s:*** ...»*-“» *•' G Zl7nm iN
AT/ (T A 1I F AXT Q/invofaPV


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
ROBERTS’
*Bmgle Bottle
Department,
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next George Street).
Please observe the Prices ;
Hennessy’s *** Pale Brandy ... ... 6/3
RfSbertsou’s *** Whisky ... ... 4/3
Usher’s Special Reserve Whisky ... 4/
Brown’s Four-Crown Whisky 3/9
Wolfe’s Schnapps ... ... 4/-and 2/-
VERV SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
'Splendid Rum for Coughs & Golds.
‘iST" Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
Box 1034, G.P.O.
W. MAM MATT
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated CS-oods
—AND—
CUTLERY of every description..
SHEFFIELD.
Telephone 973.
& SONS,
SHOW ROOMS:
Empire Chambers,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
«< Block 99
Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
HELIDON SPA WATER
Is a Natural Table Water.
TO BE OBTAINED AT ALL THE PRINCIPAL HOTELS AND CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
The SEA-WATER SWIMMING
AND HOT BATHS,
4 0 0 PITT S T R E E T (C I T "ST),
Are now conducted by J. & J. WALKER, of Park-street.
Each Bath 100 X 40, supplied with Pure Sea-water DAILY, by contract with City Council.
First Bath, 6d. Second Bath, 4d,
OPEN—S.3O A.M. TILL 9 P.M.
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT —
JAMES STEDMAIN
IS THK
Sole IVEannfactnrer
LION "
CELEBRATED
BRAND
Confe ctionery.
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE COMPANY
(LIMITED),
25 HARBOUR STREET,
135 KING STREET,
92 KING STREET,
23 ROYAL ARCADE,
MILK
CREAM
ICE
Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney.
FOR
BUTTER
FISH
ETC.,
ETC., ETC.
GAME
POULTRY
PASTRY
H. PATESON, Manager.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
Mining Engineers, SYDNEY.
5 / Huntington Mills
3¥
& 55 55 •••
4' Plain True Yanners
„ Belts
€295
195
100
25
4' Corrugated Frue Yanners, €125 Corrugated True Belts, €5O
No. 1 Dodge Pulverisers, £450 No. 2 Dodge Pulverisers, €3OO
Windmills, €l2 10s.
Low Prices In. all classes of Machinery.
df
CANADIAN CLUB WHISKY.
*NA
Ml*
18
M
I
i
CANaoiaM
1885
l-v ty, „ 1
111
fill F «**,)!* .it
Wjj tfff% t f "** ,J^|
brothers
(aorntb),
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
Accommodation for 100 Persons.
/Ala
£
ft
ERIALHOTii
BRISBANE.
Elevator, Fire-Proof Staircase.
Electric light Throughout.
“ Honest drink which n’er left man i* the mire.”
Shakespeare, *• Timon of Athens Act 1, Sc. 2.
A !/• BOTTLE OF
Bell’s Sparkling Extract
Makes Five Gallons of the most Delicious
Tonic, Non-Intoxicating,
SPARKLING BEVERAGE.
No trouble to Make, and
A Pleasure to Drink.
The Very Thing for Hot Weather.
To be obtained in every Store, and from
OA.R.SOKT & 00.,
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
WE DON’T HOLD RECORDS, BUT WE HOLD THE
Best Agency In KT.S.W.
s
p
E
E
D
R
I
Q
I
D
I
T
Y
—FOR—
JAMES
SIK
“'" f I |ji||ppi!iiiiiPf 9 1 lliliiii
mo-am a» Hio-m$
WE ALSO CARRY A STOCK OF
“ San spareil,” “ JElswick,” “JR. & P.” and “Rapids”
AT CUT-THROAT PRICES.
KST The REPAIRS (under supervision of Mr. H. A. Stanley, Manager of Cycle Department)
ARB OUR STRONG POINT.
W. C. FALLICK & SONS, 196 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
“A GOLDEN SHANTY.


IN FULL CRY.




Business Announcement.
ONE POUND
POST FREE
THE WATCH FOR
DIGGERS
THE WATCH FOR
E N
BUS
THE WATCH FOR
everybody
POST FREE
ONE POUND
The King of Timekeepers^
The works of a watch are its
chief essential. The works of
the Ap©X watch equal in all
regards those of high-class silver
and gold watches costing- from
£7l^lßA
The untarnishahle case of the
ApeiS Watch is ot nickel,
beautifully engine- turned, with
star and garter. iSo more elegant
or compact watch can be bought
for money.
The Apex Watch is a keyless
short-winder ; ten turns wind it
for 24 hours. The keyless work
is extra strong! with safety barrel.
The watch is thoroughly regu
lated and timed lor immediate
use, and will last as long, with
even the roughest wear, as any
watch for which you pay 20 tunes
the money.
BEAUCOURT, FRANCE^
One Bound sent to the Beau-
'courtWatch C0.,80x686, General
Post Office, Sydney (when notes
are sent, "letters must bo regis-
tered), will secure delivery by
registered parcel post of Q ne
Beaucourt Watch at any address
in Australasia.
Reference —Manager, Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney,
[When ordering, mention Thk Bulletin.]
cc
ALL
AGENTS.
life'*.
n h
.
k •
‘KOERSTZ PATENT DOUBLE ACTING
-AND—
Deep WeU
THE BEST IN THE WOULD-
f Don’t let your Gardens perish and Stock famish
for want of water when you can obtain it readily.
The “ Koerstz Patents” give a more abundant
supply and with half the labor required for any
other pumps now known.
The “ KOERSTZ DOUBLE ACTING LIFT
PUMPS ” are suitable for raising water from any
depth up to thirty feet, and run so easily a child
can work them.
The “LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS” lift
up to thirty feet, and force a similar height.
For Wells from 40 to 100 ft. deep, nothing can
compare with the “ KOERSTZ DEEP WELL
PUMPS.”
. . . ,
For Mining Purposes, where large quantities ot
water have to be dealt with, the only limit to the
capacity of the “KOERSTZ RO lAR
PUMP” is the strength of materials, and the
motive power required is one-half less than for any
other pump of equal capacity.
fredk mason,
(SOLE AGENT), ;
239 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
-THE-
ind.laruTD’ber, Guttaperclxa
—AND —
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO. (Limited)
WORKS;
SILVERTOWN, ENGLAND.
PERSAN BEAUMONT, FRANCE
283 GEORGE STREET.
TELEPHONE, 882.
P.O. BON, 286.
guttapercha AND ALLIED GOODS.
For M. Engineers
For E. Engineers
For Mine Managers
For Miilowners
For Sluicing
For Irrigation
For Breweries
For Distilleries
For Yignerons
For All Steam Users
For Sports Clubs
For Athletic Clubs
For Druggists, &c.
For All Industries, &c.
And for Family Use.
T R and ASBESTOS GOODS, for all Requirements
ELieTRTCCABI.ES, WIRES STORES *«■
ROPE-DRILL HOSE, PUMP BUI TS, I.R. BOOia
MACHINE BELTING and I.R. GOODS, &c.
SPECIAL HOSE and I.R. BOOTS
SPECIAL HOSE and I.R. BOOIS
SPECIAL HOSE, &c.
SPECIAL HOSE, &c.
f^^nd L ALLIM) to suit Requirements
TENNIS and GOLF BALLS, &c.,. TENNIS SHOES
TYRES PEDAL RUBBER, &c.
AIR and WATER CUSHIONS and BEDS, &c.
UNIVERSAL, USEFUL LR. GOODS APRONS
WATERPROOF SHEETING and W.P. NURSING AI RONS.
WATERPROOF GARMENTS and FABRICS, and W.P. CAMPING-OUT SHEETS, &c.
s”rNcSt « gecko* street, facing ~ ~
WARBURTON
Head Office —WARBTJKffiON’S WHARF, PYRMONT.
Branches-Cowper’s Wharf and Dowling-street, Woolloomooloo ; and Alfred-street, North Sydney.
COAL & PRODUCE MERCHANTS,
Sawmill Proprietors, Steamship Owners, etc.
qppniATJTY -COAL. WOOD, etc. Supplied in any quantity at the Lowest Po ßH ihl»Price
—“ ” The Oldest-established Firm of Coal Merchants in New South Wales,
m- We supply Coal 10 all parts of New South Wales and Victoria, and elsewhere.
'THE LAST OF SDL
Tales of the A ustral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC, with Prefatory Note by ROLF BOLDREWOOD.
Price; One Shilling.
POSTED to any AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS, is. 3d.
‘Tales of the Early Days’
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
> • ' . * ' ''/ , ’ '' \
Q— ~
Bound in Boards, 2s. 4d.; Cloth, 2s. 10d., post paid.
« Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
(Registered)
Medical.
Marvellous Cure
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS and CHEST COM! XjAIJN J-o
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6dT Sold everywhere.
SEE YOU GET BOHHIHGTQH S>
-
M A IV M O O I>.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
dsf
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
T)r Rir.nrd s Essence of Life restores Health ana
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human ft am.
In eases of 12s, or four quantities in one for JOs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
for Austrcdasia-Perry <b Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBO URNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st, Sydney
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliaxn’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. Every
jufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable’
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No fem&w should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
ne found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the,keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the f hole physical
energy of the human frame. These are I ACTS tes ifted
continually by members of all classes of society ; ami
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general. Asthma,
Affections Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c these Pi Is
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offeied to the
Sand speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which _ nightly derive
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkkouaw‘« p™ 0 ®
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will
short time be removed.
Preoared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, bv the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
<l r*Knl Medicine Dele,.
Full direction, are given with each hex.
ciL4
PATENT
n
PILLS
: :
&
38
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
Universally admired. Other Odours
pall upon the sense, but Atkinson’s
‘ ‘ White Rose ” is ever fresh and sweet.
ATKINSON'S
EAU DE COLOGNE
Renowned for a couple of centuries,
this Perfume has given rise to a legion
of Worthless Imitations. Use only
Atkinson’s English— the finest.
Of all Dealers.
& E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION I —Only genuine with shield
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Tm ' ' ‘ "”” "
Trade Mark—a “ White Rose ” 4
and address In full. A
BBOU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative,
CUBES FItOMfTUY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS
SOLD IN PARIS bv
j. FERRB
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.


DURABILITY & ECONOMY
THE CELEBRATED
Orient Clothing
FOR BOYS’, YOUTHS’ AND MEN’S WEAR.
For Business,
Office,
Evening Wear.
a
For Walking,
Riding,
Travelling.
NEW SHIPMENTS NOW TO HAND. Special Selections suitable for all purposes
The Chief Features of the Orient Clothing are its Selectness, Durability and Cheapness.
__ Tlw Mater “ ls are 0,1 Woo > » nd D Shrunk. The Patterns are Choice and Useful. The Cut, Style and Finish are Unequalled.
Tlh-o T 7" etluio is "CT nri'va-lled.-
dsf
*
Send for Samples and Measurement Forms, post free on applicaticn
3ELRIC_B LIST TOE IMIIEIEsPS —
Men’s Single-Breasted Sac Suits.
Plain and Fancy Cheviot Tweeds, 40s
Self-colored Sergerettes and All-Wool Fancy Tweeds 45s
Scotch Checks and West of England Tweeds, 50s.
Fancy Bannockburns and Self-colored Sergerettes, 55s
Specially-selected English Tweeds and Silk Mixtures, 63s
Navy-Blue Estaniene Serge, Indigo Dye, 35s
Navy-Blue Vicuna and Regulation Serge, 45s
Navy-Blue Staff Serge, Superior Quality, 55s
Black Sergerette and Corkscrew Worsteds, 50s to 60s
Men’s Single-breasted Walking Coat Suits.
Self-colored Sergerettes, 52s Gd, 55s
Very Dark West of England Silk Mixtures, 68s 6d
Navy-Blue Vicuna Serge, 50s
Black Diagonal and Corkscrew Worsteds, 555, 65s
Lounge Suits.
(SACS AND TROUSERS ONLY)
W l<ite and Drab Khaki, very Durable, I4s 6d
White Duck Cotton, 13s 3d ; Linen, 24s
Fancy Tweeds and Angolas, 22s 6d, 28s 6d
White Serge, 255; Striped Serge, Choice Goods, 355, 37s Gd
Men’s Single-breasted Sac Coats.
White and Colored Duck, 7s 6d, 8s Gd
White Linen Duck, 13s 6d ; Colored Alpaca, 9s 9d, 11s 6d
Black Alpaca, 9s Gd, 12s Gd ; Black Cashmere, 15s Gil
China Silk, 15s Gd ; White Silk, 22s Gd ; Black Silk 42s
Blue Serge, 17s Gd, 22s Gd, 27s Gd ; Black Worsted, 255, 29s Gd
Lounge and Tennis Jackets.
Zephyr and Flannelette, 5s Gd ; Striped Blazers, 10s 9d
Angola and Ceylon Flannel, Bs, 10s Gd, 12s; White Serge 14s Gd
Navy-Blue, Sky-Blue and Navy-Blue (bound Sky and Yellow) 10s 9d
Men’s Patrol Jackets.
White and Drab Khaki, 8s Gd ; White Duck Cotton, 7s Gd •
Black Alpaca, 12s Gd ; Black Cashmere, 15s Gd
China Silk, 15s Gd ; Blue Vicuna Serge, 18s Gd
Linen, 13s Gd
Men's Single-breasted Walking Coats..
Black Alpaca, 19s 6d ; Black Cashmere, 23s 6d.
Black Diagonal and Corkscrew Worsted 30s, 37s 6d,
Blue Vicuna Serge, 28s 6d ; Black Vicuna (with Vest), 46s 6d.
Double-breasted Frock Coats-
Black Alpaca, 26s 6d ; Black Cashmere, 30s; Black Cloth, 555.
Black Diagonal and Corkscrew Worsted, 52s 6d,
Men’s Vests.
White Duck, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d ; Fancy Duck, 7s 3d. 8s 6d
Fancy Cashmere 7s 3d, 8s 6d, 10s ; Dark Fancy Cashmere, 9s 6d!
Cream Mohair, Elastic Back, 10s 6d ; Fancy Washing Si k, 13s 6d,
» lack Alpaca and Cashmere, 7s 6d.
White Duck Dress, 8s 6d ; White and Black Silk Dress, 10s 6d to 15s. '
Vestettes.
White Duck, 4s ; Fancy Duck, 5s ; Black Silk, 6s 9d.
Men’s Trousers.
Fancy Tweeds, 10s 6.d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 15s 6d.
Fancy Worsteds, Newest Designs, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d.
Blue 6d, 14s 6d; Black Worsteds, 14s Gd, 18s 6d, 2Xs Black
Bedford Cords, 18s 6d ; Whipcord Riding Tweeds, 19s 6d.
White Serge, 10s M, 17s 9d ■; White Flannel, 14s Od ; Striped Ditto, 8s fid.
White Duck Cotton, 5s 9d ; Linen, 10s 6d ; White and Drab Khaki, 6s 6d.
Men’s Chesterfields.
Coloured Persian Cord, 19s 6d, 21s ; China Silk, 19s Gd, 21s.
Black Alpaca, 18s Od ; Black Cashmere, 21s, 27s 6d.
Sanitary Tweed, 23s 6d ; Self-coloured Sergerettes, 28s Od, 355,
Very Thin and Light.
CravenettetabK ’ C«pc.Costs (No Sleeves), Blade and Grey, Thoroughly
Mackintosh Tweed “York ” Overcoat Dark, Grey, and Fawn. Lined Silk
ihoroughly Waterproof, 69s 6d.
10*
m
m
V
PARENTS WILL FIND
The ORIENT CLOTHING Truly Economical
For their Boys’ School and Best Wear.
Samples and Illustrated Price List Pree on application.
Purchases of £2 and upwards sent (carriage paid) to any Seaport or Railway Station in the colony.
************************************** ♦ ♦ ♦♦♦ ♦*»♦♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦+♦♦+++»»,»»+++
DAVID JONES & Co .
OPPOSITE GENERAL POST OPTIC B,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
