

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS * T 5 EACH.
Anniversary Handicap, Jan. 26 - 10,000 at 5 Hack.
yw~ Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
n a—^i.
JEwe
Mining
a. WATKINS «S£
107 Kent street, Sydney,
•5
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ò
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
ZX3
r;
4>
° o^>
O
<RAc^aJocK>
o
c
v ° - Cfc.
s o ft
-S
V
O'
K. A. Hervey, Agent, 28 Pltt-st , Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
&ADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Doff, the Earl of Jkesky,
Lord Oa*rin t gton, etc.,
385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING AND HAND BAGS, ETC-
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
%W~ Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port. '
The
Oxford Hotel, mug Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... - Proprietor.
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
‘ Duff, K.C.M.O.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
FOB
MILK ..
CREAM ..
ICE
BUTTER
FISH
CAME ..
POULTRY
PASTRY, Ac...
The Purest Country,
bouble or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“ Golden Star ” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ice:, butter,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
H. PATH SOY,
Ist July, 1893. Manager.
o
J. c. XX
sole Agente New W«,Ie .S for Me.«» Cloyton ShutUeworth.
• HOWARD’S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, WINNOWERS, RAKES,
HARVESTERS, REAPERS.
m
umxixisNfo twccuk
ctMcxa
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 28,000 MADE AND SOLD.
1« Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
iZontyl ‘Engines of alb cl,fusses : Undertype Engines ; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable 'Thrashing Machines of all siaes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn SboUer*.
fits®
■
HOWARD'S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL. ETC., ETC.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINWNG ENGINES, Tit ACTION ENGINES. KT FuU’Gafcalogues of Engines, Agricultural Imptom«nte and Harvesting Machinery oh application.
j. & C. Howard, 2QOJ Pitt street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 14.—N0. 728. J
[Saturday, January 27, 1894.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
-1 h - ————————


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tbo Brigßtozx of HTew South. Woles.
k most Comfortable High-class Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families,
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., “BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
o
Mrs. JESLZXjiIMCX3KrS a JL*£3j!bc. .... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TI
uawsw
Russian
Brand.
ò
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia — "T. J. Mac Willi am, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
CL
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OCULIST OPTICIAN,
494 GEORGE STREET, S3T ID IN" IE DT
JJAS just received a NEW STOCK of reliable ©old and Silver Watches, Jewellery, Gold and Steel
*~ L Spectacles, suitable for Christmas Presents and New Year’s Gifts.
REAL BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4/6 per Pair. Complete Price-list forwarded on Application.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
*ar APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. m. PERRY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
ET A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ~ grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. iW Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
usurious
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
08. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILES
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Free Freaoriptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
br the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
. Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
Miscellaneous.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Jt*rice Us. bd.
Aifejfouci
o
Sf GTOOfr
V TRADE MASK
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Os. Od.
A Splendid Hat for Boating:, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in _ the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
O-. H. SMITH & SOIXT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
#jjc °^ fb?
i
»
M
Impatient Housewife (to messenger): “What
Baking Powder is this you have
brought me ? ”
Messenger : “That’s what was given me.”
Impatient Housewife (excitedly) : “ Then
take it back, and ask for—
BATHO’S Powder, for, you know.
That other brands deceive them
With “ ads ” and jokes that pass as smokes,
They tempt you to believe them.
But oft my thoughts again repeat,
That BATHOS Powder is the best,
And I know it can’t be beat.”
(Soldene.)
M ANHOOD.
HEALTH -
O- RJCORqV
f £ .
The. only Infallible Remedy for HERILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
c/ Dr ' Rteordt Essence of Life restores Health and
strength to the. most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating alt the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for ,16s. Freight
atra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
Agents for Australasia—Perry <* Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, PUstroy, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
idical.
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
Fragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Use none but Atkinson’s,
the original and only true Essence.
ATKINSON’S
OPOPAMAX
WOOD VIOLET
heliotrope
TREVOL
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance-
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
S 4, Old Bond Street, Bondon,
CAUTION! —Only genuine with shield-
sh • pe blue and yellow label and usu-
V. Irade Mark—a “■ While Bose”—' 4
Mi, and address in full. • jA
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
sufferiny from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing oases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
ew STEELE’S GALVANIC
gents belt
m
ELECTRIC BELTS TS*
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from th# use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, rheuma-
tism, sciatica, neuralgia, lumbago, gout, indigestion
liver disease, &c. STEELE’S BELTS forwarded imme-
diately upon receipt of £2—registered letter, post-order-
or cheque. When ordering Belts, send waist measure
above the hips.
A.- R. Gregory,
Minerva Chambers,
126 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
&
PATENT
PILLS.
:■
&
*
58
re
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Fills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No fema>B should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Boecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beech ams Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkbcitam's Couoh
PiLbS a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY , N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nouparel'
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System - one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present ;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper- ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or, less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while. The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest- paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clauns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maori land
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
W illiam Maoleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald. I


Medical.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
g y of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
„ • v.i a Pniipce in Obstetrics. Forensic Medicine
ErtSSSi?!& ta. m,.ioio ß r, HI.;
gS* (Km aoveramratT MW Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his tees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
‘‘NERVOUS & SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause I ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vmds will, on receipt of £1 !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Yin6s with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected. . , ,
Twenty-three years experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis*
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
X Cliarge KT otliing
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Vin6s for Advice and Treatment; be
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Honrs of Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday-9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications j
Dr. JBCKELL VI3XTES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Business Announcements.
o
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR-
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
ANTIQUE OIU. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
BBQ A 683 George Street. Sydney.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY I'UiCE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
fJULES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
V’ i be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
■STOXJIXrQ- 3mZE33ST
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely ; —Frequent headaches ;
giddiness ; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen; impure blood;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &0., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A Large, Handsomely-Bound Book,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DE3BILIT Y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIB,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none bub the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he'has’practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(Two doors from Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Hotel,
m
so.
“ fehe (Sydney <§offee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TAKIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £i 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &o.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
A'ith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W. O- lEIEjIDIRUDG-IE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Per Acre. £1
No Rents I No Landlords!
Your Own Some !
A ACRES of Good, Fertile Land, within
easy distance of Sydney, at .£1 per acre,
upon terms of JEB Cash down, and the balance
may remain, if desired, 32 years at 4 per cent,
interest. Full information on application to
(grank (Beckmann,
21 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
•jSL t3«3C o j\c ‘aano ojxc
suspenso Rv
fv
cr
m!
mHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and dc
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the mosl
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY,
■v
s';
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from all parts of the -world and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’*
'Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Read the letters:
From Australia.
Mr.W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows:
“To W. H. Soul h Co., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce's Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney; Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebeltassoon asitisplacedonbisbody.forlfelttheeffect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, 1 am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England. .
Mr. Ohas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaksas follows; “I can say that I have feltbetter, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Cham Belt, anal
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” From America.
Mr. J. W. POHLMAN, Tacoma, U. S. A.,■writes— Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got up as if nothing had happened, the back
troubled me ever since until I tried your belt. Poroneyear
now I have felt as I used to at 20.”
Jr3f Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce s Belts
Call, or write for free descriptive PampWet No. 2, and
flense mention th you address. W. H. I soul * Co.,
158 Pitt St.. Sydney; Elliott 8r05.,:6 * A
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San Francisco, U . s. a.
6 6 rp ALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE Is by Post Is. 3d.
Publications.
georgeTrobertson & CO.,
Retail liooJtsellers and Stationer» t
ms GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Smith (Ooldwln), United States, 1402 1871
Anstey (P,), Man from Blankley’s ..
Grand (Sarah), Idealtt .. ..
Boys, Vo), I,
Hatton (Joseph), Under the Great Seal
Plurschelm, Rent, Interest and Waites
Passing of a Mood, Pseudonym Library
Meggendorfler, Humorous Picture Book
„ Monkey Theatre
Kipling (Rudyard), Many Inventions
8 '0 posted 10/-
6/- „ V-
-8/0 „ 4/0
7/0 „ 10/0
8/0 „ 4/0
V- .. 1/2
1/0 1/10
3/- .. 4/-
7/0 . 8/0
0/- , 7/-
NEW SERIAL VOLUMES.
USTBALIAN CHRISTMAS CARDS.
o
WHAf
CUpip
‘ ‘ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Rash for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1, 6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by O.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Lite and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Besant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3,6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
‘ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and publio
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book IJjepot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY
Shipping.
England via America
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng'
land: —
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, =£s2 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows;
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON: £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost .to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, SYDNEY.
PILLS.—For General Debility,
'J Weakness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseurs,
M.D., Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in
the world.) Electric Pills are the most speedy
and most powerful remedy in the world. One
box will be sufficient, and in even the weakest, the
oldest, and most shattered, work a miracle, while
perfectly harmless, leaving no bad aifter effects.
Guaranteed Never to Fail, Worth their weight in
gold. Price, 10s. 6d., post free, from the sole
agent, W. PARSONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke-street
east, Melbourne.


v
-u
f
s£»
Petty's Family Hotels Sydney*
WYNYARD SQUARE;
Is UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Large, well-ventilated Bedrooms.
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladies’ & Gentlemen's Dining & Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’ll6te as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
Business Announcements.
MANUFACTURE
14% WAT'S///,
Merger^
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at once
PIIOCIiA-lM
tub
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
"W" orld-renowned!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses: —
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s.,
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
ô
THP
SiSf£ s J
ct&SEST
®6WIKG
machine
Before purchasing any other
SEND FOR CIRCULAR OF ask yOUf
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
mm
home
JtoJohnston&Co.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
W. Jno. Baker, Cutler,
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 13 6 each ; Plainer Finish,
7,0 each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Awarded FIJI ST PRIZE by Royal Ayri~
cidtnral Society,
3 Hunter-st., Sydney
ó
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
JUST ARRIVED, per S.S. AUSTRALIA, FASHIONABLE SHIPMENT OF
Summer Suitings, Tweeds, Serges and Fancy Worsteds.
TWEED SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 45/- TROUSERS, 18/6
SERGE SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 50/- TROUSERS, 15/-
BOUND CORKSCREW SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 50/- TROUSERS, 16/6
VST" Country Customers please write for Patterns, Tape and Self-Measurement Forms.
LONDON & MELBOURNE TAILORING CO. s. n. m umasuk, Manager.
Bank of Yan Diemen’s Land, Limited
(IN LIQUIDATION).
GRAND LOTTERY
Sanctioned by Special Act of Parliament of Tasmania,
57 Vic. No, 2, 1893.
And by SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT with the Bank’s Trustees, conducted by G.
ADAMS (TATTERSALL’S), as Sole Agent.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES ;
IN
300 > 000 Shares
£300,000
£1 Each.
First Friae:
Magnificent Corner Property in centre of City of Hobart, rental value £ll5O per annum,
together with well-assorted Stock of Wholesale Chemist and Druggist, recently valued at
£SK)B4. The Trustees guarantee to deliver to the Winner Stock to this Value, or to make
up any deficiency in Cash (total value, £25,000)-
Second Prize valued at £22*500; Third* £12*000; Fourth* £lo*soo
And. 372 other Prizes,
Ranging from £O3OO down to £lOO.
Address all applications to
OR,
GEORGE ADAMS,
Collins Street, HOBART, Tasmania;
GEORGE ADAMS,
Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
Bo sure and register your letters, and take care of the receipt for registration till you receive our reply.
Any further particulars can bo obtained from Messrs. CURTIS & BARRY, Solicitors’
King-street, Sydney.
Medical.
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTE
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &o.
Sold Toy all Chemists and Storekeepers
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF 4 CO., Sydney
lOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
MASSEY & CO.,
746 George Street, Sydney.
WHOLESALE BY
MANUFACTURERS]
FACTORY. YOUNG, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
TAYLOR BROS.,
248 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ORIGINAL Akd SOLE
MANUFACTURERS
OF THE
o
Celebrated NEEDLE WOOD PIPES
State Shape when ordering.
Prices :
Silver-mounted and Vulcanite Stems.
4/6 5/0 (i/6 7/0
NEEDLE WOOD is vastly superior to any-
thing yet discovered.
• Taylor Bros, are prepared to return.the money
to any gentleman who, on trial of Needle Wood
Pipe, can conscientiously declare that it is not the
Best, Sweetest, Coolest and Dryest Pipe he ever
smoked. This is the opinion of every purchaser
so far.
Pipes sent to any part of the world (post free)
0 n receipt of Postal Order for the above amount.
Hotels.
4—i—— ■ ■—
--THE—
Wentworth Hotel
WENTWORTH
> Si
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
K
A T O O M B A.
The PRIORY.
Gardens, Orchard, Ballroom, Tennis adjacent,
Dairy.
Terms - JE2 2s.
Mrs. J. W. FLETCHER.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach yon more in ten
minutes than all the years you’ve lived. Write. Prof. HER-
MANN, French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELB.
Banking.
-THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES .
o
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in. Sydney-
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Dap or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKI3N Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
CROMARTY
(»«Ofrt f STBTHt GM-^B
m
CEOMIY
'Whisky
Greenlees brothers
OIKSCONLOMONMI)
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Medical.
Teeth.— a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEET K, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages :
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACK E TT writes : “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post free on Replication to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 08 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to C p.m.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limit ed.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SIDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Stea m Engines, Boilers, Gas Engine s,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
IOT Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Christmas Cards! & Netv Year Cards!
Vide Daily Press.
The Stationers’Hall Company and Book Depot (C. E. Fuller and Company), opposite the Strand, 385 George-
street, is now holding its popular annual Exhibition of Christinas and New Year Cards, Gifts, Presents, &c. The dis-
play is a very artistic and pretty one, and for beauty of selection and design the company’s Exhibition stands un-
rivalled. The card-room is very tastefully arranged and well worth a visit. The assistants are most obliging, and the
numerous visitors fail not to show their appreciation.
PACKETS of 12, 25, or 50 CARDS for Is., or FINER CARDS at Is. Cd., 25., 2s. 6d., or 3s. 6d. per PACKET
POSTED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
Fix upon the number you require, and send along the amount you wish to spend in stamps to the address as below,
and you are sure to be pleased with the cards you will receive by return mail.
Stationers 7 Hall Co. and Book Depot
(C. E. FULLER & CO.), ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Opposite tiio Strand, 385 George-st., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post at a Newspaper.
Vol. 13— K 0.728.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 27, 1894,
Price, 6cU
w
o
-roAim^
THE ECLIPSE OE THE SOUTHERN CROSS.
STAR OF AUSTRALASIA—A NEW ORDER SUGGESTED.
“London, Jan. 16. -The Marquis of Lome read a paper at the Imperial Institute yesterday on Imperial Federation. He advocated the institution of a new
order, to be called the Star of Australasia. Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for tho Australians."
■
ntoriiiKTOßS:
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER GO., Limp*”'
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0126
Quarterly ... ... - - ... 066
not ran.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tim Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
lobe addressed to AVilliam Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable ),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that ive are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the Bntish
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:- A. A. Thompson and Co., S Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 2d.
addedfor postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid, There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 27, 1894.
The “ Star of Australasia and Canada.”
Another order of knighthood—the “ Star
of Australasia and Canada ” —is vaguely sug-
gested as an addition to the existing varieties
of “colonial” nobility. The ostensible
author of this suggestion is the Marquis of
■Lohne, Victoria’s reddish and bony son-
in-law, chiefly known to fame as the per-
petrator of a new and infamously bumpy
metrical version of the Psalms. According
to Lorne’s theory, the proposed “ honour ”
will not even profess to be given for general
merit, or for public services rendered to the
honoured one’s own province ; it is to be
baldly and undisguisedly a reward for, and
given to, the cause of Imperial Federation—
and for no other purpose. From this pro-
position it would appear that Lorne’s diplo-
macy is as rude and primitive as, and even
more bumpy than, his version of the Psalms.
His proposition gives away the royal family
badly! It proves, in the first place, that
royalty is deeply anxious that Imperial
Federation should come to pass, and that
alone is sufficient to make the democracy
regard it with even more suspicion than
heretofore. The heavy-jowlcd House of
Guelph is distinguished by such cast-iron
Toryism, and is so incurably Avodded to the
Avays of its small, podgy, despotic ancestors
of Hanover, that its approval is calculated
to blast any political project, however pro-
mising. A brighter politician than Lorne
or his brother-in-law, Wales, would there-
fore have studiously concealed his sentiments
on the subject, and not have cursed an
already feeble project with the dead Aveight
of the royal approval.
» « •
The proposed Order has other disadvantages.
As already mentioned, it is to be given for
services in the cause of Imperial Federation,
and for them only. No other single cause
has ever been propped up in such a fashion,
and this insidious distinction plainly implies
that Imperial Federation needs more violent
extraneous assistance than any other im-
perial fad of the day. It is the feeblest
and most abjectly tottersomo of the
lot, and requires to bo shored up
with an order of knighthood all to itself
in order to keep it reasonably alive.
Either that, or else the fact that even the
disreputable and ragged decoration of St.
Michael and St. George, by which thebreasts
of so many shady characters are adorned,
is supposed to be a reward for some kind of
political merit, makes it necessary to provide
a separate place of refuge for a crowd which
has no merit at all, and which cannot, with
any decency, bo put among the existent
K.O.M.G.’s lest they should be depreciated
and rendered unsaleable. Or, as a third
alternative, it may be that even the ordinary
groveller will not be an Imperial Federa-
tionist so long as there is any possibility of
getting a title by other means, and, there-
fore, it is proposed to create a dignity which
can’t be reached by any other means in order
to goad him to this outrage upon the last
semblance of his intelligence. In other
words, it may be that the Star of Aus-
tralasia and Canada is intended to be a
specially lofty honour, and the reason of its
proposed existence is that no politician cares
to be an Imperial Federationist at the
present low figure, on the ground that there
is too much obloquy for the money and that
the reward is not commensurate with the
doubts cast on his reasoning faculties.
» # #
Imperial Federation has all along been a
purely artificial enthusiasm. Nobody save the
British royal family, and Parkin, and a few
other interested parties ever viewed it in a
serious light, and the suggestion that poli-
ticians should be paid to view it in a serious
light shows distinctly that its prospects are
not improving. The scheme of the projected
“ Order ” is an eloquent commentary on the
awful stupidity which grows around a throne.
It acknowledges, in the first place, that it is
necessary to buy up the politicians of the
“colonies,” in order to induce them to lend
a hand at galvanising the old, dead idea into
new life, and it assumes, in the same breath,
that the sort of politician who can be openly
bought is likely to be of some use in the galva-
nising process. The cause is hopelessly un-
popular, and, therefore, the man who takes it
up is to receive a gewgaw as compensation for
the scoffs and the aged eggs of the con-
temptuous multitude, and the danger of
ejectment from office, and the other disad-
vantages attached to the Imperial creed. But
here the scheme degenerates into idiocy, for
the Imperial Federation enthusiast, when
once he has gained his title, will have no
inducement to expose himself to public
derision any longer, and every man who is
adorned with the Star of Australasia and
Canada will be, to all intents and purposes,
a Federationist lost. And if the bestowal
of the Order is postponed until the old age
of the recipient, so as to keep him steady in
his faith so long as possible, it will presently
be discovered that, though the knighthood
may come in the end, political extinction
comes a great deal faster. According to
Lorne’s great project, Federal enthusiasm
is to be openly a matter of business calcula-
tion, and the calculation works out very
badly either way.
Further, the scheme altogether ignores the
obvious fact that, when once the system
of paying the enthusiastic Federationist
for his enthusiasm is openly adopted, the
only hope of accomplishing Federation is
to buy up a national majority straight
away. Even if the Crown gets the
Imperial Federationist that it pays for,
which is exceedingly doubtful, the fact
that he is paid for joining the cause will
prevent him fetching any large following
along with him. Therefore, each Federa-
tionist will have to be bought separately,
with a serious risk of non-delivery of the
article when it has been bought. The
“ colonial” knight of the past was paid, as a
rule, for doing nothing ; any politician who
rose to power and used his power to keep
things as they were, and to prevent the pro-
gress of Democratic legislation, could always
hope for a “dignity ” sooner or latter. Or,
if the “dignity” was slow in coming and
seemed to have been shipped by gravel-train
or by protracted raft, he could generally
hasten its arrival by urging on Democratic
measures, and refusing to stop his wild
career without compensation. It is now
proposed, however, that two orders of
“colonial” knighthood shall exist side by
side, one of which is to be gained by doing
nothing as heretofore—by simply existing in a
public capacity, and being one’s own contemp-
tible self ; while the other, of seemingly no
greater value, is to be attained by rushing
violently down a steep place into the sea, in
the hope that the dignity may arrive before
the patient arrives with a fatal concussion at
the bottom.
# * •
This discrepancy shows that the Crown
utterly fails to realise the depth and breadth
and vastness of the public indifference to
Imperial Federation and everything con-
nected therewith. The politician who applies
himself to earning the star of the proposed
“Order” must set out resolutely to bo a
bore, a weariness, and a public nuisance.
He must talk and write with a horrid itera-
tion about a subject concerning which the
nation takes no more interest than it does in
the existence or non-existence of boot-jacks
in the moon. He must bo an agony, a
general misery, and a monomaniac, and
when he rises to speak he must be content
to see the audience rush for the door to get
away from the horror of his eloquence.
Australasia, in recent years, has only raised
one man who devoted himself to the ques-
tion with sufficient enthusiasm to qualify for
a knighthood—the awful Mortimer Frank-
lyn, who, after spending £70,000, more or
less, of other people’s money, hypothecated
his watch and went bankrupt in his efforts to
overcome the public indifference, and finally
abandoned the country in despair without
rousing one vestige of interest in the subject.
Considering the greatness of his fall, no
politician who has anything to lose or any
watch to pawn is ever likely to follow
his example with much success. When Aus-
tralasia couldn’t find food and clothing and
jewellery and garish raiment for even one
enthusiastic Imperial Federationist, the pros-
pect of it ever supporting enough to make a
decent order of knighthood is hardly worth
mentioning.
/ * * *
The Crown’s faith in knighthoods as a
means of bribery and corruption is a touch-
ing circumstance. They have done good
service as a means of inducing a few men to
block the public sentiment by means of
Parliamentary forms, but when it is pro-
posed that they should bo employed to
create a new public sentiment it is alto-
gether too large an order. It is im-
possible to distribute enough knighthoods to
buy a popular majority without making the
blessed “ decoration ” even more ridiculous
than it is at present. The system wants
inverting to make it serviceable. If “ Mr.”
were the highest dignity in the empire, and
knighthood was a degradation to be inflicted
by a police magistrate on drunks and persons
of bad character; and the various degrees
of nobility, down to the awful disgrace
of a dukedom—which would be reserved for
persons sentenced to long terras of penal
servitude—were applied in a similar fashion,
then the Crown could bring a solid influence
to bear upon the great mass of the com-
munity. For then the bulk of the nation
would already occupy the highest rank of
nobility, and if the “disloyal” section of it was
in constant danger of being degraded into the
peerage it could, be kept in a state of reason-
able submission. Failingthis something might
be done in the cause of Imperial Federation
by offering a large hunk of bread and cheese,
as a plain, satisfying inducement, to each
individual supporter. And, failing this also,
it seems as if the solitary Imperial Federa-
tionist must keep on hypothecating his watch
on behalf of a lost cause as heretofore ; and
the Imperial Federation League, which closed
up so dismally a month or two ago, must
remain closed; and the gaudy Imperial
Institute must pursue its wild career as a
nigger-minstrel show to the bitter end.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Instructive “Awakening.”
The “beautiful end ” of Mrs. Knorr, who was
hanged last week in the joyful hope of a resur-
rection, will assist to explain the meaning of
that peace —call it “ aggressive peace ” —which
the typical Hardshell finds at prayer meetings.
Most of us scoff at the smug pietist who,
living a life of chicanery and holy uncharitable-
ness, takes every available opportunity to
mention how nice he feels since he was saved.
We scoff at what we consider the blasphemous
impudence of the lank-haired creature, assum-
ing that he really knows himself for what he is,
and is eonsciously trying to impose upon irre-
ligious humanity. In truth, he is generally im-
posing upon himself. The converted grocer,
who sandeth his sugar and never breaketh
bread until he hath asked a blessing upon it,
belongs to the evangelical world of self-
deception. A fraudulent sense of comfort, a
warm, though utterly bogus, feeling of “grace”
pervades the inner consciousness of the snuffling
saint, and, to all earthly intents and purposes,
he enjoys “ the peace of God which passeth
all understanding.” This gift of self-
deception seems to be confined to beings of the
lower order of intellect, and constitutional
tricksters. No brainy person, educated to a
regard for any good principles, can overcome
conscience. He or she may arrange terms with
conscience, and feel tolerably easy in the thought
that the debt of sin may be ultimately squared
by a farthing in the £ composition, but the
complacency of the grocer can never grease the
countenance of an intelligent thinker. Nor is
the genuine oil of imaginary salvation to be
seen upon the faces of Jabez Balfour and ten
thousand other bold financial swindlers who
merely pretend to snuffle, being too crafty to
get hoodwinked by themselves. These be the
confessed hypocrites, the Dr. Cantwells of
chapelism, and to class them with their
admiring Maw worms is to libel both parties.
Between the vile wretch who quotes Scrip-
ture with his tongue in his cheek, and the
objectionable insect who registers himself
as a “child of Christ” (on the strength
of a certain “ awakening ” which was the hol-
lowest mental delusion) there is a difference
uhpcrceived by casual observers. Mrs. Knorr,
the murderess, is a light to lighten this dark
distinction. Her demise is an object-lesson in
the art of manufacturing the spurious Peace of
God that docs duty for salvation in snuffle
circles. A few hours of “ spiritual ” converse
and hymn-singing with a gaol-chaplain were
sufficient to persuade this pitiless baby-slayer
that she had found grace, in proof of which
pleasing conviction she died “as game as a
pebble,” after twanging forth an abominably
maudlin ditty, expressive of her everlasting
safety. If the Peace of God —a noble term,
never lightly used by a non-church-goer—
inspired Mrs. Knorr to sing Sankey’s hymn,
then It would indeed be past all understanding.
What the cold-hearted profligate did find in
her dungeon-cell was the peace of the grocer,
the grace of Mawworm, the vulgar counterfeit
“comfort” that, being constantly hawked
about as a Heavenly attribute, makes sinners
look with suspicion upon their own too rare
consciousness of having done a good action, and
fills them with a horrid dread of feeling all the
better for it.
Farkes on the “Constitution."
N.S.W. Minister Slattery’s letter in last Mon-
day’s Sydney Telegraph is another lament-
able specimen of the kind of thing which always
will keep happening to dear old Farkes. That
aged beguiler has been complaining with a loud
and fearsome shriek of the conduct of the Dibbs
Cabinet in holding office with a majority of only
one—not counting the Speaker, and has
heaved all the Billingsgate in his dictionary
at G. Republican Dibbs in consequence.
Also, the old man objects to Dibbs’
“ haction ” in previously getting a prorogation
in the face of a hostile vote. And now
Slattery, in his own beastly, unpleasant
fashion, points out that Mr. Henry Farkes, in
1866, didn’t resign on two occasions when the
Ministry hadn’t even a fair majority of one, and
was saved only by the Speaker’s casting vote ;
that he kept on holding office after two
decisive defeats; and that in 1868 he
was saved again by the Speaker’s cast-
ing vote, and grabbed his billet all
the same. Then, in 1874, Premier Farkes,
being defeated on a motion of censure by one vote
prorogued Parliament just as Dibbs did last
year, and held on to Ids portfolio like a drown-
ing man grasping at a cheque. Next session
another vole of censure was defeated only by
the casting vote of the Speaker, and Farkes
prorogued Parliament again and held on to his
job with his teeth as heretofore. Then, being
defeated yet again, he resigned, and almost im-
mediately afterwards he had the brassy insol-
ence to move that John Robertson’s con-
duct, in not resigning after a defeat, was
“subversive to the principles of the Constitoo-
shun.” A month later ParkEst^jwas in office
again, and a Vote of censure being moved, was
once more saved by one vote—and didn’t resign,
as usual. And two months further on the same
hungry howler was defeated by two votes and
declined to take any notice of the circumstance,
whereupon he was defeated again by six votes
and still didn’t budge until he failed to obtain
a dissolution and was unable to get supply,
when he reluctantly crawled down. This sort
of thing is painful reading, and will probably
cause Farkes to rise at his next meeting and
state, in his little squeaky voice, that Slattery
is a loathsome tarantula, or something equally
bright and irrelevant.
Copeland’s Downfall.
The Bulletin is glad to hear that in the
opinion of the great bulk of the N.S.W.
Labour-party, the episode which led to the
formal resignation of N.S.W. Lands-Minister
Copeland reflects little glory upon the sawn-
off Cold Teg, apostle who brought the trouble
about. Conceymiig Copeland’s foolishness
there is, of course, no manner of doubt. Years
ago he got a solemn warning against too much
hilariousness and flow of soul, when, late one
night, at a public dinner following a day’s severe
outing, a mean little pressman~took down a
particularly enthusiastic speech of his verbatim,
with the loose enthusiasm inserted at full
length, and a particularly mean party-paper
cold-bloodedly printed it in all its incoherency
for purely party purposes. The effect of the
warning, however, seems to have evaporated,
and Copeland this time, as much under the
influence of rage as of soda-water, has, in a
measure, repeated the offence. However, the
shaft aimed at him has not only failed to kill its
intended victim but has actually boomeranged
on to the thrower. Between the bluff, big-
hearted, full-blooded, obstinate pioneer miner,
and the little, virtuous bagman who got away
by the side-door while his waiting enemy raged
around the front entrance, the manly portion of
the public has been quick to judge. Copeland
is going to live politically because the public
somehow revolts from the spectacle of a brainy
veteran with a long, clean record and a 50-inch
chest, being executed by a pallid draper’s
drummer who has yet to make a solid reputation
in any other line than (say) ladies’ underclothing
as 465. lid. per gross. In the public mind, the
draper belongs to the same sex as the curate,
and the man who lifts his hand in anger to a
draper is unworthy of the name he bears. The
fact that Copeland did attempt to lay violent
hands on his softgoods antagonist is the most
melancholy feature in the case, bub doubtless
Thou Shalt not Bow to the Ancient Lie.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
If faith thou lack bend not thy back, bow not
thy head to the holy hymn,
Although it swell as a golden bell and die in the
vaulted distance dim;
Take not the tale of a priestling pale for the
god-like Truth that is throned on high,
With head unbowed in the cringing crowd,
thou shall not bend to the Sacred Lie.
And if thou love, all else above, the peerless
pearl of the People’s Cause,
Thou wilt despise each paltry prize and brave
the ban of the leprous laws,;
1 hough the base-born brood of Power and Pelf
in princely chariots pass thee by,
With head unbowed in the cringing crowd thou
shall not bend to the Gilded Lie.
If thou be free as a man should be—if hate thou
bear to the tyrant band,
Reject each gaud, each gilded fraud, each
bauble gag in the royal hand ;
For the breath of a king is a blighting blast—
it blows, and the flowers of Freedom die,
With head unbowed in the cringing crowd thou
shall not bend to the Kingly Lie.
Thinkest thou the dead whose hero-bed is oft
bedewed with a nation’s tears
Inscribed their name on the Roll of Fame by a
life that limped through a lane of fears ?
Nay ! Nay ! With a fearless front and free
with a noble.fire in the flashing eye,
They never bowed with the cringing crowd—■
they never bent to the Ancient Lie.
Queensland.
P. LUFTIG.


ò
A rumour that the Patterson Government
intended to pitchfork Tom Bent into the chair"
manship of Vic. Railways had some founda"
tion in fact, and may be a possible job even now
The idea of such an appointment is outrageous
enough from a national point of view, but
a country which elects the modern Victorian
Parliament, and a press that abases itself at the
boots of Patterson, have no claim to take a
national view of anything. The Bulletin
would rejoice in the spectacle of Bent waving
the banner of “Reform, Retrenchment, and
High Commercial Principle” at the railways,
but for the impossibility of retaining him as
Speaker at the same time. Speaker Bent is a
most desirable institution for reasons not
generally appreciated. Bent, as Speaker and
Railway Chairman combined, might prove the
salvation of Victoria by causing the body
politic to wake up suddenly and vomit. Until
Victoria has vomited it will remain in a bad
way.
♦
The result of the by-election at Townsville
(N.Q.), though anticipated, is significant. It
emphasises that general hostility of North
Queensland to the existing Government which
was a leading feature at last year’s general
election. The contest took place on a definite
issue between two candidates only. Ogden,
the Labour representative defeated at the
previous election, had in his favour en-
thusiasm -and good organisation. Will-
mett, the Ministerialist, though his sup-
porters were divided by petty jealousies,
commanded greater esteem as an old
and respectable resident, who had done
much for the Separation cause which both
candidates supported. The struggle was thus
fairly equal, and the fact that, under such cir-
cumstances, Ogden should obtain the substan-
tial majority of 184, clearly shows that, ably
led and discreetly counselled, the Democratic
party in North Queensland may carry all before
them ; for Townsville is by no means so Radical
as the inland mining centres.
Dear Bulletin, —This morning, in London,
the thermometer was 28°, and of course the
frost was big. To keep myself warm I went
to the Imperial Institute —and found a bigger
frost l —about 2°, I should think. New South
Wales is represented by a portrait in oils of
Palinurus Hegellii. At first I thought it was
George Republican D. boiled down, but
closer inspection revealed a Port Jack-
son crawfish! flanked by six bottles of
red - mullet oil from Port Jackson, and
six bottles of full-bodied, 36 0.p., Muscat
from down Albury way. The crawfish smiles
down on Sir Somers Vine’s visitors and
intimates in the volapuk of the crustacean that
he has the honour, &c., of representing Sydney
Harbour, one of the brightest gems in the
British Crown. (Cheers.) What a farce ! The
industries of New South Wales are represented
by a miserable collection of rubbish which
would disgrace the saloon of the Presbyterian
Church South Sea mission schooner ! Who is
responsible ? P.S.—The Imperial Institute has
nearly cost £500,000 now, and is empty.
A Victorian correspondent to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin,— lie the evergreen question of Bible
literature in State schools, it is pretty certain that if this
Branch of learning is entirely excluded from the curricu-
lum, the gap will not he filled up in after life. At best,
there is not even a negative bliss in such ignorance, and
I’ll just give you an instance of what may happen to any
little isolated community whose Bible is “a disreputable
foreign paper with a red cover.” During the wretched
iuiumu of ’B2 I was loafing for currajong on one of the
largest stations in Upper Riverina. One day, going
icross to the homestead, I met a narangy in the horse-
paddock. “ I say, Collins,” he broke out; “ who were
the daughters of Moab ? ” “ New sell ?” I asked, know-
ing my man. "No ; honour bright; I’d give a note, if I
had it, to find out.” Having been brought up at the feet of
Gamaliel, I was able to satisfy the young fellow. Near
the siockyard a rouseabout intercepted me; “ Boss wants
you, Collins ; he’s in the store. But, I say, do you know
who the deuce the daughters of Moab was ? ” I
supplied the information, and hastened to the
store: “Good day, Collins. Able to keep your frames
alive ? By the way, do you know who the daughters of
Moab were, and how they distinguished themselves?” I
satisfied the manager’s thirst for knowledge, and passed
on. The blacksmith waylaid me at the forge: "Just
the man I wanted to see! Do you know who,” &c., &c.
Again I narrated the incident of Baal-Peor, and, musing
on the touch of ignorance which made the whole station
kin, went to the hut to get a drink of tea and a bit of
brownie. “Good shot!” said the cook, as I entered.
“I been watchin’ for you this fortnit. Do you know
who,” &c., &o. Once more I paiaphrased into the
extremely vulgar tongue that xxv. chapter of Numbers ;
then the cook enlightened me as to the cause of this new-
born interest in sacred lore -placing a few consecutive
copies of a Sydney paper before me to explain his
explanation. The first paper reported a bazaar
held in aid of one of the Sydney churches; and
the correspondence columns contained a letter from
a clergyman of the same church, wherein
the rev. gent. anticipating and out - Sledding
Stead— coolly stigmatised the bazaar-attendants as
" daughters of Moab.” As might be expected, the cor-
respondence columns of the following issue overflowed
with angry protest from the fathers, brothers and friends
of the bazaar gills. The next issue, again, contained a
sullen semi-apology from the unclean saint, whose cloth,
it appeared, had failed to protect him from threats of
personal violence. “Naturally,” continued the cook,
“ we was in a devil of a state to find out who these parties
was; and we hadn’t a ghost of a Bible on the station.
They got one on Wircheliba, but the Somersets won’t
lend it, and they can’t find the place themselves.” This
is merely to show that the Bible is not the secret of
Riverina's greatness. Indeed, a friend of mine—a
boundary man named soihething like Angus M'Piierson
attributes the deficiency of rainfall throughout Riverina
to the neglect of Scripture in that region, and proves his
contention by quoting Scotland as a contrast. Be this as
it may, there is no doubt that the healthy recoil from
priestcraft is carrying us too far. The Bible-hater is no
less irrational than the Bible-faddist. The O.T. ia the
most interesting, instructive, and authentic section of
ancient history within the range of literature, and an in-
exhaustible mine of fearless philosophy and sublime fore-
cast. The N.T., rightly read, will be the text-book of
ideal Socialism when its professional perverter is more
extinct and less regretted than the Tasmanian black-
fellow. In the interests of moral progress, the Bible must
be read ; and in the interests of honest interpretation,
the parson must go.— Tom Collins. /
A member of N.S.W. Labour-party in Parlia-
ment :
Our troubles arise from- ‘he fact that the central com-
mittee of the electoral league is, and has been, “ bossed ”
by men who are more occupied in attempting to gain
seats in Parliament for themselves than in honest endea-
vour to swell the ranks of the party in the House. Every
one of these men, to my mind, is incapacitated for office
on that committee by the mere fact that they are candi-
dates. Their unfitness to run such a concern has been
otherwise shown times without number. For instance,
when they voted themselves on to the league conference by
virtue of their office. Further, 1 may say that they have
shamefully abused their trust by keeping no books and
furnishing no balance-sheet until forced by an accession of
new blood. Throughout they worked, not to break fresh
ground and win new seats, but to discredit and under-
mine the pioneer members of the party, without excep-
tion, in order to take their places. The treatment of Mr.
G. D. Clark at Leichhardt is a case in point.
That member is right in the main. No man
can be a competent judge in his own cause ;
and no man who is a central committeeman of
any electoral organisation should himself be a
candidate, secretly or openly, for Parliament.
No man should be elected to such a committee
who doesn’t bind himself to abstain from Par-
liamentary candidature for (say) a year or two
after ceasing to be a committeeman.
The latest oration of Miss Jessie Ackerman,
the returned social-purity priestess, conclu-
sively shows that her travels have not improved
her intellect. This lady is a good type of the
excellent people who are continually trying to
put a quart into a pint-pot. She thoroughly
believes in making the world moral by Act of
Parliament. Her panacea is, in the first place,
legislation, and, in the second place, legislation,
and, in the third place, legislation. She is
convinced that the abolition of the social evil,
of the drink traffic, and of crime in general is
only a matter of placing so many laws, in so
many chapters, and so many clauses, upon the
statute-book. No argument will persuade
the Miss Ackermans of the world that a
stream cannot rise higher than its source;
or that, if the laws of the community prescribe
a standard of virtue above the common practice
of the community, those laws are so much waste
paper. The appeal to history is wasted. They
cannot realise that a change in the people must
precede a change in the mode of government,
if the latter is to be effectual; they have not
the least idea that reform, to be permanent,
must begin at the bottom and not at the top.
Doubtless Miss Ackerman means well ; but it
is a pity she does not know a little better,
A Melbourne daily says : “ Of all the applica-
tions received for the position of hangman, the
most painful was that of a man who had been
an officer in the Imperial Army, and whose
father before him had been an eminent soldier.”
Why was this case a whit more distressing than
any other ? Impecunious ex-officers are to be
found in thousands, loafing, sponging, swind-
ling, and generally giving themselves prepos-
terous airs. Asa body they are the most
useless creatures on God’s earth. It is a
slightly redeeming feature about the trained
man-killer under discussion that he would like
to get the hangman’s job. He is ready to earn
his own living. He has been bred and educated
to regard human slaughter as an excellent Tory
institution, and the eminent warrior, his papa,
doubtless taught him to lament the abolition
of wholesale hanging and flogging in the army
he adorned. Asa matter of fact, this person’s
application was the least unnatural, and there-
fore the most excusable, of any that came to
hand, and The Bulletin herewith calls upon
Premier Patterson to give the gallant colonel
a trial. Let him have the higher-class hang-
ings, at any rate, and then the dom’d cwiminal
of taste will be able to say that he fell like a
soldier, at the hands of an officer and gentle-
man, haw 1
*
The law, as represented at Melbourne City
Police Court, is making a specially asinine
attempt to reform a damsel named Kiley.
This unfortunate wretch was originally cap-
tured from a Chinese den and made into a
“ ward of the State,” that is to say, the State
gave the police a general order to keep on
capturing Kiley as often as they thought fit.
The Harmy took her in hand soon after this,
but the Ward’s taste for prayer was blunted,
and one day she slunk silently away in her
poke bonnet and married a Chinaman, Mrs.
Kiley, her mamma, being present at the
solemn rites. Then the Harmy matron, hearing
that the new-made bride was “ living under
most abandoned conditions,” persuaded the
police to drag her from her lawful Chow, and
bring her up before the Court. The Court
sentenced her to rejoin the Harmy. At latest
dates this young married woman was being
conveyed back to “barracks,” or somewhere,
in a cab. She was tugging violently at two
constables and protesting that she preferred
prison to Salvation, but the State heeded not
her cries or kicks. It goes without saying that
the abandoned angel will presently regain her
freedom and go back like the prodigal to the
home of her opium-eater to resume domestic
duties, whereupon the Harmy and the State will
take measures as before. Meanwhile, there
seems to be a screw loose in the State s
authority for kidnapping Mrs. Chung
Lung, nee Kiley. She is treated as a
domestic criminal, whilst her loving husband,
the partner of her abandonment, is simply
ignored in the matter. The fact that the Law
doesn’t arrest the Chow is presumptive evidence
that it has no right to annex the wife. Further-
more, the absurdity of placing a girl against
her will with people who can’t legally detain
her, is as apparent as the certainty that Chung
Lung is entitled to come along with his mam-
age-certificate and sue the Government for
depriving him of nuptial bliss.
Premier Patterson’s speech on Capital and
Labour, at South Melbourne, was a pitiful
exhibition. Interlarded with scriptural quota-
tions and slangy proverbs, the whole drivel
amounted to a declaration that, as Capital and
Labour were indispensable to each other, any
friction between employers and employed
meant ruin and desolation. This old wheeze,
coming from an assumedly intelligent person,
gave a fearful shock to the audience. r l hat
Patterson can’t see that Capital and Labour
are synonymous terms, and that it is Capitalism
which the world is sick of, and that money is
merely a form of wealth which artificial
arrangements have substituted for Capital, is
painfully evident by his lamentations over the
present dearth of cash in Victoria. Capital is
the active principle of any industrial process,
and when it (i.e., labour and machinery)' is
utilised for anti-social purposes, such as ex-
hausting the national energy by entertaining
royalty so that a few individuals may receive
special advantages therefrom, the less said
about the relationship of Capital to Labour by
any axe-grinding meat-men the better.
Despite the shyness of capitalists, the Q.
Government is doing its best to press forward
the construction of land-grant railways on the
iniquitous terms agreed to by the last corrupt
Parliament; and emissary Hume Black, who
sacrificed a number of first class convictions for
his travelling political scholarship of £IOOO a
year, is talking oa the subject to all in Britain
who will listen. If he talks long enough and
strong enough, and M‘llwraith is able to
collect coolies enough, there is no reason why
Queensland should not regret a land-grant
railway just as forcibly as West Australia
regrets hers at the present moment. Certainly,
the Queensland offer is most tempting. You
are paid in land for building the line, you run
it as long as it suits you, and then you hand it
to the Government and get paid over again in
cash. And, as there are no mining reservations,
there is the chance of a Broken Hill or a Mount
Morgan thrown in.
—_—
Dr. Paton, the Presbyterian missionary, has
been telling the British Secretary of State that
the Queensland Kanaka lives in “ scarcely dis-
guised slavery.” The mission Kanaka generally
lives in undisguised slavery, spending his life
in hewing wood and drawing water for a pack
of greasy professional saints, while an elaborate
system of fines punishes failure to attend
church, or to repeat the Ten Commandments
when called upon, or to pick out the best
cocoanuts to give to God. On the majority of
Queensland plantations the Kanaka is quite
as well off as he is under the thumb of the
missionary on his native island. The Kanaka
is offensive, not because he is badly treated, for
that isn’t always so; but because his employer’s
greed uses him as a tool to turn Australia into
a cheap, black man’s country, instead of a home
for decently-living]white men.
♦-
How New South Wales Government helps the
people to settle on the land ! A little while
ago, the lease of 60,000 acres of good agricul-
tural land, at Yalgogrin, was offered by
auction. In selling such an enormous mass of
territory in one lump all the small agricul-
turalists, and nine-tenths of the large ones,
were practically shut out. Asa natural con-
sequence only four buyers turned up, and
ultimately Robert Barbour, M.L.A., got a
20 years lease at £64 a year —about four
acres for one penny per annum. Now, it
would appear, the same Mr. Barbour is
offering the land in 640-acre lots at almost
100 times what he pays for it himself.
If this little scheme succeeds, therefore,
the State gets less than per cent, of the
rent paid by the agriculturist, and Barbour,
the middleman, get per cent. And it
almost certainly will succeed, for Barbour,
M.L.A., is a man who makes few mis-
takes in this class of business, and his
name is dotted all over the map of many a
parish, with the persistency of the inveterate
land-jobber. Therefore, what the country
wants to know is why the State couldn’t sub-
divide the land itself, instead of depending on
Mr. Barbour to act as middleman and scoop
98J per cent out of the profits?
Dr. Byrne, of Brisbane, the well-known
musical medico, bought a Bulletin at Melbourne
wharf the other day, and found that the boy had
foisted a two-year-old copy upon him. Somebody
will presently bo getting into trouble over this
impudent swindle.
Parkes has been getting (and, of course,
publishing in the dailies) another letter from
Hingland. It is from his ancient friend, G. J.
Holyoake, with whom he regularly swaps grease,
and who speaks of Parkes’ late volumes, “Fifty
Years of Australian History,” in these words :
“ They form a monumental record, amazing in
their variety and interest. They endow Australia
with new fortune in the eye of mankind.”
Tremendous ! The saliva-choppings of these
hoary egotists make the world smile.
Harold Stephen, novelist, journalist, play-
right and politician, himself always impecunious,
often lectured his father Milner, when the latter,
fallen also into impecuniosity, would persist in
living by his red flannel. “Go back to the Bar;
go back to some official position,” Harold would
say. “ There are 20 positions within your reach,
and all you have to do is to put out your hand for
the emoluments.” “My dear boy,” the father
would say, tenderly nursing a square of flannel,
“you know nothing about a vocation, a divine
mission. Lend me five shillings.”
A William Pearce Richards writer to the
Argus, explaining that “ certain injurious phases
of democracy have conspired to increase indiffer-
ence as to correct pronunciation and elegant dic-
tion.” The “Vicar of Bray” was a phase of
democracy. “ I have ceased tojspeak in rounded
periods,” said the curate, “and am convinced
that a strictly grammatical existence is not worth
living.”
What shocked Sydney Daily Telegraph
most about the scene in Assembly was
evidently the fact that Minister Copeland, daring
his fit of hyperaesthesia, wore a white coat and no
vest: —
The scene was an extremily painful one, Here was a
Minister of the Crown, dressed in a short white coat,
without a vest, hatless, and with his collar and tie in
disoider.
And again :
Mr. Copeland was rather peculiarly dressed for the
Assembly, appearing in a short duck coat, and without a
vest.
There ia something that is evidently in-
tended for pathos in the cable story of the last
moments of Captain Wilson’s contingent—the
famous 40 men who were wiped out in a desperate
attempt to capture the fallen Lobengula, “When
the Matabele made their final rush upon the
survivors of the party, they were found to be
alternately using their revolvers and writing
letters of farewell to their relatives.” The man
who writes farewell letters to his relatives
with one hand while he shoots with the other,
and does it amid the dust and frenzy of
a battle fought at close quarters, looks interesting,
no doubt, but he is just as impossible as the
slogger who writes to his sick child with one huge
fist while he bangs his six-foot antagonist with
the other, and yet doesn’t spill the ink in the
melee. This sort of muddy pathos, however,
helps to fill J. Bull with a vague sense of injury,
and a yearning for revenge upon the “savages”
who slaughtered his brethren in the midst of their
literary exertions. The bald fact that the man
who charges a retreating enemy with an unfinished
letter to his aged mother in his hand has to take
his chance like any other man, gets entirely over-
looked in the excitement.
Premier Patterson’s Prayer.
(Written for him after his address at the Presbyterian
Church, South Melboui ne.)
’Tis true the wealthy richer grow,
Whilst poor are waxing “ strfler ;
Their interests on earth below
Invariably differ.
But teach us. Lord, to keep the peace,
Likewise to love our neighbour ;
Let Fat man wallow in his grease,
And I will butter Labour.
The worker lean has work to sell;
Kind Capital can buy it.
Thou seest, Lord, that all is well,
Though Democrats deny it.
If Labour takes the lowest price,
Then virtue’s its rewarder.
Thy servant Patterson’s advice
I s _“ Stick to Lawan’order.”
We know our duty is to love,
And cheerfully to sutler ;
The hand enveloped in a glove
Should grip the paw that’s tougher.
An aged hat will warm the head,
Although it be not nappy ;
And no man needs a springy bed
As long as he is happy.
Grant wisdom, Lord, to simple toil.
Make angry strikers better ;
Preserve the owners of the soil,
And purify the sweater.
I see in Wrong oppressing Right
The golden rule of Mammon ;
But darkness giveth place to light
Before the Lamp of Gammon.
Ponce de Leon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By a black wharf I stood lately,
When the night was at its noon ;
Keen, malicious stars were shining,
And a wicked, white-faced moon.
And I saw a stately vessel,
Built in fashion quaint and old ;
From her masthead, in the moonlight,
Hung a flag of faded gold.
Black with age her masts and spars were,
Black with age her ropes and rails ;
Like a ghost through cere-clothes gazing
Shone the white moon through her sails
Not a movement stirred the stillness,
Not a sound the silence broke,
Save alone the livid water
Lapping round her sides of oak.
Then to her unseen commander
Spake I, as to one I knew
“ Don Juan Ponc6 de L6on,
I have waited long for you.
“ Take me with you, I implore you!
Take me with you on your Quest
For the Fount of Youth Eternal,
For the Islands of the Blest,”
Then, above the bulwarks black, I
Saw a spectral head arise ;
And the moon with ghastly glimmer
Lit its sad and hollow eyes ;
And a voice came from it, speaking
Low, in tones the heart to reach.
Very sweet and melancholy—
The grand old Castilian speech.
“ Grieved am I, senor, and sorry
Greatly,” were the words it said,
“ That I may not take you with me—
But I only take the Dead.
“ These alone may dare the voyage,
These alone sail on the quest.
For the Fount of Youth Eternal,
For the Islands of the Blest.”
VICTOR J. DALEY.
A Vilanelle.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
This is the need of the world as it swings
(Never a day was there need of it more) —
Songs that will teach us the falsehood of things:
Singers to thunder at thronings of kings,
“ What of the hungry and what of the sore?”
This is the need of the world as it swings :
Thunder as thunders the surf as it rings
Down on the dip of a desolate shore,
Songs that will teach us the falsehood of things:
Flashings of thoughts that have truth for their
wings,
Voicings of doubts that were voiceless
before—
This is the need of the world as it swings.
This is the need of the world as it flings
Forth from the clouds that engulfed it of
yore—
Songs that will teach us the falsehood of things.
Songs that will cut, through the glamour that
clings,
Into the truth of the innermost core ;
This is the need of the world as it swings.
Queensland.
FRANCK K.


Good Smokes Tor our Itnek'Rloeks Friends at
CITY PRICES!
STAMPS or P. 0.0, to any amount taken.
Box of (IOO) CIGARS, Regulia Bouquet .. .. 20/-
Box of (100) CIGARS, Indian 17 6
Box of (50) CIGARS, fine C.G. Manilla .. .. !«/-
Box of (100) CIGARS, Alonzo Menez Ilahana .. 30/-
Carriage paid to any part of Australasian colonies.
M. an if 11. WOOLF & CO., C Iff nr Merchants,
326 Gborob Strket, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A. Groocl and Cb.eap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
ò
Manufactured by
J. FROSBARD & CO.,
PAVEKNe; (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “True as Steel."
Ceitbhion “Charley’s Aunt.”
Theatre Royal “The Cannon’s Mouth.”
Lyceum “ Beauty and the Beast."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “ Little Red Riding Hoed..’“
Theatre Royal “Sinhad the Sailor.”
Alexandra Barry’s Dramatic Co.
Abhambra Variety Co.
“ Beauty and the Beast,” at Sydney
Lyceum, entered on its final fortnight last Satur-
day, but time has not tarnished its glittering glare*
—neither have the chorus-girls run short of paint.
If the rouge began to be precious at the end of the*
panto., or if the coal-dust that does duty for eye-
brows and lashes among the figurantes has to be*
toned down to 8.8. peneillings owing to the
supply giving out, the last stage of beauty might
be pleasanter than the first. But, as it is, the*
production is dying apparently of scenic apoplexy
with strawberry cheeks and undimmed draperies,,
and the person who hoped that time would tone*
down the chromotrope is doomed to disappoint-
ment.
• • •
A bright spot in the final fortnight is the
latest London craze, “ Linger Longer Lucy,” sung
by Nellie Stewart, with Florence Young lending
a voice here and there. “ Linger Longer Loo ” is.
a catchy chorus tied on to trashy verses, detailing
the well-worn fact that love laughs at locksmiths,,
of which you scarcely pick up the air ; but the
refrain, though idiotic, is alliteratively attractive,,
and ought to be a street nuisance in no time. As
a sentence for suspicious woman to store up in her
brain and make hubby pronounce it on lodge-
n ghts, “Linger Longer Loo” is unrivalled.
Neither Miss Nellie Stewart nor Miss Florence
Young had got the words properly under her
tongue on Saturday night, but a treble encore
followed the song and dance, which is propping
the panto, in its sere and yellow leaf. At the end
of “ Beauty,” Nellie Stewart takes a spell in the
Blue Mountains, previous to opening at Melb.
Princess’ in “Dorothy.”
** » *
The show at Sydney Opera House leads a
blameless existence as before in the presence of a
medium-sized audience. It is evident by this
time that the co. is not going to make any striking
success, the curse of the establishment being
against it; but at the same time it is not going to
fall with quite so hollow a thud as most of its pre-
decessors. This week’s programme consists of the
“Bohemian Girl,” an honourable, middle-aged
opera which has never done anything to awake
the suspicions of the police. The co. tackles this
production in a cordial spirit, and makes the old,
old story of the Czech maiden, who was stolen
from her father’s baronial pile, seem as new as
possible. Miss Colborne-Baber’s Arline takes
most of the honours ; she is in good voice, and the
ancient melody, “ I dreamt that I dwelt in marble
halls,” sounds better than it has done for several
years past. Edward Farley, whose Devilshoof
used to be a man of might, now plays the Count a
trifle stiffly, though he sings him with all his old
brilliance. As for Devilshoof, he has fallen into
the hands of a depressing person who need not be
farther mentioned. Jules Simonsen has given up
acting altogether, but he stands in a sternly verti-
cil attitude like a man who has had an unplea-
smtneSs with his joints, and sings “The Fair
Land of Poland ” for all it is worth, and with
much enthusiasm upon the top notes. That over-
rated song, by the way, isn’t, and never was,
worth very much. The orchestra, fortunately,
isn’t so vertical as Mr. Simonsen, and The
Bulletin hereby gives that orchestra its blessing,
as one of the best of its size this paper has met
with since the last time that Parkes conducted him-
self like a perfect gentleman. In fact, if it weren’t
for Mr. Jules Simonsen, to whom we recur with
reluctance, the show would be not so very far
from perfection. And if that gentleman would
infuse into Thaddeus a little more of the quality
that a man gets up off a hot stove with, it would
be a lot nearer perfection than it is. The “Grand
Duchess ” follows.
*m * »
The farther recurrence of “ Charley’s
Aunt,” at Sydney Criterion, steadily increases
The Bulletin’s wonderment at the utter common-
place of Thornton and Arnold’s carefully im-
ported actors. Thanks to the brilliance of Frank
Thornton, who infuses fresh blasts of humour into
the Brazilian widow almost every night, these
persons don’t seriously injure the comedy,
but still, when one considers the dead level
of their mediocrity, it is awful to remember
that they came from the other end of the
world to be so utterly ordinary and to
present so unvarying a resemblance to any-
body else. The Bulletin has for some time
back restrained itself with difficulty from saying
something unkind about these persons, and has
concealed its surprise at their existence with con-
siderable difficulty. When it sees them a few
times more, however, it is just possible that it
will oast off all restraint and use actionable
language towards three of them, anyhow.
** * »
Her Majqsty’s pantomime, “Jack the
Giant Killer,” will flicker out next Friday,
and then the era of the large, robust drama in a
great number of acts will return once more. A
vast, hunky production called “True as Steel”
inaugurates tha new season, and George Rignold
once more takes the exact centre of the stage with
the limelight turned on him, and a fixed resolution
to clear his character from unjust suspicion.
** * *
“The Cannon’s Mouth,” an entirely new
devastation in four acts, will riot on the stage at
Sydney Royal next Friday, thei’efore Jagon will
strangle his victim on Thursday for the very last
time.
** * *
Xmas lingers yet in Melbourne show-
businesa, and the ghost walks at four theatres
with varying strides. The Royal panto, presents
few changes in its “second edition.” Maggie
Moore has a new coster song, which she interprets
in her best pathetic style, but seeing that the ditty
deals for the most part with a dead baby, it is,
perhaps, a little too topical. Such recent events
as the hanging of Mrs. Knorr, and the suicide of
the gentleman first appointed to do that fell deed,
are recalled to mind, and the vision of a prison
“bath full of blood” obtrudes itself upon the
imagination. Also, dim recollections of policemen
digging for babies with large, official shovels are
revived in all their original awfulness. So the house
grows very hushed when Maggie Moore wipes the
corner of her eye, and the encore is for the artist
rather than for her song of death. Fred Garnet, the
quaint little acrobat clown is an added feature at
the Royal, where spectacular effects are con-
ducted with regard to economy, and both ends are
glad to meet on a purely commercial basis.
** * &
Caicedo, the bounding wonder of the wire,
went through a form of nearly losing his balance,
the other night, since when public interest in the
little South American Spaniard has made another
spurt. The thin edge of jocularity has managed
to get into that cumbersome sports procession at
the Princess’s. Possibilities of harmless merri-
ment are suggested by a mariner’s telescope
(15ft. high) and a gigantic breechloader (with
revolvers for arms) who single themselves
out from the dull crowd and strike up a weird
flirtation. An animated fishing-float bobs around,
too, at the same time, and maybe one of the
cricket-pads, or horseshoes, or sets of pyramid-
balls in a triangle, contains a youthful panto-
mimist who would gladly be funny if put in the
right way. These remarks apply also to the dolls’
procession, A large, undraped doll, with a ghastly
head on it, begins to play the fool in an intelligent
manner. For the rest of the pantomime, it is
much the same as usual, and cash returns are on
the old bloated scale. A very agile and brisk
harlequinade contributes its fair quota to the
general prosperity.
** * *
“ True Metal ” meets all requirements
the Alexandra. They have got the mule unde r
better control, and the nightly rescue of the rag-
and-bone boy from a blazing cellar is carried out
with a wealth of fiery detail that delights the
gallery. The bones have lost none of their ancient
smell, and the desperate struggle for twopence
between a gin-soddened husband and his hungry
old ’ooman increases in violence every evening.
This is indeed a great drama of its class, although
its class is that of the penny narrative which
makes strong men shudder. “True Metal” is
likely to be superseded by another of Dan Barry’s
earthquakes on Saturday.
»* » *
At Melbourne Alhambra a new item i s
Oloriz, a rope climber and monkey-actor, said to
be identical with one Pongo, who appeared at the
Princess’s recently, His feats are chiefly notable
for taking place close to the roof in an atmosphere
that must be very trying, anyhow. Exhibition
concerns continue to move with the times. Next
Saturday, afternoon and evening, the musical
performance becomes merged in the A.N. A. Fete,
and on two moonlit nights of this week the Ex-
hibition company were to embark in the Hygeia,
and sing to floating audiences at half-a-crown per
head. The Cyoloramas are specially recommended
as retreats from outside weather. Also, the
Bijou Theatre is a cool, shady place, having been
To Let since Xmas.
** * *
Showman Frank Clark didn’t cut such a
very poor figure in that maintenance case, after
all said and done. His letter to the girl, which
the papers printed with such gusto, was a
very kindly one; also, it transpired that he paid
a respectable official visit to the patient, when he
insisted upon dandling the baby and “seemed very
pleased at the idea of being a father.” Let us hope
that Clark didn’t hurt the infant’s back, or any-
thing, in his fresh, young enthusiasm. Up to
then, one imagines, his experience of nursing had
been limited to rag babies in Irish farces. He
would find a difficulty in curbing his professional
inclination to start a chorus and beat time with
his first-born.
At Poverty Point.
Miss Ada Crossley, Australia’s great native-born con-
tralto, departs for England by the Britannia on March 14.
Ere leaving she will give farewell concerts at Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide.
The expectation that the comedian and the ballet-girl
and the baby would come on, and do a “ turn,” led to a
crowded house on the night after the settlement of that
Melb. maintenance ease.
Frances Saville has joined the Carl Rosa Co., and has
made a great hit in Scotland. They fairly rave about her
in Glasgow, where she appeared as Marguerite in
“ Faust.” The Northern critics are moat enthusiastic
about her singing.
Much interest is still felt in London re Mr. Fenwick,
who lately married Sylvia Grey. Australians say he is
American, and the Yankees return the compliment.
Wherever he was “raised,” he is a splendid rider to
hounds. His horses, too, are excellent, and he is tall,
good-looking, and agreeable. Just now he rivals Albert
Chevalier as the most fertile topic of conversation.
S.A. Register musical critic notices a moral service
and song, “John Dean’s Wife,” written by a Port
Adelaide man, and states the musical portion has been in
the hands of two people “who have adapted the music
of Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven to the words of the
hymn.”
Dear Bulletin,— Have you noticed that whenever a
travelling dramatic co. is announced to appear in a
country town, the local amateurs, or some hungry church
party, get up a concert or tea-meeting, a night or two
before appearance of the pro.’s? Thus, in most N.S.W.
country towns the local yahoos receive immense applause
from a large audience for butchering “The Midship-
mite,” dla chaffcutter, while a perhaps talented profes-
sional co. has to face an almost empty and silent house
on the following night! Only the other evening this sort
of thing happened in Warren. The local “ howlers and
hellpreaohers ” are a shabby 10t.—6 xB.
The just-deceased Sir John Don Wauchope, a very rich
and influential Scotch laird, inherited his baronetcy and
property at the death of his relative, Sir William Don,
once well-known in Australia as an actor. He owned
large estates which were heavily encumbered, hut they
have now become enormously valuable to the advantage
of the present Don Wauchopes (pronounced Walk-ups.)
Melbournian : “ I dropped recently into a church meet-
ing, where they debated church and stage. A young
man said he was a church member, also a playgoer, and
thought ‘Turquoisette ’ very bad taste in art, but
thoroughly proper. Another said: ‘The managers only
employ women in the ballet because they are cheaper
than men.’ I asked myself, ‘ls this innocence or
impudence?”*
“ Lex” : A woman’s marriage voids all other contracts.
If Vi Varley married Joe Tapley, or anyone else, all her
contracts would be sponged out. This was the case when
L. L. Lewis married Rosa Dunn, under Barry Sullivan’s
management, and she left the boards for ever, without a
day’s notice. Same again when Marcus Clarke married
Marion Dunn. If Varley and Tapley married now, they
would be discounted 40 per cent.
Xmas pantomime on at Irving’s Lyceum, London.
First in 25 years.
Dr. Neild was at home, in Melb. Shakespeare Society,
before the ladies, with a discussion on Falstaff. “The
poor fellow, you see, had drunkard’s heart. I assure you
I have out open hundreds of such.” The Shakesperiennes
turned qualmy.
“Oscar Barrett is going to give the Lyceum bars a
chance by making a 15 minutes’ interval in his play.”
The pantomime interval is quite new to London. Out
here they have been giving the bars two chances for years.
The Yankees have enthused over Tennyson’s “ Becket,”
and the present Irving-Terry tour is said to be beating all
previous records.
Pettitt, the dramatist, must have died rather suddenly,
for the Referee speaks of him “doing himself well” at
the Adelaide Gallery restaurant not more than _ two
months ago. His name crops up in connection with a
story of his old struggling days. Pettitt, it seems, once
offered a five-act melodrama to the Hebrew proprietors of
a very East-end London theatre. It was loaded up with
bigamy and gore, and he wanted £6 for it. Ultimately,
the Hebrews beat him down to “a ‘quid’ an act,” or £5
in all, and told him to think himself lucky. In Sept, last
these cormorants of auld lang syne came cringing to
Pettitt, with his horrible play in a black bag, and offered
to let him have it back for £5OO nett, or on terms._ They
gave him the option of re-writing it for their joint and
several benefit. Pettitt told the two gibbering Shylocks
to get out, whereupon they screamed through the key-
hole a ghastly threat to produce the £5 play in all its
early awfulneis, and blast his respectable name as a play-
wright. Poor Pettitt! It would make no odds to him,
now.
Miss Fortesoue continues touring the English provinces,
where she is a favourite, except at Newcastle-on-Tyne,
where the present Lord Cairns lived what time he was
simple Mr., and an of Armstrong, the big gun-
maker, and somewhat unchivalrously managed to imbue
the “ best people ” with a prejudice against her. The
Fortesoue holds herself quite aloof from her co., and
never speaks to any of them off the stage. Her leading
man, Vanderfelt, is madly in love with her, and shows it,
too, as Romeo, but she ll none of him. Indeed, she told
a lady, with whom she was staying recently, that
she didn’t suppose she would ever marry, as it is difficult
to find her ideal man. “He must lie handsome as a god,
amiable as an angel, virtuous, devoted, and rich as
Croesus.” When she finds such a one she will try and
forget “Gumboil,” who, of course, possessed all these
qualifications. Report says that Fortescue herself is far
from being an angel in temper.
At the zenith of her fame even Mrs. Siddons’ highest
contract was £lOOO for 80 nights ; Mrs. Jordan earned 30
guineas a week ; John Kemble, £36; whilst Edwin, the
best buffo and burietta singer that ever trod the stage,
received £l4 a week only.
Letter lately received by Beerbohm-Tree (so he says):—
“ Venered Sir—(laughter)—l wish to go on the stage, and
I would like to join your valuable theatre. I have been a
bricklayer for five years, but having failed in this branch
I have decided to take on acting—it being easier work.
(Laughter.) I am not young, but lam 6ft. without any
boots, I have studied Bell’s system of elocution, and am
fond of late hours." (Laughter.)
The latest London sensation is Arniotis, a girl of mar-
vellous skill, fine face, and trim figure, who, after carry-
ing a table, a barrel, and two chairs in her mouth round
the stage, astonishes spectators by bearing round the
barrel in the same way with first one man and then two
men astride it.
In “ Red Riding Hood,” at Melb. Princess’, the wolf
sports a bear’s skin and head.
Oaicedo’a rusty performing suitjfproves that he gets
£lOO a week.
Why should Cathoart be the only actor interviewed on
the language question ? There’s Johnny Wallace.
David Christie Murray now recites at London music-
halls.
“ I never go to the theatre, and if I have my way I
shall never set foot in it again, either in front or behind
the scenes.”—Mary Anderson.
Edwin Booth died worth £20,000, not counting £40,000
he gave the Players’ Club ere he died. Altogether he
made about £200,000 in 16 years.
Gov. William Wobinson’s new opera, played with
“immense success ” by amateurs before a Govt. House
audience at Perth, is called “The Handsome Ransom or
the Brigand’s Bride.”
Advt. of a music-hall song composer, from London
L’Entr’Actb: —“The Star Maker can always be found in
his office during office hours. His stock is too large to
carry in his pocket, and he does not care to hawk without
a licence. He has no time to loaf about street-corners,
but he will always be pleased to receive visits from
artists in search of good songs. He will not look vexed
if he has nothing suitable, but will he pleased to try
again. No attempt will be made to induce artists to buy
songs they don’t want, as McG. has his usual meals even
on days when he doesn’t sell a song. N.B.—Watch the
career of M'Glennon’s new author. His ideas are refresh-
ingly original. The Star Maker’s experienced hand will
guide him to a leading position in a short time.”
Alas, Poor Tinsley! We knew him well—a fellow of
infinite jest, most excellent humour—and to die of con-
sumption at 261
“ The smiles that men have made live after them,
The tears are oft interred with their bones—”
So let it be with Arthur Tinsley.
John R. Rogers (formerly Mr. Minnie Palmer) announces
that Minnie—who used to earn £5O a week—has now so
successfully disencumbered herself of her prestige that
she offered to play at London Shaftesbury without any
salary, as the only hope of getting a show. The oily little
John doesn’t seem to be growing any pleasanter as he
grows older.
Enriohetta D’Argo’s Spanish Dance is utterly lost in
Melbourne Princess’s Theatre Pantomime. The garish
chorus, in varying degrees of fatness and slimness, are
bunched all about her on the stage, and the gauze skirts
and pink fleshings look glaringly different and “ out of
the picture.” In a ballet-dance the “setting” some-
times is everything. So D’Argo, who dancers remark-
ably well, goes lor very little, while Mary Weir
and her sylphs, with “limes,” &c., get four encores
nightly. And if you want to see jealousy watch the
chorus “ darlings ” close in on D’Argo when she finishes
on tiptoe, and “ burke ” the applause.
Gallery boys at Melb. Alexandra don’t watch Barry’s
London mixture of vice and virtue; they watch Cope in
the orchestra blowing out candles. The Haleck doesn’t
sport electric-light at the conductor’s elbow, and “props”
gets candles for six, or something like it. When lights
go up, and villainy is unmasked, Cope puffs out his
farthing dip, and then in the most solemn passages a
copious spiral of yellowish smoke twirls upward
betwixt the audience and the stage, and people in the
d.c. have been heard to remark that it’s a shame to allow
the orchestra to smoke during the performance. The
" gods ” look for this now and never fail to emphasise.
A certain popular comedian was, a few years ago
directing a rehearsal, in Melbourne. Two painters’
suspended on a “tray” from the roof, were paint-
ing the proscenium. Presently, in the midst of the
rehearsing, a rope parted, and one of the men struck the
edge of the stage and rebounded off into the stall space,
where he lay huddled up. Everybody stopped short,
but—“ What are you wailing for? Go on," says the
comedian, and the rehearsal proceeded. The all-but
corpse was carried to the hospital, whence it did not
emerge for six months.
Nice, cheerful Christmas Joke in Garnet Welch’s
“book ” for Melb. Theatre Royal Pantomime. “ What do
you think will be the end of the human race ? ” “If
cremation has its way it will be a dead heat." The
audience take it like one unanimous mummy.
The Wild Cat Column.
Considering the wailings of English financial
authorities about the weakness of Australian banks, it
is interesting to note that the reserves of the big English
banks are all lamentably feeble, and far below even the
Australian standard. The huge National Provincial,
with 42 millions of deposits, has a cash reserve of 12 per
cent. The London and County (deposits, 33 millions)
has 11J per cent. ; Lloyd’s (24 millions deposits) hrs llj
percent., and the Capital and Counties (with nearly 12
millions of deposits) has only 11 per cent, cash reserve.
The rest of the big banks average about 14 per cent.,
while many of the Australian banks go as high as 30 per
cent. But for the fact that they have the Bank of Eng-
land to support them in times of stress, and that the
Bank of England has the State to fall back upon, the
English banks would, before this, have made the grandest
financial smash on record.
* # #
The liquidator of the Federal Bank has at last
decided—l 2 months after the falling-in of the late
lamented institution—to make a call of £1 per share. All
this time the creditors of the Federal have been waiting
patiently for information about its prospects, or for a
small dividend, or anything, but so far they have waited
mostly in vain.
* * #
The balance-sheet of the City Bank of Sydney,
for the half-year ending 31st December, 1893, furnishes
some more depressing literature for shareholders. The
net profits for the half-year are £10,735 19s. Bd., and a
little dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum
absorbs £10,418 Is. 4d., so that the bank is £317 18s. 4d.
stronger at the end of the half year than it was at the
beginning. The result is too melancholy to be called
progress or anything else of a definite character, still it
is a trifle better than that shown in last balance-sheet
when, after paying the same obscure dividend, the bank’s
position was “strengthened” by carrying forward
£8 4s. Bd. It seems a pity that the City doesn’t reduce
its dividend to 5 per cent, at the very outside, and make
at least a small addition to- its reserve. In times
like these, the bank that can only add £426 3s. to its
funds as the result of a year’s hard work is a very potter-
ing little institution. The City Bank, according to its
balance-sheet, has now a paid-up capital of £358,786, and
a reserve of £219,393, making in all £578,179. Even if it
can be supposed that there is no profit whatever on the
note circulation and the investment of deposits, the in-
terest earned on the shareholders’ funds for the last 12
months has been less than four per cent. This is a
tolerably desolate result, and if the City put its capital
and reserves into N.S.W. Government stocks, and gave up
the perilous banking business altogether, it would be
better for the shareholders by at least a fraction per cent.
The note-issue of the City Bank, which, before
the time of the legal tender proclamation, was under
£34,000, is now £126,830. During the garish period when
lOU’s were legal tender the issue rose to £176,217, and
the bank whoops considerably over the reduction. But
even now the City Bank circulates very nearly twice
as many notes as the Union, which does a vastly
larger business. The scheme of issuing £1,000,000 worth
of new shares is still being pushed forward, though the
question of how the public is to be induced to take up
new shares at par, when old ones are to be bought
in the open market at a heavy discount, remains
as unfathomable as ever. And, even apart from
this consideration, the lamentable £426 35., which remains
over and above the year’s dividend, is not a specially
brilliant inducement to any capitalist.
* • #
The reconstruction scheme of the N.Z. Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co. is a lamentably confused
arrangement, but considering the awful manner in which
the co. liad tied itself up among ordinary debenture-
holders, and preference debenture-holders, and extra-
preference debenture-holders, it could hardly be other-
wise. The new oo.’s first liability, if the scheme is
adopted, will be the “prior lien debenlurestock "bearing
4 per cent, interest and secured by a first mortgage on all
the uncalled-capital, a specific first mortgage on the oo.’s
gilt-edged securities, and a floating lien upon everything
it possesses down to the gum-brush. Also, when this
stock is redeemed it is to be done at 2J per cent, pre-
mium. Then follows the “A ” debenture stock at 5 per
cent interest, which is to be secured by a second mort-
gage on the uncalled capital and all the co.’s possessions,
assets, hopes, and everything else. This lot is to be re-
deemed at 5 per cent. premium. After that comes the
“ B” debenture stock, at 5 per cent, interest, with a
third mortgage over every thing, and also to be redeemed at
5 per cent, premium. The premium seems to be a humble
and unobtrusive grab which is unavoidable under the
circumstances, the old extra-preference debenture-holders
being bosses of the situation. After this the ordinary,
everyday creditors look in, and in case of a collapse
they will be duly paid after the prior lien debentures and
the “ A” debentures and the "B" debentures have all
been satisfied. Next come the preference shareholders,
with 160,000 shares, paid up to 70s. Then the first batch
of ordinary shareholders-40,000 £lO shares fully paid up.
And at the miserable tail of the procession comes the
second batch of ordinary shareholders, representing
280,000 £lO shares paid up to 30s.
The shareholders are to be fixed on a fearful
and wonderful plan. In the first place, 30s. a share is to
be written off, apparently as dead loss that somehow
didn’t appear in the duly-audited balance-sheet. This
amount has certainly not been lost by the stoppage of
business, for the business has been conducts d
as before, all through the suspension, under a
slightly - altered style, and has actually increased,
instead of diminished. Therefore, there is room
for much hard inquiry as to why the old balance-sheet
concealed this enormous loss, or else as to why the new
balance-sheet shows a losst.that doesn’t exist. After this
writing off, the holders of 140,000 shares written down to
£1 per share are required to take up 280,000 shares
credited to 10s. each, and to pay up £1 on each of these
shares, making the paid-up capital 30s. per share; and
further, to take 140,000 preference shares, and pav on
them £3 10s. per share. The total cabs will be equal to
£5 10s. on the shares in the old company. Then the
holders of the 20,000 fully paid-up shares, written down
to £23 Ios., will receive 40,000 shares fully paid-up to £lO,
and 20,000 preference shares paid to £3 10s,
When all this confusion is accomplished, the
big Loan and Mercantile Co.—with three mortgages on its
uncalled capital and three separate liens over everything
it possesses—will be in a melancholy state. A concern so
hideously hampered, and unable to take any decisive
steps in a crisis without the consent of three separate sets
of shareholders and three conflicting gangs of debenture-
holders, is bound to come to grief some time unless it gets
rid of some of i(s burdens. The best—if not the only pros-
pect—is to abjure dividends for ten years or so, until the
prior lien debenture stock, and the “A” debenture stock,
and that other incubus, the “ B” debenture stock, is paid
off, with the solemn curse and objurgation of all the pre-
ference shareholders, and the ordinary shareholders fully
paid-up, and the ordinary shareholders paid up to 305.,
and everybody else concerned. And, in the meantime,
the shareholders would do well to inquire about the
sudden vanishment of that £240,000 out of the assets, and
find out why ihe last balance-sheet said that things were
all right, when it now appears they were so very far wrong.
* # *
The bloated reconstruction scheme of the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia seems coming home to roost.
Last half-year the newly phcenixed bank paid no div. and
carried forward £26,141. The net profits for the present
half-year amount to rather less than £30,000, and as a
five per cent. div. on preference shares alone absorbs
£53,750 it follows that it has taken practically a whole
year’s profits to pay a half-year’s div. on preference shares
only. The telegraphic announcement of this weepful
circumstance winds up with the statement that, “ordinary
shares do not, therefore, participate this half-year.”
“This half-year ” is good, tor if business continues at its
present rate, the ordinary stock won’t participate either
next or any other half-year as long us the bank lasts, and
the preference shareholders will have to be content here-


To Prospectors. —The advertiser, who has ample capita
it command, also long mining experience, invites offers
good gold-mining properties, to be worked for the
mine, not the market; particularly gravitation, hydraulic-
iluicing damps. Send offers, with lullist particulars, to
"Oro,” ‘i Pirie-strect, Adelaide.
New York Life Insurance Company.
ESTABLISHED 1845.
Total Assets, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... .£28,292,016
Surplus, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... ... 3,457,808
Progress of the Company in 1592,
INCREASE IN BENEFITS TO POLICY-HOLDERS .. - .. « £212,*29
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. •• •• « 2,376,035
INCREASE IN SUPLUS .. .. .. ... •• •• - 342,371
INCREASE IN INSURANCE WRITTEN .. .. .. .. 4,308,680
INCREASE IN INSURANCE IN FORCE .. .. .. •• - 12.379,722
The increase during the year in amount of insurance in force is larger, by over .£2,000,000, than
the gain of any other Company in the world.
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager, Department of Australasia.
Chief Office: Hand Street Chambers, Sydney, N,S»W»
ln*f Pin 000 in the half-year, that it had to pay away
jgssws* saStt H-*' *3 r. k t 'ite SdS
“SiHES^r«ss?
shareholder in the Commercial of Australia.
Allowing' for all the time and money lost in the
Allowing 101 fj* h t he suspension, the results of
fr iiTh .U vear wo.se than those of’the one before.
Moreover, the bank’s explanation of its present unsatW;
}?"• the deposit business and the note-issue both yield
o?jolu telv tlothing- A bank that can get so far down
must have a tremendous lot both of capital and
u nosits locked up in dead or cataleptic investments.
Uem in the balance-sheet is a lump sum
, +'7 77-2 538 which represents the unrealised assets of
old bank%nd the new bank accounts for its situation
hv acknowledging that these alleged assets (which com-
prise more than the whole deposits) are to a great extent
P, r * ®.‘.nteresl-bearing and not readily realisable. It
would be interesting to know how much of them will ever
becomelnterest-bearing or realisable. Further, such an
enormous ainount of money doesn’t freeze up in an
instant and right up to the end of last year the old
Oo.nme’rcial profeised to show large profits which could
only he accounted for on the theory that these assets were
bearing interest.
In a word, the balance-sheet of a year ago
showed that the old bank was flourishing, thoroughly
sou„d. and making large profits. And to-day we have a
sheet from the same people setting forth that the new
bank can't make anything like decent profits because the
old bank had nearly £8,000,000 locked up in securities
which (elastic term!) were largely “ non-interest bearing
and not readily realisable.” Only when bank-accounts
are audited by Govt, will the public know exactly how they
stand. # * *
The Bank of Victoria pays a dividend at the
rate of five per cent, per annum on preference and
ordinary shares alike, and carries forward nearly £5OOO.
The result is not brilliant in itself, but it seems sound,
and cjmpared to the results obtained by the Commercial
of Australia it is Oriental magnificence.
# # *
The Victoria Insurance Co. is about the steadiest
and most absolutely reliable institution .of its kind in
Australia. For 1893 it has paid about 15 per cent in divi-
dends, established a contingency fund of £15,000, and
has £12,000 left to carry forward.
» * •
The reconstructed bank of North Queensland
still tackles its difficulties in a vigorous spirit. After pay-
off the remainder of its reconstruction expenses it
carries forward its whole available balance of about
£5OOO. Tins bank has shut down with a strong hand on
share-transfers till it is again in a dividend-paying state,
so that in case of further trouble the rich shareholders
can’t pass their shares on to men of straw and stand from
under themselves
* # *
The A.J.S. Bank shows a net profit for the
half-year of £51,000, out of which it pays a 5 per cent,
dividend (about £23,000); places a similar amount to the
reserve fund, which now stands at £35,000 ; and carries
the balance forward. A bank which earns 11 per cent,
a id only pays away five in dividends is on the right road.
The A.J.S. balance-sheet is much more comprehensible
than the average, it has a large cash reserve, and its
prospects seem generally good. Much of its loose cash
seems to be held in British consols.
• # *
The alleged share-boom in Adelaide is very sick
indeed.
# • •
A certain provincial N.S.W. Building Society
has deemed it necessary to send for a prominent account-
ant to overhaul its affairs. The local auditors signed the
balance-sheet, but repented thereof, and begged the secre-
tary to withdraw their signatures prior to the holding of
the convened meeting. The secretary declined and pre-
sented the balance-sheet in due coarse. Hence the
trouble.
# * •
Things are now in such a state that when an
officer of a big financial institution steals nearer £lO,OOO
than £6OOO not a word can be said about the matter for
fear of disturbing “confidence.” The delinquent’s con-
nections are stated to have shelled out 10s. in the £.
If they did, they were “ mugs,” as the institution would
as readily have taken 2s. 6d.
• # •
Stated that one bank lent .£40,000 on a second
mortgage upon the security of property on which a dead
bank had advanced £lOO,OOO. Yet the men who loudly
condemned the first loan as reckless say nothing about the
second, which surely was even less excusable.
* # •
Sydney will profess to be shocked a few days
hence when it publicly hears the name of the solicitor
who has run through several thousands of trust-moneys.
“ Race-horses ” again. “ Lay to your book.”
• • •
A certain coal-mine proprietor lately returned
from a trip to Europe. The day after his arrival he pro-
ceeded to his office and gave notice of dismissal to all
hands, from the manager to the miners. Then he offered
them their respective billets back at reduced salaries,
with the simple explanation that wages were less in
Europe. There is evidently a bad time ahead for his em-
ployes should that mine-owner ever visit a mine in, say,
Japan.
tt • •
Apropos a big (impending) failure for which the
wrong man is “carrying the baby.” A partner in the
firm who “knew a bit” invested, 18 months ago, some
£12,000 of the firm’s money in a mine (a private affair)
of which, we will say, Mr. Jobson was manager. Jobson
levanted ; the mine turned out a dead swindle, and the
sequel is embedded in the following par from a South
Country paper of Oot. last: “The Primitive Methodist
connection of this town are invited for Wednesday next
to attend the house-warming of Mr. Jobson who, four
years ago, was the most zealous and active of the local
preachers in the connection. It Will be remembered that
the good gentleman left the town some four years since to
try his fortune at the Antipodes. Qod has blessed him.
He discovered a mine from which he has reaped over
£lO,OOO, and he has returned to his native town, pur-
chased land, built himself a house, and will shortly take
to himself a wife to share with him the fruits of his enter-
prise in Sunny Australia.” If that partner could only
see that paragraph, what price that happy home 1 And
isn’t it cruel for a busted speculator to be termed “ a
mine” by a local preacher?
# • *
Another version of it“ When he discovered
the Reward mine and showed it to one or two of his
friends, they asked, ‘ Why don’t you break into such a
rich face of reef and see how far it goes?’ ‘No,’said
Bayley, ‘ I want to sell the mine. I’ve spoilt more than
one goo,l-looking thing through over-anxiety.’ Along
came the syndicate ; they saw the promising face and
made an offer of £6OOO down and a-sixth share in the
mine. ‘Right,’ said Bayley, ‘it’s a bargain.’ And so it
was. And that is about the only sane theory on which
one can account for Bayley’s sale to Browne. Despite
the magnitude of Browne’s “punch,” Bayley did what in
90 cases out of 100 is emphatically the right thing. One
Bulletin proverb is: “ Lay to your book.” Another is:
Never punch a good face.”
• * *
At Coolgardie, Bayley’s Reward is worked “ in
a very curious fashion. They put one gentleman and one
working man together, as the stuff is so rich that it is im-
possible to get along without somebody to be trusted.”
Ourious fashion to trust a gentleman ! We thought Aus-
tralia was rather tired of that theory.
• • •
The Vie. debentures, which the Backbone
Government recently sold with such a tremendous whoop
of self-gratulation at £96, are now fetching £lO2 in
London. They could have been sold for £lOO in Mel-
bourne, but Carter was suffering from one of his deranged
enthusiasms at the time, and when the province only lost
about £140,000 over the transaction, the Cabinet called
wildly for champagne to celebrate the event.
• * *
A big firm (identified, as usual, with piety)
is in difficulties, despite a nominal capital of nearly
£1,000,000. Five Southern and two or three outside
firms may go “in sympathy.”
# # •
A certain reconstructed institution has .£125,000
“dead” on a timber merchant; £60,000 in a “dead”
wine and spirit firm ; £200,000 in a dying brewery;
£95,000 in ironmongery; and between £lOO,OOO and
£120,000 on a struggling wheat firm. And yet its deposit-
receipts sell at a rather small discount off face-value 1
« * •
One of the oldest-established and most popular
Vic. timber-merchants had to get a six months’ extension
last week. Two more in the same line would follow, but
two reconstructed banks can’t possibly afford to drop
them.
• • *
During 1894, Victorian shareholders in recon-
structed banks have to pay £1,800,000 in calls. Just
£200,000 over the value of that province’s wheat export 1
“ The harvest,” by the way, is always depended upon by
most Melb. distributors to reduce the volume of
“renewals” required 10 months out of 12 by country
storekeepers. It looks as if the banks will get the cash
and the merchants the paper this year, anyway.
* • *
Despite the fact that Standard Bank deposit
receipts are daily quoted at 7s. 6d., the writer has hunted
Melbourne through and can’t get 6s. 6d. Most of the
quotations for re-constructed bank deposit-receipts are
bogus.
• • *
Suppose an irreligious devil who was lucky
enough to have two banking accounts, were to induce
three friends (equally irreligious) banking at other banks
tp work accommodation paper for, say, £300,000. Sup-
pose that none of the “paper” was of any value, how
much “time” would that poor devil of a financier get
when found out? One right-thinking Australian is
credited with having thus worked seven banks.
* * #
Manager Begelhole, of Bayley’s Reward,
formerly managed the Great Northern at Drake, N.S.W.,
abandoned as a waster, but now a substantially good
property. A Bulletin correspondent from that locality
jibes at the Begelhole’s sensational report on Bayley’s,
lately printed in this paper. This manager, says his
critic, seems to be adopting at Coolgardie his practice of
gutting a mine for rich dabs. Perhaps so, but it is im-
possible to under-estimate Drake mines. Most of them
are incapable of too much condemnation. After all, it is
human for mining managers to over-estimate poor mines
and to under-estimate very rich ones. Bayley’s is un-
doubtedly one of the latter, and if Begelhole is an excep-
tion to the rule he is a fool to his own reputation.
# • #
They don’t back miners at Coolgardie and
Murchison. A Murchison storekeeper advertises:—“A
fortnight’s credit given to wage-men but all others must
pay cash.”
# * •
Miller, Vic. railway contractor—did he own the
Union mine in the Northern Territory ?—advises the
erection of crushing machinery on the banks of Swan
River (VV.A.) for the treatment of Coolgardie and Southern
Cross ores to be conveyed there by rail. The idea is
approved of. In the flat country of these fields a narrow-
gauge line costs less than £2OOO a mile, and ore could be
profitably carried at less than a penny a mile. If the
Coolgardie big reefs will go loz. to the ton, here is a solu-
tion of the water difficulty. Low-grade ores are carried
200 miles in the States for treatment.
• • •
Baker’s Creek total divs. to date—.£lB2,soo. It
never had a call. It is hard for some people to believe
that this mine is in N.S.W. A too enthusiastic director
declared in Adelaide lately that he had seen three tons of
ore at the mine which would go loz. to the lb. Let’s see,
that would be 67200 z. gold.
» * *
Premier Dibbs says the N.S.W. M. on P. P.
Bill will give work to 15,000 men. Sheer humbug. Four-
fifths of N.S.W. is already open to mining, and the
owners of fully four-fifths of the balance would be agree-
able to throw open their lauds if prospects warranted it.
An Act is needed, and must be passed, but it will probably
not find remunerative work for 1500 men.
• # *
Vic. ’93 gold-yield, .£2,700,000, or about ,£ll2 a
man for the 24,000 miners employed. Nothing to boast
of, but nearly £2O a man more than 10 years ago. N.S.W.
figures not available, but compare those of Bathurst
mining district which includes many well-known fields :
output, £38,000, or about £25 per man for about 1500
employed.
» « *
Some B.H. Proprietary half-yearly figures:—
Wages and salaries (exclusive of directors’ tees and office
expenses), £155,781 Is. 7d.; coke, £133,146 2s. Id.; lime-
stone, £61,046 17s. 5d.; mine timber, £52,505 14s. ; coal,
£36,048 7s. 6d.
• • •
Broken Hill Proprietary, during the half-year
to Nov. 30 last, treated 260,047 tons of ore, producing
25,822 tons lead, 6,533,2320 z. silver, 333 tons copper, and
14310 z. gold. Net profit for period, £453,632175. 3d.
» • •
The Proprietary reserve-fund now amounts to
£110,000—£30,000 having been added during the past
half-year.
• • #
Last year the big Broken Hill mine broke the
world’s record by producing 12J million ozs. of silver and
nearly 50,000 tons lead. Value of metals, nearly three
millions—more than that of all the gold produced last
year by Queensland or Victoria.
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold, N.S.W., reports
treating nearly 3000 tons tailings by cyanide—averaging
Bto lOdwts. It is from a heap of some 30,000 tons left
many years ago. They say nothing about the value of
the gold thus discovered. The writer happened to see
some bars of it a few days ago, and at once concluded
that it was not worth much over £2 10s. an oz.
* # *
Peak Hill Proprietary’s 35-head battery still
shut down for want of water. It should teach the manage-
ment a lesson.
* # *
Next to falling off a log the easiest thing is to
run a mining-share barometer of dividend-paying mines.
You, of course, predict a rise when a div. is approaching,
and a fall after it is paid ; then, the following week,
allusion to the div., you show your own
accuracy to the unthinking.
« tt •
Two months ago, twenty Queenslanders —miners
all—left for South Africa. Writing from the Cape they
spin a doleful yarn about its overcrowded state, and they
hear there the same story of the Kandt, where 500
arrive every week from England alone.
Mt. Allen is another N.S.W. mine whose share-
holders are bursting with indignation. Good body of oz.
ore, fine 20-head mill, but no water ; worse still, precious
little provision made to conserve any. It is time snare-
holders acted instead of writing indignantly.
# * *
Said that Gibbs, Bright & Co. have paid
for one-sixth interest in the Emerald Hill mine, ”- A -
Last crushing, 15 ozs. to the ton. Ore at grass, 400 tons.
The six owners have already cleared £30,000.
# * *
Mt. Gabon, Pambula, after a period of trouble,
has got on to better ore.
* # #
Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo, another Vic. stayer,
shows signs of approaching weakness.
« * •
The latest gold-saving machine is from Goul-
burn, and is the invention of a watchmaker. Says
S.M. Herald: “It is thought that in any gold-bearing
earth a man with this machine can make loz. a day. So
mote it be ! God bless Jerger, the Qoulburn horloger,
whose little machine will give every man, say, £3 10s. a
day. Then shall we all have a fowl in our pot, and the
cities will be to let. Heaven has come. The Jerger
machine has arrived.
# * *
Herberton (N.Q.) tin yield for 1893 was 1600
tons, worth £72,000; and silver, 287,6000 z., worth
£43,000. The field was never duller.
* • *
Jack, discoverer of Herberton (N.Q.) tin-field,
is gold-mining at Sumalatta, North Celebes. lie and his
mate have put down four shafts and driven a 400 ft. tunnel,
with good prospects.
• # •
Thompson’s Reef, One, W.A., which recently
gave 253 ounces for 50 tons of stone put through the
Huntingdon mill, has been bought by that horsey Broken-
hillionaire, W. R. Wilson.
« * *
By the Orient boat, which brought Lord Percy
Douglas (with his bride) back to Westralia, came a dozen
English “ gentlemen adventurers ” bent on trying their
luck at the Murchison.
• • •
The proprietors of the Oremorne coal-beds
prompted Premier Dibbs to again prorogue, go to Eng-
land in their interests, and return in time for the general
election.
* * *
A dog-cart, with “Debt Collector” painted
around it, and drawn by a dun pony, is now an
everyday sight in some parts of Sydney. The man who
wore the w r hite paper hat emblazoned with a similar
legend and who took his place on the steps of the debtor’s
hall-door at 10 a.m. and did not retire till nightfall, came
to legal grief many years ago, owing to the decision of a
Sydney Justice, and it may, therefore, come to pass that
the mission of the dog-cart and dun pony will be a
troubled one.
# • *
A movement is evidently afoot to make John
Woods manager of the Port Jackson Steamship Co.
* * *
The curse of the Murchison, says a local paper,
threatens to be the numerous families of “experts’’ on
it. Experts far out-number the moleskin miners. Pre-
sently the man who pronounces he has a reef of less
average than soz. to the ton will be looked upon as hold-
ing a duffer show.
• * #
A Gympie mine—No. 1 North Phoenix—has
never yet made a call, and has paid £402,000 in 200
continuous dividends.
tt * *
In South Africa, particularly at Johannesburg,
the white mining population have an especial down on
Australians. Except with some of the great companies
an Australian miner stands no show of getting employ-
ment, Alleged reason—too much “side.” Among the
Australian local managers is that good man, Alf. Morrisby,
a Tasmanian native, erstwhile of the Hodgkiuson, Q. He
gets £2OOO a year.
» • •
Charters Towers three great lines of reefs—Day
Dawn, Queen, and Brilliant, yielded (without including
small lots) the following gold, last year: Day Dawn line,
65,729 oz.; Queen line, 24,754 oz.; Brilliant line, 78,251 oz.
# # *
Three sapphires from Retreat Creek (C.Q.) were
sold recently for 30s. The purchaser had two of them
cut and polished at a cost of 455., and then sold them for
£45. There are said to be plenty of similar gems at the
same spot.
» * *
The output of sugar for Queensland for 1893
was nearly 81,000 tons, valued at £1,000,000. For the
current year 100,000 tons are expected. The Sugar Works
Guarantee Act should, in 1895, bring the production up
to 140,000 tons.
• # •
A Yalgoo (W.A.) syndicate has obtained
8430 z. gold from 85 tons ore.
« * »
Nearly 400 leases already taken up at Cool-
gardie. The latest plan does not show half of the total
number.
• • •
Low’s Log Paddock Freehold pursues the mono-
tonous, never-ending prospecting and never-washing
tenor of its way.
• « •
No. 5 Sunlight tunnel rapidly nearing the spot
where the lode should be. If payable here, it will give a
new life to a mine which is now being economically
worked.
• * •
The moment the Mashonaland wet season is
over thousands will make their way from every port in
South Africa. The coming trouble will be with the
Chartered Co., which claims one half of all gold and con-
tributes nothing to finding it.
* * *
Some fine pearls have lately been found in
Torres Straits. Three have fetched £3OO, £350, and £4OO
locally ; and others as good, or better, have been sent to
London.
• • •
Recent Croydon crushings No. 1 North
(Rogers’) Golden Gate, 93 tons, 115 oz. ; No. 8 North
Golden Gate, 130 tons, 3530 z. ; No. 2 North Homeward
Bound, 123 tons, 2370 z.; M'Arthur p.c., 170 tons, llloz.
* * •
The two best mining tributes in N.S.W. are on
one field—The Bushman’s and the Dayspring at Parkes.
Last Dayspring crushing—l 37 loads, 2040 z.
* * *
Judged by results to date, Murchison (W.A.)
goldfield is far better for working miners than Coolgardie.
Gf nine Victorian expeditions to Coolgardie, eight have
returned dead-broke, and the other (five members) drank
itself to death ; whereas, of ten expeditions to Mur-
chison, eight are doing exceedingly well. The treasurer
of one was lambed-down by a siren at Geraldton, and the
other expedition is distributed promiscuously around the
hotels of Freemantle and Perth.
• « *
The Victorian railway department has tried the
apparently reckless experiment of reducing fares on the
unprofitable Whittlesea line by CO per cent. The Whittle-
sea line was selected because it was already so bad that a
change could hardly, by any possibility, be for the worse.
The results, within a fortnight, were that the traffic in-
creased fourfold and the takings almost doubled. Next
time Victoria or N.S. Wales has a decent surplus it might
be almost worth while to reduce all fares 50 per cent, and
darn the consequences. It is just possible that the result
would be such a period of bloated affluence as no Aus-
tralian railway department has yet witnessed.
# # #
During the past year, United States railway
companies, with 18,000 miles of railways, have gone bank-
rupt, liabilities £162,600,000. The U.S. railway com-
panies, taken as a whole, are, from a financial standpoint,
about the worst-managed on earth, and those people
who are always clamouring for a U.S. “ expert ” to hurry
the Australian railway systems into general bankruptcy
would do well to make a note of it.
* # •
It is about time that something of a violent
character were being done in the matter of the great Melb.
Premier Permanent Building Society. For years warrior
Templeton has been drawing a huge salary as liquidator.
The big case against the directors is ancient history.
James Mirams’ umbrella was tried and sentenced
to 18 months gaol, and the expiration of the sentence is a
very old story now. And yet the Premier has paid no
div. to its creditors, and there is no sign of a dividend. The
liquidator who is paid a salary has no interest in hurry-
ing, and the liquidator who is paid by a percentage on
receipts makes a £lO,OOO call to make up a £lOO shortage,
and then collects his commission on the £lO,OOO and
hands back the balance. Either way the creditors get
left.
• * *
In 1892, i!13,907,840 gold was coined at the
British Mint. Silver coin now circulates at the legal
value of 6s. 6d. per oz., whereas silver is now worth only
about 2s. Bd. per oz.
Not Munchausenic : Grubs 4ft. long in
Gippsland.
*An Adelaide firm proposes to start a news-
paper at Coolgardie.
The red-straw hat is the newest fad of the
Melb. swell.
Zola is shocked with the consumption of
intoxicants among English ladies.
The State pays about six millions per
annum to the parsons of the Church of England.
The Van Diemen’s Bank lottery shares are
boomed in Melb. People naturally ask why some
of the local financial troubles cannot be lifted in
the same way.
Ipswich Times explains that The Bulletin
is not “ a yahoo journal. ” It was all a mistake.
The Bulletin, it seems, “ is one of the finest,”
and so on.
He (to his wife, just dressed for the ball) :
“But, my dear, isn’t it—well, you know, some-
what low in the —er —front?” Wife (admiring
herself in the glass) : “ Nonsense, my dear ; what
you notice is my figure, which is a trifle high.”
In “How Tommy Atkins is Fed,” in
Blackwood, the superiority of Australasian
mutton over English is maintained, Colonel
Burnett’s opinion being quoted and an English
farmer’s : “ It’s only prejudice that saves us ! ”
Whales are being captured in nets on the
M.L. coast. An observant whaler, having noticed
for several seasons that the whales, in their jour-
neys southward, invariably passed between a
small island and the mainland, blocked the little
strait with nets, and then beset the nonplussed
animals with harpoon and lance. As many as six
whales were thus caught in one day last season.
The only live business in Melbourne just
now is that of burying the dead. Age advt. ;
EVERY customer or introducer business 1894 pre-
sented building size allotment land, freehold;
call Jones & Sons, cheap undertakers, Melbourne,
Richmond, Abbotsford.
The advertiser is, The Bulletin fears, son of a
once-famous Southern politician.
Editor Bulletin, —The swagman isn’t
really the hushworker’s worst enemy, as
“ Waipoie ” asserts. The bushworker’s tenure of
his billet is menaced chiefly by the shiftless “ cock-
atoo,” and the bell-bottomed hobbledehoy from
town and city, which two (species of “scab,”
always willing to work more cheaply than anyone
else, Chinamen not excepted, have now got
possession of the bulk of the bush work in N.S.W.
The average swagman isn’t much pumpkins, but
where the rate of wages is concerned, as a rule he
doesn’t “creep ” while he can buy, beg, or steal a
bit of food. —Whalebone.
The son of an English rector has just been
bowled out in the meanest fraud of the century.
He used to advertise in the London papers for a
governess to go to Maoriland and take charge of
his children, and the successful applicant was
always urged to lay in a good stock of clothes
as such tilings were very dear in “ the kawlinies.”
Then he professed to secure the girl’s passage by
steamer, and used to take her to Fenchurch-street
station where he left her in the waiting-room
while he got her boxes on board. At this stage
he always fled with the boxes, and having sold the
clothes would have an orgie upon the proceeds.
It takes a tolerably hardened parson’s son to run
a swindle of this sort.
London Referee is rough upon a hreach-
of-promise case jury:—“A brewer’s traveller,
earning two or three pounds a week, makes the
acquaintance of a dressmaker, whom he first sees
smoking a cigarette at an open window. They
walk out together for some weeks, in which the
plaintiff allows herself to be seduced in a public
lane. His promise to marry her is a verbal one.
By accident she subsequently discovers that he is
a married man, and the jury award her .£5OO.
What did the plaintiff really lose in this ease,
besides that honour which she gave away by the
roadside in the bitter month of November? A
prospective husband in receipt of two or three
pounds a week. On the same scale a man earning
,£3OOO a year would have been oast in .£lO,OOO
damages.” Perhaps the jury thought that the
affliction of a girl who loves not wisely under such
chilly circumstances was a matter for substantial
sympathy. Evidently she had given all her heart
to the brewer’s drummer.
Messrs. Hordern Bros., of Pibt-street,
Sydney, have just completed the first week of their
gigantic “All Nations Sale.” Bands have been
playing all day, the flags of all nations have
been flying, music of all nations, including the
skirl of the bagpipes, has been rendered, and
people of all nations have congregated round.
All the stock has been reduced to the lowest
reconstruction prices. In the carpet-window a
bedroom was arranged, and a boy was calmly
lying in bed to lend an air of reality to the sur-
roundings (the fact that the boy, in a moment of
excitement, turned in with his boots on is a mere
circumstance). Country people are notified, on
page 19, that their wants shall receive prompt
attention, and goods will be sent awav the Same
day the order is received.


As a toilet article, Ayer’s Hair Vigor stands
unrivalled. It cleanses the scalp, removes dan-
druff, cures itching humors, promotes the growth
of the hair, and restores to faded and gray hair its
original colour.
LR APE MAWS
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Ealchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridgo-st., Sydney.
“IMITATION
is the
SINCEREST FLATTERY.”
The articles most imitated are
CLEMENTS TONIC and
FLETCHER’S PILLS.
WHY?
BECAUSE they have the best reputation and
are most in demand by the public, consequently,
every dishonest trader tries to trade on their fame
and renown.
It is really wonderful that the Australian people
are so slow to see the truth as regards the un-
scrupulous quacks and charlatans who prey on the
credulity of the Australian public. Scarcely a
week ever passes but what the press exposes the
barefaced and shameful practices of some of these
harpies, yet, in face of all they seem to thrive,
and the paper who hounds them down most
thrives fattest on their advertisements and cracks
champagne over each balance-sheet. Clements
Tonic and Fletcher’s Pills have never yet stooped
to deception and misrepresentation. They are
scientific therapeutical agents, and evidence as to
their value can be found in every district, and
such being the case it is unnecssary to further
xtol their virtues.
sHoCadackv
filhi 'L M.r(toa / KuAi
o(Aix*Xj t'C.
Personal Items.
New reading (by Toby Barton) : “ Every-
thing comes to those who have weight.”
The latest fairy tale is that Alban Riley,
of Sydney, was offered a knighthood, but refused
it.
R. S. Smythe’s picture is in a recent issue
of Sporting and Dramatic News. The cheek is
lifelike.
When editor Haddon does retire, the
Argus political thermometer may indicate a
sudden rise to penny sentiments.
In N.S. Wales Legislative Council Cham-
ber, on Jan. 17, was a lady who has not missed
an opening of Parliament since the year 1852,
Tamworth Piddington is responsible for
the statement that Daniel Cooper, bart., draws
£85,000 per annum from his Sydney property.
There is a rumour that Deeming has
married Mrs. Knorr, in Heaven. It was a “ very
pretty wedding and the bride wore ” —etcetera.
The old Victorian executioner, Barnford,
hanged no less than 71 persons during his term of
office, 16 years. He died in misery in 1873, aged
73.
Arthur Bayley, of Coolgardie celebrity,
was known in N.Q., a few years hack, as a
pedestrian, and won several handicaps in the Gulf-
country.
Parkes’ portrait, by Ashton, is not in
Sydney Art Gallery. It was surreptitiously
smuggled to Chicago, and has not yet been
returned.
The Mercantile Bank cases are fixed for
15th February. But this does not necessarily
mean that Crown Prosecutor Walsh has found a
“ true bill.”
In March the Czar completes the thirteenth
year of his reign—thirteen is the “devil’s
number.” If he gets through March safely he
may dodge Nihilism altogether.
Hancock told Hopetoun that if he would
reprieve Mrs. Knorr, the act would “add to his
popularity in this world and the next.” Picture
his Lordship popular in Heaven !
Max O’Rell says the Scot of commerce
owes his success to the fact that he is economical,
industrious, an early riser, possessing a healthy
body, a cool head and warm feet, a man re’igious
in his principles, and who'never pays cash without
reflection.
London papers of 9th Dec. take from a
quarter to half-a-column to say that Gladstone
ate something which disagreed with him, and
caused stomach-ache. Luckily, he was better
almost as soon as he was bad ; so the great heart
of the nation didn’t have to throb as much as
might reasonably have been expected.
The house in which
John Mitchell, the straight-
est and biggest-headed of
Irish Nationalists, lived in
Sydney after his strategi-
cally-planned escape from
prison, has been since con-
verted into a boarding-
house, and was for a time
the residence of John
Tyerman, the once popular
Freethenght Sydney lec-
turer. The house is one
of a row in Woolloomooloo-
street, Woolloomooloo.
The correct name of
“ Jones,” Victoria’s hang-
man and flogger, who cut
his own throat rather than
strangle Mrs. Knorr, was
Thomas Perrin, but the
fiction was officially men-
tioned that it was “Jones,”
also that he had no nose,
hence his cognomen
“ Nosey.” When perform-
ing his hideous functions
he v wore a mask in protec-
tion of the fictions afore-
said. It is poetically just
that these pariahs of
society generally have
miserable ends.
A high Australian
police-official, famous as a
martinet, once penned the
following neat minute to a
subordinate ;—“ Mounted-
constable Sullivan will re-
member that it is quite
impossible for him to make
a correct proboscis of the
expensesinquestion.” Then
Sullivan, an educated man,
returned the papers, point-
ing out that the correct
word was “prognosis,”
but he lojt his billet within
six months. The original
minute still exists.
Mr. Arthur Galton, private secretary to
Gov. Duff, is credited with a growing desire to
enter N.S.W. politics, with a view to his greater
usefulness in the Empire hereafter,
Randolph Churchill collects the teeth of
notorious murderers. He has a grinder from the
jaw of every criminal of importance hanged in
England during the last ten years.
Lord Kintore claims that during his stay
In Adelaide he has spent .£2OOO a year beyond his
official income —.£5000. But he reckons in the
expense of running his ’Ome households.
Three famous ex-butchers in Australasian
history; J. B. Patterson (Vic.), Dick Seddon
(M.L.), and Arthur Orton (N.S.W.); these three
—and the most famous of them is Qrton.
Mrs. Elizabeth Yates, J.P., Onehunga,
M.L. Mrs. Yates’ portrait shows her hair in
bandeaux, plastered over her temples. Any
woman who does that has a will of her own.
When the suicide of hangman “Jones”
was announced to Premier Patterson, a prominent
official, who was present, remarked jocfcrtwrly,
“ Ah, then we won’t be able to hang M rs. Kuorr. ”
But Patterson couldn’t see the joke. He set that
ugly jaw of ids, and griudy said, “Won’t we!
She’ll hang right enough.”
One week, an English scion of nobility
has to stay home from Sydney races because his
only pair of pants needs *a patch. Almost next
week he strikes it rich iii Westralia. Such is
life!
The Broken Hill bank - manager who
smashed Labour-leader Sleath’s , head with an
office-ruler, has been promoted, and is now
inspector of branches with his head-office in
Sydney.
N.S.W, Minister Copeland to publican
Jones, M.P., a couple of months ago; “You
common beer-seller!” Publican Jones back to
Copeland : “Yes, I sell beer, and a lot of it to
men like you !”
Premier Kingston was one of the pioneer
Barrier investors, and now owns three-fourths of
the shares in a Southern Cross gold-mine.
Although a plucky investor, he has dropped a
fortune in mining,
Adelaide, the city of saints, possesses a
publican who was once a lay-reader and temper-
ance lecturer, and who is bound to a brewery
which was started by a Wesleyan parson and
temperance crank.
There was once a N.S.W. statesman who
said he could not possibly go to England, as he
was unable to secure a pair. However, all his
friends and enemies knew the real reason —lie had
paired with a bailiff.
Mr. Hindle, M.P., whose “calling atten-
tion ” to the over-soda’d condition of Lands
Minister Copeland in N.S.W. Assembly, the
other night, resulted in that Minister’s resigna-
tion, is a teetotal crank.
“ Locky ” M'Bean, the octogenarian
N.S.W. squatter killed by a buggy-fall, last week,
is said to have left a million sterling. This, how-
ever, is not likely, for Locky loved his money too
well to let it stay behind.
Stead is going to write a hook entitled,
“If Christ came to Chicago.” In it the things
which strike Stead about Chicago will presumably
strike Christ. This identification of Christ and
Stead is most characteristic.
In sneering at W. P. Manning’s accession
to the “most inferior order of the British
nobility,” barrister Reid no doubt forgot that three
of the N.S.W. Judges—Darley, Windeyer, and
Innes —belong to the same inferior order.
No doubt Parson Hellfire Talmage, R. S.
Smythe’s next lecturer, will be a succes de curiosiU.
He has been for years well advertised in Aus-
tralia by those benevolent people who pay for the
insertion of sermons in the heavy weeklies.
One of Toby Barton’s stories about Reid :
A gentleman came from some distance to Sydney, and
asked the gentleman who was entertaining him, “ What
is the reason that Reid has not been a loader before now,
seeing that he is a gentleman of some ability?” The
answer was, “They did not look upon him as a serious
politician.” “And do they now?” was asked.
reply was, “They now think he is a serious mistake.”
COFFEE FRLRC R
UP FOR THE CUP.
(Seene.-Suburlaii Coffee Palace )
WAITER: “ Here’s a chap wants a cup of coffee.”
WAITRESS (amazed) : “Coffee ! Hasn’t he brought his own sperrits?”
Millionaire Sydney Burdekin said lately
that he will not again accept the Mayoralty of
Sydney until the salary of the post is raised from
£llOOO to 161500. Yet Burdekin could live well
on the interest of the interest of his interest.
Tommy Walker has, in N.S.W. Assembly,
denounced G. H. Reid for taking liberties with
the name of the Almighty. And yet, not so very
long ago, Tommy used to take up a collection at
the door for doing the very same thing himself.
During his recent visit to this country
Organist Best, of Liverpool (Eng.), attended an
organ-recital at Sydney University given by a
..well-known looal performer. The consequent
nervous excitement of that gentleman was quite
unnecessary, as the veteran was discovered to bo
fast asleep after the second item, and he remained
so to the end.
Australians will not be surprised to hear
that the Duke of Edinburgh did not surrender
his allowance of .£25,000 a year from the British
tax-payer until both Gladstone and Salisbury had
assured him that he would not bo allowed to
keep it.
W. H. Gibson, governor of Castlemaine
(Vic.), gaol, has witnessed and superintended
upwards of 100 executions. It was he who
instructed the late “Jones ”in his “ work.” He
was present at Mrs. Knorr’s execution to prevent
a botch.
A sale of B. J. Fink’s “costly household
furniture and effects,” in Melbourne, the other
day, proved to be exactly what one might have
expected. Hebrew dealers cast their hawk eyes
over the costly array of goods and made remarks
unfit for publication.
Outram Tristram, who collaborated with
Haddon Chambers in that ghastly failure, “The
Queen of Manoa,” now edits Whitehall Review,
and he has surrounded himself with quite an
Australian staff —Chambers, Mr. and Mrs.
Patchett Martin, &c.
Inglis, M.L.A., was lately “felt” on the
question of his willingness to accept aO.M.G.-ship.
The valiant tiger-hunter scowled so dreadfully
that the topic suddenly expired, and a report
that “ something better ” was wanted was for-
warded to headquarters.
G. W. Goyder, who recently resigned the
S.A. Surveypr-Generalship, was probably more
cordially disliked by his subordinates than any
other official in S.A. He leaves behind him in
the Lands Department a son-in-law, nephew, and
two sons, all in possession of lucrative billets.
G. H. Reid, on the Address in-Reply in
N.S.W. Assembly: “You invoke the assistance
of Providence, and I must say you need it badly.”
But that very idea was, in better words and, need-
less to say, in better voice, applied by Disraeli,
years ago, to one of Gladstone’s Queen’s Speeches.
Longmore’s echo, in Vic. Parliament, used
to be an old chap named Cope, who always sat
with knees tucked to chin, and wore a yellow
bandanna necktie. One night, Longmore, loq. :
“ I ask what class of immigration the lion, member
opposite would introduce ?” “ Porpoises !” yelled
Cope.
Dr. Maloney, of West Melbourne (one of
the delegates to the parliamentary Labour Con-
ference at Sydney), has christened his son
and heir “Danton.” It is to be hoped he will
have a better fate than his godfather, who,
curiously enough, was at his perihelion just 100
years ago.
The other day a bumptious director who
intended taking passage by one of his co.’s
Murray River steamers, just reached the wharf in
time to find the vessel well out in the stream.
To show his authority and nautical knowledge he
yelled to the skipper, “Hi there, sir ! Full speed
sideways, at once!
Queen Victoria grows old. Lifts replace
stairs at various royal residences and steep
gradients on various favourite royal paths are
being heavily sloped. Why isn’t Royalty im-
mortal? There is a feeling in J. B. Pattersonian
circles that the Almighty might really manage
these things better.
Madeline Smith, accused of doing to death
Emile L’Angelier, married a doctor, who took her
to West Australia. He, as usual in small places,
had a chemist’s shop, and people were puzzled out
of their wits, because they could never see the
lady who was tickling the piano in the back
parlour. Afterwards they went to Melbourne—
and separated.
George Milner Stephen, professional
“faith-healer,” barrister-at-law and erstwhile
Acting-Governor of South Australia, is dead,
aged 82. He was a brother of the N.S.W. Ex-
Chief Justice, who has passed 90 years. Every-
thing has its compensations. Alfred Stephen
helped to hang far more men than his brother
Milner ever helped to heal.
Hangman Jones : —“ That Deeming was a
straightout cow. He screamed all night. I goes
to him in the morning to pinion ’im, and ’ee says
to me, ‘Oh, Jones, ’ave mercy.’ ‘What can I
do?’says I. “If I didn’t ’ang you the Sheriff
will, and ’ee’s a gentleman and does not care for
them jobs.’ He took a bottle of brandy the morn-
ing he ’anged, and that didn’t nerve ’im.”
A certain W.A. undertaker, named Ber-
nard Hill, recently had circulars printed and
distributed. He afterwards discovered that the
rascally printer had issued them like this :
DEATH MUST COME
to all. It is, therefore, nice to contemplate that when
all is over our sorrowing friends can go to
B. HELL,
who will furnish a price-list to meet the times.
A fawning lady of the N.S.W. “ military
set,” who had long grovelled to the Dibbs party,
seeing Parkes’stock rising in the market, visited
the old man, whom she had long neglected. “ Ah,”
said she, “poor old General Richardson—l am
afraid he is done for.” “Yes,” said Parkes
sweetly, “and I suppose that during the years
you haven’t been to see me you have been saying
all the time: ‘ Poor old Parkes— he is done for !’ ”
Lady Gertrude Stock, daughter of the late
Marquis of Queensberry, is dead. She some years
ago married a lad who had been brought up in a
London home in which she was interested, and
who had become a baker. He now lives in South
Africa. Lady Gertrude was a sister of our recent
visitor, the present Lord Queensberry (who so
adored Marion Hood that lie travelled round the
world in the wake of the Gaiety company), and of
that beautiful romancer, Lady Florence Dixie.
Premier Kingston (S.A.) has a hideously
careless style of pronunciation. “ Bona fides,”
for instance, he pronounces as if it rhymed with
“ moany tides.” Arguing a case before Way,
C.J., lately, he kept on making use of the phrase.
Nesbit, the opposing counsel, happened to talk of
dolus modus, which is lawyer’s Latin for fraud.
“ Dolus malus!” interjected Kingston, “ I don’t
believe that my learned brother knows the mean-
ing of dolus mahis.” “ Oh, yes, I do, y’Onah,”
replied Nesbit, “I mean exactly the opposite of
what Mr. Kingston calls * Bony fides.’ ”
' Dr. Quick, whose portrait appears in this
issue, is a well-known Bendigo ( Vic.) lawyer, and
an enthusiast on the subject of Australian Federa-
tion. The doctor has just visited Sydney with the
draft of a Federal Constitution, to replace the
cumbrous device of the almost-forgotten Conven-
tion, and so far his scheme, to which The Bulle-
tin purposes making detailed reference, has been
well received by the public.
Deputy Smithers, who has a 34in. chest,
has been appointed to succeed Police Magistrate
O’Malley Clarke at Sydney. Mr. Smithers is all
very well, but he ought not to have been chosen.
He is not fat enough. No lean man should be put
on the Bench. All judicial officials should be fat.
There never was a lean Judge in Australia who
was a success. Lean men are querulous—devoid
of staying-power and patience, and hopelessly
addicted to longing for dinner-time. Justice will
never have a chance until all the lean Judges and
magistrates are killed and their places supplied by
fat men sworn to rise early every morning and
rush round the park in sweaters.
Dr. QUICK, LL.D.
A wicked N.Q. paper tells this about
Scotch Mathieson, who is Chief Railway Com-
missioner at >£3ooo a year and two guineas a day
travelling extras, but canny and frugal, ye ken.
Mathieson, on one of his inspection pleasure-
trips, camped at a certain Northern pub., and
strolled into the coffee-room. It was full of jovial
bagmen, and the magnate unbent and chatted
without thought of distinction or degree. By
and by the Commissioner felt dry ; so did the
commercials. The Commissioner touched the
bell and the waiter came. “Bring me a hore-
hound,” said the Commissioner. The drummers
stared ; Mathieson drank his horehound and left.
And now he is known up North as “Solo Hore-
hound.”
Mention in The Bulletin of Nov. 4
the death of “Teddy ” Wrench, who married, en
second noccs, the widow of poor Throckmorton
(whose remains lie in an unmarked grave by the
wayside on the road to the Palmer, N.Q.), reminds
a Bulletin London correspondent of an amusing
cricket-match in which old “ Throck ” took part.
In those halcyon days there was a large American
mercantile contingent in Melbourne, jolly fellows
who made money rapidly and spent it like water.
Amongst them one of the most prosperous was the
big-hearted Throckmorton. Cricket was then all the
rage in Victoria, so the good idea occurred to him
to organise a “muff, match” for the benefit of
Melb. Hospital. The day arrived, sides were
chosen, the captains tossed for choice of innings,
and “Throck.,” who was one of them, lost, and
his men had to take the field. But how was he to
place them? He knew nothing of cricket, and his
men were no wiser. Happy thought —consult
Sam Cosstick. No sooner said than done, and
burly Sam was presently seen to emerge from the
pavilion with a case of champagne on his shoul-
ders, and proceeded to place a bottle where each
man should stand. This done, “Throck.” gave
the word of command : “ Boys, man your bottles!”
which the “ boys ” at once did, and emptied them,
too, amidst great laughter. And that is how
“ Throck.” placed his field.


Health is impossible when the blood is impure,
thick, and sluggish, or when it is thin and im-
poverished. Such conditions give rise to boils,
pimples, and other disorders. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
purities and vitalizes the blood.
o
Instantaneous photography 1
(:)
This Hand Camera,
With BALL and TUBE ATTACHMENT,
355.
Samples of Work done by this Instrument, and Illu-
strated Catalogues, dost free on application.
BAKER & ROUSE,
875 Geohoe Street, Sydney (opposite Sydney Arcade).
<2OO Goodins Street, Melbourne (next to Mullen’s).
? 40 Queen Street Brisbane.
09 Bundde Street.. Adelaide.
TKe Oldßlervd
Whisky
°f lK - e ,fE Horse
11 Cellar
WHl'
direct crom distillers.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PORE. MELLOW
ALW watubld SCOTCH HALT
Edinburgh
POLITICAL POINTS
Berry as Speaker ! Why didn fc we think
of it before?
Wise, seeing that Reid is done for, now
luffs up to Parkes again.
Speight will be for West Melbourne, they
say, at next general elections. _
A. G. Taylor says nothing of his own
intentions as a political candidate.
Beauty leads us by a single hair. So does
“loyalty.” Cecil Rhodes threatens to deal
elsewhere.” ,
Groping in history, one asks why Ministers
of Lands, both in Vic. and N.S.W., should find
it such a thirsty country ?
In N.S.W. there are 207,749 voters abso-
lutely without possessions, while 862 persons own
among them £138,200,000.
“Hi think that no man who lovfes the
Constitootion of Hingland can respect that ’Ouse
hany longer. My good God !”—Parkes.
The man who causes two blades of grass
to grow where only one grew generally
lives to be told to keep off the grass.—Ex.
An old student of the Argus knows that
the House of Commons is always an effete institu-
tion when a Liberal Government is in office.
B. R. Wise: —“N.S.W. Upper House —
a bourne from whence no Democrat ever re-
turns.” True. No Democrat ever goes there.
S.M. Herald is now openly becoming a
strong party-organ. “Mr. Wall and the
Wreckers ” is the heading to a political interview.
Melb. Age is throwing out hints to the
effect that it would gladly take over the Govern-
ment printing job, for the benefit of the working-
man.
Premier Kingston intends to cut the next
foreign Governor of S.A. down to <£sooo a year
gross. At present .£2OOO more than that sum goes
in incidentals.
Life is full of compensations —or retalia-
tions. Sheriff Oowper, of Sydney, finds that since
he attained such ill-repute as a jury-host, jurors
come more quickly to agreement.
Upon the breeze of politics
The flag of Dibbs shall float;
Its motto, while to place he sticks—
One Government, one vote.
Premier Patterson, according to the Argus>
is fond of visiting Pentridge “to study human
nature.” Thanks to J.B. and his gang, there is a
lot of “ human nature ” still outside Pentridge.
It seems they did shoot the Matabele
prisoners in cold blood—after all the numerous
denials of any act on the part of the Chartered
freebooters which could bring a blush to the cheek
of British purity.
“Abuse is not the sign of a vigorous
intellect,” says the profound Argus. Neither is
a tall hat, nor a rounded period, nor a classical
education. But a vigorous intellect is a sure sign
of abuse for the man who owns it.
In the claim for enrolment as voters,
Maoriland women have to state name, place of
abode, occupation, and condition. Under this
latter heading a smileless veteran spinster wrote
the other day : “ Uninteresting.”
There is one thing worse than “party”
government, viz., coalition government of the
kind transacted in Victoria during the boom
period. “Set a thief to catch a thief” is the
principle that partially apologises for the folly of
“ party ” legislation.
A N.S. Wales M.P., who does not propose
to contest under the new law, asks £5O for a
compilation made by him of the political opinions
of all the voters in his electorate. In most cases
the opinions are vouched for by private letters
from the qualified voters.
Australia for the Australians ! Shop signs
from corner Lonsdale-street, Melb., to corner
Spring-street, inclusive, Nos. all on same side
Assid Michael, Habib Khyal, Ellias Nahan,
Haddad Bros., A. Mousally, M. Bacash, O. Kuhn,
A. H. Schunke, Kong Goon, A. Khaled.
The Vic. Cabinet, which can afford some
score of thousands (so it is said) for entertaining
Royalty, rejects, on the ground of impecuniosity,
the proposal of N.S.W. to contribute to the cost
of replacing the old, ramshackle bridge over the
Murray at Albury with a safe and decent struc-
ture.
One of the first things enfranchised woman
should strive for is her fair share in law adminis-
tration. An alien, under trial, may claim that
half his jury shall be of his own nationality, and
there are more and greater reasons why a woman
under trial should have her sex represented in the
jury-box.
Immediately following Melb, Age’s report
_ of the Knorr execution and Premier Patterson’s
unwarrantably - condensed extract from the
woman’s confession (which, by the way, he
attempted to justify on the grounds of public
morality) appears the account of an alleged
illegal operation.
Extraordinary notification, printed on a
tin plate, and always displayed in the window of
a little Northern fruit-shop: “This Widow
Woman was defrauded by Mr. (name given),
M.L.A., of £2OO odd, through her ignorance of the
Statute of Limitations.” The M.P. is a particu-
larly well-known one.
“ Labouchere’s mind,” says the Argus,
“ long ago became so distorted that he can believe
no story till it is proved to be false.” For which
reason Labby is a Radical, of course. In connec-
tion with the Argus jibe, it is well to remember
that, in all his life, Labouchere has been “slated
but twice in the libel-courts.
According to Minister Slattery, Mr, H.
Parkes “has lived for years as a public man on
two words, ‘crisis’ and ‘unconstitutional.’”
Which is a serious mistake. It was the word
“ hunconstitooshunal ” that Parkes lived on.
It was understood that Ennobblee Man-
ning, Mayor of Sydney, had an understanding
with Parkes re the next Treasurership. Manning,
however, sticks to Dibbs and moved the Address-
in-Reply for him in N.S.W. Assembly to the
obvious and expressed disgust of Parkes, who said
hat he “ had never heard such a degraded
peech.”
Quoth Tiger Inglis, at his recent “ send-
off ” : “God help the country whose merchants
are not prosperous ! ” Quite so !—only this is
saddling the wrong horse! The unprosperous
huckster is an effect of commercial debility—not
the cause thereof. It is for his toothache we pity
the man with the swollen jaw—not for the
sympathetic tumefaction.
It was pretty to see N.S.W. Minister
Copeland—before the “ scene” on Jan. 17 —walk-
ing hand in hand up the floor of the Assembly
with millionaire Burdekin. Both short and fat;
both arrayed in whitecoats; and both looking as
jolly as sandboys. But the great Burdekin went
home early. If Copeland had done the same,
things would be different.
There is in course of compilation a volume
which will show alphabetically the names of all
Australian MsL.A. who, after election to Par-
liament, became insolvent, the sums for which
they failed, and the amounts of their realised
assets. The inference the compiler proposes to
draw is that membership of the Legislature has
financially ruined more than it has made.
The Q. Labour-party leaders seem deter-
mined to have the whole hog or nothing. They
will probably get nothing. The number of Q.
Unionists is small, after all, as compared with the
mass of population ; and to preach extremist doc-
trines is the surest road to failure. The Q. Labour-
party is badly in need of brains and discretion—
at the top. Lower down, there is plenty.
Mr, Henry Parkes,
senior, says that the
Dibbs Cabinet “ain’t
hactuated by hany of
the motives whatgovern
the conduct of heji-
cated Hinglishmen.”
This is beeausethe Min-
istry, with a majority
of one, didn’t resign
and make room for the
Ministry with a min*
ority of one.
The cable an-
nounces that 200 Cana-
dian filibusters are on
their way to Honolulu
to bounce the Ha-
waiians into restoring
the deposed Liliuoka-
lani. Canada is a
beastly loyal province,
and the loyal J. Bull
is always anxious to
interfere in otber.peo-
ple’s business, and to
deny everyone else the
liberty he claims for
himself. This time,
however, the loyal party
will almost certainly
strike a bad snag.
Hawaii is the very
home and hot-bed of
leprosy in its worst
form, and when the
Canadian’s gorgeous
uniform touches the
susceptible heart of the
Polynesian maiden she
will take him in and
breathecorruptionupon
him, and urge him to
lay his thick head on
her infected chest, and
the Canadian, if he
only stays long enough,
will end as a rotting
image on Molakai.
The vexed question as to the superior
policy of raising or lowering fares and freights in
times of depression seems settled. You must
raise them where rich passengers, or people living
in places from which they are obliged to travel
and where no rival conveyance is provided, reside,
but lower them under all other conditions.
Yic. Public Works Department has taken
the initiative in State socialism. The village
settlers at Koo-wee-rup—a recently reclaimed
swamp—having complained of the exorbitant
prices charged for provisions by the local store-
keepers, the Department promptly established
a Govt, store, selling at only a shade over whole-
sale prices. At latest, the settlers were highly
pleased at the change. _ .
It is a good thing to be a British official in
a rising colony, before the colony has obtained
representative Government. Even if he stays but
a few weeks, he is sure of a snug pension on his
return. Take the case of Wharton, the lory Bill-
blocker. As a reward for party services, Salisbury
gave him the Westralian Attorney-Generalship.
He has now returned to England, and has a life-
pension of .£4OO per annum. _
The Protestants and Catholics “Me
Katlik-you Prostan’’—having divided up the
Uganda land, the Prot. mgs. have been driving
the Mahometans into the river, with Amalekite
slaughter, and capturing “much cattle but there
are 1500 women and children on hand. ine
women must be sealed to someone, and the
children will be better off than in Knorruganda
or Makinuganda—nevertheless, they ought to
have been spiritually slain.
Sydney newspapers are inundated with
letters, purporting to be from the unemployed, and
making extraordinary claims in their interests,
but in the majority of cases written by clerks in
importing warehouses. A brief examination of
these revolutionary missives lately showed that
they all were the work of two hands and that tne
owners of the hands never did one stroke of the
work for which the unemployed are calling.
The dull, pompous commonplaceness of
Duncan Gillies came out strong when Munro rose
to move the death-warrant of his exhausted
Ministry. The little, shiny, fat man folded his
arms upon his chest, and said, “ Long expected
come at last.” That was his carefully-prepared
notion of a historical epigram. Gillies is the kind
of genius who leaves orders for “Gone, but not
forgotten,” to be inscribed upon his tombstone.
The Labour candidates at S. A. Legislative
Council April elections will be opposed by the
licensed victuallers. The latter point out that
although they supported the party for o.A.
Assembly last year, the Labour M’s.P. voted tor
Magarey, M.L.C.’s, drastic prohibition bill. Gut
of 17 Labour members in both Houses 12 are
teetotallers, and unless a greater proportion take
to drink the liquor interest knows them no more.
Dear Bulletin, —The purist who objects
to “I quite forgot all about it” is one of those
vexatious asses whose analytical faculty goes too
far, and yet not far enough. The best answer to
all such hypercritics is that the idiom of the
language requires and sanctions the use of a
host of expressions that will nob bear logical
analysis. Every time we say, “ How do you do f
we talk nonsense, but we talk English, for all
that!— Vkrbum.
Some acts of J. Butcher Patterson s,
nearly all committed during Vic. Parliamentary
recess :
Invitation to the Yorks.
Reappointment of Dr. Pearson.
Appointment of Duncan Gillies as Agent-General.
Robert Reid’s trip ’Ome (expenses provided).
M'lntyre’s trip to Maoriland (expenses provided).
The sending of two Customs officers to work up a trade
with China and Straits settlements.
Sydney Telegraph heads its report of the
late N.S.W. Foreign - trade want-of-confidence
fizzle ; “The Ministry practically defeated. They
get a majority of one.” The practical victory,
A VAST CONTRACT.
UNCLE: “ Why did you come out to Australia?”
IT: “ Mother thought it would make a man of me.”
UNCLE : “Did she? Well, she’s given us a blessed tough job, anyhow.”
according to D.T. logic, evidently lies with the
party which got a minority of one. “ Practical
defeat ” is a good, elastic term, and simply means
that the Government had a close shave. In like
manner, if a bullet grazed the hat of Mr.
Brient it would be the practical death of the
D.T.’s editor.
Dundee legend with moral for Australia.
At Dundee, three years ago, two Labour candi-
dates were returned amid universal rejoicing.
One has since died, and the other was defeated,
the other day, with terrible slaughter by an old
opponent. Reporter interviews workman : “ Was
he not a satisfactory representative?” “ Oo —ah !
He was brawly —but, ye ken, he began to wear a
topcoat and a walkin’-stick and that sort o’ thing
wiuna do.” Verily, Keir Hardie is a wise man in
his generation.
Rev. Sparling, the retiring Primitive
Methodist president, is as inconsistent as the
ruck of Primitive Methodist presidents. In one
breath he says that “the legislative stream cannot
rise higher than its source, the ballot-box and
in the next he inveighs against the sale of drink
on Sunday and the Sunday evening admission-
charge to theatres, and urges that legislation
against these things should be enforced. How
can it be enforced when the majority of electors
do not believe in its enforcement ?
It is now seriously alleged that when the
gorgeous Cecil Rho'des cabled Ids proposition that
the Cape Colony should take up a few hundred
thousands of Australian debentures to help this
country through the panic, there was not the
spectre of a red cent in the Capetown treasury,
and if the offer had been accepted, Rhodes couldn’t
have found a coin. The swashbuckler was only
bluffing, in order to impress the Imperial autho-
rities with the greatness of his nigger-infested
province, and that bluff did a lot to help the
Matabele difficulty through.
Characteristic drivel from Parkes’ latest
interview with the S.M. Herald :
“ It is 40 years since I took my seat in the Legislature
It was in 1854 that 1 was elected for the city of Sydney as
the successor of William Charles Wentworth.” . . .
When Sir Henry had concluded his denunciation of the
Government he directed the attention of the reporter to
two letters behind him, in carved oak frames, written by
Oliver Cromwell. “ Would,” he exclaimed, “ that we had
an Oliver Cromwell here to-day 1 ”
If Oliver Cromwell were alive and in Sydney,
what would he probably, do? Spit on Parkes’
K.O.M.G. star and yell, “Away with that
bauble! ”
One of Victorian Minister Richardson’s
troubles in his recent tour was a deputation of
enraged agriculturists, who said they were paying
30s. a ton too much for the carriage of their wheat,
and that this result was mainly owing to the
nefarious system of Protection. Then Richardson
looked up some statistics, and pointed out that
they were only paying 18s. in all, and he blandly
asked how 18s. a ton could be 30s. a ton too much?
Whereupon the deputation’s jaw dropped heavily,
and, with a feeble remark that it had got its
information from a Freetrade politician who
lately visited the place, it rose and went out side-
ways.
B. R. Wise now spends most of his time
in explaining away that famous manifesto, where-
in the society of which he is president pledged
itself to a land-tax of 4d. in the £. B.R.W. now
asserts that what he wants and always wanted is
a land-tax of Id. in the £ only. The shortest
explanation is that 13. R. Wise lacks the courage
of his convictions. He has vague and un-
satisfied yearnings after a vigorous land-
tax policy, and, at the same time, he hasn’t
pluck enough to break away from the old
Freetrade revenue-tariff party, which is largely
made up of big landlords, who will go in
for a 500 per cent, protective tariff, or a general
repudiation of the national liabilities, or a spell of
anarchy, rather than pay 4d. in the £ on their
big estates. Therefore, Wise is now neither land-
taxer nor revenue-tariffist, but only a lawyer who
staggers feebly between two opinions and has no
visible faith in either.
Italy, judging by present signs, is going
to be a republic before long. The country is
bankrupt, rotten, and seething with discontent.
Its frantic efforts to be a Great Power have failed
dismally. Humbert has sent his little pit '>f
.£2,000,000 to London lest it should be seized
upon by his loyal subjects, and is seriously think-
ing of bolting after it himself while he and his
head are still connected. Queen Margherita spends
her days in “prayer and tears and abject terror.”
The Treasury is empty, the banks are broke, Sicily
isin chronic revolt, the bomb-thrower is abroad, the
army is believed to be discontented, and the Pope
cackles in the senile tones of old age at the
Vatican, and fancies that the temporal power of
the church may look up again before long, after
all. He is a sanguine kind of Pontiff; if he
understood the real nature of the situation he
would probably gather up his traps and bolt for
Peru instead of-waiting till the revolutionists call
for him with a notice of ejectment and fire the
Sacred College into the street.
Campbelltovm Herald’s advice to N.S.W,
electors; —
If professing Christians will vote for and support only
men who are known to have clean characters, they will be
doing a grand work. And they will be doing what they
have not hitherto done. It has been the other way about,
otherwise we should never have had in a Government two
of the lowest and most immoral men who stood in the
colony during the time they held office. One spent all
his spare time in a house of ill-fame, while the
other entertained a questionable character belonging to a
private bar of a Castlereagh-street hqtel. Yet time after
time we have seen the clergy, church-wardens, and Sun-
day-school teachers falling over each other in their desire
to shake the hand of the debauchee.
As every traveller knows, it is harder to
get a good cigar in the interior of Australia than
a glass of decent grog, and a glass of decent grog
is about as rare as teeth in a hen. Country readers
will therefore appreciate the innovation made by
a firm of well-known Sydney tobacconists, in
granting them facilities for-obtaining a box of
smokable cigars at city prices. An advt. in
another part of this issue, concerning the estab-
lishment of Messrs. M. and H. Woolf and Co.,
326 George-street, Sydney, will cast further light
upon the above statement.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
As usual, we had a crowded attendance of buyers at
our wool sale to-day, and bidding up to a point was
very animated. The market may be quoted about equa'
to last week’s rates for all descriptions. Our catalogus
represented New England, Western, Southern, anc
Manaro wools. A few lots were passed in at prices
slightly under owner’s ideas of value, and private sales
will no doubt result. The folio ving brands are a few o)
those disposed of—WFM, from Tam worth ; A in diamond,
over Boree, from Uralla; JPG B, over Cargo, front
Orange; MMM, over Mudgee, from Mudgee; E, from
Tumut; JR, over R, from Rockley ;T. Burns, over Rock
ley, from Roskjey ; JD, over Z, over Walcha Road, from
Waloha; QM, over New England, from Uralla ; HFL, ovei
T, from Tumut; PR, scoured pieces, from Tumut; WS.
over R, washed, from Rockley.
We would advise owners to meet the market as soon as
possible, as many foreign buyers will shortly be leaving
our shoses, and, competition being lessened, must weaker
the market.
Our London agents have wired: “Sales opened with a
good attendance of buyers at prices equal to closing rate?
of last series.”
Sheepskins. -—The market is rather slack, especially foi
pelts, which sell somewhat lower. Best full-woolled, 4d
to 4|d ; medium, 3d to 3|d; pelts, Id to 2|d per lb.
Butchers’ greenskins: tops, 40d to 50d; seconds, 20d tc
30d ; pelts, Od to 18d each.
Hides were in brisk demand at our sale to-day ; best
heavies, 3d to 3Jd ; heavies, 2d to 2Jd: medium and light,
IJd to 2d ; dry, ltd to 2d per lb.
Tallow. —There was more disposition on the part ol
exporters to do business to-day, and an advance on all
shipping lines was noticeable. We quote nest mutton at
from £22 to £22 12s Od; best mixed, £2O 15s do £2l ;
trade parcels to £l9 10s per ton. r
Hair.— Horse, lOd to 13£d ; cow, 4jd to lOd ;: stump,
4id to 6Jd per lb.
Bones.— Shanks, £3 10s to £5 10s ; common, £1 10s to
£2 5s ; knuckles, £2 10s to £3 per ton.
Horns.— Large, £1 to £ll2s ; medium, 10s to £l; tips,
from 2s to 5s per 100.
Hoofs.—£2 to £3 per ton.
Bark.—ln fair demand at from £5 to £C for best, and
from £1 to £4 per ton for inferior to medium.
Sydney, 19th January, 1894.


PARISIAN RANK
‘ ' v
2>h
ò
■Sn
y Him Hu offerr of Ifaty
'suddenly Ktr/embers
faces '£ us if? gs 5 ut Vye pcc/jo
<S}\ Sprffy for
"MELBOtrRXE, Wednesday.—The new cxecu-
ti6ner and fiagellator, Roberts, who £2 •*« the
authorities every satisfaction at the cxeou*
tion of the woman Kuorr, has not yet
acquired the “ knack ” of wielding the lash,
and yesterday a couple of floggings had to be
\ postponed after the fifth stroke, as they were
not severe enough. A fancy “ stroke ” is
evidently what is required, aud # Robert# will
practice on a dummy.
dummy Jo a c^, c e °d)
-y/Mr -1 ™
Jamccy and
;L doi K ifH r re
* you food
/pry faffa
J~.au? yed&r/ty*
tyy •
■
/y.p A/n6'ef
tiasfc 'icC oofy Ttt
Oi/riqfi cf'af'a
' d
J r
9 f h
qw 6( - r ‘/y e itofrr s
I £arh<“9&
fa
aeMW
/#&*s■
London, Friday,—The Czar of Russia, |
kr addressing his courtiers, said that his i
ambition was to deserve the title i
of “The Peasant Emperor.”
op J"X
. Tvfy c \i
«<*V* A
*&*y
V?
' c'atrted ° !)
Oloj $1 "
(Jb~'
Jil
ac/i/^r/Tj
c't)ev° u 7o P - httfy
ci Cofyfof/' 4) /fpocoffo
//~S ty ud
/J ftyuc/ a pc/ fccj O. <?/
Shctj/ipQ^^
A GENERAL LOOK ROUND.


SPf/IK£KS I?ook
?R|M TG
vt 1 1 Mm
%
%
f f+aAam / /e etr ; J/ "*
4er /SerfJT/rr?'* '***• <
for~//ar/~
Ur/en J t-es/yn '*
U r . 1,. 1.. Smith. M.L.A., decline# l»
withdraw his resignation of bia membership
of the Board, as requested by
ibe Premier.
o
THIS
tvENINC
SL : R,M 0 H BY THE RfV J.S.Pfl7TfifSo/V
<; m fIP/TPI. AND L«3Di//? ,
The public executioner ** Roberts" has
also to discharge the duties of llagellutor,
and he was tried for the first time yesterday
m the latter capacity at, Penlridge. It soon
became evident to the officers on duty that
he was inexperienced and unfitted for th'fe
work. The first prisoner did not receive the>
severe punishment required, and before the
stipulated number of lashes had been ad*
ministered the Hogging was stopped.
‘ Roberta" will be given an opportunity of
fitting himself for this work, but should he
alter a further tc*it be found unsuitable,
another flagellator will be selected
JfeS J.8./*. c/ea.t-ly'heloSacl
6re'f/)i-en / leT htol'Ji et-//'
IO Co n~T/n u.e^
J, 3. 3al Ter Son Yo-u r
Jla*rx<fin<f fi excellent
and //■ 'S
//A* 3 ~///a.r )To
/ /a. </e. Ha.'t"' l /s
I a I)/- dff."
-ti^y
Mercifool C^ r>
f Mr. Walker : Hold it up that the court may
ac»* the infant
The witness complied amidst some amuse-
ment
Is that the gentleman (pointing to Mr.
Clark) whom you allege is the father 'l —Yea,
, Mr, Walker : Why tbs child is the very image \
.of him. (Laughter.) s I
,«< ' if
o
Uou
s J'"u N , a „ NT s
f the j
?>" i
0 'ilJi: .’ g
JXIRfICT
■
tePiRWDV
\
JjFEF TEA
''
t *
MELBOURNE MATTERS.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &0., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
.£lO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
vho will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
ò
Wonderful discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
i: YE LO TION.
mills Lotion cures Stvelli nr/ and Sandy Itliyht,
* Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Siyht.
Very beneficial lo those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strenythe.ns the siyht. By post, Us. per Bottle.
|3gT* Manufactured Solely by 11. A. KOSK, f'iiriidsl,
631 GEORGE c/.TKEET, SYDNEY.
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
THE
“Won’t be happy
until he |jets it ”
or
Every Enlightened Man
and Woman in the
Universe.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
RESIST CONTEMPTIBLE IMITATIONS
Sociery
Writes a lady to The Bulletin
His wife is not always the cause of the Australian
citizen’s zeal for the “dear old mother country" and the
consequent title. The “ Lady ”of one brand-new “ Sir ”
has an exaggerated horror of anything like publicity,
and some years ago, when a friend hinted at the possi-
bility of her husband being placed in a prominent posi-
tion, she indignantly denied the insinuation, and ex-
pressed her wonder that any friend of hers should hint at
such a catastrophe.
Wanted—that lady’s name. . The Bulletin only
knows of one Australasian prominent politician’s
wife who would honestly work heart and soul to
save her husband from ennobblement—and, to do
her husband justice, he is so solid a Republican as
to be in no danger of taking a bribe. “ I would
almost as soon see him dead,” remarked that
model woman, “ for he might just as well be dead
as bo ticketed ‘Sold.’ ” Nor is tjie case one of
“ sour grapes,” for the Southern lawyer-politician
—not a South Australian or a Victorian —is a
most able and steadily-rising man whom the ’Ome
people would dearly love to ticket and then
laugh at.
• » •
The ensuing municipal elections at
Sydney’s pet marine suburb, Manly, turn mainly
on the question whether the proposed sewerage
scheme shall be carried out —at any rate, that is
the ostensible issue. Those who oppose a sewerage
system on account of its expense (though, as a
matter of fact, it would not be more costly than
the present filthy and otherwise offensive plan) are
simply in the position of people who are prepared
to di'iiy themselves and their fellow-citizens soap,
on the ground that it can’t be got for nothing.
The man who won’t wash is a savage ; the man
who won’t drain his town is a beast. The contest
at Manly is simply a fight between filth and
disinfectant. As usual, a large proportion of the
Town Pump interest is on the side of filth and
Thrift.
• • • • • • •
“Are your drains all right?” enquired the new
lodger of his landlady. “Oh, you needn’t be
afraid,” replied the old lady, “ we’ve not got no
drains here.” That probably occurred at Manly.
Diains or diphtheria ? That is the question.
* * #
At the meeting of welcome to Miss Jessie
Ackerman in Sydney last week, a Mr. Ciispen
declared that “some M.P.’s are of such a type
that we could not allow them to cross the thres-
THE PEACEMAKER.
TOMMY SMALLFATHER: “Say, Bill, does your father ever kick your mother
about?”
BILL BIOSIRE: “No; does yours?”
TOMMY S.: “No; but mother thumps dad a lot, and as you and me is good
pals, I thort I’d ask yer to lend us your ole man to whack
mother.”
hold of our homes.” Which sounds very noble ;
but it doesn’t amount to much, as members of
that sort never want to cross the thresholds of
ginger-beer families.
A comparison of Sydney Daily Tele
graph’s article on the execution of Frances Knorr
and its articles goading on the brutal massacre of
the Mount Rennie _ boys illustrates how, in jour-
nalism as in politics, nimble minds may jump
from side to side of the widest ethioal chasms,
meeting the public after each jump with the faces
of men who act from deep and lasting convictions.
• • *
. “ The Marquis of Lome suggested that decorations
similar to the Star of India he provided, to he known as
the Star of Australasia and the Star of Canada.”— Cable.
Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
Dimming Southern Cross’s lustre,
Whilst across the seas afar
Minions of the Monarch muster.
Tinkle, joy-bells, gaily tinkle !
Beads of loyal sweat besprinkle
Beetled brows. O ! twinkle, twinkle,
Twinkle little star!
Twinkle, twinkle, gew-gaw small,
Dazzle eyes which booze is blearing;
Shine on legislators all
Who delight in “ bursts of cheering. '*
Tinkle, joy-bells ! Here’s a wrinkle
That we fondly hope and think’ll
Suit the Queen. O ! twinkle, twinkle,
Twinlde little star !
* • #
Coroner Ghoul’s violent verbal assault on
the witness Birtles, for telling unpleasant-sound-
ing truths upon oath concerning his relations with
the drowned girl Hannah M’Lennan, and thereby
blackening the character of the deceased, presents
yet another aspect. In her farewell letter—the
romantic type of suicide always leaves a farewell
letter—the girl (she was not an unsophisticated
girl, for she had been married before she
became acquainted with Birtles) wrote at
full length a damning indictment of Birtles for
having deceived her according to the usual fashion.
Everybody believes the pathetic letter of the
girl whose remains are lying at the Morgue
as a sad, though irrelevant evidence of her truth-
fulness, therefore if Birtles had denied the charge
brought against him he would have been jumped
on, not only by Coroner Ghoul, but by society at
large, as a man who was feebly trying to shield
his own repute by accusing a dead girl of gratuitous
falsehood. Also, he would possibly have been
run in for perjury, and in any case be would have
been contradicting a lady—which is bad manners,
to say the least of it. Even if lying is a virtue,
no man is expected to lie against a certainty, any
more than he is expected to bet on it.
* • «
“ A.8.C.” of the S.M. Herald, aggrieved
at the mental composure exhibited by the lately-
executed Mrs. Knorr, asserts that the assurances
of religion and the stimulations of brandy lead to
exactly the same mental condition. A philosophic,
but dangerous, line of speculation for a money-
making proprietary.
• » •
The most interesting Melb. divorce-case of
this season had its beginnings in a romantic
marriage of quite recent date. It is stated that
the girl eloped, in Sydney, letting herself down
from a third-storey window at night by a rope
of the bed-clothes.
# # «
Another “sign
of the times.” Any
Saturday now Mel b-
onrne Age pub-
lishes five or six
aclvts. from clergy-
inen, announcing
that they perform
marriages cheaply,
expeditiously,
safely, without pub-
licity, and at any
hour. Two of them
announce that there
is “ no charge what-
ever to needy
people.” One states
that he is a minister
“of good standing,”
that he only charges
£l, and provides
witnesses himself,
and that lie will per-
form the ceremony
without notice at
his office, his pri-
vate residence, his
church, or anywhere
else; also, “trams
pass end of street.”
Another is a “ fully-
accredited minis-
ter,” and can be
arranged with at
any time, day or
night. A third an-
nounces that he is
a “fully ordained
clergyman.” The
next one only
charges 10s. 6d.,
and supplies wed-
ding-rings at ss. 6d.
each, while yet an-
other does it “any-
where ” —balloon or
gaol evidently in-
cluded for 10s.,
“including every-
thing.” Presently
the ss. clergyman
and the two-and-
six - penny parson
will appear on the
scene, and after that
the people in Melb-
ourne will probably
find that they are
too poor to be married at all.
It is creditable to Yictoiia that the “Alert
Wreck Relief Fund ” speedily, though unosten-
tatiously, caught up the Age “National” sub-
scription, which had a few days start. The news-
paper deserved to have a “ bad collection ” —to
use a religious term —because of its want of tact.
The Age should have arranged to send round a
magnanimous hat for Spciyht on the condition
that the Argus made a brotherly appeal for Mr.
D. Syme. Then the public might have been lured
into fueling truly sorry for both parties.
The fact that the now-hanged Mrs. Knorr
chose “ Gladys ” as a name for her baby will pro-
bably turn the tide again In favour of plain
“Susan” and “Jane” as girl nomenclature. At
present no mother who respects herself will ever
call her girl baby by any less romantic name than
“Beryl,” or “Phyllis,” or “Doris.” Conse-
quently, these names have drifted right down to
the gutter.*
# * •
Dear Bulletin, —lie the man with the
soundless footfall. An old V. D.L, ex-conviot
shoemaker, who had seen criminal life in all its
varieties, told me that when a thief, an assigned
servant, or a man who wanted to be “ unknown,”
gave him orders for shoes they were invariably of
the “ silent ” sort, made thus : the sole some inch
or so shorter than tiie upper leather, the latter,
with the toes of the foot well up, projecting over.
“No one,” he said, “could hear the approach of a
man wearing shoes thus made.”—Bush Lawyer.
“ Advertise, my
dear fellow; advertis-
ing is the only means
of success; modest
merit starves in a
garret; pushing self-
assertion builds itself
marble halls and fares
sumptuously every
day,” writes Mrs.
Alexander. She is
right. For example,
if you and your best
girl want a park-seat
which is partly occu-
pied by another
couple, don’t wait
about till they go
away. If you wait,
they will never go
away. Just march
right up and sit down
alongside them. They
will look very sour,
but they’ll soon
“clear.” Therein is
the whole philosophy
of getting on in the
world.
• * *
Some church
people at Newcastle,
N.S. W., were reeen tly
in want of a block of
land belonging to the
A. A. Co. They
couldn’t raise the
price, but made an
offer, duly forwarded
by the Australian
manager to London.
By return mail were
sent the deeds of the
land as a free gift.
The Southern Cross (a Melb. religious
journal) has called upon Mr. Butler (of Sargood,
Butler and Nichol) to renounce the .£30,000
prize which he won in the Queensland Building
Society lottery. By accepting this huge windfall
in lieu of the rightful wages of sin—which is a
blank—the softgoods magnate is said to be luring
his own employes and young men in general to
destruction. Therefore, the Southern Cross
requests Mr. Butler to blot out his stroke of luck
and cast the .£30,000 prize ad rift upon an admiring
world, in which case the godly periodical will
“ recoup him the £lO he invested in this shame-
less speculation.” Butler, up to now, has remained
obdurate, but the spirited offer made by the
Southern Cross is bearing good fruit. A syndi-
cate of Adelaide commercials invested £2O in the
aforesaid lottery—result, one prize of £lO. On
the terms held out to Mr. Butler they are pre-
pared to repent at large and set a good example.
The syndicate despise their £lO prize now that
they have won it. With humble and contrite
hearts they ask to be recouped and cleansed of the
indiscretion.
# * »
Art in N.S.W. A pretty well-known
picture, by a well-known Sydney artist, was sold,
the other day in Sydney, for 4s. 6d. At the same
sale-rooms water-colours by fairly good painters
were disposed of at from Is. 3d. to 2s. 6d. each.
• * »
The Military Tournament, which was held
for alleged charitable purposes at Moore Park,
Sydney, three months ago, winds up, accord-
ing to a published statement, in abject
fashion. The takings were £1367 odd, and the
balance left for charities is something like £l2.
Among other riotous items of expense wore £476
for prizes; rent, £204; preparing ground, £125;
printing and stationery, £271; catering, &c,,
£275. In any decently-managed show the right
of catering is sold for a considerable sum, but the
Tournament committee, instead of selling it, seem
to have paid someone to take the thing away.
Also it is solemnly alleged that two firms offered
to supply printing and stationery free, condition-
ally on being allowed the sole right to sell pro-
grammes, and the offer was loftily declined as
beneath the dignity of the full-blown officer.
However that may be, the show that professes to
be for charitable purposes, and which pans out for
£l2 of charity and £1355 worth of military pomp
and gorgeousness, is a show that travels upon
false pretences. Next time the gorgeous officers
had better engage Goodman or Rickards to run
their show on business principles, or else sell the
whole tournament for a lump sum to the Coogee
Aquarium man.
• • «
Baby-fanning will never be an absolutely
safe business until the lady who runs the show
learns to eat the infants.
« * •
Up to last Saturday the Speight testi-
monial was still keeping well ahead of the Syme
testimonial, the figures being : Speight, £749 195.;
Syme, £671 13s. But the Age still points out
that its testimonial proves conclusively that the
great soul of the country is with it, and whoops
up the Subscriptions with the energy of a man
urging a lame bullock uphill in a dry country.
# # •
Dear Bulletin, —In all the “philo-
sophies ’’printed, I have seen none as good as the
pout Gordon’s. Send it round again :
Lifo la mostly froth and bubble ;
Two things stand like stone—
Kindness in another’s trouble,
Courage In your own.
—Yours, A.
# • •
Young llev. Dry man Spinifex did all he
could to oust wealthy Miss Barbwire from her
affection for Mr. Amadeus, but had to perform
the wedding, when he said : “ Wilt thou have this
man to be thy husband ?”
MISTAKEN,
Professional ; “ Though I say it my-
self, as shouldn’t, there ain’t a
better bare-backed rider than my
wife.”
Eriend : “She’s not riding bare-
backed now.”
Professional: “Ain’t she? She cuts
her dresses as low as the law will
let her.”
“Lady Monro” was doing Hunter-street,
Newcastle, recently, where site met a mild-looking
youth balancing liimself on one leg at a boot-
black’s stand. He was a good specimen of the
summer dude —soft felt hat parted in the middle,
with a pudding-cloth wound round it; a bit of
glass in his eye; vest missing; p'enty of white
shirt showing ; and a red silk belly-band, in lieu
of braces, folded, stage-pirate-like, round the top
of white duck*pants— those stiff canvas things that
small boys “ quack ” at. His get-up appeared to
annoy her ladyship, who lowered herhead, making
a “ keb ” at him, goat-fashion, landed her flat-
tened, greasy, black bonnet somewhere about his
rits, and knocked him off his perch. Then she
planted her own foot thereon, and ordered a shine
for the big toe peeping out of her boot. When
Johnnie had gathered himself together and fixed
the window in his eye, he feebly remonstrated
with her in his own drawling fashion. My lady
was astonished; she “didn’t know it was alive,”
she said. Then, reaching out, she took from his
unresisting hand a bag of cherries, and zigzagged
down the street to give another entertainment.
The fun was that, being a new-ehum, the gentle-
man was unaware that he had been battered about
by a dilapidated scion of true nobility from dear
old England, and cited the incident at length, as
an awful example of beastly colonial manners.
• • #
Quong Tart’s fellow-countrymen indig-
nantly condemn his conduct in abetting the anti-
opium crusade in Sydney. They regard the
crusade as springing from racial antipathy more
than from an intelligent knowledge of the uses of
the drug, and the sight of Tart in the vanguard
makes them bite their pig tails.
* * ♦
Dear Bulletin, —Dr, Ferriss’ statements
before the Indian Opium Commission will sur-
prise nobody who has dwelt where opium-smoking
is endemic. There is more opium per head used
in Singapore than in any other place out of China;
yet, during a three years’ residence, I never saw
anything approaching the “opium-wreck” we
hear so much about. The drug may possibly
damage the white man more than the yellow, but,
moderately used, it does the Chow no injury that
I could discover. The “immoderate-use” argu-
ment applies no more to opium than to tobacco—
or, for that matter, to tea —the excessive use of
which is simply murderous.—Equatorial.
• * «
Evidence in a Melb. theatrical mainten-
ance case; “Witness was present when the child
ANOTHER VIEW OF IT.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In a cannibal isle a cannibal king
With his cannibal suite were banqueting
On babies pickled and babies fried,
And child’s head stewed with the brains inside,
And babies roasted ; the choicest course
Was babies served up with oyster sauce.
And as he toyed with a “ bit of wing,”
The chief remarked to the gobbling king :
“They’ve hanged, I’ve heard, down in Melbourne
town
A woman of somewhat wide renown.
Her game, it seems, till by hanging marred,
Was burying kids in her own backyard.”
The king remarked : “ Serve her right, I say,
For squandering food in that sinful way.”
ZEPH.


feelings of the husband in the flesh when ho
The Akgus critics will now see where young Aua-
alia got his twang from.
What will be the fate of Roberts ?
Paling & Co.’s
XMAS ANNUAL!
Just Published. No. 9.
Price, Is. Full Music Size. Artistic Title Page.
Contents:
AFTER THE HALL (The great American success)
Sung by Miss Mattie Allan (Jubilee Singers) and
Miss Maggie Moore.
THERE’S NO ONE LIKE MOTHER TO ME
Popular Christy Song
DEAR LITTLE JESSIE
Sung by Mr. Harry Clay (Rickards’ Co.)
THE LETTER THAT NEVER CAME
Sung by Mr. John Lindsay (Tivoli Co.)
LOVE’S FIRST WHISPER (A pretty Ballad)
Sung by Miss Nellie Stewart.
OSBORNE QUADRILLES (of world wide popularity)
PHCEBE MORBLL (“ I Had a Dream”)
Pathetic English Ballad.
SOUTHERN CROSS MAZURKA
By Composer of “Of the Past” and “After the Ball”
Waltzes.
WHERE IS MY BOY TO-NIGHT?
Minstrel Song with Chorus.
HEARTS AND HOMES (Blockley’s well-known Ballad)
TIPPERARY CHRISTENING (Irish Comic Song)
GOOD-BYE (Sweet Little Ballad)
MINUET DON GIOVANNI
(Danced in Romeo and Juliet)
SUNSHINE WILL COMB AGAIN
Vocal Waltz with Yodel (Miss Maggie Moore’s Latest
Success).
Duet “IL TROVATORE,” known as “Home to our
Mountains."
OCEAN MEMORIES WALTZ, Pretty and Fascinating
(Written specially for Paling and Co.
"W". XX. Co. (Ltd.\
Piano, Groan and Music Warkiiousg,
338 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY;
Ami at Newcastle, Brisbane and Toowoomba.
horn and wired to defendant informing him
of A the°hftppy eveot-'’ Th. child »
“ Happy event ” is good.
# •
Melbourne J.P- fco plain tiff, smng j ( > r
maintenance for an iUeg. tun ate child : Hold t
uf, that the court “,„1
the very o''''-' 1 , guineas costs, surety
Wheretlda kind of evidence has power in court is
«™try fo> m *" who
has a pious brother.
# *
A Melbourne butcher was fined, last week,
for riding with two other men, on top of a load of
mhat Perhaps they were only trying to make
the steaks tender.
* #
In an unproved case of assault (Q.)
upon a girl of 13, the prisoner, a Salvation Harmy
light, was alleged to have said, “ Don t tell your
mother, or I will be put in gaol and probably
hung and then I couldn’t preach any more.’
But. why not? Mrs. Knorr has not ceased to
sing hymns, pne may reasonably hope.
# # #
Hobart Exhibition is to be withheld until
the end of the year, so as to give George and May
a chance to “be present at the inaugural cere-
monies.” The blatant stupidity of Premier Pat-
terson has infected the whole hemisphere. Every
do°- and poultry show and bush race-meeting
will be getting itself indefinitely postponed against
the joyful visit of a royal pair who don’t dream,
and never dreamt, and never will dream of
coming. If they do so dream it is a horrible night-
mare.
# « *
A Chinaman, being consigned to Albury
gaol for trying to evade the poll-tax, soon sickened
and died of typhoid fever, a disease almost un-
known to Chows in their naturally filthy state.
Pigs, they say, develope small-pox if frequently
washed.
* » *
Cheerful item from Daylesford Advocate
(Vic.):-
Soarcity of money has forced many country people to
the old-fashioned system of barter. Daylesford butchers
have been exchanging carcases of pigs and sheep for
chaff; drapers have been giving blankets and suits for
firewood, and clergymen have even performed the cere-
mony of marriage in exchange for a stated quantity of
gravel and garden-manure.
* # ft
Plucky young Crawcour, of Williamstown,
died bravely fighting for the pawnbrokery, but
one would much rather have seen him spared,
while the loot went. The funeral was tremendous,
and was the only case in which a religious service
at the synagogue has thrilled Melbourne.
# # •
In Parkes (N.S.W.) recently a married
couple grew simultaneously tired of one another.
An obliging friend took the wife home and gave a
horse, cart and harness to boot. The husband
harnessed the horse to the cart, and is travelling
in search of another partner. Note the name of
the place where these things happen—Parkes !
You never heard of anything like that at Glad-
stone.
* * #
Dear Bulletin, —Since Government will
keep on flogging, why not, with a view to revenue,
tike the floggees’ yells down in the phonograph,
and then place the instrument in convenient
spots, with a notice affixed something like this : —•
“Put a penny in the slot and hear Maguire at the
triangles. Three yells and a groan for one penny.
Splendid assortment of curses, groans, screams,
howls and prayers, etc. Very shrill. Purveyors
to His Excellency Sir R. Duff,” etc., etc. —
Boiling Billy.
# * *
In a little Monaro township, Sunday ser-
vice is conducted by a local land-agent, who acts
as lay-reader. One member of the church, with
a weakness for old clothes and plenty of tobacco
on “the Lord’s Day,” excuses himself from attend-
ing service upon the ground that a civil servant is
not a fit person to conduct it, as “ A man cannot
serve God and the Government too.”
* « *
A Sydney lady is in need of a little
assistance. She wants to write a novel, and is
“quite sure that if someone would just arrange
the plot, write up the scenery and arrange the
characters, she could manage the conversations
quite easily.” A most womanly woman.
* # *
Says N.S.W. grog-secretary Bevill: “Pros-
perity is drink’s twin brother.” Yes, sir ; and so
is adversity. We drink because it is a hot day.
We drink because it is a cold day. We drink
when we feel particularly well, and also when we
feel particularly ill. -
# * •
Listen, ye boomers of Melbourne !
IjiOOTSCRAY. Houses from 2s. weekly. ,
Estate Agent, Buckley-st.
YAUR Men’s Tweed Suits at 19s. 6d., unequalled, wear
guaranteed. Clothing Co., King-st.
QUITS to Measure, weekly terms ; communicate,
° traveller will call. Bourke-st. (city.)
# # ft
In Auckland (M.L.), a young man is taking
all the legal proceedings he can get hold of, his
grievance being that his wife, aged 21, has eloped
with his father, aged 68. It was probably the
beautiful shine of the old man’s bald head which
led her astray.
» * •
For a reportership on a Melb. suburban
journal the other day there were 180 applications !
Few Brisbane reporters, by the way, now get over
£2 a week.
# • •
A much-advertised Adelaide civil servant
lias been photographed with the members of Gov.
Kintore’s family and suite. Well, he has been
most obliging to His Ex., and gratitude is a holy
thing.
# # *
A free-and-easy damsel, writing in Pall
Mall Gazette on Chinese dressmakers in Japan,
artlessly remarks :
He (the Chow person), when I was drinking my cup of
coffee in bed, appeared in answer to my summons. It
was far from a pleasant feeling, and distinctly creepy,
having his long, highly-polished, aristocratic nails wan-
dering over my neck and arms, with bird-like talons at
least an inch long.
Woman in want of a dress will do, or endure, any-
thing.
ft * •
A Sydney lady has invented a new variety
of the “late-lamented” business. Her second
husband being absent when the photographer
came to “take” their residence, she hung up
conspicuously on the front verandah-post an
enlarged, framed portrait of her first husband,
posed herself alongside, and had the photo, taken!
saw the result must have been akin to those
experienced by the first husband when, from the
shades of the Unknown, lie saw his vacant place
filled a few mbffths after his arrival there.
How is it that no man ever hangs up in
his second, wife’s house the portrait of his first
wife ; whereas it is quite an exceptional thing not
to find the portrait of a woman’s first husband
hung conspicuously in the house of her second
husband ? Is it that women are so much more
tasteful than men ? Or so much more enduringly
affectionate?
• « •
The S.A. Government Gazette, mis-
printing “ kangaroo ” for “emu,” solemnly warns
the public against appropriating kangaroo eggs.
* » •
Why is it considered a greater and nobler
act to save an intending-suicide from drowning
than to give a meal to a starving man ?
« « •
Every woman believes she would make a
particularly handsome young man in a top-hat.
« ft «
A Beech worth (Vic.) man was reported
missing, and a long search for him was made,
darns dragged, and holes explored, ere he was
found. To the police belongs the honour of his
discovery—he was serving a sentence in the local
gaol.
# # #
Dear Bulletin,— A man—the happy
daddy of a large family—living within sight of
my office window, always keeps a pet monkey.
One died recently, but he purchased another
almost immediately. I had some idle curiosity as
to the utility of the animal, till I saw it operating
in a business-like and very natural manner on the
heads of his urchins. This may contain a valuable
tip to the heads of families, and the hairy man of
Samoa. —Yours, Snell. P.S. — A school-master
tells me no family should be without one. —S.
* » *
Sydney Municipal Council declined the
proffered portrait of a deceased alderman, fearing
lest a precedent being thus established the Town
Hall would be filled with the pictures of dead
aldermen, and be thus converted into a chamber
of horrors. Sufficient unto the chamber are the
live horrors thereof.
# # #
At Brunswick (Melb.) the other day a lady
sued another lady for 30s. money owing for
“washing and laying out” the corpse of the
latter’s husband. The gruesome case was dis-
missed.
A latter-day Guy Fawxes train refuses to light.
S. M. Herald advfc. :
TfiOß SALE, reasonable, valuable Autographs of
J- English celebrities. Address Loudon, Herald
Office.
Evidently he has been selling off again.
* * *
It got abroad lately that an important
Gippsland railway-station would be placed in
charge of a lady. The people were all up in arms
and a powerful deputation waited on the Minister,
who told them not to yell before they wore hurt.
However, she took charge and has proved a
brilliant success. She could not have become so
successful without the enthusiastic help of her
opponents.
* « #
At the beginning of the recent Xmas
vacation, 13 male and female teachers arrived in
Sydney, bag and baggage, from Broken Hill, with
the avowed intention never to return to that
thirsty district. They spent most of their month’s
holiday at the Department of Public Instruction,
beseeching for removal to some other country
town. There is always a mild rebellion among
country teachers, after vacations, against returning
to the out-back schools —but Broken Hill is their
particular horror. Teachers—unmarried female
ones especially —regard an appointment up that
way as a thing to be abjured by all possible
means; and those already there move heaven and
earth to get away. The particular consignment
aforesaid clubbed together and hired railway
carriages from Broken Hill to Sydney, thereby
saving about .£3 each. It costs the greater part
of a month’s cheque to visit Sydney from Broken
Hill, beside the loss of a week on the return trip.
Appointments Broken Hill way carry a slight
increase of salary, but the extra local cost of living
there more than balances the bonus. To all these
grievances lady teachers add an extra one. The
fine red dust—the principal component of the
atmosphere at Broken Hill—spoils linen, and they
have to wear turkey-red underclothing. This
objection is inexplicable, for turkey twill is at
least as comfortable as linen, and looks don’t
count, for nobody sees. Broken Hill is the N.S.W.
Dept, of Public Instructions, bogey-man. Many
a giddy teacher has been frightened into sobriety
by the mere threat of an appointment there.
* # ft
Andrew Tuer gives examples of cockney
pronunciation in St. James’ Budget :
“Ow kin yer sy so?”
“ Wot chur, mite?"
“Gotch tickit?”
“ Labs tahm ah seed yer.”
“ Wown’t choo sid day-own ?”
“Oo are you a-pushin’ ov?”
“Owzh yaw mother ?”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ivill he taken of communications which arnv
at this office insufficiently stamped. A(tm« ana
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Vince”; Will keep for special occasion......
“ W.H.0.” : Album verses 0n1y... “ J.A.” ; Promising ;
but interest too slight “T.A.E.” [M.L.): Sorry un-
suitable ; that phase of subject stale..... JS.E.A.^.
Worthless....” M.R.” (Gore, M.L.): Dull •
Thanks “Gray Heavystone ” : Thanks....- Scotty
the W.” : Both acceptable “F.H.W.”: Burnt.....
Will use ..“G.E.L.”: Promising; part good
....“The Cynic”: Clever, but slight interest. Will keep
on chance “ Charley ” of insufficient
interest; “Jester” crude, but good enough H.
Rock”: A stale, ordinary adultery.....“ Clarence ;
No ;it doesn’t meet our approval.... “Felix Sundowner :
Evolution, not revolution “ F. 0.5.” : Everything
yawned when your screed was read —even the waste-
basket “ Advocate ” : Not quite up to mark ... The
Jonah”: Fair idea; rough work. Will try and use....
“S.W.S.”: Strong moral; weak yarn “ J.D. (Tas.):
Both acceptable....“ W.A.P." (Charters Towers): Brief,
to baldness. The idea needs fine handling.... “Yarrwah :
“ Ten-star” under-proof “ F.R.” (Melb.): Thanks ...
“ Boko": “Ryan” not bright enough; will try and use
others “R. Ranger” : Your poem reads like a patent
medicine advt “J. Applethwaite ” : May use ; slight
interest....“ J. D. Nelson”: Is it tact or fiction?....
“ Jack ” (Newcastle): Too often done before. We pretty
well knew the end after the second line “0. Senior :
If the iceberg towered 300 ft. out of the water it was
altogether 900 ft. high. Ice floats a third out of water.
.... “ G.H.W.” : Some merit, but (1) not new ; (2) rather
crude ; (3) coarse climax “J.A.E.”: The worst and
most virulent type of bush poetry—“M. G. Jenu :
Par. used ; tale du11.... “ Fabian ”: A stale “ splash. .. .
“ H.C.” (Wellington) ; You rhyme “ dawm ” and “ mom
on “ cliffs where moss is lain.” “ T.V.S.” : Not new or
strong enough... “E.A.D.”; “Conway” gone over to
the great majority “The Pauper”: Too little pains
taken....“ Torn Bobbin”; Is it true? Give names and
dates “ Como”; May use “ Nardoo ” (Toowoomba):
AB2 ghost. Send him to the Brisbane Spook Society....
“L.M.M.”: Old motive; final jingles unpleasant....
“E. E. Mackersey ” : Nothing unusual in it. It is the
rule for a lady professional to use her maiden name after
marriage so that she may not lose the prestige of her
early successes. Thus Mrs. Max Rows appears as Miss
Fiances Saville, and Mrs. Frank Gardiner as Miss Carrie
Swain. In America the former might call herself Prances
Saville Rown, and the latter Carrie Swain Gardiner —an
adaptation of the French fashion. Mrs. Kendall calls her-
self Madge Robertson Kendall “Regular Reader”:
(I) You can get cocoanuts any time of the year-even in
Sydney. (2) A few hundreds are occasionally sold in
Sydney to fruit dealers only. The dried nut (copra) is
shipped in large quantities to Europe for oil-making—
price in Sydney about 810 per ton— “ A.M.": One used.
Saville item anticipated... “ G.P.8.” (W.): It wasprinted
some lime ag0....“ Scuttled ” : It should have been
300,000,000....“ Walter S.” : It is so given in the dic-
tionary. However, we remember your criticism
“E.N.D.” (Tas.): Good verse, but bad libel. Some Tas-
manian people are very unsophisticated — “ Boko ”
(W.A.): Dangerous to have on the premises such spiteful
things. Please send them elsewhere "J.M.K.”; We
don’t print solemn announcements of such affairs. Send
something of interest.. .“H.S.": Thanks. [Many replies
held over].
In 1892, Victoria made 1,554,130 gallons
wine, and shipped 222,418 gallons ; S.A. produced
913,107 gallons, and exported 325,035 gallons;
whilst N.S.W. made 801,835 gallons, and exported
27,856 gallons.
Casey’s Hotel, corner George and Liver-
pool streets, Sydney, was pulled down the other
day, and the material sold. A man bought a
single girder for 6s. Last week, when he under-
took to reduce it, he noticed an old tin-plate tacked
on one face, and on removing it withdrew from this
“safe deposit” a bundle of old B.N.S.W, and
Commercial Bank notes amounting to .£IOOO.
Prof. Lornbroso, the Italian specialist on
crime, has just completed a work on “Criminal
Woman,” a companion to his epoch-making book
on “Criminal Man,” He says that immoral or
criminal women are shorter in the arms, longer in
the hands and feet, heavier in the body, smaller in
the head, larger in the face, and darker in the
hair and eyes than normal women. Prostitution
he regards as identical with criminality. Tattoo-
ing -is an infallible indication of criminal ten-
dencies.
The girls’ new craze, this turning of rings
on the fingers of young men, is thus explained :
If a young lady meets a young man with a ring
on his finger, she is to turn the ring two or three
times. Then with another man the same thing,
and so on until she has turned rings to the extent
of about twenty-four times. Then the next thing
to do is to look for a married person, male or female,
wearing a marriage-ring. This ring she is to turn
twice, and the next man she shakes hands with
will be her husband.
Every Victorian hangman has been
blighted by his billet. The first, old “Jack
Harris,” was threatened with death for hanging
the murderers of John Price, and cleared out, too
frightened to stay and hang anyone. His
successor, Bamford, had his eye knocked out in a
row in which he was attacked because he was
what he was. Gately, who followed, led a dog’s
life, miserable in gaol and the victim of the
fiendish torments of larrikins when out. He
“cleared” rather than hang Ned Kelly, whose
friends threatened the executioner with dire
vengeance. Upjohn, however, performed the job,
and got knocked down immediately after. How
it happened was in this wise. Some prisoner-
wardsmen were brought out of their cells just after
the execution to “clean up.” One of these walked
straight up to Upjohn, and planted a straight-
frorn-the-shoulder staggerer in the hangman’s face,
with the remark : “Take that, you ——, for hang-
ing Ned Kelly !” Last on the list is Jones.
ó
“ Declared before me at Leeds this 1
“25th day of January, 1892. I
(Signed) Ale. Cooke, J. P. (
“ Ex-Mayor of Leeds.” J
(Signed)
Jane Calap.
The public may remember the account of Mrs
Mills’ illness and recovery, published some time
ago. We are glad that Mrs. Calap heard of it and
went straight to that lady herself for the infor-
mation she wanted. The visit resulted just as
might have been expected. Both our good friends
had suffered from the same disease, indigestion
and dyspepsia, and the remedy which cured in the
first case was equally successful in that of her
neighbour. No wonder Mrs. Calap had lost
all faith in physic, and if Mother Seigel’s Syrup
were “ physic,” we should not look for people to
have faith in it either. But it is a remedy, not
“ physic.” Itdoesn’t upset and disgust, it soothes
and heals. Men fall ill, to be sure, but women bear
most of the pain in this sad world, and when once
acquainted they and “ Mother Seigel” are “ever
the best of friends,” like Joe and Pip in Dickens’
story.


BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
ò
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOR
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
BRIQUET FOIX
(POCKET LAMP;.
A Splendid Success. Gives an Instantaneous
Light produced by Ingenious Friction.
Price about One and a-Half Francs.
Representatives Wanted in Australia.
(V Write Mangey, Lode, SWITZEKLANU.
A 52
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorea, Ac., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by J. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Uarlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
I
Business Announcements.
Best for (lie Wearied Soles by trying
Hi L L I S’ S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
Carriage Free by Rail or Post.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
liim
e/ v
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
were you are sure to get a fit. The propri etor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES FOR CASH,
Paying Trainage or Postage to Any Part of the Australian
Colonies.
No matter how far back in the interior you may reside,
we post the boots DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR. ELLIS'S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of W’hich fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample tread,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY—they are a “going con-
cern” from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw” or blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items: Qent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid, 17s fid ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, sqjes wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s fid ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s fid ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s fid ; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s fid ; Primest French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s fid, Tops for ditto, 12s fid ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s fid (worth i‘3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s fid; Three-quarter ditto, 26s fid ; Half ditto,
23s fid ; Porpoise Balmorals, wide wells, 22s fid.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S FOOT GEAR
At Equally Reasonable Rates.
SEND FOB CATALOGUE (post free).
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT.
For a FEW WEEKS ONLY.
A Guinea’s Worth
FOR—
13s. 6d.
Cut this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments and Remittance of 13s.
6d., when you yill have
mailed to you (posl/ree)
n pair of those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow Qt
wide
toes.
D.US’I
/COUPON |
yCUfNEfI S
C-'fyfy L moral
/TP
When sending, mention this paper
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
“The two pairs of boots which we had from you have
been constantly worn for months. You appear to use
prime leather. The wear has been phenomenal.
“GEORGE EARNQEY, Roads Office, Deniliquin.”
“ 1 am highly pleased with your boots, and you have
fitted me to a T.
“H. R. COTTAR, Tarella, Wilcannia.”
“The boots (both pairs) fit splendidly, and give general
satisfaction.
“GEO. QUEST, Jun., The Rock, Boggabri,”
TESTIMONIALS ALSO FROM
His Excellency THE EARL OP JERSEY, G.C.M.Q.
R. Capel, Esq., Gorian, Narrabri
Albert Belson, Esq., Wee Waa
Ewen Cameron, Esq., Tori, Balranald
Right Rev. Dr. Murray, Bishop of Maitland
H. R. Cotton, Esq., Tarella, Wilcannia
H. R. Clarke, Esq., Cobran, Deniliquin
A. Davidson, Esq., Dunlop Station, Louth
Wm. Bayes, Esq., Goodooga
F. R. Divall, Esq., Burban, Brewarrina
Geo. Quest, Esq., The Rock, Boggabri
Miss Rowling, Courthouse, Balranald
Thomas Dickson, Esq., Postmaster, Quirindi
Geo. Earngey, Esq., Roads Office, Deniliquin
C. Gwydir, Esq., Gundablui, Mogil Mogil
R. W. Chase, Esq., Llanillo, Walgett
A. Davis, Esq., Culpotaro, Hay
Will. Dunlop, Esq., Wellbondongah, Moree
H. Wilkins, Esq., H.M. Gaol, Wentworth
P. Whiteacre, Esq., Midkin, Moree
Special Notice 1 Every customer spending £1 -will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 102 Gifts to
the value of
£IOO One Hundred Pounds! £lOO
Ist Prize, 20 sovs.; 2nd, value £10; 3rd, £5; 40 prizes
£1 each; 12, 15s. each; 20, 10s. each; 24, ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
T. E. ELLIS,
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Carter ft Co?
ô
XhIAUIABIiE-
NON REVERSIBLE
rpms Ingeniously Constructed KlLLlAJtlk
- 1 - TABLE! is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin.
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation
The PRICES—2S to dii’nca*, i nclude cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
au ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
532 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
| Amusements.
ORIOBZET.
VICTORIA v. MS. WALES.
62nd INTERCOLONIAL MATCH.
ASSOCIATION GEOUND
(SYDNEY)
26th, 27th, 29th, 30th JANUARY.
All the Leading Cricketers Playing.
JgOYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY.
Great Easter Exhibition.
21 TO 27 MARCH, 1894.
Prize Schedule, and all Information may be
obtained at the Office.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Magical Instruments
XM AS BOXES!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away ! ! (only 30, 000 )
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and you will receive
lu returu a 4s. Song, Wait* or Fiauo Piece,
F It E El
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Remember this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Elutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
G-u.na & Jt-t 1 fie a,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES. SEWING MACHINES.
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
per week oca.
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK!
At 2d. and 3d. each. —Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS’
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Bd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
-Merchauls A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Fiaxios, Organa, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, etc.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
42T Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, January 23,1894.
f I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
I. SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o clock
a.m. on tbe dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31.
Bridge, Yanko Creek, at Wilson
Erection of Five Houses for Assistant Overseer,
&c., Naval Station, Garden Island
Wooden Pump Trunk at Pumping Station, Moama
Water Supply
Erection of Kitchen, &c., Benevolent Asylum,
Newington
Additional Covering to Platform, Cootamundra
Railway Station
Contract No. 86 Sydney Sewerage, Long Cove
Creek, Stormwater Cannel. Second division
Drainage Works, Government House, Sydney
Pipe Laying, Nyngan Water Supply
Further Alterations Royal Mint, Sydney
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14.
Erection of Station Buildings, &c., at Illawarra
Ruud, Canterbury, and Burwood Road, Rail-
way Marrickville to Burwood Road, time
extended
WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
Missing Friends.
WILSON, ANDREW (native of Glasgow,
worked at South Melbourne Gasworks in
1888—last heard of at Drouin, Vie., about May,
1890), or anyone knowing of him, please communi-
cate with Alex. Wilson, or O. P, Law, 607 Harris-
street, Sydney.
~ Amusements. ~
QRITERION THEATRE
Lessees .. Prank Thornton and Charles Arnold.
EVERY EVENING (at 8.30) EVERY EVENING
Mr. Fit INK THORNTON
as
“CHARLEY’S AUN T.”
Preceded at 8 by “A BAD PENNY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
The Gorgeous Christmas Pantomime,
“JACK THE GIANT KILLER.”
Saturday, January 27—“ TRUE AS STEEL.”
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
T»HE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, lietween Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS I
Grand Xmas Pantomime,
“(Beauty and the (§east.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
Proprietor and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Larmour.
The Wonders of Sea and Land on View Every Day
from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m.
Sydney’s POPULAR SUNDAY CONCERTS. Highest
Class Artistes Every Sunday Afternoon.
The Luxurious Swimming Baths open Daily from 6 a.m.
till 10 p.m. For LADIES Daily from 10 till 2 o’clock.
Female Attendant. Continental Bathing (Ladies and
Gentlemen) Every Tuesday Evening. Public Quadrille
Assembly every Wednesday Evening.
Theatre royal.
Acting Manager and Treasurer .. Fred. Gunther.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, January 25) LAST NIGHT of
The Thrilling and Sensational Drama,
“THE GULP OF IRON.”
FRIDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 26, the Sensational Drama,
“THE CANNON’S MOUTH.”
POPULAR PRICES —3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE.
LBURY MISSING WORD COMPETI-
TIONS. DOUBLE GUESSES-No. A
“ The expulsion of Anarchists from Prance has led to
their massing in England, a circumstance which must be
regarded as when considering past outrages
and future possibilities."
CLOSES FEBRUARY 4. Competitors allowed two
guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O. Order, 1/1
if in_ stamps. Add exchange to Postal notes other
colonies. Total amount (leas 10 per cent.) divided amongst
successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited with Mr. T. F. Hughes,
the well-known Albury Bookseller.
Burton & Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
Please mention this paper when replying.
H _ Publications.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,"
"Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “11 Trova-
tore,” “ Bes Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 251 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
The Best Magazine Published in Australia
—IB—
SCXUBSJSII’B.
Issued Monthly by THE CENTRAL PRESS AGENCY,
Limited,
48 and 60 Castlereaqh STREET, SYDNEY.
SUBSCRIPTION now REDUCED to 12s. per annum.
Published Monthly. Brice, One Shilling.
The CHRISTMAS NUMBER now Ready.
roK
Books and Stationery,
The BEST and CHEAPEST NOVELTIES
are Imported by
The OENTEAL PEESS AGENCY,
48 & SO Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY
(opposite the Australia Hotel).
CHE A P MUS I C.
New Song, “Playfellow," the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Songs,
Waltzes, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
JUST PUBLISHED.
The Historical Records of N.S.W.
VOL. ll—Demy Bvo., 936 pp.
(Edited by E. M. Bladen, Barrister-at-law.)
Containing the Despatches of Lieut. Governors
Grose and Paterson ; Population Statistics ;
Lists of early Land Grants ; Statements of Ex-
penditure ; Letters from Norfolk Island : Hunter’s
Commissions and Instructions ; the private Jour-
nal and Letters of Mrs. Macarthur; the original
Journal of Governor King; the private Letters
and Journal of Daniel Southwell (non-commis-
sioned officer on H.M.S. Sirius); Extracts from
Newspapers of the last century ; Records relating
to the “Scotch Martyrs”; and miscellaneous State
Papers bearing on the History of the Colony up
to the end of the year 1795.
Price:—Subscribers to the series —
Cloth, 6s. 6d.; half Morocco, 10s. 6d.
Non-subscribers —
Cloth, 7s. 6d. ; half Morocco, Its. 6d.
•** Post free within the Colony; beyond the
Colony the postage will-be Is. 2d.
Note. —This is a separate and distinct publication from
the “ Uistory of New South Wales."
CHARLES POTTER.
Government Printer.
Parson Campbell, who wrote to the papers
explaining that Mrs. Knorr ought to be hanged
because “ she was now resigned,” recalls an old
story of little Father Lordon, R.O. Chaplain to
Melb. Gaol many years ago. A condemned
criminal whom his reverence had made “perfectly
resigned,” was reprieved at the last moment.
“Ah,” sighed Father Lordon, “I am not so
very pleased, after all—he will never be so well
prepared again.” It was the same priest who, to a
sturdy Irishman who came to give him notice of
marriage, exclaimed: “Why, Pat, your wife’s
only dead two months.” “And isn’t she as dead
»s iver she’ll be ? ” retorted Patrick.
A curious financial item comes from Vic-
toria. According to the newspaper report, a man
presented a cheque, purporting to be signed by a
local firm, at the bank, and duly received the
amount. Then the firm was much astonished to
learn that its account was overdrawn, and de-
nounced the cheque as a forgery, and reported the
matter to the police. The police thereupon
started after the forger, but failed to find him,
and a day or two later the firm came
along, and acknowledged in the handsomest
manner that the charge was a mistake and
that the cheque was no forgery, • after all.
Apparently the matter dropped there. Mean-
while, if the police had found the man in question,
and the firm hadn’t recovered its lost memory, the
sentence would probably have been three years in
gaol at the lowest estimate. There is no evidence
of any malicious intent in the matter, but if there
had been any malicious intent —well, about the
easiest way to get rid of an enemy is to give him
a cheque in a charitable spirit, and then have him
run in for forging the document. When one man
in the dock swears that a signature is genuine,
and one man and an expert in the witness-box
swear that it is not, there is never any doubt about
the result. The necessary expert can always be
obtained, and if the signature is so very like the
real thing that nobody but the expert can tell the
difference, that merely proves that the prisoner is
an exceedingly dangerous forger, and if he hasn’t
been previously convicted he ought to have been,
and as a consequence he gets two years extra.
Australasian Medical Gazette congratu-
lates Dr. Grace Robinson upon her appointment
as Resident Medical Officer to the newly-estab-
lished Maternity Branch of Sydney Benevolent
Asylum, “the more so as she has had to contend
against no less an important factor—or factors,
rather—than the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine
of the Sydney University, the Professor of Physi-
°logy, the President of the Board of Health, and
the Medical Adviser to the Government, who,
individually and collectively, opposed this lady
physician’s appointment to a small salaried posi-
tion. For the information of such readers as may
not happen to be initiated, we must explain that
the above appointments referred to are all held by
one man Professor Anderson Stuart.” The
Gazette, after hinting that Professor Stuart could
do worse than stick to his University duties and
pay, instead of reaching out all round for more,
remarks that, “If distinctions are to be drawn
between the sexes when it comes to a division of
spoils, especially in favour of the men, then the
lady medical students ought to be charged smaller
fees, and should get modified diplomas only,”
There is much hard explanation going on
just now in connection with the “Free Metho-
dist” Church at Ballarat (Vic.) Pastor John-
son left this church some time ago, and the Con-
ference, instead of the customary certificate, gave
him a brief document setting forth that it couldn’t
recommend him to any other congregation.
Nevertheless, the fallen preacher turned up at
Auckland with a considerably different kind of
document, and got on well until the discrepancy
between the two papers attracted attention.
Then he returned to Ballarat and has been
explaining ever since. The average parson is
probably the worst explainer on the face of
the earth, and Mr. Johnson seems to be a trifle
worse than the average. His explanation wanders
over the facts that he was converted at the age of
15 and had “won hundreds of souls;” that his
wife believed in faith-healing and died of internal
cancer; that he left Ballarat by the 6.25 a.m.
train “yet even at that early hour a large con-
course of people assembled on the platform in
tears,” that he was very ill on the voyage through
mental strain and sea-sickness ; and that he had
intended the signature on the alleged bogus docu-
ment to be only type-written, only the operator
jerked the paper from the machine before he got to
the signature so that it had to be done in ink.
Also Pastor Johnson acknowledged that he had
made a false step, but had since confessed it
“with tears.” “Had not,” he asked, “the cele-
brities of Scripture sinned and obtained forgive-
ness? Noah had been drunk. (Laughter.) Abra-
ham had deceived. (Laughter.) Jacob had
robbed his brother. (Laughter.) David com-
mitted adultery. (Uproar.) Peter had sworn
and lied.” Then the meeting, after showing
symptoms of a free fight, closed with the doxo-
logy.


ó
ESTABLISHED 1849.
iru„ nuiM*’ Mutual Life Awuranes Soclei# ill Australasia, and the only one which
The Oiliest Mu DI2OLAUE.S A BONUS KVKEY YEAH.
n..».ro ß « the Ham Si* J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Ohaiiumil} JAMES It. HILL. Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.;
DißßcroKS me rt u IIORT, J. KINO, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
1 1 f nnnme S TwO Million# sterling. Accumulated Fundi! Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over
Annual moo One Mll fl on sterling.
Office: 07 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY. BQUmtT B. CAMEJtON, Secretary.
PATTERS A LL’S
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP — 36th JAN CARY.
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP- 26th JANUARY.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP-3rd MARCH
AUSTRALIAN CUP-fITH MARCH
AUSTRALIAN CUP-6th MARCH
õ
•• IATTKIKUI,”
Care of Gkoboe Adams,
“The Telegraph” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
■Brisbane* <|ncenslaml
F. E. Allan, the great bowler of years ago, has
taken to bowling—which is quile another matter—in his
middle age. Last week he was beaten in the final heat
for the “championship of Warniambool green.” Think
of it! Once Frank speared lions. Now he catches flies.
We shall all catch flies one day.
PREVENTION BETTER THAN CURE.
Send penny stamp for Price List of
PREVENTIVE SPECIALITIES. National
Drug Co., Russell Street, MELBOURNE.
The Best Dressing
AYER’S
HAIR
VIGOR
ò
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
gray, or
wiry, and
preserves
its rich-
ness, lux-
uriance,
and color
to an ad-
vanced
period of
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The base of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air, and
which is as perfect a substitute for the oil
supplied by nature, in youth and health; as
modern chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer—is prominent on the
wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles.
Banking.
rjpHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(LIMITED;.
H ad Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. JC300.000
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 3T5,000
RESERVE FUND *3.000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Miscellaneous.
FINNEY, J.SLEB & CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
tttb BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
W maintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
DEPARTMENTS :
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ribbons, Laces, Ladies' Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing Drapery, Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro-plate, Men's Ready-made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept)
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited,
We issue a little book on “ Shopping by Post,” which i 8
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
Send your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
and will be as well served as if in town to select.
Finney, Isles & Co.,
BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, Q.,
And 64 Basinghall Street, London, B.C.
ó
1000 for X and 3.
3000 for 5.
Kangaroo Point Syndicate
—on the well-known—
TATTERSALL’S (ADAMS)
CONSULTATIONS,
At One-fourth the price of
Adams’ Tickets.
tPHIS is the next best investment to Adams itself, and
best offer at the price in Australia. Note. —Every
purchaser of a Share becomes interested in one of Adams’
Tickets. Australian C,, March 6 - Shares 1 and 3.
First, 1000; Second, 300; Third, 200; and 310 others.
ffSg'" Ncwmarkrt, March 4—Shares 5. First, 3000 ;
Second, 1000; Third, 500; and 1400 others. For prospectus
or shares, send two addressed envelopes and stamps to
“Syndicate,” c/o J. J. PEARSE, Pearse's Buildinus,
IvatiKaioo Point, Biishni", Qn enslind. (Note. —The
Adams referred to is the G. Adams, late of Pitt-street,
Sydnej', hut now of Queen-street, Brisbane.)
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
ô
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code ; “WESTBROOK. SYDNEY.”
“Australian Form at a Glance.” Now Ready, l/-j
Posted, 1/1. Best Newmarket & Australian Cup reference.
n
Minmmiinmiri
FOll the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE.” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. ELLIS.
“ YABBA’S ”
Cash Prize Consultations.
Messrs, jas. nesbit and wm. mooney
(Members of Tattersall’s Club, Brisbane)
having amalgamated the CONSULTATION
Branches of their Business, beg to announce the
following as their opening Programme:
NE WMAIIKET 111 NDIVA P.
Flemington, 3rd March, 1894.
50,000 t'W At 5 Each 50,000
245 Extra Prizes 245
A USTRAJLIAJY CUP ! !
Flenhngton, 6th March, 1894.
5,000 “SS At 5 Each 5,000
30 Extra Prizes 30
Register your Letters, and take care of Receipt
till you receive a reply.
Address:
“ Yettotoa,”
Care of NESIUT & MOONEY, •
Queen-street, HltlS BAJ\E.
5. EACH.
o
o o
5. EACH
CANTERBURY HANDICAP February 10.
At 6 Each 4,000 At 5 Eajh
o
S. and N.S. (divide) .. 200
50C.P. at 2 each .. 100
NEWMARKET HANDICAP—M n RCH 3.
At 5 Each 20,000 At 5 Each
Less 10 per cent.
Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-street, SYDNEY (side ent.)
29 ■
YORK STREET
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
r»,O. Box 820.
Assisted by Dr. EMSLIK, M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
Legally Qualified, aud Registered by the Medical Board of N.S.W. and N.Z.
DEBILITY.
Nervous, weak, overworked, ambitionless men and women, with aching heads, weak stomachs and
leaden footsteps, who are billious, spiritless, exhausted, debilitated, pale, easily tired, have bad tasting
mouths on rising, inability for exertion, foul breath, furred or yellow tongues, whose sleep is un-
refreshing or broken by dreams, who brood over their troubles real or imaginary, and to whom the
world looks black and dreary, will find in our treatment a boon, a nerve food, nerve tonic and nerve
alterative, that cannot be found elsewhere, and which will rapidly and pleasantly restore them to
HEALTH, STRENGTH & VIGOR.
All who suffer from brain and spine affections, fits, paralysis, sleeplessness (an early symptom of
paralysis), varicocele, consumption, bronchitis, asthma, liver and heart derangements, gout, rheumatism,
sciatica, indigestion, poor blood, eruptions on the face, kidney and bladder troubles, womb affections,
and all chronic diseases of men and women, no matter from whatever causes arising, should CON-
SULT Dr. SPEER, as, in consequence of
HARD TIMES,
HE HAS REDUCED HIS FEES EXACTLY One-Half.
Those CONTEMPLATING MARRIAGE, or who suspect taint in their blood, or weakness,
should write to Dr. SPEER for Advice and Treatment. He will cure all local and constitutional
complaints, and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Consultations Free. Curable Cases Guaranteed,
PILLS.
AMERICAN “VIGOR” PILLS, for Debility,
Lost Vitality, Weakness, etc., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes. Post free.
“FEMALE” PILLS, for Irregularities
Obstructions from whatever cause, 10s.
20s.
£BO0 ei7 ™ AWAY
A liberal offer which for Novelty a;ifl
* • i -7 —, Enterprise is without a parallel in
Approximated, amount to be -rs- — w-tts -rr-i —— ,
_ _ _ _ disbursed during 1894. the History of Advertising, videJress.
Instead of Spending Thousands of Pounds annually in advertising. The National Drug Coy , have
decided upon a new departure in the way of pushing the sale of their wonderful “ Star Antibilious
Pills”.— F rom January Ist, 1894 to December 31st, 1894, a distribution of Three-fourths of the net.
profits derived from the sale of their pills will be divided amongst their customers. —First division of
profits on 31st March, future divisions at end of June, September and December. Each box. of Pills will
beara seperate number, and every person sending Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of Pills will
be entitled to participate in the current quarterly division of profits.—Dividend Cheques to be made out
in sums of £5 each and posted immediately on our receipt of winning numbers. Successful numbers also
names and addresses of holders will be advertised on following week in A ustralasian, Town d-' Country
Journal and S'. A. Observer.*- The strictest impartiality to he observed and fairness of division un-
questionable.—Present Profits average £lOOO per annum, so that with the large increase of business
resulting from this announcement it is only reasonable to anticipate that at least £2OO will bo available
for each Quarterly distribution. Please note number on Box and compare same with ;al\e.vised
list after end of quarter.— Address— National Drug Coy., Russell Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
Mark how the V.R.O. closes up its ranks, to
charge to the Flat.
# • •
The Y.R.O. guarantees .£11,210 in stakes for
the four days' autumn meeting at Flemington.
• * *
Westralia has its Carbine, and the owner claims
£lOOO damages from a local newspaper for an alleged
libellous suggestion that the horse ran “stiff” recently.
Nobody could make remarks of that sort about the real,
original Carbine.
# * •
Perhaps the strangest and most meritorious
point of Peter Jackson’s record is the fact that after
Keeping a hotel he won first-class fights. As a rule, the
pub. is the grave of the champion’s reputation.
# * *
The powerful influence of the Sydney book-
makers is clearly responsible for the banishment from
the province of the monster consultation and the squelch-
ing of the small totes. The latter, at any rate, deserve
extinction, yet it is doubtful whether they are any worse
than most of the Tommies who would crucify them. But
let the bookmakers beware lest in striving for a monopoly
of “the mugs’ ” money they introduce the regular totalis-
ator as they did in other provinces.
# • *
No wonder sculling and boxing have gone down
in Sydney. By taking a penny trip to Balmain, one can
now witness an exciting contest between the rival ferry
services, with the chance at the finish of a stand-up fight
between the captains. Then companies, unlike athletes,
instead of compromising, always “ make it willing.”
# # *
By winning the Nursery Handicap at Rosehill
with the Nordenfeldt two-year-old, First Shot, Ike Earn-
shaw began his winning account for Mr. Sam Hordern.
# * #
The bookmakers at Sydney Tatt’s. have resented
the innovation of “reading the card.” Bookmakers are
very conservative ; so, for that matter, are all people who
make money by methods more easy than nice.
* * »
Sullivan is going to end like all scullers—Bill
Beach excepted. He is now host of the Rutland Hotel,
Hammersmith (Eng.).
# # •
After his recent brilliant successes in Maoriland
young Gormley (a son of the senior M.L.A. for the Mur-
rumbidgee) should try his luck against the English and
American aquatic amateurs.
« • •
Titan, a horse of many vicissitudes, may fulfil
early promise, and atone for subsequent disappointments,
by winning the Newmarket Handicap with the crushing
weight of lost. lib.
• * «
Two of the most prominent members of Tatter-
sail’s, Brisbane, who have hitherto conducted five-shilling
consultalions locally, have amalgamated this portion of
their businesses, and propose extending their operations
outside Bananaland. “ Billy” Mooney and “ Jem” Nes-
bit announce in another column their opening programme.
As all their past sweeps have been drawn openly, in
the now acknowledged centre of consultation businesses,
the public can rely upon a square deal.
» * «
“Foxall” Keene was the most successful
American horse-owner of last season. His 1893 winnings
were nearly ±60,000.
* * a
At all events they are candid in N.Q. The
N.Q. Racing Association, moving to suppress consulta-
tions, expressly declares that it does not take action on
grounds of morality. It believes sweeps injure racing.
They certainly injure bookmakers.
* * *
Fitzsimmons has less money than he had, and is
anxious enough for another job. Larry Foley is about
the only pug. of the lot who has been able to| stand his
oats.
* * *
Taking the line through Laing, Slavin, at his
best, should have made mince-meat of Goddard. But at
boxing, as in other things, “ three cornered form ” is
deceptive.
• * #
Billy McCarthy has retired from the ring.
Like Dempsey, he was a good man in his class who had
the misfortune to run against Fitzsimmons, a big man
whom nature had furnished with the thews of a giant but
who, having little flesh, could scale as a middle-weight.
# # •
At N. Fitzroy, Melb., a girl with £16,000 has
just married a jockey boy, who has not got higher than
“ riding work.” Kinsman made them one.
• • *
Melbourne University beat Sydney at cricket
by an innings and 39 runs. Melbourne made 411 in first
innings, and the result was never in doubt.
» • •
The N.S.W. Minister for Justice has frightened
even the big Sydney totes. The biggest of them declined
to do business last Saturday.
* # •
Laing, Goddard’s victor, is now under Larry
Foley’s tuition, which makes Joseph’s chance of reversing
the last decision much smaller.
# • «
Mr. Macpherson, the crack Australian amateur
runner, has gone to America for a twelve months’ trip.
It is to be hoped “ Billy ” will give the Yanks a taste of
his running quality whilst in the States.
* * »
Griffo, unable to get on a fight, is now reported
to be workiiigforalivingin America Perish the thought!
* « •
A fashionable Sydney jockey now hangs his
hands like a kangaroo’s fore-paws whilst doing his pre-
liminaries, in order to show his diamonds.
# * #
They all drop into the same haven. Mick Rush
was a long time over it, but be has got there at last. He
now runs Milthorpe’s old hotel in Sydney.
• * •
The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
holds its metropolitan show from 21st to 27th March.
Entries close Saturday, 24th February, and schedules
with full particulars may be had from secretary Webster,
Tatiersall’s Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney. Gov. Duff
will open the show at noon on 22nd March. £l5OO is
given in prizes.
• * *
Maoriland champion swimming meeting results
(second day): 100 yards—Mead ham, 1 ; Holmes, 2; Hel-
lings, 3. 69 4-5 secs. ; Gormly did not start. 440 yards—
Gormly, 1; Hellings, 2; Hoey, 3. 6 mins. 24 1-5 secs.
Plunging—J. Tooher. 47 ft. 9 in. in 60 secs.
# # *
The interprovincial cricket contest between
Victoria and N.S. Wales, Pm the Sheffield shield, com-
mences, to-morrow (Friday, 26th) at Sidney Association
Ground ; and continued on Saturday, Monday, and Tues-
day. A good game js anticipated. The Vic. team;
Bl H-khain, Carlton, Graham, Harry, Laver, Letcher, C.
M‘f,or,d, Phillips, Stuckey, Trott, Walters, Worrall.
Umpire, Flynn.


THE WATERBURY AGE,
Its Phases Illustrated-
&
m
%
“ Dick, you rascal, you’ve been in the sun
igain.”
“No, Laura, ’pon honour (hie). Bought
mu new Waterbury. So delighted, had to
iskh shopman to have drink.”
8
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and ’c cep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from ait Druggists & Stores.
J} Perfect Food
HORLIGK’S
o
NV'
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
vniiAi
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combii ed
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick 1)
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, 189:.
TUTALTED MILK, as a food for In-
IT!. valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable,and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London, E.C.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN’S SWEET)
r/tcn *
t l
■£<rn%£> Jm
V Y X " JM
Tj'nnrrt.
St. John's Works, Loudon, W.C.
fpHE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE —Is. ; Per POST, la 3d.
Colemane & Sons* Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
Colemane& Sons’Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Why Suffer One Moment
From Torhtring Skin Diseases
When a single application of the Cuticura Remedies will, in
the great majority of cases, instantly relieve the most agonizing of
Itching, burning, scaly, crusted, pimply, and blotchy skin and scalp
diseases, and point to a permanent and economical (because so
speedy) cure, when the best physicians and all other remedies fail ?
Cuticura Remedies are the
greatest skin cures, blood purifiers,
and humor remedies, are absolutely
pure, and may be used by the
youngest and most delicate with
gratifying and unfailing success.
CUTICURA
the great skin cure, instantly
allays the most intense itching,
burning and inflammation, permits
r
.
r
to
✓r
rest and sleep, speedily heals the CUTICURA TYPES OF HEALTH AND BEAUTY,
skin, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beau-
tifier, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuticura
Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin Purifier and greatest of Humor
Remedies, cleanses the blood of all impurities and poisonous ele-
ments, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Remedies
cure every disease and humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, from pimples to scrofula.
All about thb Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustra-
tions, and 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap , 25c.;
Cuticura Resolvent, sx. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U.S. A .
pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and
oily skin and hands are prevented and
cured by that greatest of all Skin
Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other
skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive ol
toilet and nursery soaps. The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive of inflammation
and clogging 0/ the pares, the cause 0/ most complexional disfigurations. Price, 25c.
Bad Complexions
Thames Electric & Steam Launch C ?
&
3 *n?-r.
ELECTRIC LAUNCH ‘•GLOW-WORM," 53ft. by 7ft. Sin.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m i m e.,
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND,
Ef n WAKPS«
o
ó
ò
W(MEL»-I(ENOWNI<:i»
HAIR PRODUCER^RESTORER
PKODUCES
Luxuriant Hair, Whiskers and Moustaches.
ö
Prevents the Hair Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Remedy for
BALDNESS.
For Caring Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre-
serving, Strengthening, and rendering the Hair
beautifully soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc.
õ
Also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, it is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless, and devoid of any Metallic or other in-
jurious ingredients. Is not a l»ye. The Best dressing. Specially prepared for Toilet Use.
Is 3s «d, 3s (id and 5s 6d per Kettle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists, Hair Dresseis and
‘ * ’ Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
‘ Plum’
™lJp/77
THE
6 Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend this brand to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to its merits. Wc guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
j Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
iSingle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 80s.
Reinsured and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, h. extra
Sole
Agents ;
CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY.
“THE LAST OF SIX.
German Joe.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Skirting the swamp and the tangled scrub,
Trumping and turning amidst the trees,
Carrying nothing but blankets and grub,
Hiking no heed of his health or ease,
Hither and thither with never a goal,
Heavy, and solemn, and stiff, and slow,
Seeking a track and a long-lost line,
“ Blazed avay to dob lead of mine ”
Restless and ricketty German Joe.
Down in the gully and up the range,
Stung by the gale and the hate-hot sun.
Never a greeting to give in change,
Never a tip from the nearest run,
Seeking a guide to a golden hole.
Lost in the lone land long ago,
Left in the keep of the hills and trees—
Jealous to have and to hold are these,
Hope you may get it, though, German Joe,
‘Likely old yarn for a darned marine !
Struck it, you say, at the river head—
Back where the bellowing bunyip’s seen,
Out beyond everywhere—rich and red;
Left it for tucker, and lost the track,
Blazed till your arm couldn’t strike a blow.
Gravel that gleams with the golden stuff,
Nuggets ‘shust like as der plums in duff.’
What are you giving us, German Joe?”
“bHze? Yes ; you strike for the Granite Stair’
Make to the left when you cross the creek,
South till you meet with a monkey bear,
1 Tramp in his tracks for about a week;
Then you can travel the sky-line back.
So long, old chap, if you’re bound to go.
Don’t you forget when you’re rich and great
Who laid you on to the lost lead, mate—
Mad as a hatter is German Joe.”
Laugh as they may, they will stand his friends,
Right as rain when the old man takes
Down to his bunk in the hut, and spends
Seven weeks fighting the fever and shakes,
Muttering still of his lucky lead :
“ Vhisper—l leds you all in der know,
Den you pe richer nor as der pank.”
Boys, he’s a man if he is a crank—
Whisky and physic for German Joe.
Now he’s abroad in a wild dream-land,
Baring his breast to the river breeze—
Out where the rock-ribbed ranges stand,
Whispering his tale to the secret trees
Hither and fro with a phantom’s speed,
Over the plains where the mad winds blow.
Cover his face now, and carve a stone,
Henceforth his spirit must seek alone—
Dead as a door-nail is German Joe.
Bushmen have yarned of a ghost that went
Blazing a track from the Granite Stair
Down to a shaft and a tattered tent,
Many days’ journey from anywhere.
Others have said that the bushmen lied.
Liars or not, it is true, we know,
Men have discovered a golden mine
Out in the track of an old blazed line,
Led by the spirit of German Joe.
Melb.
EDWARD DYS[?]N.
Why does a man whisper in another’s ear
when no one is within earshot?
Humboldt mentions a South American
parrot which spoke in an extinct Indian language.
The Geelong bar has been swept aivay.
Fifty years ago this would have made Geelong
Melbourne.
Nelly Wick, aged eight, barber’s daughter,
has been displaying to delighted audiences at the
London Aquarium her accomplishment of shaving
13 men in 10 minutes.
Every intelligent man considers, with
more or less reason, that every other man is a
fool in most things, but very few people are quick
to perceive things in which the other man is wiser
than themselves.
Dear Bulletin, —Mountebank Stead’s
drink-cure—like every other nostrum of the sort—
must be a fraud, simply because it begins at the
wrong end of the stick. There may be boozers-
for-boozing’s-sake who can be chemicalled into
temporary abstinence, but where it is the brain—
not thestomach—thatcraves the alcoholic fillip, the
only way to fortify the man against his foe is to
re-build his nervous system—a work to which no
drug in the pharmacopoeia can be more than a
doubtful adjunct.— Been There.
Dear Bulletin, —Well-fed clergymen are
continually preaching about the everlasting hell
in store for us. Put one of the Hell-preachers
into a 6 x 8 tent, on the bank of a river, where
mosquitoes, bull-ants, spiders, centipedes, and
perhaps a stray scorpion or two keep him up,
horror-stricken, all night striking matches and
looking at himself to see where he was bitten last,
and then next morning let him find his meat fly-
blown ; his sugar a living mass of ants; his flour
black with miscellaneous abominations, and both
his fishing-lines in the river snagged ! And then
see whether he’d preach any more about a hell
hereafter / 6xB.
The ex-King of Naples, who still lives, is
said to have been the last Italian monarch to
claim the virtues of a patent medicine. His royal
touch was commonly supposed to cure all com-
plaints in his faithful subjects—consumption,
pains in the back, measles, loss of memory, small-
pox, weak eyes, or any disease that they could
think of. His Majesty was careful not to do
much laying on of hands, all the same. He
picked his patients with wise discretion. If a
bouncing damsel stood around the palace gates,
suffering from an indefinable ailment, then the
King, perhaps, would touch her under the chin and
effect a marvellous cure.
Before undergoing operative or other
treatment for Piles, consult Mr. A. Sharp on the
new and successful “Cannalin” treatment, 257
George-st., close to Bridge-st., Sydney.*
Dear Bulletin, —At Kew Gardens, the
other day, wandering through the splendid con-
servatories, I was surprised to see the familiar
lantana —in Queensland a pest which divisional
boards and private persons pay hundreds of
pounds to extirpate—carefully grown in a pot
with the other hothouse plants. “ What is that ? ”
I asked one of the gardeners. “That comes from
Africa, sir—lantana is the name, sir.” “Is it
valuable?” “ Well, I dare say those plants are
worth 7s. fid. each, sir.” “Those plants ” were
scrubby, little specimens about six inches high.
Can nobody open up an Australian export trade
in lantana?—Yours, Australian.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
17 of this issue.


eczema,
SALT-BHBUM,
Or any other
Eruptive Disease,
Will quickly leave its Victim, when
the remedy taken is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Bead the following testimonial from Mr. R. H.
Staiili, a respectable citizen of Des Homes, lowa,
U S.A. He says ; “My little daughter was for
several years, afflicted with Eczema; none of the
many remedies prescribed by the physicians doing
<C\^
her any good. When we had about given up all
hope of curing her, my wife suggested the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. We tried it, and before one
bottle had been taken, a great change for the
better was noticeable. We continued the treat-
ment, and a thorough cure was the result.”
“ My daughter, long a sufferer from salt-rheum,
was comp'etely cured by the use of Ayer’s Sarsap-
arilla.”— Maria R. dk Rins, Calpulalpam, Mexico.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
“CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Aertex Underclothing*
' Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
A Positive .Safeguard against Chills.
Light Make for Spring and Summer.
ECRU COTTON SINGLE IS (Half Sleeves), 4s. 6d*
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS (Long Sleeves). ss.
ECRU COTTON UNDERPANTS, SS.
This Line recommended as being easily washed,
UNSiiRiSKABLE, and very durable.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Caps, Pyjamas, Braces, Belts
. and Hosiery.
\\ hen Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, and include in Remittance, amount to Prepay
Carriage.
Price-lists, pamphlets and full particulars, post free
from the Sole Agents;
BEAHAM Si MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
The OALIGrRAPH Writing Machine.
?* w&€L
-
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable,
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a Hat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agei t for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Bundle-street; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Cool nnd Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, Ac.
And preserves the TIIK SKIN fiom the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually than any other preparation.
It is delightfully Cooling and Befrrshino if applied to
the Face or Hands after belli' out in the Sun, Tennis-
playing Yachting, &c. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, Is. & 2s. (id. Sole Makers:
M. BEETHFAM SON. Chemists, Cheltenham. England.
FELTON. GRIM WADE & Co., Melbourne,
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice
Ooleinane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
Prospectus.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
BEALE & COMPANY, Ltd.
Capital :
£150,000 in 150,000 Shares, to be fully paid
up to £l.
No further liability ; payable Five Shillings upon Appli-
cation ; Two Shillings and Sixpence upon Allotment ;
and the balance by instalments of Two Shillings and
Sixpence at intervals of not less than three months.
Instalments paid up in advance will be credited with
Eight per cent. Interest.
Directors :
OCTAVIUS C. BEALE, Esq., Chairman and
Managing Director.
The HON, JOHN SEE, M P., Vice-Chairman.
The HON. THOMAS M, SLATTERY, M R.
NORMAN FREDERICK GIBLIN, Esq.
WILLIAM VERO READ, Esq. J.P., (Late Traffic
Manager Government Railways.)
W. H. READETT, Esq., J.P,, Inverell.
ROBERT AMOS, Esq., Railway Contractor.
Bankers:
The BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
The BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Solicitor:
THOS. READ, Esq., 133 King Street, Sydney.
Chief Offices & Show Rooms :
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Factory and Stores:
NELSON STREET, ANNANDALE.
Branches at:
Newcastle, Maitland, Tamworth, Armldale,
Inverell, Moree, Parramatta, Lithgow, Bathurst,
Mudgee, Orange, Parkes, Dubbo, Bourke,
Goulburn, Young, Wagga, Hay, Narrandera,
Gundagai, Albury, Corowa, Wollongong, Bega
Cooma, Taree, Grafton, Lismore, Murwillumbah
JTJHIS Company is being formed to take over, as a
i going concern, the business, now, and for the past
fourteen years, carried on by Messrs. BEALE & CO.
in Sydney, and throughout New South Wales, as Manu-
facturers, Importers, and Distributors of Sewing Machines
and Musical Instruments ; also the Stock-in-trade, Bal-
ances, and all debts due to the firm ; the Machinery,
Plant, and all materials.
The concern has branches and travellers all over the
territory. Its success is so well-known that comment
is needless ; suffice it to say that the business will be run
on the same lines in the future that have ensured con-
tinued success in the past, and the extended confidence
between the present firm and its customers will be
studiously maintained.
The volume of business has steadily grown, and during
five years the trade has totalled the enormous amount of
1,178, while the profits have been large and steadily
maintained. By the system of liens on goods sold until
fully paid for, the losses by bad debts have been reduced
to a comparatively insignificant amount.
With the business there will be handed over the
following properties; the title and interest in the present
firm of the freehold land and buildings situated at 482
and 484 George Street, Sydney, immediately opposite the
splendid edifice now being erected for the Central City
Markets. These buildings fotm a striking feature in the
centre of the busiest block in the city, and for solidity
and quality of finish are unsurpassed. The portions not
required by the firm are let to substantial tenants.
Also the Factory and Stores at Nelson Street, Annan-
dale, which occupy freehold land 30 feet by 200 feet, and
leasehold 60 feet by 400 feet. The principal Factory,
with engine and machinery, stands upon the freehold. All
the machinery is specially applicable to the work ; there
are ample supplies of seasoned timber for future require-
ments. Finally the freehold brick store and stables Myrtle
Street, city. All these properties are taken over at cost.
Stocks and Plant at valuation ; and customer's balances
with allowance for contingencies.
Messrs. Beale & Co. take the whole of their interest in
shares; no good-will is demanded; no preference or
promoters shares. Mr. Octavius C. Beale will act as
Managing Director for five years at least.
All the firm’s Trade Marks, will become the property
of the Company ; and the system of protecting goods by
liens until fully paid for, which has stood the test of years
will be strictly adhered to.
The results contemplated in converting the busines
into a Company are—(l) Expansion by introduction of
additional capital ; (2) Co-operation of interest amongst
a wide-spread body of shareholders ; (3) lire seeming of
perpetuity of the business.
A sound progressive concern is offered, the results of
which in pa-t years justify the expectation of 10 to 12 j
per cent, dividends, besides providing Reserves.
Full prospectus and information may be obtained from
the following agents, who are authorized to receive de-
posits on shares.
BSjfVXjS & CO.,
483 it 484 Oeort/e Street, City;
And Agents in every City and Town throughout New
South Wales.
Nervousness Cured!
SEND to HERR RASSMUSSEN, 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or any of his Inter-
colonial Branches, for his Free and Useful Pamphlet, entitled
“A Tliousanci Reasons”
Why Sufferers should immediately take
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alp aline Vitality Pills!
Which are Registered, and Purely Herbal. Cured many Thousands.
A GUARANTEED CURE for the most obstinate NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF MEMORY,
DESPONDENCY, MELANCHOLIA, NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA and IRRITABILITY, WEAK-
NESS, and all Affections peculiar to the NERVES, SPINE and BRAIN. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/G; special powerful course, 43/0; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
THOUSAND TESTIMONIALS I
Blood Diseases Cured!
ALFALIIME LOCK CURE PILLS.
Registered. Purely Herbal. Cured over 100,000.
A GUARANTEED CURE for all kinds of BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES
FROM ANY CAUSE, OLD-STANDING BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES, PIMPLES,
ECZEM A, and other unhappy and unpleasant symptoms of the Skin and Blood. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’® well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin,
“Herr Kassmussen lias shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”- Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”—North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s prtss notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-tides of bis
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S. A.
Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
Courier, Q.
WHAT IS BETTER THAN
<£1,000,000 ?
HEALTH!
You are always Poor
without Health, even if you are
Wealthy.
How did over 100,000 Sufferers
gtt Restored to
HEALTH ?
By taking
HERR, RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press is unanimous in praising up Jlerr
Jtassrnussen and his wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies,
and his name has become a much-cherished and lasting
household word in every city, village and camp in the colonies.
ov •. A
■ ni'
mm
m/f
m ii&SSSs
ftgS SsagSsS
3
s Si
The wonderful success of Herr Itassmussen, and the ever-
increasing patronage extended to his celebrated Herbal
Remedies by all classes of society, is bona-fide evidence that
they are effective and genuine.
HERE RASSMUSSBN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GCOfIGB STREET, SYDKTBTT.
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered
ALFALINE REMEDIES!
Which have CURED OVER One Hundred Thousand Sufferers for Blood and Nerve Diseases.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of the Academic Parisienne des Inventeurs, France.
Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U. J.F.C.
Honourably Mentioned in “ Centennial History of New South Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney, Bronze Medal, Melbourne, for his Herbal Remedies.
AiitKov of “The IST atnral Doctor.”
HERBAL REMEDIES:
Alfaline Vitality Fills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Ordinary course, 23/6, posted ; Special Powerful
Double Course, 43,6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to eradicate Dandruff. Produces quickly
luxuriant hair. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Complexion. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes,
posted, 1,6 and 2,6.
AI la 11 lie Lock Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Blood. Purely Herbal.
Ordinary course, posted, 23,'6; special powerful course,
43 6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Inlcrnal File Powders.
Excellent tor internal use. Posted, 3/- and 6/-
Airaliue External Pile Powders.
Cure both Blind and Bleeding Piles. Posted, 3/- & 6/*
Alfaline Leucorrhoea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Male and Female Syringes, Suspenders, an
other Specialties, kept in stock.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
IMPORTANT. Make Cheques and Post Office Orders Payable to Hans Rassmussen.
whether jou send to his Head Office, or to any of his Branches. Register Betters containing Money. All
Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover. All Correspondence strictly Confidential.
HERR RASSMUSSBN’S
Chief Laboratory and Head Depot for all the Colonies :
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT : *l5O Boukkk Stkkkt, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT: IGO Queen Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN HEAD PEROT: 154 Rumple Stkkkt, ADEL AIDE.
NEW ZEALAND HEAD DEPOT : .91 Lambton Quay, WELLINGTOnT
“ But who is to judge as to when one has
reached the stage where it is unsafe for him to
drink more? This is left to the man who is
making gain by the weakness of his wretched
victim.”— Mrs. B. G. White.
Wyndham, W.A., holds the prison-break-
ing championship. In the gaol (calculated to hold
25) there were GO aboriginal prisoners. One of
them, anxious to spend Xmas in his native humpy,
stole the keys, and unlocked his own and 32 other
aborigines’ neck and leg irons. Then they shifted
two sheets of galvanised iron and walked out.
Three days afterwards 25 more thus departed,
leaving on the hands of the gaoler but two dod-
dering old men, too blind to get away.
Editor Bulletin, — lie mirage controversy.
Let me draw attention to an extraordinary mystery
not four miles from here, which is commonly
known as “ O’Brian’s Fire.” In the centre of a
thick clump of pine timber, on the open plain,
there is plainly visible any dark night a column
of glaring red flames. No matter from whab
point of the compass you approach, when you get
within a radius of forty yards the flames suddenly
vanish. The closest examination fails to reveal
anything unusual in the surroundings. Scores of
people have been puzzled, and many of your
readers may remember visiting the place.—Yours,
“A.” Narandera, N.S.W.
The Moravian missionaries at Batavia
River (N.Q.) are simple, untutored children of
light. The Torres Straits paper lately hinted
that the police were prevented from making
reprisals for attacks on whites by the Batavia
River blacks, lest mission interests should suffer.
The Moravian missionary in charge, finding he had
no ground for a libel-action, the thing being true
enough, wrote to the editor thus :
I thought first to bring an action for defamation against
you. But you, as an editor, are protected. I would have
to commence proceed! rigs atTownsville. land my brother
missionary, Mr. Ward, cannot afford time and money for
that. But I tell you what I will do. I will call you a
liar, as you are, and then you can summon me here for
defamation. Neither I nor Mr. Ward wish to avoid meet-
ing your charges. We give you the lie direct, and
challenge you to prove what you have said ■, gainst us in
open court. lam not an Englishman born, but I like
English fair play, and I invite you to prove that in this
matter you are not a liar. I say you are.—N. Hey,
Moravian Missionary at Mapoon, Batavia River.


Oh ! draught divine, that adds new life—breeds
mirth —
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Where shall I quaff thee ? Horace! thou\houldsb
know?
Why, in the Boar’s Head Brand of Innes and Co.
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHAT IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art) of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got for sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you ? Will you do your business at
Y JSJI O H. U 13 3Ft ZKT’S *?
ANTHONY HORDERN’S ?
SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY IS! "m
BUT EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived in town.
ONLY ADDRESS of the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS :
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
kAYMARKET (ONLYI, SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
January 24, 1894,
Lady Oarington is remembered with enthusiasm
at Katoomba, especially at the colliery in the
valley, where a miner pointed at an almost per-
pendicular deposit of burnt coal and said proudly,
“Lady Oarington has been twice down that there
ash ’eap ! ” How the dolly little woman negoti-
ated it, unless she slid down on the principle that
a boy applies to a bannister, I don’t know, but, at
all events, the legend is unshakeable, and I
couldn’t help thinking what some people would
have given for the ash Lady O. must have taken
out of her shoes when she got to the top.
Apropos of Lady Oarington, the very latest
about her from the other side of the pond presents
that pmk and white lady in a still more artificial
light than even we knew her by. Speaking of
some princess or other who recently paid a visit to
Somebody Quite as Mighty, a London paper said ;
“Her fresh, fair, wholesome colouring was quite
a contrast to an arrival immediately preceding
that of her Royal Highness—that of Lady Caring-
ton. Very golden locks and roseate cheeks are
natural in the twenties; but a score years later—
well, they do not look so at any rate.”
In Sydney “Lily’s” locks were the fawn or
mousey colour of a plaited sugar-bag, and though
the roseate cheeks bloomed miraculously right
through our anaemia-haunted climate, still the
hair remained as Nature intended, at any rate.
Gold-wash, capping all the top-dressing, must make
little Lady O. look like a ballet-girl who has
kicked her way into the peerage. But perhaps
the artful baron smoothes over the shock by ex-
plaining that the fierce Australian sun simply
made hay of Lily’s hair.
Apropos of vice-regalities, they say that one
Australian Governor freezes his more pushing
subjects per medium of a glass eye. But it strikes
me that a glass eye would be a distinct advantage
to any Governor. A potentate who can always
rely on a stony, unseeing glare in at least one
optic ought to have the pull over a ruler who has
to manufacture his own unspeakable expression on
the spot.
A new wrinkle came in with the summer—that
of named hat-bands on the “ sailor’’-shaped
toppings-off that every woman, who hasn’t a face
like a horse, now clings to. The idea meant to be
conveyed is, that the bands are the gifts of stricken
naval swains, and probably, in the first instance,
before the style had got into the shops, there was
nmething in it.
There is a certain amount of gratification—look-
ing at the vanity from a butterfly point of view-
in having the name of your particular Captain
Corcoran’s floating abode going all round your hat
in gold letters—especially when the ribbon is a
souvenir. But when it comes to running into a
shop and buying a small boy’s “sailor” with
“ Dreadnought,” or some such nautical old fogey,
described on it, and picking the band off to adorn
your own cranium, I must say I quite fail to see
the point of the thing.
But if women will wear christened headgear,
the least they can do is to hunt up something that
doesn’t fit them too accurately. For instance, I
met a regular acidulated drop of a female on the
Block recently in one of the branded hats, and
the name she was prancing under was “Spitfire.”
She was a far more congruous exhibition than the
hatchet-faced woman with the dog’s-eared mouth,
who scowls at you over a brooch with “Pet” on
it—but, still, I think that a prudent middle course
in naming yourself for public appreciation is un-
doubtedly the best policy. A dressy Sydney girl,
who does the Block under the title of “Rattler,”
has a far better idea of the possibilities of the
situation.
It is always a delicate operation deciding whom
“ baby ” favours for the benefit of the fond
mamma, who may or may not wish to have papa’s
Roman nose or her own poodle-pug declared to
preponderate in her cherub’s face. But when the
said papa is more or less unauthenticated, so to
speak, a realty wise person dandling the darling
astutely traces mamma or nobody in its blinking
visage.
Not so a gushing Thespienne, who was behaving
like a “giddy ox” (as “Charley’s Aunt”remarks)
over the small olive-branch of a certain charming
actress, who brought the infant behind the scenes
up North the other day. After various fulsome
ecstasies, the foolish virgin started on the pebbly
path—exceedingly pebbly under the circumstances
—of “Who is he like?” Gazing raptly into the
mottled visage, she said, in a voice of the most
intense conviction: “Isn’t it just like Mr.
Snooks!”
Now, if Mr. Snooks had been even a possible
interpretation the betise would have passed muster
as a kindness one woman may occasionally do
another in an unguarded moment—but, as Mr.
Snooks has been an unknown matrimonial quan-
tity for ever and ever so long, his was the very
last cap to fit on to the situation. It was as if
you started to congratulate a ten years’ widow-
woman on how much the precious two-year-old
resembled poor, dear Mr. Sorrel-top.
I have always thought that you want to be more
warily on your guard when a baby is the topic
than at almost any other social moment —the pit-
falls are so many and the graceful escapes so few.
Only the other day, in my hearing, a Sydney
lady was catechizing a N.S.W. politician on
the number of mouths in the nest. “ You have
17 children have you not, Mr. Dash ?” said she,
airily. “ No, madame,” was the reply, “ nOt 17 —
at least, my wife has not.”
Which recalls the anecdote —and all these
storyettes confirm me in my opinion that the
baby-topic requires diplomacy to handle properly
—of the Sydney man who met a matron of his
acquaintance and stopped to have a yarn. “So
you are married?” she began (it’s always a
woman who drags in the connubial question two
minutes after shaking hands with a man, by the
way). “ Yes? and how many children have you?”
“ Two—at home,” he responded majestically.
Then she fell back eagerly on the weather.
It is really one of the conundrums of the age
why theatre-managers don’t have a “hats-off”
rule for the stalls as well as the dress-circle, for
there is no manner of doubt that one woman in a
pancake hat can render the entertainment dull
and void for everybody in a line behind her. Only
the other evening, at “Charley’s Aunt,” I am told
that a woman sat in the front stalls, wearing one
of those flapdoodle roofings which are perched on
top of a pyramid of hair, and a man behind her,
worked up to aggravation pitch, sent her a diplo-
matic note, asking her to imagine she was in the
dress circle and take off her hat.
As a matter of course the “ lydy ” coldly
ignored the request, and sat with the tower-
shaped top - knot firmly pinned on and the
far-away gaze of a person whose heart is in the
Highlands ohas ; -.g deer for the rest of the enter-
tainment. Lut I don’t altogether blame her,
though I sympathise with her victims. Woman
is an “arranged ” individual who cannot always
take off her cranial fixings at the bidding of a
strange man, and though the spirit of the lady in
question may have been willing to oblige, the
dressing of her hair may have been weak. Before
the bitter cry of the hindermost stalls will be
hushed in the land a managerial “hats off” will
have to be pinned up and poor, weak woman (who
has put up with a lot of sarcasm over the hat
question) will have some sort of a precedent to
point to when she does the play from the stalls
bareheaded. I know the aghast expression
conventionally-bonnetted femininity aims at a
woman who wears her hat in her lap, and I don’t
wonder that possibly amiable but stereotyped
women prefer to do things like other people in the
absence of a rescuing byelaw.
Mrs. Essie Jenyns Wood has been fagged with
visitors since her return to Sydney. In fact, a
steady procession of admirers absolutely haunted
the Australia during her brief stay in Sydney,
keeping the ex-idol up to the small hours nearly
every evening.
I am told that Mrs. Wood (will Sydney ever
forget her wedding !) still considers “Jack” the
most delightful article in husbands who ever
backed away from an altar in double harness, and
that she is plumper than of yore. “Jack ” is as
much her theme of themes to-day as he was when
she approved of him so thoroughly to the London
reporters. “Jack is so good-tempered, you
know,” she told one Sydneyite after two minutes’
chat the other day.
Essie, by the way, has no present or future inten-
tion of returning to the stage, but describes herself
contentedly enough as “ occupying the humbler
position of a private citizen.” Which decision
doesn’t surprise me in the least, for even in the
zenith of her success Miss Essie, when among her
cronies, always candidly confessed a dislike to
her profession, which was more or less forced upon
her by Plain Bill Holloway. There is one Sydney
Johnnie who tells you with bated breath even
now that the best Australian Juliet once confided
to him that she “ hated Shakespeare!” Mr. and
Mrs. Wood return to the Hotel Australia in
March.
Society at the most popular of N.S.W. mountain
summer resorts is so chosen that the hotel’s pet
name is now “the Synagogue.” I think the
proprietor ought to advertise it that way if he
wants to puff it. One may always take the good
programme on trust wherever Israel sets the seal
of its approval.
The people who poke their alpenstocks in your
eye about Katoomba are not frantically mountain-
eering in appearance. The women topple about
the various slippery gorges in trimmed skirts and
lace-edged petticoats, and even evening shoes,
which suggest twisted ankles to the sympathetic
observer. I saw one girl negotiating a fall in
bow-toed slippers and four inches of white em-
broidery round her underskirt, which she was
clutching desperately out of the puddles together
with her upper garment—but all the same the
open-work was four inches deep in soil, and the
poor damsel looked as if she would give her jewel-
box to be able to prove an alibi on the spot.
Low as the Blue Mountains undoubtedly are
when compared with the world’s average, still
they are quite high enough to make knicker-
bockers and skirts to the knee a crying necessity
to the woman who wants to look presentable and
feel comfortable when careering on the mountain's
brow; and these Dorothy Draggletails towing
their sodden, fashionably-cut skirts over the
vertical face of nature, show how city-deep is the
Australian art of dressing yourself.
Oddly enough, there is an attempt at the proper
sort of thing from the waist up where it doesn’t
matter what you wear. You see mannish skirts,
neckties—(“ What a loud taste your women have
for scarfs!’’said a disgusted man to me—“you
rush for red neckties as if you were so many bull-
fighters ”)—sloppy coats, and tweed caps, but
sense swishes off into sagging multitudinous
draperies below the meridian, and the beautiful
promise of the upper-half of the Blue Mountain
girl is unfulfilled. And the saddest part of my
song is that the Draggle-tails will continue in-
definitely despite all shrieks—or at least they will
last until we stand on a different footing. The
typical Australian maiden’s large, shingle-shaped
tootsies do not make the fair owner’s fancy lightly
turn to thoughts of tucks.
The men are far more fittingly attired for the
mountains than the women, though I think one
English tourist overdid it. He had very pleated
breeches to the knee, giving the effect of a divided
skirt, thick stockings over un-Ryley-like shanks, a
nicely-fitting Norfolk jacket girded in at the waist
with a belt, and a small cap. He was a bean-pole
man and his clothes seemed to rise and obscure
the firmament—also his eye-glass was aggressive,
and he carried a weather-worn strong-box, sug-
gestive of the family jewels on tour, or the fatal
deeds that the villain is always swindling George
Rignold out of in the play. But all las glory
went out like a wooden match when at Penrith
(I pinned this specimen en route) he rushed from
the train and drank a deep draught from the
station filter immediately after an Asiatic
hawker 1 There is no beastly pride about a
globe-trotter when it lies between a free iron cup
and a sixpenny bar.
The Commodore of Prince Alfred Yacht Clubi
Mr. S. Hordern, gave an enjoyable garden party
to the members of the club at his town residence,
Darling Point, on Saturday afternoon. Mrs.
Hordern received her plethora of guests in the
arbor entrance to the lawn, and wore a quietly
stylish gown of sage-green mingled with lace
and insertion and bands of bengaline, small black-
jet bonnet trimmed with shaded pink roses, and an
ecru satin parasol covered with black lace.
There were a good many black gowns, all
necessarily handsome because the black toilet of
festivity must be of silks and laces and beads, or
else it recalls the freight of a mourning-coach.
Mrs. Alfred Bennett wore a smart white suit with
a pale-blue knot in a small black-jet bonnet; Mrs.
George Brock’s handsome toilet was white ottoman
silk, richly trimmed with Valenciennes lace and
insertion, small black jet bonnet with a yellow
flower; pretty Miss Booth sported a pinky frock
like the sartorial vision of a person looking
through rose-coloured specs., and Miss Dolly
Hordern and her small sisters wore white.
The members of the yacht club, headed by the
commodore, wore their brass-bound uniforms and
lent a quarter-deck aspect to the lawn, where two
bands rent the air with operatic melodies, and
various games came to the rescue of the non-
talkative. Lawn cricket was one of them, and a
most amusing incident was when an M.P., who
wasn’t voluntarily scouting, stopped a ball with
his glittering pot-hat. From the billiard-room
(where the comprehensive “afternoon tea” was
artistically set out) a good view of the harbour
with the club yachts, flag-decorated, at anchor,
was obtained, and, as the day was perfect, the
whole made up into a pretty picture.
Is it “ to meet the times,” I wonder, that Potts
Point now clutches at you with bare hands? It
is certainly “ the movement ” round about the
Points to wear your hands au naturel, but while
“ Society ” is alleged to be dormant, a body
cannot say for certain whether the somewhat plea-
sant summer fashion of naked fists will last or
not. In the off-season many eccentricities make
their appearance, only to fade sadly away when
the banner waves o’er Govmentous. I saw a girl
in the dress-circle at a Sydney show the other
evening with no finger-bags on, and .one or two
really splendid rings—of course. To flash the
jewels, the damsel sat chewing her nails medita-
tively from act to act, while the creeps seized me
at the spectacle. Imagine the aftermath! Dia-
monds like hailstones drawing everybody’s atten-
tion to spatula finger-tips!
The Bong Bong race-people are evidently deter-
mined to be bong tong. You would not be much
surprised to hear whom they pilled for their race-
club the other day.
About two years ago a politician presented a
church with an elegant American organ, which
was gratefully accepted by the local clergy. A
little while ago a van from a city music warehouse
was backed up to the church, and the organ
carried away. It appears the generous donor had
obtained the organ on the time-payment system,
and, having made default in the instalments, the
usual thing happened.
As “Beauty and the Beast,” at Sydney Lyceum,
nears the end of its wild career a person notices
that Nellie Stewart’s short black satin costume
looks like her Mabel dress dipped in ink—but I
don’t agree with the men who say at least
I am told they say that the cream robe
over flesh-pink tights, and a flesh-pink close-
fitting cuirass show more of Nellie Stewart
than the world has been privileged to gaze
upon before. As a matter of truth, the dress
is done decently and in order, but as unsophisti-
cated man probably mistakes the naturally-tinted
lining for cuticle, I don’t wonder he sits in amaze-
ment.
Also, one notices towards the end of the ’mime
that the seductive Bartho occasionally limps into
the wings when her enthralling teetotumisms are
over, and unpleasant memories of corns under the
toenails revive in the minds of adorers who follow
the last flutter of her tarletan skirt among the
butterflies. The other evening I thought Bartho
was going very dottily on her near side ankle as
she was walking up back, but she flew about the
stage in her active moments as daintily as what’s-
o’-clock in windy weather.
Place, fashionable suburban fancy-fair inTitipu.
Time, early in the year one. Lady Blank, wife of
the Governor of Titipu, opens the affair and is
presented with beautiful bouquet of white flowers.
Bouquet is afterwards found sticking in tree in
garden, and is used in one of the side-shows in the
evening. 3o much do “We” love flowers.
Same lady visits all the stalls; at one buys ss.
worth of goods, and tenders half-a-sov. in pay-
ment. Lady in charge of stall has no change.
“Never mind,’’ grandly says Lady Blank—“you
can send the change up to Govt. House.” Yet
she is the wife of a man with many “seats” at
’Orae! Tell me—how can such utterly tactless
people ever hope to succeed in Australia ?
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
With this issue (728) The Bulletin com-
pletes its fourteenth year.
Dr. B. W. Richardson says that the time
is coming when all medicines will be inhaled, and
all disease will die away in an era of anaesthetics.
The Age has a pretty taste for simile.
Criticising the socialism of poet Morris :
. P a . r ents, being thus relieved from all household respon-
sibilities, are to form and dissolve their unions as freely
as dogs in the street.
She : “You abominable man? No flowers,
no reception, barely a pleasant word—and I have
been away eight weeks !” He ; “ You are right—
I am, indeed, an ungrateful wretch !”—Fliegende
Blatter.
“ ‘Oh, if you speak of some one as an
honest man,’said Miss Grantham, ‘it implies that
he’s nothing particular besides. I don’t mind a
little mild honesty, but it should be kept in the
background.’ ” — Dodo.
One Adelaide daily, after making heavy
reductions in its literary and general staff, has
plucked up courage enough to attempt slicing
the wages of the compositors. Reporters,
having no union, are easily dealt with.
The reply to Peel’s paper was, The Bul-
letin hears, written by T. A. Dibbs for presenta-
tion to the Bankers’ Institute, London. Premier
Dibbs heard of it, and published it, witli scarcely
a modification, as a N.S.W. State paper.
As of old, it takes a gold-rush to liven
things up. At Perth, W.A. a little party of
seventy, on a recent race night' put away 74
bottles of champagne and 40 bottles of whisky.
How much Worcester sauce was drunk next morn-
ing is not recorded.
The great Tiffany diamond, exhibited at
the World’s Pair, has been bought Mrs. Charles
T. Yerkes, the wife of the Chicago millionaiie,
for $lOO,OOO. Anyone named Yerkes should bo
entitled to be a pig-slaying millionaire, own a
wife with a big diamond, and hail from Porkvilte.
Queensland sugar output for last season is
reckoned at 79,650 tons : Cairns, 2000 tons; John-
stone, 7500; Herbert, 7400; Burdekin. 5550;
Mackay, 25,200; Rockhampton, 1000; Bunda-
berg, 24,000; Maryborough and Isis, 5400; and
Brisbane, 1500. Average per acre, 1 ton 15 cwt.
The R.O. church at Long Island city (New
York, U.S.A.) was recently burnt down. The
Baptist clergyman immediately offered the use of
his church to the bereaved priest. The offer was
gratefully accepted, and next Sunday two masses
were said in the Baptist church before the regular
service.
Adelaide City Corporation, wroth because
the P.M. has had the temerity to dismiss informa-
tions laid by its inspectors, demands that a Civic
Court shall be established. As the fines levied in
it would go to the Municipal authorities they
would then be prosecutors, judges and bene-
ficiaries.
They have been haggling in America over
how to pronounce the name of the Earl of Dun-
raven’s yacht. Says one paper; “The name of
a yacht, like the name of a man, is an arbitrary
thing, to be pronounced as Heaven and the owner
please; there is, in Virginia we believe, a family
who spell their name ‘Enroughty,’ and pro-
nounce it ‘ Darby.’ So Dunraven can call his boat
as he pleases.”
A N.S.W. draper’s assistant has just been
arrested for steiding. He was detected through
the constant alterations in his bulk caused by the
soft goods which he wrapped round him. History
repeats itself more or less. In Paris, some years
ago, a man was arrested by the octroi officers
because he looked too fat. When overhauled, he
was found to be wearing an indiarubber stomach
containing a couple of gallons of brandy.
Thus the Age on its Tory rival:—
It may boast the eyes of Argus and the hands of
Briareus ; but as long as they are enlisted in the slowly
dying cause of privilege and prescription, its activity,
like the activity of the grave-digger, will only make its
doom the surer, till from assuming the airs of Timotheus
“ placed on high,” it drops from its perch and com-
placently raises its cap to everybody who will “give pool
old Belisarius a penny."
All this because Belisarius called David’s paper
“ Ananias !’’
The manager of Walhalla (Quirindi,
N.S.W.) Squatting Co. left behind him four
signed blank cheques for use by the book-keeper
during his absence. The cheques were stolen and
one of them, filled up for <£l6oo, was successfully
cashed for gold in Sydney by a man not yet dis-
covered. The whole loss, of course, falls on the
company, not upon the bank. In like manner, a
Melb. bank was “had” some years back. The
casher of the cheque, it was believed, wore a false
beard when he presented it; he got gold and was
not again heard of,
Mr. P. Summers, manager of Australian
Reookd, writes to the Band of Mbeoy to say that
when a beast of burden refuses to move you should
not beat him, or stone him, or kick him, or light a
fire under him. You should take his ears gently
but firmly between finger and thumb, and turn
them inside out. Then the animal moves at once.
Now there is Barkes, an animal who has blocked
the course of Australian politics for nearly half-a-
oentury. He has been coaxed, threatened, politi-
cally bribed, implored ; but he persistently re-
fuses to move. Has anyone ever tried turning his
ears inside-out ?
One Wileman has, it is cabled, bobbed up
serenely in his coffin at Burton-on-Trent (Eng.',
and demanded a drink. As he had been dead for
three days, the sorrow of his surviving relatives is
easily to be imagined. When you have made a
fair divide of the property of a corpse, and
arranged that J ane is to have dear uncle’s house,
while Emma takes the furniture, and John the
cash, there are few minds to which the readjust-
ment of ideas and belongings involved in a resur-
rection does not come with a perceptible shock.
It is quite, certain that the relatives of even
Lazarus viewed his revival with very mixed feel-
ings, and were none too thankful for the miracle.


VHL
ZM?:E3-u.r:n.o3r, T 77
15 to 20 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDSBROUGII, MORT & CO. (Limited) JV. M‘IWJtNISY, IS. 8. WALLIS, A. MBS BOV
It. C. FRANKS and 8. »/. JIKAD.
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
T.lVinra.l Cash. Advances if required.
PEG! AT ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS. MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Each Department managed. Dy a member of the
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A
Wool Warehouses : Margaret Street. Produce Stores : Circular Quay
Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices: Macquarie
Special Advertisements
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
K I! USE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion,
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
The Best
Aperient
For Ladies,
Infants,
and
Invalids.
Prescribed by
Physicians.
All Chemists
1/3,2/6 and 3/6
Per Bottle.
BOSISTO’S
‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
S3T CAUTION. —Be Careful to Secure
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND.”
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S *sa
Renders Life Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S isa
Clears the House, the Conservatory, and
the Garden of all Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S 1*
Preserves Furs from the Moth.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Cleanses Domestic Pets of Parasites.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Is the only Genuine. Ask for Kruse’s,
and take none other.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. '‘KRUSE’S ■s»
Sold Everywhere, in Tins at 1/-, 1/6
2/6, 5/- each.
Hair Will Go Grey.
GOOCH’S
ElmiG WASH
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only being necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.).
Importer of Human Hair. ~
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
w
AND
o
WHO HAVE USED “FUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND CONSTIPATION
Cure” have pound it a certain cure for all Liver Com-
plaints, Flatulency, Costiveness, Bilious Headache, Dis-
agreeable Taste in the Mouth, Alternate Chills and
Flushings op Heat, Loss op Appetite, Alcoholism, Indiges-
tion, Disturbed Rest at Night, Nervous Tremors and
Debility. By continued use it cures Constipation
permanently.
Ladies will find it invaluable for the relief of
many Uterine Complaints and Efficacious in Producing and Eestoring that
Begularity of Hata t which is all important to their wellbeing.
We refrain from publishing' «** the many Testimonials
we receive daily from persons who have taken this Valuable
Medicine, as the Public lias no guarantee of tbe genuineness
of Testimonials printed by Patent Medicine Manufacturers; but the
unprecedented success “Fuss’s Liver Bestorativo and Constipation Cure
has met with in all parts of the world, has induced the inventor of
this unsurpassed preparation to otter to any purchaser of it the
refund of the Price of 3s. Od. if the Medicine fails to cure
tbe ailments we recommended it for.
SOLD BY All RESPECTABLE CHEMISTS ARP PATEHT MEDICINE YERDORS.
Should it not be procurable locally it will be sent Carriage Paid, to any part of the
Colony on remittance of 3s. for ono bottlo, or 15s. for six bottles to the
COSMOS APOTHECARIES COY.,
the Agents for the Australian Colonies. 674 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
mill hi, ,i.; -
6 .9
THE GREAT
Scandinavian
Remedy
—FOR —
RHEUMATISM (acute and chronic) GOUT,
CHALKY GOUT, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO, NEURALGIA,
BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
KIDNEY & LIVER DISORDERS,
BRITISH CHOLERA,
And all Blood and Skin Diseases-
THIS Medicine effectually eradicates uric acid
and kidney poisons from the blood. Re-
moves pain in the muscles, joints or nerves and
permanently restores the system to perfect health.
■ 000 ' -
PRICE, ss. Per BOTTLE,
Or Course of 5 Bottles for £1 Is.
Invaluable as a Tonic to Ladies of Delicate Constitution.
When Fills or Liniments Fail, this Valuable
Specific effects a Certain Cure,
Depot; 15 Victoria Arcade, entrance from
Elizabeth-street (near King-street) and Costlereagh-street,
opposite “The Australia” Hotel.
BOX 1405 G.P.O.
Write for Pamphlets and particulars of successfully
treated cases.
v»
>-
<
LJ
%
>
<s:
Lu
o O
op
“cibtnea witn
Air.”
■*:>
,*'V
m
m
is
m
Ky.
Ccll'j'ar Iljlmlilliij
For LADIES.
The Only Natural Clothing for the Human Body.
A SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS.
Cellular Night-dresses, trimmed with Real Lace.
Prices from 10/- to 30/-
Combinations, Corsets, Petticoats, Bodices, Vests,
Drawers, Stockings, etc.
Cellular Fabric by the Yard or Piece.
Patterns, Pamphlet and all particulars,
Hellular ||lothing
305 & 307 George-st,, Sydney.
(Nearly opposite Hunter Street.)
Come to tlxe Great
ALL 3ST ATIOITS 3 SALE
At your old friends,
HOBDERHTS’ in PITT STREET.
Owing to Mr. Kidd’s
NEW POST OFFICE RULES,
you can get
GOODS
sent to any
POST OFFICE m N.S.W.
FREE
FROM
HOED ER US’,
PITT STREET.
m ORDERS WILL GO OUT THE SAME DAY.
Our COUNTRY FRIENDS who can’t conveniently come to our PLEASING and POPULAR
GREAT NATIONAL SALE!
May RELY UPON OUR PROMPTITUDE in sending their ORDERS away the SAME DAY.
WHATEVER YOU DO,
Send us your Orders soon, as we make a Terrific Sale quickly, and have it over.
HORDERN BROS., in PITT STREET, Nos. 203-211.
TO OUR COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
WE SAY
B E QUICK!
Yon will not pay one farthing, or a fraction of a
farthing, more than the city people, as WE
HAVE A COMPETENT COUNTRY ORDER
DEPARTMENT to attend to your Postal Orders.
And every person is served the Same
MAN, WOMAN, CHILD
4 r ORDER BY POST, at
HORDERN BROTHERS. 203 Pitt Street.
A Moral for Murderers.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Jack Wilson was a stranger to our part of the
country, though it was easy to see that he had
passed most of his time somewhere in the bush.
He had been on the place about six months and
was now working as boundary-rider.
He and I never did hit it. Speaking honestly,
I don’t think he was a bad sort of fellow, barring
his queer temper, which I had roused once or
twice.
One Tuesday I was riding home from the next
station by a near cut through a rocky bit of coun-
try. I had just crossed a creek and climbed out
of a gully—the creek here makes a sharp bend
through our line and runs under a rocky point
into the adjacent property —when, right on the
point, outside the fence, I saw Wilson some 300
yards off.
You have often seen two fellows wrestling.
Well, Wilson was there seemingly wrestling for
his life, but wrestling with nothing visible!
Wrestling, apparently, with a phantom ! Grip-
ping thin air, grabbing and lifting and being
borne down by vacancy, swaying this way and
that way, digging his toes desperately in the
ground and trying to throw and crush and break
the back of—Nothing !
The struggle took place about three paces from
the edge of the point. Inch by inch Wilson gave
way before ids invisible foe; inch by inch he
fought to press back the empty air, but in vain ;
at last he touched the verge, his arms were flung
from him violently backwards and outwards, and
he fell headlong—hurled by Nothingness over the
point.
I rode home and said nothing.
Wilson’s horse was found in the paddock the
next day, and his body turned up in the creek on
Thursday.
I attended the inquest. I was a little curious
to hear if there was any suspicion of foul play, but
nothing was suggested nearer than suicide. They
gave the dead man the benefit of the doubt, and
brought in a verdict of accidental death.
I didn’t agree with the verdict, but, had I given
my evidence, they’d have probably hanged me or
sent me to an asylum.
OLD Q.
The Baffled Burglar.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Vincent Smugo, M.L.0., of Ponsonby House,
Yanuka (S.A.), and Mrs. Vincent Smugg were at
loggerheads, after 15 years of domestic tranquility.
The cause was understood to be a pretty parlour-
maid.
Charles Muggins, burglar, had his professional
eyes on Ponsonby House. Having obtained, like
a prudent general, a plan of the interior fortifica-
tions, he selected as his point of assault a first-
floor window —one of two windows that belonged
to (1) a lumber-room and (2) the housemaid’s bed-
room. Muggins naturally preferred the lumber-
room.
Muggins mounted his ladder, slipped the
window-catch, raised the sash and climbed in,
dark-lantern (shut) in hand. Suddenly, he felt
himself seized by the collar and violently shaken,
while a female voice screeched —
“ Oh, you old brute ! Oh, you beast! You old
fiend ! I guessed this, and she’s away at her own
place for the night! To think that I should be
betrayed like this ! I, who’ve been a—fa-a-aithful
(sob) wi-ife (tears) to you ! You hypocrite!”
Muggins, petrified with dismay at this un-
expected variation of the programme, dropped the
dark-lantern in his struggle to slew round and get
away. The lantern-shutter slid back, and the
lantern gleamed its own commentary on the
scene.
Then Mrs. Smugg let go and shrieked, “Help!
Murder! Burglars ! Fire ! Water ! Help !
My God ! I thought it was Mr. Smugg!
Thieves ! Fire ! Murder !”
But Mr. Muggins was 300 yards away.
Mrs. Smugg repents now, with worshipping
humility, and says she can never forgive herself
for having misjudged Mr. Smugg.
Smugg is condescendingly forgiving.
The pretty parlour - maid smiles and says
nothing, but takes with simple alacrity all the
expiatory gifts which her mistress gives her. She
also, as usual, takes gifts from Mr. Vincent
Smugg.
SCRIP.
To The Deaf.—A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide ; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
UNTO DEATH.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Medlow didn’t believe it!
Convinced of the ethnological oneness of Malay
and Dyak, he had not yet grasped the fact that,
whereas the average Malay is about as big a liar
as the average white man, the Dyak’s departures
from truth are always few and never unnecessary.
So, though—chiefly because he couldn’t remember
the Dyak expression—he didn’t tell Jasmi that
she lied, he shook his head, knocked the ashes out
of his pipe, and turned over to go to sleep again.
But here he failed. A saffron streak was already
putting edge to the dark forest-line in the east,
and far and near the air was tortured by the crow-
ing of innumerable cocks.
Cocks? Was not this the day when, for the
honour of a dozen villages, a thousand birds or so
would don the steel and do battle to the death ?
To which great fray had not*he, Medlow, been
invited by Grimbah himself? “Good little girl,
Jasmi, in'her way ; but, like all the rest of ’em, a
consummate liar! What grudge can Grimbah
have against me ? I’ve never done the old chap
any injury !”
But Grimbah—at that very moment mustering
his merry men—was of a very different opinion.
Troubled for many days with gruesome pains in
his cedar-coloured stomach, he had first anointed
that curvilinear receptacle with monkey’s fat, and
had then placed upon an ant-hill in the jungle, as
offering to Jirong, Lord of Death, a little tambok
full of mangosteens. This, Medlow, botanising,
found ; and ate—good, easy man !—the property
of the god ! Which awful act the Orang’s
watchers saw; and now, never again, until the
deadly sacrilege should be expiated, could Grim-
bah’s dignified stomach know its former ease !
And thus, when Medlow, in pyjamas and pipe,
strolled unconcernedly forth to view the prepara-
tions, he found on all sides, not the ready Dyak
cordiality but the shamefaced sulkiness of men
who have orders which they hate but must obey.
* * •
Up the narrow track—through palm and
fern and orchid—toiled Medlow, not unkindly
helped by the tireless Dyaks of his escort. No
use to question them, the white man knew, with
silent Matyag listening in the rear. Saturnine
Matyag, the Celebese—whom the Dyaks hated as
much as they feared him—spoke not a word till
from the teeming jungle they emerged at last upon
a bare and rooky hill, and Medlow, gazing up-
wards, wondered at the regularity of the slope.
“Momang Durat!” said the Bugi then, and
Medlow understood. They were on the crater of
the extinct volcano—a crater, he had heard, filled
almost to the brim with water.
• » *
A dreary scene, beneath a drizzling rain—
the crater-lake of Momang Durat ! The water,
black as ink, stretched quarter-mile across the
circle, with, in the midst, a peaked and rocky
islet —the apex of an inner cone. Upon the sum-
mit of this islet an ironwood post, set deep into
the stone, and, fast to the post with many a crossed
and re-crossed lashing, a man—Medlow! A
sacrifice to Jirong, for four-and-twenty awful
hours he had—as, with a ghastly gaiety he phrased
it to himself —“remained at his post I” Four-
and-twenty hours, too, of continuous rain, or long
ere this an equatorial sun and an uncovered head
would have made an end of things. But, instead
of being frizzled, he was chilled to the bone, and
his eyes were dim with weakness as they swept
the solitary shore—fast fading now into tho misty
Tho doomed man’s mind began to wander. Out
towards him, from the rocky wall, he thought a
giant waded. “Splash! splash!”—he heard the
mighty limbs displace the water. “Could this
be Jirong? Was there, after all, any truth in
such ”—but now the giant swam. Here came his
hideous head along the water—huge and black,
with one vast fiery eye ! His voice,. too ! Surely
for a giant, small and weak. Then, with the
sound, the cobwebs cleared from Medlow’s brain :
it was a human voice that hailed bim near at hand,
The thing upon the water splashed up close, and
to the white man’s side, with a gourd-lamp in her
hand, sprang—Jasmi !
# * *
Directly on Orion’s belt fell Medlow’s re-
opening eyes. He was again a boy at home,
looking up and wondering. Then beneath his
heavy head stirred Jasmi’s faithful arm, and, with
the sound of her voice, it all came back. the
ram had ceased, the moon and stars were out, and
as Medlow rose and saw the severed lashings scat-
tered round he felt that there was yet a door to
“I knew not until midday, Mediloa, whither
they had taken thee ; then straight away I came,
nor took off one of these!”—and Jasmi pointed
to her holiday adornments—the extra armlets, the
cuirass of agate bead-strings, the heavy brass-wire
coil about her shapely neck. “ Would a woman
of thine own people have done as much for thee,
Meddoa?”
But Medlow, patting the little brown face,
answered not. He knew that no white woman
could have done it—breasted, in six hours, 30
mdes of mountain, handicapped the while with a
dozen pounds of brass and a tambok of provisions.
“A float-skin also did I bring,” the girl said,
“ lest thou shoulds’t be too weak to swim. On it
I crossed over, myself,” and she pointed to the m-
fitted bullock-hide of which Medlow s disturbed
imagination had made a giant s head.
Medlow stretched his limbs and thumped his
circulation back. “Let us go, then!” he said.
<< p or Beni-Laut will I make—Kalampu is my
good friend ; and you, my brave little woman,
shall come with me.” Then, for the first time —
and £ be } asb i_the white man kissed poor, faithful
and glad was he afterwards of that kiss.
Q the sn n en water went the pair ;
h ’ n t ‘ he bu l loek . skin , the man holding by
C( * ner £ he swam . No la^p had Jasmi now .
“They know me for thy friend,” she said ; “and,
misgin y they may have followed. Best,
~ j s darkness '’’
ifc ; yas t dark e h> The faint moon
showed them> a 3 they neare( f fche shore, to half-a-
score of watching eyes. Medlow saw nothing, but
Jasmi, stepping gently to a narrow ledge, made
out the crouching forms—started—slipped—and
fell with echoing plunge into the hungry black
water. Medlow, grasping wildly, caught—and
held—a tiny hollow sphere of brass—a garnnong
from Jasmi’s bedang - skirt. Then, heedless of
his foes, he clambered on to theledgeand watched
the water.
Said Matyag’s croaking voice above him—
“ For what waitest thou, white man? Do women
swim, brass-laden, as was Jasmi? ”
The words fell cold upon the white man’s heart,
and, spent as he was, he would have dived. But
strong hands held him ; for, said Matyag : “End
to end, a hundred cocoa-palms would not touch
bottom here. With Jirong now is Jasmi! No
other victim needs he. Go therefore, white man’
whither thou wilt!”
* * »
Retund Medlow’s neck there hangs —the
dearest thing he owns—a little hollow sphere of
brass. No bigger than a hazel-nut —it holds a
world of vain regret!
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
The Sting 1 of the Adder.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
What’s that? Sting in its tail? Shows what
you know about adders. Eh ? All right. Hold
hard, and I’ll tell you chaps a bit of a story.
When I was stationed at—never mind where,
a God-forgotten hole on the Lachlan —there was a
fellow named Jim Foy wanted for horse-stealing.
Jim was a card, and no mistake. Old Foy ruined
himself trying to make a gentleman of him, but it
was no go. He was a hardy, good-looking chap,
well-educated, and could talk as cleverly as a
parson; but he was cursed by every soul who
trusted him.
Well, I rode down to old Foy’s selection ; but
Jim got wind of what was on and “cleared” the
day before. After a while I picked up his tracks
at a slip-rail at the back of the 640-run. My
horse was a Government beast, and a beauty, for a
wonder —good for 50 miles without a sweat.
It had rained a trifle during the night, making
the trail quite easy. I followed the tracks over a
long stretch of the eternal white-box country, and
hung to them through a ticklish bit of brigalow
scrub. Then came another stretch of open forest,
mostly yellow-jacket, some more brigalow; then
across a bit of a dry gully, and I sighted my man
taking things very coolly, I thought. His horse
was feeding, and Jim was sitting down with his
back propped against a tree. As I came up he
never moved a muscle. I pulled out the bracelets
and made a show of my Colt, but he took no
notice. I could see a queer look on his face, and
the sweat was dripping down him.
“What’s it to be, Jim,” I said : “ are you going
to kick, or will you come quietly?” He never
took his eyes off the feet of his pants.
“Quiet, for God’s sake,” he whispered, “there’s
an adder in there !”
“ An adder 1” In a second I slid down from
the saddle and walked cautiously up. I could
only see about eight inches of the tail-end of the
dull, dirty-brown, stumpy body, but there was no
mistaking that the hideous reptile was there sure
enough, wriggling and twisting horribly.
“ He must have got there while I was having a
bit of a doze. He’s trying to work up the leg.
There’s a razor in my saddle pocket. Get it,
quick 1”
Jim was shivering like a leaf, and the sweat
kept pouring off him, but his voice was firm
enough. I admired the fellow’s nerve, for a bite
from an adder means death in no time.
I ran and got the razor. Very carefully he
drew the blade across the cloth, making a triangu-
lar hole about six inches long. Then, with his eye
fixed on the opening, he stretched out his hand to
me.
“I can see him,” he said. “Quick! your
pistol; it’s the only chance I’ve got. I’ll try and
blow his head off.”
I passed him the shooter. He drew a deep,
sighing breath as his long lean fingers closed
firmly round the butt, then jerked his arm quickly
round, and I found myself looking down the
black, ugly barrel of my own revolver. I was had
proper.
“Move an inch, d n you !’’ says Jim, “ and
I’ll blow your brains out.” I stood stock still,
and he lay back on the tree and looked at me.
“Dear friend,” says Jim, in a cold, sneering
sort of way, and putting on what we used to call
his boarding-school manners, “ pardon, I prithee,
this betrayal of such truly magnificent credulity.
(Keep still, curse you !) Such verdant simplicity
is indeed refreshing. It reminds me of an Irish
jackeroo I once saw climbing a kurrajong to look
for pears. Attention! worthy representative of
a majestic law, and bend thy listening ear. The
adder, bless your shiny boots and spotless pants,
is as harmless as you are. (Won’t you keep still !)
The perspiring terror you saw streaming down
my jaws was supplied from the water-bag.
Knowing, dear man, your remarkable ability as a
tracker, I was puzzled how to throw yon off the
scent. Fortune favours the brave—which is pos-
sibly the reason why you are unfortunate.
Excuse my little joke. (Do that again, and I’ll
shoot you as I would a sneaking dingo, blast you!)
About an hour ago, my horse nearly stepped on
this brute, and I was just going to rub him out
when the idea flashed on me, and I’ve been shep-
herding him with loving tenderness, awaiting
thee. When I heard the beat of your horse in the
brigalow, I crushed his head with the heel of my
boot. . You know the scriptural quotation, “Thou
shalt bruise his head and he shall bruise thy
heel.” Unfortunately for you, he failed to accom-
plish his half of the bruising contract. (Ah !
would you?) I owe you this explanation as I
wish to point out your utter incapacity as a thief-
catcher. Your tracking ability is merely instinct,
whereas the adder episode is, I flatter myself, an
indication of brains —yes, dear boy, brains. But
I must be going, though it is hard to tear myself
away from such pleasant company.”
He shook the adder on to the ground and sprang
to his feet.
“ Some credulous folk assert that his nibs has a
sting in the tail. You’ll be able from experience
to deny this foolish theory in future, eh? Mean-
while, I’ll trouble you to lead up the nags. I’ve
developed a roving propensity of late and the pro-
spect of ten years’ compulsory confinement has
made me somewhat restless. Now, hurry ! and
don’t try any shuffling with me or, by God, I’ll
put a dark-brown taste in your mouth.”
What could a fellow do? I’ve gob as much
pluck as the next man, but I’m not a fool. I
trotted up the horses, he mounted mine and led
his own, turned in the saddle to inform me that it
was about 25 miles back to town, recommended
salt and hot water as a remedy for blistered feet,
begged to be remembered to the inspector, ex-
tended his fingers from the point of his nose, and
cantered off. He’s never been heard of from that
day to this.
I lost my jacket and got fired out of the force.
Curse mo if they didn’t try to prosecute me for
assisting Jim to escape. Hard, wasn’t it !
d d hard !
So now you know something about the~stmg in
an adder’s tail. Who’s got the most tobacco?
BILLIE GRANT.


“ Men I Have Smiled With.”
STAY at :B r xi. "fc o xx. 9 m
NHXiannon
the langham hotel.
CHAS. FRINGE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Beat Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs. Cigars. &c.
■ First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS ; 30s. per WEEK.
f you VISIT lOrisloa.**®, don,t
forget to Smile and stop with
j XdVCX/CY - G-IR- -A. XsTT,
"■ ” SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
CASINO.
PARKER’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL ranks as
“ Thk Australia ” of the North Coast.
CLOUTIER'S BALLINA COACHES will be
BETTER PATRONISED than the Lismore to
the Tweed Railway.
LISMORE.
CRUICKSHANK’S Commercial Hotel is the
Travellers’ Home on the Northern Rivers.
Gr
REAVES’
GRAFTON.
FAMILY
Is undoubtedly UP TO DATE.
HOTEL
OU
SOUTH GRAFTON.
CAN’T BEAT COWAN’S HOTEL
By Much.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
MACLEAN.
mRAYELLERS and others pronounce Walter J.
L Folblgg’s Commercial Hotel Comme ilfaut.
KATOOMBA.
Temora House,
A High-class BOARDING HOUSE, pleasantly
situated, well recommended. Porter meets all
trains. 355. a Week ; 6s. a Day. Reduction
for Visitors remaining a Month, also for Families.
Mrs. DALE.
MOUNT VICTORIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family- and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria, Reasonable terms ; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-oub
grounds. Goach to the Oaves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
Jg'ATOOMBA, BLUE MOUNTAINS.
Balmoral House.
Visitors, Tourists, or Invalids, will find comforts
of a refined HOME at above ; good airy rooms,
excellent table and attendance. Terms, Two
Guineas. Private suites if required. Trains
met. Address, MANAGER.
MOSS VALE.
aOODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railwaj
Station) is where we always stay.
MOSS VALE.
QYDNEY and MELBOURNE TOURISTS and
TRAVELLERS find every convenience at JOHN-
SON’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
KATOOMBA.
MR. J, BLAKEY’S “ Sydney Livery
Stables,” in Cascade-street, offer the
very best of vehicles in the place. Ladies sulkies
of the newest pattern.
Ladies’ Macks thoroughly trained.
WENTWORTH PALLS,
BLUE MOUNTAINS.
Visitors from the seven Australasian provinces
will find the most princely accommodation, and
the grandest views at
Toll’s Hotel ■, Wentworth Falls,
Miscellaneous.
BBOU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
J.
SOLD in PARIS by
FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
ows
>• EMBROCATION,
mm
SA
IE
4SOLO
|e\/erxwhere{l .
m
o
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 11.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the, subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Friday, 23rd
February, 1894,
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
The Bulletin's 19 Missing Word Competition Coupon* —U r -* 11.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin ” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Friday, February 23rd, 1801.
The Marquis of Lome suggests the formation of an “ Order of the Star of Aus-
tralasia and Canada ” as a reward for politicians who have boomed the cause of imperial
Federation. The brightness of the lies in the fact that every other ‘ colony,
right down to little Montserrat and Walfisoh Bay, will be aggrieved because its name
isn’t mentioned in the pompous title of the order, and the end of Imperial Federation
will be worse than the beginning.
Name -
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received— so deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
ths total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
#
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
-.V,
Bulletin ” Series, 3STo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
EDITION 1
OF
“A Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
K
Bulletin ” Series, KTo. 3.
tt
The Last of Six
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewood.
Opinions of the Press :
“ The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, * The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a par The
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives in these farawav
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who are fond of
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”— S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893. 01
“ No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc, and the secret of this is fw
he has, by many years experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcely any other writer
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under notice he has given us some of
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain.”— Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893. 8 or
J Present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from long contact and keen observation, striking pictures of
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as happen in wM
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men ‘ The Last of Six ’is a teVriKt
tale of cannibalism treachery and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous, but which Mr. Favenc makes of
thrilling interest. The Haunt of the Jmkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, but is itself relieved fromfho
smanimnn nf imitaiion Iw ffi.it,hfnl lnon.l minin' n.nrl n. crmLnsminrln, nf me
Telegraph.
July 15, 1893.
“ ‘ The Last of Sixand other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney: The Bulletin Newspaper Co ) This is a collection of w
graphic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the stories here are
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection. The present issue forms the third of T™
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences. — Australian Star, July 15, 1893. Cl 01 IHE
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.


Medical.
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
Delicately fragrant as the Rose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
ATKINSON’S
EATJ DE COLOGNE
superior to all others for the fineness
of its Aroma, its strength, and its ex*
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION J— Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade .dark,—a “ White Kose >
and address in full.
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
&T STEEL It’S GALVANIC
GENT’S BCLT
m
ELECTRIC BELTS 'm
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pastes, we hear they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, rheuma-
tism, sciatica, neuralgia, lumbago, gout, indigestion
liver disease, &c. STEELE'S BELTS forwarded" imme-
diately upon receipt of £2—registered letter, post-order
or cheque. When ordering Belts, send waist measure
above the hips.
A.. Jtrt. C3-re^ory,
Mixkrva Cuamhkrs,
126 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flashings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer Is earnestly invited to trv one box of these
Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
£CH4
<b
PATENT
PILLS.
: :
e:
*
■>.
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
is a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
-iring about all that is required. No female should
he without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Hkecuam's Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—FuH directions are given with each box.
lALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
*0 THri
ELECTORS
* —OF —*
KTew Soutli Wales;
ALSO,
LADIES, MOTHERS, STOREKEEPERS.
We wish to draw your attention to the WONDERFUL BARGAINS we are
offering at the
GREAT SALE
NOW ON, of the CELEBRATED STOCK of RILEY BROTHERS, and
which are now being SOLD at EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES at
the Premises lately occupied by
RILBT BROTHERS.
Country Friends.— Send us a TRIAL ORDER, and we guarantee that it will
be executed in a manner equal to any other house in the city.
tg~ NOTE THE ADDRESS:
Riley Brothers’ Old Premises,
George Street .] SYDNEY. [Oxford Street.
R. Kayes & Co.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of IST Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS; &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'(LOCK.
Mrs. KILMTIKTSTEIR
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN W ELL DURING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
ò
Manager
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Anstrdia.
Australia-I*. J. Mac William., 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
IF’rocL C. Passau,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, am> OCULIST OPTICIAN,
4:04: <3-IE O ZRG-IE S T IR, IE IB T , SYIDIsTEY,
TTAS just received a NEW STOCK of reliable Gold and Silver Mulches, ,/eirel/eri/. Gold and Steel
Spectacles, suitable for Christinas Presents and New Year’s Gifts. '
REAL BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4 b per Pair. Complete Price-list forwarded on Application.
Medical.
The First Step
FOK
NERVOUS MEN
APPLY FOR
Ur. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
DFi m. per hit,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS ASd INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. VVm. Johnstone
Ph.D,, F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Miscellaneous.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. t>cl.
•Ufa
ò
ó
/Jewry HeATtff
.TRADE MARK
Sole Agents for HENHY HEATH.
iPrice Bs. 3d.
A Splendid Hat for Boating-, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three ntigligd shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
Car. 3E3C. SMITH Vfe SOM,.
HAT MANUI'ACTUBKRS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND ITGOR RESTORE t
hi Four H'eeis by the use of
ò
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Record s Essence of Life restores Health and,
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated, constitut ions,
regenerating all the. important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 13s, or four quantities in one. for .'llls. Freight,
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Perry S Vo., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOERNK.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. Hi Sold & Co., Pltt-st., Sydney
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY , N.S.W.)
The Pulque Weekly—Australia’s Vuuparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“Tb.e Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
Anew Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency,
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin's conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
week!}- press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin's inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now alfiicts British humanity.
Against the clabns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin's red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to he addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi.
ations to be addressed to J. F. AhcHlbalu.
