

CADBURY'S COCOA
absolutely pure THEREFORE BEST.
r
4>
Parsons 3 Flaked Oatmeal
R. 6. WATKINS «S& CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—l'OR—
writing and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
r 4>
&
O
o
C
<R A c{aJoCK>
o
c
o
m
&
o
-i
V
r>
'/4£i
It. A, ficrve}, Agent, ao i’iU-nl . Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl of Jersey,
Lord Carington, etc.,
335 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING AND HAND BAGS, ETC.
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
KST” Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
m
] «-
Pi
f 5
O*
T Hfc
2 1
pxISJS
y
'£Ss£
Ilf It
Tke Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney
Proprietor.
H. THORPE
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
Duff, K.C.M.G.
'—THE—.
M.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO,
(LIMITED)
FOR
MILK
CREAM ..
ICE
RUTTER
FISH
CAME ..
POULTRY
PASTRY, Ac.
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“ Golden Star ” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exqinsite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered hy the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME.
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Sydney, Ist July, 1893.
11. PATESOY,
Manager.
y
«ar, s& o.
Sole uSk.gj® :KlL ' fcei 1» UVTe-w Soutli
SR3O
■Wales tor Messrs. Clayton anti SJbmttlewortli.
—THE—
Oldest Plough-makers
In the World.
THE BUILDERS
OK THE
First Iron Plough in the World.
We have a reputation for Plough'
making all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
which is not to be equalled by any
of the younger and lesti experienced
firms.
! wrzm
o
-
-THE-
Howard Digging Plough.
The moat perfect Cultivator
yet made.
To be had in all descriptions.
ALL CLASSES
—OF-
Agricultural Implements
and M U lIIMJIv.
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely-extended SHOW-
ROOM .
J. &( O. Howard, 280 & 280 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 14— No. 734 I
I Saturday, March 10, ISU4.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.


FOR
“ Tb.e Bulletin. ”
MISSING-WORD
Coupon
SEE
Inside BACK Cover.
Medical.
WHITE ROSE
Fragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Use none but Atkinson’s,
the original and only true Essence.
ATKINSON S
OPOPAMAX
WOOD VIOLET
HELIOTROPE
TREVOL
and other well known Perfumes an
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Sireet, London.
CAUTION J— Only Kenoine with whleld-
«h«pe blue and yellow label and usu?
1 Trade Mark—a “ white Rose
andaddress in fuM. JL
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
iearn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling' after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flashings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
oh the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nbrvous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
mfferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust,
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Bcecham's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
PATENT
PILLS.
Beech am’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, <fcc., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and »ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkrcham’S Couoh
Piu.s a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 66 pills), and at
Es. 9d. (t reble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
tvrrywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
BT
“PRICE WARUNQ.”
PRICE 1* by Post Is. 3d.
SLAP BANG! HERE WE ARE AGAIN.
With. £lOO ! £lOO ! £lOO !
TO BE GIVEN AWAY!
Aa Good as a CONSULTATION, and very much fairer than some. The cry is STILL THEY
“ LEGER”
Tobacco
COME for the Celebrated
“LEGER”
Tobacco
“LEGER”
Tobacco
THE MANUFACTURERS of this first-class brand are right up to date, and to show their appre-
ciation of the support received from the public for the half-year ending December 17, 1893, have
determined to distribute another BONUS, double the amount of the last, viz.: One Hundred Pounds.
£lOO
12 Prizes !
50100 50100
among smokers of the “ LEGER,” divided into
12 Prizes !
as follows :
To the person forwarding to the agent the largest number of "‘‘Lever”’paper'taps or
labels from the plugs during the Six Months ending 10th JUNE, 1894, IWENIY-
FIYE POUNDS ...
For the Second highest number, TWENTY POUNDS
For the Third highest number, TEN POUNDS
For the Fourth highest number, NINE POUNDS
For the Fifth highest number, EIGHT POUNDS
For the Sixth highest number, SEVEN POUNDS
For the Seventh highest number, SIX POUNDS
For the Eighth highest number, FIVE POUNDS
For the Ninth highest number, FOUR POUNDS
For the Tenth highest number, THREE POUNDS
For the Eleventh highest number, TWO POUNDS
For the Twelfth highest number, ONE POUND
50100
12 Prizes !
£25
20
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
.£lOO 0 0
Those who have not tried it should do so at once.
Ask for “LEGER” Tobacco ... .... Price ONE SHILLING per Block.
Country Customers are particularly requested to forward orders at once to the sole agent, Mr.
M SIMMONS, so that all consumers may start on equal terms.
FUN and SMOKING will commence on 18th DECEMBER, 1893, and competition closes on
161h^UNE^lnd along w ; t h out delay. Facts are stubborn things, and it is a fact that 5000
CASES of this favourite Brand have been sold and consumed in N.S. Wales in six months.
The manufacturers of the “ LEGER ” are determined to give smokers the benefitPf this handsome
bonus, and instead of advertising on walls, placards and in newspapers or'sending_o.R ehdiorate and
gaudy showcards (which all cost money), they make the LHOrhiit of obi JirviUrC AliiiY
rather than spend money on FOL DE ROLS. . , „ T ~ , , .
Smokers of the “LEGER ” get the best Dark Tobacco in the World, and everyone has a chance
of securing a magnificent Bonus as well.
Don’t Forget—£loo! £100! £100! £100! to be Given Away!
COMPETITION CLOSES .... 16th JUNE, 1894.
BONUS DISTRIBUTION .. . 35th JUNE, 1894.
PARCELS of TAGS will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, who is
authorised by the manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
aU Country Storekeepers can obtain a SAMPLE FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales, on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
m- APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PEKiEIiYj
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” — Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., «fec., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Free Freaoriptions
Are to be found in the ami Infe,
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. _
ptr A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
II
■ JL There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of theso grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions arc supplied for their use
inTvery disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM Manu-
factored only at 78 Nkw OxfoßD-st., London. EiT Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
suurious
DOWS
IAEMBROCATIOJ}/
\\<sOLD W
m
f
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. CSc3L.
gO&T >;C00lr
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier. -
They fall into two or three migligd shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest (cited
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture, of velvet.
G-. H. SMITH & S ON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for
Price
HMBY HEATH.
9a. 6d.
M ANHOOD.
HEALTH. STRENGTH AND VIGOR RBSTOREI
In Four Weeks by the use of
ď
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY. 5
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of. Life* restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and. debi'itatid constitutions,
regenerating all the. important elements of the human frame.
In cases of ISs, or four quantities in one for .Ills. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope ,
Agents for Australasia—Perry it: Co., i 3 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, M KLBO URNE.
Agentsfor N.S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
d
from an
clu
•is
_l
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from alt funs oj the iuor.d and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
dualities possessed bv Dr. Pierce a
Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
iELT. Head the lei tors:
From Australia.
Mk. W. H. Puioe. of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W.. writes as to'* o '*? -
“To W. H. Soul h Vo., (Agents-for Ur.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), Ifts Pitt St-,
Sydney; Sirs;—l am in receipt ot
and books of instruction, and can sat id
Say that your advertisements are very truthful in regai n re
the statement that a man feels the electrical strong
thohel t as soon as it isplaced on his body, for I felt theetlec
of the bolt as soon ns I placed it on, and believe me, i
a sure advocate of this belt.’’
From England.
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 78 Aston Bt;,BiminKharo.
sponksns follows; “I can say that I have felt better, agr j
deni, since I have used your Onlvanio Cbairi Bell.
thank you very much. 1 have taken patent medicmes m^
I shall not tnko any more. You can use my name in pr»
of your Bolt.” rrom Ame rica. .
Mn.J.W.PonLMAN, Tacoma, U.S A ..writes- Youri
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a
could not do, font has cured mo ot Sciatic Bheum» #
and Weak Back, also, which came on throUKha fa
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell IBj£eton tnJ Da k
andalthonghlgotupasifi^iingh^hßDpened.tMO^
troubled mo over since until I tried your belt.
now I have felt as I used to at to. Dplt*.
jrs”Avoid all Inferior imitations of prp 2,” and
Call, or write for free descriptive Pamphl ,N O-
flea <e mention this fin fee When you address. " **• * th°
“The Last of Six’’
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN."
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System— one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nqbility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper. • • . ~
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest applianceS' fbr high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of .improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian 'journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The. Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
"progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clahns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same The Bulletin is
no’t connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE
. Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed ti
WiI.LIAM MaclkoP, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payablej Editorial comm uni.
a I ions to be addressed to J. F. AhcHihaLU,


Medical.
J
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales,
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
“NERVOUS & SKIN COMPLAINTS, ■’
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions;—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vin6s will, on receipt of J£X !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Vin6s with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis’
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Clxargo KTotlalng
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should writ j to Dr. J. Vin6s for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may’Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.ra. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m, to
9 p.m.
Address all communications /
Dr. JECKELL VIKTBS,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
THIS is the ONE and ONLY Eleotrio Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
l 6r cause( l. and restore the wearer to ROBUST
f 11,-H- This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
..V'lC current that can be felt by the wearer through
ah WEAK Barts. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
j[ ou - If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
cal and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
ana price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
BEEP IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
onic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY TUKK
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
152
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuohorea, &c., &c., citlicr sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by J. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
'JULES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
TRICE -Is.; Pei POST, Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
12TOUKTG JVTT^IXr
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches;
giddiness ; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos orcircles
round a candle ; cold hands arid teet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. Tins
book will be of great assistance in making you
thorougldy acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
dr. gibbons
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIIt,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed, toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor aM themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS Ims documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
L 37 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
{Tiro doors from Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
uni
ITS
“ he (Sydney <§offee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
| SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15a
With Board 80s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
I With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
; OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4a
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
A’ith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Medical.
LEPROSY,
Scrofula, Eczema, Ulcers, Erysipelas, Itch, Cancers,
Scurvy, Blotches, Foul Sores, Pimples, Ringworms,
Freckles, Scales, Barbers’ Rash, Chapped Hands, Chil-
blains, Scald Head, Grog Blossoms, Mange in Horses and
P<)gs, and all other Loathsome Skin Diseases, Guaranteed
to be Speedily Eradicated and Permanently Cured by
Dr. KOCH’S Wonderful, Never-failing Skin-
Cleansing and Purifying Solution.
The influx of Asiatics is spreading LEPROSY over Aus-
tralia most alarmingly. No Skin Eruption should be
neglected. LEPROSY lurks behind very simple-looking
Cutaneous Affections. Numerous sufferers from various
chronic skin diseases, who have baffled the faculty and
been turned out of hospitals incurable, have been per-
fectly restored by a few applications of Dr. KOCH’S
marvellous solution. It has cured thousands of all manner
of skin diseases. Surprising testimonials of its wondrous
efficacy arrive by every mail. It DESTROYS all sorts of
Insects, and drives away all kinds of Noxious Vermin. It
kills the contagious germs of every disease, is the best
DISINFECTANT in the World, and absolutely non-
poisonous. We don’t employ either agents, hawkers or
travellers, therefore, to avoid being injured and swindled
by unscrupulous itinerant vendors of spurious imitations,
Dr. KOCH’S Genuine Skin-purifying Solution must be got
DIRECT from us. Secure unobservable packages, 10/6,
21/- 42 '-, sent any where in N.S.W., and to any Australian
or N.Z. port, carriage free, bn receipt of P.O. Orders.
Orange Butter Co.,
Market Buildings, deorge-sl., Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents. All communications confidential.
L adies.
We Post to any address in the Colonies a pair of our
handsome, engraved Bar Brooches for stamps, 26. Our
Auranian Gold Langtry Fob Chain for Ladies, stamps
29; equal to real Gold.
Faulkner & Co., 385 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Shipping.
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
flie steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under;—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York. «
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON ... ... £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d;
STEERAGE £3O IBs. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
the cold of Cape Horn.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal- contract -with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ,, and
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON ; £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
ELECTRIC PILLS.—For General Debility,
Weakness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseurs,
M.D., Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in
the world.) Electric Pills are the most speedy
and most powerful remedy in the world. One
box will be sufficient, and in even the weakest, the
oldest, and most shattered, work a miracle, while
perfectly harmless, leaving no bad after effects.
Guaranteed Never to Fail, Worth their weight in
gold. Price, 10s. 6d., post free, from the sole
agent, W. PARSONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke-street
east, Melbourne.
MANHOOD.
Debility, Weakness, Lost Dower, Ac., from Folly
or any Cause. Guaranteed Cure. Treatise posted
FREE, sealed. Write. Prof. Robt. Herman, French
Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELBOURNE.
ySEKS
—29 -
YORK‘STREET
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
r».o. Box 020.
j Assisted by Dr, EMSLIE, M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
! Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board of N.S.W. and N.Z.
DEBILITY.
Nervous weak, overworked, ambitionless men and women, with- aching heads, w-eak stomachs and
Wlln footsteps who are billions, spiritless, exhausted, debilitated, pale, easily tired have bad tasting
months on rising, inability for exertion, foul breath, furred or yellow tongue* whose deep is un
rXXintr or broken by dreams, who brood over their troubles real or imaginary, and to whom the
world looks black and dreary, will find in our treatment a boon, a nerve food, nerve tonic and nerve
alterative, that cannot be found elsewhere, and which will rapidly and pleasantly restore them to
HEALTH, STRENGTH & VIGOR.
All who suffer from brain and spine affections, fits, paralysis, sleeplessness (an early symptom of
naralvsis) varicocele, consumption, bronchitis, asthma, liver and heart derangements, gout, rheumatism,
sciatica indigestion, poor blood, eruptions on the face, kidney and bladder troubles, womb affections,
chrome diseases of men and women, no matter from whatever causes arising, should CON
ana an cm on SUIiT Dr. SPEER, as, in consequence of
HARD TIMES,
HE HAS REDUCED HIS FEES EXACTLY One-Half.
A3T Those CONTEMPLATING MARRIAGE, or who suspect taint in their blood, or weakness
Should write to Dr. SPEER for Advice and Treatment. He wil cure all local and constitutional
complaints, and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Consult(itions Free,
Curable Cases Guaranteed.
PILLS.
AMERICAN “VIGOR” PILLS, for Debility,
Lost Vitality, Weakness, etc., 55., or Lis. for
five boxes. Post free.
“FEMALE” PILLS, for Irregularities an* 1
Obstructions from whatever cause, 10s. ami
20s.


-iwwii; '■ 1 '■ 'm.i^
*vVh . • »>ss~
■ 1 •■»
Petty’s Family Hotel* Sydney*
WYNYARD SQUARE;
U UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Lfirge, well-ventilated Bedrooms,
Hot and Cold Water Baths,
Ladies' Ss Gentlemen's Dining & Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’H6te as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
Business Announcements.
f M A N.U FAt TURJEjjj
\mjrn
MERCER^;
PRIDDY'S
HATS
at once
PRO CLAIM
TUB
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
"W orld.-renowzi.ed I
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
* 433 GE3RGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s.,
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Tost carefully attended to.
d
SHIEST
O&0BST/
§£WIKS
machine
(Went© \
ißefore any other '
rWWD FOR CIRCULAR Of ask yOUf
storekeeper to get you one
- FROM V?
d
a
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 18/0 each ; Plainer Finish,
7/6 each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Awarded ritlZK by lioyal Agri-
cultural Society.
W. Jno. Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter-st., Sydney
ď
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
Limited.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, G-aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
**■ Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
A merican Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments Jor Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
merits and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &*c., are easy 0/ access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. 9
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
• Plum*
đ
TUB
‘Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding We
can highly recommend this brand to the general'public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to its merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG Sl AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 163 Palmer Street, Sydney.
** T ALES ° K ™ K CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Stjucbt, SvtJnkv.
Medical.
Beetn Beetr
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
* . ..'riiT'lTlT, - '
* W .iLtCS' 'i'»
IS (X) CURES COLDS,
ABSOLUTELY " COUGHS,
PURE. * INFLUENZA, Ae.
Sold ty all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF h. CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
MASSEY & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY, YOUNG. N.S.W.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S, WALES,
* ■' *
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
TATIONERS’ HALL CO.
(C. E. FULLER & CO.)
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d.
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, good quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good quality, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.
OFFICE APRON FILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each.
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographic Pens, 2s. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from Sid., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price ; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, Moro. Leather, from 6d.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONERS' HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
885 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
Banking.
—THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... ~ 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and B.lls collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
■JIHE ROYAL BANK OF~QUEENSLAND
(limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP «, - £300,000
RESERVE LIABILITY ~ .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND 23,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Banh of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid-up .. £200,000.
Reserve Liability .. 250,000.
Head Office - Brisbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Medical.
TEETH.-A COMPLETE' SET, ONE
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 6/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages:
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HAC K ETT writes: “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post, free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours : from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Sun Cool and Refresher in the Homsi
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, 4c.
And preserves the THE BKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OB HARD WATER,
... More effectually than any other preparation.
Ills delightfully Coolihci and Rf-fiirshino if applied to
the Face or Hands after being out in the Bom. Tennis-
playing. Yachting, *e. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Bom, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, Is. & 2s. 6d. Sole Makers:
M. BE FT IT AM A SON, Chemists, Cheltenham. England I
FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT DUOS., Sydney.
d
Why he without a Windmill
When you can “HARNESS THE WIND” with one of our
Solid Steel Aermotor Self-Regulating and St >rm-
Defying WINDMILLS, and at once have an untiring
servant that will do your work either day or night?
This wonderful
WINDMILL
is about
THAN ANY OTHER
50
Per Cent, more POWERFUL
BESIDES BRING
Per Cent. CHEAPER,
WINDMILL in EXISTENCE.
Our Bft. Mill at .£l2 10s. is equal to other makes of 12ft.
Our 12ft. Mill at £2O is equal to other makes of 10ft.
And our Catalogue explains the reason why. Let us send
you one— free by post.
OUR SPECIALTY
—lB
(Agricultural & i§airy (Machines & (Implements
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION,
So, if you have a FARM, ORCHARD, DAIRY, VINE-
YARD, or GROW ANY KIND OF crops, wo are the people you
want to see or write to.
James Martin & Co.,
Market and Clarence Streets,
SYDNEY - .
MfG c
PUMPS
—OF—
Every Size,
Every Style
amt for
EveryFurpose.
London & Melbourne Tailoring' Go.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
We are the Originators of the famous SCOTCH and WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED SUITS
TO MEASURE at 45/ TROUSERS, 12/6.
BOUND CORKSCREW SUITS, SO- .. .. TROUSERS, I 0«
The FINEST QUALITY in SI?RGES from 50 - .. TROUSERS, 15 -
IST- Country Customers please WHITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS.
LONDON a MELBOURNE TAILORING VO., 31 Ersl.iuc Sired-
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manaoek.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 14—U0.73i,
SATUKHAY, MARCH 10, 1894.
Price, 6d.
Jjj
y j
issEl
yg/-/'
ANOTHER SPLENDID OFFER BY N. S. WALES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Thk Buli.ktin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Thk Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ichom toe do not ivish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetoum, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land. and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with is. id.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, MARCH 10, 1894.
Exit Gladstone.
The retirement of Mr. Gladstone from the
British Premiership, which is now an
accomplished fact, means the disappearance
—for the time at least—of the most com-
manding figure in British politics. Even at
the age of 85 years, however, it would be
rash to assume that Gladstone can retire
permanently from office. Old age, blind-
ness, deafness, and all the other afflictions
with which he is credited may come upon
him, yet the yearning to return and be again
the leader of the Liberal-party will probably
prove irresistible, and the end of the century
may, as likely as not, find him scrambling
for office once more. He will be over 90
years of age then, but even at 90 it is diffi-
cult to imagine Gladstone not scrambling
for office. Nothing but death or hopeless
decay is ever likely to quench his desire to
be again the first figure in the empire, and
to exhibit his familiar collar on the Treasury
benches. He retired once before, and pre-
sently grew weary of his retirement, and
now it is quite possible that he is going to
spend the remainder of his old age in
periodical retirements and fitful returns to
politics. Most great politicians, and many
politicians who are not great, spend their
last years in lagging impotently on the public
stage, and Gladstone will most likely go
the undignified way of the majority.
# # *
There is nothing especially magnificent
about his retreat ; in fact, it is rather a weak
and ineffective exit than otherwise. He
does not retire after a great victory nor after
i great defeat. The principal work of his
life was to have been the settlement of the
Irish question, and he leaves the Irish ques-
tion still unsettled. The House of Lords has
stood in the way of all his great projects, and,
with an astonishing slowness of apprehension,
it seems that he only realised within the last
few months the necessity of shifting that
selfish, autocratic, callous, brainless, bowel-
less, and perpetually obstructive institution
before anything definite could be done. As
he had not the time nor the strength for this
undertaking he retires, leaving the House of
Lords where it was. If he had 20 years
of youth and energy left he might have
cleared away the hereditary obstacle and done
something great after its removal. As it
was, he spent sixty years in slowly learning
why it was he had been able to do so little,
and he only acquired the knowledge when
he was too old to have any use for it.
He leaves the two greatest works of his life
unfinished —or, rather, he leaves one of them
unfinished and the other not begun. The
last forty years of his life were spent in a
ceaseless conflict with the Peers—in per-
petually rolling the same stone up the same
hill and never coming to any definite stop-
ping-place. He made many new peers, in
the vain hope of liberalising the House of
Fossils, and they all became his enemies
sooner or later. Yet, until within the last
two years, he never seemed to know that
the peerage couldn't be made liberal; that
the curse of fossildom was in its blood and
bones and vitals, and that he was merely
putting trimmings upon a cancer that was
past all remedy.
• » *
Gladstone’s mind was always of the slow-
moving order. He began life as a rampant
Tory, and is more or less Tory even to this
day. He came of an old slave-holding
family—one of those who built Liverpool out
of the bones of the African, and cemented it
with his blood. In his early Parliamentary
career he opposed slavery in theory, but
objected to emancipation in practice. He
opposed Irish Church reform also, and had a
bitter hatred of non-sectarian education.
He was a vehement upholder of the Episcopal
establishment, with all its bigotry, dullness,
intolerance and oppression, and of its con-
comitant, the British squirearchy. He was
likewise a consistent supporter of the cause
of property and an admirer of the old,
illiterate order of things whereby the un-
lettered British Hodge was kept in due sub-
jection to his pastors and masters and those
who were placed in authority over him.
And even ivhen he became converted to
nominal Liberalism he only abandoned his
old bigotries reluctantly and one at a time—
in fact, they are only in the process of gradual
abandonment to this day. In the sixties his
reverence for the cause of property dimin-
ished—or else the necessity for strengthen-
ing the Liberal party increased—so far as to
induce him to suggest a very moderate and
cautious extension of the fi’anchise. Also,
he realised the iniquity of a State Church so
far as to induce him to suppress the crum-
bled, wrecked, and practically impotent
Irish Church, though he left alone the
powerful and equally iniquitous establish-
ments of England and Scotland, and they
remain intact to this hour. And, despite his
sympathy with Ireland, the people of Wales,
who are as heavily burdened as Ireland
was with a foreign Church, and a foreign
clergy, and an utterly hated creed that is sup-
ported by English bayonets, entreated him
during many years for assistance and got
none. The Irish Church abolition was ap-
parently an expedient rather than a matter
of conviction ; in fact, Gladstone’s whole
career was, more or less, a series of expe-
dients, and a constant temporising with the
necessities of the hour.
• • *
Still he accomplished great things. He
passed the Ballot Act, which broke the
power of the clergy and the squirearchy to
terrorise the masses into voting the Conser-
vative ticket under penalty of ostracism and
starvation. He established compulsory edu-
cation, and the miserably illiterate English
people started on a new epoch. Hefurther en-
larged the franchise, and tinkered considerably
with the Irish land-laws —though still with a
profound respect for the blessed rights of
property. He abolished the ridiculous
system whereby military commissions were
bought and sold ; and he tried coercion and
.military oppression in Ireland, and failed
miserably. Then he tried to set Ireland free
and failed in that also, and in these and
other failures the latter years of his life
flickered away. In addition to the great
measures already alluded to he passed a
multitude of smaller ones, mostly of a
beneficial character ; in fact, ho probably
did more for Britain than any other single
statesman in modern history. Yet, with it
all, he remained more or less a Tory to the
end. The ago moved faster than he did,
and gradually left him behind. He never
lost his solemn and holy reverence for pro-
perty, and even when the country was in its
worst difficulties the idea of levying a land-
tax, and making the great landholders of the
nation contribute something approaching
their fair share of revenue, was utterly beyond
his comprehension. The accumulation of
huge estates and the curse of landlordism
were driving the British people from the
country to the cities, and were destroy-
ing agriculture and obliterating the bone
and sinew of the nation ; but his profound
British regard for the blessedness of vested
interests effectually prevented his interfer-
ence. He believed in all the old, reliable
British fetiches freetrade, free competi-
tion, freedom of contract, and the rest. The
idea that the State should seriously attempt
to relieve or abolish poverty was abhorrent
to him as an interference with that other
British god—the law of demand and supply.
And the more idea that anyone should dream
that poverty was capable of abolition aroused
a smile of lofty contempt on the hawklike
visage that loomed up behind his gigantic
shirt-collar. The law of demand and supply
declared that it was a necessary element of
civilisation, and to Gladstone that alleged
law was as sacred as Dagon was in Gath.
# « •
Everything that bore any acknowledged
resemblance to Socialism was regarded by
Gladstone with a fine old British loathing.
All-round Payment of Members, as a system
would have led to the appearance of Labour-
politicians in the Chamber hitherto sacred
to the gentlemen of England, was entirely
beyond what he regarded as the range of
practical politics. He had no particular
sympathy with suffering, unless in the shape
of Bulgarian atrocities, or the oppression of
Italian patriots in the Two Sicilies. He
studied classics instead of humanity, and
devoted his spare time to maundering among
the bye-ways of defunct Greek literature.
Like S ieyes, he was a maker of constitu-
tions. If he had enjoyed the power and the
opportunity he would have given Great
Britain the most theoretically perfect con-
stitution on earth, and when it was finished
the dirt and foulness and poverty of the
British cities would have been not one whit
the better, and the record of deaths from
hunger and misery would have unrolled
itself just as before, and the city landlord
and the country squire would have ground
the faces of the poor as they had done
through all the ages of history. All these
things, in Gladstone’s opinion, lay outside
the region of practical politics, and the law
of competition had to settle them, and they
had to be decided by the grinding of the
twin millstones of demand and supply.
Gladstone, at all events, would not interfere
with them, for he was a constitution-maker,
and nothing more. He made exceedingly
beautiful constitutions, it is true, but there
or thereabouts his usefulness ended.
# * •
Gladstone’s political career has been
mainly that of a brilliant opportunist. Every-
thing which he commended in recent years he
contemned in years before, though when he
changed sides he usually contrived to create
an impression that his conversion was al-
together genuine. What he did was protably
done mostly for his own purposes —not for
money, for his honesty in financial matters
was beyond all question, nor for titles or
dignities or vulgar gewgaws, but for Power.
He was constant in nothing save in the con-
viction that the whole social problem of
hunger and misery and hopeless poverty was
one with which he had no concern. His
foreign policy consisted almost entirely in
bullying the weak and truckling to the strong.
It was a policy of drift, and he bullied the
weak and truckled to the strong on no fixed
principle, but merely according to the
exigency of the moment. His Government
knocked under pitiably to every Great
Power which stood in its road, and even to
sturdy and assertive little Powers like Hol-
land and the Transvaal ; but it ferociously
bullied such mouldering little States as
Portugal and Egypt, with hardly a shadow
of a quarrel to excuse its conduct. It
was an eminently peaceful Administration
which was always drifting into war, and in
its wars it met with many defeats and not
one brilliant victory. It was badly mauled by
the Afghans, and badly defeated by the Boers,
and it left part of its military fame in Zululand
and most of the remainder in the Soudan.
But in England eloquence covers more sins
than in any other country on earth, and
Gladstone’s eloquence covered all the sins
of his civil policy, which were many, and
of his military record, which were innume-
rable. Of late he showed many signs
of having outlived his usefulness. He had
apparently reached the end of his progressive
capacity. He could never have become a
Democrat, and he might easily have retro-
graded into that hopeless Toryism from
which, even at his best, he was never very
far removed, so it is probably as well for
Britain that he retires, and all the better for
it if he never comes back.
Floral Shawstralia.
Our recent visitor, Miss Flora L. Shaw, of
London Times, is a lady who sees facets of
Truth, but never the face. Her mind-musket
is good as far as it will carry ; but it is not a
rifle. She is a literary impressionist; and her
writings resemble nothing so much as the
pictures of an impressionist painter, where three
dabs of red, a streak of green, and a brown fog
represent either sunset in Jerusalem, the charge
of the Light Brigade, or a portrait of Henry
Parkes. Miss Shaw is always clever and
entertaining. She took great pains; amassed
and arranged a multitude of facts ; and com-
bined them in a clear and readable narrative.
Her description of phases of Australian life is
accurate and incomplete ; her view of the whole
is incomplete and misleading.
« » #
The key-note of criticism is supplied by Miss
Shaw herself. She is Flora L.—distinctly
Floral—and, in accordance with gracious
custom, the new continent which she has so elo-
quently described must bear the name of the
first intrepid explorer. For though for all
practical purposes Captain Cook discovered us,
Miss Shaw, for journalistic purposes, has re-
discovered us. He found only the real Aus-
tralia ; she, more talented, has invented Floral
Shawstralia. Let a grateful and remote
posterity revere the names of Cook and Shaw
—we beg the lady’s pardon, Shaw and Cook.
• * •
Floral Shawstralia is a strange, a charming
country.
’Tis Greece, but living Greece no more.
There is a Bananaland, a New South Wales, a
Victoria, a South Australia ; but they are not
our South Australia, our Victoria, our New
South Wales, our Bananaland 1 For many
people ours are in the sere and yellow finan-
cial leaf. Miss Shaw’s bloom like Sep-
tember. If only her “emerald-green tracts
of sugar-cane and ruddy acres of rose-tinted
pineapple,” her “ flowing streams of which the
edges are plumed with palms and the water is
often hidden by beds of pink or purple lilies,”
her “ spices that look like fruits, fruits that
look like spices, and flowers of which the parent
stock must surely have grown upon an Oriental
screen,” her “oxen dragging waggons filled
with white and purple fruit ” —if only these
could be brought to elevate the souls of the un-
employed in Queen-street, and Oeorge-street,
and Oollins-street, and King William-street,
and Queer-street generally ! But in “ The
Australian Outlook ” Miss Shaw sees no un-
employed. They are not floral.
# # »
Nearly all women are acute observers ; re-
markably few are skilful writers. Miss Shaw
is both a gifted writer and a keen observer.
Flowers of rhetoric, flowers of eloquence, flowers
of the soul, are rare at the Royal Colonial
Institute, which is a desert only less barren
than the Imperial Sahara. No wonder that the
gratified members applauded a lady who writes
and speaks much better than themselves; no won-
der that the gratified chairman praised “word-
painting which might well pass for copies of the
brilliant productions and gorgeous colouring of a
Burne-Jones.” If the future of Australia de-
pended upon word-painting, Miss SHAwhad made
it secure. Unluckily, there are problems which
cannot be solved in two dips of a picturesque
pen ; and when the fair Flora abandons her
cornucopia and whistles for the owl of Minerva,
that wise bird blinks persistent refusal to her
summons,
# * #
Satirical old Saul Samuel —for surely he
intended satire—said that Miss Shaw “travelled
over the country in a manner very few men
would have done, encountering and defying
difficulties which would have been faced with
reluctance by experienced bustmien.” It will
hardly be credited that on one occasion she was
“ driven for 500 miles in the bush, only crossing
12 stations.” Perhaps, instead of remembering
what Miss Shaw has left undone, we should
rather be grateful that she has done so much.
When we think that in less than six months she
thoroughly explored a continent pearly three
million square miles in area; studied fully its
pastoral industries, its mining industries, its
agricultural industries, and its manufacturing
industries; and acquired a perfect knowledge of
the thoughts, habits, character, and prospects
of nearly four millions of people; it,will readily
be granted that the Times and its representa-
tive have occasion for mutual congratulations.
# * #
No man could have accomplished such a
task ; but Miss Shaw enjoys the immemorial
sex-privilege of jumping to conclusions to
which a slower-witted male must perforce pain-
fully struggle. To be sure, she sometimes
hits the wrong conclusion ; but that matters
little when one is a picturesque word-painter.
Nine people in ten will accept rhetoric instead
of reasoning, prefer eloquence to evidence, and
hug the fallacy that is wrapped in fascinating
phrases. Miss Shaw has remembered enough
of what she saw and heard to build an impos-
ing literary edifice. But the architect of a
still more imposing edifice has been known to
forget his staircases. Miss Shaw has forgotten
her democracy.
• • •
It is awkward that in Australia you cannot
reckon without your democracy. They are an
unpleasant factor in the sum ; but it cannot be
disguised that they are a factor. Miss Shaw’s
admirable inadequacy as a critic arises from her
failure to appreciate the size and character of
this factor. Of course there are picturesque
compensations. When Miss Shaw sees Kanakas,
Chinese, Javanese, Japanese, Malays and
Cingalese at work on a sugar-plantation, she
does not comment on the contrast between the
coloured workers and the men of her own race
idle in the cities. But she does what she can.
She notes that the Kanakas wear “ blue shirts
and trousers,” that the Chinamen have “ black
hats,” and that the “bright costumes” of the
Malays and Cingalese “ harmonise with the
landscape. ” Limitations of function are natural
and inexorable. Flowers spring in Flora’s
foot-prints; but a nosegay cannot be also a
syllogism. Shall we grumble that the rose is
not a potato, that the violet has no vote and
interest, that the lily won’t wash clothes ?
* * *
Miss Shaw is a woman, and women—anyhow,
women as they are now—are essentially aristo-
cratic. They wish to behave nicely and to look
nicely. The democracy is a coarse, vulgar
creature, revolting to dainty feminine instincts.
It sweats ; it makes a noise in eating ; it does
not know what to do with its hands. Every
woman at heart prefers purple and fine linen to
moleskin and bluchers. An aristocrat by
nature, Miss Shaw is aristocratic also by birth
and training. Her father was a soldier —that
is, a member of an aristocratic caste which has
always despised, while battening on, industry.
He was an Indian officer, accustomed to the
spectacle of a white race with its foot on- the
chest of a servile black race. His character
and career must have influenced his daughter.
Miss Shaw is the representative of the most
aristocratic, the most conservative of English
newspapers—the organ of the classes, the foe
of the masses, the defender of privilege,
the foremost opponent of Labour. Labour m
Australia is often highly paid, and women are
cheap labourers and friends to cheap labourers-
They have no notion of self-sacrifice for the
sake of principle, but think (as witness Mrs*
Yates, the Mayor of Onehunga) a penny saved
a penny gained. Miss Shaw is no better than
others. In her progress through Australia , she
saw little or nothing of democratic loaders.
Those she did see reciprocated her distijis •
Her information was drawn almost exclusively
from Governors, from planters, erupJtydM'® °,
various descriptions, bankers, merchants, titlcu
politicians—all species of the genus “ fat man,
all in strong opposition to democracy. I'rom
such a critic, working under such conditions,
what judgment could bo expected on democra-
tic ideals ?
# # * ,
The main questions with which Miss Shaw s


recent lecture deals are coloured labour and
Australian independence. She affirms that
there are really two Australias—a temperate
and a tropical, and that the latter will, in
future, have a large servile population, governed
by a small and aristocratic body of white men.
Not even Miss Shaw’s strong predilections and
limited experience can justify this assump-
tion. All the facts point the other way.
Wherever in Northern Australia there is a
profit for white labour, white men are labour-
ing and profiting. It is not always pleasant
labour ; but that is not the point. The point
is the statement that communities of white
workmen cannot exist in the tropics. The
refutation is the statement that such com-
munities are existing, and that when the first
strain of grapple with the tropical wilderness
is past they exist comfortably. As time goes
on, and the adaptation of Northern modes of
life to Northern conditions grows more complete,
this comfort will increase; and there is no
reason to doubt that a society as stable, and a
civilisation as prosperous, as that of the South,
will eventually be built up in the North.
# • •
Miss Shaw, who spent altogether less than a
fortnight in the tropics, and saw nothing what-
ever of the interior, attaches disproportionate
value to coastal agriculture. She does not
seem to be aware that in the tropics miners far
outnumber agriculturists, and that the mining
industry is by far the most important tropical
industry. The mining class, unquestionably
the best, most intelligent, and most manly of
all Australian working classes, was hardly
taken into consideration by Miss Shaw. True,
miners are intensely democratic; and Miss
Shaw has decided that tropical Australia must
be aristocratic. So she wishes, so she ordains.
We can only do her bidding,
* * •
On the point of Australian autonomy Miss
Shaw has observed to better purpose, though
she concludes that the ndajority favour a con-
tiniiaiice of the Imperial tie. This is probably
Untrue; but opinion is free. Whatever the
present relative strength of the two forces in
Australian thought, there is no doubt that as
the native-born population increases Imperialism
will disappear. It is true that one Hogan, an
Irish M.P. who some years ago spent a few
months in Victoria, and has ever since darkened
Australian counsel by words without know-
ledge, expresses an opposite conviction. There
Is no objection, for it is all a matter of convolu-
tions. Broadly speaking, a man’s intelligence
and capacity depend upon the number of con-
volutions in his brain. Some men have 500
convolutions ; why blame those who have only
five? The Lord made’em.
/ * » m
The Australian Commonwealth will never
consent to merge its growing importance in the
decaying grandeur of England. Even if it
would, it could not; for in opposition stands
the natural tendency to separation of scion from
stock which all growth brings. As the ripe
fruit falls from the tree, as the son on reaching
maturity quits his father’s house, as the
nebula thrown from the whirling nucleus con-
denses and takes an orbit of its own, so these
provinces, as they gradually become populous,
wealthy and stable, will inevitably break the
trammels of restraint which were safeguards in
their youth, and launch forth for themselves on
a career of independence. Miss Shaw naturally
enough regards England as our mother. The
present generation of adult and adolescent Aus-
tralians merely regard England as their mother-
in-law.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
That Bank-Overdraft Book.
Chief among many surprises furnished by the
Mercantile Bank case is, perhaps, the legal
revelation with which Justice Hood paralysed
the lay mind last week. As to the importance
of this revelation, coming as it did from a
Judge accredited with expert knowledge of
financial law, there can be no manner of doubt
whatever. Every holder of bank-stock, every
depositor of cash in the keeping of bank
directorates, every human being who hopes to
be a depositor in the dim future, every hand-
to-mouth toiler interested in the blessed restora-
tion of “ public confidence,” one and all are
advised to take the words of Judge Hood
to heart and consider them in all their
bearings. On Tuesday week, then, a Crown
counsel for the prosecution of Messrs. Davies,
Millidgb and Muntz proposed to put in some
evidence tending to prove that the defendants
aforesaid were aware of the bad character of
certain securities at a time when the balance-
s ieet classified them as good assets, Mr.
Woodward, a liquidator of the Australian
Mortgage, Finance and Agency Cos., was called
upon to affirm the fact that Matthew Davies
represented the bulk of the A.M.F.A. Cos., and
paust, therefore, be aware of the real value of
ivf. 1 5^ e btedness to the Mercantile Bank.
r. Davies’s counsel objected to this seem-
■“g y important point being put for-
ward whereupon the Crown lawyer “con-
ended that it would be evidence if it could
■ e proved that one of the defendants was a
urge shareholder in the co. It would be shown
the account of the co. with the bank was a
cad account, and that one of the defendants,
enig virtually the co., must have known it was
~ ' short, the Crown was about to infer
Giat Davies, the Chairman of the Mercantile,
ouldn t help being aware that Davies, other-
n ri Australian Mortgage, &c., Cos., was
0 able to meet his own liability (one of many
uc i liabilities) to the Mercantile, and that,
' er f fore . k® was a party to the incorrectness of
alance-sheet which reckoned his cronk co. to
e V* a healthy state. J ustice Hood ruled—and
lic labiy ijj s ruling is legally unimpeachable—
lat such evidence “might apply in a civil
se if the directors were being tried for
Oagence, but not in a criminal case.”
neu the Crown counsel argued with the
t , m Phcity of a mere rational business man,
1 a [ ['he directors probably saw the over-
aft book when it was put upon the table at
,f lr board-meetings, but Justice Hood had
’eady disposed of this argument by saying—
“ there is no evidence to show that the directors
ever saw the overdraft book.” Just here it will
occur to unlegal people that Davies would not
require the overdraft book to remind him that
his Australian Mortgage Cos. was well “ into the
ribs ” of the Mercantile, although, of course,
there is no evidence to prove that Davies, or
anybody else, had any memory at all. Let
that pass. What the general public have to
remember is the fact that bank-directors are
not legally supposed to know aught of the
contents of their overdraft book. A bank may
be started, the whole of its funds may be ad-
vanced to companies represented by the bank’s
directorate, all of those companies may be
virtually insolvent, yet the bank may consider
itself quite sound inasmuch as the directors
never look in the book which records their
ruinous transactions. In this case, the Law
assumes the possibility of Chairman Davies
being unaware of the Mercantile Bank’s rela-
tions with sundry Davies companies, or un-
aware of the state of those companies even if
he did perchance discover those relations by
peeping into the book. And the Law doesn’t
suppose that he did peep into the book, any-
way. Why should he ? Any bank director
who looks at a-book is a reckless ass.
Judge Hood has ruled that the hopelessly*
diseased overdrafts of the Mercantile Bank can’t
be put in evidence against the directors, who
represented them as good securities, because
“ there is no direct evidence to show that they
ever saw the overdraft-book.” The prosecution
isn’t even allowed to assume that Davies must
have known the badness of some of his own
overdrafts—they were practically his own—
because if he didn’t look at the overdraft-book
he wouldn’t be officially aware even that he
had an overdraft, and nobody can prove that
he was ever seen looking at that book. This
opens up a whole series of questions. Sup-
posing Mr. Davies had been found looking at
the book in question, what evidence would there
be that he saw any particular item ? Also,
what evidence would there be that he saw any-
thing, for there are plenty of abstracted, far-
away men who look hard at things and yet see
nothing, because their thoughts are many miles
away ? Further, suppose the same principle
were applied in all cases indiscriminately.
When the police find an illicit still in some-
body’s cellar there is hardly ever any
direct evidence that he was seen looking
into the cellar, or that he knew the
still was there, but the law takes it for granted
that he knew of it because it was there, and
acta accordingly. And when the same law
finds a lot of stolen property hidden under
somebody’s bed, there is never any direct evi-
dence that the person in question ever looked
under the bed, or that he knew the goods were
there, but he gets into gaol all the same. If
Judge Hood’s logic were applied all round,
there would be a good time coming for the fence
and the illicit distiller—but, then, nobody ever
dreams of applying it all round. It is a kind
of logic that is intended for Fat Man consump-
tion only,
The list of “ national subscriptions ” for Melb.
Age grows streakier than ever, also it is more
than ever remarkable that, whilst the lean
silver offerings are accredited to definite in-
dividuals, the fat, greasy pounds proceed from
sons of mystery. Thus 4s. fid. is described in
full as “ tobacco-money of 18 settlers, MTntyre
Village Settlement.” A. Richards, North
Fitzroy, makes no disguise about his five-
“ bob ” subscription ; J. Bourke and Buckley
are plain, straightforward contributors of half-
a-crown apiece, and so forth. Yet, on the
same day when these modest trifles get due
acknowledgment, two important amounts of
£lO each are put down to “ Miner ” and “ An
Admirer of the Age.” A phenomenally retiring
“ Storekeeper ” gives £5, “ Grazier ” is account-
able for £7, “ Miner’s Right” is a secret bene-
factor to the tune of a “ fiver,” and good old
“ Unknown ” slinks in with his £3. This is a
phase of sympathy with David Syme which
deserves an essay from some deep student of
human character. Why does the half-dollar
sympathiser proclaim himself to the world
whilst the donor of eighty times that amount is
afraid of giving himself away? What’s the
good of having ten pounds’ worth of admiration
for the Age if you can’t be convicted of the
offence under your real name ?
An Age correspondent lately telegraphed from
Maryborough (Vic.) : —“ An enthusiastic meet-
ing of sympathisers with the Age in the
recent railway libel action was held here to-
night. Resolutions were carried sympathising
with Mr. Syme, etc. Several subscriptions
were received, and there is every promise of a
handsome amount being handed in to the cen-
tral committee.” He had probably walked up
to the telegraph-office with the Argus corres-
pondent, who was sending his wire, as follows :
“ A meeting was convened to-night to express
sympathy with the defendant in the recent case
of Speight v. Syme. Only eight persons, how-
ever, including the chairman and two reporters,
were present. The Mayor presided, and re-
marked that he occupied the chair as a neutral.
He would take the chair at a meeting of either
side. A motion was carried in support of the
Age, but very little enthusiasm was evinced.”
On this showing, then, the demonstration in
favour of David was worked up by five en-
lightened citizens and one reporter, the latter
personage being counterbalanced by the Argus
man, whose ghastly .silence was only occasionally
broken by snorts of derision.
The fearfully and wonderfully complicated
situation in N.S. Wales Labour camp is
rendered a little more complex still by the
following utterance (as reported) of the fluent
Mr. Holman, Labour-candidate for Leichhardt:
Mr. Holman said the pledge submitted to him had not
been authorised by the November conference, nor had it
been approved by them. It was not expected that candi-
dates should be compelled to sign the pledge submitted
by the central committee. To prove which he added that
he had not been asked to sign the printed pledge himself.
In fact, the one he had signed had been mutually agreed
upon between himself and the secretary of the Leichhardt
league. lie knew it was impossible to fulfil the condi-
tions of the pledge, but he would sign it all the same,
and work upon it until they were blocked by its very
impossibility from going any further.
This, then, is how the situation stands. Mr.
Holman was a member of the Central Executive
Committee which drew up the famous “pledge”
—that cast-iron agreement by which every
official Labour candidate was to bind himself to
vote on every question according to the deci-
sions of an utterly impossible caucus, or else be
cast into outer darkness and be an official
Labour candidate no more. He was a member
of the same committee which presented this
pledge in a piratical fashion to the conference,
and rushed it through by a lavish use of the
gag. He is a candidate for Leichhardt, vice
G. D. Clark, whose fall is almost entirely,
if not entirely, owing to the fact that he
refused this same pledge. And now it appears
that, so far, Mr. Holman hasn’t taken his own
pledge himself, but that he is going to take
it—knowing its impossibility all the time—and
to break it afterwards. Now, it would be
interesting to know why Mr. Holman, as a
member of the committee, helped to formulate
this impossible test; and what is Mr. Hol-
man’s idea of a candidate who pledges himself
to what he can’t perform, and who helps
to bounce another man out of his Parliamen-
tary billet and salary for no offence save
that of being saner or politically straighter
than himself ? Further, Mr. Holman de-
clares that the Central Labour Electoral
league will oppose the candidates selected by
the country leagues if they don’t sign the
pledge which he hasn’t taken, and which he is
going to break when he does take it, and which
same pledge, he asserts, candidates are not
compelled to sign. Under all which mixed
conditions it would seem as if the members of
the committee, while laying cast-iron laws on
their fellow-workers, don’t even profess to
keep them themselves, and lack, even the
grace to be ashamed bf their own bigotry and
inconsistency. Mr. Holman is invited to
explain himself ; so far, his reported explana-
tions have been failures. If he doesn’t succeed
in placing a very different aspect upon this
matter, he should not be elected for Leich-
hardt or any other constituency.
Under the big heading of “Extract from the
Times,” the Age printed last week a par., pur-
porting to be a tribute to the patriotism of Mr.
David Syme in “exposing the railway admini-
stration ” of Speight. Next day Speight ex-
plained, per medium of the Argus, that the
aforesaid Times extract was originally published
in the ponderous London paper as part of a
telegram from Dalziel’s Aeency—which agency
is understood to get its Melbourne news from
someone connected with the Age office. An
occasional turning of the limelight upon these
ghastly contrivances for manufacturing press
opinion is very necessary, sad to say. The
world ought to know by now that “ views ” of
foreign papers upon Australian matters are
almost invariably the work of interested parties
at the scene of action, but the world is an
ignorant institution, and slow to remember the
things it is constantly being reminded of.
Otherwise, the Age would not have the
gall to put forward an extract from the Times
as a matter of the least importance. Daily
newspapers act on the principle that no decep-
tion is too clumsy to practise upon those who
believe in you. Had someone in the Argus
supplied Dalziel’s Agency with its news, then
the Times would have printed quite a different
spirited telegram—one fit to be quoted in due
course by the Argus as evidence of what
England thinks about the Speight v. Syme
case. And the Age would have thundered
forth an explanation of how the other disgust-
ingly disingenuous rag was working the oracle.
Meanwhile, it is no small privilege to enjoy the
spectacle of two rival daily journals hurling the
tricks of their trade at one another, and ex-
posing the secret of newspaper “ greatness.”
London Referee on Anarchism :
“The outrages that have been committed recently are the
outcome of the sensational treatment by the press of the
first of the series. The Anarchist desires to attract atten-
tion not particularly to himself but to his order. He is
the modern and violent development of the idea which
used to inspire old ladies who threw a stone through a
shop window in order to draw attention to their distressed
circumstances. Instead of throwing a stone at a window,
the Anarchist throws a bomb at the bourgeois. If he
causes any damage the press of the world rings with the
story. If these outrages could only be kept secret for a
time they would gradually cease.”
Unfortunately, the press of the world issues
flaming reports of the Anarchist when he does
no damage at all. Take a couple of sample
cablegrams from Australian papers of last
week ;
“Another explosion in Paris. London, Feb.’ 26.
Another dynamite explosion took place at a Paris hotel
last week, although it was fortunately not, &c. The scene
of the occurrence was a small hotel in the city, and more
than one bomb was exploded, but no one on the premises
sustained any injury.”
“An outrage in Italy. London, Feb. 26. An outrage
of a similar character to that perpetrated at Barcelona
has occurred at Pisa. A dynamite bomb was thrown in
one of the theatres of the city and exploded without, how-
ever, inflicting any injury upon the audience.”
That the “ bombs ” in the hotel cases were
merely gunpowder toys, thrown by fools to
terrify the foolish, is a fact plain to everybody
who gives the item a second thought. The
average reader doesn’t give a second thought to
the details of the hysterical yarns supplied by
his “ great ” newspaper. He just hangs on to
“ Another Explosion in Paris ” and “ Bomb
Thrown in an Italian Theatre,” and asks the
first friend he meets to join him in a groan over
these fresh Anarchist atrocities. As long as
Anarchism and its votaries can get an advt. in
a thousand penny papers by letting off squibs,
or bursting air-tight paper bags, in a fourth-rate
beer-shop, the Anarchy mania will flourish. As
regards the “bomb” which exploded in a
theatre without any discomfort to the audience
—well, The Bulletin refuses to take that mass
of dynamite seriously. It is difficult to hurl a
lemonade-bottle into an auditorium so that no-
body would get hurt. The world at large, and
the press at large, knows as little about high
explosives as it does about poisons. Last week
one Australian paper solemnly stated that
deceased had been in the habit of taking as a
tonic “ half-an-ounce of perchloride of mercury
thrice daily.”
Premier Patterson, having no policy and no
distinct idea where to get one, and being
harassed by a serious deficit in the Treasury,
and not daring to levy additional taxation for
fear of alienating his Fat Man supporters, and
not knowing where to retrench further, and
being almost without a party, and in a general
state of bull-headed muddlement, simplifies
matters by shutting up Parliament for eight
months, and running a dictatorship. Victoria
objects to this, and the demand that Parliament
shall be called together grows loud. Conse-
quently, the butcher-man lifts up his meat-fed
voice in the suburbs of Melbourne and speaks :
The public meetings that were being held about the
suburbs, urging an early session of Parliament, are calcu-
lated to do more harm than aood. Speakers at these
meetings had sympathetic audiences, and when they told
them that the Government were doing nothing to remedy
the sad state of things which existed, the people became
infuriated and did wrong acts. It was that kind of talk
that was the precursor of the bombs in the old country.
Talk of that kind should be nipped in the bud. Let these
people beware ; also the newspapers that encouraged such
agitations.
All of which is suggestive of the youngest
boarder in Mrs. Todger’s hash-house, and the
awful things w r hich he was going to perpetrate
upon Jones, the fishmonger’s book-keeper.
What is going to happen to Patterson’s critics
if they don’t “beware?” As a dictator, James,
the meat-man, is a failure. He is too sug-
gestive of the aggressive small boy who plays
at being a gory pirate.
Barristers Pilcher and 0. G. Heydon, dis-
cussing the Attorneys Admission Bill in New
South Wales Legislative Council, cannoned
sharply over the value of solicitors’examination
tests in subjects other than law. Mr. Pilcher
asserted roundly that success at examinations
was no proof of ability, and maintained
broadly that, if an examination be ordered, it
should, in the case of solicitors, be confined to
the subject of law* Mr. Heydon, on the other
hand, held to the old familiar ground that pro-
fessional men should be possessed of a large
general education, over and above mere
legal competence. Neither disputant asked
what the employing litigant looks for. If
shearers determined that no man should wield
his tool of trade except he had, in addition to
showing competence for his craft, passed in
step-dancing, lithographic printing, and the
high-jump, the land would ring with denuncia-
tion of the despotism of trades-unionism. The
litigant does not care what the lawyer he em-
ploys cannot do, so long as he can do his legal
work well. It was not in the public interest,
but in the private interests of attorneys’ clerks,
that Mr. Pilcher deprecated the importance of
general examinations, and his special pleading
carried him into a fresh field. For if examina-
tions, other than legal ones, are of no use for
solicitors, of what use are they for barristers ?
Mr. Pilcher has insisted on them in the case
of the embryo barrister. The public is clear
on the topic. It takes the late Mr. Wisdom,
who passed in law only, and makes him N.S.
Wales Attorney-General. It takes Patrick
Real, carpenter, of Queensland, examines him
in law only, and raises him to the Supreme
Court Bench. And when the candidate shows
he is competent for the work of a solicitor or of
a barrister it says, everywhere and every time,
“ Let him go to work, no matter what he knows
or doesn’t know besides. ”
The home of the forcible-feeble, native heath of
the decent-respectable, haunt of the “superior”
order of civil servants, stronghold of petty
sectarianism, lair of the commercial pietist,
camp of the crowd who are too cowardly to be
either really good or really bad, and thus escape
both Heaven and Hell, theonespot where theToM-
linsons, Jenkinses, Atkinsons, Wilkinses,
Thompsons (with a “ p ”), and Brownes (with
an “ e ”) of society abound—that’s Hawthorn,
the fashionable Melbourne suburb. As it is, so
is its representation, municipal and parlia-
mentary. Its legislative ideal is embodied in
The Bulletin’s particular friend, Swashbuckler
Taylor, chairman of the board which wiped
the dirty face of the local Parliament free from
the besmirchment of stolen mace foulness.
What its municipal models are was recently
exhibited, when there came on for discussion in
the Council a letter from the Trades Hall, request-
ing co-operation in a deputation to the Premier
to urge that work be provided for the un-
employed. Out of ten councillors only three
supported the proposal, and the dissenting
seven, not content with opposing, used the
opportunity to publicly expose their cerebral
barrenness and nakedness. The doddering old
lie that Smellbourne’s rottenness was due to
the big strike was trotted out and made the
text of each oratorical effort. It was obviously
the object of the representatives of Fatmanity
to impress the public with the fact that they
opposed the suggestion mainly because it was
made by the Trades Hall Council. Having
thus done their duty they adjourned, as usual,
to marble halls, satisfied, as they might be,
that they had given expression to the views
generally venerated in Haw-Haw-thorn.
Rev. J. E. Moulton, retiring president of
Wesleyan Conference :—
If the Australian has a fault—and I am an Australian at
heart, if not by birth, and I am slow to acknowledge any
faults—but, still, if the Australian has a fault, it is the
want of reverence. We must have been developing, I
think, some other large bump, that has left no room for
the bump of veneration. We see it in children by the
way they treat their parents, and it would be a good
thing, methinks, for our community if this bump of vene-
ration for sacred places and sacred things did grow a bit.
What are sacrtfd things and sacred places ? Is
there anything holy in cant, anything sacred in
dogma? Mr. Moulton’s charge is true, and
’tis not pity that ’tis true. Australian irrever
ence has not only an excuse, but a justification.
We call upon all pious and respectable memories
to stand and deliver reason for the homage
which they exact. Wo prove all things, and
hold fast to that which is true. But we will
nob take our truth on trust. We will nob
measure the Present by the standard of the
Past, or cramp our Future to the barbarous
ideals of a barbarous age. Pastors and
masters, give Australia Facts ! Facts we
reverence, Knowledge we worship, Truth we
venerate, Dogma we despise.
At Broken Hill a constable was assaulted
by two roughs, one seizing him by the throat and
the other by the leg. Unfortunately he had n&
revolver, and—the roughs knocked him senseless
and escaped? Not a bit of it; he “managed
bo get his baton, and in about two seconds
stretched his assailants out.” This is another
argument in favour of arming the police.


dood Smokes for oar Itaok-ltlocks Film Is at
CITY PRICES I
STAMPS or P. 0.0. to any amount taken.
Box of (100; CIGARS, Regalia Bouquet .. 20/-
Box of (100) CIGARS, Indian .. .. 17/8
Box of (50) CIGARS, fine C.O. Manilla .. .. 10/-
Box of (100) CIGARS, Alonzo Menez Habana .. 30/-
Carriage paid to any part of Australasian colonics.
If, tin,l It. WOOLF CO,, Ciffnr Merchants,
826 Gkorgs Strbbt, SYDNEY, N.B.W,
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A. Good a,nd Claeap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD ;
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
d
Manufactured by
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
I‘AVUKNK (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
Oh ! draught divine, that adds new life—breeds
mirth —
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Whore shall I quaff thee? Horace! thou shouldst
know ?
Why, in the Boar's Head Brand of Inin s and Co.
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
March 7, 1894.
My Dbak Moorabinda-
It is still being argued in the Sydney news*
papers : “ Are the women killing the men?” The
whole agitation sprang into existence because
somebody wanted a she-typewriter, and so on, for
a starvation wage, and the noble army of youths
who will not dig make that the starting-point for
the crusade against the “cheap female” who
starts sprucely out with a little black bag o’
mornings, instead of stopping at home.
But in this, as in all other questions of man v
woman, there are always six arguments on one
side and half-a-dozen on the other. Women may
undersell men in the clerical callings (although
figures seem to prove otherwise) and in every
other calling that man has sealed unto himself
hitherto, and where woman can hope to succeed ;
but look, on the other hand, at the vast army of
pale and pimpled youths who sell a woman a pair
of stockings and measure ’em round her knuckles
to ensure a good fit, or who sometimes shroud
their manly visages in spotted veils behind the
counter to enable the byper-partioular customer
to see just where the beauty-spot occurs “on the
figure.”
When you come ten-look at it, there are very
few exclusively feminine occupations. There is
a masculine to the feminine of almost every
mixed business under the sun, but you can’t put
all the masculine callings into pettiooats. What,
for instance, are the feminines of policeman, paid
politician, sailor, ’bus-driver, cabman, postman,
bank-clerk, engineer ?—one doesn’t know where to
pull up. And what are the exclusively feminine
callings ? Perhaps governessing—but even that
awful purgatory is leavened by tutors ! Domestic
servitude is probably the only work for which a
woman doesn’t compete with a man—and then she
has a Chinaman against her even in that. But
there is still corn in Egypt—of late several of the
professions have opened their doors to women.
We are broken to the lady-doctor, for one thing—
though how maliciously she is persecuted in
Sydney by high male officials ! And now I hear
oi a Melbourne girl who is studying to be a bar-
rister-inspired, probably, by Essie Jenyns in
cardinal-red as Portia.
The President of Sydney Equal Suffrage League
was among the women-champions in the cause
hereinbefore alluded to, but I fear her gushing
view of the matter will only be embraced
by gaunt maiden-ladies in flat boots, and not by
marriageable womanhood. For instance, the lady
alludes to the good time coming, when there will
be fewer marriages, “and less need for divorce
courts, baby-farmers and undertakers.” Yes, the
good time’s coining when every second female will
be a hollowed-out spinster hugging a greasy poodle
and voting agin the Government if the Premieress
happens to be pretty. I wonder who really
believes in that very limited Utopia, tempered
with beaded mittens and tom-cats ?
It is doubtless very sympathetic to talk of the
“ pitiful crowd ” of fallen women as being entirely
due to the beguiling influence of bold, bad men,
but experience teaches that Potiphar’s wife isn’t
an isolated instance, and that Eve has many
understudies in her leading role of first arrival at
the tree of evil. If the woman-question is to be
thoroughly sifted and settled it must be stripped
of poetic glamour and handled without gloves.
The present style of argument—hoisting tne one
sex as high as the angels and letting the other sex
down to Tophet—is simply stupid and does woman
no good whatever. Let us, just to start with, get
recognised authority on the case. Look up King
Solomon on the ladies, for instance, and give
the various prophets’ unabridged opinions on the
complete innocence of the female character.
A real live millionaire arrived in Sydney, per
sailing-ship, the other day—Mr. F. T. Laycock,
from Newoastle-on-Tyne. He was accompanied
by five friends, including an honourable, a
doctor and a captain, and the reason a poten-
tate of his nett weight arrived in a common,
pea-green sailing-vessel was that he wanted
to learn how to navigate his own yot,
dontcherknow—the Valhalla—which he “is going
to tub about in like fun when he knows the
ropes.” Mr. Laycock returns to England via
America, and expresses his intention of doing us
thoroughly by yacht later on. But don’t you
think it funny for a man to go all over the place
in a big sailing ship before be navigates his own
vessel that way ? Learn sailing practically if you
like, but please don’t make an aniseed-trail of the
thing. It’s something like driving your team in
the wake of a ’bus.
On Wednesday, 14th inst., at Sydney Town
Hall, the local musical profession tenders a com-
plimentary benefit to Miss Ada Crossley, the
gifted Victorian contralto, who is wisely steering
Bullwards to change her notes for gold. Miss
Crossley, being a general favourite on account of
her unaffected stage presence and voice of magni-
ficent promise, the big place ought to be crowded.
Sydney Liedertafel lias engaged 220 seats for
itself and friends. And Ada Crossley’s
concert recalls that Batey is dead—died in har-
ness, for site fainted while singing at a Sheffield
concert and was gone in six hours. It was a
Sydney doctor who told her when she was in Aus-
tralia that her heart was too unsound to allow her
to sing safely.
As Society has run out of fads just at present, I
would like to bring the claims of Carington Con-
valescent Hospital under the notice of the large-
hearted belledom which loves to get a chance to
paint its cheeks and eyebrows and buttonhole
strange men in public places for the good of the
cause. The Carington Hospital (which isn’t such
an extravagantly-planned building as some make
out) is in a desperate case financially, and as it is
an institution capable of a marvellous amount of
good, something ought to be done to keep the bag
full. A thousand pounds more annually is wanted
to keep Mr. Paling’s splendid gift to the public
in working order, and if the <£looo be subscribed,
Govt, will add another thousand.
From W. H. Paling & Co. I have received a
large book perpetrated by Mr. Frank Down, and
called “ vocal exercises for all voices.” The book
is entirely unobjectionable as a dumb tutor, and
people who courageously endeavour to cultivate
their screech without the aid of a two-legged teacher
will find it very useful if they take it in the proper
spirit. The “ Bundong March” is also to hand
from the same firm. It is “ dedicated to my
friend, George Martin, by Fred. Werner.” If
Mr. Werner had dedicated his purposeless
meanderings in common time to his oldest enemy,
the raison d’etre of this singularly vapid composi-
tion would have been visible at once.
Other new music locally produced includes the
“Duchess of York” waltz—why “Duchess of
York?”—composed by Madame Kellermann, and
to be played at Government House. It might be
called the “ While you Wait ” waltz, for it was, I
am told, written at very short notice. It is a
lively and tuneful composition, and, as the time is
good throughout, ought to make a ball-room
favourite of itself. But I don’t like advts.
printed on music. G. de Oairos Rego—who never
writes commonplace music—sends a quaint
“Valse des Adieux,” for pianoforte, which is
worthy of his romantic “ Impromptu in F and
L. Pogonowski sends along a vocal eulogy of
“Cricket.” The test of a “barracking” song,
which “Cricket” is meant to be, is always the
chorus, which is the lamest part of the shriek
under discussion. Besides, cricket doesn’t want
its own particular war-whoop. You can sail to a
song, but the person who broke out into a ballad
at the bails would be hauled before the cricket
council.
There aren’t many particular points about the
dressing in “Captain Fritz,” at Sydney Criterion,
for just at present there is nothing new under the
sun, and I have often pointed out that the stage
in Australia doesn’t hold the mirror up to future
fashions as it does elsewhere. Mrs. Arnold wears
three Greenaway dresses in a piquant style—the
white satin ball dress of the last act being very
becoming to her diminutiveness, and Agnes
Knight would look willowy even if she dressed in
chaff-bags. The unspeakable Charles Arnold (I
always admire an actor who doesn’t get his eyes
up like a ring dove’s with coal-dust) sported an
artistically worn-looking uniform as the German
Captain. By the way, the feature to me of Charles
Arnold’s graceful tenor warblings is that he seems
to be able to sing in any position short of standing
on his head. He reminds you of those American
clocks which go upside-down or anyhow.
The poor pros, in their stage harness suffer
dreadfully from the heat in the Sydney dog-days,
and I hear that the gentlemen of one Sydney co.
meander about behind the scenes mopping their
made-up visages with sheets of blotting-paper!
As there are one or two sticks in the company it
is to be hoped that some of them—naming no
names—will blot themselves right out one of these
muggy evenings.
Speaking of actors—who are always only too
delighted to be talked about—a French doctor has
discovered that the most marriageable man in
the world is the comedian—the tenor running a
good third, while the hopeless cases are brokers
and bankers, who only get one chance in fifty.
Rubbish 1 The comedian may fill the boxes, but
only just as the ballet fills the stalls.
A certain class of women pet the aotor-man.
They regard him as a dashing sort of thing to
have in their pockets, and they worship him in
the bold and breezy style that they lavish on the
fashionable parson. If he meets their eye mean-
ingly during a sentimental passage they are well
rewarded, but “society” marriages with actors
are few and far between in Australia, at any rate.
Bince the daughter of a deceased official ran off
with a Georgia minstrel, I can hardly think of an
instance where a society woman has been beguiled
into marrying a mummer. The actor-man may
get all the calf-poetry and dead rosebuds, but it is
the fat, old dry-goods warehouseman that wears
the woman herself.
In a recent Adelaide bigamy-case it was sus-
tained, as a statement of law, that “if the doors
of the church or dwelling in which the marriage
was performed were closed during the ceremony,
or one witness was absent, the marriage would be
null and void.”
Now, I wonder just how many persons have laid
down their single lives with the door shut ? It
wouldn’t often happen in a church where every
facility is given to the open-mouthed nurse-girl to
force her way into the midst of the enchanted
proceedings, and the enterprising suburban dress-
maker is encouraged to hang about the wedding-
guests for fashion-tips—but the house-marriage is
generally got through with closed doors, which
makes mere pantomime of the whole ceremony I
This latest legal discovery will probably make
quite a number of people shake in their matri-
monial shoes. But, while we are on points of law
re door-closing, why not make divorce in camera
no divorce at all?—if only in the worst interest of
the five o’clock tea-tables.
Mr. A. W. Nathan, the handsome and tuneful
Sydney solicitor, has set out again for Europe;
he will make his operatic debfit under the segis of
Signor Sbriglia, of Paris. His place in the big
and growing firm of Macnamara and Nathan will
be taken by Mr. E. A. Smith, late N.S.W. Crown
Solicitor. Mr. Nathan, it will be generally con-
ceded, has all the voice, brains, and presence
necessary to command success, and he takes with
him the good wishes of everybody.
Some highly ambiguous statements get into the
newspapers occasionally, and the victims thereof
mostly grin and bear them (some have to bear
them without grinning); but lam really envious
to know how a “converted” English millionaire
brewer, interviewed by Sydney D.T. the other
day, liked to have it plainly put between two dis-
tinct full-stops that “Australia, too, owes some
additions to its population to Mr. Charrington !”
Of course, I haven’t the faintest idea what it
means, only the whole statement strikes me as
being about the most difficult thing you could say
concerning a man travelling with a portable halo
round his hat!
Which reminds me, somehow, that a quee r
little bright-blue envelope turned up at The Bul-
letin office recently, containing, in a lady’s hand-
writing, the mysterious query : “If a mayor is
entitled to a silver cradle when his wife presents
him with a son, to what is he entitled if another
makes him a similar present?” There was no
answer to the conundrum, so I can only diffidently
make the suggestion that a tastefully-arranged
bouquet of wild oats would be the most appro-
priate gift under the circumstances.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Miss ADA CROSSLEY, the Australian contralto, who
benefits in Sydney this month prior to departing for
England.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hbr Majesty’s “The Shamrock and the
Rose.”
Criterion “Captain Fritz."
Lyceum “Jo.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “La Mascotte.”
Theatre Royal Maggie Moore Co.
Alexandra “Right’s Right.’ ’
Alhambra Variety Show.
To-night (Thursday) sees the beginning of
the winding-up of things in general at Sydney
Lyceum. It is the “last local appearance” of
funny-man Courtneidge, who benefits on this
momentous evening prior to leaving for Guam, and
a stupendous house is expected. It is also the
“last appearance in Australia” of the shapely,
fascinating and graceful Mdlie. Bartho, who de-
Barts for the land of the wooden ham and the
[uckleberry piano. And, furthermore, it is the
last appearance, in a general sort of way, of Caicedo,
the frenzied Venezuelan on the slack wire. On
this occasion the great spectacle—the most gorgeous
spectacle grows wearisome when there is no drama
attached—retires, and Courtneidge and the other
people will farewell in that good, unfading comedy,
“On ’Change.” On Friday, Jennie Lee will
occupy the Lyceum with “Jo,” which bootless
waif will be on view for seven nights only, the
remaining five nights of the season being devoted
to “ The Grasshopper.” This is Miss Jennie’s
“ last appearance in Australia,” also; and when
she is gone the Brough and Boucicault Co. will
take possession of the Lyceum and do their last
appearance. Altogether there is a long series of
heart-breaking farewells in view at the big theatre,
and many bitter tears will drop on the bald head
of the man in the reserve-stalls.
** * «
Sydney Royal, shorn of its “legitimate”
glories, has settled down to be a plain variety-
show, under the management of Dan Tracey.
Dan’s minstrel show is a tolerably good affair of
its kind, and is very much the same as any other
minstrel show ; but “ variety ” performances have
long ceased to be various. The Royal entertain-
ment is even a little less various than the average.
All the old, old things are done cleverly, with a
cheerful assumption of being new ; if they weren’t.
Dan Tracey’s show would probably not be branded
“ variety ” at all.
** * *
One astonishing feature of “Captain
Fritz,” at Sydney Criterion, is the size of the
tips that fall upon the stage hireling. Nobody
is ever tipped anything under ten shillings, anil
cold suspicion attaches to the person who offers
half-a-crown. The musical feature of the musical
little story which fetches the loudest encore, is the
“Tommy Atkins ” song, which secured four re*
calls on Saturday. Percy Brough, as the Corporal,
adds to the success of “Tommy Atkins” by the
military way in which he balances on the front
part of his feet, and pretty Dot Frederics, as the
ingenue, possesses the rare gift of talking at mag-
pie speed and yet making herself audible. George
Rignold is the only person The Bulletin can
think of at the moment who can talk as fast and
as audibly as Miss Frederics. Nothing is as yet
announced to succeed “ Captain Fritz.”
** * *
At Sydney Majesty’s “The Shamrock and
the Rose ”is holding its own. It seems a pity,
by-the-way, that the thistle wasn’t added to the
title. That symbolic flower is represented by the
agent and boss evictor, who is short, dirty, hard-
hearted and unshaven, and all the good Irishmen
use abusive language to him and make insulting
remarks about his country. The gallery applauds
wildly when the insults aimed at Caledonia reach
their worst, from which it is evident that
Scotchmen don’t go to that part of the house.
Also, there is no note of dissent from anywhere
else, which seems to imply that Scotchmen don’t
go to any other part of the house. In all
that big audience, not one bony Gael rises
to protest against the insults directed at his bleed-
ing country, and apparently nobody cares what
happens to it. Since Gov. Duff arrived in Sydney
Scotch stock has slumped
** * *
At Melbourne Royal they took down “The
Golden Giant” after one week of that bathetic
stage narrative. There were good points about
the performance; also, the scenery and slow music
gave valuable support, but the author’s influence
proved fatal earlier than was expected. On Satur-
day Maggie Moore turned her tearful brogue loose
in “ Arrah-na-Pogue,” and sang once again “The
Wearing of the Green” as only this magnetic
artist can sing it—
When the glory of Boucioault’s drama departs,
And hushed is the voice of the rebel colleen,
Which woke in the dirthiest Sassenach hearts
A sneaking regard for poor Erin-go green—
When the wrongs of that country are righted for aye,
And shamrocks arise from her Parliament flure,
Shure, the song that foretelleth her freedom to-day
Shall be sung by the spirit of Maggie V. Moore.
The resounding Glover, who is always at his best
in top-boots, rolled out the lines of O’Grady with
all the majesty of a storm at sea. Michael Feeney
made a bold bid for opprobrium in the person of
J. B. West, and H. R. Roberts gave a slim,
genteel performance of Shaun. Miss Constance
Deorwyn, E. B, Russell, R. Stewart, John Forde,
and the virtuous pisantry of ould Ireland responded
cheerfully to duty’s call, whilst the inevitable
detachment of British troops did its best to inspire
awe. “ Arrah-na-Pogue ” seems bound to prosper
for a few nights, but “ Meg ” is ready to take the
stage at a moment’s notice.
* « *
At time of writing, Miss Maggie Y. Moore
is being chased by injunctions and other forms
of legal procedure with a view to quashing her
plans to appear anon as Lizzie Stofel in “Struck
Oil.” J. C. Williamson figures as the suitor who
seeks to restrain, or whatever the law calls it, and
the question as to whether his copyright in the
play is shared by his wife (who claims to have had
a fair half-interest in the original purchase) is
apparently linked to a second question regarding
the right of a husband to stop his wife from enjoy-
ing his copyrights, anyway. Lawyers may find
this dispute interesting and improving, but the
general public would rather see John and Lizzie
Stofel rowing together in their time-honoured
dramatic boat under the same little flag,
m* * *
The Alexandra was rushed again on Satur-
day by an audience that followed the dark intri-
cacies of “ Right’s Right ” with hungry eyes. A
real Old English Fair, introducing acrobats who
bite one another in the hinder parts, is the leading
feature ot this extraordinary play, although it is
run close by the descent of two females into an
abbreviated barge by means of a crane. From
time to time a farmer discovers his long, lost wife,
or the Ragged Jane of the piece accepts, without
demur, a statement that the high-bred heroine, in
choice attire, is her twin sister. Although none
of these matters are lucidly accounted for they
make a favourable impression, and when, at last,
the honest Yorkshire farmer overthrows the vile
schemes of a certain wandering pugilist, the shouts
of the Alexandra gallery may be heard from afar.
“Right’s Right ” is so rich in changes of scenery,
and mobs of bystanders, and consistent lunacy
that it ought to run for a fortnight.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’ business is not
allowed to flag. On Saturday they played “ The
Mikado,” with Nellie Stewart, Taploy, Miss
Cameron and a cast otherwise the same as last
time. “The Pirates,” with all their faults, will
love their Queen three nights this week, and
“ Mascotte ” is the bill for Saturday next (10th).
** * *
The Alhambra variety show has com-
menced its second year with a fairly lively pro-
gramme, and Miss Ada Crossley has farewelled
at the Town Hall amidst a scene of wild enthu-
siasm. On Saturday that distinguished foreigner,
Caicedo, will bid adieu to Melbourne at the same
place. The wire worker appears by arrangement
in conjunction with Turner’s Exhibition Concert
Co., and if they could persuade Miss Bessie Doyle
to play a violin solo whilst Caicedo executes his
pas de seal the effect would be very touching.
At Poverty Point.
Miss Shaw, of the Times, when she read her now f unous
paper before the Colonial Institute, wassquiud by her-
oousin, Sir E. M. Shaw, for long chief of London fire-
brigade, and hero of the Fairy Queen’s song in Gilbert’s
“ lolanthe ” :
“Oh, Captain Shaw!
Type of true love kept under !
Could thy brigade
With cold cascade
Quench my great love, I wonder !”
“ The Old Jew ” fails at London Garrick. “Caste” in
rehearsal, Anson as Ecoles.
Haddon Chambers is to succeed Pettilt at London
Adelphi, with a play called “ London.”
The convict hulk Success, due at Hobart early this month,
will not have a very successful season if report speaks
truly. It is said that “sassiety” has decided to taboo
this delightful reminiscence of its embryo self.
Amy Sherwin’s portrait appears in the Queen, sur-
rounded by adulatory letterpress of the most buttery
description. She has signed for a forty-night concert
engagement in Australia during ’OG.


New York Life Insurance; Company.
ESTABLISHED 1845.
Total Assets, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... .£28,292,010
Surplus, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... ... 3,457,808
Progress of the Company in 1892.
INCREASE IN BENEFITS TO POLICY-HOLDERS .. - .. „ £273,329
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. ... ... .. „ 2,876,935
INCREASE IN SUPLUS .. .. .. ' - > .. .. _ 342.371
INCREASE IN INSURANCE WRITTEN .. .. .. .. .. 4,303,660
INCREASE IN INSURANCE IN FORCE .. .. .. .. .. 12.379,732
The increase during the year in amount of insurance in force is larger, by over <£2,000,000, than
the gain of any other Company in the world.
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager, Department of Australasia.
Chief Office : Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N,S. W. ,
GASH BONUS
DISTRIBUTION
Of Profits to Po'icy-holders every Month as follows:
Ist CASH BONUS, £4OOO
2nd „ „ 2000
3rd ~ ~ 1500
40 ~ „ at 50
40 CASH BONUSES at £26
50 .. » 10
200 ~ „ 5
200 „ „ at £2 10
Under the Co.’s system of ballot it is possible for the
holder of a policy for £25 to receive six (6) separate cash
bonuses of the total value of £4092 10s., and for the
holder of a policy of £lOO to receive twenty-three (23)
separate cash bonuses of the total value of £7870.
N.B.j
A
A
Policy for £25 can be obtained for a
premium.
Policy for £lOO can be obtained for a
premium.
2/e
10/-
Press and Policy-holders present at all ballots.
Address Personally or by Letter—G. R. WEBB,
Tine Accident Coupon
Insurance Co. of 3ST.Y.
12 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Miss Virginia Vivienne, who gave such a realistic version
of the dying consumptive in Rignold's drama, “True as
Steel,” has had to go away to recuperate. When she had
played the part for about six nights, this bright little
woman got all the consumptive’s symptoms. Which is a
solemn warning to everybody who plays the part of a
pathetic stage invalid. If you are only realistic enough,
you catch the disease off the unreal personage in the
drama, and it sticks to you. In fact, you catch the com-
plaint off yourself.
An esteemed Bulletin correspondent :-Life’s kalei-
dosoope ! The Williamsons, 21 vears ago, devoted the
voyage from 'Frisco to working up “ Struck Oil." What
a night was that of their first Melb. appearance! The
disguise of Stofel was perfect, an absolute new thing,
while all next day, Sunday, people raved about the
charming Lizzie, with her yard of ropy hair. What a for-
tunate young couple I
. , 6 F , ou \ n tA
A cotmert was recently gtven at Sheffield (Eng.) in aid
of the distressed miners, “admission by loaf of bread.
The takings were 250 loaves. British charity generally
takes the form of dry bread.
™ t n M?Jh Adey Brunel aS high
prmstess, has been formed in
D t n K B f arry i netted over ex 8 Alexandra
week before last.
Dear Bulletin, —The “central coryphee” at Melb,
Royal panto, was Miss Coppin and not Miss Moore, and
your Melbourne notice which referred, of course, to one or
more evenings in a certain week, may be backed for
accuracy against the irresponsible contradiction in last
“ Poverty Point.”—Yours, One who saw for Himself.
Melba is undoubtedly a fine artist, but she lacks the
divine spark. As singer she is Calve’s equal, perhaps, but
as an actress she is not to be mentioned in the same
breath with the great lyric interpreter, Santuzza. Never
have two artists afforded a more marked contrast in
respect to their qualifications for winning the favour of
our opera-goers. Calve’s triumph was due solely to the
force of her genius. Melba undoubtedly gratified the
critics, but it is impossible to believe that the stir created
by her first appearance at the Metropolitan was not the
result, in a large measure, of the romantic association of
her career with the scion of the house of Orleans.—N.Y.
Dramatic Mirror.
At a Melb. Liedertafel concert, the other night, they
sang a part song, composed by a local musician, “My
Heart is sore with Sighing.” A suitable companion song
to this would d‘My soul was strained whilst seeking
grace.”
Gus. Harris has been suffering from blood-poisoning,
and has had a narrow squeak. One evening recently
he made an unexpected appearance at Drury Lane. He
arrived borne in an invalid-chair, and was accompanied
by two nurses and a doctor, who sat in a box with him all
the evening I—a very Royal or very vulgar proceeding,
The theatrical knight knows all about advertising.
At Lawrence Cautley’s benefit on 24th Jan., at London
Lyric, the chief item of importance was the appearance of
Mrs. Cautley (nom de theatre, Miss My6e Sydney), aa
Juliet to Lawrence’s Romeo.
The good die young. Patey was only 51. The wild
Antoinette will live to be 100—and then Death will make
a wry face.
Victorian Chief Justice blandly told J. C. Williamson
that the law assumed a man could manage his own wife,
Fancy the fate of a man who tried to manage Maggie, and
Maggie unwilling 1
Nellie Stewart’s characteristic “business a bobbing
curtsey with poised forefinger pointed at the dimple in
her cheek- was so constant in “ The Mountebanks ” as to
become irritating.
The booming interviews with nonentities in certain
London illustrated weeklies are accounted for by the fact
that the subject sends a request for an interview, £lO, and
all the plates. Apropos, London Sketch prints a portrait
and memoir of Hogan, M.P.
The Palmer-Beaumont Concert company had a very
successful concert season at Hobart Town Hall. Mrs.
Palmer—one of the Carandinis and therefore a Tas-
manienne—received a perfect ovation at every appearance,
The Pollard Lilliputian Opera Co. ended its Hobart
season by a big miscellaneous concert at the new Exhibi-
tion building. The hall, which is supposed to hold 3000,
was packed-the first “pack” of the Lilliputian’s Hobart
season.
The piano was stolen from a hall attached to the Uni-
tarian Church, Melb., the other night. Despite the howl
this act has occasioned, we stick to our belief that it was
better than killing the pianist.
t, ...... . *.. ~ , , ~ .
Pettitt always said that he every afternoon experienced
a strange loss of vitality between the hours of 4 and 5.
He believed he would die at that time, and he did.
The current Drury Lane panto, includes a pageant
illustrating The History of England in Twenty Minutes,
It is a painfully Jingo spectacle, after the style of a former
Procession of Kings and Queens, and it finishes up with a
furious grovel before Victoria Regina. The grovel of the
audiences seems to be hacked up splendidly by the press.
One writer, describing the glory of the spurious V.R.’s
arrival, says—“ The whole house rises to its feet, and,
standing bareheaded, vociferously joins in the National
Anthem. I have never seen a more spontaneous outburst
of loyalty. The Duke and Duchess of Connaught and
their little ones felt very proud of this when thev went to
Drury Lane on Tuesday night." Observe that the house
stands bareheaded. It has been sitting bareheaded, and
its hat is stowed away under the seat all the time.
The Napoleonic and Most Travelled*. S. Smythe is by
no means without talent for advertising himself, and part
of this seems to have descended to his son, the Much
Travelled Carlyle Greenwood Smythe. But, not yet
having the absolute wisdom of the serpent, like his wily
parent, Carlyle, when starting in business as a lion-leader,
occasionally made mistakes. For example, he once
was in charge of business for the late astronomy-lecturer,
Proctor, and signed his bills, “ Carlyle G. Smythe, 8.A.”
Wow, Proctor knew the rule of etiquette that it is had
form except in university official documents and the
hke, to append the degree to the signature, and, further,
the degree which Proctor held was also B.A. only.
Proctor interviewed C.G.S. on the matter, and expressed
himself with.considerable vigour.
The Wild Cat Column.
Silver 2s. 3d., more or less. Every prospector
should buy a silver hilly for luck.
* m *
Broken Hill returns, week to March 1: Pro-
prietary, 9664 tons ore, 243,5320 z. silver; Central, 161
tons, 57370 z.; Block 10, 59 tons, 8100 oz.
# # *
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. have nob been
doing quite so well this half as expected, but Horsfall has
returned triumphantly to the hoard—a parallel to the
impossible return of Speight to the railroads. Failing the
mst Bismarcks of Melb. and Sydney wooldom, Horsfall is
Y- a, jd M. rolled into one. The firm thought it could
do without him, but he maintained a position of masterly
inactivity. Only a rich man can do this kind of thing.
• « *
The balance-sheet of the Australian Widows’
tund shows that the society has now an accumulation of
±1,196,346, being an addition of £lOO,OOO during the
Year. The working expenses are only 16J per cent, of the
total income. Last year the death claims and claims by
the maturing of endowments amounted to £59,000, while
receipts from interest on investments alone were £55,798
so the society has nearly approached to that enviable
£9 ,nt when it can pay all losses without making any call
whatever on its premium income.
# # •
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co., of" Sydney,
held its annual meeting the other day, and the Sydney
dailies reported it with their usual brevity and dismissed
the subject. Then, a day or two later, the same dailies
imported it all over again to the extent of nine or ten
columns each. As no city journal would give that space
Ktatis to the doings of a little industrial company,
a nd as no paper, in any case, would report the same
dreary meeting twice over as a matter of public interest,
18 assumable that these great hunks of literature
were paid for as ordinary advertisements out of the com-
Pmiy’s money. The proceedings which were advertised
on this enormously costly system included great masses of
maundering about British trade statistics, Ana-
tv, i an federation, the silver question, the bank failures,
J'y® Bank Notes Bill, the causes of the panic, the returns
ot the New York clearing-house, bimetallism, hanking
ap ', s f' CB > But. despite the lavish space taken up by
a| l this loose irrelevance, the company didn’t include its
dalanoe sheet, which is the one thing which the public
really wants to see. All the rest has just as much to do
WRh the solvency of the concern as it has with the rings
,f Saturn.
The balance-sheet, when it is discovered, is
hardly in keeping with the rest of the magnificence. In
1887, according to the company’s own figures, it saved 48
per cent, of its premium income to meet future death-
claims, the other 52 per cent, going in expenses, &o. In
1888 it saved only 36 per cent., the outlays absorbing 64
per cent. In 1890 it saved 32 per cent. only. In 1891 it
only put away 26 per cent. ; and now, in 1893, it whoops
with exultation because a little less than 20 per cent, of
Us premium income has been carried to the assurance
fund to meet death-claims, while the remaining 80 per
cent, has been spent In other words, every person who
pays 6d. a week for a little insurance policy has the satis-
faction of knowing that IJd. goes in Insurance and 4|d.
in expenses, etc. If this state of things continues, surely
the time must come—and that speedily—when all the
premiums will be spent as fast as they are received, and
nothing at all will be carried to the insurance fund? One
thing Which the company apparently does not mention is
the amount of industrial insurances in force, so it is
practically impossible to ascertain the proportion of
assets to liabilities.
The whole aspect of the institution is de-
pressing. Something like 50 per cent, of its policies
are apparently allowed to lapse when they are a few
months old. There is a woeful scarcity of definite infor-
mation as to the company’s standing, and the affairs of
the precarious-looking industrial business, which is by
far the biggest part of the concern, are obscured and lost
sight of amid much loose whooping about the very
small “ordinary branch,” and much inflated bombast
concerning the wearisome and altogether irrelevant silver
question. After a careful comparison of a series of
balance-sheets, the only thing which is sufficiently clear
to build a coherent theory upon is the proportion of
premiums saved each year. And this item shows that the
co. is getting more and more expensive as time goes on.
If the Citizens’ Co. would follow the example of other
offices, and issue a table showing the premium income
for each of a series of years, the amount of insurance in
force at the end of each year, and the amount of the
accumulated funds each year (a colossal proportion of the
Citizens’ accumulated funds appear to be invested in real
estate, now-a-days a most precarious security as the
world goes) it would disclose its true position in one com-
prehensive act.
* * *
N.S.W. ex-Freetrade Secretary Pulsford is pro-
moting an Antarctic whaling co. at Sydney. By the way,
Jacob Goldstein, erstwhile of Melb. charity-organisation
society, has taken the Pulsford’s place as secretary to the
Calico Jemmy crowd.
* * m
Beer still pays. West End Brewery, Brisbane
(Q.), after being mostly washed away in the ’93 floods and
re-building in brick, pays an interim div. of 10 per cent,
with bonus of 6d. per share (10s. fully paid)— i.e., about
30 per cent, per annum. Also an equal amount is carried
to reserve-fund.
* * *
Both the Adelaide dailies have reduced wages
right through their establishments, printers included, by
74 per cent.
# # *
Would a jury be indictable for perjury which
found that those responsible for the choice of counsel in
the Mercantile case selected Walsh, and rejected Finlay -
son, for the purpose of weakening the case for the prose-
cution?
m * *
Mr. Mercer, who has arrived from London to
join Lord Percy Douglas, warns speculators that the first
“ wild cat ” on London market will do incalculable harm
to Westralia, and strangle a dozen good mining schemes.
Heretofore London has systematically strangled mines by
greedy overloading. To nine London brokers out of ten,
a cheap “ wild cat ” is preferable to a genuine mine at a
reasonable price.
• « «
A tote-man, technically within the law, was
punished last week by N.S.W. Justice Foster because he
had acted “ against the policy of the law.” The phrase
is a sound one, but where has it been these last three
years? Why was it not invited out in the epidemic of
financial reconstructions? The “policy of the law”
would have netted stacks of big men who now shine free.
# * •
Justice Hood must have had a tough job in
keeping his mind clear of facts bearing indirectly bn the
Mercantile Bank case. It was to Mr. Hood that the
liquidators of the Freehold Investment Co. once applied
for advice as to dealing with the directors of that quaint
institution. Fortunately, they withdrew their applica-
tion as soon as it was made, and the Judge said that the
dropping of the awkward question removed a load from
his chest, and simplified matters considerably.
* » •
A Southern building society magnate was, last
week, relieved of liabilities amounting to a quarter of a
million by a “ comp.” of 2s. in the £.
• • •
Captain Sandeman, chairman of the B.N.Q. ;
“ The hank is merely a trading co. There is no sentiment
about a bank. The bank was formed by the shareholders
for their own benefit, and the ultimate end of the bank is
to give good returns to the shareholders.” This state-
ment embodies a great truth. There is no sentiment
about a bank except when it is appealing for consideration
at reconstruction time. On all other occasions it is just
as sentimental as the nether millstone.
* * *
We are requested to draw attention to the fact
that the share-list of the Australian Building Society
property distribution closes on the last day of this month.
N.S. Wales’ many disappointments have run
local mining speculation to zero. Nothing is believed.
Tilden’s shares went begging, last week, at 2s. ’Twas
said the ore would go 2 ozs., but few credited it, and they
had no cash. Now, the first eight days run of battery—
-150 tons, 304 ozs. retorted. Then follows same old
N.S.W. cry: “ Crushing discontinued, water having given
out.”
* * *
Said, on authority of G. D. Meudell, of Melb,,
that the shares held in London in Melb. trams, Metrop.
Gas, and Broken Hill, will soon outnumber those held
locally; and if it were not for London orders, standard
stocks would have receded to a vanishing-point. A big
relief—but how will the future be affected by divs. leaving
the country ?
* # *
Undeterred by the silver-fall, Charleston con-
tinues working Sunny Corner. Since Nov., he has
smelted some 6000 tons, and has 7000 tons at grass. Ore
still low in silver, but said to be improving in copper and
gold. '
# # *
J. C. F. Johnson, M.P. (S.A.), journalist, and
ex-Minister for Education, has his eye on the auriferous
Bodalla (N.S.W.) bluffs.
m * *
Oarbould, who, after several years in Broken
Hill mines, travelled the world for mining knowledge, has
gone to Coolgardie, where he has several excellent shows
on the Premier line.
• # *
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold, N.S.W., returns
have fallen of late to 12ijdwts. More-economical working
wanted.
* • *
The second distribution of bonuses by the
Accident Coupon Insurance Co., of 12 O'Connell-street,
Sydney, took place on the Ist. inst., in the presence of
the committee of management and representatives of this
and other Sydney papers. The ballot was conducted on
equitable lines, and gave every satisfaction. The result
will be found advertised.
* m *
Peak Hill Proprietary has had a good half-year
—5962 tons, 28430 z. ; i.e., average. Profit, £4600.
With regular water it would have regular divs.
« # •
Mount Allen 470 loads, 2720z5, Q. : Why
falling off ? A.: Lot of surface stone in the crushing.
* * •
Why nob try the Austral Otis ball mill for dry
crushing in the dry places of N.S.W. ? Little water is
needed for amalgamation.
* # #
Baker’s Creek last crushing—4oo tons, 660 ozs.,
lower than usual. Is the mine ever going to slump? It
has outlived the confidence of the writer, and perhaps
nine-tenths of the mining men who ever saw it. Never
in Australian history has so small, ill-defined, and
treacherous-looking a vein yielded so consistently. Now
said they have found another good ore-shoot near the
boundary of the old North.
* * *
Eleanora, oldest Hillgrove mine, crushed last
half-year 3095 tons for 15240 z. gold, with 90 tons concen-
trates and 212 tons antimony, reducing current debit-
balance by £9OO. Baker’s Creek crushed 4958 tons for
10,2220 z., with 115 oz. gold and 181 oz. silver from concen-
trates, and paid £15,000 in divs.
* * *
Wilcannia Blocks opal syndicate, White Cliffs,
stops work owing to cabled fall in price, throwing 100
men out.
• * *
In a new 20-fb. shaft, at Hill End, prospectors
have got gold even better than Marshall’s, in a lOin. vein.
Locality secret pending flotation of show.
• • *
Henry Wickes writes to S.M. Herald : “It is
a great pity to see men leaving our shores (N.S.W.) for
other colonies in search for gold when we have it at
our own doors.” His argument is that there is quite as
good a show on the auriferous beaches of N.S.W. Mr.
Wickes, by the way, is interested in a certain gold-saving
machine.
* * •
Block 14 has suspended smelting. Causes —
shortage of carbonates and silver fall. The co. will now
have to keep afloat on present cash balance until its
sulphide concentration plant is finished and treating the
refractory ore at a profit. The first is an event of (say) two
months hence ; the second, problematical. The stoppage
has thrown 200 men out of work.
Block 14 directors allege a difference of, at
least, 6s. per ton in favour of seaboard as against mine
smelting. The sulphide concentrates will be reduced
at Port Adelaide where the co. is erecting furnaces ; con-
sequently, the mine smelters will never again he in blast
on the mine’s account.
A fall of Id. per ounce in silver makes a differ-
ence to the B.H.P. Co. alone of much over £lOOO weekly
on present output; even at 2s. per ounce, however, there
would still be a handsome profit. The market quotation
is for standard silver (925 fine); Proprietary silver being
996 fine, brings a proportionately higher price—generally
about 3d. over market quotations.
* * *
The rich vein lately discovered by Marshall
Bros, at Hill End, N.S.W., has long been crying out for
somebody to adopt it. In some of the surface specimens
was intermixed hair from the goats which used to camp
at night over the reef.
* * *
The Argus hopes that plenty of strong youths
will remain in Victoria to fight the depression ; at the
same time it breathes a prayer that enough of them will
go to Coolgardie to make it a Victorian possession.
» * «
Frank Connor, M.L.A. for East Kimberley
(W.A.), states that in the past two years his partner and
himself crushed at Ruby Queen battery, Kimberley, 5000
tons for 24dwts. per ton. Unluckily it was other fellows’
stone.
* * *
The proposed horse-tram from Southern Cross
to Coolgardie will be 100 miles in length, and the distance,
according to present ideas, will be covered in four days,
in the worst weather. A steam tram, even of the
hideously cbmhersome Sydney variety, would do it in 24
hours without turning a hair, unless the tram-line is
constructed in some specially infamous fashion peculiar to
the country.
# # *
If W.A. Govt, continues to enforce labour con-
ditions all-round at Coolgardie it will engender a very big
suspicion.
• » »-
Cosgrove considers his Coolgardie mine de-
veloped enough to carry machinery. Certainly, if “the
reef, 4ft. wide, from wall to wall averages lOoz. per ton.”
# * *
Hidden Treasure tributors, Pambula : Last
crushing, 150 tons, 5410 z. Hard luck on the 00. to just
miss this ore.
* * *
Batteries are merrily beating out gold from soz.
rock on a number of Murchison mines.
« * *
Upwards of 1000 men left Sydney in four
steamers bound for Freeman tie this fortnight. Probably
five times as many awaiting the wet.
* # •
The jobbers who “specked ” some thousands of
the new issue of Bayley’s Reward, at 155., begin to feel
bad.
# * •
Phoenix, Gympie, 600 tons, 1800 oz. ; 2s. div.
anticipated.
* * *
Charters Towers ’93 record splendid. Tonnage
over 200,000 ; average, 25Jdwts. ; divs. equal to 34 per
cent, of gross gold ; calls lowest for many years. Brilliant
line took lead: 54,676 tons, 89,4500 z.; Day Dawn line,
56,763 tons for 64,7670z5.
# * *
Croydon field has over 200,000 tons tailings
(estimated). Cyanide is being applied. Croydon’s yield
to date-225,000 tons, 389,8610z5.
* * #
Gympie’s leading mine, the North Phoenix, has
had no luck with the new ground explored, and the old
stone only averages Joz. or so. Forty-five men were
recently paid off, and the deep workings abandoned. In
14 years the mine paid £400,000 divs., and never made
a call.
* * *
Queensland 1893 gold-yield, 616,940 oz. ; in-
crease, 1382 oz. on 1892. Chairman, Towers, 259,243 oz. ;
vice, Rockhampton, 122,181 oz. ; right-hand supporters,
Gympie, 78,978 oz., and Croydon, 71,1il oz. ; left-hand,
Etheridge, 29,385 oz.
Out of the small army of suspects arrested at
the instance of the Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co., only
two convictions have been scored —and these almost
solely on the evidence of one of them who burned
informer. Another conviction was quashed on appeal.
Two paltry convictions after all the flaring headlines 1 A
pretty return for an outlay estimated at some £6OOO,
# # •
Recent Q. crushings : Towers—Brilliant Cen-
tral, 31$ tons, 8370 z.; 1 East Sunburst, 109 tons, 460 z.;
Golden Gate Tributors, 116 tons, 4060 z. ; Brilliant Block,
690 tons, 808 oz. Gympie—Crown and Phoenix, 166 tons,
750 z.; 1 South Eastern, 420 tons, 2910 z., div. 6d ; Phoenix,
663 tons, 18020 z., div. 2s 3d ; North Smitbfield broke down
reefs for 2500 z., with sales 345.
• » »
According to E. Pope’s report, Gympie Phoenix
has crushed, from the rich Smithfleld reef, since last
October, 3165 tons for 12,5710 z. ; divs., 14s. 2d. per share;
total, £35,416. This is now the leading claim, with shares
about £2.
» • •
Vesuvius Co., O. Towers, held a meeting in
Helb. last week. Every man who spoke urged others to
pay up calls. One said they had a better show than the
Brilliant had at one time; another that the finding of a reef
was dead sure, and he expected a cable-offer from London
at any moment. The Vesuvius is well boomed,
* # *
Mb. Lyell output last week, 209 bags (9 tons
14cwt.), 21,8120 z. silver— i.e., an average of 22400 z.
Nearly 10 per cent, pure silver and 27 per cent, copper !
What price Mt. Lyell but for the silver crisis? Peters
predicted that on the true footwall of that enormous lode
they would find enormous deposits of precipitated silver
and copper. This is the mine refused by the English
financiers on a preferential-share basis.
* * *
Lansell’s boys christened his 105-head Bendigo
battery by breaking champagne on each of the six engines.
If all this fizz was wasted the writer admits that he knows
not old Lansell.
* # *
Colman and Tacchi’s new deep-level stone ill-
defined ; last lot went 12dwts.
# # #
Bendigo Cakes; Johnson’s, 607 ozs. (only 8 dwts.
to ton); Golden Age, 352 ; Specimen Hill, 338; Garden
Gully United, 262; Lazarus, 208; United Hustlers, 259;
New P. of Wales, 240 ozs.
• * #
Magdala-eum-Moonlight (Vic.)—734 tons, 3090 z.
gold. Good enough if it lasts long enough.
* * *
The best claim on the Murchison, so far, is the
Day Dawn, “ a fair daisy,” owned by the usual crowd—
Horn, Reid, Wilson, Kintore & 00., who have now been at
work 15 months or so, and have 20 head stamps going and
40 head more going up. According to a letter received in
Sydney last week, the reef (which runs through 28 acres
of the owners’ ground) is 18ft. thick at the water-level
(130 ft. down) and show's 2Joz. per ton I On the surface it
was Oft.
« • *
All the Australias are badly in want of a law
which will absolutely prohibit any co. borrowing on its
unpaid capital. Regarded as a security, it is only one
degree better than the lOU of an incurable lunatic. In
Australia a vast number of oo.s raise the wind by habi-
tually pawning their unpaid capital with each other. The
security is never, or hardly ever, called up in times of
prosperity, but in times of scarcity all the instilutions
which have financed in this fashion call upon each other
to settle up. Then It is invariably discovered that the
alleged unpaid capital of half the financial instilutions in
each province is simply the unsecured promise to pay of
the same little knot of insolvent speculators, v
About a quarter of it, more or less, in Mel-
bourne consisted of Matthew Davies, and another
quarter of Jim Munro, and to all intents anrt pur-
poses the security on which half the co.’s in Melbourne
had borrowed was only the promise of these two men to
pay half-a-million or a million apiece, which they hadn’t
got and never would hare. Probably the financial world
would be a lot more honest and more sound if the capital
of a co. was simply the amount actually paid up and un-
called capital was entirely abolished. As a rule, it can
only he found in good times when it isn’t wanted—in bad
times, when it is wanted, it is practically undiscoverable.
It is a bogus security for rotten companies to borrow
upon, and very little besides. Nobody seriously expects
to find it when it is wanted, unless it is wanted under
such circumstances that the money could as readily be
obtained by a new issue of shares. At other times it
generally pans out for a fraction in the £ which doesn’t
pay the expense of looking for it.
* # •
A public smelting co. now in course of formation
in an Australian mining town, is evidently on the high
road to success. There was first of all a Public Smelters’
concert, and subsequently a Public Smelters’ banquet, to
which festivities the shareholders were admitted free
while the outside public had to stump up hard cash. Nou
the smelting co. intend to proceed to smelt.
• • •
At a meeting held in Coolgardie to form a
miner’s benefit union, among other things, the s> obhy re-
marks of Melb. Argos re “ gentlemen and working-men ”
labouring together, in Bayley’s big mine, were severely
commented upon. Needless to state, writes a Bulletin
correspondent, that the prominent speakers (who are
genuine practical miners) were “ sacked ” next morning
on turning up to work.
• # #
Mr. V. L. Solomon, of Adelaide, publishes a
“ Guide to the West Australian Goldfields,” which every
digger bound for Coolgardie or the Murchison should get.
It contains maps showing the roads to these two El Dora-
dos, with the waterholes carefully marked. The rest of
the hook is a digest of the complicated W.A. mining law.
# # *
Less water than ever at Coolgardie; beams stuck
up, soakages dry. New alluvial rush, at Kurralpi, gives
mixed results—good, had, and shocking. Flour went up
to 355. per 501 b. during a carriers’ strike. Rich shoot
found in the Premier ; best yet. Brilliant and Bayley’s
South have also good reports.
* » •
It must cost something to withdraw an issue of
Whitaker’s Almanac. Yet, that is what the proprietors
had to do for inadvertently including the ’Asia among
failed Australian banks—besides paying costs in the libel
case and a consent verdict of £l.
* * *
Victorian Express’ (Geraldton, W. A.)Nannine
correspondent: Temperature in the shade, 118 ; in the
sun, 183. Too hot to hold the dish ; have to wear buck-
skin gloves. Cock-eyed bobs, whirlwinds, cyclonettes,
and dust-spouts cruise between 3 p.ra. and sundown
through the centre of the township. They are incorrigi-
ble snappers up of hats, kerosene cans, camp ovens, iron
tanks, tents, roofs and stationery, &c., and leave the
brand of the “ stars and stripes ” —or strips on every
calico tenement within a rod of their track. If you could
only capture one, and set it to work at systematic dry-
blowing, it would be invaluable, but as it is, they seem a
deplorable example of misdirected energy.


The OldßLeruL
Whisky
oflK - e if £ HORSE
Cellar
W»*'
direct oisxiLttns.
•‘*“WJ c .StfScRK , fISt u,w
Edinburgh.
EKZ
m
m
ini
(||M»" | i
W&
W
v*
A **:
•llrC
CSEP
""in
y
ivvfl
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers In the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Ealchin, Johnston Sc Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney
“IMITATION
is the
SINCEREST FLATTERY.”
The articles most imitated are
CLEMENTS TONIC and
FLETCHER’S PILLS.
WHY?
BECAUSE they have the best reputation and
are most in demand by the public, consequently
every dishonest trader tries to trade on their fame
and renown.
It is really wonderful that the Australian people
are so slow to see the truth as regards the un-
scrupulous quacks and charlatans who prey on the
credulity of the Australian public. Scarcely a
week ever passes but what the press exposes the
barefaced and -shameful practices of some of these
harpies, yet, in face of all they seem to thrive, and
the paper who hounds them down most thrives
fattest on their advertisements and cracks cham-
pagne over each balance-sheet. Clements Tonic
and Fletcher’s Pills have never yet stooped to de-
ception and misrepresentation. They are scien-
tific therapeutical agents, and evidence as to their
value can be found in every district, and such
being the case it is unnecessary to further extol
their virtues.
j{otcxda.ohx^
(ttfuAj *tdLo4 / Ku4
QitpduiX;
Personal Items.
■n . nr i „ v ii . . ,
1 arkes . 1 shall never be the recipient
of a pension. '
Fitzwiniam Wentworth will be in Aus-
ia nejc wee * .
1 he widow oi N. o. W. Chief J ustice Martin
has taken a villa at Mentone, France.
Hang Yet was arrested for perjury at
Launceston, Tas., the other day. Probably he
w iU. J
Ex-TreasurerM‘Millan(N.S.W.) has spent
a large portion of his holiday in Maoriland study-
ing the main motive principles of that “ fierce
democracy.’’
The whole of Jnsenh’s Clarke’s land in
ne WHOie OI u osepns OtaiKC S tana in
bouthern .Tasmania has been offered for sale at
Hobart, but the reserve prices proved much too
high for business.
Parkes has gone west, young man, dry-
blowing, as usual. A Melb. scribe suggests that
he had better stay in Westralia, and “grow up
with the country.”
tUti “ r “ a
They all do it—-even the little ones. We
now never hear of “ Joe Lesina,” the “wondrous
Sydney boy-orator.” But we sometimes read
about “ Mr. Vincent B. J. Lesina.”
Ri.i, if ~ , ,
David Blair, the grandfather of Aus-
traban journalism, ” has written 10,000 leaders ”
m his time, mostly in the Argus, with a good few
in the Age, of which he was once
English papers have pub-
lished about a mile of obituary
notices on the deceased Lady
Charles Wellesley, mother of
the present Duke of Wellington.
And not one of them found
space to mention that she was
the grand - daughter of Sarah
Hoggins.
Anecdote of the late Pro-
fessor Jowett which the “ best ”
papers unanimously remember
to forget. An undergrad., in
whom he took special interest,
used to run after the be-titled
alumni. Said Jowett: “ This
piteous rank-worship is the
social leprosy of England j
Keep clean, young man !—keep
clean !”
The just - departed Mars
Miller, Money’s brother, goes
to Heaven —he was one of the
straightest men ever known in
Melbourne —with the sin on his
head of having been the prime
fugleman in the establishment of
building societies. The Millers’
father was one of King George’s
“lobsters” in Tasmania, hence
the Mars. This also accounts
for his enthusiasm over the
Salvation Army, where he used
to turn up, in the Brunswick
barracks, playing a brass kettle-
drum and dressed in an old,
red soldier’s coat. One night
the panjandrum in command,
a distinguished visitor, said
something like “ Here’s a good
old bo izioan, I know. Give
us your testimony, brother, you
with the rattle-tattle.”
Judge Hood is the best mathematician on
the Victorian Bench, and the man most qualified
to sum up transactions in figures in such a manner
that a jury may have no doubt about their total
result.
The town of Parkes, N.S.W.,isso over-
whelmed with debt and in such ill-repute finan-
cially with the outside world, that some super-
stitiously-inclined residents favour changing its
name to Dibbs.
Melb. Age observed of the Mercantile
Bank prosecution that “ the case for the Crown
was closed in a rather indulgent way by calling a
witness to depose to the uniform probity and good
behaviour of the accused Millidge.”
West, who suicided at Pentridge to escape
flogging, is a full cousin of the husband of Mrs.
Cornwallis-West, the celebrated English beauty,
mother of Princess Henry of Pless. The Crown
Law authorities surely never knew that.
A recently-deceased Victorian Anglican
cleric left behind him many MS. sermons punc-
tuated in parts with the words, “smile here,”
‘‘cry Here,” “wait here,”&c. After all, preach-
ing is just as much a business as mumming.
“ Tumut ” Brown is said to have delivered
but one speech during the whole time he has been
in N.S.W. Parliament, and that was about 20
years ago, when he complained of the quality of
the bread supplied in the refreshment-room.
Premier Kingston has a strong hold on
the S.A. Democratic party. Ho wears, in
summer, a slouch hat and a discoloured white
suit. The alleged democrat in a bell-topper and
black frock-coat invariably gets aimed out in the
end.
The estate of the late Minister Lorimer
has just gone to pieces, in Melb. Bankruptcy
Court. A fortnight before his death, he spent
£250, as War Minister, on a free performance of
“ The Silver King,” for the naval and military
forces.
The wife of Gov. Aberdeen, of Canada,
who, it is cabled, yelled the English National
Anthem at a republicanly-disposed audience there,
is a direct descendant of the Robert Bruce who
lived and died fighting against the supremacy of
England.
An Australian newspaper proprietor gave
over .£lOO for aan athletic contest the other day. A
hard-up verse-maker, whose effusion was published
about the same time in one of the prize-giving
papers, applied for payment and was told, “We
don’t remunerate for poetry.”
A reporter named Burt, now on Melb.
Age, was the first to give to the world the mar-
riage and death of Parnell. When these events
happened Burt was on a Brighton (Eng.) paper
and got a handsome fee on each occasion for a
telegram of 20 words to a London press agency.
Helen Gould, the daughter of the defunct
railroad-wrecker, is perpetually guarded by police,
who attend her wherever she goes. Her constant
dread is that she will be secretly abducted and
held for a vast ransom. This fear preys on her
“ind to such an extent that the old man’s millions
will probably drive her into an idiot asylum pre-
sen^ ly ‘
-Newcastle Morning Herald (in a leading
on Gladstone’s threatened blindness :
When the almond tree flourishes and the grasshopper
, be S on ?. e 8 a burden > the darkening of the windows of the
body becomes a natural accompaniment, and when the
defects of vision owing to senile decay are accompanied
b y a malignant growth over the optics, the case becomes
truly aggravated.
The decorations of Moantmorganaire
D’Arcy’s English mansion, Stanrnore Hall, have
been designed by Burns Jones. Common rumour
credits D’Arcy with the possession of .£120,000 a
of most oftts
Gilbert Parker, who has evidently “caught
on ln England with his Canadian stories, re-
c®nj‘.y told a London interviewer that although he
studied for the church he never entered it. Then
w by the “Reverend” when in Australia ? Per-
haps only to impress the S.M. Herald people,
Written in the air over the Herald office door is ;
“ Abandon hope all ye non-parsons who enter
here.”
THE WHITE CHIEF AND THE BROWN.
GREY. REWI, the Maniapoto warrior, now dying, who has sent for Grey,
asking that they may be buried in the same grave.
The dirtiest man on earth is said to be a
monarch, Norodom, King of Cambodia. He has
a gorgeous palace furnished according to the most
expensive Parisian ideas, but he adheres to the
customs of his.dirty ancestors, and sleeps on an
a ncient carpet in a kind of shed which hasn’t been
, H ®, a “ is ® rable
f yP^° ndrl f’u a^ d a l d m?- he heave ®
f A . wretchedness, i his monarch
short . fat person with one eye gone through
m. a ‘ . rr- i . ,
once bur y Hicks who came from
Africa m the early fifties, and was ap-
-10 r \ ted commercial editor of the Argus (he after-
£ ard f , edl^ ed i7 GEEL( f G Advertiser) was lately
found dead by a postman at Stawell, Vic. Pinned
to the wall of his hut was a notice to quit from
the owner of the shanty. Under it deceased
had written, “A grim Xmas greeting, surely.”
Moral: My son, never become a writer for the
Press unless you cannot help it. But never be-
come an °^ d writer for the Press,
“Timothy Fogarty,” a most voluminous
and well-advertised Sydney writer, has a tender
heart. Once a newspaper printed for him what
fie intended to be a fierce and withering attack
upon the late British Premier. Later on,
a “ y * b ®, editor. I have been thinking,
he sa,d solemnly, “and I am
I was so rough on Gladstone last
~, ' \ a , y ea^ s ag0 > but Gladstone long
heM UP under the attack. Now, however, it is
cabled that the poor G.O.M. is breaking down in
health. His blood will be upon the head of
Fogarty.
apoplexy. Authorities are divided. Certainly
she looked apoplectic—a full-blooded, warm-toned
lady with a short neck and a decided liking for
stout-and-oyster suppers. Her husband was in
Australia, a very secondary personage. ’lie
entered conversation at intervals to bemoan his
mosquito-bites, which were large, numerous, and
permanent. Then Madame’s deep voice would
overwhelm him, as a big wave swamps a little
swimmer, and he would subside and scratch him-
se“ m soliloquy.
The world is full of coincidences. Fifteen
years ago Messrs. Spence, Stephenson, and
Withington, three young Methodist parsons, close
*. r M !n Id?’, 1 d ?’, ba( l their portraits taken in a group in
Adelaide. During the last week of last month all
three attained coveted preferment as presidents of
Wesleyan Conferences—Mr. Spence in N.S.W.,
Mr. Stephenson in S. A., and Mr. Withington in
Victoria. Stranger still—as the triennial Metho-
dist Church Conference meets in Adelaide next
May, all three will, if alive, come together officially
in that oity ( where they will probably be photo-
graphed again. The earlier portrait group is still
extant.
Jerome Jerome suggests that, “to stay
the growing anti-English feeling in Australia,”
the of Wales should “take an early oppor-
tunity to examine the undoubted beauties of Syd-
ney Harbour.” This mad wag imagines that the
sight of a short, bald, genial, courteous, fat gentle-
man with baggy eyes and a German accent is all
that is needed to make Australians whoop “ God
Save the Queen ” for a century to come. Austra-
lians know a good man when they see him, and
were very deeply impressed with the ability of
Lord Rosebery, who, as The Bulletin said years
ago, is the only visiting British magnate whom
our people would really have liked to kidnap and
keep in this country by reason of his conspicuous
personal merits.
Sydney Herald gives over a column to
the “remarkable sacrifice” of Mr. F. N. Ohar-
rington, now in Sydney, who gave up his patri-
mony of a million sterling (invested in a London
brewery) rather than soil his hands with “ the
accursed drink traffic.” All the same, however,
he accepted from his father enough brewery-made
money to keep him, F.N.0., for life. Which
straining at the camel after swallowing the gnat
only shows how many kinds of a simpleton F. N.
Oharrington is. Why didn’t he take his share
and devote his million to counteracting the evils
of drink, instead of renouncing it, and letting
somebody else spend all that money in increasing
those evils? With a million sterling (a safe
£40,000 a year) some men could shift the earth*
As things stand, the Charrington-Head brewery
is in full blast turning out swankey, and no one
would ever now hear of the renunciation of Ms.
Oharrington but for the interviews with that modest
gentleman published in the papers. Which inter-
views, be it said, do no good either to Mr. Ohar-
rington or the teetotal cause, as nobody devoid of
horse-sense has ever kept a soul out of hell.
Much post-mortem sympathy is showered
on Thackeray, as having been for so long the
husband of an insane woman. What are said by
Australian relatives of the deceased lady to be the
facts of the case are as follows. Soon after his
marriage, Thackeray had as inmate of his home
the beautiful and brilliant Miss C , who,
though of about the same age as the then young
writer, stood to him in the position of ward. Mrs.
Thackeray was accomplished, lovely and refined,
but not altogether a sympathetic companion to
W.M.T., and it was not long before Thackeray
and his young ward discovered themselves to be
“ elective affinities.” Mrs. Thackeray had for some
time suspected this, and it was immediately after
the birth of her third child that, through her
window, she_ observed a strong proof of the affec-
tionate relations of the guardian and the guarded.
She frenziedly sprang out of bed and caught a
chill, which, superadded to the mental shock,
permanently affected her health, and her mind
became unhinged. It is further asserted that the
poor lady was afterwards treated with needless
cruelty in being confined in a lunatic asylum, foi
she never exhibited any dangerous tendencies, but
was simply dazed and idiotic, though entirely
gentle and tractable, throughout her afflicted
course.
The Pondoland niggers are to be Put
Down by Rhodes & Co. These niggers are awful
ruffians; also, their country is rich and well worth
grabbing.
A Maori shearer (Harawera) has got the
wool off 200 cross-bred sheep in a day with the
shearing-machine. Another Maori sheared 203
same day. On 12th Dec. last 32 machine-shearers
at Murrumbidgerie shed made the wonderful tally
of 4816 sheep, or an average of 150 J per man.
Charles Irwin headed the list with 220; Frank
Kearney was next with 197.
Robert Barr, in The Idler :
A picturesquely-attired and somewhat ragged ruffian
appeared on the roof. He had an extraordinary whip in
his hand. The handle was, perhaps, three feet long and
tapered towards both ends, being several inches thick in
the middle. The lash was like a modified boa-constrictor
several inches thick, and was some fifteen or twenty feet
long. If an ordinary man attempted to use such an
instrument the lash would coil itself around him and
bring him down from that roof in about two seconds. But
the ragman knew his business. He gave several yells fit
to arouse anyone recently deceased, then, bracing himself
back, he flung his lash to the winds. In the most beauti-
ful curves it writhed, now to his right, now to his left,
looking in the bright sunshine like an energetic fiery ser-
pent out on the spree. Further and further back leaned
the ragman, both hands thrashing the air with that
gigantic whip, and at every twist it was as if a gun find.
Bang, bang, bang, went this tremendous whip, not like
pistol-shots, but infinitely louder. It was simply a can-
nonade.
All this about a Tyrolese cattle-drover cracking a
stockwhip. The 20ft. whip is commonly supposed
to belong to Australia. Barr’s article proves the
contrary.
The solitary-confinement
portion of the sentence passed
upon Cyril Haviland, late Syd-
ney School of Arts secretary,
for embezzlement, has been re-
mitted on a medical certificate
from Drs. Maurice O’Connor and
Muskett to the effect that “ soli-
tary” would probably deprive
Haviland of his reason.
The Atchison (U.S.) rail-
road private co. is “bung.”
Over one-fifth of the U.S.
railroad mileage is now in
receivers’ hands. Seventy-three
companies with a mileage of
31,878, a capitalisation of more
than one and a-half billion dol-
lars, are the victims of the
year 1893. Private enterprise !
“The Duke of Leinster,
just dead, and the duchess were
at a great London ball. The
duke was bored, as the husbands
of professional beauties usually
are, and wanted to go home.
The duchess refused, so the duke
went home by himself and or-
dered the lights out and the
front door locked. When the
duchess was surfeited with flat-
tery and supper she went home,
only to find herself barred out.
She threw herself down in her
diamonds and finery before her
own door and wept bitterly.
The duke finally let her in, after
exacting a promise that she
would allow him to regulate her
hours thereafter. ‘ Did the duke
do right, or was he an unmanly
brute?’ is the question which
now agitates the young married
men.”
“ Early-risers are conceited all the fore-
noon, and stupid all the afternoon.”
Grocer : The reason I don’t go to chapel
is because I have to shake hands with everybody
and then they come round for tick !
When M'Namara and Rosa, newsagents,
found guilty at Sydney of having sold a libellous
paper, Hard Cash, came up for sentence
lately, the Judge told M’Namara, among other
things, that the sentence would be more severe
because the one week term of gaol inflicted on one
Bear, had not prevented the sale of Hard
Cash.’ Which argument (not reported by the
daily papers) simply amounts to this : M'Namara
and Rosa were punished with extra severity
because after their conviction (they had been re-
manded for sentence pending an appeal on law-
points ultimately decided against them) which,
like their offences, took place at the same time as
Bears, other “evil-disposed persons” committed
other and distinct offences 1
LINES TO A MIGHTY WARRIOR.
“Sir Henry Parkes, Commander-in-Chief of Her
Majesty's Forces in N.S. W."— American Paper.
Bellicose plumage, and sword
Hung to the hips of the great,
Race-cowing, eye-flashing lord,
Ruler of Army and State.
Strapping of buckles and spurs,
Blaring of trumpets and fifes,
Donning of laces and furs.
Heroes of manifold strifes.
High o’er the thick of the throng
Towers one, mighty, immense,
Fair, flowing tresses and long,
Iron-wrought muscles and tense.
Ah ! but we know him, we do.
General Washington Parkes!
Bane of the aquiline Jew,
Terror of Israel Marks.


fr? HE ® EAF ’ —-A Gentleman who cured himself
01 ness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
teniedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
d
Instantaneous photography»
This Hand Camera,
With BALL and TUBE ATTACHMENT,
355.
Samples of Work done by this Instrument, and Illu-
strated Catalogues, POST free on application.
BAKER & ROUSE,
375 George Street, Sydney (opposite Sydney Arcade).
200 Collins Street, Melbourne (next to Mullen’s).
46 Queen Street Brisbane.
69 Bundle Street Adelaide
‘ THRICE IS HE ARMED,
WHO HAS HIS QUARREL JUST.’
CLEMENTS TONIC,
THE WORLD'S GREAT RESTORATIVE,
HAS CURED MORE CASES OF INDIGES-
TION, NEURALGIA, WEAKNESS, DE-
BILITY, DROPSY, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
AND LIVER COMPLAINT THAN ALL
OTHER MEDICINES PUT TOGETHER.
If you are sick and value your life, insist on
having Clements Tonic and no substitute, or you
will be disappointed.
READ THIS CASE.
Mr. Chas. Strange, hairdresser and tobacconist,
Auburn-street, Goulburn, N.S.W., who writes on
May 23rd, 1893 I have been a great sufferer
from dyspepsia for the last two or three years. I
have tried several so-called cures for the above
complaint, but never received any benefit from
them. Hearing so much about Clements Tonic —
in fact, I could hardly take up a newspaper but I
saw the cures performed by your wonderful medi-
cine —I resolved to try it, and I am happy to say
it has performed a perfect cure in me, and I can
strongly recommend it to anyone suffering from the
same complaint.—Yours respectfully, Charles
Strange, hairdresser and tobacconist, Auburn-
street, Goulburn, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
M.L.A. —Many Liars Assembled.
The N.S.W, General German Association
has decided that Herman Schneider must yoost
vling himselluf indo der logal polidigs like any-
dings-
It is a striking fact, remarks a Meib.
paper, that all the burglars in Sydney are recent
arrivals from IMelbourne, and all the burglars in
Melbourne are recent arrivals from Sydney.
It is the Smugocracy that adores Free-
trade. But it is an adaptable class, and when a
Protective duty is clapped on any of its “lines ”
it immediately becomes the “ Smuggle-ocracy.”
Squatting leaseholders in Riverina (N.S.
Wales) sublet parts of their runs to agriculturists
at from 12s. 6d. to .£1 per acre. The squatters
pay Govt, a few pence per acre all round ! Talk
of the tailor-sweater I
Editor Bulletin, —Howcan Premier King-
ston claim his Ministry to be free from Adelaide
Club influence so long as Education Minister
Cockburn retains his membership of that pluto-
cratic institution ?—R.
“ Ah,” cried an Electoral League Christian
and strong teetotal advocate, “If it were not for
that wine-bibbing scene at the marriage in Cana —
that one melancholy lapse of my great Master—
I’d give up all else to preach His word. But ’
The Vic. Works Minister will not allow
alcohol to be sold at any Government labour
settlement, and says he will dismiss the first man
or officer who is seen drinking. It is nevertheless
a fact that much traffic in intoxicants still goes
on.
Tozer’s little sum. Q. revenue, £3,000,000;
cost of Government (including St. Helena tobacco),
£2,000,000; interest on debt, £1,300,000; annual
deficiency, £300,000. To be made up by retrench-
ing the little colt, and the little mare, too, while
the big, big horse gets full, full screw.
The Italians introduced by Frairie, of
Townsville, some years ago, to supplement the
kanaka, have settled down, many of them, on the
Herbert. They form a nucleus of Crown settlers
fringed by a rim of fair-haired Scandinavians,
about the sturdiest colonists in Bananaland.
Says Bendigo Independent, the only paper
The Bulletin knows which hasn’t four times the
circulation of every other paper in Australia :
“ The Age’s game throughout these years might be
denominated Symeisra as opposed to the Slimeism
of its tuft-huuting, calf-worshipping, vindictive,
and caddish journalistic rival.”
Let the Australian Natives’ Association
clap a tin bauble on its swelling bosom if it wants
to; let it coil a coloured rag round its majestic
middle; but let it not perpetrate the vulgar error
of calling these things “regalia.” Kings are
often asses, but the asses who thus bedizen them-
selves are not therefore kings.
Tasmanian Govern-
ment asks for an ad-
journment in order to
formulate its financial
proposals. Granted ;
then out it goes.
Justin M'Carthy,
M. in North Ameri-
can Review, abolishes
the old-time theory that
the British House of
Commons is a dignified
and gentlemanly assem-
bly, and that the recent
free fight was something
altogether unprece-
dented. He gives a list
of modern House of Com-
mons rows, including the
many scenes of brutal
ruffianism when Brad-
laugh endeavoured to
take his seat and was
ejected; the riots and
cursings which used to
Rieet the unpopular
Kenealy; the yellings,
brayings, bowlings, cock-
crowings and general
blastedness of the august
assembly. Looking down
the record, even the
N. S. W. Crick-Haynea
fight looks like an open
and manly expression of
opinion by comparison
with some doings of the
Commons.
Cast-iron truth from Brisbane Worker :
Truly we have the best banking system in the world—
best for robbing the depositors of their hard-earned
savings. When one of our farmers loses his farm by
•Mortgage the capitalistic press say it is due to his
shiftless habits and want of thrift; but when one of the
hanks goes bung they charge it to the Labour-party.
During '93, N.S.W. gained by influx of
Population (otherwise than by increase of births
©ver deaths) only 1537 persons; Victoria lost
13,411 (!); Queensland (broken-up and bung)
actually gained 2302 (principally due to the trade
vitally of N.Q); South Australia gained 4025;
West Australia, 5223 ; Tasmania lost 1865; Maori-
la«d gained 10,412.
The oft-repeated assertion by church and
chapel dignitaries that one day a week is in-
sufficient for them to counteract the “ evil effects
°t the present ungodly system of State education,”
and to enable them to plant the germs of their
respective dogmas in young Australian minds, is
refuted by the Hebrews, who stand on the same
looting as other religionists in this regard, and
yet manage to keep their “flock” together. And
the most ignorant Jew knows more about bis
r ehgion, with all its many quaint ceremonies and
observances, than does the average Gentile, even
though the latter was educated at a religious
college.
The “coalition curse” is likely to over-
take Tasmanian politics during the present year.
Systems of State education are not com-
plete until secondary schools and universities are
free, and the bulk of the lectures of the latter
delivered at night. Until then, higher education
remains a monopoly of the leisured classes, and it
is probable that the existence of leisured classes
will be found to be the weak spot in all demo-
cratic societies.
Land-Minister Copeland’s picture, con-
jured up to inspire provincial resentment, of the
speculative selector who crosses the Murray, picks
out a piece of ground, sits down on a log, smokes
his x>ipe and waits for the value of his land to
increase by the labour of others, is, apart from
mere accidental details, an accurate portrait of the
large landholders of Australia.
An Age scribe on the Solomon Islands :
All other nations protect their subjects in foreign
climes (while they conduct themselves) except the English.
Here our prestige is pretty well gone.
Let us see : how long is it since a British ship has
shelled an island village? British prestige is a
tender thing—it is grossly outraged when a nigger
hits a British trader for fooling with his Mary.
One way of breaking down the trades-
union of the law is to open the avenues so that
any man, if he so choose, may become a lawyer.
This done, the lawyer will experience in his own
person the benefits of that competition of which
he approves when labourers are concerned, and
will be induced by the gentle pressure of the
struggle for existence to reduce his fees—in the
interests of the public, of course.
A provincial paper said lately that nine
out of every ten children in Australian State
schools know more about the watershed of the
Ganges than of the Darling, Murray, or Maranoa,
and more of the fauna and flora of Brazil than
of the mineral-bearing rocks of their own locality.
There is enough truth in this accusation to support
an educational reformer in a tooth - and - nail
criticism of the Australian systems of public
instruction.
Justice Williams has been lashing the dis-
honorary magistracy. The packed bench is, and
has been for years, a social stench in Victoria.
When a Liquor Commission sat in Melbourne, a
policeman, intimately acquainted with the hotels,
gave candid evidence about the bad ones, and the
system of packing benches. He was afterwards
forced to recant, and did so in the spirit of Galileo,
when that gentleman muttered, on his knees,
“It moves for all that.” *
The frozen-egg industry is being sedulously
worked up in Melbourne. A new epitaph :
Uriah Smith he’s buried here,
An M.P., he, no man of straw,
Bub when upon this lower sphere
He tended overmuch to jaw.
Once when he spouted from a keg,
A voter rose excitedly,
And smote Uriah with an egg.
The egg was frozen —R.I.P.
Some of Premier Dibbs’ critics are point-
ing out that his surplus of 1893 was entirely owing
to the fact that 200,000 acres of land were
auctioned during the year, and but for this source
of revenue there would have been no N.S.W.
surplus at all, These same critics don’t mention,
however, that Parkes, when in power, used to sell
over 600,000 acres per annum, and but for that the
province wouldn’t have been big enough to hold the
grand old bogus-Freetrade deficit.
Parkes though conspicuously habsent
from the ’Ouse when the ’ Indie business was on—
was not, as some malicious politicians hoped, one
of the Three Worst Men whom the Hindle
referred to. It’s a good while now since the Old
THE PRIVILEGE OF THE “CLOTH.”
MISS FASTBOY: “I suppose you never saw a lady smoke before.”
P ARSON ( emphatically ): “I’ve never seen one yet.”
Man made himself right with the saintly draper a
drummer, who was one of the Labour-members h©
was early “himpressed” with. “The great
/(elevation,” said he, recently, “hoi Mr. Tndle’s
moral character compels my most sincere hadmira-
tion.”
At Kumara, Maoriland, Premier Seddon
lately made what is described as a “characteristic
speech.” A bit: “He felt proud to be present
that night and witness the loyalty of Kumara
people. It was, as the Kumara Times had pointed
out in a recent article, of the moat vital import-
ance the Empire should be consolidated. It was
most important that the people should remain
loyal and deal a blow at the anarchy, republican-
ism and atheism which were ruining other coun-
trieB_(Loud applause).” Seddon is a O.M.G. at
heart, and his foot profanes the path where Bal-
lance trod. His “ atheism,” by the way, was a
mean dig at his brainy rival, Stout.
„, m . .. . ,
“ There is a cry now that the church
should take upon herself the burden and work of
elevating or improving the mater.alconditmnof
the masses. I think the cry is a mistake, ihe
Church is not called upon to doit.” Thus Rev.
J. E. Moulton, ex-President of Wesleyan Confer-
ence. First, John Wesley abandoned the Angli-
can Church because of its “Pharisaic aloofness ” ;
second, New Testament morality cannot be
separated from constant anxiety for the ameliora-
tion of the poor; third, the Wesleyan clergy are
ever found in the ranks of reformers, both social
and political, and have, in fact, more in common
with laymen, in press and on platform, than any
RELIEVED.
UNSTEADY WAYFARER: “Shay! am I going right for a pub?”
PREACHER : “If you keep on as you’re goin’, young man, you’ll soon get
to perdition.”
U. W.: “I shee. Perdishun Armish, I’sh supposh?”
other clerics. Rev. Moulton is therefore “ away
off ” at every point, and should be given a long rest
from representative duty.
S.M. Herald, which professes to have,
like Parkes and Toby Barton, “ Australian
Federation ” engraven on its heart, no sooner
hears of an English Quaker proposal to grab
half-a-million of acres of Victorian Murray
country for half -a - sov. an acre, than it
raises the bloody standard of riparian rights,
founded on an iniquitous Imperial statute that
gave N.S. Wales the whole of the Murray waters,
from bank to bank, and not merely to mid-stream.
In fact, past N.S.W. politicians have claimed,
under that same Act, that N.S.W. owns the
whole of the Murray, from source to mouth, thus
challenging bitter conflict with Victoria and South
Australia ;
The Herald, in prevarication,
Has chosen now to roar
The charms of Austral Federation
Combined with civil war.
Premier Patterson has ascertained to his
own satisfaction that only 2 per cent, of the Vic.
unemployed belong to any religious denomination.
This truly awful state of things, he distinctly
implies, has some connection, more or less definite,
with the circumstance that they are unemployed.
It is a pity Patterson doesn’t state definitely
whether the 98 per cent, are unemployed because
they don’t believe in a God, or whether they don’t
believe in a God because they are unemployed.
Further, he might explain how he found out these
facts about the religious condition of the masses.
Also, does it never occur to that aggressive howler
that the spectacle of Bent’s friend barracking for
the Almighty is just a trifle incongruous, and that
it is very rough on any deity—even a brass one—
to be believed in by Patterson ?
Woronora Times (Bulli, N.S.W.) : “ The
wheels of God grind slowly.”
Gov. MacGregor, of New Guinea, twitted
lately at Thursday Island on the discrepancy
between the name of his official judgment boat,
the Merrie England, and the death-dealing work
it performs among offending natives, pointed out
that “Merrie, ”as in the name of his boat, does not
imply joy on earth, but merely fame. “Merrie
England,” he said, “ was a historical phrase, but of
Teutonic origin, and was equivalent to “Famous
England.”
In Victoria, since
a heavy duty was put
on harvesting twine,
the price has gone
down about 15 per
cent. A ponderous
duty has been put
on imported brown
paper, and the price
of the locally-made
article has dropped
Bs. per cwt. The
price of tweed has
fallen 20 per cent,
since a massive tax
was levied on the
foreign-made article ;
and since a duty of
3s. 4d. per cask was
charged on imported
cement a factory has
been started which
turns it out at 10s. a
barrel, whereas the
price of the cheap
English article, im-
ported free of duty,
used to be from 13s.
to 18s. Of late, how-
ever, out of sympathy
for the oppressed far-
mer, the duty has
been taken off reapers
and binders and
cream separators, and
they haven’t gone
down in price—not
one cent. These are
solemn circum
stances. The Free-
traders have always
pointed to it as a
“self-evident fact”
that Protection must
increase prices, but
what on earth is the
use of a self-evident
fact which won’t come
true ?
West Australia may be described as a
profitable Forrest country.
A Melb. scribe knocks out a column by
making the hair of Mrs. Grundy’s flesh stand up,
over the local life-school, at the National Gallery.
The regular weekly meeting of Black Hdl
(Vic.) literary society was rudely interrupted th
other day. The meeting was engaged in ean es
debate, when a depraved individual came along
and howled discordantly on the door-step, an 1
when one of the members stepped out to remon-
strate, the person outside bit most of his ear off.
In nine cases out of ten, when you see a
man or woman with a too-radiant nose, you may
conclude he (or she) has earned it fairly. The men
“as per usual;” the women more commonly
by tight-lacing. Nature sometimes, however,
thus brands a miserable saint or sinner, without
rhyme or reason. And in one case her malignity
reached a pitch of virulence nothing short of
fiendish. The present writer has a friend who
long loved whisky unwisely well. A few years
ago he knocked it off, with the result that a very
serviceable nose of normal colour blazed into
frightful prominence. All his friends said : “Poor
Fitz-Bardolph is going to the devil.” Concluding
that he might as well be hung for the substance as
the shadow, he again took to his bosom the vip t-
juice. The nose-fire immediately died away. He
has had several tries since then, but each time he
knocked it off his nose glowed like a more furious
tomato. He has decided never to provoke it
again.*
Dear Bulletin, —Apropos secular educa-
tion and Bishop Dunne: the province of Westralia,
in which I was reared, is the only one where
denominational instruction is given in schools.
All denominations were, in my day, assisted by
the State, and the result is a continual war
between the sects. In my younger days I looked
upon the boys and girls of other denominations
as heretics and infidels, and hated them because
they were doomed to hell-fire. My religion
affirmed this, and I knew no better. I have
since cursed with a bitter curse those who taught
me such doctrines. Look at the harmony existing
between children of all denominations attending
our State schools, and compare the schools of the
State where priestcraft is paramount. The State
that is blessed with free and compulsory secular
education is the State where enlightenment and
liberal ideas prevail; but the State that tolerates
religious instruction is the place where bigotry,
prejudice, and rank conservatism are rife.—
Yours,
T.R.
THE MATTER DROPPED.
Holy Hindle preached a sermon against Legisla-
tive sin;
Dibbs called him to account
For his Sermon on the Mount,
He wriggled just a little like a moth upon a pin ;
For he wouldn’t name “ the three ”
Who were as bad as bad could be,
Or indicate the heroes of the yarns he didn’t spin.
Yet he stated quite enough
That was altogether rough
On some patriotic members who were kicking up a
din.
They swore to have him bundled from the Cham-
ber neck and crop;
Then they moved to reprimand him, and—they
let the matter drop.
Holy Hindle, in the future, needn’t hesitate or
shrink
From explaining in a prayer
How his brother members swear,
He can call the Lord to witness that he never
touches drink,
Or sells his little vote,
As in cases he could quote
Of blackguards who are dancing on demnition’s
awful brink.
His simple Sunday flock
He may scandalise and shock
By showing them the depth to which a Parliament
can sink.
He may babble on for ever, like the brook that
doesn’t stop,
And Dibbs will have no option but to let the
matter drop.


Ik
V
WM
mm
[these choice
pTi ALLOTfJENIs
m SALE-. I
&TTo.Fe[{ Loot, f i
THE TWO GREAT QUESTIONS
FOR SOLUTION.
“ I have tried to touch for a moment on
/the principal sources of Australian ♦wealth.
Ail of them are' ig ‘the ($l. W.hat Aus-
tralia needs is that they shou|d he dug out
o&the spil, and so-placed umri the-markets
of the world. 'Hqfv best to get
direct operation upon her gatural wealth
is the problem which she has set herself to
solve.”
Nr.
/a/id j-Ai.cul'aft/r Xc
c/uf oaf "a/ /ft «W
/jMD /^X.
“ Details of the Kanaka question lie
outside lay subject, I will only say
that in nq cobntfy which I have yet *
visited in aay quarter of the glfibe is
i ttVfc manual laboi/rer sb w6ll provided
fhr, Iso libefally paid, or so caref&lly
irdin Oppression, as tlje
Scfuth Seit in Queons-
kind
The inferior white person seen in the
oacfcgroifndj looks on with envy, wisb-
fng to goodness he had been bom a
nigger.
.."Two bOuhd^ry-j-iders may share a hut.
'Within a radius of 26 miles there may be,- per*
haps, no other living creatures.- pne of ' those
men may be a decent fellow, the other, a ruffian; .
or one may 'possibly be an English gejttleman, the
( other a man who- at home would have occupied
the position of his father’s herd. Their main
occupation is to ride for miles and miles every
day. They, in at eight hungry and tired |
to Add no food'cooked,.till the£ cook it; np beds
made till they make them, nO house cleaned till
they clean it. Half the time they cure too tired.
They eat cold meat, from yesterday’s' joints, and f
roll into unmade beds, glad in the morning to
leave the dirty shelter which theyf have no cour- ,
age to keep clean. -Of course, this picture varies.”
l lje ttatfer [Jill fya/«.liltle di||i catty
irf piehTJ)s out' fije. " EmliH) cftflitryayiij
sfafcfy "tiyere.is CL7
aDoal" T\rid fixity^
tij&t partis fl/z ttrijl?craC
n.
v-y M
d
One of the needs ql the society appeared to me to
be joung unmarried women, and many an English
girl should be. allowed to accompany their brothers,
mitigating the loneliness of the great wrench and
taking her part m the creation of a home.”
Ifb doubt, a b% brother would find the monoUny
of washing up ” greatly mitigated when carried on
to the accompaniment of a grand piapo
LATEST TERROR—A GLOBE-
TROTTER IN PETTICOATS.
tfiTrcx c /jr afio-fie/? teac/
oy /Jits */ fiefietof
Cefy,*./ Ipstfc/7
• o'
/*&
# f) ‘
jpV/S'
o’ <?
/#*V
\*>//
.«> Q
-4> ••
&*?/
” •/
f
rtty A
H^ svr
Kanak/\
"imm"
d
i
FLORAL SHAWSTRALIA.


(I
t)ur pionders and their suc-
cessors hate clone splendid work for us.
Their praise in the Gospel is through nil the
churches. Victoria and Tasmania are, and
have been, besturred with beauteous lights of
differing glory. Some of these are now lued
in heayjjily orbits for ever. i>
— M- Dfson
a /A e Wes lejra n
ConjQt en ce.
Public Mee~tinqs.
Ascot Vale,
It was going to
b«, be foarod, a terrible winter in the city and
e.t*ore in the country. If they could persuade
tie municipalities to more energetically in the
matter the State might be Induced also to take
action. %» ■
Port Melbourne
n
difficult problems must be
•olved before long, and it was imperative that
Parliament should be called together to deal
with them. Hundreds of people were on the
verge of starvation, * %
Coburg.
tt
—— it was a crying shame that the Premier had
not taken the initiative and summoned Parlia*
ment to do what could be done towards allevi*
ating the existing distress.*' (Cheers.) * 1
-^NOTI cE _ m
non'TOiiru**
001 stE E/>ER
H E I S T.RtO
d
■S'
I £
s.
K &LR* i f
%E SS 1
PUBLIC
LIBRRR v
',ll' •
n one citizen claims
the liberty to take off bis coat
others may exercise a larger and yet
more embarrassing degree of “ free-
“ dom." ' Every institution has its
own standard of j
2 ca»'t
-“V 6> ?? _^_
< e io remans
?-/ ' t>l “ -naked
/ AC . /V fi e 4 .
<*V* e { h
*- $ fit e s en » -
Harbor
ITRUST
C ° St 7
/
s
.
DE/v 10Op
rput R
JBRNQ u £ t
/ OR H
ChUP cH
I5>UM~$ TRUCCLE
in TH ?
<>LOT
find REAR rHE ;
FICURt TALK
C 0* ct ' s
d
d
n
The public meet-,
mgs that were being held about the ]
i-iibmbi urging an early session of Parliament |
were calculated to do more harm than good.
Talk
of that kind should be nipped in the bud. Let
those people beware ; also the newspapers that
encouraged such agitatlona *'
Tciifets .
The £cate ck£.hc*'
IN MELBOURNE.


WEST AUSTRALIA.
FORTUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those
•who bought Land in Sydney, Melbourne, Ade-
laide, and Brisbane years back, and Fortunes are
waiting for those who buy now in PERTH (the
capital city) and ALBANY, WEST AUS-
TRALIA.
GRAND VIEW ESTATE, PERTH, 70 feet
frontage x 132 deep, for TEN POUNDS ; Easy
Terms.
DARLINGTON ESTATE, ALBANY, Acre
blocks, from <£ls each; Easy Terms. CENTRAL
CITY LOTS, PERTH, from £4O each; Easy
Terms.
Titles guaranteed perfect. Nor forfeiture if ill
or oua of work. Send for plans and copy of
Government Map showing the true position of the
k THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY (Established, Perth and Sydney,
1885), 309 Pitt-atreet, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
d
Wonderful discovery !
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION,
rpHTS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Itllyht,
L Inflamed Dyes and Lids, Dim ties* of Slyht.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Dyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, 3s, per Bottle,
fif Manufactured Solelyby 11. A. BOSK, Chemist.
531 GEORGE wIREEX, SYDNEY.
Dont
let
any one
deceive
> ou:
There
can
be
no
or
il
f aF
WolfesSchnapps
Society
“ Why should we send to England for our
bishops ?” asks a Melbourne paper. Because the
great majority of influential Australian church-
goers believe that God lives in England.
• « *
The world moves. In W.A., the ordinary
citizen is not now bailed up after 10 p.m. and
asked whether he is “bond or free.”
# * #
Trial by Judge in Australia. At Adelaide
Sessions a man pleaded guilty to a charge of steal-
ing a watch, which was recovered and restored to
the owner. Three years hard. Then a land-agent
was convicted of stealing .£2OO, the property of a
client, which was not restored to the owner. Two
years hard.
• # *
It has been decided in Sydney, at the
instance, on appeal, of the local Animals’ Protec-
tion Society, that marking a pig by snipping a
piece out of its ear is not “cruelty,” Yet some
of the ladies who urged on the prosecution had
themselves pierced the ears of their own young
daughters to accommodate rings. These ladies
have hardly so valid an excuse as that pleaded by
the pig- breeders.
* * 9
The “funny story” told by the phono-
graph which was seized in Melbourne, last w r eek,
was a mild, tea-meeting anecdote compared to
some of the yarns that may be heard in the
smoking-room of any Parliament House in
Australia.
# # «
The new Wesleyan sisterhood in Melb. is
in grey, with chip hats, and the regulation all-
round big boys’ collars. This provokes the intense
disgust of the old school, as may be seen by read-
ing between the lines of president Dyson’s funny
address to the Wesleyan Conference. The variety
of Melbourne nundom is bewildering. Some
kinds of- it won’t look at you—others insist on
doing so.
• # *
A young man was fined 40s. for being
drunk in the vicinity of Lord Hopetoun in Mel-
bourne last week. The ordinary charge for it is
ss. This is how the cost to the people of imported
Governors mounts up.
* * «
Ballarat has resolved to open its art-
gallery on the “ Sawbath.” Geelong next. And
there may be a chance for the reform in Mel-
bourne when a few more of its most prominent
opponents are in gaol.
* » •
A young Sydney firm of solicitors has now
in its office no fewer than 16 J ivorce cases.
Dear Bulletin,
—Re Sappho Smith’s
remark that ladies
shouldn’t always go
first,, here’s an actual
occurrence. Gorgeous
s »ciety matron, on
North Shore boat, ar-
rives at bottom of
upper-deck stair
simultaneously with
mild male, who de-
corously ascends be-
fore her. G. S. M.
(audibly): “Gentle-
men do not precede
ladies!” M.M. (with
agonising distinct-
ness): “ Ladies know
that there is one ex-
ception to the rule ! ”
—Tickled.
# *
The privileges of
“gent, one’’apply to
even the tadpole of
that kind. A Melb.
law - clerk, to save
himself expenses, un-
der pretence of copy-
ing the document
boldly altered a Vic.
Supreme Court judg-
ment. When brought
before Madden, C.J.,
the latter lectured
and discharged the
clerk ! What in a
layman is heinous
forgery, is in a “ gent,
one ” etc.
# #
Need’s Rooms—
Sydney Domain.
# #
The formal expulsion of Isaacs, M.L. A.,
from Melb. Public Library (where he presumed to
wrestle with heavy literature in his shirt sleeves)
has been justified by the Argus. Wives, mothers
and daughters, also grandmothers and ancient
maids, can reckon on having their blushes spared
so long as that chivalrous journal can raise a
leader writer to fight for their sense of decorum.
The Isaaeian attempt to undermine the morals of
Melb. society was crushed by one of the most
weighty articles ever hurled at an insufficiently
clothed lawyer : —“The citizens,’’ said the Argus,
“ who, having coats, insist on the right to take
them off and sit partially undressed in a public
room where ladies may be present, are but a tiny
minority. And on the most ‘ democratic ’(a
scornful snort is expressed in parenthesis) prin-
ciples this microscopic minority may be wisely
coerced into putting their coats on when in com-
pany, and generally behaving with decency. The
rights of man do not, after all, include the right
of any individual man to make himself a nuisance
to the rest of his kind.”
A barber had a stroke of luck over a certain;
recent memorable Australian case. On the Sunday
when the jurymen were locked up, the Sheriff
went in search of somebody to give them their
weekly shave. The barber agreed to do it on his
own terms, as it was the Day of Rest, and
charged half-a-crovvn a head, Sheriff included.
Strict silence was enjoined, but on the Sheriff
leaving the jury-room for an instant, the barber
whispered into his subject’s ear, “There’s a lot of
betting outside on the verdict, sir, and if you
could give me a hint ” —Just then the Sheriff re-
turned and “ the barber went on shaving.”
# * *
A sign of the times. One swell Sydney
hotel now gives a collation with a sixpenny drink,
such as ordinarily costs, say, eighteenpence, even
in cheaply-fed Sydney. The class of persons who
absolutely rush the tables for two hours daily
proves that the cheap feed must do immense
harm to the adjacent restaurants; also, that there
must be an immense profit on the liquor, which is
chiefly English draught ale.
# # •
An Onehunga (M.L.) councillor was seen
to smile during a recent council meeting, Mrs.
Mayor Yates fixed her eagle eye upon the sinner.
“ This,” said the lady-mayor, in a death-like tone,
“is no place to smile.” Quite right—Onehunga
must now be a good place to weep in. Mrs.
Yates is an eminently serious lady herself, and
judging from her portrait she couldn’t smile any
se^ftw
KM
‘toVre
{ CLObBO
CHINESE' l|
■ueTTEiy/
’m» 4.1
sank.
0.8.
„<3
Jr
ow» N cjTO
DEPRESSION j
MORE MELBOURNE BANK SUSPENSIONS.
Owing to depression and the activity of the police, the whole of the
Chinese lotteries in Little Bourke-street have closed.
later than Wednesday at noon, for fear of breaking
the Sabbath.
*. * *
A Ballarat publican has been fined £5 for
delaying admission to the police on Sunday. One
of the officers deposed that there was “no sign of
drink about, but a strong smell of it.” Which
recalls a story of a Gollingwood constable
“ bashed ” by larrikins and taken to hospital for
repairs. A brother constable asked an attendant
how the injured man was getting on. “He’s
doin’very well,” was the reply, “ but he’s entoirely
shpoilt for the Sunday thradin’ work.” “How’s
that?” enquired the other. “Faix the blaggards
have knocked all the shmellin’ power out ov the
nose ov him, for good,” answered the attendant.
Adelaide fire brigade dashed out of their
den on Sunday night (Feb. 25) eager to extinguish
—the Aurora Australis. By the way, the Aurora
was observed all over Victoria, except at Melb.
Observatory—because it was Sunday !
*
The Salvationists always charge admission
to “ hallelujah ” weddings. Glory ! Why not
swell the N.S. Wales Treasury surplus by
charging gate-money to the Divorce-court?—
prices to vary, and to be fixed by Judge Windeyer,
after consultation with counsel, according to the
delicacy of the expected evidence. “ Zola v.
Zola (Decameron, co-respondent)—front seats
two guineas." It would draw like a blister.
GOING ONE BETTER.
GLOBE-TROTTER : “My ancestors fought with the conqueror of
England eight hundred years ago.”
BARMAID: “That’s nothing; my uncle fought with the champion of
the world, only eight years ago.”
Attorney-General Heydon (N.S.W.) seems
to be growing less squeamish since he consorted
officially with the Dibbs Ministry. He has
drafted a bill to give municipal bodies power to
authorise and regulate/ public bathing by day or
by night.
Old St, Joseph’s Church, Hobart, is,
perhaps, the only Australasian church in which
the prayers for the Queen are still intoned every
Sunday. St. Joseph’s, after its launching, more
than half-acentury ago, was manned by English
clergymen.
* * *
The latest scandal is the elopement of
a Vic. merchant’s wife, whose age far exceeds 40,
with a youth of 20 summers.
* * *
Bishop Montgomery (Tas.), who has been
appealing for a week of self-denial in aid of the
Melanesian Mission, while some of his own clergy
cannot get their stipends, has been deservedly
snubbed by Tasmanians.
m * «
The world is always so perfectly cocksure
about the sanity of every criminal whom it wishes
to hang that a leaf from the experience of Dr.
Vause, of Tempo Asylum, Sydney, who was not
long ago suddenly and savagely attacked by a
patient armed witii an office-knife, may be worth
noting. The man who thus fell upon the doctor
and almost succeeded in killing him (at least one
main artery was missed by but a hair’s-breadth),
was apparently so harmless that he had long been
trusted to do office-work. If the experienced Dr.
Vause can make so grievous an error as to the
mental condition of a man with whom he had long
been in daily contact, what chance has the law of
ascertaining, within the limited time allowed, the
real mental condition of a man who has committed
a sensational crime, which may prima-facie be
ascribed, on equally strong grounds, either to mad-
ness or to some cause consistent with sanity ?
• « #
The Bank of Victoria now employs at its
head office a lady type-writer. The thin edge of
the axe.
* # #
You can hire suits of clothes, not evening
dress, in Melbourne now. Next Cup Day
“ placing ” these will be a popular amusement.
A young Melbourne pianiste, who returned
from Europe a few months back laden with artistic
u a ■ ■ c i i . n ,
h ° noU f 1 and 1 ar ' slan frocks ’ unexpectedly
nipped her musical career in the bud. I ive-tmger
exercises at so much per quarter palled on one
fresh from Conservatoire triumphs, not to mention
a three-decked love affair on the mail-boat coming
out, involving a doctor, an officer and a Cairo
tourist. Moreover, the coldness of critics had
quenched the fizz of her first public appearance;
so when the Cairo tourist came up to the scratch
with a matrimonial cablegram, the impetuous
artiste packed her bits of things, shook the dust
of Melbourne off her feet, and departed for Afric’s
burning sands by P. and O.
The head stockmap
on a W.Q. station got a
heavy cropper and concus-
sion of brain. Manager
wired owner ; —“ Green-
hide Mick got serious fall
on camp—insensible last
two days. What shall I
do?” Reply: “Stop
wages from date of acci-
dent, and charge tele-
gram and reply to his
account.”
# * *
Problem for either
bookmakers, mathemati-
cians, or students of
human nature. An
official absconds leaving
an aching void of, say,
£2500. The Govt, offer
£lOO for his arrest. His
friends proffer the men
entrusted with the war-
rant <£2oo apiece not to
effect the arrest, and the
fugitive himself gives an
official who has spotted
him in an adjacent pro-
vince £3OO to “forget his
features.” What are the
odds to the Government’s
<£loo against the arrest
coming off?
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —A
parallel to your Austral
Salon-yarn. There was a
Vic. pressman who, on
the strength of a bogus-
reputation for classic lore,
was one night called upon
in jovial company for a
speech in Latin. “ Got
him, now?” thought some
of us but we hadn’t!
“ Columna sexaginta pede-
alta,” he began, and, what
with Latin-grammar-
scraps, legal axioms, and
musty aphorisms, he
dovetailed together the
most majestically sonor-
ous piece of nonsense con-
ceivable — finishing up,
amidst huge applause,
with “ Pessimum genus
inimi corum laudantes'l”
A. M.
Concerning hats, now that the autumn
shows are on in the shops, it is worrying to note
how the chief end of woman serves too often as a
support for a tray-load of feathers carried at right
angles to the head. Eor the coming hat the angle
is acute.
• * •
Miss Hopkins—probably one of the Timo-
thy Hopkins’ people of ’Frisco—an American
heiress, whose friends desired her to gild some
battered scion of British nobility, has, it is cabled,
got out of the difficulty by marrying a British
“bobby” at Leamington (Eng.). One day—let
us imagine—Miss Hopkins was taking a lonely
walk, musing the while upon the horrors of matri-
mony with a red-haired aristocrat who had gone
in both his knees, when she espied a well-set-up
policeman whispering sweet nothings to a pretty
cook. A strange yearning to cut out the low,
vulgar servant person came upon Miss Hopkins.
Also the policeman wore a helmet, anyway. She
begged him to direct her to the first street round
the corner, and the rest of the story came quite
naturally.
• « «
N.S.W. Judge Windeyer : “Experience
has taught me that criminals lie, lie habitually,
and lie to the last, although they stand on the
scaffold
Now, learned judge, don’t rant and rage.
Thou wert a lawyer erst,
And lawyers daily lie, for wage,
Pray, tell us which is worst?
The criminal who doth conspire
To save himself by lies.
Or barrister who lies for hire.
And that his fame may rise?
» * m
“ Sydney Government House is too small.”
—Westminster Gazette. “If Government
House were removed, Australia would be unbear-
able.”—Ditto ditto.
* m •
Tasmania’s “Governor’s speech,” at the
opening of Parliament, reckons with cocksure
faith upon the visit of the Yorks to Hobart,
during the holding of that city’s coming Ex-
hibition.
A QUESTION OF SEX.
Brother Isaacs, do you wonder that an editor’s distress’!
At your lack of common decency and breeding,
In taking off your coat and sitting partially undress'*
Where a simple-minded lady might be reading?
For the future kindly note
That a man without his coat
Is a spectacle immoral and unpleasant
In the eyes of other men—
More particularly when
There’s a chance of modest ladies being present.
By the sultry summer weather you were probably
oppress't,
And you shed your outer garment to get cooler;
But you can’t evade the point that you were “ partially
undress’t”
In a land where Mother Grundy is the ruler.
Will you venture to assert
That the showing of his shirt
Is a crime of which a man should be acquitted
By a jury of the sex
Who can go with naked necks
To a playhouse where the public are admitted ?
On behalf of “ lawanorder” do we solemnly protest,
In the name of Mrs. G., our social goddess,
That only lovely woman may sit partially undress’t.
Protected by a narrow strip of bodice.
The flashing of her skin
Doesn’t constitute a sin :
From dispensing with her cloak we never stop her.
And anyone may stare
At her bouncing bosom bare,
On the cheerful understanding that it’s proper.
Hey ! now for the bosomful mirth that will show
The curves of Hogarth in the briny ;
Hey! now for the cunning undress that will go
On the girl with the waist that is tiny.
Bow-curved in the uppers, wide-hipped in the scuppers,
With water-tight paddings, all shiny.
Hey! now for the muscular, strongly-limbed buck,
Who’ll exhibit his figure and torso,
And swim to the rescue of sweet-screaming duck,
Who is drowning in terror, of course, oh !
And modestly claim that his was the luck—
With a kiss as reward from the morceau,
Houp la! won’t we splash? Won’t we swim pick-a-back!
Won’t we take a salt foretaste of Aiden ?
In the swish of the sea, won’t the Jill find the Jack?
Won’t we float, pair and pair, man and maiden?
Won’t we play kick-along, foot-a-push, go it strong?
Won’t we warble the praises of Heydon ?
That’s to say, if he takes a broad view of the case,
Which, somehow, ’s a matter that vexes ;
But the Councils can regulate matters apace,
If no Gimlet their humours perplexes,
And the plea on us laden is—“ Please, Mr. Heydon,
Don’t compel separation of sexes.”


TO THE LADIES.
It is generally admitted that you, ladies, have on
your shoulders the responsibility of the household,
and the care of providing for the welfare, at home,
of your husbands and the children.
You no doubt act up to the best of your abilities,
and yet there is one pertinent question which we
should like to ask you.
Do you give your children a drink
OUT OF THE TAP
when they are thirsty ?
If you do, you are running a fearful risk, especially
in the country, of bringing unwelcome visitors into
your home.
TYPHOID AND HYDATIDS
Are very prevalent just now in Sydney, and half the
cases are brought on by drinking unflltered water.
Now, in m iking up your mind to purchase a filter
at once, there is just one thing to beware of—and
that is the old-fashioned Sponge or Carbon Filters ;
and one thing to remember —that since the water in
Sydney is deficient in lime, the best filter to buy is
A LIMESTONE FILTER.
Let nothing induce you to buy any other kind. If
you do, you will he sorry.
TOBIN &. DAVIDSON’S “RAPID”
LIMESTONE FILTER is the best in the world.
It obtained
FIRST PRIXE
at the late Chicago Exposition, and costs, in the
small size, onl.) XOs. Cd.
Only IDs. 6ci.
For 10s. Cd. you can fulfil a grave duty, and dis-
charge a serious responsibility.
Order through your local storekeeper, or, if in
town, call at our Show-rooms, 393 George-street,
opposite Royal Hotel.
A line from you will bring our illustrated circular,
telling you all about it. [Mention this paper, we
want to test its value.]
HOLDS WORTH, MACDUJSUSON & CO.,
393 George Street, Sydney.
Send ONE and 3 PENCE in STAMPS
(OF ANY COLONY;
And PURCHASE (Post Free) any one of the following Useful Reference Books :
Profitable Poultry Book
The Self-Educator Book
Picture Frame-making
Ready-made Speeches Book
How to Play Billiards
Colonists’ Guide to Health
How to Train—Running, etc.
The Popular Song Book
House Painting and Papering
Whist and Card Gaines
Athletics and Gymnastics
Familiar Quotations
Character in Faces, etc.
Letter Writer’s Manual
Character in Handwriting
Handy Book on the Horse
Handy Carpentry Book
Manual of Book-keeping
Also, theJallowing Australian Yarns, Detective Stories, etc ,
Geoffrey Hamlyn (H. Kingsley)
Eulalie(VV. S. Hayward)
Lost for Gold (K. King)
Botany Bay (J. Lang)
Assigned to His Wife (J. Lang)
Gold Hunters’ Adventures (Thomas)
A Study in Scarlet (A. C. Doyle)
The Sign of the E'our „
Light that Failed (R. Kipling)
The Right Sort (A. Kennard)
Out of Hurly-Burly (M. Adeler)
Elbow Room (M. Adeler)
Moina (L. L. Lynch)
A Slender Clue (L. L. Lynch)
Crime of Xmas Toy (H. Herman)
Broken Bonds (Hawley Smart)
False Cards „ „
Play or Pay „ „
WARD, LOCK k BOWDEK, Ltd.* 12 MacKillop Street, Melbourne.
Men’s boots, 3s. 9d. in Melbourne.
Erard & Co.’b Pianos
W. H. PALING and CO., Limited,
Have just recehed a shipment of NEW PARISIAN
MODELS of these celebrated Pianos, in which have been
introduced VARIOUS IMPROVEMENTS of great impor-
tance, adding materially to the already well-known soli-
dity of construction and beauty of tone.
c grard $ go.
Grand Pianofortes.
Upright Pianofortes.
J&T W. H. Paling & Co., Limited, SOLE AGENTS for the
celebrated High-class
Pianos Pianos
by Steinway and Sons, Erard and Co., Julius Feurich,
Uebel and Lechleiter, Carl Ecke, Gdrs and Kallmann, the
“Victor,” the “Belling,” etc. Also, have a large and
select stock of all other well-known makers, such as
Collard, Kirkman, Lipp, etc.
BSTBY ORGANS.
Made upon honour, sold upon merit, known the world
over. The best and cheapest.
Boosey's Perfected Band Instruments.
The best for lone, tune and durability. Have received
First Prizes at all Exhibitions.
Easy Terms. Easy Terms.
Instruments sent everywhere on receipt of small deposit
and monthly instalments. Liberal Discount for Cash.
SHEET & BOOK! 3VCTJSIC.
WIND & STRING INSTRUMENTS.
Illustrated Catalogues of Music, Pianos, Organs, Band
Instruments, etc., sent post free on application.
Pianos repaired or taken in exchange. Expert Tuners.
"W. 3E3C. Paling & Co. (ltd.),
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
There is an aldermen’s gallery in Sydney
Town Hall. Wanted, a ratepayers’ gallery.
• * •
The two deaths under chloroform at
Sydney, last week —one in a hospital operation,
the other in a dentist’s chair—were both certified
as due to cardiac syncope. It seems still a
moot point whether a patient who succumbs
during the administration of chloroform does
die of cardiac syncope. He or she faints from
cardiac syncope, certainly, but it is questionable
whether death does not _ really result from
asphyxiation by “drowning” in chloroform
vapour, by reason of the existence in the Jungs
air deprived of its oxygen. Now, in the hospital
case, artificial means of respiration were used for
half-an-hour, without avail; in the dentistry case,
for about 20 minutes. The writer knew, six
years ago, a Brisbane doctor who persevered with
a chloroform-self-poisoned “corpse” for two-and-
a-half hours, and, by subcutaneous injections of
ether and ammonia, and an indefatigable refusal
to give up hope, brought the unwilling dead
man” to life. That man is still living. Nearly
every death under chloroform is, in the opinion
of experts, due to the administration of too strong
a dose. But what is a mugful for one patient is
not a thimbleful for another. Hence the great
marginal latitude of medical opinions on the sub-
ject. The jury which sat on the woman who
died in a dentist’s chair expressed an opinion
that dentists ought not to take out ‘ so many
teeth in one sitting.” Query: Name the maxi-
mum. _ *
# * *
Beer is selling in Melbourne at 4|d. a
bottle; and at one hotel the price is 2d. a pint.
Think of the potentialities of half-a-crown !
# * •
The Pentridge prison convicts, who are
undercutting legitimate firms in the price of road-
metal, are allowed cushions to sit upon while
breaking stones. Contractors who employ free
men don’t often provide them with cushions.
# * •
From last report of the hon. sec. of Car-
rington Convalescent Hospital (Camden, N.S.W.):
“ The poultry-farm yielded a large supply of fresh
©;gs.” Weally ?
* * *
Dear Bulletin,—“ M I G.” says women
don’t like beards, and then he says they do-' the
short-cropped, Labouchere article, which was
exactly what I meant when I referred to our
present revival of the Francis Drake style of
thing. The patriarchal door-mat wants a tower-
ing presence to play up to it, and the billy-goat
appendage of the tallowy saint is seldom his only
point in common with that delectable animal. M..
• * •
Not long ago, a literary individual presumed
to criticise a certain Australasian Art Exhibition,
whereupon somebody—it must have been a woman
—alleged, in a local paper, that the critic himself
knew nothing of art, but that “ his late wife, now
resiling in England^was acknowledged to be a
lady of considerable culture and refinement.
Whi fi was a nasty jar for the critic who had been
re-married but a few months.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, —Don’t let us hear any
more rot from certain interested Labour-members
on the camel-question. A.nyhody can run
camel, which is simply “don’t-care-a-damn on
four legs, with no predilections, no attachment!,
and no memory for anything but injuries. He
doesn’t know one driver from another, and doesn t
want to, and when he is lost he is lost, for he
never tries to find his way to anywhere, but goes
straighten, “boundless, endless, and sublime.
Otherwise, the horse isn’t in it with a brute that
can put away six gallons of water in two minutes,
—store half of it in his fourth stomach, and then
go a week without another “wet;” that can
carry eight cvvt. three miles an hour for 20 hours,
rest the other four, and keep on ditto for a fort-
night ; that can, without stopping, pick up a
dinner where a horse would see nothing to eat,
andean, when all else fails, live for a week “on
his hump ” —re-absorbing the fatty tissue till his
back gets nearly as level as a bullock’s. The
horse must go in the Far West; and so must the
Af gh an. —D ROM EDARY.
» * #
There is scope for much profound moral
reflection uttered through the nose in that
divorce-case, heard the other day in Melbourne.
The plaintiff, a Dutch gentleman, introduced co-
respondent to his wife in the first place. Then he
seems to have blackmailed that miserable person for
some time, and finally he sold his wife to him for
<£lsoo, and gave a receipt for the money. Next,
in his artless Dutch fashion, he took divorce pro-
ceedings against the lady, and his receipt for the
sale of her naturally turned up in evidence. There-
upon the whole force of outraged justice struck
him in the centre of the chest and bowled him
over. It was a first-class occasion for the delivery
of a few moral precepts from the Bench, and the
Bench delivered every moral precept there was in
it. When it had finished delivering precepts it
refused the divorce with indignation, and con-
sequently the respondent is legally tied for life to
the man who sold her and held her up to general
execration. She did not defend the action, a,nd
apparently she is as anxious for a separation
as he is. The law sympathises with her to some
extent, and if her husband was several shades
less objectionable the separation would be granted,
but just because of his objectionableness she can’t
get rid of him. A reasonably logical course
would have been to grant the divorce as a blessed
relief to both parties, and confiscate the =61500
which was the wife’s purchase-money, and settle
it on the children, said children to be brought up
by the State, and then to fire the petitioner and
the respondent and the co-respondent out of the
country. But then the law is never logical.
* • »
The lovely Maorilandress, having obtained
political franchise, is now agitating for equal
franchise in church elections, the corollary being—
synodswomen and female parsons. The Bulle-
tin sees it coming—the fight over: “Does the
Deity wear petticoats?”
Advertisers of their own unspeakable
grovel want “Katoomba ” to be re-named Darley-
ville. Pah! Why not call Sydney Noseybobtown?
The fluff of flunkeyism ! Rot!
The scurf of serfdom ! Blot and Plot!
If native namings you must rob,
Let Darley rip, take Nosey Bob,
The truer “ worker ” of the two—
And may he swiftly “ work off ” you.
A GOOD JUDGE.
MISSIONARY (visiting cannibal islands) : “I shall leave one of my young friends here to fill
you with the peace that passeth all understanding. Which shall it be?”
C HIEF: “That one fat fella.”
At Govt. House, Brisbane, the other night,
Charley Blank, who knows everyone in the pro-
vince, from his Ex. to the lamp-lighter, took down
to supper a very pretty girl newly arrived from
England. Having seen her wants attended to,
the waiter beamed on her escort: “Now, Charlie,
old man, what can I get yer fer yerse’f ?”
* • *
Judge Murray (N.S.W.) holds that a cor-
poration has no power to enforce a lighting-rate
against a ratepayer whose property is not directly
benefited by the corporation’s lighting system.
On the other hand, it is contended that, as defen-
dant travelled at night over the roads lighted by
the council, he benefited by the lighting and
became liable for rates. Argument pending.
• • •
The police force of Sydney is now so
demoralised that some constables ordered to carry
revolvers leave them at home, and others ordered
to leave them at home take the weapons with
them.
* « •
Embling, M.L.O. (Vic.) declares that in
the course of his election campaigns he has kissed
every infant in his electorate. Someone ought to
writeup “The Candidate as an Agency for the
Spread of Disease.” Anyhow, The Bulletin
hereby gives notice that no candidate —even a
medical candidate and poet like Embling—is going
to kiss its infant during the forthcoming electoral
campaign, under pain of losing its vote and in-
terest. The politician who licks every more or
less diseased offspring in the constituency, and
brings samples of its complaints on his counten-
anoe to bestow on every other infant, is not fit to
be in the Legislature, no matter what his prin-
ciples may be. If a Labour-candidate comes and
licks The Bulletin's infant, this paper will go
away and vote for the National Ass on sanitary
grounds.
Answers to Correspondents .
Mo notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Yankee” (Hobart): We can’t answer either
question... “A Worker”: Thanks, but we decline to
publish your scheme for poisoning a whole city in one act.
We don’t want 300,000 corpses on our conscience
“Homo” : In short, you want to know what chance a
man would have had if arrested by mistake for the Carcoar
murder, with bloodstains upon him, supposing he looked
exactly like Glasson, and Mrs. Phillips had identified him
by mistake, and all the witnesses who could explain the
bloodstains had died suddenly? Well, suppose further
that the Judge who was trying the case also died suddenly,
and all the jury fell dead in the box, and the Crown
Prosecutor went mad —what then?... “H.W.K.” (Moor-
land,) : Only one verse worth preserving
Hurrah ! I’m mad, I feel the demons hold me.
Ghosts and spectres, ever before me flee ;
And many serpents, coiling round I see.
The man who hurrahs under these circumstances must be
an eminently cheerful individual “ Isaak ”: We don’t
know the lady's age and wouldn’t tell you if we did ...
“Bubbles”; Received “La Plume”; The begging
parson always asks you to “give something to the Lord.”
He thinks he is the Lord, probably ...“Pygmalion”:
Can’t say, but The Bulletin’s private opinion is that the
Peel who wrote the paper on Australian banks is really
the Dora Dora blacks disguised as Harry Rickards....
“ A.A.8.” (Auburn): An old, old story, written up in a
dreary strain, and with no new ideas in it. Leave old
subjects alone, unless you have something new to sav, or
something old to say in a new way.... “ J.G.D.’ (Rock-
hampton) ; The Caledonian and Australian Mortgage and
Agency Co. is the only one we know which is anything
like the name mentioned. It is a big English Co., and its
shares are not quoted in Australia. Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
the local representatives, will supply information
“Invercargill”: Local humour, which only arouses a
smile within a three-mile radius... “Francis T ”
(North Fitzroy): Well-written, but we altogether disagree
with your views about the latest Pattersonian move....
“H.H.C.C.”: Poem calculated to cause depression, sui-
cide, sudden death, and caterpillars in wheat...." L.L.”
(Melbourne): “Donohue ’’ depends for its humour on the
fact that the hero is Irish, and there isn’t necessarily any
humour in being Irish “1.R.”; It doesn’t sound
specially amusing the way you write it “C.A.C.”;
Metre too jagged to serve any useful purpose - or any other
purpose for that matter...“ Creditor, Q.D.8.”: Thanks....
“Ned Rover”: Don’t remember it “One of the
Cloth” (Melb.): Accepted . . “Charleville” ; Looks spite-
ful “The Corpse”: Many thanks “Scorpion”: You
are surprised that we don’t print your story, “although
you wrote it on the lines of stories which for seven years
past you have contributed to several London papers.”
And then you add: “ But to learn one must come to Aus-
tralia. Oh! ye little gods! ” “Chari ” (Grong Grong);
All very well to demand the ejection of DibbS on account
of the Broken Hill infamy—but whom are you going to
put in instead? If you simply throw Dibbs out promis-
cuously, Parkes—the Treason Felony Bill groveller—takes
Iris place. Then the cause of Liberty would feel a lot better,
wouldn’t it? Almost anybody is preferable to Parkes,
who has humbugged Australia for 40 years... “The
Bard ” : Will read seven or eight times more, in the hope
that it will improve on further acquaintance . “8.J.”
(Grenfell): No “T.A.E.”(Pahiatua, M.L.): Please learn
to spell and punctuate decently before you send out
great indigestible slabs about the “Rise and Pall of
Greek Supremacy.”.. . “Mungil” (Jundabyne): Thanks
“M‘L.” (Broken Hill): You say that you “will be
happy to write humorous articles for The Bulletin
periodically.” Well, you will have to climb over our
corpse to do it. No man will write such tales
as yours for The Bulletin while we are alive
“A. Dowling ” : Sydney to Fremantle, £9, Ist; £5, 2nd ;
Fremantle to Geraldton, 505., Ist; 305., 2nd. If you have
pluck, health, and a little money, try the Murchison gold
field, £2 to £5 from Qeraldton ... “E. R. Shaw ” : See no
points about your will-of-the-wisp letter “The
Breaker”: Not up. But cheer up....“R. M‘K.” :
Thanks “ B ithos ” : You haven't the knack of story-
telling “ R.R.11.” : Grievance too vague “ D.A.” :
Sad version of a stale theme “M.” (Burwood):
Doggerel suits subject, but not Bulletin “ Paul
Blunt”: You must count your feet, and train your ear,
and study better poets “Tom Gayndah”: Don’t
think that lOU would pass. Anyhow, the yarn won’t—
“M.” (Mudgee): Small interest; may use—“ The
Jingler”; Some merit; will keep... “H. Kouweigh ” :
Fair idea ; poor treatment “J.E.C.”:No, thank you
....“6xB” : Answers Feb. 3 and 10 ; you don’t read the
paper. Again—“Dougan” tolerable; “Camp-Oven”
good; “Chance” worthless “G.W.J.”: Interviews
with St. Peter worked to death “G.F.”: Mostly use-
less “Chromo”: Dull masher; brighter barber and
husband; but such sketches unsuitable without plot-
thread... “Scotty”; “Extermination” below par..
“M.” (unspecified): Kookaburra has points, but not
enough points “E.A.D.”; A crude, incestuous
horror.. . “J. Dunn”: We’d back Bismarck even when
Gladstone was in his prime. Gladstone has too many
scruples, Bismarck has none ; and his right always
gets in first... “J.W.K.”; Please cease the constant
dropping of dull pars. We’re wearing away fast enough
without you .. “Australian Stella”: A weird, soulful
gurgle “T.P.N.”: Recitation “ Kissing-Cup Winning
for Hilloxton ” never appeared in Bulletin. [Can
any reader say where to get it ?—Ed. B.]
“ E.W.L.” (5.8.): Probably an aneurism. See a first-
class surgeon at once “ J.J.F.” : Bulletin pays for
what it prints, and endeavours to return rejected MSS.,
for which, however, it takes no responsibility “ War-
rengar ”: Write Gordon and Gotch, Sydney, enclosing
stamp for reply. If unsuccessful, write New York. .
“ Greyrigg” (Vie.): Your “style” is admirably adapted
to getting a newspaper into gaol “ Hugh Cameron ’’:
Utterly hopeless... “ Fishook ” : Dogs are required in
the country; but they are a curse in town “ D.W.”
Climax of “Conjugal Love” too much a matter-of-course
“Doomed”: See a qualified doctor. ....“ Patient”
(Gym.): The man who thus physics himself is a fool. You
have in your town some excellent medical men. Go and
see one. Your secret is as safe with the average doctor
as it is with the Almighty....“ Wager” (Wil.): Yes, he
could claim four divs.. . “ Bilgol ”: Printed in all the
dailies. The average Yankee, no matter how ignorant he
may be —and his ignorance of everything outside God’s
own great U-nited States is often stupendous—is the
tersest letter-writer on earth “A.”: “Donah” is a
Hebrew slang-word for a half-Jewess.., “ Ororo ”: The
Active Service Brigade would hail as a boon the closing
of Sydney Domain. They number now, perhaps, a few
hundreds ; to close the Domain would make ihem as many
thousands “ A.W.” (Dargaville): Thanks..,. “ A.S.”:
You tell only two-thirds of the truth “The
Smuggler”: Not worth smuggling “The lyre”:
Short, yet we wished it shorter ‘B. M.” ;
Some points; insufficient novelty and intens’. .
“ Spokeshave ”: Readers aren’t cows, and a story
isn't a waterhole to ramble all round and get bogged in.
“Mabel Holmes”: Goggles theme stale; too long
for merits “J.G.”: Dull; not new.... “R.A.M.” ; It
is a sheepish production “ O.H. W.” : Most ill-advis> d
to lift that song “from the cellars of your brain.” Shut
it up again and put a heavy weight against the door.
It’s dangerous. . .“Inde”: The same old melancholy
wail.. .“Jake”: Not bright enough “J.P.” (Tas.):
Where’s the point? ~.“Omo.”: The amateur nun is a
mere fisher of men ..“R.C.8.”: We want condensation,
not elongation. Nuggets, not gold-leaf “L.F.”; It
you are going to horsewhip a man, never tell him, else he
might blow the bump of self-esteem off your skull with a
Derringer.... “ Anti-Maxim Gun ” : What is it all about?
“ Facilis Decensus ” : We must return your of
“short story.”
M‘Burney, Wallis & Co.
The enterprise and business tact of this fast-pro-
gressing firm of wool and produce brokers is again
apparent in two neat little works we have just
received from them in pamphlet form, one being
entitled “Marsupial Skins: Hints to Trappers
and Shooters,” the other “Butchers’ Produce : A
Guide to Butchers.” Both these works are the
outcome of the long experience the members of
the firm have passed through in the trade, and
will be found of great value to those who send
produce and furred skins to the Sydney market
for sale; for “get-up,” combined with faithful
attention on the broker’s part, is the secret of a
good sale. Messrs. M‘Burney, Wallis and Co.
are forwarding the books free to all who ask or
write for them. Their address is Box No. 880,
General Post Office, Sydney.
A New Sydney Firm.
Mb. J. H. Radford, late of the firm of Messrs.
George Wilcox & Cos., has severed his connection
with that firm, and is starting business on his own
account under the style of J. H. Radford & Cos.,
wool and produce brokers (buying) and furred
skin merchants. The firm’s offices are in Wool
Exchange, Macquarie Place. Mr. Radford has
been associated with his old firm for many years
as managing partner, and has gained wide spread
popularity both with buyers and sellers, besides
proving himself a thorough business man at the
wool trade.
At a picnic which lately took place at the
National Park, Mr. Vicars proposed the toast of
the new firm of J. H. Radford & Cos., which was
warmly received.
“In Love’s campaign, victories are won
by flight.”— Napoleon.
N.S.W. Justice Stephen, despite family
traditions, remarked the other day that it ap-
peared to him that the curse of Australia was too
much Parliament-made law.


SKINS
Kangaroo, OppossunL Babbit.
AND ALL OTHEE SKINS.
d
IEIXITIEISrSI'V'.KJ PEEPAEATIOUS FOB T 1 ZEE 353 O O ZMI XIST C3r SEASOIT
M‘BURNEY, WALLIS
ď
15 to 29 years with the late Firm
of Mort & Co., and Golds-
brough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Stores Margaret Street and Circular Quay. Offices—Macquarie Street, Sydney.
he Best House in the Trade for PERSONAL ATTENTION to Consignments and MEMBERS OF THE FIRM CONDUCT ALL SALES «T WRITE FOR
m __ vjurx, iiUUivw uiN ii±K (jrEi-UF OH SKINS, etc.
sneepsKins and, Butcliers’ Produce a Speciality.
TATTLES ALLS
SYDNEY CUP —26th MARCH.
SYDNEY CUP —26th MARCH.
FINAL HANDICAP— 31st MARCH
MARCH HANDICAP— 21th MARCH
“ TATTEUSAU,"
Care of George Adams,
“The Telegraph” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
Brisbanet Queensland
SSS3BH LIVE FOR EVER!
Was the salute tendered to King Solomon by his people.
Nevertheless Solomon the Wise died at a comparatively
early age, because he did not know how to care for that
most important organ of the human body, the liver, which
has justly been considered the great centre of life’s
machinery. In it is stored the nutriments absorbed
during digestion, which is gradually given out into the
blood to keep up the vigor of the human organism. When
the Liver ceases to do its work the head is heavy, thoughts
come slowly, the tongue is dirty, mouth tastes foul, appetite
is poor; sleep is disturbed, bile circulates in the blood,
causing a yellow tinge in the skin and eruptions, fits of
coughing, slimy expectorations, and pains in the right side.
If this condition is not checked, the consequences will be
serious to the sufferer. The best and never-failing remedy is
Fuss’s
Liver Restorative
Constipation Cure
It is a Certain Eemedy for all Disorders of the Liver and Kidneys, Indigestion,
Impaired Appetite, Flatulency, Sour Eructations, and Bilious Headache. It relieves
and cures Piles and Constipation permanently by continued use.
I AFIICQ find it an invaluable home remedy, it being an efficacious aperient
LRUILO of pleasant aromatic taste, neither nauseating nor griping. In its results
against the over indulgence in food or liquor its effects are marvellous. A
few doses prevent sea-sickness.
The Unprecedented Success FUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND
CONSTIPATION CURE has met with has induced the inventor to
offer the refund of the price, 2s. 6d., if the medicine fails to cure or
relieve the ailments he recommends it for.
Sold Everywhere.
m I
THE GREAT
99
Scandinavian Remedy
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Chest and Pulmonary
Complaints, Nervous Exhaustion, Rheumatism,
Ootit, Chalky Oout, Sciatica, lumbago, Neuralgia,
Bright’s Disease, Kidney and Diver Disorders,
British Cholera, and all Blood and Skin Diseases.
Thespian Institute, 168 Bay-street, Glebe, Nov. 22, ’93.
Professor Thulinius.—My Dear Sir,—l feel I should be want-
ing in duty, did I neglect the opportunity of sending you my
testimony as to the wondrous efficacy of your rheumatic
specific. For the past ten years I have baen a complete
martyr to rheumatism in all its forms. I have tried doctors
• • • . with a view of effecting a cure for this most trying
disease I am well-known, and scores can testify
that at best I could only crawl about with difficulty. . . '.
After leaving Little Bay Hospital at the close of last year I
was persuaded to try a bottle of your “Thulinius,” and in a
week or so afterwards I could get about fairly well. Upon
again suffering a relapse last February, I took another bottle,
with an equally successful result; but at last I determined to
go through a course of treatment, and I have just completed
my fourth bottle, with the gratifying knowledge that I am
quite free from pain, can walk any reasonable distance with-
out fatigue, have an excellent appetite, and feel myself again
competent to re-enter my profession, added to which my oft-
repeated attacks of pleurisy have become a thing of the past.
I have not dieted myself in any way, so all the credit'is due to
your wonderful remedy, under Providence, that my blood is
becoming purer daily, and its effect upon my liver and kid-
neys most pronounced. ... 1 shall only be too glad
personally to convince fellow-sufferers of the benefits to be
derived from a course of your treatment, as exemplified in
my own case, after ten years’ martyrdom.—l remain, yours
faithfully, W. H. NEWTON NEWMAN (Teacher of Elocution
and twenty-five years Actor and Manager)
[The Rev. J.D. Langley, St. Philip's Parsonage, and Mr. H. H.
Lusk, Barrister-at-Law, can testify as to the crippled state of
Mr. Newman prior to his taking “Thulinius."]
—FOR—
Depot: is VIUTUKIA ARCADE, entrance from Elizabeth-street (near King-street) and Castlereagh
street, opposite “ The Australia” Hotel, SYDNEY. BOX 1405 0.P.0.
Write for Pamphlets and particulars of successfully treated cases.
MSgIAN
remedy
đ
DU. A. WILFORD HALL'S
GREAT HYGIENIC DISCOVERT
For the cure of nearly all diseases without the use
of Medicine.
The appliance complete, comprising one gallon bronzed
Fountain, six feet of good quality Rubber Tubing, Nickel-plated
Clip and Ivory Rectum Tube, with Free Book containing full
Instructions, price ss„ posted 9d. extra
Donald Kurtz. 264 Russell St.. Melbourne.
% i
The Accident Coupon Insurance Company of
New York,
13 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE CASH BONUSES for the month of February were
balloted for yesterday in the presence of the repre-
sentatives of this paper and policy-holders, and was con-
ducted to the entire satisfaction of all present. Balance-
sheets can now be obtained by policy-holders on applies
t'on personally or by post.
The following is the result:
Number of Policy-holders for February, 1000.
First Cash Bonus .. Policy 605.
Second Cash Bonus .. Policy 775.
Third Cash Bonus .. Policy 11.
Other successful Policies as follows;
I
SY~ ID ICT IE YT CTJP,
Randwiek, March 26, 1894.
10.000 at 2-6 (40 extra ones), and 10,000 at 1 (45
extra ones).
33 aster Handicap,
Eagle Farm, March 26, 1894.
10,000 at 2-6 (35 extra ones).
Birthday Cup,
Randwiek, May 26,1894.
10.000 at 2-6 (40 extra ones), and 10,000 at 1
(45 extra ones).
Address "STAB,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE.
MOW HEADY.
AUSTRALIAN
FORM AT A GLANCE.
Is.— Posted fob (Stamps) Is. Id.
PERFORMANCES OF HORSES
Entered for the
Newmarket Handicap
and the
AUSTRALIAN CUP
Shown at a glance, and forming the quickest, best
and most reliable reference published.
Can be Obtained prom
CHAS. WESTBROOK,
116 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite G.P.O.
Telephone No. 1542.
Telegraphic Address : “ Westbrook,” Sydney.
ALBURY MISSING WORD COMPETI-
TIONS. DOUBLE GUESSES-No. 6.
“Self-defence was the object aimed at when arming
the Sydney police with revolvers. If the weapon is other-
wise employed, constables will become particularly
citizens, and cause more alarm to the public than to the
burglar and garrotter.”
CLOSES APRIL 14. Competitors allowed two
guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O. Order, 1/1
if in stamps. Add exchange to Postal notes other
colonies. Total amount (less 10 per cent.) divided amongst
successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited with Mr. T. F. Hughes,
the well-known Albury Bookseller.
No. 6 Competition closed with 822 guesses. The re-
quired word was “Qualifications,” the sentence, when
completed, reading—“ The question now is, how far the
women’s franchise in New Zealand, if taken full advant-
age of, will influence the social qualifications of the rising
generation ? ”
The successful guessers were—Jane Challis, Pitt-street,
Waterloo; Mrs. M. Walshe, North Wagga; A. S. Garfield,
Benalla P.O. ; Matthew Elwood, Rattray-street, Dunedin,
N.Z. ; Sissy Pelt, c/o. Mrs. Knowles, Smith-street, N. Fitz-
roy. Dividend, JB3 Its. each. Predominating guesses—
status, aspect, condition, life, position, and character.
One N.Z. competitor named “ Mayoress” asalikely word.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
d
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the otheri
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 60 KINO STREET
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor r.EO. W. EM,IS.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Hova s win in the Newmarket Handicap wa
rather a triumph for the touts who had timed him to be
a “good thing" for the race, but another watch-breaker
in Fortunatus helped to balance matters by running
badly enough, Possibly Hales had more than a little to
do with Hova’s clever finish, and the backers of Bruin,
complaining that a change of jockeys would hare changed
the result, were not wailing at random. Bruin was
ridden all the way on popular Australian principles, and
Hales, with just such another horse under him, simply
outgeneralled the boy, in the same way as he has out-
generalled every rider, except Mick O’Brien and Gorry,
for years past. Capstan, The Bulletin’s suggesFon for
this mad struggle, managed to finish a moderate fourth,
notwithstanding that his build suggests steeplechasing
under heavy weights rather than sprint racing,
# # •
Carnage, fietful and distinctly off-colour, was
beaten for the Leger by Patron, whereupon a number of
people discovered that Patron would always beat Carnage
from this time forward at even weights. There doesn’t
seem to be a long career in front of Carnage, who hasn't
the constitution of Carbine ; yet, if Mr. Wilson gets only
reasonable luck with his beautiful colt, he needn’t be
afraid of Patron, or anything else. It is not to be expected
that Carnage will pick up again sufficiently to win the
Champion, but if they think him well enough for a run
in the three-mile race he’ll make a much better display
than on Saturday. The true Carnage, galloping like a
machine, fairly beat Patron for speed last November, on
the very same day that Patron outpaced Loyalty, and no
amount of Improvement can reconstruct Mr. Purchase’s
horse on the stylish lines of the Derby winner.
• * *
After the Leger, it was noticed that Patron
picked away at the grass in the paddock, with the uncon-
cern of a kind horse that is trained to perfection. Portsea
appeared in equally happy condition, and Tarcoola,
returning from his race, or run, in the Essenden Stakes,
hadn’t turned the proverbial hair.
• * #
Charles Westbrook, turf commissioner, of 116 a
Pitt-street, Sydney, publishes at irregular intervals, just
before each important meeting, an interesting little book
called “ Australian Form at a Glance." The issue which
reached this oflice last week refers to Newmarket Handi-
cap and Australian Cup, and contains the record of every
horse entered—the races he has won or been placed in, the
time of each event, pedigrees, &c. Looking back at
Saturday’s Newmarket in the light of this publication it
is evident that any non idiot could have foretold Hova’s
win, seeing that in Nov. he did li mile in the shortest
time ever recorded for the distance in Australia, a fact
duly mentioned on page 3. And when The Bulletin
remembers that it didn’t look up this record in time to
back the animal, it hereby solemnly kicks itself 426 times.
* * *
Not one of the winners in the six races on the
last Caulfield Saturday meeting of the V.A.T.O. was Vic-
torian bred.
* # •
Harry Pearce, champion middle-weight wrestler
of Australasia, is at present somewhat pressed by
M’Kenny, his quondam pupil. A match in seven styles
was fixed for Feb. 15, at Hobart. After some hard work
and dissatisfaction on both sides it was postponed until
March 6.
• • •
Old Matthew Dawson is about to retire, and
has notified to Lord Rosebery, his only employer now,
that he will be unable to continue horse-training. The
veteran made a sad mess of the late Mr. James White’s
horses, says The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
though it would be wrong, perhaps, to blame the old man
for the failure of such cattle. But he never seemed quite
to understand how they should be treated, and ran them
usually when they were as fat as prime bullocks.
• • •
Harry Hutchens, the English ped., who visited
Australia years ago, is still record-breaking and at the top
of the tree. He is open to run any man in the world.
He is now about 40, and must be regarded as a physical
phenomenon. At his best public form he was yards
faster than any other man the world has seen. Yet, owing
jo “ gaffer " machinations, and his defiance of orthodox
training, the world cannot have seen his very best form.
• • *
Would N.S.W. Tattersall’s gain by excluding
the big men who use their own shops for betting ? The
latter would be able to run a club of their own, and the
racing clubs dare not exclude them from courses.
# # #
It must be now twenty years since Ned Hanlan
first showed championship form. It is within a few
months of eighteen years since he won the world’s cham-
pionship by defeating Courtney at Philadelphia Centen-
nial Regatta. Shrewd Judges think that, with a stern
trainer to rule him, as David Ward used to do in the days
when he beat Trickett, Hanlan is not, even now, out of
the running for the championship.
• # •
Walton, the great Yankee plunger, has just gone
down in the hotel business. The bookmaker always wins
at the finish. In ’BO-’Bl Walton’s luck was a by-word. He
won £93,000 in one season, and £15,000 over a single race.
Two years later he left England a defaulter. Then, like
most broken men, he tried hotel-keeping.
» « •
Redleap’s full brother is a trooper’s horse.
• * •
The legal mesh gradually closes round the
Sydney tote-spider, it having been decided that the street
tote man—who has hitherto evaded the law by doing
business outside headquarters—is a gaolable vagrant.
• • •
Question for Judge Foster (N.S.W.): If a man
who makes a handsome living at running a tote, but has
no other means of support, is a statutory vagrant, what
is a bookmaker who has no other means of support besides
laying the odds ?
• * •
Jockey Longford’s right leg was amputated last
week, despite the doctor’s attempts to save it since
Anniversary Day. That murderous post at Randwick
has now mutilated two skilful horsemen. Longford was
indeed a model cross-country man, and rode many a
gallant race tor that beau-ideal of a straight-going sports-
man, Dr. Oortis. A benefit race-meeting on his behalf is
mentioned.
• • •
Louis Blaine, one of the most prominent of
Melb. footballers, died last week of typhoid fever, aged 28.
Perhaps the best back man of the province, hs was an
amateur pure and simple; therefore his death is a real
loss to a sport which could so well afford to part with
many of its members.
• • •
Another big bicycle match on the tapis at Mel-
bourne—this time between Arthur Turner, the present
champion, and Scharp. The last big match was spectacu-
larly a fiasco. Every lap but the final was done at snail-
erawl— the mile taking a minute over record time.
Rushers of early doubles had a severe facer
over the failure of Carnage. He was backed with pretty
well everything in the Newmarket.
• • #
A match for =£2oo aside has been arranged
between H. Knight’s pacer, Edith, and A. Smidmore’s
pacer, Pieaninny, best two of three mile heats. On a
good course the writer thinks Knight’s little mare should
about win.
• • •
Corbett and Mitchell refused to shake hands
before they fought. Corbett allowed Mitchell to make a
show- in the first round, just, it would appear, to get
his measure. From the beginning of the second round
he punched Mitchell with terrific force, when and where
he liked.
* * *
On dit Tom Hales had a good win over his
mount, Hova, in the Newmarket Handicap. In conjunc-
tion with the owner he backed the colt for several
thousands. Hova’s name was accordingly punned on
after the race : “ A boil-Hova,” “ It’s all-Hova,” and so
on.
* • •
The owner of the hurdle-racer, The Broker, is
registered as “ Mr. T. Simpleton," He is reputed to be
as clever as they make ’em.
No preparations for the selection of the Vic-
Interprovincial Eight will be made until after the
Champion Race is over, but it is tolerably certain that the
crew will be chosen practically from the Mercantile, Yarra
Yarra and Albert Park clubs, assuming that the Ballarat
and Warrnambool clubs decline to send representatives,
as hitherto.
• * *
Three or four of Melb. senior football clubs have
called meetings of their creditors—or rather their mem-
bers—already, and all to consider their financial position.
And these are clubs which draw their thousands of
spectators every Saturday during winter months.
“Where does the money go?’’ The Association doesn’t
want to know.
« * *
What a time the children of Israel are having
in Sydney! Last Saturday six favourites won at Moore-
fleld right off the reel; and on the Saturday previous five
favourites out of six got home.
# * #
“Coolgardie” Browne, a giant in stature, was
no end of a don with “the gloves” in his younger days,
lie was ever of the most sanguine temperament, and has
told the writer of this par., times out of number, that it
was his destiny to some day strike it very rich.


BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
d
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
d
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Noiv ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
Mdm. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
Abso, “ THE BALLET GIRL,” Post Free, 1/6.
Tenders.
Newellton, North Queensland.
To Mine Owners, Smelters, Capi-
talists and others.
THE undersigned have received instructions
from the Directors of the SILVER
VALLEY SILVER MINING AND SMELT-
ING SYNDICATE to invite
Sealed Tenders
for the WHOLE OF THEIR PROPERTY AT
NEWELLTON, consisting of 4 Mineral Leases
(comprising 20 acres); Machine Area; Building
Sheds, Tools and Stores; also Machinery as
follows :
1 30-ton Water jacket furnace
1 No. 4| Bakers’ Blower
1 6-H.P. Vertical Engine
14-H.P. Vertical Engine
1 Stone breaker 9x5
1 Multitubular Boiler 14' x3'6" with connections
complete
1 Small Blakes’ Pump; Tanks, &c.
Further particulars of the whole and Stock
sheets of Stores, estimated at .£l2O, may be seen
on application to J. H. Rogers, Esq., Messrs.
Alfred Shaw, Limited, Townsville; or to John
Cairns, Herberton.
Tenders will be received up to 12 noon, Satur-
day, 7th April. The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
The machinery is all in perfect working order.
Attention is drawn to the fact that during the
last campaign of the furnace combined charges of
copper and silver ores resulted most successfully,
and large quantities of each are known to exist in
the syndicate’s properties and in the immediate
neighbourhood.
The inability of the Directors to call up further
capital to more fully develope the mines since the
late financial disasters is the sole reason for this
step being taken.
JOHN CAIRNS,
Auctioneer and Commission Agent,
Grace-st., Herberton, N.Q.
Business Announcements.
Bodalla Cheese.
C-A-TJTIOISr.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA.
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BOIDA.LLA,
Bears the Registered Brand of the Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent:
JOHN SHEARWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
Hair Will Go Grey.
GOOCH’S
ELEJIRIC WASH
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECT HIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only beltlß necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 2)5 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-at.).
I mito rtr I ■ «/’ // mna n II <i ii ■.
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Slock and made
to Order.
m
f.Vw
U>T£n '
sl;orbw(ncl
WATEKBtiKt.
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
GREAT EASTER
COMPETITIVE EXHIBITION.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
21st to 27th MARCH, 1891.
Easter Holiday Excursion Fares on the Railway.
The Entries indicate an altogether UNPARALLELED
collection of the USEFUL and the BEAUTIFUL,
420 HORSES,
Of which 129 are engaged in the various STEEPLE-
CHASING and JUMPING EVENTS.
25 of the most famous Trotters will display their powers.
A GREAT SHOW
OF
Poultry, Pigeons, Pigs,
FARM, DAIRY,
ORCHARD & GARDEN PRODUCTS,
In Wonderful Variety,
Which will strongly emphasize the rapid strides towards
PERFECTION in all the avenues of Production.
Manufactures, Artisans’ & Women's Work
Will be strongly in evidence ; whilst the show of Agri-
cultural Implements and Machinery will be the
grandest ever brought together on any Show Ground in
Australasia.
COUNTRY VISITORS are specially notified that the
whole of the fine grounds of the Society in Moore Park
will be
Brilliantly Illuminated by Electricity
every evening during the Exhibition, presenting a picture
of surpassing interest and beauty.
Australia’s famed Pyrotechnist (Prof. SCOTT) is
engaged to produce, on THREE EVENINGS, his
I grandest and newest displays ol FIREWORKS.
Admission -
J Day, Is.; Children, Gd.
( Evening, Is.; Children, Gd.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary,
Hunter Street, SYDKEY.
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE
Lessees .. Frank Thornton and Charles Arnold.
TO-NIGHT (at 8 o’clock sharp) TO-NIGHT
Mr. CHARLES ARNOLD.
as
“CAPTAIN FRITZ."
Supported by the Thornton-Arnold Company.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. _______
HER MAJESTY’S theatre
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
ANOTHER GREAT SUCCESS.
EYBEY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING 1
(by arrangement with W. J. Holloway, Esq.)
“THE SHAMROCK AND THE ROSE."
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Cast.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM theatre
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
FRIDAY EVENING (March 9th) FRIDAY EVENING
and for Positively Seven Nights Only,
“ JO.”
And for the remaining Five Nights of the Season,
“THE GRASSHOPPER.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L, Goodman.
Pleasure Grounds.
The national park,
PORT HACKING.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR VISITORS.
The Trustees desire to notify to the Public that
arrangements have been made for an Improved
Railway Service, and Additional Trains now run
daily to Loftus Junction and Waterfall, and on
Saturdays and Sundays to Loftus, all of which
places are upon the Park.
Vehicles will meet Visitors at Loftus Junction
daily, and at Loftus on Saturdays and Sundays. In
order to secure seats communication may be made
by letter or otherwise to Daniel Lobb, Loftus
Junction, Sutherland Post-office; or toTlios. Cook
and Son, 4 Hunter-street.
Visitors can obtain comfortable accommodation
at the Pavilion, Audley, National Park ; and all
meals can be arranged for upon application to
either G. S. A. Firmin, caterer, Audley Post-
office ; or to the Park Office, No. 3 O’Connell-
street. Telephone, 970.
Boats can be hired at reasonable rates, both on
the fresh and salt water rivers, on application to
Mr. Matson, lessee of the boats at Audley.
The Steam Launch can be hired upon application
to the Secretary to the Trust.
Visitors can also secure accommodation at
Warumbul, near the S.W. arm of Port Hack-
ing, on application at the Park Office, No. 3
O’Connell-street, Sydney. Telephone, 970.
Further information can be obtained from the
Illustrated Guide Book (which can be purchased
for 2s. 6d. at the Government Printing Office).
The telephone is also connected with Audley.
Telephone, 970.
3VT. MALONEY,
Secretary to the Trustees of the National Park,
3 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
KTotice of Closing.
Australian Building Society
(Registered according to Act of Parliament).
Proposed Issue of 59,401 Shares of £1 each .
Committee of Management:
C. W. MIDSON, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
JOHN T. ANNEAR, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
Committee in N.S.W.:
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P., Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., ex-Mayor of Kempsey,
ROBT. HAYES, Esq., Kempsey.
Bankers:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF SYDNEY (Limiteb).
Solicitors:
Messrs. THYNNE & M'OARTNEY, Brisbane.
First Prize, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643,
And 117 other Prizes, ranging in value from .£6724 to £2O, comprising some of the most fertile
maize-growing land on the Macleay River, the most prolific (see Government statistics) of any m the
colony, together with numerous Sydney and Brisbane suburban allotments, the whole of the pro-
perties having been independently valued by leading valuators.
NOTICE OF CLOSING.
The SHARE LIST will CLOSE on the LAST DAY of this I\TONTH, March 31.
KW Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest enquiry as to the value of properties.
Application for Shares in the Society must be made to the Secretary, BARRpN L. BARNETT,
204 Queen-street, Brisbane; or “Secretary,” care of 0. SMITH No. 24 Imperial Arcade, Sydney;
or “Secretary,” care of J. RICHARDSON, W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom any further particu-
lars may be obtained.
ciotnea
with. Air.
99
Cellular Undtrclothing
For LADIES.
The Only Natural Clothing for the Human Body.
A SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS.
Cellular Night dresses, trimmed with Real Lace.
Prices from 10/- to 30/-
Combinations, Corsets, Petticoats, Bodices, Vests,
Drawers, Stockings, etc.
Cellular Fabric by Ibc Yard or Piece,
Patterns, Pamphlet and all particulars,
Cellular Clothing II
205 & 307 George-st., Sydney.
(Nearly opposite Hunter Street.)
m m
t'.A
WMmi
'iT- ,
m&.
■ ;
i>4
I
$
m
mm
4 && - *
Prospectus.
Abridged Prospectus
—ol’
THE KANGAROO
GOLD-HIKING COMPANY,
Cue f West Australia .
(To be Registered under the No Liability Act.)
CAPITAL:
£30,000, in 60,000 Shares of 10s. each.
Of which 25,000 Shares are available for subscrip-
tion at 2/6 on application and 2/6 on allotment.
The whole of the proceeds (.£6250), less cost of
flotation, which is guaranteed not to exceed
.£250, will be placed to the credit of the
Company.
Provisional Directors :
H, B. BLACK, Merchant, 483 Collins Street,
O. J. PEN FOLD, Melbourne Club,
S. G. RUSSELL (Messrs. Russell & Wormald),
Market Street.
R. S. BLACK, Zeehan, Tasmania.
T. H. DICKEN, Cue, West Australia.
Bankers:
The UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
Secretary [pro. tern.):
0. H. TUCKETT, Queen Street.
Broker:
A. TOLHURST, 58 Queen Street.
THIS Company is being formed to acquire and
mine the Kangaroo Gold Mine at Cue, We®**
Australia. A contract has also been entered into
by the applicant to transfer to the Company a
6-acre lease adjoining, known as the “Kangaroo
West,” on his application being granted in the
usual course.
The full consideration to the Vendors willbe
35,000 shares paid-up to ss. only, thus placing
all shares on an equal footing.
A large sum has been spent by the Proprietors
in thoroughly prospecting the property, with
highly satisfactory results. The amount of work-
ing capital now placed to the credit, viz., <£6ooo
nett, will put the company in a very strong posi-
tion, and enable them to thoroughly develope and
equip the mine.
All the shares in this company have been applied
for.
Medical.
before ]
taring.
NERVITA
CURES IN 21 DAYS
DEBILITY.
I In all stages, Despondency, I
Bashfulness, &c., &c., how-
I ever caused, never returns. I—
THOUSANDS have proved that the only REMEDY
to effect a quick permanent cure is NERVITA, the
21 days’ cute, forwarded by mail in plain package to
any address. Price, 21 SHILLINGS. Why pay more ?
NERVITA REMEDY AGENCY, Box 399, G.P.O.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
AFTER
21 DAYS.
VITALITAS.
The Great French Nerve & Brain Restorative
A specific for Nervousness, Debility, Weakness, etc.
It quickly and permanently restores the enfeebled con-
dition, resulting from excesses, worry and overwork, and
can be relied upon as a genuine aphrodisiac, prepared
in the form of Pills. PRICE, 3s. per Rox, post free.
National Drug Co., ItussM-st., Melbourne.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of ( testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state." ,
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98,O’Connell St., N.Adelaide, S.Australia
H. G. ROOT,
26, Endsleigh Gardens. Euston Road, London.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 6,1894.
r I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
_L SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14.
Bridge, Murruinbidgee River, at Tharwa
Erection of Offices, Naval Station, Garden Island
Bridge, Back Creek, at Marsden, road Marsden
to Lake Cowal
Bridge, Bokhara Creek, at Speechley’s.
Construction of Hand-geared Punt for Clarence
River, at Tabulam
Pipe-laying, Contract No. 4a, Nowra Water
Supply
Additions, Post and Telegraph Office, Parkes
Erection of Police Quarters, South Grafton
Erection of Additional Covering to Platform at
Cootarnundra Railway Station (fresh tenders)
ANNUAL CONTRATS, 1894.
Fresh Tenders.
(.£lO deposit account each contract to accompany
tenders.)
Supply of Drain Pipes—
Metropolitan and Illawarra Districts
Northern District
Western District
Southern District
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28.
Bridge, North’s Crossing, near Katooinba.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Joseph Edward Evans, who was in the
service of Mr. Russell Barton, of Five Dock, many
Sears ago, is requested to communicate with Mr.
I. J. Macnamara, solicitor, corner of George and
Jamieson streets, Sydney.
“ Dodo,” as a character, is merely “ Jessie
Enderty ” dressed up in present-year fashions.
The prototype of this whole class of heroine, and
infinitely the best, as the moon outshines the
candle, is Beatrix Esmond. But this style of
novel will always be popular as long as there is a
woman to read the book and imagine herself the
brilliant and heartless flirt depicted therein, who
walks on men’s hearts as carelessly as if they were
roses and lilies in the pattern of the Brussels
carpet. In real life she probably has hard work
to keep the wavering affections of her own par-
ticular 355. a week Johnnie up to engagement-
pitch with frequent gifts of crewel-work slippers
and crochet ties, in order that she may realise her
life’s dream of a suburban villa with Johnnie in
the front garden in the evening hunting for snails
with a dark lantern.


M isical Instruments.
XMAS BOXES!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin."
Given Away I! (only 30,000)
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and you will receive
In return a 4s. Sons. Waltz or Plano Piece,
F It E E !
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
ICeinemhcr this! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY—
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL, INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
Guns & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
SOL. per week ea
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK I
At 2d. and 3d. each —Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Hd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
tar Write for Lists, and beware of WORTHLESS
imitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, &c.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
tew Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers. TSI
TT ENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
P*- and PIANO. “Martha,” "Robert le Liable,”
"Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” "William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maachera,” "II Trova-
tore,” "Lea Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., '
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
SKINS ON FIRE
With Agonizing Eczemas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, perma-
nently, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cuticura Remedies are the great-
est skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and may be used in the treatment of
every humor, from the simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
skin, and scalp.
CUTICURA
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp
of crusts and scales, speedily soothes and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Beautifier, is indispensa-
ble in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and poi-
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Reme-
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to scrofula.
a®-" How to Cure Diseases of the Skin, Scalp, and Blood," 64 pages, 300 Diseases, *1
Illustrations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c. ; Cuticura Soap, 25c. •
Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S. A .
V.
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless nails, are pre-
vented and cured by Cutlcura Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers',
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive bf toilet and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soafl, and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the 'cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. IBILIDIRIIDGKHI & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. Tt will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the yearsyou’velived. Write. Prof. HER-
MANN, French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELB.
QUEENSLAND SADDLERY,
/V LL in want of the above should call on or send for
price-list to
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
supplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
iEAF ness
AMD HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and Perfect Hearing Restored.
Uomfortable to wear and invisible. Illustrated
book of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps.
A. M. NAST, 49 ELIZABETH ST., MELB.
The Moat Delicious Sauce in the "World.
HEcit
(KSHIRt
U BA
m.-
Silly Delicious
WITH
CHOPS,
STEAKS,
FISH, &c.
MAKES COLD MEAT A LUXURY.
BLENDS ADMIRABLY WITH ALL GRAVIES.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
Sold Everywhere.
Wholesale: TI HOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
■okProprietor,: COODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
Prospectus.
MONSTER
FREEHOLD PROPERTY
Distribution.
£58,401 Worth of Freehold Property,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue :
59,401 Shares of £1 Each.
NO LIABILITY.
Committee of Management, Queensland;
C. VV. MIDSON, Esq., M.L.A.
J. T. ANNEAR, Esq., M.L.A.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P.
Committee in N.S.W.:
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P., Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., Ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
ROB!. HAYES, Esq., Kempsey.
Bankers:
The Commercial Bank of Si dney.
Solicitors:
Messrs. THYNNE & McCARTNEY.
118 PRIZES as under:
Ist Prize, 1606 acres, valued at £11,64.1;
2nd prize, £6724; 3rd prize, £6OOO ; 4th prize, £5813;
f th „P"® e ’ £3OOO ; 6th prize, £27208 prizes from £2560
t 0 u .V 13 P rlzea from £BB5 to £5O, 23 prizes of £45
each ; 49 prizes of £26 10s. each ; 19 prizes of £2O each.
List Closes 31st March »
All moneys received are banked to credit of the Com-
mittee without deduction.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
t 0 th , e value of Properties. Application for
t” Dinwnillm be made to the Secretary, BARRON
L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street, BRISBANE; or
care of °- SMITH. No. 24 Imperial Arcade.
SYDNEY; or Secretary,” care of J. RICHARDSON,
\V. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom all particulars may be
obtained. Enclose two addressed envelopes with un-
attached stamps ; add exchange if cheque sent. Register
letters.
Business Announcements.
m \
LADIES’
HATS
MADE
TO
ORDER.
ANY WIDTH
BRIM.
ď
GEKTT.’S T
With Puggaree, 2/-extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHAS. ANDERSON,
TAILOR,
30 & 32 Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
Best Materials. Perfect Fitting.
MODERATE PRICES.
Patterns, Prices & Measurement Forms
ON APPLICATION.
đ
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair.
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
ANTMIIIE Oil-. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 it 083 Crorgc Street, Sydney.
NOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Barry Pain ; * ‘ He could make a platitude
■nto an epigram by his judicious silence.”
“ The Labour movement cannot rest
merely on the basis of a struggle for wages.”—
Tom Mann.
Chinamen are being steadily deported
from the States for failing to register under the
Geary Exclusion Act.
In the Gospel according to Melb. Punch,
the price of Judas’ treachery is given at 40 shekels.
Punch also speaks of “ David in the lion’s den.”
A big Vic. jeweller, convicted of altering
the hall-mark on jewellery from 9 carat to 18 carat
—a most profitable forgery—was let off with a fine.
You can’t even morally flog people in pot hats. If
a man with patched pants had been caught steal-
ing a door-knocker to sell for scrap-iron he’d have
been sent straight to gaol. The law was never
meant to apply to Broadcloth and Co.—because it
made and administered by that extensive firm,
A M.L. clergyman lately discovered that
the rival sin-shifter was addicted to calling
on a lady in the small hours of the morning, and
crawling through a window—presumably for pur-
poses which wouldn’t bear inspection. He
announced the painful details, being urged thereto
by a strong sense of duty, and an admiring Social
Gimlet brigade straightway got up a subscription
for his benefit. They collected ,£5O in all, but
the presentation never came off. The leading
gimleter, who acted as treasurer, announced, with
tears, that the subscription had unfortunately gob
mixed up with his private overdraft, but he hoped
to be able to settle up in a few years. Then the
gimlet function broke up in disorder.
Another letter from Paraguay, published
In Peak Downs (Q ) Telegram
I have been over the greater part of the settlement, and
f like the country well. It consists of beautiful plains,
well grassed and watered, and even the scrub lands are
rich and good for agricultural purposes. We have about
20 acres under crop already, and looking well. A town
has been formed on the settlement, and from it the view
is uninterrupted for four miles in every direction. lam
well pleased with the land, and am sure that we will
succeed and make it a great success. About 40 buildings
are already erected. I am working in the stock depart-
ment, and will he going away shortly for a mob of cattle,
a distance of 1000 miles from here. . . . lam almost
certain Australia will never see me again. The Para-
guayan Government is far better than that of Australia.
Any man with £l5O in Paraguay for a start would never
want, for the land is free—no rent to pay at all. They do
not sell land like the Australian Governm°nt; a man can
setlle down anyplace he wishes. Thousands of acres of
oranges grow wild in the bush, and they are the best
qualify I ever tasted. Had I known Paraguay was such %
good country I would have been over here 10 or 12 years
ago. The country, though, is no good for a wage-earner.
The natives are about 500 years behind Australia in
every respect. There is not a plough in Paraguay; they
do all the farming with spadfS and hoes. They yoke
the bullocks to their loads by the horns, and have no hows
Or chains. Their drays have wooden wheels with no tires,
and wooden axles, and carry from lOcwt. to 15cwt."


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
TyE BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
’ ’ njaintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
DEPARTMENTS !
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ribbons, Laces, Ladies' Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing Drapery, Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro-plate, Men’s Ready-made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
fW” LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept)
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited,
We issue a little book on “ Shopping by Post,” which is
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address vie >rly written.
Send your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
and will be as well served as if in town to select.
Finney, Isles & Co.,
BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, Q.,
And 61 Basinghall Street, London, 8.0.
FOO3I
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OR
milk: food.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED,
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
’S
m
&
m
M
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
, The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s Tills are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. c. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Every Dose Effective.
KIP” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Pills —is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER-SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED OH.LDREN’S SWEET)
Hk
\k
Lancet.
A
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
Clothed witlx A-ir.
Cellular Aertcoc Underclothing,
For Comfort during Hot Weather.
A POSITIVE SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS.
Recommended by Medical Faculty.
Just Opened:
Ecru. Lisle Singlets, 6s.
Extra fine and light for tropical wear. Specially re-
commended as being easily washed, unshrinkable and
very durable.
Extra LIGHT MAKE in HAT and DUKSS SHIRTS,
with best Linen Fronts and Cuffs and Lisle Thread Bodies.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Caps, Pyjamas,
Braces, Belts and Hosiery.
Pamphlet, Price Lists and full particulars,
BRAHAM Si MUTCH, 75 King Street, Sydney.
Nervousness Cured I
SEND to HERR RASSMUSSEN, 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or any of his Inter-
colonial Branches, for his Free and Useful Pamphlet, entitled
“A TliousandL Reasons”
Why Sufferers should immediately take
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alf aline Vitality Pills!
Which are Registered and Purely Herbal. Cured many Thousands.
A GUARANTEED CURE for the most obstinate NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF MEMORY,
DESPONDENCY, MELANCHOLIA, NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA and IRRITABILITY, WEAK-
NESS, and all Affections peculiar to the NERVES, SPINE and BRAIN. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/-and 12/-, posted.
THOTISAUD TESTIMOIsTIALS I
Blood Diseases Cured!
ALFALINE LOCK CURE PILLS.
Registered. Purely Herbal. Cured over 100,000.
A GUARANTEED CURE for all kinds of BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES
FROM ANY CAUSE, OLD-STANDING BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES, PIMPLEb,
ECZEMA, and other unhappy and unpleasant symptoms of the Skin and Blood. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6 ; special powerful course, 43/6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies."—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Telb
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S. A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
i Courier, Q.
WHAT IS BETTER THAN
£1,000,000 ?
HEALTH!
Yon are always Poor
without Health, even if you are
Wealthy.
-
m
How did over 100,000 Sufferers
get Restored to
HEALTH ?
By taking
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press is unanimous in praising up Herr
Itassrnussen and his wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies,
and his name has become a much-cherished and lasting
household word in every city, village and camp in the colonies.
The tvonderful success of Herr Rassmussen, and the ever-
increasing patronage extended to his celebrated Herbal
Remedies by all classes of society, is bona-fide evidence that
they are effective and genuine.
HERR RASSMUSSBN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GrE ORGrE STREET, SYDNEY.
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered
ALFALINE REMEDIES!
Which have CURED OYER One Hundred Thousand Sufferers for Blood and Nerve Diseases
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of the Academic Pansienne des Inventeurs, France.
Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.tJ.J.F.G.
Honourably Mentioned in “Centennial History of New South Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney, Bronze Medal, Melbourne, for his Herbal Remedies.
AutHor of “ The 3XTa.tixi.ral Doctor.”
HERBAL REMEDIES:
Alfalinc Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Ordinary course, 23/6, posted ; Special Powerful
Double Course, 43, 6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23, 6.
Alfalinc Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/6.
Alialine Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to eradicate Dandruff, Produces quickly
luxuriant hair. 6/-, posted.
Alfalinc Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Complexion. 6/-, posted.
Alfalinc Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, posted, 1/6.
Alfalinc Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1/6.
Alfalinc Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes,
posted, 1,6 and 2,6.
Alfaline lock Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Blood. Purely Herbal.
Ordinary course, posted, 23/6; special powerful course,
43/6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powders.
Excellent for internal use. Posted, 3/- and 6/-
Alfalinc External Pile Powders.
Cure both Blind and Bleeding Piles. Posted, 3/- & 6/»
Alfaline Leucorrhcea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Male and Female Syringes, Suspenders, and
other Specialties, kept in stock.
« The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
IMPORTANT.— Make Cheques and Post Office Orders Payable to Hans Rassmussen,
whether rou send to his Head Office, or to any of his Branches. Register Letters containing Money. All
Remedies'sent unobserved, packed in plain cover. All Correspondence strictly Confidential.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Chief Laboratory and Head Depot for all the Colonies:
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT : 150 Bourkb Strkkt, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT : 160 Queen Street, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT : 154 Rundlk Street, ADELAIDE.
NEW ZEALAND HEAD DEPOT
.91 Lambtor Quay, WELLINGTON.
“Woman is the only problem not given
man to solve.”
“ Carpenters do cabinet-making, in jour-
nalism.”— Depkw.
Clovis Hugues, French deputy :
The bomb of the 9th December was thrown by Vaillant,
but the crimes of the bourgeoisie charged it. The nitro-
glycerine which it contained was accumulated human
misery, all the sufferings of the proletariat, of the people
eternally exploited, eternally damned.
Herbert Spencer is a little bald-headed
man with pink cheeks and curly grey side
whiskers. He is as precise as an old maid, and
dresses in the oddest of styles. He always carries
an umbrella, with which he gesticulates while he
cracks mild jokes. He is the greatest philosopher
of his generation, and his chief delight is comic
opera.
Agent - General Clarke has tripped up
Henniker Heaton for saying publicly, at Canter-
bury, that in Victoria “ a man could get a divorce
if his wife got drunk three times,” The Heaton
was evidently thinking of the three years’ deser-
tion clause, or the law forfeiting the license of a
publican after three convictions. Henniker should
stick to postal affairs and let divorce-law alone.
Dear Bulletin, — A “ mirage” as yet un-
touched by any of your correspondents. In this
part of the country (Lower Lachlan), on almost
any clear, sharp morning, half-an-hour before,
and for the same time after, sunrise, you can see
“clumps” of timber any distance from 10 to 25
miles; they are brought quite close by the mirage.
I have often seen—in the early morning—home-
stead leases that were 15 or 20 miles away, but
as soon as one felt the heat of the sun, say, 30 or
40 min. after rising, they would disappear.
Clumps of timber located in hollows would
rise up and appear quite close, but at mid-day
one might look in vain for any sign of them. I
have seen Tarwong woolshed, 25 miles away, on a
clear frosty July morning.—Yours, F.W.J.,
Booligal, Jan. 29.
Newcastle papers report that R. A. Price,
a candidate for N.S.W. Parliament, addressed a
meeting of electors at Miller’s Forest recently :
If elected to Parliament he would not be content with
being an ordinary member, but hoped to return to his
constituents as the holder of a Ministerial portfolio. At
the termination of his address Mr. Price moved a vote of
confidence in himself, and declared it carried.
Which recalls to the present writer a meeting he
once reported held by a Q. candidate. It was a
blusterous, stormy night, and only three persons
were present, besides the candidate and reporters,
A moved, seconded by B, that C take the chair.
Carried unanimously. The candidate spoke for
an hour and a-half, and B moved, seconded by A,
that he was a .fit and proper person, &o. The
resolution was put to the meeting by C, who
asked was there any amendment. There was not
—carried unanimously. Then the candidate
moved a vote of thanks to the chairman O, which
A and B carried by acclamation, and the meeting
closed.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Premier Patterson, we are told by Melb. Herald,
recently said : “ I am not a religious man, but I never go
to bed at night without a prayer for the repose of the soul
of Captain Cook ” :
From house to house an angel bright
Goes flitting round the livelong night
Unseen of mortals, that he may
Report the names of those who pray
Before they lay them down to rest
And sleep the slumber of the blest.
The angel sadly shakes his head
At folks who tumble into bed,
Nor stop to make, in muffled tones,
Petition on their marrow-bcnes.
And in his book he noteth down
A “nought ” against the name of Brown,
Or Jones, just as the case may be,
And groans for their impiety.
The angel finds upon the whole
That Melbourne saves a lot of soul.
Its leading citizens are prone
To grovel on the marrow-bone,
And beg forgiveness for the things
That scandalise the king of kings.
The angel flits from room to room
And finds ’em busy dodging doom ;
Small crosses in his volume go,
X—Another prayer to so-and-so.
But oh 1 it made the spirit sneeze
When first, upon his hardy knees,
He noticed Patterson. Surprise
Beamed softly from the spirit’s eyes.
He pricked the kneeler with his pen,
And said, “Are you religious, then ?
Are you among the careful few
Who keep their future state in view ? ”
“ Ah ! no—alas ! ” the sinner cried
Unto the vision by his side —
“ I fear me much I never can
Set up as a religious man ;
I merely seek the people’s good—■'
For them I ask for daily food ;
And ne’er the thought occurs to me
Of getting saved myself, you see.
But write me in your little book
As one who prays for Captain Cook.”
A tear-drop dimmed the angel’s eye;
He spread his snowy wings to fly.
And now each time the angel sees
That patriot upon his knees,
He says, when ticking off his book —
“ It’s rather rough on Captain Cook.”
“Bad eggs will be a rarity in Melbourne
when the egg-freezing industry gets fairly under
way.” It will be a great time for Victoria when
the country starts freezing its political “bad
eggs.”
The successful removal of Piles of the
most stubborn description is being effected by
Sharp’s new “Cannalin” treatment, large quan-
tities of which are being forwarded to sufferers
throughout the colonies. It is obtainable, with
advice, from 257 George-street, Sydney.
At Coolgardie, policemen drive the blacks
out of the township every evening, and it is one of
the regulations of the field that they must not
appear in town absolutely unclothed.


Miscellaneous.
A FREE GIFT !
Notice to our \ountry and Inter-
colonial Customers.
]\TO matter if you live in town, country, or another
colony, if you have a photo, of yourself or any dear
friend, and you want an Enlargement of it, send it to us.
We will make you from it a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
ENLARGEMENT on the Best Ground Opal, size 12 x 10
inches, which, when properly mounted, is suitable for a
frame 21 x 18 inches, and pack it carefully, and pay for
it through the new parcels post right to your very
door, for 10s. 6d. The usual price for this same
thing in Sydney is Three Pounds Three Shillings
(fi3 35.). We are doing this as an advertisement,
and while it lasts it is a chance of a lifetime. Under-
stand, there is no condition of framing or otherwise. All
you have to do is to send your Photo, and your Name and
Address, and your 10s. 6d., and you will quickly get your
picture, which we guarantee will charm you.
Now, every man who has looked through a camera, no
matter if he be the greenest amateur, knows perfectly
well that this cannot be done for the money in the ordi-
nary way of business. Query—Then why do it? Answer
—We want to put out a limited number of our enlarge-
ments each year as an advertisement.
Or if you have a Photo., and you want more of it, send
it to us; we will copy it and send you Six Enamelled
Cabinets and your own Photo, for 6s. 6d., or 12 ditto ditto
for 10s., post paid.
When in Sydney, if you will sit to us for one dozen of
our Highly-finished Cabinet Portraits at 10s. per dozen,
we will present you with a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
PORTRAIT ENLARGEMENT of yourself on the BEST
GROUND OPAL, FREE OF CHARGE.
A GUARANTEE-
It is well known in the Photographic Profession through
the whole of Australesia, and by every man in Sydney,
that we have the Largest Photographic Studios, Offices,
and Works, and employ by far the largest number of
artists and workmen in the Southern Hemisphere. This,
we think, is a suffieient guarantee that we wdl send out
none but the very best production possible in each case, as
we are thoroughly alive to the fact that each Picture
speaks for or against us. We cannot afford to be careless.
CAUTION.—As we have no agents in the country, don’t
give your Photo to anyone, but send it straight to us ; it
is safe then. Note the Address:—THE CROWN
BROMIDE ENLARGEMENT COY., at
THE CROWN STUDIOS,
Corner George <& Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
LIGHT. STRONG. CHEAP.
SUNBEAM” O.K
Price, with Cushion Tyres ... *l4 0 0
„ with Pneumatic Tyres ... IT 10 0
Complete, with detachable brake, mud-guards and foot-
rests ; ball-bearings to all parts, including head and
pedals; unbreakable spokes; finished in best black enamel,
with parts nickel-plated; strong hammock saddle, spanner,
oil-can and tool-bag.
Further particulars (post free) from
EDGE & EDGE,
248 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
INDIGESTION
And Liver Complaint
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mr. T. J. CLUNE,
of Walkerville, S. Australia, writes:
“Six years ago, I had an attack of Indiges-
tion and Liver Complaint that lasted for
weeks; I was unable to do any hard work,
had no appetite, food distressed me, and I
suffered much from headache. My skin was
sallow and sleep did not refresh me. 1 tried
several remedies and consulted a doctor,
without obtaining any relief; finally, one of
my customers recommended Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla; it helped me from the first,—in fact,
after taking six bottles I was completely
cured, and could eat anything and sleep
like a child.” - *
CURED BY USING
Ayer’s e y Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair
Made by Dr. J.C.Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass..U.S.A,
NEWMAN’S ATELIER
FOR
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
314 GEORGE - STEEET,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street, /
is now in
ACTIVE Oi RATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
- -
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
J. EC übert 3ST ewma, ix
(Late of Oxford-street), Pr jI’UIKTOU.
Fire Fisks at Lowest Fates.
Head Offices :
—9s—
Street, r -''
Sydney, y
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITA!*
<£150,000
j'
A'
A/
#1
Directors;
Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
(.Chairman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.C.,
JAMES P. QARYAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
y SPECIAL FEATURES.
■ It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHAT IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art ol feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got tor sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you f Will you do your business at
H ORDERKT’S ?
ANTHONY lIOKDUCVS 9
VW- SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY ISI IS*
JlVi Jtl Kli\ llllhd at A NTIIONI HORDKRN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you Heed in town.
ONLY ADDRESS of thk UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS :
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
H A YM ARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
*» (CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
ABO
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the lest of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “Cyclopaedia o
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII,
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Pro. Wm. O.
Leubk.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Yol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.”—Prof. Sknatob.
On SOROFULOSIS.-VOI. XVI.
“ What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Biuch-Hiksohfkld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains. Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats. Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s, College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes: —
It is lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
'JI Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK.
d
0
-
NOURISHING.
DELItIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
I MALTED MILK is made from the
XU. richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
XU no milk is to be added ; it is quick I)
and readily prepared for instant use
( by dissolving in water.
\ MALTED MILK is the best food for In
► Xrl fants. “ The composition of Malted '
► Milk resembles that of human milk.' '
( — Lancet, April 4, 1891.
* MALTED MILK, as a food for In- 1
I 1»X valids, surpasses all other light diets. !
1 Being most nutritious and easily
1 assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, Afiril 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep Indefinitely in any cll/«ite.
Of all Chemists ami Hruggists.
Wholesale Agents:—
KLLIOTT BROS., Ltd.. SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG UO„ Ltd., SYDNEY.
Mulled Milk Co., 39, t»uow Kill, Loudou, K.C.
We are requested to say that it is quite
untrue that the Melb. lady by whom Mr. Stand-
ish-Sievier was divorced has re-married. We
have to express our regret that a statement to the
contrary should have appeared.
The Willis organ :
The camelhas come to stay, but the Afghan must go,
and the white man learn to navigate the ship of the
desert.
Which looks as if Willis means to stand for some
constituency other than Bourke.
“ Ugh, you old cat !” “ Nasty old maid !’’
“I’ll put my ten commandments in your face!”
Culled from the police reports? Not at all;
merely the endearing epithets of the Q. Woman’s
franchise Association in public meeting at Bris-
bane, when the men were put out and lovely
woman had a high old time on her own account.
Whew, hair flew !
The N.S.W. Soudan warriors held their
annual memorial dinner on 3rd March. “ Although
barely a decade has passed since the expedition
started, the unerring fire of Time has already made
yawning breaches in the ranks of those who would
otherwise have borne their share in the celebra-
tion. ’’ It is bound to come in the end : the
Soudan donkey will be the only guest at the last
Spudan memorial dinner. The fittest always sur-
vives.
In wild suburban music-halls amateur
minstrels still proclaim that “Johnson’s Dead !”
But he isn’t, and his front name is George,
and he spells his back name with a “t,” and he
is now in Sydney representing Jas. Watson & Co.,
of Dundee, the Glenlivet distillers, whose sole
agents in N.S.W. are Allt and Co., Ld., brewers
and wine and spirit merchants. To meet Johnston
is joy, to meet him with a drop of Glenlivet is
ecstasy. By all means meet him.
The death of the Earl of Warwick has
made the Prince of Wales’ charming friend, Lady
Brooke, a Countess. She was the only woman of
whom Albert Edward has been known to evince
jealousy, and is known as “thebabbling Brooke,”
for when the Prince violated his promised word
and told Lady Brooke about the Tranby
Croft baccarat affair, she promptly gave it to
the world. “It may be interesting to add,”
says a well-known London writer, “ that many
people suppose the whole affair was a conspiracy
got up by certain ladies against Sir William
Gordon-Cumrning, whose offence may be inferred
from the nickname by which he was known in
London society— - William Tell.’ ”
Coolgardie is gaolless, and when an old
lady-drunk lately got 14 days, the puzzle was
where to stow her. At last they decided to keep
her in the trooper’s tent by day, and let her out on
parole to her husband at night. For four days
the old girl surrendered regularly at breakfast-
time. Then the trooper jibbed. He had to cook
and fetch water for the aged captive, for she was
a prisoner and wouldn’t do a hand’s turn. The
bench ordered her release. But she wouldn’t go.
She had been sentenced to 14 days, and 14 days
she meant to have, or else sue Govt, for
balance of rations due. When the mail left a
compromise was pending : a week’s tucker for
herself, and a week’s free water for the old man.
Messrs. George Robertson & Co. issue a
handy volume entitled “ Companies Work and
Mining Law in N.S.W. and Victoria,” bv Alfred
de Lissa, barrister. This book contains a digest
of the many and complicated laws re all manner
of companies in the two provinces. The informa-
tion is translated out of incomprehensible lawyerese
into plain and readily understandable English,
and the gibberish of the ordinary Act has been
carefully avoided. Also, the writer has wisely
contented himself with a clear statement of the
law as it stands, without going into elaborate legal
details to show how it came to stand that way
through the operation of several dozen Acts and
amending Acts. To anyone interested in com-
pany or mining law this work will be invaluable.
The absurdity of requiring a reference
from a shearer is seen when we remember the
practice pursued in other callings. The average
shearer spends about a month out of the twelve
engaged in that occupation, and is paid by rasults.
His great object is to make as much money as
possible in that brief period, and consequently he
is not liable to the same slips as the man employed
on wages all the year round. Should his work
bo slovenly the squatter has the remedy popularly
known as “the sack.” Take an analogous case.
The overseer of the composing-room in a printing-
office may like a reference for steadiness and
sobriety before engaging a frame (permanent)
hand, but would be laughed at on demanding one
from a “grass” hand—paid by “ piece-work.”
Rue Australia seems to have taken another
step on the road to chaos. At latest, the Para-
guayan police had been called in to keep order
among sundry contending factions. This appeal
to the arm of bloated authority—this calling in of
the forces of “lawnorder ” —would seem to imply
that the blessed doctrine of brotherly love has
been abandoned. Fights, it is reported, are of
daily occurrence, and the parties now stick
up abusive placards concerning each other
and make themselves otherwise disagreeable.
The strong arm of the Paraguayan “cop’’may
prevent bloodshed, but there isn’t much difference
between being kept in order by a Paraguayan
policeman in the new way and being bossed by a
Queensland trooper in the old one. Moreover;, the
Rue Australians could at least have protested
against the Q. trooper at the ballot-box, but until
they get the run of local politics they don’t know
how to protest against the Paraguayan one, so
they seem to have a trifle less liberty now than
they had before.
In G. Manville Fenn’s much-belauded new
book, “Bunyip Land, or Among the Blackfellows
of New Guinea,” there are over 300 pages of solid
idiocy which, accepted by English people as “in-
teresting,” would drive Australian readers into
frenzy. An utterly impossible Australian black-
fellow, whose constant iteration of “Hi, wup-
wup-wup” (round which unknown exclamation
the book is built, as it were), is the principal
figure in the grotesque absurdities that are spoken
of by the London press as a “ vivid and exciting
picture of life and adventure among the wild men
of New Guinea.”
If The Bulletin were a comic paper, it
might reprint the whole of the address delivered
last week by the President of the Conference of
the Wesleyan Methodists of Victoria and Tas-
mania. _ As a display of pious gall, the utterance,
which is alive with the worms of unconscious
humour, is probably unrivalled. The president’s
snuffling remarks on the distinction between a
harmless earthquake at Christian Bendigo, and
the furious^ earthquake in Persia, whereby 12,000
pagans perished, deserve more than passing refer-
ence. But a few snips from the first yard of this
address will show the general quality of the jokes.
Concerning the “roll” of Wesleyan Methodism,
this voluble old shepherd said :—“ The apostles
and first preachers of Christianity have had no
successors, and the men on this roll do not represent
them. Victoria and Tasmania are, and have been,
bestarred with beauteous lights of differing glory.
Some of these are now fixed in heavenly orbits for
ever. We have had generals like Draper; coun-
sellors like Binks; statesmen like Symons;
geniuses like Knight; princely preachers like
; sons of fire and flame like (other people);
editors like Fitohett, &c., and others whose names
are in the book of life.” The full list of nonentities
reeled off by this fatuous parson is not given here.
They are all utterly unknown outside Little
Bethel, with the exception of Fitohett, who won
immortality by editing—on behalf of James Bal-
four, James Munro, Matthew Davies, &c. —the
late lamented Melbourne D.T. Then, having
dazzled the blessed conference with his collection
of beauteous lights, he put this plain question to
the meeting: “Are we not Christ’s own gifts to
men, and specially designed for the perfecting of
the saints ?” The conference didn’t cheer or make
any sort of demonstration. It just carried the
resolution inwardly, so to speak.
Half-a-pound of cobweb will go round the
world.
Who won the battle of Waterloo? Bill
Adams, of_ course. It is said that he did it
through using the celebrated brand of “Fry’s
Malted Cocoa,’’ which considerably strengthened
his army.
Are you a politician, wanting to read all
the abuse of the press ? Are you an artist, or an
author, desiring to see what is thought of your
new painting, your last book? Or a student,
collecting information on a particular subject?
Or an average person, wanting to know all about
this, that, or the other topic of interest? The
Central Press Agency, in conjunction with
Romeike and Curtice, of London, has introduced
to Sydney the valuable system of press-cuttings,
and will clip and classify you extracts from all the
world’s newspapers at a rate so low that individual
time and trouble is saved a hundred times over.
The plan has established itself in London and
other old-world cities as one of the most valuable
means of securing information, and its uses have
only to be known to be appreciated in Australia.
Subscriptions to 48 Oastlereagh-st., or Victoria
Chambers, Sydney.
A HOLY CONSTELLATION.
Come gather round the earnest bard,
Who sings a simple story
Of earth and heaven brightly starred
With lights of human glory—
With orbs of varied shape and size
That greatly shine, or lessly,
Upon a world which sanctifies
The dreadful name of Wesley.
A beauteous star is Brother Binks,
As viewed by snufflebusters:
He never jokes, or smokes, or drinks
Like common, worldly lusters.
Yon have not heard of Binks, perhaps,
Who gleams from heights so dizzy—
Then bow your heads and doff your caps,
And say, “ O Lord, who it he?”
You reck not of the princely Bath 1
The Church is his vocation :
He gives a choice 'twixt red-hot wrath
And Wesleyan salvation.
He’s not a son of fire and flams
Much given to romancing,
But yet he dammeth, all the same,
The sinner fond of dancing.
The genius of Brother Knight
Has never set you musing.
He, doubtless, is an author bright
Whose works escape perusing—
Don’t buy his book, and call it “ rot,”
And out of window pitch it,
For quite as likely, friend, as not
’Twas edited by Fitohett.
These are the gems, and such as these,
Who deck our Southern regions,
Their lovely faith each saint agrees
Is best of all religious.
Yet, other saints have work to do,
Prepared for them expressly
The earnest bard who sings to you,
Intends to curse, till all is blue,"
The gloomy name of Wesley.


rpHE NEW MOUNT ALBION SILVER
X MINING AND SMELTING CO., LTD.
[ln Liquidation.)
Tenders are Invited
and will lie received up to 12noon, SATURDAY,
7th APRIL, for the purchase of the whole of this
Company’s property situate atMoutalbiou (N.Q.).
The property offered is as follows
Smelting Machinery.
1 60-ton capacity water-jacket furnace; 1 30-ton
ditto; 1 15-ton ditto; 1 tram-elevator; platform
scales ; “ Hope ” stonebreaker, 15" x 7" ; 1 30-h.p.
Robey engine ; 3 roasting furnaces; 3 baker’s
blowers; 1 Manchester pump; 1 Tangye do; 1
Blake do (together throwing about 20,000 gals,
per hour); 3000 ft. assorted W.L piping ; tanks of
6000 gals, capacity; 2 Multitubular boilers,
14 x 5 ; and all appliances complete and in
thorough order.
Concentrating Machinery.
2 30ft. Linkenbach patent Buddies with 2 Spitz-
gastens, &c., 6 Jordan and Cummins patent
2 sets Cornish rolls, 3 elevators, 1 Blake
and Marsdens’ stonebreaker, 7 revolving screens,
sampling tables, &c., &c.
General Machinery.
Spare shafting, piping, belting, firebars, fire-
doors, steel rails (about 3 miles), trucks, bullion
moulds, slag pots, slag trucks, 60ft. archimedean
screw conveyor, Bullivant’s wire tramway com-
plete for 1500 fathoms, spare pulleys, Briquette
machine, cupel furnaces and frames, 2 Avery’s
o-ton weighbridges, 1 Ruston and Proctor’s 12h.p,
portable engine, 6in. centrifugal pump, 2|in.
rotary pump, l_Bh.p. loco, boiler, donkey feed
pump, Sli.p. winding engine, lOh.p. winding
engine, lOh.p. inultitubular boiler, Blake feed
pump, and 20' tons charcoal and a quantity of
lime and iron and firewood.
Buildings.
Office and dwelling two storeys, 36'x30':
tt-itchen, toolhouse, cartshed, stables, store, and
weighbridge office. Dwelling and office furniture;
i7ofi tln %* hed ’, 210'x 110'; concentrating shed,
x ; laboratory and shed, 93ft. x 50ft.
.tnrooms, blacksmith’s shops, &c. Engine,
'nine, and blacksmiths’ sheds erected at all the
mines.
oienlf 1 1 , ova * J l e to °l s am estimated at, at least,
kfWO ; the stores at =£looo.
1 here are 1500 tons of payable ore on the sur-
ace, and 2000 tons of matte estimated to contain
w oz. silver per ton.
u , ra ‘ nef ? are exempt from work (or let on
ribute) until 26th April next, and all workings
are m thorough order.
"he assaying and analytical plant is complete in
e , v ®ry requisite and material.
ins is the most complete plant for smelting and
oncentrating silver ores that has ever been placed
on the Australian markets. The machinery is all
goort, and the purchaser may commence operations
itliout a week’s delay. Fullest enquiries as to
probable success are solicited.
An unfortunate entanglement with the banking
institutions during the late financial crisis, at
ii,] l t"ne the capital of the Company had been
oaiiocl up, forced this Company into liquidation,
he outcome of which is that the property must be
realised upon for the benefit of the creditors.
Further particulars of the whole, and stock-
« leets of the stores, &c., may be seen on applica-
tion to J H. Rogers, Esq., Messrs. Alfred Shaw,
Imm ted, Townsville, and
JT ohn Cairns,
Liquidator, Gkack Stiieet,
HERBERTON, N.Q.
Bank of Yan Land, Limited
(IN LIQUIDATION*
grand Tottery
Sanctioned by Special Act of Parliament of Tasmania
57 Vic. No. 2, 1893.
And by SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT with the Bank’s Trustees, conducted by G,
ADAMS (TATTERSALL’S), as Sole Agent.
TOTAL VALUE OE PRIZES:
£300,000 300,000 Shares £1 Each.
' OF
First Prize:
Magnificent Corner Property in centre of City of Hobart, rental value £ll5O per annum,
rmfoi 61 r Lh Stock of Wholesale Chemist and Druggist, recently valued at
xJJSI. Ihe Trustees guarantee to deliver to the Winner Stock to this Value, or to make
up any deficiency in Cash (total value, £26,000)-
Second Prize valued at £22,500; Third, £12,000; Fourth, £10,500
And. 372 other Prizes,
Ranging from £9500 down to £lOO.
Address all applications to
geo nee adams,
Collins Street, HOBART, Tasmania;
08,
GEORGE ADAMS,
Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the receipt for registration till you receive our reply.
Any further particulars can be obtained from G. ADAMS, care of Messrs. CURTIS
and BARRY, Solicitors, King-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
TAYLOR BROS.,
Celebrated NEEDLE WOOD PIPES
Prices: 4/6 5/6 6/6 7/6
NEEDLE WOOD is vastly superior to any-
thing yet discovered.
Tayloe Bros, are prepared to return the money
to any gentleman who, on trial of Needle Wood
Pipe, can conscientiously declare that it is not the
Best, Sweetest, Coolest and' Dryest Pipe he ever
smoked. This is the opinion of every purchaser
so far.
Pipes sent to any part of the world (post free)
on receipt of Postal Order for the above amount.
248 PITT STREET
i
ORIGINAL and SOLE
MANUFACTURERS
OF THE
State Shape when ordering.
Silver-mounted and Vulcanite Steins.
EROMART
yj.
CEOMIY
Whisky
Greenlees brothers
QUSCOMLDHOON AND
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Hotels.
—THE—
Wentworth Hotel
a uti
CWKEUIIi;
ZXStjf
ft&S =
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
, Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs, HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
Kidout’s City Club Hotel
(facing the Public Instruction Office),
*r YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY 'm
la now the rendezvous in the Civil Service
quarter of the City for the EXCELLENCE of its
Cuisine and Liquors.
H. K. Kiclout ... Proprietor.
Publications.
C 3-. R. & Co.’s
New Australian Publications.
Parsons’ (H. G.) Handbook to Western Australia and
its Goldfields .. .. .. 1/-; posted, 1/2
De Lissa’s (Alfred) Companies’ Work and Mining Law
in N.S.W. and Victoria .. 10/6; posted, 11/-
Gibson, G. H.(“lronbark”), Ironbark Chips and Stock-
whip Cracks, beautifully illustrated, 5/-; posted, 5/3
The Antipodean, new issue, 1891, illus., 1/-; posted, 1/3
Monthly (§ook Circular <gree by gost.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361-363 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHA
Cupi
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Kush for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed I Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. liejant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2,
Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, postl/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
‘ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and publio
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hoilick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. B. BEAR, Central Book Depot.
16 Park Street. SYDNEY.
The Best Magazine Published in Australia
—IB—
SCR,IB3\rEFt’S.
Issued Monthly by THE CENTRAL PRESS AGENCY,
Limited,
48 AND 60 OASTIiKIIKAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
SUBSCRIPTION now REDUCED to 12s. per annum.
Published Monthly. Price, One Shilling.
The CHRISTMAS NUMBER now Beady,
FOB
Books and Stationery,
The BEST and CHEAPEST NOVELTIES
are Imported by
The CENTRAL PRESS AGENCY,
48 *fc- SO Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY
(opposite the Australia Hotel).
CHE A P MUS I C.
New Song, “Playfellow,” the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Songs,
Waltzes, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
20.5 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
Miscellaneous.
Best for the Wearied Soles by trying
B L L I S’ S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
©ELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladles, Gcutlemcu and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating whatsizeyou generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with, a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical boolmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES FOB CASH,
Post Free to any Post-town in Australia. CATALOGUES
POST FREE.
No matter how far back in the interior you mav reside,
we post the boots DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR. ELLIS’S
system has already 7 proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample tread,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY—they are a “going con-
cern ’’ from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw” or blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items: Gent.’s French Calf .or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d ;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo tiide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s 6d ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, band-closed,
13s 6d ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s 6d ; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s 6d ; Primes! French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s 6d, Tops for ditto, 12s 6d ; Plainest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s 6d (worth i'3 10s); French Calf Long Welling
tons, 28s 6d ; Three-quarter ditto, 26s 6d ; Half ditto,
23s 6d ; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
6d ; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s 6d ; Ladies’ and Children's
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies' Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto E.S., 16s 6d. Instock,—
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d : Nice Glace Oxford Shoe, 8s 3d; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep. Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s 6d ;
Glace, Button, 11s 6d.
•am
mss
/m
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT.
For a FEW WEEKS ONLY
A Guinea’s Worth
FOR—
13b. 6d.
Cut this Coupon out, forward ,
together with your Measure-
ments and Remittance of 13s.
6d., when you will have
mailed to you (post free)
a pair of those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow or
wide
toes.
/mi
/COUPON
/CUfNEfI
k/\LMORAL
SAME STYLE IN ELASTIC SIDES, IF PREFERRED
When sending, mention this paper
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
“lam pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me; make me another pair. I give you ray
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.”
“ The two pairs of boots which we had from you have
been constantly worn for months. You appear to use
prime leather. The wear has been phenomenal.
“GEORGE EARNGEY, Roads Office, Deniliquin.”
“ I am highly pleased with your boots, and you have
fitted me to a T.
“H. R. COTTAR, Tarella, Wilcannia.” .
“The boots (both pairs) fit splendidly, and give general
satisfaction. .
“GEO. QUEST, Jun., The Rock, Boggabri.”
“ The boots are giving every satisfaction; will forward
you all my orders in future. We are unable to produce
such a hoot in Queensland.
“ E. BERRY, Electric Telegraphs, Cooktown, Q.”
“ The boots you made me are an excellent fit. As you
know, ray right leg is shorter than the left. 1 can now
(thanks to your cleverness) w'alk with comfort and secu-
rity. I recommend yon to all my friends and acquain-
tances. MARTIN BATES, Mounted Constable,
“ Gilguunia, Nymagee.”
“ 1 can strongly recommend your workmanship and fit
as superior to anything I have ever had.
“THOMAS’PEARCE, Solicitor, Hillston,N.S.W."
“ The boots came to hand, are well made and fit well.
I send herewith order for four more pairs.
“Miss F. A. ROWLING. Court House, Balranald, N.S. W."
Special Notice ! Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
£lOO ' One Hundred rounds! £lOO
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. t 3; sth, do. £2; 40 prizes, value £1 each;
10 do. at 15s. each; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Remember!—ALL PARCELS POST FREE.
T. E. ELLIS,
HUNTER STREET. NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
SQUATTER’S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
Post Free, Os. 6d.
3-3 Size
R. &. G. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 George St., Sydney.
JSiT” Post your Razor to be Ground aud Set—enclose 1/8.
Selfishness—The fat man’s duty to his
neighbour.
Colemano & Sons’ Vie, Ointment is marvellous.
S.A. Register recently headed one of its
leaders “Monkey Talk.” The editor is evidently
a modest monkey.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
A recent Murchison (W.A.) suicide died
of “ koornah and aspipxia,” according to the local
paper. But he got there just the same.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Dear Bulletin, — I send copy of letter
received from manager of Goondi plantation,
Gerald ton, Q. You will notice they keep the lever-
end of the stick all through. The central co-
operative mills at Mackay give 13s. to 14s. per ton
for cane—a vast difference when the tonnage to
the acre is considered. And there is no mention
of the purchasing-price of land :
lu reply to your letter requesting information as to the
Company’s system of leasing land for growing ta ie, I beg
to inform you that approved farmers are leased land in
block on the following terms and conditions:—The rent
of scrub land is 3s. per acre per annum for land cleared
and not grubbed ; 10a. for land cleared and grubbed ; 13s.
for land fit for plough. The lessee has to pay all survey
fees, amounting to about £lO for a 30-acre block, and has
the right of purchase at any time during the five years
currency of his lease. Advances are made on certain
improvements up* to 75 per cent, of their value as
estimated by the Co.’s officer ; and the price paid for cane
is Us. per ton delivered on the Co.’s main-line of tramway.
Owing to the great demand for uncleared scrub land, it is
not the intention of the Co. to dispose of any more of this
description at present.
Yours, &c., Feed, Weekly, Russell River (Q.)
goldfields, 12/2/94.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
The pleasures of living in a country where
policemen are revolver-armed is shown by a letter
in Transvaal Akgus, of Jan. 13. The corres-
pondent, one R. A. Eckstein, was going to his
home in Johannesburg, one night, and had to
pass a Chinese gambling-hell, where the police
were making a raid :
A revolver-shot fired by Detective Doyle hit me on the
left side, within an inch or so of the heart, penetrated
the left lung, and was eventually extracted from my back.
Since then two abscesses have formed and discharged an
enormous quantity of matter into the bronchial tubes.
1 expectorate clotted blood freely', and am advised that a
third abscess may form at any time. 1 have been, of
course, and still am utterly unable to work for my liveli-
hood, and have been reduced to the poorest straits to eke
out a bare subsistence. Had it not been for my wife’s
exertions, and the kindness of the general public and a
few friends, I and all belonging to me must ere this have
perished of sheer starvation. Now, mark this, the shot
which so nearly cost me my life, and has ruined all my
future, was fired by a Govt, official at a most needless
mom -nt. All this happened nearlv six months ago, and
yet up to the present Govt, has made me not the slightest
compensation for the wanton act of one of its own
servants. I have appealed repeatedly, but without effect
Of course, the detective is very sorry; but
“accidents will happen.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
17 of this issue.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER,
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD,
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and IDs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne ; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and I*. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co
Dunedin; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses
The Travelling Post-Office.
The roving breezes come and go, the reed-beds
sweep and sway,
The sleepy river murmurs low and loiters on its
way ;
It is the land of Lots o’ Time—along the Castle-
reagh. j
The old man’s son had left the farm—he found
it dull and slow ;
He drifted to the great North -west where all
the rovers go.
“ He’s gone so long,” the old man said ; “ he’s
dropped right out of mind,
But if you’d write a line to him I’d take it very
kind.
He’s shearing here and fencing there—a kind of
waif and stray,
He’s droving now with Conroy’s sheep along
the Castlereagh.
“ The sheep are travelling for the grass and
travelling very slow,
They may be at Muudooran now, or past the
Overflow—
Or tramping down the black-soil flats across by
Waddiwong,
But all those little country towns would send
the letter wrong.
The mailman, if he’s extra-full, would pass
them in his sleep—
It’s safest to address the note to ‘ care of
Conroy’s sheep,’
For five-and-tweuty thousand head can scarcely
go astray —
You write to ‘care of Conroy’s sheep along the
Castlereagh.’ ”
By rock and ridge and riverside the Western
mail has gone
Across the great Blue Mountain Range to take
that letter on.
A moment on the topmost grade, while open
fire-doors glare,
She pauses, like a living thing, to breathe the
mountain air ;
Then launches down the other side across the
plains away
To bear that note to Conroy’s sheep along the
.Castlereagh,
And now by coach and mailman’s bag it goes
from town to town,
And Conroy’s Gap, and Conroy’s Creek, have
marked it “ further down.”
Beneath a sky of deepest blue, where never
cloud abides,
A speck upon the waste of phru the lonely
mailman rides ;
Where fierce hot winds have set the pine and
myall boughs asweep
l* a os the shearers passing by for news of
Conroy’s sheep.
big lagoons where wild-fowl play and crested
pigeons flock,
By camp-fires where the drovers ride around
their restless stock,
-And past the teamster toiling down to fetch
ie avvay
My | etter chases Conroy’s sheep along the
Castle reagh.
“THE BANJO”—in LONGMAN’S
MAGAZINE.
SHE WENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN].
Mid-day on a Central Queensland line. The
mixed train, with its long string of sheep-trucks
and wool-waggons, puffed fussily along at about
g ve m i] es an ] lour-
The second-class was crowded, though when the
train started from the terminus at daylight there
were only two passengers aboard; One, a tall,
languid young fellow, whom one felt impelled to
kick off-hand from laziness into energy because he
was 80 aggravatingly cool and complacent in spite
ie iea *' 4he flies and all the other annoy-
an ™ 8 ‘
Die other was a Kirl of twenty or so, with
brown, curly hair and a “most kissablemouth.”
In his indolently indifferent way he had offered
her part of a tempting little lunch, which the bar-
she ‘hfd^fid^tohim^tha?she w-^not
going out west any more. She was on her way
home to her aunt, at Blankhampton, and after
Christmas she was to be married to Billy
M‘lntyre, a carrier, “with two teams of his own.”
He seemed bored with all these particulars and
pressed her to drink from the flask he produced.
“Only a drop of wine—you may as well—you’ll
got no tea at any of these shanties along here. I
know them too well.” And she drank.
He turned away. Looking out from the carriage
window he cursed the Cod-forgotten country
IHIQ6r HIS OFFRth
Not a blade Q f grass—hardly a speck of green
anywhere. No water and only miserable skeletons
of sheep, crawling about the dreary, barren sand-
hills, or staggering across the hueless plains bleat-
ing dismally, watched by expectant hawks.
Here and there could be seen the bleached
remains of a horse, and at times small mobs of red
kangaroo and grotesque, clown-like emus gazed
curiously on the train as it passed.
SETS 'SlfiSSfc
round their necks, and expansive “sweatings,”
wfere just knocking off for dinner.
He turned wearily to talk to the woman with
tlie blistered face who was nursing the baby with
sore eyes—evidently a fettler’s wife going down for
the monthly supplies.
'killed and eaten milking
nanny. “ Wait till I tell ye now—and all bekase
we would not give them tea and sugar—and me
good man only getting six-and nine a day—and
the five children to keep, too,”
“ Well, my good woman, summon somebody
for it. Don’t weep—and give us a rest, do.”
The train stopped at a siding—a sentry-box in a
barren, silence-smitten region of sunburnt desert
strongly suggestive of suicide twenty-four hours
after arrival.
Several station-masters had tried to live in the
sentry-box, but they all went mad or scattered
their brains, and there was quite a little row of
graves near the creek. The present officer was
looked upon as a natural curiosity. He had stood
it three weeks. Those in the know said he was
elaborating a scheme for “Co-operative land-
settlement on communistic lines,” and was so
wrapped up in it that he did not notice the dreari-
ness of his surroundings.
A black boy, holding a sweating horse, came
out and spoke to the guard.
“Mr. Miall say you wait train till he come.
Buggy broke down at Mirnong Creek,”
The train delayed, in spite of the fact that the
languid one leaned out and blackguarded the
guard, fireman, driver—yea, even unto the Com-
missioners and all the Department, not forgetting
Mr. Miall. 6
Half-an-hour elapsed ere the buggy came at a
canter through the line of gidya-trees that fringed
the billabong.
The pompous autocrat of the desert having
sharply flicked the black boy with his whip for
not coming back to meet him, and, having stared
blankly at the volley of abuse with which the
youthful one overwhelmed him, took his seat in
the first-class carriage, and the train was allowed
to proceed.
The mother and her sore-eyed baby got out at the
town on the sand-ridge, and a young widow with
two boys got in.
She at once confided to the company that she
would go to New Australia if it was not for her
boys—she could not raise the money to take them.
And then—“My husband always was against
‘New Aus.,’ and when I heard that ho died
suddenly, I clapped my hands and said it was a
judgment.”
“ you also said, ‘Here goes for number
two!’ I’ll be bound”—interjected the juvenile
cynic from the corner.
Near sundown we reached the coach-town and
the widow got out. The woman with the feeding-
bottle baby and the bag of watermelons left. So
did the two Syrian hawkers with their bundles
wrapped up in bedsheets, and all the others except
a stolid-faced Chinaman and the two.
They were talking, and he laughingly broached
the subject of a trip to Sydney together.
She only looked him in the eyes, and asked,
“ And how about Willy ?” He only said—“ Damn
Willy !”
The sun set. They had some more of the bar-
maid s lunch. And the girl did not require so
much pressing when the flask was again pro-
duced.
They crossed the Range at twilight and then it
got dark quickly.
He unstrapped his rugs and made himself
comfortable with his head on her lap.
The Chinaman curled himself up in the corner
wide awake.
The girl dozed now and then, but always awoke
with a start.
The miserable oil-lamp only half lighted the
carriage.
Towards midnight the train whistled and drew
up to a water-tank with much grating of wheels
and screeching of axles. “Boxes hot,” from the
guard, and for about half-an-hour they were
diligently engaged with a jam-tin and a water-bag
pouring water on the axles.
He arose; and having done some more cursing
persuaded the girl to lie down in his wraps with
her curly head on his lap.
“ Make yourself comfortable, my dear girl, and
make up your mind to come to Sydney with me
and here he looked so fiercely at the Chinaman'
that John wished himself in one of the empty
sheep-trucks.
Under way once more; and at the next siding
John £ot out, and made his way through the
darkness to the Ohinkies’ humpies on the creek,
where, no doubt, some delighted “ kussin ” made
him welcome.
She knelt on the carriage-seat, hoping, in half-
hearted agony, that someone might come—some
passenger, even another Chow. But, no. Fate
was against her. She only saw the drowsy porter
on the platform, and some of the first-class
passengers trying to get a drink.
The whistle sounded. “ Seats please!” from the
guard, and the train moved off.
She watched the light on the platform disappear
—and then she turned and faced him.
_ He was leaning back in the corner, smiling in
his quiet, persistent way. “What about our
trip ?”
“No ! _No ! No !’’ There was a horror on her
face and in her voice, but she had drunk too much
wine.
The train stopped several times during the
night, but no passengers got in ; and a woman’s
weeping might have been heard—by the dingoes
and night-birds and cattle in the scrub, perhaps ;
there were none else to hear.
The lamp flickered and fluttered and went out,
and when daylight came he was sleeping as peace-
fully as a child, and the girl was weeping as girls
can only weep twice in a lifetime—once when a
favourite doll gets broken, and again when
And when, about noon, the train steamed
briskly into the station, as though it had been
doing 30 miles an hour, two people emerged from
the second-class carriage.
The young philosopher looking more bored than
ever, and the girl with tearful traces yet upon her
cheeks. Yet, when he said “How, now, about
our trip?” she fell to tears again. But they left
the platform together all the same.
Sydney, 10th Feb., ’94.
CURLEW.
It is suggested that all future N.S.W.
Civil Service appointments should be announced
to Parliament in the form of monthly returns,
which shall say who recommended each favoured
applicant. Just as if any but fool-politicians ever
gave written recommendations—which are chiefly
bogus documents to appease while shelving bores.
The dodge is invariably— “ A word in your ear,
dear George. There’s young Crumpled up; great
friend of mine,” &c., &c.
We hear that our neighbours up Pitt-
street—the indefatigable Hordern Brothers—are
sending suits of clothes to gentlemen in the
country, just the same as they would an ordinary
latter, post free. This is effected by medium of
the new Parcels Post, in operation since October
1. Verily, the Postmaster - General has done
everybody a good service by this Parcels Post—
both Sydney tradesman and backbloeker. It’s
really wonderful how this young country is
getting on ; let us open up some good reefs, boys,
and N.S.W. depression will soon be a thing of
the past.*


“Men T Have Smiled With.”
7 E STAY at 53 ruton’s,
TtLE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY, TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
IE you VISIT Srislsaxie, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with x
O’IZMUMZYT G-JEtJ^ISTT.
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
MOUNT VICTORIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
MOSS VALE.
ROYAL (opposite the Railway
Station) is where we always stay.
MOSS VALE.
QYDNEY and MELBOURNE TOURISTS and
TRAVELLERS find every convenience at JOHN*
SON’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
NunaTnoc
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
ARM ID ALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
Mrs. p. Wade’s
TATTERS ALL’S HOTEL.
The Traveller’s HOME in New England.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
Hennessy’s Queen’s Hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
Acknowledged to be the FIRST HOTEL in
Queensland, and patronised by their Excellencies
the Governors of Queensland (Sir H. Norman),
and of N.S. Wales (Lord Jersey).
Blue Mountain Hotel,
Near TOOWOOMBA.
To Meet the Times, the Prices m this POPULAR
SANATORIUM have been Reduced to 42/- per
Week. FREE use of Buggies and Billiards.
Every Comfort as Usual. Conveyance meets
trains at Harlaxton on receipt of Letter.
E. EYERINGHAM, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW.
THE CLUB HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely Neiv Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL in
Queensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
train. Private Suites. George A. Godsall.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
miscellaneous.
lOST POWER REGAINED
*"AJ(D health restored. T c“.““ le
*r ho stomach drugging.
Send six “amps for illustrated treatise on UAethual,
i reatmk.nt. Every Weak, Nervous and Debili-
r s D n ? read it. DR. GEO. WALSH,
131 Collins Street, Melbourne
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL— 00MF0ETIN6
COCOA
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS,
SOLD in PARIS by
J • FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and m Australia by all Chemists.
THE LAST OF SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
Says the celebrated author of “ Robbery Under
wiinL iT I n i hese Tales of the Austral Tropics
tlu mf | fOUIU A’ 6 s . tran 8 e romances which write
themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the
tr fl li a mt W . n^ ysteri F us regions of tropical Aus-
u. ‘ . ■‘•“at they are not less true than terrible
1 take it upon myself to affirm.
nn 16 writer has turned scene-painter for the
nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the
crania of the Waste.”
addSi lsf e 3a! lilling ~ PoSted t 0 an y Australasian
“THE BULLETIN’S”
Missing Word Competition-No. 12.
An y purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Saturday, 31st
March, 1894. IXS
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
u The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word Competition Coupon. —No. 12.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the 'missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or IS penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin ” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received hj Saturday, March 31st, 1894,
Great Britain is at last waking up to the fact that the wild-eyed Anarchist
is an eminently resident, and steps are being taken to shift him.
When he is shifted, Australia will be almost the only place in the world
where he can manufacture his bomb in peace.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly yet a cheque for the total amount
received no deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
«
Bulletin ” Series, KTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
u
-OF-
A Gol
IDITTCOiT
»
By
antj
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
“ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
cc
BuUetin” Series, 3NTo. 3.
tt
The Last of Six
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVEIfG.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewood.
Opinions of tb.e Press ;
“ The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six ’ though in nnint n f f w „u
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the- doings of the whi'es and the* F ’ Th °
parts A strong vcm of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chabter ana u faraway
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.S.M. Herald, July S, 1893. e e y chapter, and for those who are fond of
No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than PVnoof , ~
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which hfv’. and the Becret of thli is that
fle, too, possesses great descriptive powers.. Whatever he puts ren to is certfin to helnnH I tnl • posBe f sed by scarcel J r any other writer,
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain.”— Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893. ’ stones under notice he has given us some of
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its lnh^itentsTthey h tefl? n ’ Btrikin « Pictures of
when human hearts are-stirred by strong.passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of loneH men rSV* 8 e ha ? P o? wild places
tale of cannibalism treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which to other hands 'migS ™gross andhn wi vf M is a terrible
thrilling interest. ‘ The Haunt of the Jinkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and h™lmitato?S to * aveno “ ak es of
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, in which Mr Favenc hero 18 SGlf rebcved fronl fhe
characteristic is especially noticeable in * Spirit Led,’ which the great American might have written ‘A Pun of Pm proaches Poe - This
Sgg that shouM'be widely read, and which forms a worthy addf^S^
“‘The Last of Sixand other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Svdnev Tin- Ttr-r T w
graphic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare coliecSon^rAhstraHan Collec . tioa nf short but
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection Tu 7 /V 1 th c stories here arc good,
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences. ’’-Austealian Star, July 15, 1893 collection, ihe present issue forms the third of Tub
— — —i-
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.


MITCHELL’S
—CELEBRATED —
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS —
Fleas, Flies, Says, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches,
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer—B. T. BELLEMEY, Chemist,
151 King Street, SYDNEY (late Rig-ney’s).
Tins, 1/-; Boxes, 1/6. On receipt of stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1/9.
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT—
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Sole Manufacturer
OF THE
CELEBRATED
“LION"
'V
J s.
tWAPE WAR*
BRAND
Confectionery .
Warehouse; CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Box 1034,
Telephone 958.
SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver n/iid Electro* pls/ted Goods
—AND—
CCTTLEET
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sliow Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
« THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
IMPERIAL HOTEL
Wynyard, Square, SYDKTEY.
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Terms—los. 6d. per Day
M ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACING THE RESERVE.
Walter Sidney (late of Newcastle), “Prop.”
NOTICE.
Readers of The BulCetxn, when-
ever situated, trill greatly oblige by
informing the Mai urging Director of
any locality where they m >y he unable
to procure the piipe'r, ' and naming
any reliable person who woiud pro-
bably undertake its sale.
New South Wales Fresh Food & Ice Co.,
limited.
The F. F. & L 00. have arrangements concluded for full Supplies of Fish during the Lenten Season.
The Fresh Food and Ice Co have exclusive control of the refrigerators on the Union Co’s steamships Waihora, Maravoa
and WafraJpa and have arranged with the Union S.S. Co. to run constantly during the Lenten season between New Zealand
Q from Frmdon with English Fish, is due on 2 •’id. February. .1
Formal Supplies we draw largely on the South Coast fishermen, and jistnow it is estimated fully 100 men areac.iv e) |
engaged procuring fish tor our Company.
FISH SENT twice a day to any part of the CITY or SUBURBS, or COUNIBY.
a. mmi@M - ■ 25 # ar: ’ our & mi ’ & d W:
AUTUMN, ’94.
Now comes “the winter of our discontent,
made glorious summer 55 by the untiring efforts of
your affable and indefatigable servant, FOY.
Now an unfolding in all the glorious tints of
Autumn
Moreas
Hop Sacs
Cheviot Serges
Autumn Tweeds
Undine Cloth
Epingus
Bengaline
Whip Cords
Redolent in all that is beautilul, becoming and
bewitching, sensitive to the touch and pleasing the
wearer, and all of which will bear our symbol of
excellent good value.
—AT —■
MARK FOY’S,
Oxford Street,
Sydney .
The EMPIEE, HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, : Sydney.
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, oi Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
IBoELrca. and Residence at Moderate Charges.
Every Modern .Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders.
m
$
11
9
'
m*
■
INCLUSIVE or SEPAL LIE TARIFF, AS T)ESIRED-
Luncheon, a la Carte, from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D’Hote, „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s. 0
&W Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may always re y
getting a First-class Meal. _ _ . *
J. CURTIN, Proprietor
‘THE LAST OF SIX
