

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
A
4?
Parsons 5 Flaked Oatmeal
JEs#e
Mining
•9
107 Kent street, Sydney,
rmitra.fttors’ Plant Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
■o- s<a
MALTED COCOA.
<RAck^A«
o/ S V
v
K. A. Hervcy, Agent, :iS JFUt-st, Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON Sc SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Doff, the Earl of Jersey,
Lord Carinqton, etc.,
385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING AMD HAND BAGS, 810-
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.; *
jgf” Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
n-
j
2
o*
r*is
rofiS
m
Lfe-X—.. 11
7 s *
T He Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
sdf
s°
&
Before vlyihnj the C*/ write te the Manager for
Ora of Tariff. (brrejpgmtence promptly attended to.
QUEENSLAND SADDLERY.
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low pnoe,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
applied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbanepneea.
TORONTO HOTEL,
LAKE MACQUARIE.
Terms: 7/- and 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
Access easy. Train direct from Sydney or the
H. A. BRETT, Managbk.
— - ■■ ■■■ ■ '■■==
ds
nr
Sole ,A*se:*x-fcs
3sr<s-<pv
c. HO
South Wales for Messi'
Clayton.
aud Shuttleworth
—THE—
Oldest Plough-makers
In thb Would.
THE BUILDERS
OF THE
First Iron Plough in the World.
We have a reputation for Plough"
nmking all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE
which is not to be equalled by 07
of the younger and less experience.,
firms.
st£cbag
mms
—THE-
Howard Digging Plough*
The most perfect Cultivator
yet made.
To be had in all descriptions.
all classes
—OF—
Agricultural Implements
and MACHISWIY.
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely-extended SHOW-
ROOMS.
Sydney.
Howard, 280
m
& 2SOS Pitt Street,
The Bulletin
Yol 14—No. 750.]
[Saturday, J uuo 30, 1894
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Poet ae a Mewepaper.


Medical.
STOP THAT COUGH 1
TAKK
Bennington’s
Irish Moss
(, Registered)
Certain Curb for
COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all
THROAT and CHEST COMPLAINTS.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Sold everywhere.
Wholesale: 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
WHITE ROSE
The most refined of all Perfumes.
Sweet a.s the Rose itself. Imitated the
world over, but equalled by none.
ATKINSON'S
EAXJ DE COLOGNE
is now universally preferred to the
German kinds. It is more fragrant,
more lasting, and very much more re-
freshing. Use none but Atkinson’s.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION J —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow lube! and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Rose”— A
and address in lull.
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
mffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS
'Bi
Sr
ft
:
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. Every
(offerer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will bo acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
os a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
■qual to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ao-
eording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
bo found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
•nergy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
K" at of rest. Let any person give Bkbcham’s Couoh
a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeohara, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 60 pills), and at
Is. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
iverywhere,
K.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes <t> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
aliments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplier! for their use
faj every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxfobd-st., London, i ff" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
■ourious
cm
m
m
v tr
?4p
&
0
I
y ✓
t
%
1
m
'WoULDNT I LIKE TO BE Ift I?
MANUFACTUT?ET> TSY THE
i
NEW YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO CO
Cleveland Street,
- ,
Medical.
The First Step
FOB
NERVOUS MEN
tsr APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PERRY 3
145 Euzabbth-St., SYDNEY.
3F*:r-ese>
Are to be found in the “ Light andljfo,'
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address-
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
. 76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
MAJVHOOD.
HEALTH. STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTOREi
In Four Weeks by the use of
xy p ricor os
cE °f F E ‘
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions ,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of ]2s, or four quantities in one for 06s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Ferry & Co., 73 Gertrude,
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Spul &Go., Pitt-st.,Sydney
JOWS
VEM BRO CAT! 0
! t
JV
(A
l\ai£Q
|solo i}%%
/VHERE'I
l'\
y<s
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDBEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
"The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
It the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy .
Thk Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
Une .Person, one Yote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
-Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System,
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Uhmaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailirtgly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian jou'tnal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the cla’ms of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—-
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance). Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
INVISIBLE BEAUTIES.
ARTIST: “It appears to greater advantage when you stand back and
close one eye.”
CANDID FRIEND: “No doubt; but to still greater, advantage when you
close both eyes.”


Medical.
3
112 PHILLIP ST,
SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine Ss Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine,
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to. the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now coinplet >d the revision of his popular work on
" NERVOUS 4 SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions:—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hiJden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vin6s will, on receipt of £X !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for tiie cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Charge NT othing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have"the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Vin£s for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Honrs of Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications f
Dr. JECKELL VIKTBS,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN"WRITING
No Cure, 3XT o Hr* ay.
g^O-GAWANICSUSPENSO,,
belt
fV
n
fPHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
x cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid.- We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list■'fpost free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria C3 Elizabktu Street, SYDNEY.
Early Deoay!
4 T T men. young and old, suffering from
J\ I I I i Debility and Nervous Prostration,
caused through losses, lead a life of misery, the
reward of their ignorance and folly.
If you will have a CURE that is PERFECT as
well as CHEAP, and so SIMPLE that you can
DOCTOR YOURSELF, send your address, with
stamp for reply, and we will mail you (SEALED)
a description of an instrument worn at nights, a
NEVER FAILING REMEDY.
Foreign Novelty Agency,
Private Box 347, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
beef IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
' and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY I‘UUE.
Proprietor*; £
mited, BRISBANE.
Medical.
Df. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOXJNTGI ndSKT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely ;—Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle; cold hands and feet j pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &0., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WOM,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope. ?
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR- GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR ,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia. .
All communications should be addressed —
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(Two doors from Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
KRUPP
qUanic Chain
Every person suffering from any Nervous Com-
plaint, from whatever cause arising, should procure
one of the above appliances; guaranteed to cure
completely and permanently the following com-
plaints :
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Com-
plaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy Spermatorrheea,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation,
Defective Memory.
Send for Treatise, FREE, in which the Belts
are fully illustrated, the action of electricity on the
Nervous System explained, and a lot of useful information
pn Nervous and Sexual Diseases given.
Address— The Krupp Galvanic Belt Agency,
Box G 47, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
nnron
m
•THE REAL•
ELIXIR"'LIFE
THE TRUE SOURCE Of
VIRILITY-
f
35
I5 T *
MANHOOD RESTORED
[«1 OSINS PROFESSOR LEFORDS
v 'frHS(ArEjr
p
FOR.
MotytJ
debility!^
HYPOCHONDRIA
BASH FULNESS.##
I F/vts eAV
ft LORE
I IH fIU WE<
c
SEND S| TO
.O.WIILIAMS
El Elizabeth 5t
SYDNE.V
&
3
5S
3Q r "
A£e?»-
}of AUSTRALASIA
sdf
REUTERS LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
GUARANTEED to core sick
i headache and every disease
of the liver, stomach and
bowels. A safe cathartic. Do
not afterwards constipate.
The smallest and easiest to take. 40 in a vial.
BARRY’S TRIGOPHEROUS
FOR THE HAIR,
ds
An elegant dressing, exquisitely-
perfumed, removes all impurities
from the scalp, prevents baldness
and gray hair, and causes the hair
to grow thick, soft and beautiful.
Caution.— None genuine without
trade-mark of Barclay h Co., N.Y., affixed to eachbottl*.
BEFORE AFTER
; MOUSTACHES • IN • A • MONTH
Von Ritter’s Celebrated Hair and
Beard Mixture prevents the hair fall-
ing out ; positively causes a luxurious
growth on the baldest head, and forces
whiskers and moustache in a few weeks. Recommended
by the faculty, and extensively used by the nobility and
military of Europe. Never failing in effects ; easily ap-
plied, and guaranteed harmless. Thousands of young
men, having used i to 3 packets, already wear whiskers
and moustache ; its rapid action surprising everybody.
Write at once; letters answered by return post. Packets,
25. each, 3 for 55., post paid, sent free from observation.
Address STEPHEN PRINCE & CO., Sole Australian
Agents, Box 565, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W. [Regist'd.
LADIES’
ORIENTAL FEMALE PILLS.
TRIPLE POWER. Restore regularity
without fail, no matter what cause or how long
standing. Box posted, ss. Write. Mr. W. GARFIELD,
Universal Buildings, Collins-street, Melbourne.
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Ia.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Shipping.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under: —
f
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and <£s7 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Branch Passenger Office,
Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at I’ELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
EST AUSTRALIAN GOLDFIELDS
COOLGARDIE and THE MURCHISON.
The Adelaide Steamship Company’s Fine
Steamers leave Sydney WEEKLY. Best accom-
modation and Lowest Fares. Apply
G. S. YUILL & Co.,
17 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
MANLY
00-operative Steam Ferry Co. (Ltd.)
v —FROM —\
No. 1 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
(Foot of Pitt-street), to
Ma.in. Manly Wharf
rPHE STEAMERS of this COMPANY run as follows
(weather permitting, and as far as practicable):—
heave Sydney—' 7.ls, 8.0, 9.0,10.30,11.30,12.30(1.0),
1.30 (2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.30 (4.0), 4.30, 5.0, 5.30, 6.15,
7.80, 9.30, 11.15.
heave Manly—l. ls, 8.10, 8.45, 9.45, 11.30, 12.30, 1.30
(2.0), 2.30(3.0), 3.30 (4.04.80 (5.0), 5.30, 6.0, 6.30,
7.0, 8.30, 10.15.
Trips marked () Saturday only.
Special Time-Table, Sundays and Holidays.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
MAKTHOOD
WEAKENED by youthful folly, excesses or any
other cause, CURED IN 24 DAYS by
Dr. Brown-Sequard’s Triple Compound
Life Essence.
The greatest discovery of modern days. Price £l. By
parcels post (unobserved) to any colony 2/- extra.
Pamphlet sent FREE. Young men contemplating mar-
riage, the married—young and old—should send for free
pamphlet. Write. F. H. Dc LEON, 325 Collins
Street. MELBOURNE.
mr
SQtJAfj
P. O. BOX 920.
Qualified Specialist In the Diseases of
|% A PJ" |W' I Nervous, chronic, skin,
IVI CL I ■ and Special diseases of.
Treated with guaranteed success. Weak-
nesses removed and life made worth living
for. Fits, Bladder, and Kidney troubles
cured. Vigor, health, and manhood restored
WOMEN.
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle aged, and old ladies; *
Irregularities treated with entire con-
fidence and success.
All Consultations Free, and Curable Cases guaranteed.
VigOP Pills for lost vitality, debility and
weaknesses, 65.» 21s. for 6 boxes.
Female Pills for irregularities and obsl.rue-
tious. 10*. & 20*. per box. GuaranteedO.K.


Business Announcements.
HAMMOND TYPEWRITER.
dsf
NEW ANVIL and SHUTTLE
MODEL, unrivalled for Speed,
Alignment, Impression, Portability
and Interchangeable Type, takes
any width of paper. Send for
specimen of our beautiful work
before you buy any machine.
.. , , T hc MERRITT TYPEWRITER.
am J 1 }, 11 * l3tel8 > doctors, Teachers, etc. Price, £4 4s.
amuerc* Letter Files and Requisites always in Stock.
7
Sole Australasian Agents:
Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
HELD AND WILSON,
A. W. STEPHEN, L.S.,
HYDRAULIC ENGINEER.
Surveys and Estimates on Irrigation Works a Speciality
MULGOA, N.S.W.
D. E. REID,
Analytical Chemist and Assayer,
GYMPIE.
Business Announcements.
3aggjuiijw>»
®UFACTim|
hats
fJJf'S
Mercer*-.
PRIDDY’S
HATS
nl once
PIIOOIiAIM
THE
iwAisr.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Bo not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
~\7V orld-renowned!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s.,.
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
Bank of Van Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION,
grand Tottery
Conducted by GEO. ADAMS (“Tattersall’s”) as Sole Agent.
800,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 372 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
Apply Early.
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limited.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gas Engines,
SHAFTING. PULLEYS. STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tw Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries iutellieentlv replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
A meric an Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over $oo Apart-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, <S r>c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. 9
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
• Plum ’
TH1
■rote
THE
‘Plum*
("1 ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Jt Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. Wc f/uarantcc each Razor for Two Years.
Price
Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania , Is. extra
Fo e
Agonts !
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
Fire Fis/cs at Lowest Fates,
Head Offices:
-95-
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
sdf
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITA!*
1150,500
..•a>7
x^vT/’
#>
Directors;
Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
{Chairman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.C.,
JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
SPECIAL FEATURES.
It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
EGBERT HERE, Manager.
Cellular Erie* Underclothing.
A Positive Safeguard against thills.
Recommended by Medical Faculty.
JUST OPENED:
MERINO and WOOLLEN UNDERCLOTHING.
Natural Merino Undershirts (half sleeves), 7 6
~ (long sleeves), 8,6
Natural Merino Pants 8,6
This line is specially recommended as easily washed
unshrinkable, and very durable.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Day Shirts, Pajamas, Caps,
Hosiery, Belts, and Braces.
Sole Agents—
David. Bra.ha.-m & Co.,
75 King Street, and 305-307 George Street, Sydney
(Nearly Opposite Hunter Street).
SQUATTER’S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
Post £*ree, 6s. 6d..
2-3 Size.
R. & G. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 George St., Sydney.
Post our Razor to be Ground and Set —enclose 13.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
S YIIN EY, N. S. IV ALE S.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. Gd. per Day or £3 3s. per Week,
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the' Establishment.)
Banking.
-THE—
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydnky Branches:
C 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
mHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £309,000
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Bank of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid up . . £200,000.
Reserve Liability .. 260,000.
Head Office - JEBtriabane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office • 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Medical. '
Teeth.— A- complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other Arms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
BR. HACK E TT w rites : “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . , The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
posi fr *e on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, Ao.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
Wholesale by
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO.. Sydney.
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney.
TILLOOK & CO , Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney.
HOLDSWORTH, M'PHERSON & CO., Sydney.
MASSEY & CO,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney .
FACTORY, YOUNG, N.S.W.
YES
We have the patronage of most of the leading
SENIOR and JUNIOR Clubs,
So it follows that OUR FOOTBALLS must
give the very best satisfaction. ■
IMAHTIN’S ~
RUGBY
WE ARE
the people for all
the latest and
BEST things in the
FOOTBALL line
or any other kind
of sport.
MARTIN'S
SOCJATIfI
Gilbert’s Match 11.
14/6 each, by post 16/-
Wisden Match 11.
13/6 each, by post 14/-
MARTIN'S
«ar P.s.—Special Terms for Clubs.
Wisden ‘Perfect’ Match
13/6 each, by post 14/.
'■V -
Wisden ‘Wonder’ Match
10/6 each, by post 11/-
SYDNEY SPORTS DEPOT,
CORNER OP
MARKET & CLARENCE STS., SYDNEY
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
ZtsTBW SZHIXIPIMIEIsrT OX 1 TWEEDS,
SUITS TO MEASURE, 45/- - TROUSERS, 12/6
Country Customers please WRITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS. I®'” Carriage
Paid to any part of the Colony.
S. M. BAUMASHB, Manager.
LONDON di MELBOURNE TAILORING CO., 31 Erskine Street.


The Bulletin
BtgiKred at (hi General Poet Office. Stdnep, fere (nmsmimon hi peel <u a Nmepaper.
Vol. 14—Hb. 750.
SATURDAY, JUNE 80. 1894.
Prio«,6d.
Tuition
#
mmf
m
or
■ J
f
i*sob
, < f *S»*aw<«*sW'
.-vfistv*.*
*■*«»■ -„,... „
•fr—
i :
l&:
dsf
THE POLITICAL HEATHEN CHINEE.
The cards that were played by that heathen Chinee,
And the points that he made were quite frightful to see—
Till at last he put down a right bower.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
/t 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This o ffer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
! The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus~
Italian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 2000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
tjmmunications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin mil return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, K.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers’
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also; B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetoum, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter jvovincial N ewspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No jiapers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Notice to Agents.
MAORILAND, TASMANIA and WEST
AUSTRALIA.
Owing to Governments of the above-named
provinces having imposed Half-penny postage on
all papers from Ist July, 1894 , agents are in-
formed from that date the wholesale rate for
The Bulletin will be altered f rom Four Shillings
to Four Shillings and Sixpence per dozen.
T^e'^xxlle^x/n.
SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1894.
Dibbs’ Federation Policy.
Fob many months past a cold fit of apathy
has held possession of the Federation party
in Australia. Politics at the best are a kind
of intermittent fever, and every burst of
enthusiasm is succeeded in time by a period
of dull indifference. In the case of Federa-
tion, however, the enthusiasm was never
very deep or very genuine. There was no
party openly or definitely opposed to the
Commonwealth project, therefore no other
party could oust it from office by being
in favour of it. No party, by taking up the
cause with enthusiasm, could dish any other
party. There was a lack of opposition, and
in the noble system of Government by Con-
tradiction nothing can succeed without
opposition ; the thing that everybody is
in favour of seldom comes to pass, and
the scheme that everybody approves of is
not approved to any good purpose by any-
body—unless from motives of personal cor-
ruption. Moreover, the scheme of the
famous Convention was too large and beau-
tiful, and too full of vague yearnfulnesa
about the destinies of “this great nation,”
and no one, under the system of Govern-
ment by Contradiction, really cares anything
for the destinies of the nation. Also, it
assumed as its fundamental principle that it
would be possible to find all the six Govern-
ments of Australia and Tasmania in the same
mind at one and the same time—which
was, in itself, almost an impossibility, unless
under the influence of some overwhelming
common danger. The Australias, like all
other States, are subject to waves of Demo-
cratic fervour, of Jingoism, republicanism,
monarchical grovel, and every other shade of
sentiment, but they never all get the same
sentiment simultaneously. A few years ago
New South Wales was violently loyal; South
Australia was placidly indifferent ; and
Queensland was just developing that tran-
sient National Part}' which threatened to
start a republic and ship the British viceroy
back to England. Now Queensland is ruled
by the one abjectly and incurably Tory
Government in this continent, while South
Australia is almost the most conspicuously
Democratic province in the Empire. The
Commonwealth scheme makes no allowance
for the difficulty of building a constitution
which would suit all these varying opinions,
but it is a very real and very insurmountable
difficulty none the less.
• * •
Also, there are many other obstacles in
the way. The provinces with a small area
and a comparatively large population want
to make men the basis of representation,
while the thinly-peopled provinces of enor-
mous space demand that square leagues of
empty plain shall be taken into considera-
tion. There are violent disagreements as to
adjusting the burden of the public debt,
and the provinces which can show a surplus
and a tolerably solvent balance-sheet object
to coalescing on even terms with those
which only stagger along by a ruinous job-
bing away of the public estate, and the con-
stant issue of Treasury bills and other
similar makeshifts. Queensland, which is
run by a clique of imperialistic grovellers,
and S.A., where the Democracy has just
successfully stormed both Houses of the
Legislature, can never agree as to the
franchise of the Federal Parliament. The
planters of the Par North want to safeguard
their beloved Kanaka traffic, with which the
South has no shadow of sympathy. The old
governing classes of Westralia regard the
people of the East as invading barbarians.
The three provinces whose railway systems
have almost arrived at a state of solvency
object to take over the bankrupt lines of
Queensland on equal terms, and to assume
a share of its burdens ; and several dozen
other problems, difficulties, and prejudices
have combined to wreck the Commonwealth
project almost beyond redemption.
* • #
Under these complex circumstances, Pre-
mier Dibbs, of New South Wales, has come
forward as the altogether unexpected prophet
of Australian unity. And, though his project
has been received with a shriek of derision by
the Foreign-trade press, and especially by
Mr. H. Parkes, it is perhaps the most pro-
mising that has yet been advanced. Premier
Dibbs’ suggestion is simply that the Common-
wealth should make a small beginning with
such material as is immediately available.
Instead of waiting for that almost impossible
period when all the six provinces will be of
one mind and be prepared to come to an
absolute agreement upon one scheme, he
proposes that such of them as are of one
mind Just now should lead the way by form-
ing a confederation among themselves. If
any beneficial results accrue from their
union, that fact alone will cause the other
provinces to send in their adhesion one
by one till the Commonwealth is com-
plete ; and if, oh the other hand, the pro-
posed league can offer no sufficient in-
ducements to its neighbours, they will pro-
bably remain apart as at present, and
Federation will be a small failure instead of
a great one. In short, he proposes that the
Australian Commonwealth should grow up
by a natural process of development, as did
the Swiss Confederation, the United States,
the Canadian Dominion, the old Dutch Re-
public, and many others. His published
scheme contains no gorgeous imagery about
the destinies of this great nation, or the
Southern Cross, or any other Parkesian
heroics. It is a plain and dismal matter-of-
fact statement of certain immediate cash
advantages to be gained, and, being what it
is, it appeals to the ordinary intelligence as
the great Convention fantasy never did.
• • •
Premier Dibbs proposes to make out of
New South Wales and Victoria the first
small beginning of the great Australian
league that is to be. These two provinces
contain between them about three-fourths of
the population of this continent, therefore
when combined they must carry sufficient
weight to exercise a powerful influence
throughout Australia. Their census returns
are nearly equal, so that they can federate
on an equal basis without any dispute con-
cerning the balance of Parliamentary power.
Their debts are not very far from equal;
that of New South Wales is the greater by
about £9,000,000, but her larger land-
revenue fully makes up the difference.
They would bring into the partnership public
works to almost exactly the same value, and
producing almost exactly the same revenue,
so that there is no financial difficulty in the
way. Their tariffs are sufficiently alike to
make a mutual agreement comparatively
easy to arrive at. They have no Kanaka,
Chinese, or other race problems of a serious
character. Also, each has a moderately
liberal Lower House and an aggressively
conservative Upper House, so they would
probably evolve without any serious diffi-
culty an eminently unsatisfactory Constitu-
tion which would be suitable to both parties.
* * *
The fact that the Constitution would as-
suredly be an unsatisfactory one in many,
perhaps in most, respects, is hardly a serious
disadvantage. At present both New South
Wales and Victoria are in the midst of a
struggle for the overthrow of the old policy
of government by the propertied classes.
The consolidation of their equally effete and
discredited political systems would only
mean that there would be one Legislature to
reform instead of two, for when the Federal
Parliament was once placed on a democratic
basis it would find no difficulty in reforming
the provincial Legislatures on its own model.
Even union upon a bad and immoral system
is better by far than no union at all. If all
Australia could be united under the control
of a Federal Legislature based on the plan
of the very worst provincial Legislature now
existing in this continent, it would still be a
decided step in advance, for then there
would be only one battle to fight instead of
six, and the democracy could combine in one
great movement the power which is now
frittered away in half-a-dozen isolated con-
flicts. Therefore, the fact that the legis-
lature of the two united provinces would
probably present many of the worst features
of both the existing systems, is no reason
why the Democratic party should not give
Premier Dibbs’ project its support.
* • •
The wisdom of the proposed scheme is
sufficiently evidenced by the conditions of
Queensland and South Australia, the other
two principal political factors of this
country. It would be impossible even for
Dibbs and Patterson at their worst to
evolve a Constitution sufficiently Jingoistic
and “loyal’’and abjectly grovelling to suit
the M‘llwraith Cabinet, therefore the idea
of waiting for the adhesion of Queensland
before laying the foundations of the Common-
wealth means indefinite postponement. And
it would be equally impossible for either of
them to construct a scheme sufficiently en-
lightened and liberal to suit the present
trend of thought in South Australia, there-
fore to wait for that province also means
indefinite delay. Yet, if Dibbs’ project
should be realised, then the Commonwealth
will probably absorb its neighbours one by one
as they rise to its political standard, or as
it rises to their standard, whichever the case
may be. But it will certainly not absorb
them all at once, for the sufficient reason that
the six provinces will never rise or sink to
one simultaneous level. In one way or
another the work of consolidation, once
begun, will almost certainly go on to its
legitimate conclusion, and then United Aus-
tralia must rise or fall according to its own
deserts.
• • «
The material inducements which Premier
Dibbs offers in the immediate present are :
(1) the combination of the. defence, postal,
telegraph, railway and other departments,
whereby a great saving of expense will be
effected ; (2) the substitution of one
Governor and gubernatorial department and
one Agent-General for the two now existing;
(3) the establishment of a Federal Supreme
Court with a uniform code of laws ; (4) the
creation of a uniform tariff, the abolition of
all internal duties, and the final ending of
the ruinous war of railway rates ; and (5)
the greatly improved security which the
Federation could offer to the British
creditor, on the strength of which
the public debt might be consolidated on a
uniform 3£ per cent, basis. By all these
reforms it is estimated that a saving of
something like £1,000,000 per annum would
be effected. The inducement to the other
provinces to join the Federation in the
future would be the prospect of sharing in
these obvious advantages. And the induce-
ments to the Democracy in general to urge
on the hitherto neglected work of unification
are too numerous to be described in full.
But among them one of the most important
is the fact that when the Australian Common-
wealth is established the solid majority of
the South will be in a position to put its
veto once for all on the Kanaka and Coolie
trade of the Far North, on the land grant
railway policy of Queensland and Westra-
lia, on the Chinese influx of Port Darwin,
on the M‘ll wraith immigration policy,
and on many other iniquities which
are now perpetrated in the outlying
regions of Australia. Also, it will have
in United Australia the nucleus of a
future Australian republic, whereas its six
scattered and disjointed provinces are the
nucleus of nothing save weakness and disin-
tegration. It is quite possible that none of
these considerations enter into the calcula-
tions of Dibbs or Pattbrscm, and that neither
of them has the remotest desire to lay the
foundations of a future republic. But even
if they are only two blind politicians leading
each other by accident in the right direction,
so long as they maintain that direction Aus-
tralia has no need to cavil at their blindness.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Men and Jury-men.
Melboubne Standard has lately amused its
little self by collecting legal opinions upon the
jury system, a subject of grow ing interest in a
city where jury decisions give less than the
general average amount of satisfaction. Some
barristers and lawyers, notably those who have
appeared for Mercantile Bank defendants, ad-
mire the system as much as ever, whilst others
“ condemn it unreservedly.” Serious discussion
of the one and only unassailable principle that
governs the administration of law-court justice
is a waste of time. The argument that twelve,
or six, honest, intelligent men are less likely to
agree upon an unjust decision than one honest,
wise Judge is likely to deceive himself in the
matter, is still good enough for Australia to
swear by. Prejudice has more power to sway
one man than to persuade a dozen to a wrong
conclusion. Moreover, it may often happen
that the real merits of a case are comprehen-
sible only by one experienced citizen here
and there, and that particular citizen is oftener
found in the jury-box than on the Bench.
Being in the jury-box it is as possible for him
to put the facts before his eleven colleagues in
a convincing way, as it would be for a Judge to
expound the truth to a round dozen of un-
enlightened minds. Trial by jury is always
admirable in theory ; when it proves otherwise
in practice the responsibility for a miscarriage
of justice rests upon the system which regulates
jury selection. Too frequently the twelve
fatuous or forbidding faces in the box do not
represent the community at large. The owners
of those faces are not in the aggregate as honest
and wise as the Law may reasonably expect
them to be. The heads and countenances of
the all-important twelve often constitute a libel
upon society which accepts them as a fair
chance selection from its midst. It has been
remarked in The Bulletin that a scandalous
verdict does not put the jury “ out of court ”
for the future. An unmistakeably corrupt Judge
would not long retain his authority for mis-
doing, but a distinctly “ cronk ” or aggressively
stupid juryman is beyond the reach of public
indignation. It is even possible that his unfit-
ness for duty may be a special reason for bring-
ing him again into requisition. In the sum-
moning of juries lies the only excuse for sneer-
ing at the “‘palladium of British liberty.”
Before the maladministration of this law of
selection can be thoroughly understood the
public must have a quarterly return of the
names, addresses and occupations of all jurymen
empannelled during the three months, showing
the order in which they were empannelled and
specifying those chosen to serve. Then the
careful observer will find a considerable differ-
ence between the average 12 jurymen who are
selected and the 12 average citizens who would
fill the box if the system were worked strictly
on lottery lines, and nobody could shirk his
responsibility to the State. Selfishness and a
lamentable want of public spirit explain the
apathy with which Melbourne regards its jury
scandals. One is puzzled to account for the
fact of any legal person charging those scandals
to a sound principle instead of to its perver-
sion. Barristers should be the first to point
out the disease and call upon Justice to effect a
cure.
A Shabby-Genteel Story.
At Launceston (Taa.) a few days ago a branch
manager of the National Bank of Tasmania was
found guilty of stealing .£63 belonging to that
bloated corporation. There was no attempt at
defence ; the accused didn’t add perjury to his
other sins, and he was convicted on his own
confession without the slightest trouble. The
only evidence called was with a view to show-
ing extenuating circumstances. Accused, it
appears, was married, and his wife was suffer-
ing from severe illness which involved him in
serious expense. Being manager of a bank he
had to maintain an appearance commensurate
with his position; if he hadn’t, he would have
presently lost the aforesaid position. He had
to keep a horse, for one of his duties was to
convey gold between certain adjacent towns on
behalf of the bank, and as that soulless institu-
tion wouldn’t pay for the horse it had
to come out of his salary. And the salary
out of which he had to pay for the horse
and the sick wife and keep up appearances
generally was just <£2 6s. 2d. per week. The
.£63 wasn’t spent in gambling or any kind of
dissipation ; it was simply used to preserve the
miserable banker and his family from starva-
tion ; and the discrepancy in the cash preyed
upon his mind so much that at last he gave
himself into custody, otherwise the paltry em-
bezzlement might not have been discovered.
Also, he had spent three months in gaol await-
ing trial. Judge Adams promised to consider
all these extenuating circumstances, and then
wound up with the utterly brutal and heartless
sentence of three years’ imprisonment. Under
the conditions, most people would imagine that
the bank wanted the three years’ imprisonment
much more than its miserable, half starved
officer—whose case would have been ade-
quately met by a sentence of another three
months’ confinement; but the good, old lag-
time code views such matters differently.
It would be interesting to know if the boss
officials of the Tasmanian National Bank, and
the Crown Prosecutor, and Judge Adams him-
self, feel quite sure that they, or any one of
them, would have been much more honest than
the wretched manager was underthe sameghastly
circumstances. If they do, then they are about
the most self-confident crowd that The Bulle-
tin has ever heard of, in Yandemonia or out of
it. Apart from the very small class which is
criminal by instinct and inclination, the dif-
ference between the law-breaker and the legal
potentate who sends him to gaol is mostly a
matter of external circumstances ; almost any
man can be a criminal under sufficient pressure.
Even the most aggressively-moral Judge who
ever sat on the Bench might get into gaol with
surprising facility with a sick wife and a salary
of £2 6s. 2d. per week.
Tlie Great Australian Adjective.
Dear Bulletin, —Anyone taking a casual
stroll through the busy city streets, more
especially along those thoroughfares almost
exclusively devoted to totalisators, expec-
torators, lamp-post supporters, inspectors of
public buildings, and the unemployed generally,
cannot fail to be more or less painfully im-
pressed by the unpleasant iteration of Australia’s
pet sanguinary adjective which assails his
unwilling ears. Whether there is a something
in our warm and genial climate which tends to
the growth of the crimson epithet, or whether
the use of the gory expletive is, in reality, not
excessively abnormal, but only appears so to be
because it falls upon our ears with such com-
mon frequency in the same prescribed area, I
am not prepared to say, but certain it is that
the use of this vigorous expression is not con-
fined to any one particular class of the com-
munity, but permeates, more or less, almost
every grade in the social scale, from the hypo-
critical chimney-pot and black-cloth frock-coat
right away down to the realms of knitted ties


and inflammatory scarves. At a recent subur'
ban race-meeting, a young man, dressed in the
height of fashion, but apparently respect-
able, was fortunate enough to draw a
favourite horse in a sweep. The horse
won; and, as the animal cantered past
the judge’s box, a wild, unearthly shriek
of “Hoo b y ray !!” rang out over the heads
of the assembled multitudes and filled with
dismay the heart of every listening soul within
the radius of a quarter-of-a-mile around. Now,
if there is one thing in this world that I abhor,
it is playing the parson, for, conscious of my
own individual demerits, I have, at all times,
carefully refrained from censuring my fellow
creature. But this wanton, ruthless, mur-
derous outrage upon an innocent, inoffensive
word was more than I could brook, and, for-
saking my customary caution, I determined, as
a matter of duty, to reprimand the young man,
sadly thinking that, perchance, he had never
known what it was to have had a kind mother’s
fond love or the blessing of a doating old
father’s paternal care. Calling him aside I
ventured, in my mildest and most persuasive
manner, to protest against the unwarrantable
outrage of which he had just been guilty, and
pointed out that the use of the expression,
“Hoo blanky ray,” was not only profane—but
even blasphemous—that it was rendered all
the more aggravating by reason of its being
superfluous. The young man looked at me for
one moment in astonishment, and then, in a
most unrighteous burst of indignation, yelled
out at the top of his voice, so that all around
might hear, “ Super b y fluous, be d d !
mind your own vacuum business!” This vindic-
tive retort at once staggered and silenced me.
With disgust and anger rankling in my bosom
at the miserable failure of this one solitary
attempt of my life to elevate my fellow man, I
moved away. —Yours, R. Dup.
The Queensland Quarrel*
The threatened strike of Queensland shearers
shows the A.L.F. at its best. Its officials are
never so happy as when mouthing manifestoes,
and the last production, which rhetorically
draws a contrast between slaves and serfs and
Oriental despots, is one of the most striking
of the Hinohcliffe series. Shearers have,
apparently, short memories. It is only three
years since a similar strike to the one in which
they are now invited to engage was ushered in
with precisely similar rhodomontade, to peter
out when the strength of the unions was
broken, their funds dissipated, and the sheds
swarming with blackleg labourers. The
unions have never recovered from the blow.
Do they wish it repeated ? A strike at the
present juncture, when they are weaker and
their opponents stronger than in 1891, can only
result in a failure still more disastrous. It
would be ruinous in fact, and fatal in policy.
The success of the Labour-party in Southern
Queensland can only come through recognition
by the small farmers, the small property-
owners, that it means reform, not revolu-
tion. A strike, with its corollaries of
cut fences and burnt woolsheds, is the surest
way to convince them that it means revolution,
not reform. The Bulletin has said, and
repeats, that the arbitrary alteration of the
joint agreement by the pastoralists is a trea-
cherous and tyrannical abuse of power. But
the pastoralists, as individuals, are not wholly
to blame. They are mostly tools of the banks,
and a succession of strikes, with a consequent
importation of cheap and ever cheaper labour is
just what the banks want. Instead of wasting
money in strikes let the shearers devote it to
the electoral campaign, and to the gradual
settlement upon the land of their own members.
But, it may be said, there is a limit to endur-
ance. If this year we submit to a curtailment
of our rights, next year will see them still
further curtailed. The reply is that the
employers will not dare to push desperate men
too far. If the present strain can be by any
means borne, bear it, and effect a peaceful
change through the ballot-box. What Maori-
land, with a comparatively Conservative popu-
lation, has done, Queensland can easily do, be
she but well guided,
—— — -
The article on “ Doubles” in last week’s Bul-
letin seems to have brought forth fruit with
altogether unexpected velocity. Last Monday
some ten or a dozen betting-house keepers the
same lot which the poor, overworked N.S.W.
police department has been so utterly unable to
find for many months past—were summoned to
appear at the Sydney police court, and turned
up, as usual, with much jewellery and bear’s-
grease, and other gorgeousness. Hitherto
the unlawful bookmaker, when haled before the
bench, has gone through a certain recognised
formula, and then departed on his way rejoicing.
When his name was called he jauntily pleaded
guilty; his solicitor thereupon made a few
feeling remarks about the respectability of his
client; and when he had finished, the
defendant dragged out a stupendous roll
of notes, and paid his ,£lO fine, and
went back to his shop to lay more
doubles until the police, for mere appearance
sake, gave him another turn a year or so
thence. This time, however, the good old
formula went wrong. The first defendant was
called and pleaded guilty, at the same time
feeling in his pocket for the usual roll of
plunder to pay the fine, but while he was still
clutching the notes the Bench remarked that
it would be one month in gaol without the
option. Then the defendant’s jaw dropped,
and his hat fell from his palsied hand and
rolled on the floor, while the other accused
hastily told their solicitor to apply for a post-
ponement, and fled unanimously from the
court. An hour later half the betting-
houses in King-street and its environs closed
up and the proprietors proceeded to lie low
till the storm blows over. The usual appeal
will probably ensue, but meanwhile the “silver-
double” man is mostly concealed under the table
in the back shop, or else is scooting over the
Victorian border looking for some safe place in
which to hide his well-oiled head until the
good old days of the £lO fine come back again.
I n the Westralian elections the Government, at
time of writing, leads slightly, thanks to a
revival of all the rusty old election tricks that
could possibly be furbished up to defeat Demo-
cratic members. All the safe constituencies
were placed first on the list; though Perth was
a woeful disappointment. The rest were
scattered over three weeks, so that the plural
property voters might have time to travel from
constituency to constituency and swamp the
resident vote. The polls for Yilgarn and
Nannine, contested by the leading opponents of
the Government, De Hamel and Illingworth,
were fixed last of all, so that plural votes could
be concentrated, and no second chance should
be open if they were defeated. In addition
to this the election was sprung upon the
country at a few days’ notice, to give as little
time as possible to reply to the “ policy of sop ”
enunciated by Premier Forrest. All this cor-
rupt dodgery has been made, to a great extent,
impossible in the Eastern provinces ; but it still
flourishes in the West under the domination of
the “ six families.” At time of writing 26 seats
are decided ; seven are still to contest; and if
the Opposition gain all or most of them the
Forrest Government will have to go out.
♦
Candidates for recent S.A. Legislative Council
vacancies had their expenses limited under the
Electoral Act passed last session, and further
had to furnish full statements of their expenses.
Returns were recently published. In the Central
Division the Labour-party ran two candidates
and elected one at the head of the poll at a cost
of .£36 12s. Bd. Fuller, the Defence League
candidate, spent .£507 9s. Bd., and ran second.
This does not include the hundreds spent by
the association in securing his return, whereas
the £36 odd spent on Adams and Berks repre-
sents the total expense incurred. The maximum
within the Act is £5lO. Had Fuller spent
but £2 10s. sd, more he would forfeit his
seat. In Southern District it cost Brewer
Smith, the property candidate, £420 6s. Id.
to get in, M‘Gregor, Labour nominee,
£157 13s. 9d. Maximum allowed, £430.
Here again the successful candidate nearly
reached his maximum allowance. Reckoning
the Ass expenditure at £3oo—a very small
amount—that animal pays nearly seven times as
much as the democratic party to get its candi-
date elected. By the way, the returns dis-
closed the fact that Fuller’s expenses were
almost entirely paid by millionaire Angas, who
contributed £5OO. This little fact leads to
much speculation as to whether the new mem-
ber ought not to be called “the member for
Angas.” Although it is only to be expected
that the Fat Man will easily dodge the Act,
the returns already received give a good idea of
the methods adopted to keep the mule interest
to the fore in the Legislature.
A CORRESPONDENT :
Dear Bulletin,— Harcourt’s proposed increase of the
succession duties is a step towards Socialism, and there-
fore not a cause for Bulletin anger even in its bearing
upon “ Australian interests." Nor is there any apparent
desire on the British Government’s part to oppress Aus-
tralia in this matter. If Australia objects to having the
heirs of a few absentee fat men taxed heavily for the
benefit of the British State, the “ autocratic ” Govern-
ment will forego its claim, no doubt. But an alleged
democratic Australia can hardly protest against a good
thing being done at its expense until the country is pre-
pared to do the same good thing for itself. You would
have John Burns calling upon the submerged tenth to
curse the antipodean dog-in-the-manger. It is true
that Australian wealth feeds England, whilst English
wealth, though it may be squandered considerably
throughout Europe, does not feed, but only bleeds,
Australia in return. Don’t howl at the Rose-
bery Government on that account. The trouble
of Australia is the trouble of Canada, and South Africa,
and the seed of a coming revolution in America, whose
millionaires slaughter pigs at Chicago that their wives
may entertain Albert Edward in London. New countries
are doomed to be money - making grounds for the
absentee until such time as they accept the fact and legis-
late upon it, instead of howling at certain notable
absentees as though they were exceptional cases. The
real chief partner in every big Australian business is
spending his profits abroad, as a rule. It is certainly safe
to bet that his family will ultimately live in the other
hemisphere if the business holds out, or the old man’s be-
quests were sufficiently large. Is the British Government to
blame for the snobbish instincts of humanity in general?
No, dear Bulletin, not any more than you are to blame
for J. B. Patterson’s precious birthday title. You talk
wildly about “ tne imposition of a tax which will make
the occupation of the Wilsons and the Coopers synonym-
ous with absolute beggary.” Such a remedy for ab-
senteeism were impracticable, I imagine. Why do you
not advocate a plain, straightforward income-tax upon
all estates exceeding a certain acreage, all house
property exceeding a certain value, and all busi-
ness profits above a certain amount? The apparent
resident owners should, in the first instance, be treated
as the sole real owners, and when they produced proof
that the absentee was swallowing most of the money that
foreign person could be taxed extra accordingly. It is
only Fat Man who talks about the inquisitorial character
of an Income-tax, because the enquiry, if honestly made,
would reveal such a state of affairs as would rouse Aus-
tralia from its torpor. Under present conditions, how-
ever, an honest application of a Socialistic principle is not
likely to occur. Do you find fault with the Brit'.sh
Government on that account?—Yours, English.
“ English’s ” logic, so far as it is decipherable,
is that, because Australia doesn’t tax the Aus-
tralian property-holder as it should do, or as
England thinks it should do, it is the square
thing for England to tax him and keep the
money. What’s the matter with the same case
turned upside-down ? Maoriland has a land
tax ; England hasn’t. England won’t tax its
big landholders as Maoriland thinks it should
do, therefore Seddon will impose a tax on
English lands and keep the money—if he can
get it. England “ can’t protest against a good
thing being done at its expense till it is ready
to do it for itself,” surely.
—
The latest plaint of Mr. Henry Parkes is
that Australian Cabinet Ministers are often
men of plebeian origin, and not of the highly
culchawed order which prevails in Hingland.
Some of them, he says reproachfully, have
gained experience in a country store, some have
been policemen, some have come from the
counting-house, whereas in the dear old land
(which H. Parkes never seems to want to go
back to) “statesmen are trained from the
cradle in an atmosphere of politics with a view
to the high positions they may subsequently be
called upon to fill.” Therefore, Parkes im-
plores the nation to make a fresh start, and
send only “ men of trained ability ” into Parlia-
ment—in other words, to send no man into
Parliament until he has already been there.
The ex-toy-shop-keeper and ex-agricultural
labourer, cheerfully assumes that the store-
keepers and the policemen are men of an
entirely different order from himself, and he
professes to view them from a purely ex-
traneous standpoint. When he speaks of the
statesmen who are trained from the cradle in
an atmosphere of politics, he obviously means
Gladstone and Salisbury and Rosebery, and
H. Parkes, and he vaguely implies thereby
that Salisbury and Parkes stand apart from
the common herd and come of an elevated
family and an ’igh lineage. And, as usual, the
old man makes a gaudy ass of himself, for the
average British statesman is raised in an atmos-
phere of beer instead of politics, and the House
of Commons consists mostly of brewers, dis-
tillers, shipowners, manufacturers, traders,
lawyers, and the like ; and the only difference
between it and the N.S. W. Assembly is that
one represents the wholesale shopkeeper and
the other the retail one. But Parkes, who is a
clod by birth as well as by instinct, has always
had, like almost every but-partially-emanci-
pated clod, a yearning after pedigree and
“ blood,” and every now and then he comes
forth from his fastnesses of hair to make a
mournful exhibition of himself on the subject.
And Parkes, when he gets fairly started, can
make a more mournful exhibition of himself
than any other man of The Bulletin’s ac-
quaintance.
Rev. Prohibitionist Isitt : “You can never
regulate the drink traffic. So long as the weak-
ness for drink remains in humanity it will
laugh regulation to scorn.” Very true. And
here’s the corollary : You can never prohibit
with success the drink traffic. So long as the
weakness for drink remains in humanity, it
will laugh prohibition to scorn. And that will
be always. Thirst is eternal. A weakness for
potent liquors is thirst’s shadow, and can only
vanish when thirst vanishes. Witness the pro-
hibitionist settlement under our eyes at Mil-
dura (Vic.), and study the statistics of the
sly-grog-selling convictions. To prohibit the
manufacture of liquors would be a fruitless bit
of foolery. Alcohol is needed in the arts and
in medicine. To prohibit its sale would make
millions of rogues, perjurers, and sly-grog dis-
pensers. Moreover, the art of home-brewing
would be revived, and some genius would dis-
cover an easy and economical method, “ within
the means of the poorest families,” of home
distillation of cornjuice. Smuggling would
flourish like a green bay-tree, for the prohibi-
tionists do not suppose that they—puny folk !
will ever control every square foot of land on
this planet, and every vessel on the heaving
ocean, which could be utilised as a distillery.
These fanatical fools talk through their necks,
and their hats, worse than any drunkard. Also,
they mostly “ live on the game,” while a
drunkard, poor wretch, loses by it. A State
may successfully “ regulate ” the sale of liquor,
but to prohibit the use or sale of it is to try and
bull’s-eye the stars with a pin fire popgun.
Pastor Isitt says that from 1000 to 1500
ministers are annually lost to the churches
through alcohol. Statistics set down medical
men as being proportionally more numerously
decadent, while solicitors and barristers come
close up under, and the press keeps its part of
the table well in view. Seeing these things are
so, why is it not the professional classes that
haranguers of the Isitt type invite to their
halls and publicly attack ? Why do they in-
stinctively seek the most ignorant of the com-
munity when they want an audience ? Why do
they above all prefer the crowd to consist of
women? The reason appears to be that the
addresses of Isitt and his kin are such congeries
of true and false statistics, and true and false
deductions from statistics, and true and false
opinions all round, that trained thinkers cannot
listen without protesting or making known in
some way that the performance is a pretentious
monstrosity.
-*
The approaching New South Wales election
promises to be a Tipperary row of the first
order. The most joyous place in the whole
province on polling-day should be Paddington,
where there are 15 candidates for one seat. But
though Paddington promises to furnish the
most gorgeous shindy in the State, there
are other electorates which will be almost
equally hilarious. Annandale has seven can-
didates ; North Balmain, seven ; South
Balmain, seven ; Bingara, eight ; Bowral,
Burwood, the Clarence, Cowra and Glebe,
six apiece ; Eden, the Lachlan, Petersham, Ra-
leigh, Glen Innes, and Sherbrooke have nine
apiece; Gloucester, seven ; Leichhardt, Mac-
quarie, Moruya, Randwick, and Rylstone have
each eight candidates; Granville, Hastings,
Monaro, Newtown, Singleton, St. Leonards,
the Tweed, Wallsend, Waratah, Waverley, and
Wellington have six each ; there are twelve
politicians in the field for Marrickville;
seven each for Newcastle East, Newcastle
West, Parramatta, Richmond, and Shoal-
haven ; ten in the Belmore division of Sydney,
ten in Willoughby, and nine in Uralla. Most
of the other electorates have three, four or five
candidates, and more are befng heard from
almost daily. Altogether the general election
of 1894 promises to be the greatest and most
astonishing thing of its kind which the pro-
vince has ever witnessed, and the result will be
much the same as if a blind man shot at a con-
gregation with a gun—which men get in and
which are left out all depend upon how widely
the gun scatters and which way the blind man
happens to point it. In the present case the
nation at large is the blind man, and the ballot
is the gun.
It is possible to see pretty clearly whither some
of the “great newspapers” of Australia are
tending. Formerly a certain number of columns
were “ advertisement,” the rest were “open.”
Of course, a long “ad.” meant a “good
notice,” but reports were not actually paid for
by the column. Now all this is changing, and
there are “great newspapers” in Australia
which give full reports of meetings of societies,
send-offs, mutual-admiration slobbers, election
speeches, Parliaments, real and bogus, &c., at
rates varying from 255. to £4 a column.
Machine setting will reduce the cost of “ com-
position ” by more than half, and paper grows
cheaper every year, so that the sys-
tem is capable of any amount of extension
in a loquacious and advertising age. The
reading public and the reporters are the prin-
cipal sufferers. The dailies of Australia are—
not even excepting those of England—the
heaviest and dreariest in the whole world, and
when the new system is in full swing they will
be mere official organs for foisting on the
public pages of windy rubbish. Probably they
will ultimately sink under the weight of the
gold piled on their columns, when the public
rushes to buy small, crisp sheets, written with
a knife and a strong wrist, and democratic by
force of circumstances. Advertisers will soon
find that nobody reads the cumbrous leviathans,
and the latter will have the choice of mending
or ending themselves. Clubland in Australia
is not big enough to give them an asylum such
as the British Fat Man gave the Times when it
was fired out by live competitors.
Those who object to a Government attempting
to license the press, or threatening to do it,
should, if consistent, object as strongly to a
Government attempting to license a music-hall
or theatre. Newspapers like the S. M. Herald
argue that they are amenable to law, and that
if they offend, the law can be put in motion
against them, and to make them subject to a
Government, or a member of a Government,
would be an intolerable tyranny. But music-
halls and theatres are similarly amenable to
law, and it is within the memory of everybody
that in New South Wales Parkes and Uibbs
and others have enforced this intolerable
tyranny, and on their mere word forbidden
entertainments and performances. The press
which stands by and allows this administrative
interference to go on without protest where
music-halls and theatres are concerned is out of
court when it protests against a similar censor-
ship over itself.
♦
The Baptist Conference at Warrnambool (Vic.)
recently considered the advisability of holding
“ a week of prayer, with a day of humiliation, a
day of crying to the Lord with fasting, tears,
and supplication,” in order to improve the pre-
sent gone-bung condition of the province. This
good old remedy only proves that the Church
never learns anything. Fasting is merely
physical discomfort, and affords no more spiri-
tual advantage than a day of wearing tight
boots, or of confinement in the coal cellar, or a
day up a tree, or a day spent in a cold bath, or
24 hours of concealment under the table. Even
a day spent sitting in the waste-paper basket
would be just as jagged and uncomfortable,
and therefore just as pleasing to Providence.
The idea that there is joy in Heaven be-
cause one infinitesimal speck of meat on the
far horizon of infinity has a gnawing at the
stomach —said gnawing being endured solely in
the selfish hope of a big dividend—is a curious
remnant of superstition. Also, it shows that
the church regards its stomach as the most
important part of it. When it wants to make
the biggest propitiatory offering it can think of
it solemnly deposits its tummy on the altar of
sacrifice gts an equivalent for all its past sins,
and asks Providence to call things level.
John Cox Bray.
So Jaunty Johnny Bray has sidled off into the
next world. His political life, in any case, was
ended. If he had gone back to S. A. next year in
the best of health, he could never have hoped for
anything better than a seat in the Council.
Opportunism is as dead as Imperial Federation.
For 21 years Johnny managed to persuade the
electors of East Adelaide that he was a Liberal
with Radical tendencies. They knew he was a
native and a pleasant little man with a knack of
getting on. So they helped him on. John
Downer and he were great friends. They
had hereditary Conservative tendencies, and
these tendencies were developed openly at
last. When Johnny took the Agency-General
in 1892, he knew that his seat was not safe. And
the little man had had a good innings. Out of his
21 years in Parliament he had been in salaried
office ten —as Minister and Speaker. Then he
had over two years as Agent-General. He was no
sort of orator, but he was an excellent debater
with the rules of the House at his finger-tips. Nor
did he damage himself by over-scrupulousness.
The present Judge Boucaut called him a rat at an
early stage of his political career, and the name
stuck to him. His gait was typical of the man.
He did not walk. He sidled. He was always
ready to laugh with those that laugh, and, to do
him bare justice, he was not averse from putting
his name to a subscription-list on behalf of a
popular object of charity. Johnny was splendid
company. Ho was always ready and he did not
stand much on his dignity. This was wise, for a
more undignified personage didn’t exist. There is
a picture of his father—an institution in his day—
in a public-house in Hindley-street, Johnny was
no less of an institution. He was a sort of public
pet. But the pet was shrewd, and kept both
eyes on the main chance. As a lawyer, he
was not a brilliant success, but somehow he
made money and added unto it daily such as
should be saved. Thus it happened that on the
retirement of Thomas King from the part-pro-
prietorship of the S. A. Advertiser, Johnny
stepped in and bought the concern. His name
never appeared on the imprint and very few
people know to this day that behind “Burden and
Bonython ’ ’ stood J. C. Bray. Now the cards
have been shuffled again, but The Bulletin
would not be surprised to learn that amongst his
assets is a share in the Advertiser. Which will
explain a good many things to Adelaide people.
And about that knighthood. It is quite true that
Johnny once refused the “honour.” But it was
because, through some English mistake, it was
offered to him as Premier at a time when he did
not hold that office. He took it afterwards like a
bird. Now the rest of the acts of J. O. Bray
and all that he said, are they not written in the
Hansard of his province, and in the reports of the
proceedings of the Australian Natives’ Confer-
ence and of the National Australasian Convention
of ’9l, and in the obituary notices of the daily
press? He did as little harm as he could —being
naturally of a kindly disposition—but he loved
power and wasn’t going to be left in the cold ; not
if he could help it. He moved Heaven and earth
to get Arthur Blyth out of the S.A. Agency-
General so that he might have it. And he could
not complain— for he was a fair-minded little man
and knew the rules—if Heaven in the shape of
disease, and earth in the shape (it shape it can be
called, which shape has none) of lumbering Tom
Play ford, the market-gardener, combined to hustle
him out of his pleasant little life.
Froude, the historian :
An Oxford education fits a man extremely well for the
trade of a gentleman. 1 do not know for what other
trade it does fit him as at present constituted. More than
one man who has taken high honours there, who has
learnt faithfully all that the University undertakes to
teach him, has been seen in these late years breaking
stones upon a road in Australia. That was all which he
was found to be fit for when brought in contact with the
primary realities of things.


FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A. Good, axxd Cb.eap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD;
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
HZ
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO
IMVEKNE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any uh r bfvnd. ‘ liny them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
articl , by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
smokers only read THIS 111
*"vN receipt of Stamps or P. 0.0., value 16/6, we will
forward to any part of the colony (carriage paid),
BOX OF (100) INDIAN CIGARS,
Sovereign brand, genuine Triohinopolies—us'nl price, 557/6
DON’T MISS THIS 1
M. &, H. WOOLF & CO.,
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Q.P.0.)
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
June 26, 1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—
I am pleased to see that Sydney Fencing Club
continues to put forth a little green shoot or two
now and again, though its last show (unlike the
one gone before) was unadorned by lady con-
testants.
Certainly the meat-safe head-gear, the pack-
saddle-like frontal guard, and the clumsy gaunt-
lets are not the sort of fancy etceteras a woman
prefers to take to the stage in, and I wasn’t so
very surprised to miss the two swordswomen who
figured so successfully at the show before last,
though their absence led to a very unrelieved bill.
By the way, fencing is a most practical means of
protection. To a woman who can handle a rapier,
a parasol is as good a protector as a big brother.
The Sydney ’Varsity Sports Fund ball came off
at Sydney Town Hall on the shortest day of the
year (June 21), and was, I am led to believe, the
sort of ball any committee might point to with
pardonable pride. I was genuinely aggrieved to
miss the always-pleasant University dance, but a
late train spoilt ir,y chance, and I only “ heard
tell ” that the decorations were cleverly tacked up,
the music good, the floor less dusty than usual,
and every second girl in blue and pink like a bit
of Dresden China.
Talking of hops, I see that the cold-blooded
newspaper man has at last struck on giving Rags
and Co. a displayed advt. at the fag-end of the
reverent account of every public festivity, just
because said Rags has lent the show half a mile
of pink paper. A report of a recent Sydney
chanty dance concluded : “ A list of those firms
who donated in kind will be advertised in our
columns by the committee.” If this sort of thing
spreads from paper to paper, begging charity-ball
committees will find themselves coldly received by
tradespeople who consent to having their furniture
and so forth run off its legs on the unspoken
understanding that the committee will buttonhole
the reporter and impressively draw his attention
to the fact that Bung and Co. lent the forks. If
the reporter refuses to record the astonishing mag-
nanimity of Bung, we shall probably hear less of
the persistent philanthropy of that merchant, and
charity-ball dividends will be smaller than ever.
The concert in aid of the Sydney Church Home
was an unfestive effort—the only amusing thing
occurring when the Orpheus Club (led by Ashcroft
Edwards) sang right through the two numbers
(billed miles apart) set down for them in one go,
and then pouched their music-books and went
home in high dudgeon. Yet I hope their fell
example won’t be followed by other vocalists just
at the tail of the show. Somebody has to be last,
but if the end man gets even with his fate by sing-
ing his two numbers in one revengeful gasp and
then going home in triumph, concert-organisers
are likely to become a very bald-headed contin-
gent indeed.
I hear that there will be some lively wool-
pulling over the people that followed their Excel-
lencies into supper at a recent ball, though where
the honour and glory of heeling the Governor
comes in I can’t make out. There is very little
social distinction in vice-regal party-dom. As a
matter of fact, his Ex. rarely knows how many
total strangers follow in his footsteps at festivi-
ties as part and parcel of his own particular gang
—it has sometimes seemed to me to be a case of
who can get nearest to the Joss and squeeze
tlirough before the door shuts, regardless of the
shoo-shooing of the officials. And even if you are
fully appointed to a place in the fan-tailed
“vice-regal party” it doesn’t necessarily mean that
your social apotheosis has arrived. It may only
signify that you have worn yourself to a thread
organising a Big Pumpkin show, or something of
the sort, and that is your reward —to choke down
a ham-sand wich 40 heads away from the Governor,
who doesn’t even know you’re there !
On dit that one chief objection the society
people of Borneo or thereabouts have to the
local Governor’s wife is that she sports no
diamonds. To be ruled by a Brahminess
in a jet necklace is particularly rough on a
glittering society which rather plumes itself on
its gorgeous jewel-case, and though a hostess
should never break her neck, as it were, to out-
shine her guests, still there is a happy medium
between bog-oak and the Koh-i-noor. Women
who visit the Bornean Govmentouse with all their
jewels on say that it makes them feel too peacooky
for words when her Ex. receives them with as
much glitter about her as a packet of pins, and
one matron (at a recent at-home) slipped a couple
of diamond bangles into her pocket for fear of
looking too exuberantly prosperous in the presence
of so sparsely-jewelled a hostess. It strikes me
that the most successful Governor is the potentate
who is chosen on the weight and sparkle of his
wife’s parure. /
Speaking about crystallised carbon, I must say
that I quite fail to understand the jeering at a
well-known matron up north, whose devoted
hubby purchased certain very well-known dia-
monds which his plump pansy - blossom now
publicly sports on her ample bosom. Diamonds
must come into a family some time, and the
woman born with a diamond necklace is only a
shade luckier than the woman who achieves it
later on.
The vice regal party kept bad time at the
amateur performance in aid of the Sick Children’s
Home, which happened at Sydney Royal Stan-
dard on last Saturday evening. When they did
come they came like a wedding-party, arm-in-arm,
with Sir Robert Duff last man in and having
nobody to squire. I really must protest against
the Y.R. habit of tarrying at the top of the pro-
ceed ings as if loth to miss a quaver of the Anathema
that plays them out while the “formal ” portion
of the audience stands on one foot, or plants its
beels in the floor to prevent the vulgar herd from
knocking it sideways in a disloyal rush to catch
the last tram. All the other Governors I can
remember would bolt in what looked like mortal
terror when the Anthem began, and, before you
could scratch your etceteras together, Governor,
Governoress, aides and all would be swallowed in
outer darkness. But now it is not so. People
who wait to let his Ex. have a clear run to the
street get as fixed-looking as so many pillars of
salt before it’s all over.
The amateurs presented a double-barrelled bill,
“Sunset” and “My Lord in Livery;” the last
named, a smart up-to-date farce, went tremend-
ously. Major Leigh, A.D.0., was completely
disguised as Spiggott (tho’ there is something too
exuberant in the hue of his hair for an old family
butler) and acted with a supreme indifference to
the prompt side that was very refreshing to see in
an unprofessional. Besides which Brother Rupert
No. 2 put convincing comedy into the part, and
altogether deserved the persistent applause which
dogged his footsteps right through. Miss Gilles,
as Sybil, was the leading lady in all senses. Her
lively, natural style and crisp, well-trained voice
pulled the other two not over-gifted maidens thro’
the rattling farce, which must go with a run or
else bore you to death. Miss G., in an Abigail’s
gown and a Frenchy frock of grey and pale rosella
parrot-pink, kept the author at full gallop, so it
didn’t matter a row of pins that Laura (her friend)
walked the stage as if she was carefully measuring
an allotment of land with her feet at an auction-
sale, and bobbed in her action like an empty
bottle foundering off Potts Point; or that Rose
(more friend) hadn’t much of a part, and didn’t
even know what to do with that little bit,
Mr. Pennyman, as Lord Thirlmere, made an
excellent impression and looked quite Charles
Ryley-ish with his head powdered. The elongated
Captain Fei'ding, A.D.0., made his maiden
plunge into Australian amateur theatricals as
Hopkins, a footman, and beyond achieving the
clumsiest make-up I ever saw in my life, did little
that was remarkable. A clever little boy as a
page gave promise of growing up into as histrioni-
cally good a butler as Major Leigh made. The
curtain-raiser was “Sunset” with almost the
same people, diversified by Mrs. Hotham, who
acted Aunt Drusilla quaintly and quietly, and
Captain Horace Dangar, whose Mr. Rivers was as
natural a stage papa as a big white waistcoat and
plenty to button it over could make it. Both
comediettas were fairly well set, and a string
orchestra played soft waltzes in the gaps.
I went to Alfred Dampier’s benefit and was
glad it was so successful. The beneficiary’s words
of gratitude somehow sounded far more con-
vincing than the usual sort of theatrical adieux.
Mr. Dampier has the gift of always sounding
genuine, and when he said “ I love Australia,”
everybody felt quite sure he meant it.
Bishop Smith is still in Europe, but the Sydney
cabman has many economists of the same thrifty
kink left to keep the episcopal tariff well before
him. For instance, an extremely wealthy Sydney
man, whose Gothic residence lies beyond the city
boundary, thus laid down the cheapest mode of
attack to a friend who meant to visit him ; “You
must take two cabs,” he said, “one to the
boundary—one shilling—then dismiss him and
take another on—another shilling. Be sure and
don’t take the one cab right on, for if you do
you’ll have to pay for half-distance back.” With
so many cheese-paring calculators on the market
tho mystery of a hansom-cab is certainly how they
all manage to get a living !
A Lady Oarington v. Lady Jersey dispute
threatens in the newspapers. Certain London
journals assert that voluble, Primrose-Leaguing
Lady J. talked herself into an equal popularity
with Lady C. as governoress of N.S. VV., but
other journals discover that Lady 0. was an ideal
leader of Australian society, and snorts at the
idea of anybody cutting out the favourite. As a
matter of fact, no Sydney Governor’s wife has
ever touched “Lily’s” record, and Lady C.’s
immense success was largely helped by her suave
and frothy lord and master, who courted the
hydra-headed public so assiduously and sported
the feathers and-wampum part of the vice-regal
hokey-pokey so untiringly that the mob thought
he was the genuine oil-painted article—much the
same as the gallery is only really convinced when
the stage-monarch is seen asleep with his crown
on. And “Lily” was the sort of madame who
would rather be “first among justices’ wives than
last among duchesses.” Her family temper occa-
sionally made some people feel that a brick had
fallen, but there were no fiasooes—not with the
“ mob,” at anyrate, whose vice-regal recommenda-
tion was the easy way they toppled over in loud
admiration. But when the Jerseys were signalled
the “best people” drew a long, relieved breath,
and said, “ Now, Guvmentouse will be fit to visit
again,” as they hailed the advent of a more con-
servative potentate.
But Lady J. was never really “ popular ” with
any section of the community—and she never
tried to be. She never even pretended that she
allowed anybody to really know her. Lady
Oarington was very pretty and had no brains, but
.she had a charming smile for everybody. Lady
Jersey didn’t smile on anyone, but, like her hus-
band, who also was never, and never could become,
popular in a vulgar sense, for he never played
down low enough, she everywhere left the impres-
sion of sincerity. Everyone recognised in her a
woman—most cultivated and clever —yet she shut
herself up within herself because Australian
society talked chiffons and had no new ideas about
Buddha or the Howness of the Which.
The Red Drawing-Room in Lady Jersey’s day
was a place to be entered very gingerly by a youth
with a monkey forehead, or a maiden whose
brains had all run into her chignon. Conversa-
tional “at-homes,” with hardly ever a dance
tucked in, pretty well cured the Society Johnny of
heading Government-housewards, and the high
mental pressure of M.E. J.’s little sprees kept the
clubs full to the brim seven nights in the week.
But the women stuck to the wheel and talked in
three syllables until their vocabularies fell through,
and then they sat still and tried to smile intellec-
tually till supper.
For M.E. J. had not the art of concealing her
intellectual greatness. She would favour poor
Mrs. de Potts Point with some scientific small
talk, and when that lady’s replies began to get
hysterical, M.E.J. would hop up on to her pedestal
again and freeze for the rest of the evening. And
there was too much of the lady of the manor about
her for democratic Australia. In speaking at a
crowded meeting she always made her audience
feel that she was astonished, but encouraged, to
see that the poor, helpless creatures had actually
washed for the occasion.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
. *♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “After Dark.”
Lyceum “ A Life of Pleasure.’*
Criterion “ As You Like It."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “ Ma Mie Rosette.”
Theatre Royal “The World Against Her.”
Alexandra “ Ally Sloper’s Night Out.”
Sydney Criterion re-opened on Saturday
with the gifted W. B. Spong as lessee. “As You
Like It,” in which Miss Hilda Spong assumed the
character of Rosalind, was the piece mangled on
this inauspicious occasion. The mangling was in
no way due to Miss Hilda herself—whose Rosalind
is a charming creation, full of grace, and altogether
a kissable maiden of ye olden time —but to the
deficiencies of the company. Harry Leston’s
Touchstone is the one bright performance. This
sterling actor never drops very low, even at his
worst, and as Touchstone he is nearly at his best.
Miss Flora Anstead makes only a respectable
Audrey, and Miss Aimee Mooreis a feeble Celia with
sundry good points about her, which seem to sug-
gest that she may do better in the future. The
next in the descending scale of reprobation is
Orlando Greenaway, and after him there is little
but flatness and desolation. ' The melancholy
Jaques’ beautiful lines only suggest that it must
be a truly awful thing to be a duke, and live in a
forest, and be struck on the head with such
orations at all hours of the day and night; but
further consideration of the duke shows that he
deserves it and more. Most of the other dukes
and lords and shepherds are equally depressing.
Also, towards the end, a horrible impression
begins to gain ground that Shakespeare himself is
an overrated institution. Mr. Spong has painted
some superb scenery for this production, but the
view of it is always being obscured by the exiled
lords getting in front of it, and it doesn’t get a
decent show in consequence. Altogether the in-
dications are that the Bard of Avon is going to be
cut off very short at the Criterion this time. Tom
Taylor’s comedy, “The Unequal Match,” is in
preparation, and it would probably be a wise pro-
ceeding to hurry it up before the principal shep-
herd gives way altogether at the knees and else-
where.
** * *
Dion Boucicault’s “ After Dark,” revived
at Sydney Her Majesty’s last Saturday, has
various merits, but cheerfulness is not one of the
most conspicuous thereof. Out of the 27 persons
—not counting “ policemen, passengers, tramps,”
&c. —directly connected with the story, not one
seems to enjoy a solitary gleam of happiness.
They are the most morose crowd on record or
elsewhere. G. Rignold, in the early stages of the
drama, is a wondrously tattered and unwholesome
sot, and is eminently acceptable in that capacity.
But about the second act he begins to think
remorsefully of his past, and thereafter he
periodically delivers long and harrowing speeches
about his resolve to swear off and become a decent
member of society. Mr. Plimmer is abjectly
miserable about a bill, and the ever-weepful Miss
Watts-Phillips throws herself over a bridge
and thereafter lives under an arch for three
weeks without a change of clothing. Even
the Jew who deposits the insensible form
of Mr. Scot Inglis—the only man with the
faintest shadow of cheerfulness about him—on
the railway-line doesn’t seem to enjoy himself, and
is clammy with terror most of the time; and the
other villains are gloomy and dejected. The
drama has no understandable end, for though
Messrs. Rignold and Plimmer and Miss Watts-
Phillips all appear clean and nicely-dressed in the
last act they have no visible means of support.
“ After Dark ’’ has plenty of vigorous action and
much brilliant scenery, but it is consistently
sombre all round; it is suggestive of dead leaves in
the autumn, and graveyards, and dank and
mouldy tombs, and the like. Mr. Rignold’s
drunk is a life-like and blotchy and exceedingly
realistic performance, and Messrs. Marsh,
Scot Inglis, Plimmer and Sterling Whyte do
good work in their various dark and cheerless
ways. Also, Miss Watts-Phillips makes an
interesting and tearful wife, and, as already
mentioned, lives for three weeks with a broken
heart under an arch. A person far gone in
consumption, who resides in a gin-case on a
bridge, has no direct relation to the rest of the
crowd, and need not be further described, and the
same remark applies to sixteen people without
boots. The play stops short at one place to make
room for sundry variety artists, two of whom,
Miss Emma Chambers and Mr. Steele, are a
blessed relief under the distressing circumstances.
«« * *
Alfred Darnpier’s benefit last Friday at
Sydney Royal was a memorable occasion. The
faded old theatre was crowded to the roof, and
“Robbery Und&r Arms” went with a howl of
success from beginning to end. This result was-
only attributable in a small degree to the drama-
itself, for “Robbery,” to tell the gloomy truth,
has been run very strongly in Australia of late
years, and would be none the worse for a rest; the
enthusiasm was mainly fur Dampier. At the end
of the second act the usual crowd of representa-
tive citizens turned up on the stage, and shuffled
anxiously with their feet, and didn’t know what
to do with their arms, and suddenly realised, in
an access of stage fright, that their hands were
several times larger and more unmanageable than
they ever were before. But they contrived,
through the medium of Trickett, M.L.0., to get
the facts off their combined chest, which facts
were that Mr. Dampier was a square, honourable
and universally-respected gentleman, that they
wished him all manner of prosperity, and
that the proceeds of the show were even
better than had been expected. Then Mr.
Dampier made a sympathetic speech .of
acknowledgment, in the course of which he had
the misfortune to wander into a digression con-
cerning the “resources of this great country and
the play proceeded. The departing actor’s last
misfortune comes in the shape of an address
which is to be presented to him at the Australia
Hotel to-day (Thursday), and after that he will
depart with a light heart and The Bulletin’s
best wishes for his welfare.
** * *
Bland Holt’s “Life of Pleasure” has taken
root at Sydney Lyceum, and Bland’s performance
on horseback, when he bounds over a river of real
water and tears away through the jungle for
assistance, grows more realistic now that the white
steed has settled down to his work. The insur-
rectionary niggers, who are mown down by the
Maxims and fall in neat rows, with their dead
faces to the sky and their wool in the footlights,
also create a pleasing sensation, and, as the advt.
eloquently remarks, they “ bring home to many
the awfulnbss of wab,” which is a pleasant
reflection, and one which may, perhaps, make
Premier Seddon a little less anxious than he was
to annex Samoa.
** * *
“Ma Mie Rosette ” seems a sure “go ”
atMelb. Princess’s, notwithstanding the lack of
ballet, and the fact that its most apparent
legs are appended to a baritone King. The gaudy
potentate in question has undoubted charms for
the ladies. They like his feline suavity, and are
impressed by the thought that his dainty paws
contain hidden claws. There is, too, a certain
rattlesnake fascination about his gleaming heye,
and altogether he suggests the kind of King from
whom they couldn’t run away if they wanted to.
Even Brownlow’s tragic stride and his ultra-his-
toric custom of standing for his picture, which
threaten to make him heavy in comic opera, are
advantageous in the present case. For “Ma Mie
Rosette ” is not a comic opera at all, but a roman-
tic story set to drawing-room music. Its occa-
sional attempts at humour are coarse and blue —
not a poetic royal blue like the love-passages
between Henri and Rosette, but a staring
cobalt that harmonises only with the minds of
those who laugh boisterously thereat. A little
colour has been washed out of the low-comedy
dialogue since the first night, but it is still a
cerulean satire upon the management’s awful
scruples as regards jokes which don’t come direct
from London, Howard Vernon, who impersonates
the shattered fragments of a military officer, is a
third comic character, of a milder type. He has
nothing to do beyond devoting his jagged remains
to the service of Miss Young, on the French
understanding that he “ may hope.” Florence,
in fact, dangles the “hope” bait before Vernon’s
one available eye that she may send him limping
upon secret missions, and when he asks for a re-
assurance of bliss in store the lady replies “Yes,
yes,” in the sharp, business-like voice of a merchant
ticking off an advt. canvasser.
• • •
But this, as we now remember, happens
only in Rosette’s vision—the wonderful dream
which includes matters that the rustic maiden had
no inkling of before she fainted. Evidently la
belle Rosette is Miss Nellie Stewart and a joy for
ever. Nellie looks, sings, and acts her part
delightfully. One takes this trusty artist as a
matter of course, nowadays, and her many first-
class points have no longer the force of novelty.
She should have been a fresh importation, making
her Australian debut as Rosette ! What a divine
frenzy we have missed ! Unhappily the throat of
the golden-wigged fairy troubles her again.
Although her warble rings clear and loud when
she is on duty, Miss Nellie had to rest two nights
last week, leaving May Pollard to take her place.
But she came down from Heaven, or wherever she
domiciles, again on Saturday to a crowded house.
«* * *
Melbourne Opera Club committed an
amateur performance of “The Gondoliers,” at the
Bijou, on Saturday night. As compared with
some other musical and dramatic failures, this was
a fair success, seeing that the company had not
{ireviously done the same deed in public. Oasilds
ooked promising, the two gondoliers and theii
wives made out a case for merciful consideration,
and nobody was as bad as an amateur can be—
which is intended as a doubtful compliment. The
great and ghastly error of these unnecessary pro-
ductions is their imitation of the professional
article. They are feeble reminiscences when they
might aim at bold originality. A lanky Duke of
Plaza-Toro, a podgy Grand Inquisitor, and a
general reversion of the old order of things would
give a certain zest to the outrage. The idea of
blacking their faces never strikes the members of
an opera club, although burnt cork is the only
kind of make-up they could do justice to. Under
the present system most amateur ladies take
infinite pains to add years of grease-paint to their
ages, and the alleged ancients of the crowd are the
only people who appear very young indeed. “ The
Gondoliers ” is likely to be repeated at an early
date, for the satisfaction of that grand old warrior,
* ‘General Request.”
** * #
Veteran Coppin’s run of luck at Melb.
Royal shows no signs of slowing down. “My
Jack,” the five-act shocker now in possession, was
built for popular prices, and all the efforts of a
hero who intones his share of the Litany can’t
■stay its victorious career for six nights only.
Features of interest crop up in “My Jack.” A
foreign blackmailer in a red flannel shirt is cleverly
presented by George Melville, also an antique pot-
boy, having aspirations to the hand of Polly Emery
because he loved her grandmother before her, is a
cheerful sketch. J. W. Sweeney, as a plump
sailor, distinguishes himself by a patriotic inten-
tion to expire on the throne of Ireland, whilst
Miss Williamson is the familiar foolish virgin who
might havespared herself aweight of woe by marry-
ing the villain in the first act. Each successive
melodrama is further evidence in favour of an early
marriage with the villain. He is the cleanest-


looking man in the show, as a rule —handsomer
than Charles Holloway—and his murderous
efforts to win the girl and secure the papers only
go to prove his sincerity. Therefore, The BUL-
LETIN calls upon future heroines to pair off with
the polished owner of the bell-topper and leave
the faithful but inferior hero to drown his morti-
fied spirit in the flowing bowl. Then there will
be no murders, no explosions of the lighthouse,
no irrelevant hoisting of the dear old Union Jack,
no anything except a prudent wedding at the
little village church, and a peaceful fall of the
curtain about nine o’clock. If they stick totheir
fell intention to cut off “My Jack ” in its busi-
ness prime, “The World Against Her ’* will be
produced on Saturday.
** * *
The Alexandra reopens on Saturday at
Dan Barry’s bidding. That resourceful manager
has arranged to resume his dramatic season with
a certain musical “extravagance,]’ bearing the
gruesome title of “ Ally Sloper’s Night put. It
sounds like a glorification of the dull British fiend
whose back numlpers are eating away the_ young
Australian intellect. On Saturday, likewise, the
Coghill Bros, shift from the Gaiety Hall into the
Bijou, so there will then be two _ Melbourne
theatres converted into palaces of variety.
*« * *
TO NELLIE.
Ma Mie Rosette,
Fairest and brightest
Vision of visions that eyes ever met!
Queen among stars in stage firmament set 1
Ma Mie Rosette,
Hearts thou delightest,
Love thou invites
Blame not the monarch who seeks such a pet,
Other kings’ morals are scarce of the whitest,
Ma Mie Rosette,
Ma Mie Rosette.
Ma Mie Rosette,
Waking or sleeping
Can we forget
All the sweet graces we noted whilst peeping
Through a lorgnette,
Ma Mie Rosette ?
Thy brown, silken hose, and scant costume in
keeping—.
Those eloquent arms!
We thought of like charms
Wooing the sunshine on Mildura farms,
Start our hopes leaping.
Ma Mie Rosette,
Can we forget!
Never, till Nature claims payment of debt,
And songless we lie ’neath the willow-tree weep-
ing,
Out in the wet
(A thing that we’d fain not have happen just yet),
Ma Mie Rosette,
Ma Mie Rosette.
Melb. Princess’s, June 1894.
At Poverty Point.
The Melbourne Temperance Hall people give weekly
lectures ; the audiences, as a rule, consisting of hard-
teatured, strong-minded women and their husbands, the
latter usually showing distinct traces of prolonged
lebauch and the consequences (black eyes, scratched
features, Ac.). Last week the lecture was on the
11 Colonial Wine Deception,” and the advts. notified that
the audience would be presented with sample bottles of
pure colonial wine—gratis. Had a dog-fight been an-
nounced Melbourne could not have responded more nobly.
The door* were to open at 8. By six, Russell-street was
impassable. Every beer-loafer in the city was stirred with
a consuming anxiety to learn the worst. To each of a
suffocating audience the lecturer presented a small bottle
of “ the very purest Yan Yean ” (corked), with strict in-
junctions that the bottles were not to be opened in the
hall. The lecturer did not wait outside to hear opinions,
but 9-lOths of that audience are anxious to interview him.
May Yohe, twitted over a noble lord, says she “ cares
no more for him than for Pontius Pilate on a bicycle.”
A sucking critic of a Melb. daily writes of Rosa Dunn
(Mrs. L. L. Lewis) as a promising amateur 1
Why will managers write "georgeous” in their advts.?
Even Musgrove does it, over Ma Mie Rosette. But per-
haps this means the work of George.
Mummer Bentley’s Melb. lecture, “Church and Stage,’
was hardly serious enough in tone to make an
but his anecdotes' were malicious—perhaps, though,
Chokerage might retort. He told of a meenister who
said, with reference to a call, that the voice of God
had not spoken to him but what was the stipend?
Another parson thought Bentley blacked his face
as a nigger minstrel—perhaps a vague idea about
Othello. For all that Bentley would have been happier
as a parson.
Dampier’s benefit at Sydney Royal “ panned out,” with
subscriptions, upwards of £250.
Mrs. Annie Besant leaves London July 20, to Join the
P. and O. Victoria for Australia.
H. H. Vincent, well-known in Australia as for long
stage-manager for W., G. AM., now manages at the St.
James’, London. His production of “ The Masqueraders”
the other day brought him a heap of kudos.
Brownlow has the features of the Kemble family. With
a darkened makeup, he is exactly like the portrait of
Chas. Kemble.
Flora Oraupner was billed for “the only time this
year,” Ryley’S benefit. Why thus?
Brownlow is more like Bentley than Ryley.
In “Ma Mie Rosette” the facial disguise of thebaritone,
Wallace Brownlow, is so elaborate that he will probably
look like another new man in his next opera part.
A Sydney showman was anxious to engage the released
convict, Bertrand, for a term for exhibition purposes,
Pattie Browne has suffered considerably from lung-
trouble since her residence in foggy London, and it was
illness of a similar sort that induced her young sister to
return to Sydney a few weeks back.
Among the Melb. society girls who danced the “ Vicar
of Bray” ballet without the ‘‘Vicar” were the Misses
Horsfall, whose eldest sister is Mrs. Rupert Carington.
“Buffalo Bill’s romantic yarn (says the Manor the
World) about the young woman he has been backing in a
theatrical venture, will have to be accompanied by a
sworn affidavit before it is of any real value for advertis-
ing purposes. He says that he found her on the plains, a
babe, the sole survivor of a murdered band of emigrants.
She says that he found her iii London, full grown and
blown. With this apparent discrepancy put right, the
young woman will be ready to star.”
“The best buckjumper ” is billed for a prize at a Melb.
suburban show.
A benefit is being organised in Sydney for Mr. Frank
Emery, who has of late had even worse luck than many
others of his luckless profession.
Wallace Brownlow, although not quite so Adonisian as
the departed Ryley, is already the idol of all Melbourne
femininity from 14 to 25, who gaze enrapturedly at the
King of Navarre’s photo, in the music-shops.
In Puccini’s opera, “ Manon Lescaut,” just staged at
Oovent Garden, London, 12 young ladies have to imper-
sonate courtesans, being shipped at Havre, for Cayenne.
Mme. Marchesi is god-mother of Amy Sherwin’a babyi
which has likewise got Madame’s name thrown in with
five or six others—“ Mathilde.”
Irving’s theatre is the Promised Land which some o‘
the ancient East London favourites get to before they die-
Tom Meade, who in his prime, delighted grimy
audiences in all sorts of characters, from Macbeth down
to the Vampire, finished his days at the Lyceum. And
now Miss M. A. Victor, who used to play the tunny old
woman in drama, or pantomime, at the Grecian theatre
(long since turned into a Harmy “ barracks ”), appears as
Martha in Irving’s revival of “Faust.” The Referee
says of her performance that “ she has cleverly caught
what may be called the tone of the house,” which really
means that the old girl isn’t putting too much ginger into
It.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Bank of South Australia —the awful con-
cern which amalgamated with the Union when it was
practically on its last legs— looks worse every time it is
heard from. The latest report is that there will be a
shortage of over £1,000,000, and that a call of £lO per
share is imminent “ to start with.” What kind of a call
there will be to end with no one knows.
♦ * * *
For several months past there has been a steady
demand for Melb. tram-shares on behalf of English pur-
chasers, and when that unhappy corporation gets out of
its difficulties it will probably be found that J. Bull has
bought up almost the entire concern at bed-rock prices.
When tram stock was quoted at about 30 times its
present figure the Australian investor had it practically
all to himself, but now that it is at zero the English
capitalist mops it up. The shares that go to England will
never come back except at enormously increased prices.
Money is cheap in England, and comparatively dear in
Australia, therefore, if a 5 per cent, investment sells
at 10s. in Melbourne it is generally worth 12s. or
15s. in London, where 5 per cent, is a much more
valuable consideration than it is here. The English
speculator buys at Australian rates, and if Aus-
tralia ever wants to get the property back it must
purchase at nearly 50 per cent, more in London. As the
natural result there is a constant drift towards J. Bull’s
country, and every year the amount of interest which
Australia has to pay on ‘‘foreign capital ” gets bigger.
The Melb. Gas Co.—like the Sydney Gas Co. —is mostly
an English concern now, and everything else is going the
same road.
The latest development of the curse of foreign
capital is the formation in London of a syndicate to buy
up deposits in Australian reconstructed banks. The
syndicate intends to confine its operations, however, to
the better class of banks - those which have a tolerably
certain prospect of surviving the storm. It is proposed
to invest £2,000,000 or so to begin with, and the pro-
moters hope to purchase at an average rate of about
16s. in the £. At this figure a lot more of British
money will come into Australia, and this country will
pay over 51 per cent, for it while it is here, together
with a bonus of £400,000 for the use of it when it finally
takes its departure. Probably a few more millions will
arrive in course of time at the same rate. Australia has
got the foreign-capital disease badly, and it assumes a
more aggravated form every day. The only visible
remedy is a ponderous tax on the absentee proprietor in
all his varied forms-on the absentee landlord, the
absentee shareholder, debenture-holder, depositor, specu-
lator—in short, on every kind of absentee that can be
imagined. Even the absentees who propose to work the
Cremorne coal-seams should be duly remembered.
A great part of the 4 per cent, loans recently
floated locally by the N.S.W. and Via Governments went,
almost without anyone being aware of the fact, to swell
the load of foreign capital. These two provinces could
probably have found the amounts required out of
their own resources had the foreign lender been shut
out, but he was not shut out. How much of
the money that was dumped down on the Treasury
counters was that of British speculators, acting through
local agents, no one knows, but considering how much
more anxious the Briton is than the Australian to find a
reliable 4 per cent, investment it formed probably a large
percentage. As tor the bonds which were purchased by
local investors, a vast proportion of them will also drift to
London in course of time. 'So long as the British investor
can buy Victorian 4 per cents, in Melbourne for
£lOl 15s. while the London price is £lO4, and
N.S. Wales 4 per cents, in Sydney for £lOl 55.,
while the London price is £lO3, the curse of foreign
capital will keep on increasing in Australia. Treasurer
Carter’s Credit Poncier scheme will only give the awful
incubus another boost. The funds for the Vic. Land
Bank are to be borrowed locally at 4 per cent., and lent
out to the agriculturist at 5 percent. But though the
bonds are sold in Melbourne they will mostly be bought
by the blessed absentee in the good old way, and another
£5,000,000 or so will presently be piled on to the country’s
indebtedness without anyone seriously noticing the
dismal circumstance. If there is any country which
wants an absentee-tax worse than Australia that country
must want it very badly indeed.
♦ * * •
Treasurer Carter (Vic.) proposes that the new
State Land Bank shall borrow money at 4 per cent, and
lend it out to farmers on the security of their lands, with
a5O per cent, margin, at 5 per cent. The difference of £1
per cent, is to pay for management expenses and provide
a fund for possible losses. On the continent of Europe
both these items are fully covered by a charge of ss. per
cent. The difference may be intended to create a revenue
for the State. Also—and much more probably—the Credit
Fonder is to provide good billets for many busted
bankers, and the difference is to pay their big salaries.
♦ * » *
Deposits in the reconstructed Freehold Invest-
ment Co. were sold in Melbourne, last week, at Is. 6d. in
the £. The “ restoration of confidence ” is having a
high old time, nowadays.
• • » •
It would make your hair stand on end to know
how many leading Victorian papers are now, more or less,
completely in the hands of the banks.
* * » *
It is said the commercial editor of the Argus,
the editor of the Banking Record and the Australian
correspondent of the Economist are a trinity in unity con-
sisting of one man. The Economist approves of what the
Argus thinks and the Argus swears by the Record.
Sometimes they contradict each other, but then no
trinity is ever perfectly unanimous.
• ♦ ♦ *
The N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. has
at last got through all its troubles, and the reconstructed
institution has resumed business at the old stand. In its
new form the Loan and Mercantile has a paid-up capital
of £1,380,000, and has £4,500,000 in perpetual debentures,
making a total capital of £5,880,000. The fact that the
debentures are perpetual, and that there will be no more
terminable deposits falling due at inconvenient seasons, is
a commendable feature ; how the 00. will pan out for the
benefit of its shareholders is eminently uncertain, con-
sidering the vast capital on which dividends have to be
earned, but so far as its customers are concerned it seems
to be as absolutely safe as anything here below well can
be. During the suspension the Loan and Mercantile’s
business has been conducted on its behalf by the N.Z.
Land Association, so that its valuable connection remains
practically unimpaired.
* * * -»
The tenth annual distribution of profits of the
A.M.P. Society has been brought to a close,.And the bonus
certificates were posted on 22nd June to members in all
parts of Australasia. About 118,000 certificates have been
issued, the amount of cash surplus being £448,790, yield-
ing reversionary bonuses of £910,000. Each separate
bonus represents the result of at least half-a-dozen dis-
tinct calculations, with a corresponding number of checks,
apart from the enormous task of arriving at and dealing
with the surplus “irt bulk.” In addition there has been
the clerical work of writing the certificates and wrappers,
and a large amount of transcribing. A special staff of
clerks and computers is kept at work throughout the year
in this department of the society’s operations alone. The
usual arrangements have been made for the prompt pay-
ment of cheques to such members as desire to receive
their bonuses in the form of cash.
« • * »
That unduly prominent parson, Rev. Alex.
Marshall, has made many depositors mad by stating that
Melbourne, as compared with Stead’s picture of Chicago,
is “nothing less than a city of the Kingdom of Heaven.”
Mr. Marshall seems to have a ready tongue for every social
question save that of Professional Piety in its bearing
upon the Land Boom.
* * ♦ ♦
A particular joke of the Speight v. Syme case is
the solemn way of treating instances in which Speight
cancelled a fine imposed for non-fulfilment of railway
contract within the specified time. Syme’s counsel shed
tears over these stories of penalties that would certainly
have made the Vic. railways “ pay ” if they had been
enforced. The Age, in its usual disinterested style, says,
“ One of the amounts which Mr. Speight cheerfully for-
gave a contractor was £232,485 liquidated damages.”
The joke aforesaid lies in the unblushing suggestion that
Speight could have collected these vast sums of money if
he had cheerfully sent for them. Events have proved
that the difference between remitting such penalties and
enforcing them could never have been of much im-
portance. As though any Melbourne firm could or would
nave ever dreamed of anteing-up a quarter of a million!
Does a representative Smellbourne merchant pay his
penalties upon share-contracts with busted companies ?
Having, at the instigation of the licensed
Victuallers Association, which quixotically want
the -trade” law-abiding and respectable refused
renewals to hotels addicted to Sunday trading and private
bars wherein gentlemen sit on ladies h«hi
screens, the Licensing Benches of Sydney should begin to
weed out “ tied ” houses. Several English Benches think
the “bound” publicans cannot comply with the pro
visions of the Act and are also independen
penalties having nothing at stake so t y
refused to grant “renewals.”
♦ * * *
Cabled demise : Curtayne, ex-manager of Melb.
Union Bank. While he, and M'Mullen, as inspector, held
the reins the foundation was laid of that prosperity which
weathered the storm. Nevertheless, they had tussles.
Just when they thought they had solved the problem of
squatto-banking there came the ferocious legal onslaught
of Degraves, the forerunner of many Privy Council
appeals, such as those of Kettle and Dalhmore. Another
swordfish that struck the bank in the Curtayne and
M’Mullen regime, was a case arising out of a clerk having
private loans out of trust documents. Curtayne was a
spruce banker, while plodding M’Mullen was regularly
taken for Peter Lalor.
* • • *
A CASE AT BLANKALONG.
A man’s claim is jumped ; he has not worked it.
Warden : Have you ever worked the ground 7
Answer : T cannot say. . . .
Warden: Have you ever made any windlasses or pioic-
handles or anything connected with claim ?
Answer : I cannot say. , ,
Warden : I do not wish you to say you have employed
physical force or manual labour. Have you ever done any
brain-work connected with the claim, or any business
work, say buying a shovel?
Answer : I cannot say.
Warden : Understand me rightly. Have you ever
thought or studied where the hole was to be, or how your
mates were getting on, or if the claim would eventually
be profitable?
Answer: Icannotsay. .... .
Warden : I regret that I am compelled to decide
against you. Personally, I think you are a . Next
case.
Crier: Snuff versus Dearman.
Scotty tub Wrinkler.
• • * *
About 1200 men reported at the new Garangnla
rush near Murrumburrah, N.S. W. So far no results are
published ; though it is thought fair wages will be made
by a few. The prospects were not good enough to detain
a number of visiting Wyalongers.
* ♦ ♦ *
The amount for which the United Jackets
claim, Canowindra, N.S.W., was traded off in^London—-
£lso,ooo—seems absurdly excessive. The working capital
is fixed at £30,000.
» • » *
The first crushing at Wyalong battery : 178 oz.
from 106 tons; the next is expected to be better still.
Work goes on steadily, with fair prospects in most cases.
At Bartley’s find, 4 4 miles from Wyalong, two good reefs
are opened, with plenty stone, and fair gold. The
country is harder than at Wyalong and needs explosives ;
but there are better signs of permanence.
« * * *
After all the blow to the effect that the Sydney
experts despised Tas. geologist Montgomery, the experts
aforesaid have had to practically agree with his con-
clusions—with the result that the unexpended balance
(£230) out of each £250 share subscribed is to be returned.
Israel has again been deceived by a bottle of gold—as in
the memorable N.S.W. case of a few years ago, when a
pickle-jar of the precious metal, said to have been
obtained from a spot where it was commoner than dirt,
conduced to the partial undoing of many smart men.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Many leading Sydney lawyers held interests in
Mount Huxley, and the easy way in which they were
dragged into the swim doesn’t exactly redound to their
business acumen. Lawyers are supposed to be hideously
suspicious people who want proof in support of every
statement made to them ; yet in the present instance a
gaudy fairy tale, such as the average monte man spins on
the racecourse for the purpose of “ taking down ” the
bush yokel, was sufficient to bring Sydney’s leading legal
talent down to the level of victims of the match-box trick.
As for the chief promoter, to whom no dishonesty is im-
puted, it is to be regretted that he did not make himself
acquainted with the antecedents of some of the hangers-
on of the alleged golden mount before he began his boom.
* * * *
Mr. Montgomery reporting on his second Mt.
Hoaxley visit, says that “ there was unmistakable evi-
dence of a second' salting process, as various places in the
tunnel not touched on his first visit contained specimens,
with fine gold showing freely, that had evidently been
deposited. He believes the salting had been skilfully
planned by master minds, and those in custody were
merely tools in the hands of others.” Wanted, the
name and address of “ the Master.” “ Master ” is a
good word. , » »
Sydney still laughs loudly at the wife of a
leading man who, in the early days of the Mount Huxley
boom, went about very loudly telling her friends of a
European trip she and her husband—who held an interest
in the “mine ’’—were going to take on theirdiv. of £lO,OOO
a year. Since her visions of wealth have dissolved into
thin air the poor, trustful little woman has wisely become
indisposed, and is likely to remain so until people have
stopped sniggering—which will be about five years’ hence.
* » * *
Editor Bulletin,—-Be Tasmanian Government
Geologist Montgomery being “an old-school geologist.”
He is an Otago University man, and one of Professor
(geologist) Black’s pupils. Montgomery had his first
innings at the Thames (M.L.), where he was lecturer at
the School of Mines. Salting seems to he a comparatively
new experience in Australia ; Montgomery was in the
thick of it at the Thames. I should have thought the
“ Green Harp ” and “ Waihou ” swindles were of world-
wide fame. The Tas. salters tackled a bad mark.—Maori-
land Babe.
* ♦ ♦ *
The incident of the week at Ooolgardie has been
the sheriff’s seizure of Cosgrove’s Bayley’s South mine
for a private debt said to be owing in Melb. by the co.’s
manager, Mr. Cosgrove. The 00. is bringing a £20,000
action to relieve its wounded feelings. Meanwhile, the
sheriff is warned that he must fulfil labour conditions,
and a small army of men prowl round watching for a
breach of regulations. It would be sweet to jump a
sheriff’s claim.
* * » *
Westralia, with a population of 70,000, and her
best known goldfields in their infancy, is turning out
12 OOOoz. of gold per month, or nearly 150,0000 z. per
annum. N.S. Wales, with miles upon miles of well-known
and proved- auriferous country and nearly 50 years of
mining experience, backed up with millions of capital,
only yielded about 170,0000 z. in ’93.
* * * *
During ’93, Melb. mint received 693,218<3z. gold.
* * » »
The English syndicators’ “ living ” is very much
in evidence out West. They travel in state and regard
the whole thing as a picnic. Empty pate de foie gras
tins &0., mark the locale of their nightly camps, and
when they reach a pub. their stay is long and hilarious.
They are always after properties, which they seldom
appear to get. A miscellaneous sale of new-ohum effects,
including multi-coloured tents, &0., is the inevitable
result. . „
* ♦ ♦ *
The Bayley’s Reward people do nob trouble the
banks with their gold. They arrive in Melbourne once a
fortnight with about IOOOoz., and take it direct to the
Mint or to the smelters.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
An esteemed correspondent writes The Bul-
letin from the Malay Peninsula; —“ Mining seems to have
turned the corner here. The three companies at work
are now all making regular returns. April crushmgs—
Punjom, 1100 tons, 4760 z.; Malayan Concession, 310 tons,
2560 z. ; Raub (three months’ clean-up), 1100 tons, 700o_z.
There are, doubtless, many other encouraging things in
the country, bub the dense jungle and heavy outlay pre-
vent systematic prospecting.”
* * * •
A starving man gob seven days at Goulburn
(N S W.) recently for stealing a loaf of bread. Of course
he had a Govt. Labour Bureau miner’s right in his pocket.
“Gratifying accounts continue to reach the Bureau from
the large number of men sent away from Sydney to
prospect in the country districts.”
■* ♦ * ♦
Editor Bulletin, —The meanest man in Wya-
long to date is the publican who snatched the pannikin of
water from a man's hand as he was drinking, and poured
it into the tank again. The boor devil had spent his fetf
shillings with him the day before and his coppers were
hot. Water selling at a penny a gallon here.—J.A., Wya-
long West.
* • * *
Ravenswood (Vic.) returns for May—l3s6oz.
will make many an old miner sigh, and yet this miserable
return is recorded by the local paper “ as a great improve-
ment on the preceding months of the year.” lohabpdl
* » ♦ ♦
“Jimmy” Thomson, late of Melb. Evening
Standard, starts a bi-weekly, the Murchison Times,
directly, at Cue, W.A. He originally visited the field in
the interests of Melb. Age.
* « » *
The present manager of the Day Dawn, the
biggest or best-boomed thing on the Murchison, raises
the ire of his employes by whistling for them when he
wants them.
* * » *
The Day Dawn (Murchison) battery of 10 head
is now working smoothly. The reef at water-level is 17ft.
wide ; stone being raised averages IJoz. per ton.
* » * *
There are many and grievous complaints of the
unnecessary delay of teams whilst on the way from
Mullewa to Cue (200 miles). The roads are good, ana
water plentiful, yet the charge for carriage is 124 per ton .
» » * *
Splendid stone has been sent down to Adelaide
from the old “ Bismarck ” claim, Mingary, S. A.
* » » *
The Orregum 00., Mysore, India, won GoOOozs.
for the last month of ’93. Divs. for the year £165,000.
* * * *
At the Waihi mine, Karangahake, M.L.,
cyanide is in full blast. The plant is the largest of its
kind in the Australias though likely to be eclipsed by the
big Croydon one. For the 28 days ending sth May, 1633
tons were treated for £4500 bullion.
* » * *
Day Dawn (W.A.) township, with a population
of some 500, is entirely without police protection. At
Cue there are some of the smallest “numbers of the
foorce ” ever seen—6ft. lin., for instance.
» ♦ * »
In 1856, about 3,000,0000 z. of gold, valued at
£11,000,000, were raised in Victoria. Given a similar
yield next year, the increase alone on the present output
would be sufficient to pay of! the accumulated provincial
deficit and the year’s interest on all public loans, still
leaving a handsome margin. Amen 1
* • • ♦
The new Hobart whaling barque, Helen, a few
weeks out on her first cruise, was recently under Huon
Island (Tas.) trying out a large whale. Most of the
Helen’s whaling-gear, such as try-pots, &c., were obtained
in Sydney, and her large crew includes several hands
shipped from the same port.
The .£55 of unauthorised silver shillings sent to
Melbourne were probably made in Germany, where
thousands of pounds worth of bogus English coin is ex-
ported yearly for circulation. The coin is so cleverly
made that even the British authorities can’t tell t’other
from which! At the present price of silver it pays a dis-
honest die sinker (to cut his dies, erect his stamper and
use the best of silver) about 40 per cent, net profit in
every silver coin he manufactures!
» » * »
Before Mt. Lyell Railway Committee, in Tas.
Assembly, Mr. Montgomery, Government Geologist, said,
in reply to a question as to whether any other mines
besides Mt. Lyell were likely to be benefited by the con-
struction of the Lyell railway, that the North Mt. Lyell
and Idaho mines were likely to become valuable. The
North had already developed a body of rich copper
pyrites at the surface, and since Mr. Montgomery made
this statement the Co. has tunnelled through baryta and
rubellite.
* * • ♦
On dit that the Mt. Lyell Co. has proved the
rich ore to live down pretty deep. A good thing for it
this wasn’t known while its Bill was before the Parlia-
mentary Committee.
• • • •
Recent Q. crushings : Gympie—South Glanmire
and Monkland, 370 tons, 2570 z.; Great Eastern 1 South,
405 tons, 2210 z., div. 3d. Towers—s West Day Dawn,
122 tons, 1750 z.: Brilliant Central, 288 tons, 4230 z.; Bril-
liant Block, 746 tons, 820 oz. ; Papuan, 360 tons, 9850 z.
retorted : Craven’s Caledonia, 225 tons, 5500 z., div. 3d.
« ♦ ♦ ♦
Supposing geologist Montgomery had not
“blown the gaff,” would the report of one, at least, of
those Sydney experts have been as discouraging as it
turned out to be ? Hey 1
♦ ♦ * •
Some day the Broken Hill sulphides will be
treated by a simple and economical method, and there
will be another boom. But not yet. All the shares have
yet to be unloaded in London. When that is done, o«re
fine morning it will perhaps be announced that the
carbonate ore will only last a few months. After that
there will be a big general scoot and a shut-down
of the mine. There will be a panic amongst the
London holders. The shares will recede to nominal
prices. The Melbourne crowd will buy them up, and then
the sulphide question will be solved.
All the present concentrating experiments with
the sulphides are costly shams. It is well-known that the
zinc sulphides can be separated from the lead sulphides
by reason of their less specific gravity, but it is also
well-known that when they are separated they carry with
them equal silver values, and it is further known that the
slimes carry higher silver values than either.
When the problem is solved, it will be found
that the method adopted will be to first attack the zinc
by aeheap solvent, and when that is leached, precipitated
and put into marketable form, the residue will represent
a very simple smelting proposition, and every expert will
say, “I told you so.”
* • » •
It will be interesting to know that a silver-
smelting water-jacket furnace has been in constant blast
at Dry Creek works for over two years. The jackets are
of cast-iron, and they are apparently as sound as the day
the furnace was blown in two years ago. Good water
and careful handling is the cause of the longevity of this
furnace. One time on the Hill jackets used to break
every day, and a few weeks’ run with a smelter without a
shut-down was looked upon as good work.
« • * *
“Oxide” writes to S.M. Herald to say that
he has roasted 200 tons of pyritous stone in wood kilns and
got every grain of gold out, putting it through the battery
after roasting in the ordinary way. The cost is about Bs.
a ton for roasting, ss. for wood, and 3s. for carting a short
distance away to get rid of fumes. The plan, he says,
answers splendidly, and his conclusion is that if the gold
is visible chlorination is a waste of money.
The N.S.W. Parliament was dissolved
last Monday ; the general election is fixed for 17th
July. As all the polls are taken on one day a
good deal of the usual misery will be saved, and
the upheaval will only last about three weeks,
instead of two months or so as formerly. The
dissolution arrived a fortnight before it was ex-
pected, and the Foreign-trade party is now busy
writing to the papers to point out that indecent
haste has been shown, and that the proceeding
is a “discreditable trick.” The reason argued
for the sudden break-up is that a shearers’
strike seems imminent, and that it is inadvis-
able to have a labour convulsion going on
during the election. Another way of putting
it is that a labour convulsion seems imminent,
and as the Dibbs Cabinet is good at putting
down labour convulsions, and has shown
great sagacity in picking out the best place
at which to try the ringleaders and make their
conviction dead sure, the law’n’order party
will probably rally round the Cabinet with
enthusiasm just now. Meanwhile, there are about
1000 candidates—mostly aldermen-in the field,
and more aldermen are rolling up daily, and
Premier Dibbs is trying to make his voice heard
above the din at Tamworth with comparatively
limited success.


Has ever anyone seen a knock-kneed
Chinaman ?
THE “ORLANDO WALTZ”
—BY—
MAUD FITZ-STUBBS.
“ A worthy successor to this clever writer’s Popular
HEATHER WALTZ.’ "—Vide Press.
Both Waltzes selling in Thousands I Send for them.
ALL MUSIC-SELLERS.
[TEd I n bu rcrvj
W ■LejgVi.y
The Old, Blend
Whisky
nmcriT FROM DISTILLERS.
rtiUM'HI I
ii'finiii
iw
Kliiii
Nsdlllffi
Wl
iii»
ml 1111 1.l 11 <»,. ~X%%, ll (Ml i M.u v.ij i.W.* l
4 ..■f-f ft'i'i'ii'-'ii ittt IWI I
ran
m
'.Y’ZsK'
mm
WA
W
MM I
•iyi»
ilfeki
linn]!!
Mill
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
WATrnirr
MMIu
WHISKV
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Ni.yv.ics
Personal Items.
Some of Randolph Bedford’s clever short
stories are to be published in book-form by a Lon-
don firm.
W. M‘Lean, Baptist J.P., Melb., just
resigned, was General Booth’s host —in his man-
sion, of course.
Miss Melian Stawell, whose Socialistic
advocacy has been lately attracting southern atten-
tion, is the “ M.S.” of the Leader.
Apropos of several things: A French writer
insists that the Lady Audley type, little blonde,
was that of Lucrezia Borgia and Brinvilliers.
Vincent Pyke being now dead, J. D. Wood
and James Service are the only remaining mem-
bers of the Nicholson (Vic.) Ministry of 1859.
“Tom” Loader, Minister for Railways
(Vic.), in Richard Heales’ “People’s Ministry,”
35 years ago, was seen on the Sydney Block the
other day.
A recently-ennobbled Australian first came
into notoriety through playing the fiddle to
attract customers to his father’s public house bar
in a country town.
The Australian sculptor, Mackennal, gets
a big London advt. His group of Circe is ex-
hibited at the Royal Academy, but with red
drapery over some ungrundyesque parts.
The three Judges of the S.A. Supreme
Court are in fear and trembling lest one of their
number should be retrenched. By the irony of
fate the Judge likeliest to go is the only poor man
of the trinity.
It is not generally known that Isaac Pit-
man, the inventor of the phonetic shorthand used
by nine-tenths of English writing reporters, and
who has lately undergone the ignominy of being
knighted, is a Hebrew by blood.
W. T. Carter, M.L.A. for Williamstown,
Vic., has again been fined for refusing to have his
latest baby vaccinated. Carter is a martyr in the
anti-vaccination cause. He declines to have his
issue impaired by the insertion of objectionable
matter.
A certain Sydney paper made a great effort
to get Bertrand to write it a few columns of his
experiences, but the little man, who knew all
about the rag, replied loftily: “No; my cell is
yours, or ought to be, but not my brains.
Depart!”
Coroner Ghoul, of Melbourne, seems to
take considerable pleasure in relating that he has
just inquested the body of a young man who
suicided in the Yarra, and whom he, Richard
Ghoul, as a doctor, brought into the world 28
years ago.
Allan Btli, one of the first farmers to
settle in S. A.—he won the gold medal for wheat
; t the London Exhibition of 1851, and at Paris
aiterwards —died, the other day, aged 77. He
once received ,£3OO for 300 bushels of wheat from
a local miller. Now 2s. is the price.
The late Paddy Kenna, of Orange (N.S.W.)
used to bank with the Commercial in the days
when that institution was locally managed by a
cold-water crank, since dead. When Kenna,
publican and money-lender, visited the bank to
pay in, the manager would gingerly handle his
cash, and as he counted would exclaim, “ More
blood-money 1 More fools’ pence !” &c. Paddy
stood this a little while, but one day he stepped in
with a cheque and “lifted” nearly .£20,000.
Down South, years ago,
a man was being tried at
Circuit Court for stealing
and killing a cow, and the
late Ed ward Butler defended.
The hide and feet were miss-
ing, but all the beef, which
weighed 7001b5., was found.
The head (skinned), with the
horns on, was also found,
and duly produced in court.
The horns were remarkably
small for a 7001 b. cow, and
were all that the witnesses
for the prosecution could
swear to, which, however,
they did with a vengeance.
Jim Fredericks, a soft-
spoken, straight - haired,
boundary - riding cornstalk,
had just concluded his
evidence in chief —having
sworn positively to the horns
—and was looking sheepishly
round the court for his hat,
when up jumped Butler.
“ Do you mane to tell me,”
said the big Queen’s Coun-
sel, as he bounced the cow’s
head down upon the bar-
risters’ table, “that a baasb
with such foine small horrens
as thase could possibly weigh
seven hundredweight?”
“Yaas,” drawled Jim;
“ a-n-d w-e h-a-v-e a p-o-l-e-y
c-o-w o-u-t a-t t-h-e s-t-...-
t-i-o-n t-h-a-t w-i-1-1 w-e-i-g-h
f o-u-r-t-e-e-n h-u-n-d-r-e-d. ”
Then they called for “ Soil-
ence in the Coort,” and the
cow-stealer got five years.
The wife of Sylvester
Browne (Bayley’s Reward)
presented him with twins
last week. Some men are always striking it rich.
Mr. Sincock, secretary of the Victorian
Women’s Franchise League, is a solicitor practising
in Little Collins-street. Unlike Marshall Lyle
(Deeming’s defender) be can hardly speak two
consecutive sentences without becoming confused,
but his heart is thoroughly in the cause.
The temptation to say smart things is
always strong with Premier Kingston (S.A.).
Said Works Minister Jenkins, in a recent conver-
sation : “And so I stood, robed in a garb of
native modesty.” “ Ah,” remarked his chief, a
study of the nude.” The cruelty of the retort is
in its application, for Jenkins was once a book-
agent, and retains all the characteristics of the
species.
An “ Eminent Australian ” habitually
sends back to the Post-offioe letters delivered at
his house if any initial of his title be omitted from
the superscription. The “K ” was lately omitted
and the great man wrote to the P.M.G. stating
that he knew no O.M.G. with “ that surname.”
The Argus’ own Jeames, M.D. :
Royal relationships and intermarriages are not very
easy to keep track of. Those persons, mostly middle-
class, who can tell you the exact names and public per-
formances of all the Queen’s children, grandchildren,
nephews, nieces and cousins never can do anything else.
Mark Twain’s insolvency as a book-pub-
lisher is attributable to his fad for buying machines
which promised to set and distribute type at a
nominal cost. Every inventor these last ten years
found a soft spot in Mark, a large proportion of
whose assets consists of machines that won’t work.
Parkes arranged to go “ ’Ome ” with
Archibald Forbes on the occasion of the war-
correspondent’s last visit. “ What is Parkes
going for?” somebody asked Forbes. “Needy
old chap,” was the reply ; “he wants to float
another company.” This lie is condensed from
the English.
Parkes has traded on his early struggles,
that sixpence, the Kiama Ghost, Federation
Foreign-trade, Gladstone, Tennyson, his hair, hi*
broken leg, his breadless ’ome, his perilous vicinity
to the grave, and now his gag is the plea
“Hi ham haytee years of haige.” But he’s really
only just turned 79.
It is charged against Playford, Bray’s
successor in the S.A. Agent-Generalship, that,
before his departure for London, he publicly
asserted in a crowded coffee-house that “ Bray is
nothing but a drivelling idiot;” and because of
this indiscretion some very hot things have been
said in the local Assembly.
Premier Dibbs had a public holiday pro-
claimed at Parkes (N.S.W.) on the occasion of the
visit to that town of Dibbs’ most vindictive poli-
tical rival —Henry Parkes. Could the latter ever
have risen to a reciprocal acclivity of personal
magnanimity—or to as broad-minded-looking an
electioneering dodge ?
Dear Bulletin, —You ask if there is any
blind member of an Australian Parliament other
than M'Kenzie, M.L. A., of Victoria. M‘Gregor,
M.L.C., a new-elected S.A. Labour representa-
tive, is practically sightless—through an old-time
accident. News has to be read to him, and his
writing is invariably done by an amanuensis.—
Yours, W.
An English music-hall item :
Mr. George Beauchamp has secured one of the late
Lord Ailesbury’s remarkable check suits, and is having
an appropriate song written for it.
What sort of song will be appropriate to _ the
second-hand check suit of a soddened British
peer, who spent most of his time having jim-jams
in a rat-pit?
The N.S.W. hangman, when not engaged
in man-butchering, works as a gardener and
knockabout man for the Sheriff in the Criminal
Court grounds. The other day, seeing a Crown
prosecutor struggling to get into his overcoat, he
politely volunteered to help it on. “It fits you
well about the neck, sir,” remarked the man-slayer.
Every man to his trade.
The Duke of York has written asking for
a complete set of S.A. postage-stamps for his col-
lection. He does not, however, hint at a willing-
ness to pay for them. By the way, a complete
set of old N S.W. postage-stamps—one of the sets
long preserved by the N.S.W. Govt., was presented
HE CAME TO MELBOURNE.
CHEERFUL MAC: “Eh mou, how can ye expect to sell your soap
these bad times?”
N OTABLE HAWKER: “My friend, this soap is warranted to remove
all stains from the character, and it ought to sell freely.”
by a certain gallant politician to Miss Walenn,
Lord Carington’s governess, before she left Aus-
tralia. It was a handsome present—worth a
hundred or two —and will help to draw closer
those silken bonds.
G. V. Brooke’s friend, Nesbitt, lies buried
in Geelong cemetery, and his grave is marked by
a touching tribute from his old crony. But, like
the last resting-places of most of Australia’s chil-
dren of genius, it is neglected—the inscription is
almost weatherworn away, the fence is dilapi-
dated, and desolation haunts the spot. Meantime,
the public art-galleries of the various provinces
are lumbered up with pictures and busts of
K.O. M.G.’s and similar rubbish, while hardly an
Australian writer, poet, or actor is represented.
In Melbourne Gallery, O’Shanassy, Berry, and
others of their kind are represented, while
Higinbotham, Marcus Clarke, and Gordon are, so
far as the shoddy collection is concerned, obh-
vionised.
Another instance of an Australian poli-
tician who politely declined to be branded. When
John Gordon Chief Secretary of S. A.— presided
over the Postal Conference in Adelaide some
years ago, he was asked if he would take a
C.M.G.-ship. He knew better, but, had he. been
wiser, he would have advertised his refusal, now
for the first time made public.
BEEN HAD "EEORE.
WIRE-PENCER: “Hey, Mr. P’he[?]u, how much yer chargu for
them ’lectoral rights?”
BOBBY: “Haven’t you signed yet?”
WIRE FENCER: “No, I hain’t.”
BOBBY: “Well, then, come on and sign it.
WIRE-FENCER: “No, you don’t: no more of them f[?]ls for
me.”— (Walks off.)
Parkes’ assertion that Queen Victoria con-
ferred upon him the highest honours she could,
barring a peerage, is much discounted when one
remembers that the civil K.C.B. is considered by
Englishmen a far superi . distinction to the
Michael and George order, the latter being
reserved generally for “colonial” vulgarians
retired butchers, bakers, and grocers.
Pressmen loved Bray, S. A.’s dead Agent-
General, because he was always good for “ pars,’
and he owed much to the fact. There is one story
about Bray which will illustrate his character.
When defeated by Playford years ago, after being
long in office, a Register reporter rushed him
with the question, “ What are you going to do
now, Mr. Bray ?” Johnny scratched his head and
looked really intellectual, whereupon the reporter
produced four notebooks and three pencils. “ I’m
going to bed,” said Bray, and vanished. This is
not a very brilliant yarn, but Premier Bibbs
thought it good enough to father upon himself
awhile ago. By the way, was it Lord North or
Alexander the Great who said this first? In-
formation as to the earliest user of the joke will
be thankfully received, provided correspondents
don’t go further back than, say, 740 8.0.
“ Honest ” John M’Kenzie, M.H.R., ad-
dressing a portion of his constituents in a little
Maoriland village called Hampden before lovely
woman obtained her “rights,” was asked by a
lean, milk-drinking sort of parson if he supported
“female franchise?” “Of late,” replied burly
John, “so many ladies have graced my meetings
that I can hardly object, and I have never found
that they asked embarrassing questions.” “The
only reason I asked,” said the parson, in a very
nasty tone, “ was that the member utterly ignored
the ladies present, by addressing the audience
simply as ‘Gentlemen.’” “I believe,” retorted
Mac., “that I began with ‘Ladies and Gentle-
men,’ but, from the force of long habit, I even-
tually fell into the old style of simply ‘ Gentle-
men,’ and were the rev. gentleman in my position
I have no doubt that, before long, he would find
himself addressing you as ‘Dearly Beloved
Brethren.’ ”
Another “ vouched-for ” Tyson story. A
man walking along the track on Claverton station,
Q., camps at a dam near the homestead for his
mid-day meal. After placing his quart on the
fire, he proceeds, out of pity, to release some
lambs that had got stuck in the mud. Returning
to the fire he finds there a man no better dressed
than himself, with whom he shared his tucker,
remarking in the course of the meal that there
was no chance of tucker at the station as it
belonged to “Hungry Tyson.” After much
urging, he consents to call at the homestead. On
arrival he found his late guest to be none other
than Tyson himself. He got a job and ultimately
became an overseer on one of Tyson’s Queensland
stations.
In a sheep-stealing case
recently heard at Invercargill
(M.L.), the name of one
Smith was frequently men-
tioned in the evidence. A
reporter, anxious to get a
complete understanding of
the case, presently pulled a
barrister by the sleeve and
asked in a husky aside:
“Who’s this Smith?” “John
Smith,” whispered the bar-
rister, and the applicant was
perfectly satisfied.
“ Ouida,” the novelist,
was introduced to an Ameri-
can lady recently, and re-
sented it. “I hate Ameri-
cans,” she said, loftily. “I
don’t know why you should,
then,” said the Murkan
female ; “ they’re about the
only people who read your
shameless books.” Ouida
was so pleased at the prompt
retort that she squeezed the
Yankee woman against her
gaunt and attenuated bosom,
and out her with her bones in
eight places.
Ac a meeting of some
200 boys at Lyttelton (M.L.),
last week, someone wrote on
a board the names of six
famous men—Howard, the
philanthropist; Gladstone,
Livingstone, Stonewall Jack-
son, Johnel Sullivan, and
Searle, the sculler—and took
a vote as to which was the
greatest man of the lot. Out
of 200 votes the broken-
nosed pugilist got nearly 140,
and Searle got most of the
balance. Howard, Glad-
stone, Livingstone and Stone-
wall Jackson were nowhere.
Sergt. Middleton, who
pluekily captured Frank
Gardiner at Fog’s Farm,
N.S,W., is now in Sydney,
in very precarious health.
Duringthe encounter with
Gardiner (who subsequently
escaped from the custody of
Constable Hosie) Middleton
was shot through the jaws.
He never completely reco-
vered, and the wound, after
30 years, has developed a
malignant character. The
sergeant has been living in
retirement at Orange for
a-quarter of a century.
Sydney Daily Telegraph has reached
that stage in the liquor-traffic discussion which
makes the writing of an article for its lead-
ing columns the most exacting piece of jour-
nalistic jugglery extant. Under which King
Bezonian —whisky or lemonade ? The answer
comes—whisky and lemonade. It is a revolting
thing to have to grovel on your stomach to the
loud-mouthed teetotallers, the Italian-greyhounds
and rabbits of humanity, and at the same time to
keep your eye on the big grog-advertising interest.
Wasted Money.
It is simply wonderful in an enlightened age like
the present, how people will waste their money on
useless medicines. There are thousands of suf-
ferers in this country from liver torpidity, indi-
gestion, kidney complaint, and biliousness, who
pay half-crowns for so-called “cures,” when they
could get far better and safer results from half an
ounce of Epsom salts costing one half-penny. Of
course we know this chemical will not give per-
manent results—neither will any of the many
advertised nostrums—but it will give temporary
relief and not injure the system, whereas the
disguised drastic purging mixtures sold by many
quacks will cause many serious diseases. Clements
Tonio does not cure or relieve by purging. It is a
natural tonic restorative, and acts by stimulating
the digestive and secretive apparata to perform
their proper functions. It rebuilds wasted nerve,
bone and muscular tissue, restores strength to the
debilitated system, excites and permanently
strengthens the power of concupescence and
ensures a long, happy, and enjoyable life as proved
by the experience of Mrs. J. K. Hawthorne, Star
Hotel, South Gundagai, who writes on June 24th,
1893 About six months ago I was a severe
sufferer from violent pains in the small of the
back. I was informed that my kidneys were
affected. I tried various remedies, but not being
benefited by them I was induced to try Clements
Tonio, I took either five or six bottles, and was
throughly relieved of my old complaint, the pains
disappeared, and I have never had a recurrence of
them since, in fact, I have found it unnecessary
to take any other medicine since taking your
valuable Clements Tonic. Advising those who
have been afflicted as I have to try Clements
Tonic, as I am sure from my experience that it is
one of the best medicines extant. —I remain, yours
sincerely, Mrs. J. K. Hawthorne, Star Hotel,
South Gundagai, N.S.W.


< s' v - rv - r v/V r VA-
■jIfTFmCT.
DTOCTgI
<3-0 TO HELL-
-IGO LAN I) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Ort.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN &. CO.,
74 ELISABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHEAT IS XT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members tor being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got for sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you ? Will you do your business at
JJ ° R 33 E RN ’ S ?
ANTHONY HO It HERN'S ?
0T SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY IS!
JiUY EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dtvell in the country, you
may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived, in town.
ONLY ADDRESS op the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS :
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
JH AY MARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
EIGHT POUND ALLOTMENTS.
Each Purchaser will receive FREE PARCHMENT
DEEDS (free of all cost whatever), prepared by Stephen
and Ickbrson, Solicitors, 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
91 LOTS ALREADY SOLD !
DALLE Y E STATE,
MANLY BEACH.
Sydney’s Favourite Watering-place.
10/- Deposit. 5/- Monthly. No Interest. Free Deeds
on conclusion of payments.
Cheap Fares—6d. Return by Old Co.; 9d. by New Co.
Mr. E. A. Bonney, licensed under R.P. Act, has pre-
pared a report for the guidance of intending investors.
Sent post free.
Free plans to any address from
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, 301 Pitt-st., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Federation is in the hair, and in the hair
only.”—Parkes.
Reid has his window-pane on the N.S.W.
Premiership and his blind eye on Parkes.
Concentrated on the S. A. Assembly Opposi-
tion benches are the four principal long-winded
orators of the House.
In Maoriland all the telegram forms are
presented to the Govt, by advertisers who use the
reverse side to push their wares.
When the new loan of £1,600,000 becomes
a fact interest will absorb about 32 per cent, of
the present Westralian revenue !
Punch M'Kinley has delivered another
speech—the second in two years—in Vic. Assem-
bly. His swan-song is due in one year more.
S.M. Herald beseeches the surplusage of
N.S.W. Freetrade candidates to “come to reason-
able terms.” In other words—“ How much ?”
Master Bobby Henpeck : “ Papa, what is
a bachelor?” Papa Henpeck: “A bachelor, my
son, is a man to be envied ; but don’t tell your
mother I said so.” —Ex.
The latest political map of Africa, showing
the conflicting interests of European grabbers,
makes it clear that all the country now left to the
poor African is the Sahara.
Up to date five N.S.W. country editors
have been shifted till the elections are over. “We
want solid party advocacy ” is the explanation
which accompanies the holiday receipt.
Parkes asserts in his lofty fashion that he
has had no time to read the details of Dibbs’s
Federation proposals. From this it would seem that
baby Cobden must be getting some new teeth.
Gormly, M.P., the Australian native with
a thick Irish brogue, is unopposed at Wagga.
Dibbs fled before him, and even the dauntless
little Rae beat a stately retreat towards Junee.
Choice morsel from leading Government
organ in Centralia :—“ The Ipswich victory for
the Labour-party was due to the intense selfish-
ness of the working classes of that town.” Jnet so.
In Vic. Assembly, last week, Shiels alluded
to James Beef Patterson as “my honourable
friend.” “ Leave out the friend!” said Patterson.
Then Shiels left out both the friend and the
honourable,
Ex-Minister Unmack (Q.) : As a business
man I should not hesitate for one moment to join
any powerful and properly constituted syndicate
for the purpose of leasing our railways.” Good
i Id Sauerkraut!
Parkes claims that Dibbs’ latest Federation
attempt is a plagiarism of an old idea of his.
Mark Twain says the Deity built the universe
from plans by Michael Angelo. But Mark Twain
hasn’t met Parkes.
Under the Robertson Land Act of 1861,
only one person was sent to gaol for dummying,
and that person was convicted because he con-
fessed. Yet there have, in N.S. Wales, been
thousands of dummying cases.
Understood that Gov. Robinson is favoured
by the Kingston Govt, as a successor to Kintore,
if a Governor must be appointed. Salary could
then be lowered to £3OOO. This view of matters
is being pressed upon the Imperial Govt.
Some people in Victoria have lately earned
r spect for themselves by resigning (voluntarily,
one supposes) what are called honourable positions.
Other people, meanwhile, have proved that such
positions are not really honourable by sticking to
them.
The European Mail of May 2 suggests
that Parkes should leave the_ eastern provinces,
“in which he is being subjected to so much
indignity in his old age,” and go and be Premier
of Westralia ! The European Mail was always
unfriendly to Westralia.
If the Rosebery Government carries its
proposed succession-duties the Duke of West-
minster’s estate, when he goes to sleep with his
gilded forefathers, will pay the State something
like £1,300,000. The miserable heir will then
only have about £16,250,000 left.
Interviewed by the Register, Burgess,
Sec. of S.A. National Defence League, claimed
that, taking a line from recent elections, the
League was stronger than ever before. Yet the
Ass party lost two seats, and is now in a minority
instead of a majority in the Council.
That eminent whisky-dealer, Vic. Trea-
surer G. D. Carter, wants to have writers of lead-
ing articles compelled to sign their names to them.
Apropos, will Mr. Carter vote to have the names
of all grog- merchants who have an interest in
public-houses painted over the pub. doors?
Shiels seems to have earned the dislike of
Vic. Catholics by telling the dying sailor, “ To
hell with the Pope,” yarn at his bi-metallic lecture,
when the Archbishop was on the platform. And
The Argus, of course, is doing its best to ac-
centuate the trouble and boom up a big row.
A proof of the hopeless muddle into which
N.S.W. Labour-party has fallen. In one country
electorate the local shearers’ delegate is canvass-
ing on behalf of one of the present M.L.A.’s, and
doing all he knows against the local editor, who is
the “ officially’’-accepted Labour-candidate.
The S.A. Education Department has
ordered that “The song of Australia,” a purely
local production, shall be sung on ordinary and
special occasions in the State schools. It will
gradually push out the Anathema. As poetical
compositions, however, both are about on a par.
Frank Clarke, M.P., who defeated the
O. O. Dangar at a bye-election for
Macleay, looks like a certainty in an electorate
where everyone is from a first to a thirty-first
cousin of everybody else, or else married to every- 1
one’s sister or deceased wife’s sister, cousin, or
aunt.
Veteran Parkes is doing all his canvassing
for St. Leonards outside that electorate. His
receptions there have nob been encouraging re-
cently, so he goes on the wallaby to Blayney and
Orange, and speaks to St. Leonards, "as it were,
through a political telephone. An old dog for a
hard road.
A Professor Dicey has discovered that a
“ colonist ” who has not even paid a visit to Great
Britain might be regarded in certain cases as
legally domiciled there. Then let us create con-
ditions under which a bloated British capitalist
may pass his life in Paris or Timbuctoo, and yet
be domiciled in Australia.
Fiji is coming along nicely. There are
now 5270 coolies there and they have over .£14,000
in the bank among them. There are also some-
thing like 70 whites without employment and
hungry for a crust. And there are also hundreds
of- others working for about .£25 a year and living
as meanly as the coolies do.
Sydney Daily Telegraph says that
“ healthy friction continues between the rival
N.S.W. Labour-Electoral Leagues.” “Healthy
friction ! ” Now, ye would-be saviours of the
people,’just look at your enemies grinning at the
loud creaks of the “fired” Labour axle : “Healthy
friction.” Immortal phrase !
Wilfred Lawson, British M.P., has a
scheme on hand whereby every title conferred by
the sovereign must be accompanied by a statement
of the services for which it is given. When this
measure becomes law the blessed Crown will have
more hard explanation to do in one year than it
has accomplished in all the eight centuries since
the Conquest.
Dear Bulletin, — What MTlwraibh wants
is to live on 6d. a day and earn it. He is grossly
corpulent, a big eater, a big drinker ; and instead
of taking exercise he stays in bed and degenerates.
If he would only hump bluey from Perth to Cool-
gardie it would be the re-making of him. I hope
he won’t. We’ve had enough MTlwraith. —
Queenslander.
The Mayor of Dunedin (M.L.) announces
that an additional local rate of 6d. in the £ is
necessary because of the compulsory closing-up of
many local pubs. This is a “cross-counter” with
“NEWS FROM ’OME”—HEARD IN SYDNEY ART GALLERY.
“They say as how the paint cost a matter of £10. let alone the cove’s time
in layin’ it on.”
a vengeance, and, as a large proportion of the
Dunedin population is Scotch and canny, provides
an appealful argument that should touch the
teetotallers in their tenderest vitals.
Walter Besant says that “ men have to do
the conquering, the defending, and the providing,
therefore they should also do the governing.”
Which sounds logical, only the men don’t do near
all the providing ; also, they often do the defend-
ing very badly ; and every time one lot of men
conquers another lot of men is conquered, and
why the conquered crowd should go on governing
is not explained.
The Rev, Xsitfc, temperance evangelist and
woman’s rights expounder :
If Her Majesty were not kept in ignorance of the con-
dition of her subjects, she would take the poor and
starving to her womanly heart, and give up for their
assistance some of the thousands of pounds she receives
annually from the British nation.
Then, depend upon it, Her Majesty will never
know the truth.
“Party Government rests upon human
nature,” repeated Parkes, for the hundredth time,
in his late tour through the country. “Party
Government,” says Gold win Smith, “is every-
where tending, by the profligate bidding of parties
against each other, to revolution, perhaps to
anarchy. England must some way get out of it,
if she is to escape ruin.” Goldwin Smith is a
thinker —not a parrot.
The moral B. M. Clark, speaking in N.S.W.
Assembly concerning the iniquity of betting—
He was told the tote proprietors were in league with
horse-owners, so that when a man happened on a good
double and got what vulgar people called a “leg in,” the
combination scratched his other leg, so that he was left
holding the baby.
Which goes to show that before tackling an evil
it is as well to know all about it.
The Boers have started to wrench at the
tail of the British Lion with a steam-winch, by
impressing British subjects to serve in the Boer
army without pay, and to find their own horses,
arms and provisions. Up to time of writing there
are no definite developments, and whether the
British Lion will rouse up, or whether his tail will
come right out by the root, is uncertain.
While the N.S.W. Electoral Bill was under
consideration members legislated themselves out
of reach of creditors both in expenses incurred by
them at elections and claims against their salaries
arising from any source whatever. A bill will yet
be passed formally declaring it a breach of
privilege and contempt of Parliament to serve a
member with an affiliation or maintenance order.
Parkes affirms that women would never
vote at the polls for “a drunkard, or a wife-
beater, or any man who is known to neglect his
children.” Yet, gentle woman marries every day
the drunkard, the wife-beater, &c., and sticks t"
him year after year and seems to like the life as a
whole. Moreover, such is the complexity of
human nature that a drunkard and a wife-beater
is very often an able legislator and an honourable
“ outside ” man.
A new potato
called "The Argus”
lias made its debut
on the Melbourne
market. It has 100
eyes.
The S.M. Her-
ald thus, in con-
centrated form,
pillories Protection-
ists, taking, as it
intimates, its argu-
ments from their
own mouths. The
duty of 6d. per
bushel on maize
has largely increased
the area devoted to
that crop ; but pre-
vious to the tariff
maize sold at 2s. 6d.
per bushel, whereas
now it sells at Is. 7d.
“ How is that better
for the maize-
grower ? ” Again,
before the tariff,
wheat sold at 4s.
10d., whereas now
it sells at 2s. 3d.
per bushel: “ How
is that better for
the wheat-grower?”
Here is the ob-
viously - fitting, if
necessarily per-
sonal, answer ;
Two years ago the
Herald sold at 2d.
per copy ; its pro-
prietors contend
that its circulation
and advertisement
patronage are now
greater than then,
yet it now sells at
Id. “ How is that
better for the Her-
ald’s proprietors?”
Also, why has the
HERALDcursed Pro-
tection for so many
years on the alleged
ground that it made
things dear, seeing
that it now curses
it for making them
cheap ?
Parkes, when Premier beg pardon,
“Prime Minister ” —invariably described N.S.W.
Parliament as “ the first assemblage in the land,”
or “the greatest assemblage in the country,” but
when only an ordinary member he declares, as
at Dubbo lately, that “he doesn’t think many
women want to get into that degraded place.
and when he is out of the House altogether he
calls it a den of “thieves, crimps, and blacklegs.”
S.M. Herald querulously complains that
Freetrade candidates are crowding each other as
candidates for N.S.W. Assembly. What about
the Labour candidates now ? It appears that the
Fafc-Man Barnacle candidates can make a wild
rush for .£3OO a year. But, perish the thought
(says the Herald) ; this is pure patriotism, true
zeal for a great cause, and gratifying in the
abstract to every true believer in Freetrader
though rather overdone. Ho, ho 1
THE CONJUROR'S HEAD
FINE PARKES
Methusaleh Parkes is cottoning to the
Females Who Won’t Keep Still, and advocating
(logically enough) that the corollary to the female
franchise is the female M.P. But Parkes per-
formed the curious feat of throwing dead-cats at
himself. “Hi do not believe that there are many
women who want to get into that degraded
place ” (Parliament). Since Parkes has been prin-
cipal chueker-ont of “that degraded place,” he
has for once truly drawn his own portrait.
Editor Bulletin, —There’s nothing very
extraordinary in your statement that “at an un-
employed meeting in Wellington (M.L.) a wooden-
legged man said he had been offered a job—
digging a garden.” We have a wooden legged
man in our district who takes the “cake” at
gardening. It’s the fun of the world to see the
old chap using the artificial limb as a dibble to
plant cabbages with.— Titus A. Dunn.
Varney Parkes, M.P., who possesses a
good deal of manhood which his father doesn’t
possess, and lacks a good deal of brains which the
old man does possess, has been fluttering about like
the dove prematurely released from the Ark. He
sought rest for his feet at Granville, but found no
resting-place; then he descended on Liverpool ;
meanwhile he had a few alarums and incursions up
Wollombi way, and finally he is announced as a
candidate for the electorate of Canterbury.
A thousand pounds has been put up by
the Freetrade —revenue-tariff, or “ silvertail ”
Foreign-trade—party for the purpose, of smashing
Hoyle at Redfern. Hoyle, despite his little airs,
has been a square Democrat. He and the
“official” L.E.L. candidate will, if they both
stand, only split votes and conduce to the return
of their mutual deadly political enemy, the
newly-imported Bradley, from Brummagem, on
whose behalf the aforesaid =£looo is to be poured
down necks, posted on walls, and shoved into the
treasuries of “ great ” papers.
The quarrel between N.S.W. Premier
Dibbs and brewer Toohey, who is opposing his
election at Tamworth, is said to have begun over
a small revenue matter affecting the brewing
trade. When Parkes ousted Jennings in ’B7, a
duty was imposed on beer. The previously exist-
ing duty on sugar used in brewing should then
have been repealed, but Parkes, or rather his
henchman, “ Cocky ” Burns, declined to follow
the example of Gladstone, who in ’BO taxed the
liquor, but took off all the previous imposts on
the materials used. The brewers groaned under
the burden, but could hope for nothing from
Parkes, who has, in a characteristically sneaking
way, politically favoured the lemonade-party all
along. But when the cause for which they did so
much triumphed—as far as getting office went—
the Tooheys expected a little consideration, and
did not get it. The breach afterwards widened,
but this was the first split.
FLETCHER’S PILLS
never fail to cure
INDIGESTION,
COSTIVENESS,
SOUR BREATH,
HEARTBURN,
LIVER DISEASES, and
KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
FLETCHER’S PILLS and CLEMENTS
TONIC are the recognised household remedns
of the Australian colonies, and every designing
quack tries to trade on their reputation and renown.
This is the greatest proof of their merit, and suf-
ferers want to be particular to get the genuine
articles as regret and disappointment are sure to
follow the use of the thousands of “All-failing”
remedies so freely advertised. The reputation
and wide-spread use of Clements Tonic and Flet-
cher’s Pills are the greatest proofs of their ap-
preciation by the public. If they were not as
represented they would have passed out of memory
long ere this ; but instead their sale is greater and
they are more esteemed day by day and week by
week, and this emphatically proves their undis-
puted supremacy. Listen to no argument from
interested parties ; demand the genuine articles
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.


/de S?naJ? byte
a/ f"'"' 11 11 '* 1
fnit/ed V * e^,n r
tVAa./e. sooner*.
t f
u g/ <?<?
A^^, s/r .
T'/t/s is one iv~A. tier's s/a/y~
7iU af. iei Ais Tiu-e /'A/y- -f/A/A
A
yjth «•
& sAeTaA ma-cSe o/-
VAe. C/-ez<s~. -'Tr^§^>
TAe r e.
Was ex. /^
’en/yz.
, j *■' V
Apx\ &1 i‘ V'f
e v*V K JV> ■>-
>•**
#Ji co&.t
UrAa,//nf ct-uiS&~*
Ef/etf
/n 14//V//0 mftiun- •.
&/-oush F
jsi/a stfikn
/Public 1
(JOhßv)
J s
||ll^
/W
THE WHALE-HUNT IN POUT PHILLIP.


2.—-Mr. Spicer appears upon the platform fbr the
first time. “ Them eggs never came from my shop,” he
said, “or they’d ha’ been fresh ’uns ! ” (Applause and
'vote, of confidence.) - I
3.—Meantime, busi-
ness was continued as
usual at the old stand, under the management
of his able and energetic assistant.
talSKv
I—A large and influential committee meets frequently
in the cellar of the “ cash grocery ”
ds
w%
5.—“I come from the office
of the Flatbosh Fire-Eater ”
“ Ah! you want to interview me r
eh 1" said Spicer. “ Well, as to my
views on——”
6.—“Well—er—it’s not
'exactly that,” said the Fire-
Eater man; “ I thought we
might do some business. You might give
us an order for something in this line, for
instance.” “I wouldn’t stoop to that there I”
■ said Spicer.
1. Here you see an.
influential deputation
waiting upon Spicer,,
the “ cash grocer,” with
a requisition to stand
for the electorate of
Flatbush. He reluctantly consents to place
. himself in the hands of his friends, etc.,
%tc. As nearly everybody m the. elec-
torate owes him money for groceries, his
chances seem rosy.
THE CASH GROjC.ERy S']
%/,.,f% v% (
s <^si
7. —‘‘The self-styled' Cash Grocer'
(the italics are ours) Ifhopes to get into
Parliament by the votes of those cus-
tomers of his who are hopelessly in his
debt for groceries, and without the aid
of a free and independent press-. We
shall Bee.”— Extract from next issue of
the Fire-Eater
J 12.—1 n the
meantime, busi-
ness at the “Cash
Grocery ” booms. Ous-
, tomers may be almost
said- to have helped themselves during
Spicer’s absence in the ’Ouse.
lAfi-He begins the world again.
9. 1 —1 n due. time the:- FieE-Eater paid
Spicer the compliment Of printing his portrait
with laudatory notice,' for which Spicer paid
the usual rates,' besides ordering an unlimited
number of “ Addresses.”
10-—Well, to nsSke a long story short, Spicer reallj
gets in, and his first Official act is to get photographed in
his frock-coat, top-hat, and railway badge.
11.—He takes his seat in Parliament.
I First'sitting.
Seoond'sitting.
(Third sitting.
Fourth sitting, and all
“ sittings.”
-42*
13.—One day he .broke away; from his
exacting legislative duties to, visit his elec-
torate, and to see how the'cash grocery was
thriving. The ableand 'energetic \ assistant
was gone—so were the cash groceries mostly.
But the bailiff was there.
f—Extract from the Fibe-Eatbr.
“We • are not * surprised/^bo. hear* that
Spicer, the . Cash Grocer (italics 7 ours), 1
has, through bankruptcy, been compelled
to retire to that'obscurityJfrom Which
he,never oughtXto have'emerged. We
always poinfced out,” etc.
SPICER'S CANDIDATURE-A CASE IN POINT.


WESTR A L I A.
rpHE COMING COLONY is WEST AUSTRALIA.
J- Population increasing; Revenue Returns show
wonderful expansion; Mineral resources being rapidly
developed.
LAND at PERTH and ALBANY at present Low Prices
is the Safest and Most Profitable Investment Offering.
PERTH CITY LOTS,
From £4O each. Good Position. Easy Terms.
PERTH SUBURBAN BLOCKS-
Well Situated. Good Sites. From £lO each.
ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Grand position. From £l5 each. Very Cheap.
Title guaranteed perfect. No forfeiture if ill or out of
work Send or write for plans and full particulars to
THE intercolonial investment CO..
Limited,
(Established Sydney and Perth, 18S5),
300 ritt-it., sYUMiV. W. J. Douglas, Manager.
f
Wonderful Discovery!
noss’s
CKLKRRATKD
EYE LOTION .
mHIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Hliyht,
i Inflamed Kites and Lids, Dimness of Sif/ht.
Very beneficial t,o those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strenythens the siyht . By post, Us, per Bottle.
Manufactured Solelyhy II \. RO >B. Chcitiid,
631 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PRECAUTION
AVOID HOTELS
which do not
SELL
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
Society
London D.T. has called for an explanation
of why ladies choose to ride in smoking carriages.
The present writer can give a reason for one smart
young woman selecting a smoking carriage on the
Melb. to Brighton line. She was just dying for a
whiff. The male passengers courteously sug-
gested to this lovely vision that she had seated
herself in the wrong compartment, whereupon she
drew a match across her pretty boot-sole and
lighted her cigarette. She also volunteered the
news that she would always patronise smoking
carriages until they were labelled “Gentlemen
Only.” Her modest way of dropping this signi-
ficant remark was a credit to her sex. A vulgar,
surly, baldheaded man in the corner produced a
plug of tobacco, and said that the young lady
might perhaps prefer to fill her pipe, but the fair
one confessed a dread of pipes thus far. She
would work up to a meerschaum presently, she
said. At the next station she got out, and there
was no more sunshine in that smoking carriage.
# • #
ml oti it , , , , , ,
The Shebrew lady, who lately shocked
Sydney Semitic circles by eloping with and
marrying a Gentile, will not, by this step on her
part, necessarily forfeit her share of her late
in the will which, it is said, provides for the disin-
heritance of any member of the family who marries
a Christian. A precedent on this point-at-law
was recently created by the finding of an English
Court, in a" precisely similar case, when on argu-
ment, a verdict was found for plaintiff—a young
Jewess who had contested the legality of the
, . , ~ *n j • ° .i i. v,
clause in her parent s will, decreeing that she be
disinherited should she ever, after his death,
marry out of her religion.
That fatal accident on the
North Shore ferry, Sydney, must
come soon. Someone will jump for
the boat as she leaves the wharf,
will slip, fall, be mangled by (be
paddle wheels. After which, as soon
as the starting-bell rings, the turn-
stiles will be locked.
* * •
An Australian parson, the
other day, described the church as
“standing with one foot firmly
planted on the earth while the other
points towards heaven.” Under
these circumstances it is to bo
hoped that the church wears tights.
# • #
Much excitement greeted the
appearance of five prison-garbed
convicts carting coal through the
Melbourne streets recently. No
convict should be made to work
in the presence of free men
unless the community holds that
once a man is sent to gaol he is
bound to remain a criminal all his
days.
# # *
The Argus describes the
W.OjT.U. as—“ That collection of
anxious angularities.”
* • •
As Rue Australia appears now
to have reached the stage of grand
general universal bust-up, isn’t it
time the Royal Tar was sent by
the Unsettlement Association to
bring back its sorry pilgrims?
* • •
As the Royal Tar is now lying idle in
Sydney harbour waiting for a charter, it would
seem as if the Rue Australia Association bad
definitely given up all intention of sending out
any additional emigrants to Paraguay. It was
commonly understood that some 200 or 300 more
members bad thrown up their employment, and
sold off their homes, and paid their money, or at
least a part of it, into the common fund, and were
waiting somewhere about Sydney for the Tar to
carry them away over the damp, promiscuous sea
to the Land of Promise. What has become of
these people, and their money, and their broken
hopes, and their vanished dream of “ true mate-
ship ” ? So far as concerns the Australian end of
the enterprise, it seems to have flickered out as
utterly as if it had never been.
# • *
Murderer Bertrand, after buoying himself
up sanguinely for 20 or 27 years with hopes of
release, seems at the last to have quite delivered
his mind captive to despair. What can the world
seem like in the eyes of this old, worn-out, diseased
convict after 28 years of captivity ? He must, at
any rate, wander afield like Cain, hide his iden-
tity, and live in a terrible exclusiveness of dread.
It is said that Mrs. Kinder is dead, but this state-
ment has been recently denied. If she be not
dead, and Bertrand meets her, she soon will be.
By the way, Bertrand, only two years ago, told a
Bulletin man not only that the much-denied
notorious diary, compromising some of Syd-
ney’s oldest families, was an actual fact, but
that there was a duplicate in existence “in
a safe place,” and that it would be “used”
after his death, if he died in gaol, or after his
release in the contrary event. However, Bertrand
was such a marvellously audacious and plausible
liar that credence cannot he placed upon any one
of his uncorroborated statements.
# * •
“ Ovid’s Art of Love ” has been proscribed
by Vic. Customs Minister, Sniffy-nose Baker.
Ovid had fallen into disuse and dust; but the
seizure of half-a-dozen copies in a Fitzroy shop
has quite sent him up again, and all the second-
hand bookstalls are, no doubt, being rapidly
cleared out. Then the booksellers will try and
get Baker to “suppress” some more unsaleable
stock. What idiots “ moral ” people are ? And,
whatever immorality an immoral mind may find
in Ovid, there is no obscenity comparable to that
in a dozen moral hooks that could be mentioned —
beginning with the Bible.
» * #
The Melb. social-purists who wish to block
out “The Heavenly Twins,” etc., as prurient
literature, are anxious “ to safeguard the morals
of the lower orders.” Another reading : “To the
poor all things are impure.”
# # *
A correspondent :
Dear Bulletin,— The other day sundry males and
females representing various phases of Social Gimletism
waited upon the Vic. Minister of Customs and requested
him in tremulous tones to proscribe certain hooks, which
they alleged to be immoral. Their work has borne fruit
already, for a raid was made last Thursday upon a Fitzroy
bookseller and a number of copies of “Ovid’s Art of
Love,” translated by Dryden, were seized, and now await
the fate of being burned by the hangman. The question
arises—where is the limit of morality to be drawn? Ovid
contains passages undeniably sensual, hut certainly not
more so than the "Song of Solomon.” And there is
nothing offensive or disgusting in Ovid’s sensuality. Per-
haps that is why the Gimletists object. Immorality in
beauteous guise such as Ovid and Bocaccio present it is
more likely to be dangerous to public virtue tjiau the re-
pulsive descriptions of a Zola, which, if anything, should
lend in an opposite direction. "There are,” said one
female of the deputation, “many hooks that are improper
in tone throughout, which, however, contain no passages
that we can point out as indecent.” This sweeping de-
nunciation probably includes Byron, Shelley, Kipling, and
almost every writer of note, and it can be seen plainly
that the “ Piety Push ” only want to get the upper hand
to liar the entrance of “Under the Deodars” forthwith.
The removal of ‘‘Chloe ” from the National Gallery a few
years back at the instance of this same Calvinist ic crew
should stand as an everlasting warning to the Melbourne
public. The demand of those crooked-minded persons,
who are unable to distinguish between nakedness and
nudity and who could perceive indelicacy in Lefebrye’s
ultra-delicate masterpiece, was a subject for the united
laughs of the whole artistic world as the cowardly sub-
mission to it. was for its contempt. Some day lb' 1
apathetic MOhourneite will wake up and find that he ha-
nothing to read but IheQhurch of England Messenger m- 1
the tract on the reformed washerwoman, nothing to lout
Photo, by Y[?]oman & Co.] [Melbourne.
Mrs. NEEDLE (the hastily-suspected alleged Melb. poisoner).
at hut a crowd of sour-visaged, anaemic women, nothing
to drink but weak coffee, and nothing to listen to but the
sermons of a droning individual with a long, shaven
upper lip. The sole thing in the shape of fun will be the
frequent fights in the Presbyterian Assembly. Art will
be a thing unknown and pretty women or women with
fascinating manners or women (unmoustachiocd) with a
chest or hip measurement exceedingly twenty-five inches
will be summarily expelled from the country.
m * *
Mrs. Anderson, who shot John Fraser at
Melbourne and then attempted suicide, is un-
doubtedly the victim of misrepresentation in the
interests of the dead man. When occupying
Durham Hall, Albion-street, Sydney (the old
home of the Hill family), the unhappy lady was
known to be most charitably disposed. Fraser
and others were taken into her establishment and
kept—with and without cash. The imputation
that she wanted Fraser to elope with her is so far
unproven.
• # •
Mdlle. G&iofc, the lady with the divided
skirt, who made Sydney feel last week as if a tree
had fallen unexpectedly on its head, has gone to
Maoriland, and The Bulletin waits, with a
kind of subdued expectancy, to hear of her arrest
in Dunedin. Dunedin is a moral and profoundly
Scotch city, and about the last place in the world
that can be safely infested by a lady in baggy
pants and a coat. The Bulletin has no shadow
of malice towards Mdlle. Gc'not, and it doesn’t
want her to be arrested in Dunedin through any
ill-feeling. It only wants to know how the evi-
dence would sound when deliven d in a Scotch
accent by a freckled Celtic i olioeman. Many
years ago a lady in some kind of a reform garment
did appear in Dunedin, but 400 small boys fol-
lowed her along Princes-street, and at last she ran
for her life, and vanished up-hill in the direction
of Roslyn, and no one knows what became of her.
BERTRAND (on route to England—sketched at Port Melbourne).
Dear Bulletin, —Be the get-up —
woman is a curvilinear animal, man a rectilinear.
A woman-clad man is angular and awkward ; a
nau-clad woman is rounded and ridiculous—even
without the further grotesque combination of
brooch and breeches pendants and pants !
Squint.
* # •
Jurist : “ There seems to be no case on
modern record of a woman poisoner with any
exact knowledge of the power of analysis. On
the other hand, the eminent men, such as Prit-
chard and Palmer, have been analysts. they are
urged on by the impunity of the ignorant.”
Dr. O’Hara, before Melbourne medical
students, revives the idea of State regulation of
marriage. “No one should be allowed to marry
unless he can pass for life-assurance.” The
obvious answer is that people would do without.
It would be a oaso of Love v. Matrimony.
• * *
Teetotal lecturer Isitt tells of a Maori-
lander’s drink bill, the last item of which was:
“To hire of cab to send you to the lunatic
asylum.” The total of the account was .£216.
The drink was whisky chiefly. A good story—
but old Marriott printed it 18 years ago in the
San Francisco Newsletter.
# • •
Spagnoletti: “The Melb. Opera Clubs
keep in evidence. Three or four of them, and one
bills a show now. A case has come under my
notice of a lady school-teacher who has lost an
excellent billet through her persistency in sticking
to one of these pernicious clubs, though she could
only sing in the chorus. Here is one of the claims
for liberty of the daughters—liberty to go through
the cuddling of rehearsals, twice a week.
# * *
Another revolver shooting case in Sydney
last week! “No cause at all,” says the local
Herald, “seems to have prompted the man to do
such a rash act.” No cause—only the Dibbs
edict has set everybody carrying revolvers, and
the man who carries a revolver is bound to use
it sooner or later.
» • •
MY EPITAPH.
Hiccough jaoet.
The Dipsomaniac.
• * *
Two Victorian councillors are said to have
been served with writs by a local resident who
wants >£2oo for damages done to his person and
reputation by the said aldermen. When in a
state of “Inyal enthusiasm,” or common drunk,
the councillors, so the story goes, deluged the
complainant with whisky and then set him on lire.
There is an air of irrational romance about the
story especially in relation to the disposal of the
whisky, but it is vouched for by a local paper,
and tim half-cremated individual is produced in
evidence. He was saved by the publican in whose
bar-parlour the little Joke was enacted—snatched
as a brand from the burning, so to speak.
# • •
Melb. Arous reports a strike of wet-nurses
in Vienna, but forgets to add the usual reflections
on another attempt tooripple industry.
* * *
Mrs. Taylor, a resident of Sheffield, Tas.,
has earned “ Queen’s bounty ” by giving birth to
triplets. By the way, a girl waited on an English
magistrate, the othet day) and asked that the
father of her illegitimate children might be ordered
to support them. “ How many ? ” enquired the
beak. “ Three. ’* “How old?’* “ All the same
age—one year.”
# * •
Dear Bulletin, —
Aren’t “ Schwarzkoff ”
and “Tom Collins”
hitting round each
other ?—“ S ” having
theological virtue in his
eye and “T.C.“ physio-
logical—so that the im-
moral man of the one
may very well be the
moral man of the otl e l '.
The forcefulness < f
Huguenot, Ironside or
Vaudois came not
from his “creedfulness”
—but from the self-
control and fixity of
purpose which he shared
with the Spartan, who,
as liar, thief and child-
murderer, was other-
wise a gross offender
against that conven-
tional morality which
“ Schwarzkoff ” says is
no essential of national
robustness. —Hur. te-
nd
Une of the diffi-
culties of a firm of
Maoriland spiritualists,
who got into trouble
the other day, arose out
of the materialised
vision of a certain de-
ceased husband. A
sorrowing widow paid
the firm to call up the
unquiet ghost of the
defunct, and when a
shining figure appeared
in a corner of the dark-
ened room she em-
braced it fervently.
Then sundry great
patches of luminosity
came off the ghost arid
stuck to the widow,
who sat down glowing
with phosphoric radi-
ance, while the dark-
ened apparition fled
from the scene.
“Rankers” Kennedy and Brown have
become the heads of the Vic. Detective Depart-
ment. The question now is, whether a “ ranker
will succeed to the Chief Commissionership of
Police, which seems inevitable, and will be the
biggest innovation. The old school has now
pretty well abandoned its hopeless opposition to
the “rankers.” All this, as has been pointed out,
results from Graham Berry’s decided action, long
ago, as Premier.
8 # # •
Cold water Isitt :
I am sorry tliat Mrs. Wolstenholme is not a proliilii-
tionist. I am quite sure tint she would not run a pul>.,
and 1 therefore want to know how she can take it upon
herself to say that anybody else should.
Ergo ; We are quite sure that Isitt would never
turn rat-catcher, and therefore we want to know
how he can take it upon himself to permit without
protest anyone else being a rat-catcher ?
# • *
The latest Sydney evening-paper advt. :
pENTLEMAN,' stranger, desires meet young lady,
Vi companion and guide white in town. L.J.t.,
Daily Telegraph Office, King-street.
« * •
Arrangements have been completed for an
interchange of pictures between the National
Galleries of Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
Twelve paintings leave each city during the next
financial year, six being sent to each of the other
Galleries. At the end of the half-year there is
another shuffle, pictures being passed on so that
again a dozen fresh works are available. The
freight and insurance charges are colossal, as the
pictures in transit are valued at thousands of
pounds. # #
Rev. E. T. Con, Armadale, Vic.: “ Many
persons who attend divine worship are too mean
to pay for the wood they wear off the seats.”
Perhaps they reckon it is enough to have to pay
for the stuff they wear off their pants.
Few people are aware that tobogganing is
a Bananaland pastime. Near Mt. Perry there is
HAUNTED!
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The figures neat of maidens sweet
In dreamland wander to and fro.
One lingers long—a form petite
Tyrant! it brought me to its feet
Ac Ulabo,
A year ago.
Eyes dark and gray, brown eyes and blue
Twinkle and pass—fate wills it so.
One pair is fixed—of violet hue.
Villains ! they cleft my heart in two
At lllabo,
A year ago.
Demure and merry, sad and gay,
The sweet girl faces come and go.
But one there is elects to stay—
The rogue ! iUstole my heart away
At Idaho,
A year ago.
I.ithgow, N.S.W.
A ROMAUNT-MODERN STYLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mounting in haste on his bonny brown mare
Rideth the prince away ;
Merrily up in the morning air
Riseth his roundelay;
Merrily over the road he swings,
Merrily over the stones he flings.
Merrily over his song he sings.
Merrily over his roundel rings—
This is his wedding-day.
Low he bows with a princely grace,
Sues on a bended knee ;
Why does he come with his fair young face.
Damsel, to plead with thee?
Why is the heir of a princely line
Winning and wooing with words of wine ?
(Comrade, send me that ear of thine—
Rich is the maid as a ruby-mine.
Devil a dime hath he !)
P. LUFTIG.


THE THREE BEST STOVES.
The Chef &
The Parramatta
The Housewife
Don't he persuaded to purchase any
other kind until you have written to
us for a Catalogue, giving illustra-
tions and full particulars.
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.,
250 TO 256 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
PORT.
Per Doz.
1890 .. PORT, 12/6
1889 .. OLD PORT, 18/-
1886 .. INVALID PORT, 30/-
CLARET.
Per Doz.
1891 .. BORDEAUX, 8/-
1890 .. GRAND PINAUD, 12/-
1889 .. PETITE YBDURE, 15/-
SHERRY.
Per Doz.
1890 .. SHERRY, 12/6
1889 .. OLD SHERRY, 18/-
1886 .. INVALID SHERRY, 307-
SWEET RED WINE, 11/- per Dozen.
Any of these Wines assorted in 12 Bottles to suit Customers. Securely packed in cases. Free
Delivered in Sydney and suburbs. Country Orders against P. 0.0.
AUSTRALIAN VINEYARDS DEPOT,
Agents for the Growers,
331 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (OP P. PALING’S.)
How to Get a Piano or Organ.
yOU, of course, want the highest quality of tone, action,
-*• touch and beauty of exterior you can afford; but
you must have durability. Durability is an indispensable
condition, and however cheap an instrument may appear,
without durability it is worthless. Avoid the cheap
pianos, for which there are agents in every town, who tell
—and often through ignorance believe—that they are
equal to the Steinway or the Erard or some other first-
class maker. Therefore, no matter how big a bargain you
think somebody else offers, investigate
OUR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK OF
THE BEST MAKERS.
STEINWAY & SONS’
AMERICAN PIANOS.
The great superiority of these Pianos is the result of
thoroughly seasoned, absolutely faultless material, and
more perfect workmanship, and of essential differences
and improvements of construction.
ERARD & GO.,
Established in Paris in 1780.,
The new Parisian models may be seen in our Show-rooms.
The world-wide fame that the firm of Erard & Co. have
enjoyed for more than a century is more than maintained
to-day, owing to the great increase in the number of
instruments manufactured.
LI PR PIANOS.
These celebrated manufacturers having discovered several
bogus makers imitating their famous instruments, have
decided to entrust their entire Australasian business to
us, and have appointed us absolutely Sole Agents for
Australasia.
SAMPLES NOW ON VIEW.
We have also in Stock the first-class Pianos by Julius
Feurich, Carl Ecke, Gors and Kallmann, Uebel and Lech-
leiter, The Victor, The Belling, Kirkmann, Collard, Schied-
mayer, Kaps, and othera
W. H. PALING &, CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
a hill of decomposed micaceous schist. Now,
decomposed micaceous schist (especially if damp)
is very slippery. The sportive Mt. Perryite
accordingly greases his toboggan on the under
sideascends the hill, descends with lightning
rapidity, and experiences the delight of the prince
of Canadian sports without getting his nose frost-
bitten by an Arctic blast of 20 degrees below zero.
• * #
Editor Bulletin, —The mean man appears
to be having a fair innings. What about the mean
woman ? One of them up this way has a Kanaka
working for her, and the other day he fell sick.
She gave him an unfinished bottle of patent medi-
cine, and then docked the price of the full bottle
from his wages.—Yours, N.Q.
The enlightened white pietist can’t afford
to snigger too loftily at the religious darkness
of the heathen Chinese at Hongkong, who (so a
cable says) tried to scare away the black plague
by Joss processions accompanied with the letting
off of crackers ; nor need Church of England folk
think teo proudly of their Archbishop of Canter-
bury as compared with the Viceroy of Canton,
who publicly offered sacrifices to propitiate the
devils. Orthodox creeds inculcate the very same
superstition, only it varies in its incidence. There
are “prayers for rain” especially set out in the
“ Book of Common Prayer,” approved of by
Canterbury and endorsed by her Gracious, who
is the Head of the Church ! And isn’t Australia
familiar with “ days of humiliation and prayer ”
as a "’cure for this evil, or for that—even to the
sordid question of general bank-bursting ? That
“Book,” too, contains a plague prayer or two, and
several others follies, for use when a ton of
chloride of lime would be more to the point. It is
the same superstition—the same principle of scared
ignorance; the difference is only one of degree and
incidence. Our bishops and parsons assemble
and lead public tomfooleries; the Canton boss
processes and offers sacrifices. Savages all.
* * *
A monthly-remittance man living at one
of the principal Melb. hotels (who hates the Jews,
by the way) usually “does it all in” in three
weeks and retires to bed until the next money
(JSIOO) comes around. A certain money-lender
who stays in the same hotel visited our friend in
bed last week, and, putting on a most concerned
and sympathetic air, enquired if there was anything
he could do for him (meaning, of course, in the
way of a little bill). “Yes,” replied the recum-
bent intended victim, “send me up a half-dozen
of Heidsieck, my good friend, and I’ll be obliged
to you.” The Heidsieck is still in the cellar.
» « •
Rule of an Australian temperance society ;
“ If any brother or sister shall eat brandy-sauce
with pudding, not knowing that the said pudding
contained brandy-sauce, the said brother or sister
shall be exonerated, as though the pudding did
not contain brandy-sauce.”
* • *
Sydney Municipal Council has its official
stationary marked with the device of the crown
and anchor. A late Mayor made his money as
landlord of the “Crown and Anchor.” What is
the relation, if any, between these two facts ?
» • •
A correspondent desires to nominate for
The Bulletin’s mean-man competition those Vic-
torian legislators who lately attended a brother
member’s funeral, and charged the Government
for the wreath and cab-hire,
• * •
Melbourne advt. :
PREPOSSESSING young lady with means wishes
correspond gentleman good position; no gingers
need apply. Dulcie, Ooilingwood P.O.
* • •
Dear Bulletin, —The “ reason why you
never see a parson with a good horse or a priest
with a bad one” is, that while the former buys
his own cattle, the latter has his presented to him
by the “ faithful,” and, as a rule, he gets his pick.
If he does not choose his moke, he gets the sovs.^
which answer the purpose equally well, some*
times better, as half the priests could make
money at horse-ooping.—F.
* * *
“ A beautiful coffin, polished, £5, includ-
ing funeral, glass hearse, coach. ‘Demise & Co.,’
high-class economic undertakers, Melbourne.” —
Argus advt.
When a man thinks he is a genius he
lets his hair grow long; when a woman
thinks she is a genius she cuts her hair short.
The only difference between the two geniuses is
that the woman has all the best of it when she
wants to wash her head.
At the Victorian artists’ Art Union
Exhibition many of the simplest titles
are misspelt, one notable instance being
“The Nereid ” which is catalogued as
“The Neraid.’’
* » •
Why does the cable to S.M.
Herald put it that “ the son of Den-
mark’s Crown Prince is about to be bet-
rothed to a daughter of the Prince and
Princess of Wales ? ” Was the Prince or
Princess married before—or what ? Such
particularity is necessary when dealing
with certain Australian politicians, but
the Herald generally treats heirs to
thrones without suspicion.
* • •
A Maoriland man has made a new
departure bysueing his mother-in-law for
maintenance. The old lady, he solemnly
avers, promised him a subsidy of 40s. a
week for the first twelve months after
marriage, but when she had got her
daughter off her hands she failed to pay
up. Also, she flatly denied the existence
of the alleged agreement, and conse-
quently the bridegroom has taken pro-
ceedings.
* * •
A Melb. fishmonger was heavily
fined one day lately for selling a cray-
fish on the blessed Sabbath. The gospel-
shop is the only emporium which is
allowed to push trade with impunity on
Sunday—out of regard for the perishable
nature of its goods, no doubt. Certainly
that whale it has been dealing in so long
has kept pretty well, but people who are
at all particular are beginning to sniff al
it a good deal now, and keep to windward
of the Book of Jonah as much as possible.
» « »
In the deputation of Social Gim-
letists to the Victorian Minister of
Customs demanding the proscription of
Paul de Kock’s and other works, Hut-
chinson, a godly bookseller, solemnly
announced that several commercial tra-
vellers had informed him that the Aus-
tralians were the most foul-mouthed of
the English-speaking races. Commercial
travellers 1 Fancy the average drummer
growling about bad language and cobalt
yarns!
• « •
Editor Bulletin, —Licenses for
the sale of Australian wine only are
issued in N.S.W., bub apparently none for Aus-
tralian beer only. Why not ?—Stig.
Parkes has been bombarded with con-
gratulations on the attainment of his 79th birth-
day last Sunday. A Sydney D.T. interviewer
went with a blithesome, springy step to dive into
the old man’s recollections of infancy, and ex-
tracted much information regarding his capacity
for goo-goo utterance and mud-pie manufac-
ture. Singularly enough, however, the veteran
omitted the one thing material, and did not say
that he owes his strength and health, under Pro-
vidence, to a judicious use of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, sold at corner of Pitt and Park streets,
Sydney.
A DESERTED VILLAGE.
The golden sun was going down
Upon the present century.
When wandered forth from Melbourne town
A citizen adventurery.
He travelled out to try his luck,
Dejected by distress o’ late;
He plodded on until he struck
A region sad and desolate.
His glances fell on ruined huts ;
And o’er the landscape granity
Some hand had carved with rugged cuts
The legend, “ All is vanity 1 ”
He wondered what these tokens dree
Of wasted might and mettle meant.
A parrot on a sapless tree
Cried, “That’s a village settlement.”
Now, who’d be a sojourner here upon earth.
For means of existence a striver,
Whilst good people, very, are readj to bury
Your corpse right away, for a fiver!
Life isn’t worth living when someone is giving
A colfln (including the polish)
With handles bright brassy, an hearse gay and glassy,
And coach up-to-date and tollollish,
For a fiver—a fiver !
They will bury you dead, or alive-er.
For better or worse, book a seat in the hearse
And give up the ghost for a fl-i-ver.
No subsequent quarrels concerning the bill
'Twixt Bones and the grieving survivor,
Prompt cash on the minute, your body is in it.
And payment in full is the fiver.
Remember, you quick ’uns! a quintette of thick ’uns
Will buy all you need for the journey,
And, maybe, for seven they’ll send you to Heaven,
Unless you have been an attorney.
Say a fiver, a fiver.
And chance where you’ll prove "n arriver,
For bad or for good, choose an ulster of wood,
And pass in your check for a fl-i-ver.
A WISE VIRGIN.
Why not love him “ as a sister?”
But she put her mouth awry
When he took her hand, and kiss’t her.
With a soft, fraternal sigh.
“ I will love you,” said she, snarling,
“ Like a sister all your life—
On the understanding, darling,
That you take me for a wife.
“ Then you need not play ‘ the brother’
To some secret goddess strange ;
I shall answer for ‘ the other’
When Your Highness wants a change.
It will keep you out of trouble
And prevent a lot of strife,
If you pick me for the ‘ double,’
And your ‘sister ’ is your wife.”
Melb.
E.F.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insuffi-
ciently stamped. Name and address must
appear on MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted, and in no
case will MS. be returned unless stamps are
sent.
J.G.D. : Nob quite up Drummer ; The wet-
Wragge topic is wrung out for the present CabbageJ
Dull Reipanes : A thin, seedy little warble; “Bush’
toocataloguy. ..TheMoa: Better stay extinct. Ruru:
Prose may squeeze in Irreconcilable: Would you ever
be able to satisfy unsuccessful competitors that their
missing word wasn’t appropriate ? “ Audit ” isn’t a live
subject; but thanks W.P. : Awkward, episodical
style, and little interest J.A. : Genteel, slim-waisted
doggerel—sa3 r oatterel J.E.H. : Let these two pro-
positions soak in and report progress ; (I) When it can be
discharged consistently with other duties, it is the duty
of the State to provide work for the unemployed ; (2)
No man has a right to demand work from the State
Anygood : Lots; but n0g0... .Galt: Like the boo of an
Illawarra bunyip Goodwin: Girly-girly 'E. K.
Watts: Idea good ; workmanship poor—J.L.B.: “Bliss
—kiss, charms—arms,” are right; but you must rhyme
“love” with “dove,” not “above,” if it’s for Tub Bul-
letin.. P.M.: “Promise” ineligible C.D.O.:_ No
novelty; ornament overdone . .H.E.F.: (1) Griffith
chiefly drafted the “Bill to Constitute the Commonwealth
of Australia ” adopted at 1891 convention ; (2) to advertise
one’s-self falsely as “ Dr.” and “ M.D.” with the object
of getting money from the public is an offence under the
Vagrant Act, N.S.W.—penalty, six months’ hard ; (3)
ask him yourself; (4) time enough for Ingersoll to
recant when he dies he’s very lively yet
Moston: The “scarcity of mutilated Chows” is to be
found in the fact that the Chinese don’t believe in knife-
operations of any kind. In Australia when you see a
Chow minus a leg or an arm, you can stake your existence
that the amputation was effected in an hospital, and
without John’s approval.... Constant S.; Cannot repub-
Photo, by Creelm[?]n] [Sydney.
Mlle. GENOT (the travelling French lady who has been
wearing trousers in Sydney).
lish. You will find it in “ A Golden Shanty ”if you can
get a copy M‘C.: Indeed! In the Louisa Collins
poisoning case, at Sydney, the counsel assigned (at the
fast moment) to prisoner, who was a pauper, got only
five guineas for his services, which included 14 days’
attendance at court. And the woman, being penniless,
could not obtain medical evidence for the defence. How
can trials be fair under such, or similar, circumstances?
J. F. Blackburn (Nhill): The word was “Riven.”
The pool was 1306 18s., and only two struck it Coma
(Col., V.): Album verses only Towser: Well, you are
right. He is only the son of a hog Montague C.:
The words must be given exactly... A. V. Walker: We
don’t remember it.. Am. : No, for the late Rev. Dr.
Bromby, Melb., insisted on pronouncing Aborigine as
Abborryjeen Basalt: You send us our own paragraph,
six months old Ex-Constable: But who were they?
They mayn’t have belonged to the paper at all J.
Evan S. (Maoriland): We don’t remember your coal-
heaver Platypus : Orneryinkcuss parobnoxious
Questionist: Brutality is not cruelty. Good living and
“ refinement ” (in the conventional sense) do not neces-
sarily decrease cruelty— e.g., Roman thumb-downers,
religious torturers, Mrs. Montagues Woorinda: No..
Eromo : Too slight tostand alone R.S.F. : Whydidyou
let S. steal a march on you? Never trust.... Van Demon:
Merit, not enough Roi Roiter: Useless Van
Tromp: The romance of the wealthy parvenu.
J.Y.M. : Can't see it L.K. : “ Will we re-
turn ?” Oso gladly Fly; “Love Story” short; so
was its shrift... R.B. : “A Song” declined O.T. :
Stale J.S. : Send along Is. 4d. deficient postage ..
Ignoramus : The gnomon on pointer should be N. and
S. ; its angle equal to latitude No Signature (Welling-
ton): Your poem is half-brother to the worm and a near
relation to the innumerable hogs of Gadara. . Johnel
Slavin; Thanks .. H.A. (Glebe-road): The “enclosed”
isn’t “ of any use to us,” or to any person clothed and in
his right mind .. . D.N. (Dunedin) : Odes on the marriage
of York and May are as stale as the egg that was laid last
century. Write an ode to May’s baby... Democrat: As
you say, the curse of the Labour-party is that it is a
Labour-party and not a Democratic-party. It has started
with a fixed idea that only the horny-handed toiler can
be a true Democrat, and any Democrat who isn’t horny
is despised and rejected. Tro many of the horny-handed
have horns on their brains Slopshop (Greymouth):
Send your obscene jokes somewhere else, or keep them
for your own private consumptirn... H.A.O. (E.Melb.):
Another specimen of that hazy kind of pome which tells
the workers to awake and arise and things like that.
Please drop this kind of aimless fizzing and banging. The
Democratic movement has to be run, like a bank, on busi-
ness principles if it is to succeed, and a bank never issues
poems calling on the shareholders to “awake’ and
“arise.”. ..Tom Collins: Your mean woman won’t pass...
Miner (Allendale): Truth is more dismal than fiction,
therefore the solemn truthfulness of your story sticks out
like a bowsprit... Hanki (Melb.): You haven’t even the
courage to put your own name and address to your
accusation Peter Block (Wellington): Shares in the
concern you mention are never likely to be worth a
copper the cartload.... Close Shave: A good subject, but
treated in a fashion which would kill any subject, how-
ever robust George Davies: A soulless parody....
Melbournian : You say democrats should not support the
Credit Fonoier scheme because “it expressly leaves out
the poor man.” Well, the Credit Fonder is a State
money-lending institution ; the State has to get security
for its money ; and if the poor man can’t give security he
has to be left out. If you want the State to lend money
without security, please send along a coherent scheme
showing how it can be done without bankruptcy.. .
Konx: Will consider Chand Mai’: Please chase your-
self as fast as you can round a large hall, and kick your-
self hard when you overtake yourself. Then swear off
bi-metallism and lead a coherent existence hereafter....
G.D. (Pahiatua): Don’t say “ I ween” in your next poem.
Only under extreme pressure is anybody allowed to ween
in this paper, The Goburra (Redfern): Poem long,
lank and hopeless Too-Whit: A dull horror of mad-
ness, murder, strangulation, ghosts and mouth-foam....
W.G.B. (Toowoomba): Long and not specially interesting.
Also, you write a hand like a lobster in hysterics... . M.L. :
“ Two Eldorados” not good enough. We wouldn’t even
take six Eldoradoes at the price .. Thorold Dalrymple :
An old story of Besant’s with improvements, and very
bad improvements t 00... H.M.B. (Wyalong): Bad spel-
ling isn’t always humorous. Your sample is as common-
place as a yellow dog . .W.N.B. : We print one verse,
not for the sake of the poetry, but only to expose the evils
of drink:—
It ain’t like home, it’s more like hell
When father’s on the drunk,
We often hear the broker’s bell
When father’s on the drunk,
And things just now is awful bad
For father’s gone stark, staring mad
Along of this election fad —
You bet he’s on the drunk.
Besides, bailiffs aren’t called brokers in this country.
Are you sure you wrote that poem yourself—or was it
written in Hingland? J. Perkins: Will dig the vitals
out of your screed and publish them. The balance of the
meat is returned King Billy: Essay on the bull-ant
declined... R.D.H. (Wellington): One of them may do.
lsaac (Bundaberg): Dog lies are mostly very much
alike. Yours is even more alike than the average.
Says the Australasian :
An abridged edition has been published of the book on
the Irish Invincibles announced to be published by Tynan,
generally known as “No. 1,” and it contains some re-
markable admissions.
It all depends upon the way you put it. If the
book had been published in the Democratic,
instead of the Tory, interest the Australasian
would have said that it contained some “ remark-
able assertions.”
Dangers of Delay.
A Flagman upon the Railway delayed—the
express rushed on and a score of lives were
lost.
A nurse girl neglected the child in the park and
the little one was drowned.
A FATHER was so busy he had no time to think of
himself, and so common symptoms ran into a
fatal disease.
A mother was so absorbed by her children that
she did not notice her own danger until it was
too late.
A million people neglect and delay, when, if they
only realised, their whole happiness and very
lives are at stake.
A pain in the back, Lassitude, Melancholy, Faint-
ness, Irritability, Prostration, all indicate a
serious kidney difficulty.
A Headache, Coated Tongue, Irregularities,
Cold Feet, Weak Pulse, Constipation, unmis-
takably prove deranged kidneys or liver.
A delay or neglect at such a time may mean
everything—may mean life or death.
A prompt use of the only standard remedy for
such troubles, Warner’s Safe Cure, is the
part of wisdom.
“ A word to the wise is sufficient.” Are you one
who can accept a timely suggestion and hence
avoid the
Consequences of Neglect ?
To the Music Trade.
I have received several letters from New Zealand
and various parts with regard to sending my
“Duchess of York Waltz,” and Aug. W.
Juncker’s song, “I was Dreaming,” for sale or
return. I am sorry to say I cannot do that; not
a day passes but I receive a number of letters
enclosing postal orders for four shillings for one
copy of each, from persons in every part of Aus-
tralia. Consequently, I can only supply music
warehouses. When they order two dozen, and
send postal note, then I allow the usual trade dis-
count. I don’t give credit. Messrs. W. H.
Paling & Co., Ltd., of Sydney and Brisbane,
stock these lines Yours truly,
H. J. SAM CELL, 1
Publisher, !-
Sydney, N.S.W. J
Box 1077, G.P.O.


G
Publications.
GORGE ROBERTSON AND COMPANY,
‘ SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE,
BRISB \NE, and LONDON
NEW BOOKS.
Two Shilling Novel*, picture boards, posted two and four-
pence :
Gunter, a Princess of Paris
61ms. (G.R.), My Two Wives
Warden, A Wild Wooing
Linton, The One Too Many
Fane, Helen Davenant
Epps (William), Land Systems ol
Australasia
lodd. Parliamentary Government in
British Colonies
Crockett (S. R.). The Raiders, a
Scotch Historical Novel..
Ditto, ditto ditto, cloth
Crockett (S.R.), The Siickit Minister,
new edition ,
Ditto, ditto ditto, cloth
Rafter and Batger’sSewage Disposal
in U.S. ..
Louis, Gold Milling
A Policy of Free Exchange
Oliphant, Mrs., Lady William, a
Novel
Ditto, ditto, ditto, cloth
Steel (Flora Annie), From the Five
Rivers: Indian Tales
Tolstoi, The Kingdom of God
Ditto, ditto, ditto, cloth .. ..
Gibbins, Economics of Commerce ..
Mitford, The King’s Assegai..
Medical Annual, 1894
Maskelyne, Sharps and Flats
Besant and Rice, Sir Richard Whit-
tington
2s 6d posted 2s lOd
45s
48s
2s 6d
3s 6d
2s lOd
3s lOd
2 s 6d
3s 6d
2s lOd
3s lOd
and
Antipodean, 1894
Moderator’s Address, 1894 ..
De Lissa, Companies’ Work
Mining Law
Gibson, Ironbark Chips and Stock-
whip Cracks .. .. ..
Tucker (Rev. Horace), The New
Arcadia ..
Goldsmith (Henry), Our Alma
MTver, Neuroomia
Warung, Tab sof the Early Days ..
Ditto, ditto, ditto, cloth
Town Hall, Sydney: Steel Engrav-
ing, by Daniel Forbes .. _..
Majerdni (Signora), 'X Living
Statue
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,’ II Trova-
tore,” “Ees Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
WHMi
CUPI?
sdf
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl's Bathroom
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Kush for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post. 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
lions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 36; by post, 4/- Private Companion tor Married
People ; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Horae Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 76. Mrs. Besant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3,6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1,6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Holliok, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street. SYDNEY.
CHE A P MUS I C.
"THE DEAR HOME SONGS,” and “PLAY-
FELLOWS.” These Charming Songs and 1000 other
popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all
dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
203 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
WANTED, Complete Files of The Bulletin
of 1884 and 1887. Manager, Bulletin
Office, Sydney.
SOW HEADY, POST FKEE Is. 6d.
at
B
m ■
mu/ \
t
The ballet
GIRL 5 Her Thea-
trical and Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
India, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 2 2 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
‘•The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
fee had only of Madame Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
MONEY TO LEND
At LOW RATES of INTEREST by the
Iff.S.W. Mont die Piete
Deposit A Investment Company, Ltd.,
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(next door to St. James’ Schools), upon
Land, Watches, Plate, Jewellery, Furniture without Pos-
session, Bond Certificates, Personal Security, eto. Bills
Discounted Daily.
Advances made to Borrowers upon Reasonable Terms at
Low Rates of Interest, Repayable by Weekly or Monthly
Instalments.
tog- Pledge Rates of Interest obtainable on application.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
All communications to be addressed to the Manager, or
will not be recognised. _____ ___ _
OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Business Announcement.
COX <Sc SEAIiY,
Stock, Station, General Commission Agents and
Valuators,
Parbdrt’s Buildings, Eaglb Street, BRISBANE.
A WONDERFUL IHYSHfIOH.
THE CHEAPEST MACHINE IN THE
WORLD.
HANNAH’S PATENT
WATER-HEATER.
IT WILL GIVE A HOT BATH FOR ONE
HANDFUL OF CHIPS.
Water at any Temperature.
Suitable for Hotels, Dairies, Kitchens and
General Use.
Awarded First Prize at all Exhibition*.
Price, £3 each.
The following gentlemen
are using our Heaters : —Sir
G. R. Dibbs, Emu Plains;
Hon. H. Copeland ; Hon.
R. E. O’Connor; W. M'Mil-
lan, Esq.; N. Melville, Esq.;
Quin Currie and Co., Wil-
canm'a; R. O. Blackwood,
Esq., Jerilderie; M. C. Icely,
Esq,, Richmond; C. O.
Lamb, Esq., Parramatta;
S. R. Traill, Esq., Beecroft;
and hundreds of others.
■ J.'ll
Hannam & 00.,
QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
QUIT ERI O N THEATRE.
Another Criterion Success I
TO-NIGHT (and until Further Notice) TO-NIGHT
Shakespeare’s Charming Comedy
“A S YOU LIKE I T,"
with Miss HILDA SPONG as ROSALIND,
Supported by a Specially-Selected Company.
Superb Sylvan Scenery by W. B. SPONG.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s,
SR MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS I IMMENSE SUCCESS 1
of Mr. George Itlgnolrt in
“A.F T E ft. 13 A. R K.”
Supported by a Powerful Company.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
HE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
EVERY EVENING (at 7.45) EVERY EVENING
The Colossal Spectacular Drama,
“ A Life of Fleasure.”
By Henry Pettitt and Sir Augustus Harris.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Office at Nicholson’s.
THE AUSTRAL GALLERY
(Strand Arcade, Sydney).
Magnificent Display of Paintings Representing
Thrilling Scenes from the
BUSHBANGING DAYS,
Most Realistic Paintings and Exciting Events.
STRAND ARCADE (Centre of Thoroughfare).
Open Daily—lo a.in. till 10 p.m.
ADMISSION, One Shilling ; Children, Sixpence.
LBURY IMISSING WORD COMPETI-
TIONS. DOUBLE GUESSES—No 9.
“ The women of New Zealand are ambitious. Not satis-
fied with the voting privileges already Obtained, they are
now anxious to represent constituencies in Parliament.
The problem for serious consideration is, whether women
are equal to men in the matter of political
CLOSES THURSDAY, JULY 12.—Every Competitor
allowed two guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O.
Order, 1/1 if in stamps. No coupons necessary. Postal
notes other colonies preferred to stamps, with exchange
added. Total amount (less 10 per cent.) divided amongst
successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited, in a sealed envelope,
with Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known Albury Bookseller,
and opened in his presence.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W
NATIONAL
Agricultural and Industrial
ASSOCIATION OF QUEENSLAND.
NINETEENTH ANNUAL EXHIBITION
will be held at
BO WEN PA BK, BUIS BA NE,
on
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7th, 1894, Judging Day
WEDNESDAY, ~ Bth, „ Opening Day
THURSDAY, „ 9th, „
FRIDAY, „ 10th, „
General entries close on WEDNESDAY, July
18th, 1894.
District Societies’ Exhibits close on July 11th,
1894.
Late Entries close SATURDAY, July 28th,
1894.
For further particulars see programmes and
schedules, which can be obtained from the Sydney
office of this journal, or direct from the secretary,
HENRY C. WOOD,
Courier Buildings, Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Special Advertisements
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
TNTE BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
’ ’ maintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
DEPARTMENTS i
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ribbons, Laces, Ladies' Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing drapery, Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro-plate, Men's Ready-made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept)
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited.
We issue a little book on “Shopping by Post,” which is
to be had for the asking. Send ns a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
Send your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
nd will be as well served as if in town to select.
Finney, Isles & Co.,
Brisbane, Maryborough, Queensland,
And 64 Basinghall Street, London, E.O.
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Vol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Pro. Wm. O.
Leobe.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.’’—Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS. —Vol. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.’’—Prof.
Biroh-Hiksohfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S.
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats. Influenza, etc-
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto&Co.,
writes: —
It is lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
Election Notice.
CENTRAL ELECTION EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE
OP THE
PROTECTIONIST PARTY.
OFFICE :
15 OASTLERBAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FELLOW ELECTORS, -
The time has now come when a great and
patriotic effort has to be made in the interest of
our country to put an end to the foreign trade in-
fluence, which has, unhappily, dominated the
councils of this colony for so long, and which, if
allowed to continue, must inevitably make us
“ HEWERS of WOOD and DRAWERS of
WATER ” for European countries..
To make this great effort successful, leading
electors in the various electorates where there are
no Protectionist candidates should at once take
steps to select candidates, choosing intelligent men
of character from their own electorate, and where
this cannot be done, inviting men of repute from
other electorates to become candidates.
In this work the committee will gladly assist in
every way within their power.
All communications addressed to the Committee
will have due attention.
ARCHIBALD FORSYTH,
Chairman.
Established
1825.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
sd
In Patent
Air-tigrht Tins.
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Judge Molesworth, of Melb., declared himself
an opponent of the tote., some while ago, but his learned
arguments were the same old arguments parsons use,
only produced in a more flabby state. A parson, talking
upon the “ vice ” subject, doesn’t cramp his discourse by
trying to be rational, whereas Mr. Molesworth adopted a
man-of-the-worldly style in taking exception to betting-
machines. His trump-card was the danger of setting-up
a nice, respectable machine which would tempt women
and children to take a ticket on the course, and would
also tempt “ men, women, and children who do not go to
races.” As regards the men who don’t go to races,
there will be no totalisators (in Melb., anyway) for them
to bet with. And as for children on the course, the
totalisator can easily set Judge Molesw’orth’s fears at rest
by refusing to serve them, under the Act, just as respect-
able pub.-keepers refuse to supply them with drinks at
the bar. Seeing, then, that a bookmaker can never bring
himself to decline anybody's contribution to his bloated
bag. Judge Molesworth has unwittingly struck another
reason for recommending the more moral tote. In the
names of lovely woman and her innocent cheeild, The
Bulletin calls for the disestablishment of Ikey Mo 1
• « • «
Lord Rosebery’s horse, Ladas, was scratched
for all its Ascot engagements. It is the rule, rather than
the exception, for owners of the old-fashioned Conserva-
tive school to give their Derby champions a rest at this
particular time, when the ground is apt to be hard.
Political rumour, however, invented the inane hypothesis
that Eosebery had truckled to Nonconformist maw-
worms by thus holding Ladas in reserve. “The incident,”
gibbered the cable-man, “is regarded as possessing an
important social significance.” To most people it
merely seems significant of Rosebery’s turfy ambition to
win the St. Leger, a few months later. He has, no doubt,
considered well the influence of his racing stud upon the
“chapel” vote, and decided to let the sects do their
worst. Otherwise he would have sold Ladas and his
other horses three months ago, instead of laying himself
out for the Epsom coup, which was certain to set the
unco-guid snivelling. The chances are that Hannah
Rothschild’s widower would rather lose the Premiership
of G.B. than sacrifice the rapture of being associated
with a victorious horse, for he is but an earl and a horsey
man after all, and perhaps in his heart he considers Ladas
the brightest jewel in the British Crown as times go.
* ♦ * »
It seems anomalous that while Australia enjoys
a monopoly of the Indian market for bloodstock, and is
exporting sires to the United States, and a maiket in
South Africa is opening up, the St. Alban’s
send all the way to England for a horse like Bill of Port-
land,
• • * *
Dear Bulletin,— The leak in Tattersall’s sweep
seems becoming chronic. In Birthday Handicap a man
here drew Memah. A wire was received, from Tatts.,
dated May 23rd, and one from the owner, dated May 241 h,
a copy of which I append. Drawer did not know any -
thing about it till June Bth, as he was away in the hush
till that date. The complaint from the owner that h
could not get any money on seems hardly feasible, as,
according to the papers, her starting price was 14 to 1.
I - wonder what odds he expected 1 Copy of wire
“Believe you have drawn my mare, Memaii, Tattersall’s
sweep. What will you lay me first, second, and third,
unable to back her myself ?—Bertram E. Fenwick,
Adelaide-st., Brisbane.” As I consider this sort of thing
cannot receive too much exposure, I trust you will give
this a corner. At the same time, 1 can scarcely believe
that it is done with the sanction of Geo. Adams.—Yours,
Bumpkin, Dagworth, June 12, ’94.
♦ • ♦ »
The brothers M'Mahon have now in tow a talk-
ing horse. A bill should be put through Parliament to
make all horses talk. Then we might be able to put a lot
of owners and trainers in gaol.
» ♦ * ♦
It is getting hard to say how much weight it
will take to stop Pilot Boy. With 9st. 91b. up on Satur-
day at Rosehill he won the June Handicap pulling up.
This is his fourth win in succession.
« • * *
Sydney University footballers beat Pirates on
Saturday, but ip was nothing to brag about. The game
was a remarkably close thing. Just at the finish, Brown
had a shot for goal for the Pirates, and missed scoring by
a few inches. Hard luck, as it would have made the game
a draw. Wallaroo beat Randwick by 6 points to nil, and
Parramatta beat Glebe by 10 points to 8 points.
• • * *
“ Essendon’s success ” said “ Sonny ” Elms,
the South Melb. captain, “is solely due to their pheno-
menal goal-kicker, Thurgood. Put him out of the team
and we’ll dish them in every point of the game.” And
that is the real cause of this monopoly in Victorian foot-
ball. Thurgood put up over 60 goals last season, is a
straight, sure kick, and, without wind, always good for
60 yards. In addition to his goal usefulness he is a first-
class, all-round player, but unhappily spoils much of his
good work by unnecessary spitefulm ss.
• • * •
Cricketer Murdoch has been teaching the young
idea at ’ome how to bat, in a book he has just pub-
lished in London. He throws overboard the old formula
“ Always play a straight bat.” The essence of his screed
is; “Keep your left shoulder well forward.”
• • * *
On May 12 Australian Owen Sullivan and Jack
Burke, “Jonnel” Sullivan and Charley Mitchell’s old
opponent, fought with gloves at Johannesburg, when
Sullivan won in six rounds. There was heavy wagering,
as much as £lOOO to £5OO on Burke being laid in one
wager. Allowing for Burke’s years, the fact of a third-
rater like Sullivan beating him without receiving a scratch
strongly discounts the calibre of such men as John L.
Sullivan and Charles Mitchell with whom Burke fought
draws. Whilst Burke was in Sydney some years ago he
had a set-to with George Seale, when the amateur played
with Burke as he liked. Burke was regarded in Sydney
as a much overrated man.
• * • *
What sort of a hurricane middleweight must
Fitzsimmons be to beat Joe Choynski out of hand, as he
did at Boston, U.S., on June 18? In the fifth round Fitz
dealt out terrific punishment, flooring Choynski time
after time, when the police stopped the fight and saved
the Yankee from defeat. Choynski—a Hebrew, by the
wa y_was a remarkably clever and magnificently game
boxer when in Australia, and he is now described as
having developed into a heavy-weight and a much-im-
proved man. Fitzsimmons is chasing J. Corbett round
the world, egging him on to a meeting, and should
Corbett oblige him, Fitz may prove another edition of
Mace and Sayers, and show the big ’uns what a good
light man can do, although the odds are so much greater
against the lighter man in “ Queensberry ” than “ ring ”
rules.
♦ * * *
Pugilist Dooley belongs to that category in
which Macaulay classed William of Orange and the Duke
of Cumberland—the men who tight losing battles, yet
retain their prestige and popularity.


TATTERSALL’S
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLBJ.-JULY 7 ... 100,000 at &
FILLING RAPIDLY. FILLING RAPIDLY.
“ Timisiu/*
,Care of Oapaais Adams,
‘‘Th« Telegraph ** Chamber*.
tJUBEN STREET*
. ItrJsbanc, Queensland*
GOOD WINE
Within the reach of everybody. Sent to any address on
receipt of Cheque, Postal Note or Money Order for 18/-
(carriage extra), ONE CASE of One Dozen reputed Quart
Bottles of our famous
Superior SHERRY.
Securely packed in a strong case. Pure juice of the grapei
made in N.S.W., 5 years old, full-bodied, beautifu*
bouquet and very rich. Superior PORT, same terms.
Pure HOCK and CLARET from 12/- per doz. Store-
keepers and publicans at wholesale rates. Delivered free
in Sydney and suburbs. All kinds of wines kept. The
Targest Stock in Sydney, Price Lists on appli-
cation. U. IV.MES, N.S.W. Wine Merchant, 14 Castle-
reagh Street, SYDNEY.
To A. J. MUNYAKD,
CIVIL ENGINEER.
An important letter awaits you, care of Dr. Rondlb,
Rooty Hill, N.S.W.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,*' situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. ELLIS,
fsd
These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam of Copaiba, Oubebs or In-
jections and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
out inconvenience.
Sold by all Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. & Co.,
and
Australian Drug Co.
Each Capsule is
Stamped ‘‘
' FOOD W
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S LACTO-GLYCOSE
OR 3MCXX.SC FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE FRESH COWS MILK CANNOT: IE OBTAINED
\ Thai Goods are Me/ram. Animal Germs and keep good in arty Climate. To he obtained 'jrdm Ml 'Druggist* and. Stores.
f
sd
A Perfect Boon to the Afflicted! I
MO TIOUK DOCTORS. MO MOBE DBllfiS.
DR. A. W. HALL’S GREAT HYGIENIC DISCOVERY
for the Cure of Diseases without the use of Medicine.
This Wonderful Remedy, discovered by that Eminent Physician, Dr
A. W. Hall, is now causing quite a sensation throughout Austra-
lia its marvelous success in restoring health to suffering humanity,
is without a parallel in the World’s History, and is fast revolutioni-
sing the Medical Profession at the present day. Every man cannow
bo his own doctor and enjoy long Life, Health and Prosperity, free of expense to the end of his days.
Nearly every form of disease, if treated in time, can he cured by the use of this Wonderful Appliance ; in-
cluding, Constipation, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Headache, Liver Complaint, Kidney Disease,
Diabetes Gravel Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Pleurisy, Asthma, Consumption, Inflamation
of the Lungs, Catarrh, Influenza, Bronchitis, Fever and Ague, Malarial Fever, Typhoid Fever, Dysentery,
Diarrhoea, Cholera, Jaundice, Eczema Piles, etc., etc.—The Appliance complete, including Free Book of
Instructions sent to any address, Posyiaid and duly frcc,on receipt of P. 0.0. for Six Shillings, no further
outlay required - Address: Donald Kurt*, Manager, The Hygienic Institute, 264 Russell St., Melh.
r
I'll
I
RULY WONDERFUL.
A WELL-KNOWN CITY MAN
TESTIFIES.
THE GREAT INTERNATIONAL REMEDY.
After the most thorough and practical tests in
hospitals and elsewhere, St. Jacobs oil has tri-
umphed over all its competitors, and been pro-
claimed by men of eminence, including PHYSI-
CIANS OF THE HIGHEST STANDING, to
be the best external remedy in existence. The
fruits of fair dealing are being reaped all over the
world by the proprietors of St. Jacobs oil, and A
GRAND SUCCESS has been wrought out of
PURE MERIT. In every land St. Jacobs oil
has permanently made its mark as the STAN-
DARD REMEDY FOR PAIN. In Austra-
lasia, for example, testimonials continue to be
given every day in its favour by representative
men. Mr. P. Harris, of the well-known firm of
P, Harris and Co., proprietors of the City Gal-
vanising, Steam Stamping and Japanning Works,
Dean’s Place, Sydney, and sole manufacturers of
that household favourite, Fischer’s Patent Bath
Heater, writes to us as follows: “It gives me great
pleasure to certify to the efficacy of St. Jacobs oil.
Having suffered for a considerable time from
rheumatic pains in the shoulders, I was induced to
try St. Jacobs oil. The result was truly wonderful.
THE PAIN AT ONCE LEFT ME, and I have
not suffered any inconvenience since. I have
also used it with the best effect on ray horses for
strains and galls. The workmen in my factory are
never without a bottle of St. Jacobs oil, which
they simply swear by as A CURE FOR BURNS
FROM MOLTEN METAL, and cuts or wounds
of every description. I have spoken of its efficacy
to my friends, and all who have used id have con-
firmed my opinion.” It may be mentioned that
the operations of the workshops of Messrs. P.
Harris and Co. include the manufacture of all
kinds of utensils in tin and black iron; the gal-
vanising of all metal articles requiring such treat-
ment ; the working of tin of all kinds in quantities,
such as fruit-preserving cans, treacle tins, &c.; and
the preparation of japanned ware in every con-
ceivable form. The various branches of the work-
shops employ nearly 100 men, and the amount of
work done engages all hands to the best of their
capacity. We publish above a portrait of Mr.
Harris.
ST. JACOBS OIL ACTS LIKE MAGIC.
IT IS A SCIENTIFIC MEDICAL PREPAR-
ATION OF THE HIGHEST ORDER.
ENDORSED BY NUMEROUS PHYSICIANS
AND CHEMISTS.
ON SALE EVERYWHERE. 2s. 6d. PER
BOTTLE.
Dowridge’s Bona Fide 2 6.
George Street, Brisbane.
SPRING HANDICAP-Randwick, Sept. 1, 1894.
(SP” 5000 at 2 6
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE.
Flemington, July 7,1894. 10,000 at 2 6
CHARLEJ WESTBROOK,
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code: “WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
Colonies. Double and Straight-out.
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups—lo,ooo to 10 to 20.
Y.R.O. Derby and Melbourne Cup—s,ooo to 25 to 20.
tDO SHOOTERS.—Complete set of Reloading and Clean-
ing TOOLS, 12 gauge, central fire, containing de-
capper, re-capper, turnover, loader, extractor, powder and
shot measure, cleaning-rod, wire brush, jag, oiler, &c.,
free by, post to any part of Australia for 10s. 6d. stamps or
P. 0.0. A. J. POTTER, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Read this!— Croydon, 23/1/94. Dear Sir,—l received
the set of tools some time since. 1 have reloaded hun-
dreds of cartridges and found the tools work splendid
and could not wish for better. In fact, lam quite sur-
prised with them for the price. You are welcome to use
this if you wish.—Faithfully yours, SAMUEL STONE,
Croydon, Queensland.
3E3C. C3r-*
(LICENSED) CtJSTOIt-HOUSEi AGENTS:
Good* Cleared and Forwarded promptly to all farts:
Charges Moderate:
eagle Street, Brisbane. Q,
STAR
Grand National Hurdle Kace.— Flemington, July 7.
20.000 at 2 6 and 20,000 at 1.
130 Extra Ones. I 05 Extra Ones.
Caulfield G.N. Steeplechase.— Caulfield, August 11..
10.000 at 2 6 and 10,000 at 1.
Spring Handicap. —Randwick, September 1, 1894.
10.000 at 2 6 and 10,000 at 1.
Melbourne Cup.— Flemington. November 6, 1804.
50.000 at 2 6 and 50,000 at 1.
Address “STAR,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE, Q’land.
Government Notices.
. apartment of Public Works,
Sydney, June 26, 1894.
f I IENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 4.
Erection of Cottage for Wharfinger, Cofif’s Harbor
Bridge, Illgutherie Creek, road Forbes to South
Condobolin
Bridge, Watt’s Creek, road Cowrato Grenfell
Bridge, Pian Creek, road Walgett to Kercargo
Erection of Passenger Stations, Waiting Shedsand
other works at Bellinudgel, Mooball, Burrin
bar, Dunbible and Murwillumbah, Lismore-
Tweed Railway
Screwing up, Scraping, Painting, &c., Bridge
Lachlan River, at Cowra
Additions, &c., Tam worth Gaol
Alterations to Windows, &c., Hospital for the
Insane, Parramatta
Manufacture within the Colony, supply and erec-
tion of Pumping Machinery at Murwillumbah,
Lismore-Tweed Railway
Supplying and Fixing Hot-Water Apparatus,
Lands Office, Sydney
ANNUAL CONTRACTS, 1894.
(A deposit of <£lo in respect of each contract
to accompany tenders.)
Supply of
Oils, Paints, Colours, &c., Schedule No. 1. Sydney
District only
Oils, Schedule No. 1, to be manufactured in New
South Wales. Sydney District only
Oils, Schedule No. 2, to be manufactured in New
South Wales. Sydney District only
Oils, to be manufactured in New South Wales,
Hunter River District only.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 18.
Bridge, Mulbring Creek, road Sandy Creek t i
Mount Vincent
Rock and other Excavation for Widening and
Deepening the Evans River at the Iron Gates,
South Wood burn
Bridges Nos. 1,2, and 3 over Mulwarra Creek,
Sherwen’s Flat-road, road Tarago to Braid-
wood
Bridge, Cooradigbee River, road Yass to Tumut
Construction of Homebush or Powell’s Creek
Stormwater Channel, Contract No. 95 Sydney
Sewerage works
Purchase of Steamer, Punts, and other Snagging
Plant at Hay, Murrumbidgee River. Fresh
tenders
Construction of Iron Cove Creek Stormwater
Channel, Croydon Branch, Upper Section,
Contract No. 102, Sydney Sewerage.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2.
Construction of Timber Bridge and Needle Dam,
Tuckombil Creek Floodwater Offtake, South
Woodburn.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10.
Erection of Iron Bridge over Stonequarry Creek,
at Picton. (Plans, &c., will be ready for
inspection on and after 31st August next.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE,
[4343] Department of Mines and Agriculture,
Sydney, 12th June, 1894.
APPLICATIONS received in the Department
of Mines for permission to mine under
roads, &c., &c., under the Mining Act of 1874,
section 28.
T. M. SLATTERY.
Application No., 396; Date of Application, 11th
April, 1894; Date of Receipt of Application, 13th
April, 1894; Name of Applicant, J. M. Dodd;
Description of Land applied for: Part of water
and camping reserve 15073, notified 23rd January
1892, parish Darbalara, county Buccleuch, recently,
revoked, and now held by J. J. Quilter as an
annual lease; Extent, 80 acres; Purpose for
which Land is to be used : To mine for chrome.
Application No., 422; Date of Application, 17th
May, 1894 ; Date of Receipt of Application, 19th
May, 1894; Name of Applicant, J. C. Morley ;
Description of Land applied for : Part of water
and camping reserve 15073, notified 23rd January,
1892, parish Darbalara, county Buccleuch, recently
revoked, and now held by J. J. Quilter as an
annual lease, north of area applied for by J. C.
Welch ; Extent, 80 acres; Purpose for which Land
is to be used ; To mine for chrome.
Application No. 441 ; Date of Application, 4th
June, 1894; Date of Receipt of Application, Bth
June, 1894; Name of Applicant, R. Wright;
Description of Land applied for : Road running
from south-east angle of portion No. 453 northerly
to the north-east angle of portion No. 454, parish
Onrrajong, county Ashburnham; Extent, 3 acres
Purpose for which Land is to be used : To mine
for gold.
Application No. 442 ; Date of Application, 4th
June, 1894; Date of Receipt of Application, Bth
June, 1894; Name of Applicant, R. Wright,
Description of Land applied for: Commencing at
the north-east angle of H. H. Cooke’s application
No. 441, Parkes, taking the whole width of the
road northerly to north-west angle of portion
No. 449, parish Currajong, county Ashburnham ;
Extent, 8 acres; Purpose for which Land is to be
I used: To mine for gold.
There is some talk about the coming Grand
National meeting at Flemington. The big jumping races
seem to have lost less in public interest than the Spring
cups.
» * • •
The Dooley- Ryan fight at Melb., which practi-
cally decides the present Australian championship, was
won on points by the Sydneyite, after the full number of
rounds had been fought. Ryan had the advantage of age
and condition, though he was a full stone lighter and 2in.
shorter than his opponent, who also possessed all the
skill and experience. From the start it seemed a soft
thing for Dooley, who was a hot favourite, but a couple of
knock-downs by Ryan in the eighth and ninth rounds
levelled things a bit. In the twelfth, the elder man had
recovered, and had the Victorian “dead to the world,” but
he lost his opportunity and had to fight it out. Dooley
went through without a mark but Ryan’s head looked
like a badly-managed butcher’s shop at call of time. The
result of the fight would cause one to think that there
has been a considerable element of luck in either the
Quigley-Ryan or Quigley-Laing contest. As usual, the
dailies do not demean themselves by reporting the fight,
though they contain detailed cabled descriptions of
■craps between obscure niggers in the back-blocks of
Yankeeland.
• • • •
Larry Foley on Corbett and Jackson : “Corbett
is the better man, Jackson the better boxer. Corbett is
among pugilists the gentleman; Jackson is the despised
nigger. Corbett has behind him true friends, as cool and
brainy as himself. The nigger has nobody. So that,
should the men make a match, the fight will start from
the moment they sign articles. Then the Corbett
orow r d will be generous to their opponent; he will live
well—too well. Finally, Corbett will step into the
ring as fit as wise and honest trainers can make him;
Jackson as unfit as those same Corbett trainers can
manage. Out of condition the nigger is the worst fighter
in the world ; when he started working for me in the
quarry h ; nearly died from backache. But, were the
nigger in condition, how queer his lightning lead would
make Corbett feel 1 Corbett has never yet faced Jackson
in trim: Corbett beat Sullivan and Mitchell, that is, a
grog-wreck and a fat alderman. Yet, all things con-
sidered, I think Corbett will win.
Hori Grey can now hardly speak above a
whisper.
“Now is the winter of our discontent
made glorious summer by this son of York.”
Saturday last, 23rd June, was the 24th
anniversary of the death of the poet Gordon, at
Brighton, Vic.
At one Burke (Q.) polling-place Little had
a two to one majority, and yet he didn’t get in.
Unfortunately the total poll was : Little, 2;
Glassey, 1.
In view of the Vic. Influx of Criminals
Act, murderer Bertrand has, at the instance of
theN.S. W. authorities, been granted special per-
mission by the Government of Victoria to reside
in Melbourne should he so desire.
Parkes’ jealous sniffings at Dibbs’ Federa-
tion scheme are amusingly feminine. “Hi ’aven’t
read ’is scheme, but it was merely copied from one
of my crude magazine harticles.” Everything
now in politics is copied from something Parkes
said, or did, or thought of, and didn’t let on
about, years ago. It is related that George IV.
suffered from a hallucination that he had led a
charge at Waterloo, and was often heard to appeal
to the Duke of Wellington in these words,
“ Didn’t I, Arthur? ” The Duke’s reply might
be the reply of N.S.W. now to Parkes’ eternal
claims : “I have often heard Your Majesty say
so.” Apropos, Dibbs’ reply to Parkes in the
aforementioned matter is a backhander. “ I stole
my scheme from the Canadian Constitution, from
which Parkes stole his. The only difference
between us is that I admit the stealing and he
doesn’t. ” Or words to that effect.
President Carnot was stabbed by an Italian
Anarchist last Sunday at the unquiet city of
Lyons, and died a few hours afterwards. He
leaves behind him a good reputation as a true
Republican, an honourable gentleman, a strong,
silent, sagacious statesman, and his tragic
end will probably elevate him into godship. Gar-
field .was a good, honest, true-hearted, but rather
ordinary, man until he was shot, and then he
became a saint, a genius, and a holy martyr,
and pretty nearly half Lincoln’s reputation is
owing to his assassination. It will be the same
with the dead Carnot. The strongest feature
in his character was his indomitable patience ; he
knew well when to do nothing and wait. The use
of the knife by,his assassin was a curious reversion
to first principles, but the recent case of Marshal
Campos and many other cases like it has shown
that dynamite is an overrated and uncertain in-
stitution, which seldom destroys the person it is
intended for. The revolver, too, is generally a
failure, for the world is full of lamentably bad
shots ; and the elaborate infernal machine gener-
ally kills a dozen spectators and leaves the in-
tended victim uninjured. For a man who is
willing to throw away his own life the knife is
still the surest weapon.
Messrs. Troedel, Cooper and Co., of
Sydney, have struck anew device in electioneering
cards. These documents are printed in as many
brilliant colours as Joseph’s coat, and the candi-
date’s portrait appears in the corner. The firm
fixes him up to look like a beautiful and artistic
candidate, and takes care that his ears don’t stick
out too much, and tones down the blotches on
his nose, and otherwise makes him look as little
like a horse-thief as possible. Underneath him is
a view of Sydney Harbour, or an emu, or a
gallows, or any other irrelevant decoration, and
there is space left for a personal whoop, such as
“ Vote for Bilkins, the only really pure-minded
man on earth.” Considering that N.S. Wales is
a place where the candidate with the gaudiest
card has the best chance of winning there should
be money in this scheme.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
No auctions this week, but we have sold several lines
privately at prices fully up to rates ruling at last week’s
sales. The American import duty struggle is nearly over,
and can safely be said to have ended considerably in
favour of the wool-producers of Australia.
With the duty removed, not only the high-class wool of
our colony will be purchased on American account, but
we venture to predict that many of our medium clips
will find their way to the United States for conversion
into Yankee clothing.
Admitted that we still have the Argentine Republic to
compete against, the superiority of our wool must attract
American competition, and, in time, a firm improvement
in prices ruling at the Sydney wool sales must be
apparent.
We do not wish our producers to jump at the conclu-
sion that any immediate rise worthy of note will occur.
We are more inclined to think the improvement in prices
will be gradual. The outlook for next season is not half
so gloomy as some people imagine, and we think the new
wool will find a slight increase on last year’s rates.
Sydney, 21st June 1894.


SKINS
Kangaroo. Opossum,
AND ALL OTHER SKINS.
Babbit.
SKINS
BXTE2STSIV£!
PBEPABATIOHS FOB TECS COMIUG BBASOIfi
M‘BURNEY, WALLIS & CO.
N. M*HUKN15Y.
K. B. WALI.IH.
K. C. YUAN KB.
S. J. HEAD.
19 to 29 years with the hue Firttt
of Mart Sc Co., and Golds-
brought Mort & Co., Ltd.
Stores— Margaret Street and Circular Quay. Offices-Macquarie Street, Sydney.
OLUiCi Jll.ai.Qa,, .OB „ mra r,JU» a MHMRF.BS Of THE FIRM CONDUCT ALL SALI
The Beat House i„ the TWoLTeKBONAIWnT.ON to 0 F ™ E FIRM °°“
SUeeosKins and ButcHers' Frodnce a Speciality.
MT WRITE FOR
SALT-RHEUM,
or any other
SKIN DISEASE
Will quickly leave its victim, when the
remedy taken is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
k H Stahl, of Des Moines, la,, U. S. A.,
•savs: “My little daughter was, for seve-
ral years, afflicted with salt-rheum, none of
the many remedies prescribed by the physi-
%
%
v
m
m
i
a.
cians doing her any good. When we 1
about given no all hope of curmg her i
wife suggested the use of Ayei s baisa i
rilla. We tried it, and before one bottle h d
hppn taken a great change foi the better
was noticeable! We continued the treaty
meat, and a thorough cure was the result.
Sarsaparilla
Ayer’s l*ty
Admitted at the World’s Fair. *
Made by Dr. J.C.Ayer & Co., Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A.
p>ICYCLES
13 Qf all the BEST
MAKES.
CUSHIONS from «8.
p* nG u, m atica Ironi £ IX,
EASIEST TERMS. BEST HOUSE for REPAIRS.
Introductory Price given where not represented.
& Edge,
348 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fsd
GENTS’ STRAWS
_) X (_
Single and Double Brim,
From 3s. Gel.
GBINTT.’S T ER-A.I.
TRICE, Bs. Oil. AND 10s. 6d.
With Puggaree, 2 - extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
O M ,) uE O URY HATH hy USING
J}' MAGIQUE WASH.
All Colours from Light Brown to Black, 86.
A. MICHAU,
Hairdresser and Wigmaker, 78 The Strand, BVDNEY.
r I
tales of the convict system.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
111 Try It
CAFILLARINE!
Posted (under cover)
to any part of AuStra
lasia or New Zealand, (
price, 10 <i
Sole Agents:
X
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 Gcorge-st . Sydney.
[A CARD.]
ALFRED DODDS,
-dentist-
queen STREET, BRISBANE
(opposite " Courier ” Buildings).
Special Attention paid to Painless Operating.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
A PERFECT FOOD.
An artificial food for Babies should
contain every element of nutrition in
proper proportion, in order that the
growing child may receive nourishment
that produces a normal and proportionate
growth of muscle, bone and flesh,
Horlick’s Malted Milk is such a food.
It is made of the best Cows’ Milk, com-
bined with Wheat and Barley, specially
prepared and adapted to the needs of the
Growing Baby, who, when fed upon it
(not over-fed ), is far less liable to attacks
of Cholera-Tnfantum and Marasmus than
when other artificial or any starchy
foods are used.
sabi^s
Fed on Horlick’s Malted Milk (which
contains no starch) are always in good
health, and, consequently, never show
that crossness and peevishness which is
a sign of bad nutrition or ill-health.
Endorsed and recommended by the leading
Physicians of Englani and America,
Wholesale of
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.. Ltd., SYDNEY.
Of all Dealers.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
fifi
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
:s
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK,
AND
EVERY
CONCEIVABLE
SHADE,
FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
‘LOUIS’ Velveteen
Is essentially a ladies’
material, and surpasses
all Fabrics for the
adornment of women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME FABRIC
fig now in the Front
of Fashion.
KOTE WEIiI<.- Bach yard of genuine
u T.OUIS ” Velveteen bears the name, and is 8^ u 'd'^ ll
with a guarantee of wear. Ladies should reject aU
substitutes.
Hair Will Go Grey.
f
GOOCH'S
ELESIBIC WASH
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only Beirut necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Hair-
dresser, 296 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-sU).
Importer of human Hair,
Fringes Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
BENDIGO COGNAC DISTILLERY BRANDY.
THE finest Brandy the world produces. The only pure
GRAPE BRANDY in Australia, distilhd solely fr> m
wine, as ce lifted by the Victorian Government Excise
Department. . . ,
Each cask hearing a certificate to that effect signea y
the Excise Officer in charge of distiller.,.
Sole Agents for Bu’k and Bottled;
PKBKJNS & CO., Limited, lit! IS HANK.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
66 T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
_L nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state."
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
m oncefor 7 my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing lor a
trial, and IX WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98 O’Connell St., N.Adelaide, S.Australia
11. G. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
ms
glycerine
is INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Ib. and 2s. 6d.
M. BEETHAMaSON, Chemists.
Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
StoMARH
V
CROMARTY
Whisky
Greenlees Brothers
Oll&CUA lOHOON AND
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOB
AUSTRALIA.
Cr. A. COX & CO.,
AGENTS for the SALE of
Hotels, Country Stores
And GENERAL BUSINESSES.
Furnished Houses in City and Suburbs to Let.
Post O&ce Chambers, 114 Pitt Street, Sydney.
We cati furnish you
with particulars of
every Hotel or Gene-
ral Store in N.S.W.
.MIO KllglUll
Capital to wwi
on Country Proper-
tics.
VIGIOR
FOR EVERY, MAN!
Dr. UKO. Wai.su, li.R.O.t'. .v o.
, the most eminent Specialist in
1 Australia, treats successfully
h Exhausted Vitality, Atrophy,
JjtERYOUS AND PHYSICAL
DEBILITY, Varicocele, and all Oise».ses of Mitu
Without Stomach NE W 800 K
FULLY ILLUSTRATED. WRITTEN FOR MEN
ONLY, posted sealed, 6 stamps. author may be
consulted free. Address—Dß. GEO. WALSH,
ISI Collins Street, Melbourne.
LADIES!! I
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
89 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
DR. SPEER
Female Pills for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s. per box,
guaranteed O.K.
CIGARS!
SPENCER & CO., MADRAS.
The Largest Cigar Manufacturers in India .
As a Guarantee of the EXCELLENCE of their CIGARS. SPENCER & CO. have-in addition to the Awards gained by their
, , , for Bast CHEROOTS, Best DINDIOUL
Manufactures at MADRAS 1891. KIMBERLEY 1892, and MADRAS awanled PRIZE MEDALS HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY, held at
TOBACCO Bast LBNKAH TOBACCO at t„e ANNUAL EXHIBITION of tUAGRL
MADRAS, on the 24th FEBRUARY , 1894.
THREE PRIZE MEDALS
B ANNUAL. r.Atuiuiivns ... w.«
Anv of SPENCER’S TORPEDO CIGAR BRANDS can be obtained from the Sole Agents for N.S. ales :
Win-vnia. •X'OIUIVi: Jfe c?o.
A London hosier, now in Vic., whose
customers included Gladstone and Disraeli, says
that the late Liberal Premier always only paid Is.
per pair for his socks whilst “ Dizzy invariably
sported silk socks at 15s. 6d. a pair.
Take Marshall’s Tonic Nervine—to be
had from all chemists.
On a recent occasion Presbyterian Parson
Marshall, Melb., eloquently remarked;—“l
observe gleams of lightning along the dusky
horizon.” But the Herald comp, knew better,
and dished it up “I observe drams of tightnmg
along the drinking horizon.”
Dear Bulletin, —If (as J. H. J. M‘Gooey
maintains) the death-adder has no sting in its
tail, why do the blacks, when killing the adder,
use two tomahawks —one to cut the head off and
the other to cut off above the so-called sting in
the tail ? Both cuts are done at the same moment.
—Tall Boy, Q.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice-
EVOLUTION.
This Life’s one stage among the other stages,
One short, brief age among the other ages,
For us no state will ever be eternal,
The shell of Truth we know, we’ll never find the
Kernel.
HEKI.
Editor Bulletin. —You say: “Problem:
Whether a buckjumper can get the saddle off
without the girths being loosed ?” For a start, i
give you an incident which. I witnessed about
eight or nine years ago. A horse with the follow-
ing tackle on—viz., ordinary bridle with throat-
strap, &c., complete, saddle with two girths and
breastplate, but with no crupper (the saddle
tightly girthed, as the animal was known to be a
performer), was mounted, and immediately started
bucking properly, but the rider was a match for
him and stuck* to the pigskin ; gradually the
saddle worked on to the horse’s wither, then over
it, and then slid down his neck ; as it went over
his poll, the rider still sticking to it, the bridle
was carried away with it. Shaking his head free,
the horse cleared down the paddock without a
single strap on him, while on the ground was the
rider with the saddle still firmly gripped between
his knees, and holding the reins in his hands.
Upon examination, it was found that not a single
girth, strap, or buckle had been broken or loosened
in any way. The name of the rider is Mr. Walter
Warner, licensed surveyor, of Armidale; the
place where this happened is Lyndhurst station,
in the New England district; and the witnesses to
the performance were Mr, William Coventry,
owner of Lyndhurst, and—Yours faithfully, J. G.
Mautyn. Armidale, 31st May, *94.
The successful removal of Piles of the
most stubborn description is being effected by
Sharp’s new “Cannalin” treatment, large quan-
tities of which are being forwarded to sufferers
throughout the colonies. It is obtainable, with
advice, from 257 George-street, Sydney.
Mr. Sergeant Wilkins once defended a
breach-of-promise case for a singularly ugly little
man, which case, hetoldthedefendant, after reading
his brief, must be “ bounced ” through. And the
sergeant did bounce it through. “ Gentlemen of
the jury,” he said, at the close of a most eloquent
speech, “you have heard the evidence for the
plaintiff: and, gentlemen of the jury, you have
seen and have admired that most bewitching
plaintiff herself. Gentlemen, do you believe that
this enchanting, this fascinating, this captivating,
this accomplished lady would for one moment
favour the advances or listen with anything save
scorn and indignation to the amorous protestations
of the wretched and repulsive homuncu’us, the
deformed and degraded defendant?” His client
looked up from the well of the court and piteously
murmured: “ Mr. Sergeant Wilkins ! Oh, Mr.
Sergeant Wilkins ! ” “ Silence, sir ! ’replied the
sergeant, in a wrathful undertone. “ Gentlemen,
he continued, bringing his fist down heavily on
the desk before him, “do you think that this
lovely lady, this fair and smiling creature, would
ever have permitted an offer of marriage to bo
made to her by this miserable atom of humanity,
this stunted creature, who would have to stand on
a sheet of note-paper to look over twopence?
Instant verdict for defendant.


<• .... - . ,
HERR RASSMUSSEN, PH.D.
A Few Sketches of His Interesting Life and
Work.
Herr Rassmussen, who is known throughout
the world as “The Celebrated Danish Her-
balist,” was born in the little kingdom of Den-
mark, shortly after its last disastrous war with
Germany. His parents being wealthy, and
belonging to the most influential class, he
received a first-class education, and displayed
exceptional talent in the science of botany and
botanical chemistry, and very soon surpassed
everyone of his fellow scholars in those sub-
jects, and eventually made the science of botany
his life-study.
Finding his native country too small, and its
flora too limited to extend his botanical re-
searches, he left for Australia, and landed here
in the beginning of 1879. His first object was
to learn the English language and become
familiar with the customs and habits of his
adopted country, as well as with its botanical
history and medicinal flora. Herr Rassmussen
had quite his share of the troubles and difficul-
ties which usually befall a newcomer in Aus-
tralia ; but he soon overcame every difficulty,
and after five years’ travelling through all the
colonies, investigating every known Australian
medicinal plant, and discovering many new
ones, he eventually settled down permanently
in Sydney in 1888, and then commenced a
most noble mission—that of turning his most
wonderful botanical discoveries to the benefit
and relief of suffering humanity. Herr Rass-
mussen succeeded in this gigantic undertaking
far beyond all expectations, and his name very
soon became a household word, not only in
every Australian camp, village and city, but
also throughout Europe, Africa and America.
Space will not permit to mention the
numerous cures effected by his now world-
famed Alkaline Remedies, suffice it to say
that thousands of original testimonials may be
inspected by anyone at his Head Depot, 547
George Street, Sydney, many of which may
also be seen in his celebrated work, “ The
Natural Doctor.”
There is no doubt whatever that Herr Rass-
mussen deserves all the success and praise which
he has met with, because he is a most scientific,
conscientious and genuine herbalist—his last
ten years record being so wonderful that his
remedies must have cured more human suffering
in that period than is usually effected by a
hundred average doctors in a similar number of
years. He does not hold any consultation
similar to a doctor; his whole business is
purely a Proprietary Herbal Remedy Business.
He simply prepares a genuine herbal remedy
specially for the nerves, and another for the blood,
and so on, which can always be relied upon.
He prints on the box containing the remedy its
price and all advice as to doses and diet and
other particulars, and advertises same, which
is the fairest way possible to conduct a business
of this kind. Any information or particulars
desired are given or sent absolutely free of
charge. Pamphlets are sent post free to any
person desiring one, containing all particulars
and many useful and valuable hints on health.
Herr Rassmussen has very large branches
of his extensive business in Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.),
and throughout the world. He is an
honorary member of several scientific socie-
ties, a gold medalist, diplomee and Hon.
Oorr. Mem. of the Academic Parisienne des
Inventeurs, France ; last year he received the
Honorary University degree of Doctor of
Philosophy ; in 1887, he was presented with a
magnificent gold medal by several of his cured
patrons in Sydney, and also awarded a silver
medal in Denmark, 1888, a bronze medal,
Melbourne, 1893; and in 1891 he issued his
“ Natural Doctor,” a herbal medical work of a
high standard for which he received great
praise from the press, and which is now trans-
lated into many languages.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Ukoistkrkd and Guaranteed Cure for the
Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Loss of Memory, Despondency, Irritability, Specks
before the Eyes, Confused Mind and General Constitu-
tional Weakness.
A Powerful and Genuine Herbal Remedy.
Special Powerful Course, 43,6 (posted); Ordinary Course,
23,6 ; Hoxes, 12/- and 6/-
VALUABLE PAMPHLET SENT FREE,
gy Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. K3T" Testimonial*
Herr
547 George Street, SYDNEY.
Silas Harding was perhaps the richest
Victorian.
Goethe on suicide :—
Human nature has its limits. It is able to endure a
certain degree of joy, sorrow and pain, but becomes
annihilated as soon as this measure is exceeded. The
question, therefore, is not whether a man is strong or
weak, but whether he is able to endure the measure of
his sufferings? The suffering may be moral or physical;
and, in my opinion, it is just as absurd to call a man a
coward who destroys himself as to call a man a coward
who dies of a malignant fever.— Sorrows of Werther. I
Although the enlightened public who read
The Bulletin need not be cautioned against
doing this or that, in the way some papers lecture
their readers under the heading “ Caution,” yet
they will be thankful for the information that
there are so-called “Swiss cigars ” on the market
which are as complete strangers to Switzerland as
the substances they contain are strangers to pure
tobacco. Frossard’s genuine Swiss cigars are
manufactured at Payerne, Switzerland, with long
and pure tobacco, and contain no other substances.
Our packets of 25 cigars are bound by a yellow
paper, bearing our name and trade-mark.*
The new Bishop of Melanesia, after a visit
to Sydney Art Gallery, told a Telegraph re-
porter that the presence there of such pictures as
“ Rorke’s Drift ” served to draw closer the silken
bonds between Australia and the deah rnothah
countery. Then he went and got consecrated !—
Well, Bishop Wilson, p’raps you’re right—
When “ loyal ” sentiment grows fainter.
The bonds that bind us now so tight
Will be dissolved— we’ll cut the painter.
The N.S.W. Methodist bosses have issued
a political manifesto :—
Be true, then, to yourselves, your country, and your
God, and do your part to drive from the halls of legisla-
tion all the dishonest, immoral, and unworthy, and to
place in their stead men of conscience, integrity, and
honour. Such men are to be found who will accept your
platform and become one with you in principle. Give
your confidence to them and to them otdy.
Alas, we have heard it all before ! The men of
“conspicuous ” (because well-advertised) “ honour
and integrity ” of one year are the convicted con-
fidence-men of the next. To make your honour
and integrity conspicuous you must advertise it,
just as to make your blood-sausages or your soaps
and candles conspicuous, you must advertise them.
The Bulletin advises the electors to vote for
nobody who shaves his upper lip or grows a
monkey-beard, both whereof are part of the uniform
of self-advertising self-righteousness. On the
whole, perhaps, it is best to vote for bold, bad
brazen men who have been more or less found out.
Australian
Mutual p ROVIDBNT Society.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
In Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors:—The Hon.
WALKER, Esq. ,
JOSEPH ABBOT
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
The ™™ U f ULATED FuNDS Twelve Millions sterling
JNUh for the One Year 1893 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £448,790*
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £910,000.
lleaa Office: 0 7 Pitt Sl;reet, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
What defeated the S.A. National Ass
party at recent L.C. elections was chiefly its
advocacy of non-payment of members. Ass poli-
ticians denied that such was its policy, but
thousands of circulars were issued which proved
that the Tory league was playing a double game,
and_ intended at all hazards to secure a majority
against payment in S.A. Upper House. This
exposure smashed the league’s chances.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
Editor Bulletin. —Surely the following is
deserving of some publicity, even in Australia.
Last Nov. a man was arrested in Bowen (Q.) for
alleged larceny, and was committed for trial.
Having no friends, he was unable to obtain bail,
and, owing to postponements, etc., of the District
Court, he lay in gaol for seven months. Last
week he was tried, found not guilty, and dis-
charged, without prospects of redress of any kind.
The for the delay is that the Judge who
takes this circuit was sick. But at Townsville, 90
miles away, two Judges are constantly in attend-
ance. I state the facts as they appear.— North
Queensland.
sdf
SOFT CANVAS SHIRTS
FOR STATION WEAR.
Unshrinkable and almost Indestructable.
Sample Shirt Delivered Free to any part of
Queensland on receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, B 6.
37/6 per Half-Dozen. Write for Patterns.
PIKE BROS.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
sd
[ADVERTISEMENT.]
Woggonora Building Society.
WHEREAS, a number of Books, containing
Share Certificates, have not yet been returned by
the agents holding them, the Committee of
Management are unable at present to fix a date
for drawing, or otherwise dealing with, the prizes.
Circulars have been sent to all agents, urging the
immediate return of their books. Meantime,
tickets may be obtained from the Secretary at
Cunnamulla.
By order of the Committee of Management.
GEORGE STORY,
Secretary.
Cunnamulla, 12th June, 1894.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
assgtf® B ?^
**2
Sj
■ ' _
RESTORES
Color, Fullness, and Beauty
TO HAIR
Which has become Wiry, Thin, or Gray.
It cures Itching’ Humors, and keeps the scalp cool,
moist, healthy, and
FREE FROM DANDRUFF.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor is an elegant toilet article, —a
favorite with ladies and gentlemen alike.
It imparts to the hair, beard, and mous-
tache a beautiful silkiness, and a delicate
and lasting fragrance.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
All Druggists and Perfumers.
Beware of cheap imitations. The name—Ayer —is prominent on the
wrapper, and is blown in the glass at the bottom of each bottle.
I:::;.-
i ijiiii
ji i!i ! | 111
{ji ! I S
II.:!!
CLOTHED WITH AIR”
CELLULAR AERTEX CLOTH is composed of small cells, in which
the air is enclosed and warmed by the heat of the body, a perfect
non-conducting layer being thus formed next the skin. Owing to the
cellular construction, this cloth is much lighter and better ventilated
than ordinary fabrics, easier to wash, and a positive safeguard against
Chills.
Ladies’ Cellular Nightdresses
(Trimmed with real Torchon Lace) made in
COTTON, LISLE THREAD, SILK and COTTON, NATURAL WOOL,
MERINO, and SILK and MERINO.
Prices from 9s. to 30s.
Combinations, Corsets, Petticoats, Bodices, Vests, Drawers, Stockings,
etc., etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC by the YARD or PIECE.
Price Lists, Pamphlets and all particulars,
Cellular Clothing Depot,
(Nearly opp. Hunter-street) 305-307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Baker’s Patent Boundary Eider’s Sheath Knife and Steel
SB
- Jwb
*
ms-
m>
(Length over all, 10 inches).
No. 1. ORIENTAL DESIGN .. .. 18/6 each
No. 2. Plainer Finish 7 'jj eao h
Posted Free throughout the Colonies.
Illustrations and Prices of Cutlery sent Post Free.
•W. Jno. Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist’s
Wonder fa I Discoveries .
AWARDED
;T,WO GOLD
Imedals
sSuss
ss^a
fci fl
m
ANK
PE
ofH
umi
38
ALFA LINEPILLSf
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD t* NERVES.
Herr HASSMUSSEN,
HEAD LABORATORY:
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
It is well-known that Herr Rassmussen, the
Celebrated Danish Herbalist, has devoted most of
his lifetime to the study of preparing excellent
remedies from medical herbs, and the thousands
of Permanent Cures effected by his Alfaline
Remedies, especially Blood and Nerve Affec-
tions, Rheumatism, Piles, and
Debility and Nervousness
has made the name of Herr Rassmussen familiar
and welcome in every Australian household, and
the general verdict of the Australian public and
press is, that “Herr Rassmussen has, for the last
ten years, served us well and faithfully, and cured
more sufferers than all others put together," and,
considering that he has received over
100,000 Testimonials,
the originals of which may be inspected at hi*
Head Depot, as well as his Parisian Academy
Diploma and Gold Medals, no sufferer could do-
better than to call upon, or send to Herr Rass-
mussen immediately for his free
“Natural Doctor,”
a medical work which gives the complete mode'
of self-cure for the most obstinate Blood and
Nervous diseases, and which is sent anywhere-
free and unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Nervous Complaints.
Herr Rassmussen has been exceedingly successful
in discovering a real Cure for all Nervous Affec-
tions resulting from Early Follies, Debility, and
known by the following symptoms Specks
before the eyes, giddiness, want of vigour, fullness
after meals, pains in the back, blushing, headache,
without ambition, foul breath, exhaustion, poor
memory, easily excited, irritable, always tired in
the morning, confused brain, and weak nerves and
spine. Such sufferers should immediately send
for Herr Rassmussen's world-renowned Herbal
Nerve Cure, known as the neverfailing
Alfaline Vllalil.v rills,
as they are a guaranteed and permanent cure, and
have been the means of restoring thousands to
Health, Strength, and Vigour.
Those About to Marry,
who suffer from any of the above symptoms,
should immediately take a course of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to enable
them to marry honourably. Should they suffer
from any taint in the blood, or have suffered from
any bad
Skin or Blood Disease.
manifesting themselves inSores, Blotches, Pimples,
Discharges, Strictures, &c., then it would be
necessary to take a course of his
Alfaliue Lock Pills,
which absolutely purifies the blood, cleanses the
skin, stops all discharges, and removes all spots
from the skin. Varicocele Powder, 6/- posted.
The Vitality Pills or the Lock Pills are sold as
follows : —Special Powerful Course, 43/6 ; Ordinary
Course, 23/6; Smaller Boxes, 12/- and 6/-; posted
unobserved and duty free. Lock Globulus, Box 6/-.
Thin People,
wishing to get fat, should send for the Alfaline
Flesh Producing Powder. Packet, 6/- posted.
Rheumatism
cured for ever by taking his Alfaline Rheumatic
Pills. Boxes, 3/-, 6/- and 12/-; Courses, 23/6.
Liver and Kidney Affections,
cured completely by taking his Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills. Boxes, 1/6, posted.
Piles
eradicated, both bleeding and blind, external and
internal, by taking either his Alfaline Internal
or External Pile Powders. Packets, 3/- and 6/-,
Send for Pamphlet. Pile Ointment, 1/6 and 2/6.
Female Complaints
cured by his Alfaline Universal Pills. Special
Course, 43/6; Ordinary Course, 23/6; Smaller
Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Complexion Powder, 6/- posted.
Fat People,
desiring to become thin (as corpulency is not only
very unhealthy, but also gives a much older
api>earance to persons), should s«ud for a 6/-
packet of the Alfaline Fat Redu/vn£ Powder.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier
restores the Hair, eradicates Dandruff, and pre-
vents the Hair falling off. Packets, posted 6/-.
All Herh UASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only he obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned below.
Correspond#nce hold Strictly Confidential, and
Remedies and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover.
Any advice desired sens free. These Celebrated and Regis-
tered Herbal Remedies have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans It ass -
iiiiisscn. Register all letters containing money, Sydney
P. 0., Box 20S—Telephone, 408.
Herr Hassmussen,
Chief Head Office,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Intercolonial Branches:
Victouia—lso Bouiike Street. Melbourne;
Queensland—loo Queen Street, Hhisrank;
S. Australia—ls 4 Bundle Street, Adelaide;
N. Zealand—ol Lamuton Quay, Wellington;
W. Australia—Central Buildings, corner
Hay and William Streets, Perth.


As if to mark its contempt for the Ottawa
Conference, the British Govt, has appointed as its
representative “a man named Mercer,” a second*
clerk class in the Colonial Office.
All the rage in Paris. Latest Parisian
Srevontative posted in sealed letter, 1/2 stamps,
rational Drug Co., Russell-st., Melbourne.
Magistrate Call, of Melbourne, just de-
parted, never held up his head after his accom-
plished wife was burnt to death. Their daughter,
a married lady, is now an actress, in England.
“ The sanofclfled idleness of Church Is con-
ducive to the birth of love.”
Nervous sufferers will And it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmuason’s advt. on page
17 of this issue.
Heraldry, according to Robert Lowe, is the
only subject in the world that is not worth the
trouble of learning. Lowe, as Lord Sherbrooke,
was doomed to adopt a eoat-of-arms, but there is
no evidence that he didn’t despise the man who
designed it for him.
OUR
(HAI\GES ARE OF THE IgWEST
Service 15 the Best*
0
Jirnited •
George Maiden: manager •
Sydney*
Hi
°oi
•STATION yVOENTS*
fsd
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Company, Ltd.
Melbourne, 18th June, 1894.
To the Constituents of the Company.
Dear Sirs, — , , _ ...
On the 11th July, 1893, I informed you of the suspension of the Company for the purpose
/>f Reconstruction, and asked you to entrust the sale of your Wool and Produce to Lhe New
Zealand Land Association, Limited. I now have pleasure in informing you that the scheme
of Reconstruction of The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Company, Limited,
has been sanctioned by the High Court of Justice of England, and is now complete; and that,
acting under instructions from the Directors in London, will be resumed at all the
branches in Australasia, in the same premises and by the same officers and staff, as and from
this date. , ,
In terms of the Scheme of Reconstruction, the new Company will be possessed of a
Capital (Paid-up) ... ... ... 1,380,C00
Capital (Debenture Stock, Perpetual) 4,500,000
Making an aggregate Capital of ... £5,880,000
all of which can be safely employed in the business of the Company, seeing that its creditors
have accepted Debenture Stock (ptrpetual) in full settlement of their claims. .
In addition to the great security afforded to constituents by its large Capital, exceptional
protection is given to Wool Growers and others, who may consign Wool or other produce to the
Company by the inclusion of the following Clause in the Memorandum of Association of the New
P y “To sell or otherwise deal with on commission any live and dead stock, wool, or
other pastoral, farm or agricultural produce or any merchandise or other property
of any description, upon any terms as to remuneration or otherwise that may seem
expedient, and particularly upon terms whereby the property in question and the
net proceeds or balance of net proceeds of any sale thereof or other dealings there-
with or any property representing the same are to be held by the Company as
Trustees for the special account and on the special behalf of the principals, and are
not, except to the extent of the Company’s beneficial interest therein, if any, to be
in any way subject to any obligations, debts, or other liabilities of the Company.
It is a source of great gratification to the Officers of the Company and myself that, with
hardly any exception, its constituents have, during a period of exceptional difficulty m its
history, been loyal to it; thus proving in the most practical manner possible their approval ot the
manner in which the business has been conducted, and their confidence in its managemen .
In now announcing the resumption of business by the Company, I ha y° ask our con-
stituents to extend to it the same sympathy and support that they have accorded to the manage-
ment in the past, and for which I take this-the first— opportunity of tendering them my best
thanks.
Yours faithfully,
DAVID ELDER,
General Manager for Australia .
LEPROSY.
Cezeina Erysipelas. Cancers, Ulcers. Itch, Smallpox, Blotches Scurvy, Scales Pimples, Freckles,
rS filiSs Kidney and Liver bisorders, Fits, Piles. Swellings, Gravel, Private Compla nts,
Jrinary Trouble, Bright’s Disease, Indigestion, Heart Palpitations, Bronchitis, Consumption,
)iphtheria, Asthma. Neuralgia. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Chilblains, 'Hands.
Jii-OOH r.S*. 1 LEP&JSY .id fcIVATE COMPLAINTS it expel. .11
~.purities from the blood, destroys all disease gems, doanses. heals, and 10/fi laf ’
.stores the HAIR quickly and luxuriantly. Unobservable packages, sent anywhere, 10/6, 14/-, 21/-,
2/ 84/- Dr KOCH’S marvellous MILOOH blood or skin purifier, 4/-, 7/6. On receipt of 105/-
re send a complete supply of Dr. KOCH’S MILOOfI remedy to anv address in Australasia,
warranted to rapidly and thoroughly cure any disease, if its symptoms, ami supposed origin, are faith-
ceurables perfectly restored. Heaps of testimonials. P.O. orders, cheques, drafts, or cash. J.
;iTZ ft CO.. 74 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY, sole Australasian agents. N.B. No skin eruptions
hould be neglected, LKI’ROSV is spreading alarmingly.
■J^OTIOB
Government Notloee.
OP FORECLOSURE UNDER
REAL PROPERTY ACT.
Lulhe matter of the application of Messieurs Dalgetty and Company Jer 2l1 1 405
memoranda of mortgages from Francis Arthur Badgery and Charles «os wo
and 218,561, dated respectively sth May, 1893 and 11th September 1^ cl ompnsea m
Certificates of Title, vol. 1093, folios 222 to 225 inclusive, and vol. m 2, foreclosure of the
WHEREAS the abovenamed mortgagee has made application.for an order other faote, as
mortgage above referred to, accompanied by such evidence of default . t xu that
required by section 113 of the Real Property Act; Notice is hereby g,P „ ere( j an( j w jjj regain
the land comprised within the said mortgage, as hereunder particularise , which
open for sale until the 27th July, 1894, which date has been appointed as the ti l “»
I, the Registrar-General, will issue to the applicants an order for foreclosur , them un i eBB
claim by the abovenamed mortgagor, and of any other person claiming t £ satisfy the principal
in the interval a sufficient amount has been realised by the sale of such land Jo satisfy JeW
and interest moneys due, and all costs and expenses occasioned by such proceedings, and interest up to
the time of such sale.
street, Sydney.
DW at Sydney thi. 16th day of Jane, 1894. .t the e gf^^gtrar-Gener.l.
N
OTIOE UNDER REAL PROPERTY ACT.
APPLICATIONS having been made to bring the lands hereunder described underthe pro
of the Real Property Act, Certificates of Indefeasible Title will issue, unless Caveats be lodge
Form B of the said Act, on or before the date named opposite each case respectively.
Property.
Name of Applicant.
Residence.
Date up to and
inclusive of
which Ca vea t a
may be lodged.
No. 9292. Parish Londonderry, lots Nos. 40,
59, 77, 78, 80, 114, 150, 186, 206 to 211, and
231 to 237 of the Berkshire Park Estate.
Also, lots in section A and B of the Phillips
Estate Subdivision, in the parish of Banks-
town, part of Edwards’ 320 acres grant.
Also, various lots in the Richmond Park
Estate, parish of Londonderry, parts of 150
acres granted to Charles Hadley.
No. 9291. Parish Gordon, 41 acres —com-The
prises the land granted as 40 acres to Joseph
Roberts, reserving thereout the road coloured
brown on plan.
No. 9357. Darlinghurst, 4| perches, at the
junction of Liverpool and Victoria streets,
adjoining the premises of Mrs. Quinlan.
The National Bank
of Australasia.
__ National Bank
of Australasia.
Alexander
Ross.
Branda
Nowra
31 Aug., 1894.
31 Aug., 1894.
81 Aug., 1894.
Diagrams delineating these lands may be inspected at the Land Titles Office, in iza e s ret ,
Sy DS at Sydne, thi. 22nd day of June, 1894, at th.
N'
OTICE OF FORECLOSURE UNDER REAL PROPERTY ACT.
Inthe matter of the application of The National Bank of Australasia, mortgagees under memorandum
of mortgage from Samuel Allardyoe, No. 172,751, dated 24th October. 1890, over the whole of the
land comprised in Crown Grants, vol. 64, folio 28, and vol. 169, folio 100. , - ,
WHEREAS the abovenamed mortgagees have made application for an order for foreclosure ot toe
mortgage above referred to, accompanied by such evidence of default for six months and other facte,
as required by Section 113 of the Real Property Act: Notice is hereby given,
Act, that the land comprised within the said mortgage, as hereunder particularised, is offered an
remain open for sale until the 3rd August, 1894, which date has been appointed as the tune or
after which, I, the Registrar-General, will issue to the applicants an order for foreclosure, which will
exclude all claim by the above-named mortgagor, and of any person claiming through or under ,
unless in the interval a sufficient amount has been realised by the sale of such land to satisfy the p -
cipal and interest moneys due, and all costs and expenses occasioned by such proceedings, and interest
up to the time of such sale.
Description of Property.
Last day limited
for Payment.
Amount to be Realised.
27 acres, being portion 9, and 208 acres, being por- .£9Bl 7s. 2d., being principal
tions Nos. 5 and 7, situated on the Murray River, and interest, together with
in the parish of Tooumwal and county of Denison.! costs and expenses. Interest
I up to time of sale to be
added
3 August, 1894.
A plan and further particulars may be obtained at the' Land Titles Office, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Dated at Sydney, this 22nd day of June, 1894, at the s department.
i ' \ Registrar-General.
'■ Department of Fisheries,
Sydney, Bth June, 1894.
IT is hereby notified that the Leases for Oyster Culture enumerated hereunder arei ready for issue,
and on production of receipt showing that) the lease fee of ill, and stamp duty 2s. 6d., has been
paid into the Treasury, the leases will be forwarded h^ jjg "t'h^O°MPSON*^ 68 dellVery ‘
Chief Inspector of Fisheries.
Leases under Section 4, “ Oyster Fisheries Act, 1884.
Property.
Name of Applicant.
No. 8731. San Souci, 1 acre 2 roods 22J
perches, in Plimsoll and Vista-streets, com-
prising lots Nos. 1 to 4 and 7 to 9 of section
No. 7 of the St. Kilda Estate.
No. 9302. St. Peters Railway Station, 3
roods 3J perches, 16£ perches, 36| perches,
18£ perches, and 7 perches, comprising lots
Nos. 1 and 2 of section No. 1, Nos. 1 to 17
and 33 of section No. 3, Noe. 1 to 5, 10 and
11 of section No. B, of Goodsell’s Estate.
No. 8964. Parish Bringelly, 320 acres 0 roods
20 perches, on Badgery’s Creek, comprising
270 acres, granted to Sarah Howe, and parts
of James Martin’s 80 acres grant, and John
Reeves’ 100 acres grant.
No. 9128. South Wagga Wagga, 2 roods,
allotment No. 14 of section No. 1, granted
to George Pratt. .
No. 9269. Mudpee, 39| perches, in Market
street, adjoining the premises of 0. B
Young, N. Rowell, and D. M. Campbell-
is part of allotment No. 7 of section No. 3,
granted to Samuel Augustus Perry.
No. 9347. Near the Broughton Creek Village
Reserve, 66 acres 1 rood 24 perches, parish
of Broughton, granted to Laurence O’Toole.
No. 9351. Newcastle, 10J perches, at the
junction of Merewether and Hunter-streets
west, is lot No. 183 of section A of a sub-
division of the Australian Agricultural
Company.
Rowland
Shelley
Benjamin James
Mansfield
William Co x
Margaret
Tingcombe
Abraham Rodgers
Residence.
Tumut Plains
Sydney ...
Balmain...
William
Morrow ..
Annie Narrandera
Paddington
ffipnr y Omega
Annie Pearson
. Newcastle
Date up to and
inclusive of
which Caveats
may be lodged.
20 Ju1y,1894.
20 July, 1894.
24 Aug., 1894.
24 Aug., 1894.
24 Aug., 1894,
24 Aug., 1894.
24 Aug., 1894
Diagrams delineating these lands may be inspected at the P.and Titlen Office, in Elizabeth-street,
Sydney. Dated at Sydney this 6th day of June, 1894, at the Department,
oyuney. j J CHARLES PIN HEY. Registrar General.


Itcst lor the Wearied
ell
Soles by trying
I s *
s
(Registered,) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
Vor Ladies, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPJ
MEASURE
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE
GISTERED
IMITATORS
m
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
No matter how far in the interior you reside, ELLIS'S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample tread,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY-they are a ‘‘going con-
cern ” from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw” or blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items; Gent’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (tor office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s fid ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s fid ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s fid; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s fid; Primes! French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s fid, Tops for ditto, 12s fid ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Biding
Boots, 46s fid (worth £3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s fid ; Three-quarter ditto, 26s fid; Half ditto,
23s fid ; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
fid ; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s fid ; Ladies’ and Children’s
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies’ Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto, E.S., 16s fid. In stock—
Ladies' Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d : Nice Glace Oxford Shoe, 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep. Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s fid.
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
“I am pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me ; make me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.”
“Your boots are the best I have ever worn, both for
comfort and durability.
“ FRED. T. BERMAN, Public School, Coonatnble.”
“ The boots are a perfect fit, and beautifully finished.
“A. M'MILLAN, Warri, Coolamon, N.S.W.”
“There can be no two opinions about Ellis’s Boots,
they are the best we have ever had.
“GEORGE GUEST, senr., Boggabri, N.S W,"
SPEGIALCOUPONS
Cut this Coupon out, for*
ward with your measure-
ments and remittance, and
the goods will be mailed
‘ free.
ONC COUPON win
secuse any
number of pairs
as desired.
tuis
COUPON
AT/ CUll\l£ A
. BALMORAL
MEASUfiC
TO
onST FR&Jjn
arr
KIOLE 0,
■ft >
COtfPon
* l“"‘ **»•« H
L t
Po%f fßee
SLIP®
fAt"
lb/6
Cfo *
f/an
/fit
fc=y
Mo
o*
Z L *CB
To .to
ve
hid
<We
f u
is
LAOlg
c OJJPqi u
hiqh
BALMoa*
*io Lee
F, *ec/ \ L *
VAMPS
WORTH 2S /-,
POST FREE t _
WEASS
6/6
Special Notice 1 Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
£lOO One Hundred rounds! <£loO
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. £8; sth, do. £2; 40 prizes, value Pleach;
10 do. at 15s. each; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Add exchange on Intercolonial Postal
Notes.
T. 18. ELLIS
548 GEOEGE STEEET
(opp. Town Hall),
SYDNEY,
And at 57 HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
NEWMAN’S ATELIER
FOR
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
314 GEOBGE -STREET
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
Hub ert UNTe wman
(Late of Oxford-street), Proprietor.
Bodalla Cheese.
O-A-UTZCOZEsT.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
Rears the Registered Rraiid ot the Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent:
JOHN SHEARWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
54
TBARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- ELIDBIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOlllt STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
•THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used hy
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig 1 docks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
AMIRI li OIL Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
080 & Cs 3 George Street, Sydney.
-THE-
Wentworth Hotel
m
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
Medical.
Healthy women and happy
CHILDREN.
The great E..glish Astrologist, Mme. DE RAYMOND,
reads your character without a question or mistake; with
as much ease as if she had known you all her life. Re-
main not in darkness and ignorance, but seek the light
of knowledge, and learn what the future holds forth for
you. Like a meteor flashing across the darkest sky, this
brilliant Astrologist Visits Australia for the First Time to
impart the power, and the hitherto unknown knowledge,
which will dispel i.he heavy gloom and bitter woe from
thousands of blighted hearts.
Every mother should know the innate nature of her
child, the planet under which it was born, the un-
developed temper, the unformed habits, the particular
trade or calling it is best adapted for, to what sickness,
dictated by the heavenly bodies, it is heir, according
to its nature.
Mme, DE RAYMOND
has been pronounced in Europe and America as the
greatest living wonder ot the present age.
If you are sick or in trouble, if you are involved or
unhappy she will make Life Worth Living.
»** 303 CROWN STREET, SURRY-HILLS ***
(opposite Public School). Hours—lo a.m. to 8 p.m.
Parlors Strictly Private. Pee, 2/6; Written, 5/-.
It UNABLE to CALL, send DATE ot BIRTH.
Business Announcements.
aWti
—Established —
HALF-A-CENTURY!
(Smith # Manncll,
SHIRT NAKEKN,
HOSIERS & MERCERS,
298 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Shirts to Measure or Pattern.
From 50/- Half-Doz.
A 1 WHITE SHIRTS
(Ready-made).
Unequalled for Value from
30/- the Half-Doz.
InstructionsforSelf-Measure-
ment posted free on applica-
tion.
** A Trial Solicited **
LADIES’ NEW FRINGE
(with Invisible Parting).
PRESENT FASHION. 21/-, 30/-, 43/-.
A. Mivh.au, Wigmaker, 78 The Strand(lst floor), Sydney
IRBL AKTD’S
“ ROSEBUD ”
CREAMERY^
Agents: GARRAD & BOOTH,
230 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
OUNCE
3/
Fit every head perfectly the first time-they are tried on,
and weighing only 3 to Sk oz. Are a luxury to wear. The
Registered Trade Mark, as above, is stamped on the tip of
every hat, without which none are genuine.
a.
EC. Smitla & Sons,
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Ageies for Australia.
'&£A67i
John Lawler and Sons,
Wire Mattress & Bedding Manufacturers,
UPHOLSTERERS and CABINETMAKERS,
Importers of
BEDSTEADS —Iron, Brass and Pearl-mounted
English FURNITURE
Austrian CHAIRS—PIain and Fancy Designs
American CHAIRS—PIain & Embossed Designs
Carpets, Linoleums and Floor Cloths
Hearth Rugs, Mats and Matting
Java Kapok, Curled Hair, Fibre and Flax
BAMBOO BLINDS —White, Green and Skin
White Cane Chairs, Lounges, Tables and Settees
TAPESTRIES, Plushes, Hair-seating & Cretonnes
Spring Blind Rollers, Hollands, Cords & Fringes
Cornice Poles, Lace and Tapestry Curtains
OVERM ANTELS —Oak, Walnut and Mahogany
TOILET GLASSES and COMMODES
TOILET SETS in various Colours and Designs
MANGLES
STOVES
JAPANNED TINNED TRUNKS
Warehouse:
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bulk Stores and Steam Factories:
Nos. 2,4, G, 8 and 10 UNION LANE.
Telephone, No. 66.] [Established 1860.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere,
BUTTER ■SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
L %
k
Lancet.
*> A
A
St. Joim’s Works, I«ondon, W.C.
FROM COUGff
INTEN MINUTE9>m»m
£l
N VIM AV
H
JULSAM
JL S AFR AND SPEEDY UEMKDY l-'Olt
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS, &C.
“ Invaluable for Bad Cougl« and Colds^
Sold by all chemists in bottles at Is. Ijd., and 2b. 9d.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more about
prevention in ten minutes than all the years you’ve
lived. Write. Prof. HERMANN, French Specialist, 41
Collins Place East, Melbourne.
Musical Instruments, etc.
TJOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every deserip-
xx tion, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJ OVVARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal, Jones, &c.,
cash or terms, to suit all. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJ OVVARD’S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver plated,
xx cash or easiest terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for colonies;
cash or easy terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJ OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices, for cash or
on easiest terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
JTOWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, complete, from
xx 12s 6d, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from, all kinds
- LJ - and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD’S Panjos, from 2s 6d to 12 guineas, all makes
xx cash or te m■. Queen-st.,- Woollahra.
U OWARD’S Mouth Organ (J ton), from 6d to 1 guinea
a great variety. Queen-st., Woollahra.
XTOWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. Thousands of
xx them in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourines, Black
xx &c., great variety. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD’S American Organs for cash or on terms,
“•Large stock now landing. Queen st., Woollahra.
TJ OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, from 3s. lid. to 215.,
11 best German make. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30 guineas,
- LJ - cash or easy terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD’S Double Bass, 3 or 4 string, machine head,
xx cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD Supplies Country Residents with Goods on
A 1 easy terms, lists free. Queen-st., VVoollahra.
TJ OWARD'S Guitars, Spanish, American, French, and
xx German ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless variety,
from 6d. to 25g5.; cash or terms. Queen-st., W’lhra.
TJ OWARD’S Saxhorns or E flat Tenors, in brass ant
xx silver ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
Tl OWARD'S Baritones brass and silver-plated ; cash oi
xx terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
JJ OWARD'S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass and
x 1 silver ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
IJ OVVARD'S Euphoniums, in brass and silver; cash or
xx easy terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD’S Circular and Straight Basses, brass or
xx plated ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD'S for Brass Drums and Fittings; cash o
xx terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARDS for Bombardon’s and double BB Bass’fc
xx cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
fT OWARD’S supply Complete Brass Bands on very eas.\
L terms to suit everybody. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD'S supply Complete String Bands for cash oi
xx on terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TI OWARD’S send lbe Instrument on payment of first
xx instalment. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD’S Safety Bicycles, rubber tyres; cash o -
xx terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
IJ OVVARD’S Gold and Silver Watches, Rings, &c., cas>
xx or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD’S supply lists and full particular on appli
xx cation. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD & CO.
Jlcrcliants A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
A2T Write\for L ista, and beware of WORTHLESI
IMITATIONS of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Mlusic,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, &e.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
R3T Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers.
THE AUTOHARP.
VI
Any persoi
can play tin
Autoharp oi
vamp hia own
accompani-
mentstothou-
sandsofsongs,
waltzes, or
pieces without
any know-
ledge of musk
whatever. The Autoharp is recognised to be deep, rich ir,
tone, and sweeter than any piano in creation. Price, with
0 major and minor pedals, tuning-board, &c., 35/-; superioi
tone and finish, 45/-. Carriage FKEE. Violins, thousands
to choose from, price, 25/-, 35/-, 50/-, 75/-, 105/-, 150/-.
Carriage free. Music, songs, waltzes, accordeons, concer-
tinas, angles, banjos, mandolines, guitars, flutes, fifes,
picooloes, and cornets ; cheaper than at any other house
in Australia. Catalogues posted FREE. 0. ALBERT
& SON, 118 King Street, SYDNEY.
Hotel.
i
“pe (Sydney §offee palace” Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.IV., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF,
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board .. 15s
With Board .. 30s
SPACIOUS BOOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s eaoli per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s eacli pet week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OP ROOMS,
Ranging from i_4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
WKSCItU'TIVK.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Ho tan Seal Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices.
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
-The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually dist urbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150tt. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances art; connected
jvith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of tint
premises.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENDER'S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. 9 |ss M and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne ; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Faulding & and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide ; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
The Lunatic and His Keeper.
BY ONE WHO KNOWS THEM.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Bayview-House (Sydney) scandal demon-
strates the difficulty of getting at the true inward-
ness of lunatic-asylums. The gospel of the matter
must, under ordinary circumstances, come either
from a confinee or an official. The confinee can’t
give it; the official generally can’t and always
won’t ! —unless he’s been dismissed, when he in-
variably lies. Most others who deal with the
matter don’t know what they are talking about. I
do, because I’ve lived in an asylum long enough to
make minute observations, of which I have here
only room for such points as bear directly upon a
question momentous to every man, for the only
person I ever heard assert that he couldn’t pos-
sibly become insane was insane already !
The obsolescence of the barbarously repressive
system of lunatic treatment is known to more of
us than are aware that one of the most strenuous
apostles of the more humanitarian method is to be
found in the New South Wales “Inspector-
General of the Insane,” Of Dr. Manning’s status
as an “alienist” my opinion might not be worth
much, but it is worth as much as anybody else's
to the effect that a more humane man never
breathed, and that, if his ideas could be literally
carried out, there would be no such thing as
ill-treatment of a New South Wales lunatic. Dr.
Manning’s central principle is that the lunatic is
to be as little as possible reminded of his infirmity
or of the restrictions which it involves—develop-
ments of which idea appear in the substitution of
“ hospital ” for “ asylum,” “ patient ” for
“lunatic,” and “attendant” for “warder,” as
well as in the abolition of distinctive dress for
confinees. The amount of liberty, also, now
allo wed tc patients is a subject of huge surprise—
and not a little alarm —to visitors. Here is an in-
stance. At the outer gate of the institution I
was one day asked by an elderly lady the way to
the office. Said she, when directions had been
given : “ But those men working in the grounds—
are they insane ? ” “ Certainly, madam ! ”
“ Then, unless you’ll come with me I won’t pass
them!” I went. It was impossible to explain
that from a wide induction of cases the doctors
were on safe ground in allowing certain patients
to handle implements which could not be trusted
to others. Which “safe” men, by the way,
didn’t always look it. One big, powerful fellow
had a habit of kicking-out furiously at nothing,
Uttering at the same time the most appalling
•ounds conceivable. Yet this man was perfectly
harmless, while, on the other hand, there were
plenty of inoffensive - looking patients too
dangerous to be allowed out of the yards.
Let me here knock on the head the popular
notion of a lunatic-asylum as a Pandemonium of
ravings and bowlings. From the “ violent” ward
come occasionally uncanny sounds ; otherwise the
place has an orderly quiet which could hardly be
paralleled in a similar aggregation of sane people.
_ The establishment I refer to—containing, at the
time I write of, nearly 1000 patients—is con-
structed upon the most modern lines—embodies
all the modern improvements; so that here, if
anywhere, Dr. Manning’s ideas should have been
perfectly administered. To say that they were
not, is only to say that his instruments were
human. The superior staff was all right. Three
doctors; principal—bluff, but kind; second—
cynical, but not unkind : third —very young man,
unspoiled of officialism. Business-superintendent
-t-“ white man” all round. Chief attendant —
strict disciplinarian, but notably humane and con-
elderate with patients. But with the subordinates
we come to the weak spot. Of the male atten-
daubs—necessarily men of good physique and
superficially good character—a few were intelli-
gent and humane; many were humane without
being intelligent; the remainder were neither one
nor other. Proved cruelty, however, was so
rigorously punished that men of this last stamp
had to cut it very fine. One instance, chief atten-
dant catches an attendant striking a patient,
Delinquent is given 30 minutes to clear out.
Summary, but emphatically right!
Still, with all this, there was malpractice.
Well-known to policemen, gaol officials, and
asylum warders are certain methods of inflicting
severe physical punishment without leaving
marks. That these were practised in the institu-
tion under notice, I can’t say. Probably they
were. But what I do say is that injuries which
patients were asserted to have given themselves
were certainly not always so received. The
saner patients—many technically insane persons
have full practical use of their intelligence—were
never thus treated, because, in the first place,
they had wit enough to avoid loggerheads, and, in
the second, such a patient’s account of the occur-
rence would have been dangerously coherent,
But 1 say again that no possible supervision can,
or does, prevent the spiteful attendant from
privately ill-using a patient who may have given
him trouble or abuse. And I say, also, that with
many attendants it is an axiom—not without a
certain brutal soundness—that the more you bully
a lunatic the less trouble he’ll give you.
For the attendant who returns a patient’s blow
upon the spot there is, perhaps, some excuse. The
case is a rare one, for few patients, not absolutely
maniacal, are fools enough to strike the men who
can quietly “ take it out of them ” in a hundred
little ways. One morning a patient put his fist
into the back of an attendant walking in front of
him. It was a light blow, given playfully, but
the attendant flew fiercely at the man and struck
him twice in the neck. This I saw, but did not
report, because the lunatic was a stalwart young
man, and because the instant dismissal which
would have followed would have been too severe a
punishment for the attendant consump-
tive, and excitable, as consumptives often are.
Only for this Damocles’-sword of dismissal, how-
ever, and a system of fines for neglect, the
lunatic’s lot would be a hundred times worse than
it is.
The most flagrantly disregarded injunction was
that ordaining that patients were not to be sworn
at or abused, and the habitual neglect of the regu-
lation forbidding all “teasing” unquestionably
accounted in many cases for a slower improvement
than the doctors had expected. Those patients,
also, who had to be spoon-fed used often to have
their pabulum shovelled into them after a fashion
more compatible with the attendants’ impatience
than with Dr. Manning’s notions of the fitness of
things.
All this, be it repeated, is in direct contraven-
tion of the regulations, and could, perhaps, be
entirely obviated only by the employment as
attendants of men who should combine with the
requisite physique an exceptional degree of
patience and intelligence. Till that happens, the
lunatic will be always more or less ill-used upon
the sly.
A good deal is being said, just now, about the
practice of making friends wait while the patient
is being polished up a bit, but this custom—liable,
like every other, to abuse —is not an unreasonable
one. The man is working in the grounds. It is
certainly not to his disadvantage that he should
be required to wash and comb before going to the
visiting-room. Or, the patient is in bed, ill.
There is no awful mystery involved in the few
njtinutes’ delay requested while he is being
trimmed-up to “receive,” as he probably would
be in his own house.
As a safe-guard against asylum-abuses the
“Visiting Board” is of very little value. The
official visitors appear at the asylum periodically,
examine certain books and documents, and then—
perhaps !—take a walk through the establishment
to enquire if there are “any complaints?” The
beauty of which arrangement consists in the fact
that whereas those who are obviously insane are
ready enough with complaints of all sorts and
sizes, those who are sane enough to put a reason-
able point on their own behalf are also too sane to
risk the ill-will of those in whose hands they are
practically helpless.
The documents just referred to are the papers
which must be presented with every patient before
tfie asylum-authorities can legally receive him, and
aipongst these must be certificates of mental un-
soundness from two qualified medical men. Now,
just as no man has a greater admiration than myself
for an adequate exponent of the healing art, so no
man has had a better opportunity of estimating
the amount of asininity which may co-exist with
the orthodox degrees in medicine and surgery,
Sbmeof the certificates, of course, are the issue
of men with brains in their heads, but by far too
many are rich in internal evidence that the
grantors thereof were themselves too hopelessly
sloppy-minded to be entrusted with the heavy
responsibility of declaring any man civiliter
mortuus. One genius, for instance, in his
“ evidences of insanity observed by myself,”
gravely writes himself down an ass by
testifying that the patient had called him one!
Another says, “That the patient keeps his eye
fixed on an imaginary object, but denies that he
sees it.” This “qualified” wiseacre imagines an
object himself, and then asserts that the patient
does so! Yet these men, and others like unto
them, will go gaily on “certifying” until the
common sense of the community ordains that the
lunatic-label shall only be affixed by men of recog-
nised eminence in the alienistio branch of their
profession.
Dear Bulletin, —As to lynching in Aus-
tralia. The only case I know of was at Rooky
Creek, near Strathbogie, N.S.W. —and that wasn’t
final. A Chinaman named Ah Sue was supposed
to have stolen a gun from a kangaroo hunter,
called, say, Jones. Jones strung him up, and he
would undoubtedly have perished if not rescued
by some diggers. Jones got, I think, three
months; and has attributed his consistent bad
look ever since to not having made a thorough job
of it.— Gunvan Tom.
In 1877, as an opponent of Mr. George
Paton Smith, at whom G. H. Supple fired when
he killed publican Walsh, the late Professor Pear-
son stood for the constituency of Boroondara. He
declared himself to be in favour of payment of
members, but found the constituency bitterly
adverse. Thereupon at his next meeting he said :
“I do not desire to be Lord Bcroondara. I
merely wish to act as your delegate, and as the
feeling of the electors is evidently against pay-
ment of members, I will, if elected, vote in the
negative on the subject.” He wasn’t elected,
however.
Anarchism lacks sense of humour. The
] a t e Emil Henry made a special grievance of the
fact that the bornb-throwing fraternity were
harassed by the police.
i e»„ mi n/nn .
, Bulletin,-The M‘Cooey appears to
hold bushmen in vast scorn, and conveniently for-
ffets that it was a bushman who brought to light
tl,e fac | that platypi ay eggs afterwards fully
Proved by Professor Caldwell. M Gooey disputed
the fact at the time, and held Bunalbo, the hush-
lnan>,uP to scorn and Latin quotations. M‘Gooey
*! iay ~* lo . w a a hout whisky and bugs, but he
? oes s 11 °)T overything. Probably he hasn t
that the death-adder climbs small
v*y trees; and that black snakes have been
• ? n “, lls f ri Y e * U P to Bft. Cm. long, apd this
in the heart of winter in the frost ; also, that the
wbo , menagerie of snakes go about at night, corn-
mwdy supposed not to do so.—Gunyan lom,
lexas -
The Vic. railway authorities are trying to
make ends meet by the simple and effective pro-
cess of postponing repairs until the remote future,
Only six miles of new rails were laid down last
year, at which rate of progress rails are evidently
expected to last five centuries without renewal,
As they only last forty years at the very outside,
there should presently be some frightful accidents
on the Victorian lines. Crippled carriages are
stowed away to postpone the cost of restoration,
and, consequently, trucks have to be pressed into
the service for holiday traffic. The outlay for
repairs has been reduced from .£44,000 to <£14,000
per annum, and the Age points to this result as a
proof of the extravagance of the old Speight
regime!
A few weeks ago a schooner called the
t T K " oto T'
mBS?J£SA*!££SS?S
the co-operative principle at Ngatagiia Harbour,
Raroton J ai the Lilders-of whom there were 80
-being also her owners. Not being in a violent
hurry, they took five years to complete the craft,
whi / h ’ though roughl y finished, is a very strong
vessel, built on the model of the ’Frisco fore-and
a ( te f s ’ c a “ d her f Sl . ze 5 if
*s®?®™{, f , at ® ,° f SUoh , craffc , bj n °*
b“a n &rv«»" s
of Takitumu, by the way, is an historical one,
being that of the ancient canoe, which, some-
time about 500 years ago, sailed away from the
Ngatagiia district of Rarotonga on an explor-
ing trip, and reached Maoriland ; hence the tradi-
tion of the Maoris anent the far-off land whence
their ancestors came, and which in Maori legends
is Hawaiki. In addition to being built entirely
of Cook Group timbers, the schooner is manned
by a native crew, but has a white skipper. The
proceeds of the cargo of fruit are to be devoted to
coppering the Takitumu.
Pitt-sfcreefc bargains, Hordern Brothers,
Pitt-street (only), as a special inducement, and to
meet the present times, are supplying Chesterfield
overcoats for 27/6 (twenty-seven shillings and six-
ponce), made to measure. Sent anywhere in the
cJony of N.S. Wales fkek ! Material: Navy serge
or all-wool colonial tweed, well shrunk. Another
chance to patronise local industry, as the tweeds
are manufactured in New South Wales from wool
grown in New South Wales, and the coats are
made to your measure in New South Wales,
Patterns and self-measurement forms sent post
free upon application to Hordern Brothers, 203-11
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.


“Men I Have Smiled With.”
TTTB STAY ftt Brutou’a,
NanamoD
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The "PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is ft
Waterside Paradise.
ARMIDALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
Mrs. I*. Wade’s
TATTEBSALL’S MOTEL.
Th* Traveller's HOME in New England.
WEST MAITLAND.
Tee mn’l beat Fry’s Grand Central Hotel
for position.
SOMETHING NEW.
THE CL UB HOTEL ,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL in
Queensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
train. Private Suites. George A. Godsall.
When You Visit Gympie,
don’t forget
J, J, JE. Stewart’s
& MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL.
GUNNEDAH.
CURLEY’S “ROYAL”
Is The Australia of the North-West.
T. CURLEY, Proprietor, and Patentee of
Volcanic Soda Machines.
MUSWELLBROOK.
Mo, here we are, let’s stay at JIM GREEN'S
Hotel.
NEWCASTLE.
Why man don’t marry? Because they find a
LUXURIOUS HOME
at
Connolly’s Grand Hotel.
Publications.
44 fJIALES op the CONVICT SYSTEM."
PMCB; ONE SHILLING.
my Australasian Address, Is. Bd,
* TIUSnN NEWS. 00. (Lnirnro^
M Pn» Street, Sydney.
nrw publications.
the Early Days
price warung.
2/4; Cloth, 2/10, post paid.
OFFICE, SYDNEY.
MILK - butter. CREAM.
_ PROM
Untry milk CO.,
187 TO r>
Palmer Street, Sydney.
I.A°n s .. C fi r “ommended I
try thl ble ln a Sick-mL T Uenza >
.«te adiese^
Twists. U ) ’ 10s -> Post free
' AB T^|®w E t al
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 15.
An y purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Saturday, 30th
June, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office .order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
ff The Bulletin's Missing Word Competition Coupon. —Ho. 13.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or stamps to the value of 13d., to Manager, “Bulletin”
Office, Sydney, in time to be received by Saturday, June SO, 1894:.
The jurymen in the Montgomery-Williams case having found the prisoners guilty, the
latter were sentenced to death, according to Botany Bay law. The jury subsequently
petitioned for the men’s reprieve, on the ground that they did not believe Montgomery and
Williams meant murder at all. The jury’s verdict was not in accordance with their belief,
but it was in keeping with their oath, which was to find a verdict according to Botany Bay
law, the brutal and law which drags a man into the jury-box and, offering him in
such cases as the present no alternative between hanging and acquitting, really compels
him to commit either murder or perjury.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received—so deduction whatever bbino made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
.A'o replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
PARKE & LACY CO.“
SYDKTBY,
Mining and Hydraulic Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
INQERSOLL ROCK DRILLS and AIR COMPRESSORS, KNOWLES’ PUMPS,
GATES and DODGE ROCKBREAKERS,
HUNTINGDON MILLS, STAMPER BATTERIES,
CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS, ERUE VANNERS, COOKE AMALGAMATORS.
ENGINE FITTINGS, MILL SUPPLIES, Etc., Etc.
Reduced Prices.
Challenge Ore Feeders, £35.
True Vanner Belts, £25.
A GOLDEN SHANTY,’
Second Edition.] Price: One Shilling. [All Newsagents.
J
€<
BuHetln ” series, iVTo. 3.
The Last of Six
99
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Molf Boldrewood.
Opinions of tlie Press;
. vo ] um ®. takesits name fromone of the sketches, * The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a run- Tn
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the native in twiT' T i
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter and faraway
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”-S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893. cnapter, and for those who are fond of
“No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Pavenc and the seerAt ac ui • .
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed’bv scarce!^anv * 18 u
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under nota tw? other wnter -
his best work. That they will he widely read is certain.”— Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893. 0 ce he kds glven us some of
“ They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from lons contact anfi Papa .
of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants : they tell, sometimes with rem».i*lrnwf observation, striking pictures of
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its Striking P t tUres ° f
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and ot weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men ■ ThnT.nst'nf’dm “ wUd . pl "? s
to. trjaohery and reyeage upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hiSs, but which’ Mr Sf "
nuouuum«u wu o o/uu. ui wcuu xLUftgiuiiigs uidL move tne minds of lonely men. ‘ The T.aqf- nf Qi v >ia 0 - ...
tale of cannibalism, treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous butwhieh’Mr terrible
thrilling interest. ‘The Haunt of the Jinkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitatorato S a “ akes
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, in which Mr Favenc hero nmi th m .„ C relieved from the
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘ Spirit Led,’ which the great mi?ht ha« written ‘ A Cup of S T T £ S
July
“ ‘ The Last of Sixand other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney: The Bulletin Ndwermnop \ m, . . „ .. ~ . ,
graphic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian iLa Anth* ollectmn of short hut
Mid we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection The present issue fomsttiettMnf g °P°™
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences. ’’-Australian Stab, July 15, 1893. e pi esenc issue lorms the fchird of Fhs
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


EPPS ’ S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COG O A
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
V' —THAT —
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Solo acturer
OF TUB
CELEBHATED
fi
n
J s
TRADE. MA-Rh
BRAND
Confectionery .
Warehouse*. CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
rjIALES
OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Box 1034, 0.P.0.
\V. MAM MATT
maiAtfactubbrs of
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
CUTX.EHY of every description,
SHEFFIELD.
Telephone 9)3.
& SONS,
SHOW BOOMS! 1
Empire CHambera,
93 York Street, SYDNEY
TUe Block,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
fsd
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, wherfr
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably un,dertake its sale.
,S,W. FRESH FOOD & ICE
(LIMITED),
25 HARBOUR
135 KING STREET,
92 KING STREET,
23 ROYAL ARCADE,
MILK
CREAM
ICE '
Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney.
FOB
BUTTBE
PISH
ETC., ETC., ETC
GAME
POULTEI
PASTKY
H. PATBSON, Manager
At Wyalong.
t
.
■
m
‘ ma*h rov 'S.
Ct - orn !NC
m
-#c.
:
■
SB
Clements and Party’s Claim.
The IMPERIAL HOTEL
WYKTYA.HD SQUARE, SYDNEY
(Established over Thirty Years).
The most Homely, Comfortable and Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tariff, 10s. 6d. per Day. Walter sidneyT -^''^'
HELIDON SPAWATEE
‘Tales of the Early Days
(By PRICE WARUNG).
):f
Bound in Boards, 2s. 4d.; Cloth, 2s. 10d., post p“
“Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
‘THE LAST OF!®
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price: Is.; per Post, Is. 3<L
From all N
