

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMBS RUM.
CADBURY'S COCOA
A Stimulating*, Sustaining Cup. Made Instantly.
4>
atmeal
laked
R. 6 WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOE —
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE,
dfg
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
A
&
o
o
o
<RA'c/a5p.C K>
o
o
o
o
»
v
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 38 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
AIL STOREKEEPERS
IN N S l/l/. i»r QUEENSLAND
BS-a
If
** ’ ■
A’
9 ■
ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department,
MARKET STREET (next George-street)
SYDNEY.
THE CELEBRATED WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS, 4s and 2s per bottle.
BROWNS’ FOUR-CROWN WHISKY, 3/9
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM
SCHNAPPS, 4s and 2s
Very Superior old Port Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
Noted for its Comfort and
Moderate Charges.
df
$0
ft*®*® 1
Before visiting the Qity write to the Manager for
O rd ®J Tariff. (prrejporuience promptly attended to.
ows
,
W\v- t
EVERYWHERE':
gd
fg
Worthington Pumping Engine Company,
lof'W.fi
X 7
WORTHINGTON TRIPLE EXPANSION SURFACE
CONDENSING PUMPING ENGINE.
(HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE)
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence St.
trade mark*
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency—Sturt-street, South Melbourne.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World,
IRRIGATION
SINKING
MINING
CREAMERIES
PUMPS KEPT IN
SUITABLE FOE
GARDEN SUPPLIES
WOOL SCOURING
WOOL DUMPING
WATER SUPPLIES
STOCK
SEWERAGE
MARINE
TANK FILLING
BOILER FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
A CHARMING SCENT.”
H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
WHITE ROSE.
“The Sweetest of Sweet Odours.”
Delightfully and delicately fragrant.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
ATKINSON’S o. L v s o t e h m e u,n E
Perfume, Toilet Powder, Soap, Tooth Powder,
Sachets, & all other specialities with this
“ charming ” odour, of all Dealers through-
out the World & of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St.,London.
Thelasjofsix;
Price Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Bulletin
Vol 16.—N0. 823. j
[Saturday, November 23, 1895.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Publishers’ Notices.
“ Australandbr” Library—No. 1.
“His Native Wife.”
By LOUIS BECK®, author of “By Reef and Palm.”
“It is impossible to mistake the clear and brilliant, yet
delicate touch of the author . . in “ His Native Wife”
every character is instinct with life.” — Daily Telegraph,
“Mr. Becke’s hand is, as in the past, clever and versa-
tile.”—S.M. Herald.
“It is about the best novelette ever written in Aus-
tralia.”— Evening News.
Post free (1 «) fr-m the Publisher, A. LINDSAY r
63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SECOND EDITION NOW READY.
' The Man from Snowy River & Other Verses/
By A. B. Paterson.
On Hand-made Paper, Bound in Buckram, gilt Top.
Price 5/- ; Post Free 5/4.
The First Edition wvs Exhausted on the Day of
Publication.
“Certainly no such distinctive verse has appeared
among us for years.”— Sydney Morning Herald.
“ A collection of really admirable poems. There is no
mistaking the swing of his verses. Small wonder that
that such lines as these should stir the hearts of men. . .
We might go on quoting indefinitely.”— The Queens-
lander.
“A welcome addition to the scanty roll of writers of
distinctively Australian verse. The writer knows how to
tell a stirring incident in a spirited and vigorous maimer,
and the local coloring is exact and truthful. He is evi-
dently quite familiar with every aspect of bush and
station life.”— Australasian.
“The body of what lies between these covers is in some
respects distinctly better, as Australian literature, than
the few of Gordon’s poems in which the local element has
been made unmistakeable.”— Sydney Daily Telegraph.
“ The dominant tone is that of an intense affection and
longing for the wild, free, natural life of the country.”—
Town and Country Journal.
“ I tell you, friends, this book of ‘ Banjo’s ’ is the best
thing I have seen done in Australia. It is pathetic,
humorous, strong, descriptive, and — Australian ! ” —Stock
and Station Journal.
“The volume teems with vivid pictures . . . and
all is told in vigorous verse, having a splendid swing and
freedom.”—Maitland MußcufiY.
“ In my opinion this collection comprises the best bush
ballads written since the death of Lindsay Gordon.”—
" Rolf Boldrewood.”
ANGUS & ROBERSON, Booksellers to the Uni-
versity, 89 Uastlereagh-st., Sydney.
3E5. -W. CJ OL El,
Bookseller, Publisher and Stationer,
333 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Book Arcade, Melbourne, and 67 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
WRITE OR CALL rob ANY BOOK TOD WANT-
Periodicals and Stationery Supplied.
COLE’S BOOK BUYERS’ GUIDE
And Magazine of Choice Extracts.
New Series, Monthly. Now Ready. PostFbee.
This is the most exhaustive Guide published in
Australasia. Write for a cofty.
JUST PUBLISHED.
OUR
Artistic Photographs (251
of Australian Favorites.
ONE
SHILLING
C€L€BRlTies.
A Most Attract ire Album.
PEARS’ XMAS ANNUAL.
JUST RECEIVED.
Three Largs Handsome Colo.ed Pictures.
ONE SHILLING ; Post Free 17.
GORDON & GOTCH, and all Booksellers,
Coolgardie Goldfields.
“THE BULLETIN,”
is now OBTAINABLE at the
Published Price Free of Postage
from the
"Goldfields Courier ” k “ Golden Age” Offices
(COOLGARDIE)
Immediately on Arrival of the Mail.
Storekeepers and Sab - Agents supplied at
Wholesale rates.
“THE BULLETIN” BOOK EXCHANGE.
On reoeipfc at The Bulletin Office, Sydney, of Postal Order, Postal Notes, or Stamps (of any province) equal to the price stated (which is published price with
postage added), Books and Periodicals in the subjoined lists will be forwarded to any Australasian address.
Books by Ethel Turner.
Seven Little Australians.
The Family at Misrule.
The Story of a Baby.
Posted, 3s. each.
Books by Ernest Favenc.
A History of Australian Exploration, with
maps and illustrations ; 11s 6d posted.
A standard work.
The Last of Six, and other tales; Is 3d.
Graphic and characteristic.
The Secret of the Australian Desert, 3s, A
book for every boy’s book-shelf.
NOTES.
Two poems. This, by Brunton Stephens,
read at a Brisbane farewell concert to Gov.
Norman :
Three Words.
Hodson of Hodson’s Horse sat in his tent j
Over his table the warrior bent,
Pen in hand, telling his wife far away,
As was nightly his custom, the tale of the day ;
Telling the tale how the conflict had sped—
This one was wounded—and that one was dead—
Delhi unwon yet—our rulers at fault —
A woeful mistake to delay the assault—
And so on—all sad—till there flashed from his pen
Three words which, thank God, are as true now
as then —
Three words which, read now with their meaning
for US,
Take the pain from “Farewell” —for the record
runs thus,
“ Norman is safe.”
Thirty-eight years has the chronicle stood;
Thirty-eight years—yet the record holds good.
Let us cease from regret; let us rather rejoice
To hear even “ Good-bye ” from the actual voice
That brought cheer to the downcast and strength
to the spent
When Hodson, of Hodson’s Horse, wrote in his
tent,
“ Norman is safe.”
Thirty-eight years has the chronicle stood ;
Mbmy years still may the record hold good.
Arid such, even such, may the glad message be
That ere long shall be flashed to us under the sea—
The message which tells that in England at loot,
With his honors completed, his perils o’erpast,
“ Norman is safe.”
And this by Matthew Arnold :
The Progress of Poesy.
Youth rambles on life’s arid mount, .
And strikes the rock, and finds the vein,
And brings the water from the fount,
Tire fount which shall not flow again.
The man mature with labor chops
For the bright stream a channel grand.
And sees not that the sacred drops
Han off and vanish’d out of hand.
And then the old man totters nigh.
And feebly rakes among the stones.
The mount is mute, fhe channel dry ;
And down he lays his weary bones.
Gordon and Gotch supply “ Pears’ An-
nual,” one of the most magnificent of the
English pictorial annuals (Is. 3d. posted).
Three large coloured pictures accompany,
and the tale is a reprint of Dickens’s
“ Haunted Man ” —which, seen in this form,
suggests how far below the cockney genius
fall the nowadays providores of Christmas
numbers.
People have commented on the difference
between Mark Twain’s spoken and printed
humor. He hints the explanation himself,
in an article contributed to an American
paper. “ The humorous story,” says Mark,
“is American, the comic story is English,
the witty story is French. The humorous
story depends for effect upon the manner
of the telling ; the comic story and the witty
story upon the matter. The humorous story
bubbles gently along: the others burst.”
And Mark very obviously practises as he
preaches.
Mrs. Humphrey Ward’s new novel, “ Sir
George Tressady,” will be first published in
the Century magazine.
“ The Banjo’s ” book was issued by Angus
and Robertson on 19th October. By the
first week in November the publishers had
sold the entire edition, handed the author
his share of the profits, squared all accounts,
and were lying low for another literary
record-breaker.
tM NOTE.—As jpost of the hooks men-
tioned are in strong demand, some may
be temporarily out of stock. In such
case, orders will be filed, and the books
forwarded immediately on arrival of next
shipment.
Any book or periodical will be for-
warded on receipt of price, particulars
of which will be given to enquirers. A
list of periodicals may be had on appli-
cation.
“THE FAMILY AT MISRULE."
It is hardly a year since Ethel Turner’s
first book was published, and now she has
three to her credit—a trio of which many a
veteran author might be proud, let alone a
year-old dbbutante. It is true that other
years of toilsome apprenticeship preceded
this year’s freedom and success, when Miss
Turner has received her literary indentures
endorsed with the warm approval of every-
one, everywhere, competent to judge a
journeywomau in letters. The Australasian
public, at least, had learned to esteem her
talent in short stories, and their original
verdict has now found a world-wide echo.
It looks, indeed, as if we were on the eve
of a renascence of Australian literary art.
Since the era when our major bards and
prophets sang and saw—the era of Kendall,
and Gordon, and Stephens, and Clarke—
few of our writers have been able to give us
body as well as bouquet in their vintage.
“ Rolf Boldrewood,” beginning nobly, has
become a mechanical grinder of books
for the publishers. Mrs. Ward, Miss
“Keynotes” Dunne, and Marriott Wat-
son, are of us, but not with us, either
in heart or books. Mrs. Campbell
Praed, “ Ada Cambridge,” and “ Tasma ” —
the first much the most capable—merely
weave Australian scenery into the romances
of sentimental commonplace penned for their
feminine public. In “ Price Waning,”
Ernest Pavenc, Sydney Jephcott, Francis
Kenna, and two or three others, we have
had gleams of the fire that should light our
literary way. But not until quite lately—
perhaps not even yet—have we accumulated
a body of work which begins to compare
with that achieved by our early giants.
Now, with Louis Becke, Ethel Turner,
and “The Banjo’ well “arrived”; with
Lawson, and Daley, and Montgomery
approaching the goal ; with., many other
Bulletin writers well started in the race ; it
would really seem that 1900 will be able to
cull for a favorite book-shelf a dozen new
books of permanent value to take their place
beside the favorite old ones. The Bulletin
counts it indeed a sweet thing and honorable
that it has been permitted to assist in secur-
ing this happy consummation.
It is somewhat difficult to find words to
praise highly enough, yet truly enough, Miss
Turner’s newest book, “ The Family at
Misrule”—a sequel to “Seven Little Aus-
tralians.” The story is thoroughly feminine
—the bubbling over of a heart brink-full
with sympathy. It is feminine intuition
and feminine power of observation that
have aided the author to make her book
lovely and natural—so far as the children,
with one exception, are concerned. For
again the adults are not good : like Larrie
and Dot, they remain children in spite of
the formal labels and certificates of their
age. Again charm is the chief quality—
the charm of our contact with nerves all
a-tingle with tenderness. This phrase may
seem fantastic in cold print; but laying down
the book one does not feel it a whit too
warm. Only one Australian author since
Marcus Clarke—Henry Lawson—has had
such moving emotional art.
Yet the art, for the most part, is not in
the least artful. “ The Family at Misrule ”
is a book made in happy unison of heart and
head, with culture controlling but not
obtruding. Perhaps the most jarring note
of unreality is the'precocity of Poppet. Judy
at 13 was bad enough, but Poppet at 9 !
Well, fancy even a little Australian girl
capable of the complex emotion involved
when Poppet goes dramatically to defend
her disgraced brother before a schoolful of
boys, and the master hints that the naughty
one has told a lie before :—
(*)h, if only she could have flung back her head
and said, “ He has never told a lie in his life, sir;
never—never! ”
Shame at not being able to do so made the dear
curly head droop a little, and two more tears
forced their way from under her eyelids and fell
sadly down her cheek.
One flatly declines bo believe this of Miss
Poppet, at 9 ; though doubtless the pretty
sentiment would appeal to Miss Turner at
19, or later. And you can divide girlish
imagination from girlish observation all
through the book. Here, for example, is a
transcript from real life, exquisitely good
because absolutely true :—
In the nursery Meg was supposed to be giving
lessons to Peter and Poppet, and superintending
the more advanced studies of Nellie ; for the last
nursery governess had left suddenly, and the Cap-
tain had professed himself unable to afford another
until the next quarter.
Meg used to provide herself .with a book during
these daily struggles, to be indulged in at times
when her supervision was not required. It had
been an “improving ” book for the last month, for
she had lately been finding out how woefully
ignorant she was when she talked to .the young
man who had listened to her playing last night.
To-day it was Browning, because he had looked
horrified to find she never read any of his poems,
on the plea that he was acknowledged to be diffi-
cult to understand.
It was a pity she chose “Filippo Baldinucoi on
the Privilege of Burial” for her first essay, especi-
ally as it was such -a hot day ; but she had deter-
mined to read, dauntlessly, the first poem the
book open ad ait.
“ I)q this turn, Poppet,” she said, setting a
multiplication with eight fl <nires in e®eh line—
“ dear, what a greasy slate; and, Peter, if you
drop any blots on your copy, you will have to
write it again this afternoon.”
, Peter was sucking a little lump of ice he had
stolen out of the ice-chest. Poppet asked him for
a bit to clean her slate with, but he considered
this such waste of precious- material that he swal-
lowed it in a hurry and choked. Poppet asked if
she might go and wet her sponge ; but Meg said
no, it always took a quarter of an hour to do that
simple act, if she escaped from the room. So
Peter offered to breathe on it for her.
“Both of us will,” said Poppet—“you on the
top half, and me on the bottom. ”
Meg was taking a cursory glance at “ Filippo,”
and groaning mentally ; she did not hear the
arrangement for the slate-cleaning until the heads
bumped violently and the two began to quarrel.
“You licked it with your tongue,” Poppet said.
“ I never—I wath only breathing with my lipth
on it,” declared Peter.
“I saw the end of your tongue hanging out,”
Poppet maintained.
“You’re a thtory-teller, Poppet.” Peter’s face
began to get red. “ I wath only breathing, tho
there. ”
“ Peter, go and sit at the other end of the table.
Poppet, if you put out your tongue at Peter again
I shall make you stand in the corner.” Meg put
a pin in the Browning to keep it open, and went
over to Nell at the window to see how “ Le Ohien
du Capitaine ” was progressing.
“ Oh, Nell! ” she said.
The French dictionary lay face downwards on
the broad window-sill; “ Le Ohien ” was face up-
ward on Nell’s knee, but on the top of it was
“ Not Wisely, but too Well.”
“ Oh ! ” said Nell, with a gasp, her eyes misty,
her cheeks flushed —“ oh, it’s no use scolding, Meg
—I absolutely must finish this ; I’m just where
Kate is—Oh, Meg, you are horrid ! ”
For Meg had taken forcible possession of the
dark-green book, and had picked up the dic-
tionary.
“You know you are not to read in the morn-
ing,” sbe said; “ and I don’t think you ought to
read a love story like this till you’re eighteen at
least. Really, Nellie, it’s no use me pretending
to overlook you; you’ve done one page of “ The
Dog ” in three mornings. I’ll have to tell father
I must give up the pretence of teaching.”
“ Here, give it to me,” Nellie said, sighing wist-
fully; “it ought to be called ‘The Pig,’I think,
it’s so detestable. Put ‘ Not Wisely ’ on the table,
Miggie, so I can see the title and get occasional
refreshment.”
Then Meg returned to the “Privilege of Burial.”
This is as delightful as the burning of Mr.
Gillet is abominable. Mr. Gillet is a bush-
pathetic old lover of Meg’s who has to be
got out of the way to make room for a new
one ; and Miss Turner sends him up to
Heaven in a fiery cottage—with limelight,
slow music, and other stagey accessories which
draw an involuntary “ Ugh ! ” The scarlet-
fever episode passes with some difficulty,
but when the machine-god sets another
old pump working at our emotions one
thankfully turns back to Bunby and the
boys who cheer Poppet—not because she
championed a special favourite, but because
“ they felt it was expected of them, and it
was another break in the monotony ” of
morning school.
“ The Family at Misrule ” has many illus-
trations—without individuality or value—
and is published, with Miss Turner’s other
books, by Ward, Lock, and Bowden.
AN AUSTRALIAN BOYS’ BOOK.
Ernest Favenc’s new book for boys, “ The
Secret of the Australian Desert,” is a piece
of solid, conscientious work which no other
man could do so wisely or so well. For it
deals with the fate of lost Leichhardt ; pic-
tures his grave in the desert and the adven-
tures of his comrades ; and joins myth and
marvel, fact and fancy, in a style which
demands the knowledge of the explorer as
well as the imagination of the fictionist.
The book’s chief merit is that the whole
story might easily be true, yet it is as well
calculated to fascinate youthful readers as a
good story eminently false. There is interest,
too, for mature minds, in the glimpses of
the mysterious race which primevally
peopled Australia—and the sacrificial cave
ought to exist, if it does not :—
We took fire and bark and wood with us, and
when we emerged in the gloomy cavern beyond,
we immediately kindled a fire. As the blaze arose
and illuminated the recesses of the cave a shriek
of terror burst from my juvenile companions, a
wild cry of “ Waxlatta ! Warlatta ! ” and in an
instant they disappeared like a bevy of black rats
underneath the rock where we had entered. I
looked arounc * >■ >rprise, but soon divined the
cause; on the opposite side appeared, drawn in
white on the wall, a large triangle, the sign ever
associated in their minds with murder and rapine.
Heaping more ’wood on the fire, I advanced
and examined the surroundings. Underneath the
triangle was a huge block of yellowish-white sand-
stone, but its purity was marred by a horrible
reddish stain which marked one of its sloping
sides. Its purpose flashed on me at once—in
some olden time it had been used as a sacrificial
stone. The fire now blazed up merrily, and I had
ample light for my researches.
The smoke disappeared through crevices in the
roof, and the ventilation seemed excellent. Marks
of old fires were visible all over the floor .which
was of white sandstone, with the same recidish
stains visible in places. Searching more minutely
I found in one dbrner a knife or dagger of steel
(since then I have found it to be tempered so skil-
fully that the edge can scarcely be turned by the
hardest rock). The handle, if it ever Had one, had
disappeared through age. In addition, there
was a broken ring of the same metal, seemingly
part of a chain, and on the walls were characters
in red, but of no written language that I could
remember. This was all that I saw on my first
visit.
Voices at the opening told me that the
natives had recovered from their fright, and were
in search of me. I called to them, and emboldened
by my voice and the firelight some of them crept
in and joined me. I found out that they had no
knowledge of this chamber, and in hopes of
finding another I set them hunting round for
any more openings that might exist, but none
could be discovered. Whilst so engaged one of
them brushed against the stone altar, and immedi-
ately it commenced rocking, whilst a squeaking,
piercing scream, like a human being in intense
agony, thrilled us all with horror. The blacks
threw themselves on the ground, and it was a few
moments before I could summon up courage to
approach the stone and examine it. The rocking
was gradually ceasing, and the shrieks grew
fainter as the motion ceased. The stone I found
to be most beautifully poised, so that the slightest
touch started the oscillation. As to the machinery
that produced the screaming noise, that I could
not investigate without capsizing the stone, which
evidently weighed some tons. For a moment I
shut my eyes, and seemed to see once more the
hideous drama that must have been many times
enacted in this chamber of death—the savage
priests, the manacled victim, the streaming blood,
the trembling captives, and the harsh shrieking of
the rocking stone adding its awful voice to the
groans of the dying man and fading away into
silence with his last cries.
There is hardly blood enough in this passage
to give boys a fair idea of the treat in store for
them, but it is one which opensa sufficientview
of the author’s strength and style. One
notes with interest how unconsciously Mr.
Favenc takes the bushman’s view of rela-
tionships with the blacks. The white adven-
turers walk into blacks’ country and camps,
and are made welcome, afterwards attacking
and slaughtering their hosts without provo-
cation. And isn’t it characteristic, too,
when they come across a rocking-stone
which they know is a unique scientific,
marvel, that one of them should propose
shifting it with a plug of dynamite? On
another occasion, a black chief is sleep-
ing in their camp. Says one, “ Kick
old Columbus up.” And the author adds,
with delicate euphemism, “ Morton promptly
roused the slumbering chieftain.” Picture
the rousing process, and yon grasp at once
the attitude of white to black all over Aus-
tralia.
There is only one unrealistic passage in
Mr. Favenc’s story. He allows three sur-
vivors from Leichhardt’s expedition to live
few or many years among the blacks, but the
adventurers meet only one half-caste. Deli-
cacy might have subtracted that half-caste ;
truth would have multiplied him indefinitely.
Percy Spence contributes four admirable
illustrations, of quite unusual artistic value
for a boys’ book.


Medical.
WRINKLES
Our WRINKLE BALM is guar-
anteed to efface any Wrinkles,
however deep or long standing. Ladies requiring any-
thing for this purpose are earnestly requested to try this.
The youthful freshness it imparts is astonishing. Price,
double size, 3 '6.
Oft It COMFI-EXfON I*llXB eradicate all Skin
Blemishes, imparting a clear and beautiful complexion.
Post free, 3/6.
The London Si Parisian Toilet Co.,
Complexion Specialists, Pace and Electric Masseurs (latest
Continental systems),
n and 73 SYDNEY ARCADE, King Street, Sydney.
Send Stamp or call for Circular.
...
CURES
df
THE TERRIFIC TWINGES
Endured by Rheumatics are first sootheu
and in the end permanently relieved by
that beneficient annihilator of pain
and preventitive of its return,
Canadian Healing Oil,
a combination of six medicinal oils, devoid
of alcohol, and consequently non-evapor-
ating when applied. Economic, because
little of it is usually required to produce
the desired effects, and the small cost of
which is rendered doubly insignificant by
contrast with the salutary results which it
achieves. It is equally safe whether taken
internally or externally, is applicable to
diseases and injuries of horses and cattle,
as well as toman, and exterminates Throat
and Lung Diseases, Catarrh, Dysentery,
Piles, Tumors, Sores, and a great num-
ber of other physical ailments.
For Sale by Chemists and Medicine
Dealers at Is. 3d.
PKOPRIKTOKS,
NORTHROP & LYMAN CO., TORONTO, CANADA,
AUSTRALASIAN DEPOT, 15 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
strong
FREE
TO AI.I.
MEN!
Sealed Treatise on Brain and Nerve
Exhaustion. Urethral Treatment
an absolute and perfect Home Cure.
NO STOMACH DRUGGING.
Varicocele cured by a New Method. Illustrated Treatise
for men only posted (sealed) 6d. stamps. Address—
Dr. GEO, WALSH,
131 Collins St,, Melbourne.
Massage.
Mr. TEEPOO HALL, Masseur,
117 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE
(Austral Buildings),
TS prepared to attend Patients suffering from Rheu-
matism, Partial Paralysis, Sciatica, Fits, Neuralgic
and Nervous Affections, Spinal Troubles, Distorted, Stiff
and Loose Joints, Gout, Hysteria, St. Vitus’ Dance,
Lumbago, and other Cognate Diseases of the Joints,
Muscles, etc.
Mr. TEEPOO HALL practises only under the super-
vision and recommendation of qualified medical men of
recognised standing.
Testimo dais from 30 leading medical men. Pamphlets
forwarded on receipt of three stamps.
pm
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
By the ARTIFICIAL EAR CUSHIONS.
Comfortable to wear and Invisible. Illustrated book
of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M.
NAST, Burke and Wills Chambers, Collins-st., MELB.
axro
Cur e, 3ST o
P a y.
prg;
belt
yo
ffIHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
Call and examine them, or send for our EEECTRIC ERA
and price-list tpost free), which wid convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Klectric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
GENTS.’ Latest American Preventative-
Simple, effectual, last for years. 2/(5 posted.
Write WILLIAM GARFIELD, Collins-street
West, MELBOURNE
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTOREI
In Four H'eeis by the use of
O p RIGOR O's
ISSE»* ct of ft-
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
A gents for Australasia— Perry <6 Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Igentsfor N. S. Wales—VV. H. Soul &Co. t Pitt-st.,Sydney.
TALES OE THE SYSTEM.’
X 3 RICE: Is. ; Per Post, Is. 3d.
Medical.
IT MAY BE SELDOM
That Medical Advertisements can be relied on, but
we here assert the following facts, which can be
borne out from Testimonials in our possession.
Thousands may see this, and treat it as some
announcements deserve, but in this they would
make a great mistake,
AND FOR THIS REASON :
by taking notice of what we have already done
and can do, as proved by thousands of grateful
acknowledgments of our skill which we hold, it
may Save Your Life and that of your dear ones.
Has any Person Living
CURED 344 cases of ERYSIPELAS, each case in 24hours,
ami Never Failed in One Case? We have. Or HYDA-
TIDS for 15 years, and Never Failed; or BRIGHT’S
DISEASE, which is supposed to he incurable ; or RING-
WORM in Half a Minute; or ever actually cured the
LIVER and KIDNEYS in their Worst States of Disease ;
or MARASMUS in Children after All Hopes had been
Given Up by all the best medical men ; or YELLOW
JAUNDICE when life was despaired of; or ECZEMA
after 35 years’ suffering ; or ASTHMA after 25 years’
standing; or DEBILITY at 58 years or any age? We
answer—
WE HAVE CURED ALL DISEASES,
and we repeat again, WE HAVE ; and can also CURE
Scurvy, Bad Legs, Piles, Diphtheria, and remove WORMS
of All Sorts (Tape, Ring, and Thread). We cure at once
Itch, Barbers’ Itch, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Catarrh in
the head, Blight and other Diseases of the Eyes, Varicose
Veins, Deafness, and any other diseases,
WHEN ALL OTHER TREATMENT FAILS.
We say again WE HAVE, and having estab-
lished a Branch of our Melb. House in Sydney,
we ask the people of N.S. Wales to TRY US
and See for Themselves the Wonderful Remedies
WE HAVE.
OUR REMEDIES ARE SAFE, SURE,
AND MODERATE IN PRICE.
If . Mentiplay & Son,
505 J GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
188 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
:
*
P.D. BO*
MEN
{Legally Qualified and Registered hy the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
Whose new and scientific treatment, hy purifying
and enriching the blood, gives new life and tone
to the whole nervous and muscular systems, and
builds up a new constitution in the most enfeebled.
The first week of treatment brings glad relief, and
perseverance ensures a thorough and LASTING
CURE.
suffering from Nervousness and
Debility, Exhaustion, Sperma-
torrhoea, Varicocele and Private Diseases, should
try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies.
Young Men and those Who Wish
to Marry,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from debility, should
consult him, for he is now enabled, quickly and
effectually, to remove the cause, and so prevent
life-long misery.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing
their troubles in detail, be treated at home. The
course of treatment will not in any way interfere
with their business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive
a straightforward and candid opinion of the case,
and the possibility of a cure. If the patient is
curable, he will tell hirrf so, if not, he will also tell
him. He undertakes no ease which he cannot
cure.
Medicines sent securely packed and free
from observation to any part of the colonies.
women7~
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle-aged and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire confidence
and success.
FEMAIal! FILLS for irregularities and ob-
structions. 10s. and 20s. per box. Guaranteed.
29 York-st., Wynyard Square, Sydney-
SUFFERERS from the effects of Boyish Folly,
Nervousness, Debility, Weakness, &c. Send stamped,
addressed envelope, and I will forward you full particu-
lars of my own case—how I suffered for years—tried
almost every so-called remedy and specialist, and when all
had failed—how I accidentally found a cure. Address,
HAROLD S. BELL, G.P.O., Melbourne.
ARE YOU SUFFERING
Rom weakness of the Nervous System, loss of Noble
Manhood through early errois or excesses. If so, write
to me and I will send you an absolute cure. Address,
Private, P.O., Box 347, Sydney.
MEDICINE SENT FREE •
Tp MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe tiie Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £1 5s. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 399, Sydney.
MANHOOD RESTORED !
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how had the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish I had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.]
T ADIES. —MADAM HEDBURG’S unfailing American
- BJ Female Remedy Restores Regularity without stomach
medication, no matter what cause or how long standing.
Send stamped addressed envelope for full particulars. F.
H. De Leon, Agent, 78 Flinders Street. Melbourne.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having’ completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical <£• Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS Si SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in bis
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &e.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d, in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any» of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
' ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
Jf? N GtL AND VIA AMERIOA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ifOUTE).
ROYAL MAIL BXPRKSS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the beat of the lied Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their Journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £OO ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, j£s2 10s. and £57 I3s. Id.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Branch Passenger Office,
Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY o LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows;
I Dates of Departure.
Steamer Commat ..er jSydney [Melbourne I Ad-alaide
1 I Noon. I 1 p.m 1 p.m.
Armand Behic Poydenot .. Nov. 27 Dec. I Dtc. 3
AUSTRALIEN .Vimont .. Dec. 27 D.'o. 31 Jan. 2
VILLE DE LAj
CIOTAT ..iFiaschi ..'Jan. 271 Jan. 31! Feb. 2
Passengers hooked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON: £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 to 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS, between Sydney,
Melbourne, and Adelaide are available for return by
Rail.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Ofßse,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Mllwraith, M‘Eacham& Co.
(Limited)
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS
TO
Western Australia.
Taking Passengers, Stock and Cargo, for Coolgardie,
Murchison, Pilbarra, and Bamboo Creek
GOLDFIELDS.
For Specially-reduced Rates, Passage Money, Stock rates
and Freight quotations, apply
Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd-, Bridge-st. Sydney.
This Line also extends to PORT DARWIN, calling at
all North-West Ports, including Cossack (port for
Pilbarra and Bamboo Creek Fields).
TICKETS or PASSAGES
—TO—
ANY TOWN in the AUSTRALIAN COLONIES, NEW
ZEALAND, AFRICA, INDIA, EUROPE, ENGLAND, or
AMERICA, Bought or Exchanged
—BY—
Davis Intercolonial Tourist Agency,
108 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 18 Queens Walk, and 549
Collins-st., Melb.; Adelaide.
tickets” tickets.
KEBIItED BATES
To any part of the Australian Colonies, New Zealand,
America, Europe, Africa, etc.
TICKETS Sought, Sold, Exchanged,
—AT—
Passenger Ticket Supply Agency,
135 King Street (over F. F. Ice Co.), SYDNEY;
121 Spring Street, MELBOURNE; also ADELAIDE.
Medical.
LADIES
L ■
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
29 York Street,
Wyayard Square,
Sydney.
DR. SPEER
Female Pills for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s. per box,
guaranteed O.K.
a a
The SPEEDY and RELIABLE
CURE for all Urinary Com-
plaints, Uravel, Pain in the Back,
etc. Price, 3/- ; by post, 3/6.
S3T Genuine only from COPP,
Chemist, Darlington, SYDNEY.
Enquiries answered free with
pleasure..
Ladies
Parisian Female Powders restore regu-
larity and remove obstructions without
faU in 48 hours. No obstruction can resist them, and they
neVerdeave any bad after effects. Price 7,6., posted any
colony. Write “SPECIALIST,” G.P.0., Melbourne.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD IN PARIS by
J, FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Dr. German Charles,
The GREAT SPECIALIST in Tumors, Gangers,
Abscess, Private & Skin Diseases,
Can be consulted PERSONALLY, or by Letter,
at 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, REDFERN.
Hours—9 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 6 till 9 p.m. daily.
Advice and Medicine, 2s. 6d,
All Ladies’ Complaints treated with great success,


Business Announcement.
Tl^lKiK:!
-4 DISEASE, not « Cltl3lH>
The cem slant abuse of alcohol fosters a erave—
a erave insatiable and deadly. It deprives valu-
able men qt all reason and respeot; It drives them
to acts of indecency and crime, and to drink what
their palates may even repel. At this stage,
pledges and punishment prove useless, and
physical, as Well as mental attention, is urgently
required.
The Orient Institute
has established a wonderful reputation in the
curing of this"awful disease, and, during the past
18 mobtha, many prominent men of owr colony
have been restored to health, sobriety and
position, Alcoholic stimulants become not only
unnecessary, but, in the majority of cases, un-
palatable. Patients undergo no inconvenience or
restraint, and are free to eat and drink what they
like.
UNQUESTIONABLE TESTIMONY.
“ I had heard of the. excellent results attending your
work, and was thereby induced to send my friend to you.
The results have exceeded my most sanguine expectations.
For the previous five years he has always been under the
influence of alcohol'and gradually'losing power to resist
it. Since liq. has been under your treatment a marvellous
change has been wrought in him. Not only does he
appear to he thoroughly cured of drinking, hub his
appearance, which "had been degenerating, has improved,
and his color is healthy and bright. In short, the man
seems not only to have been purged of disease, but also
renewed mentally and physically.”
R. M. Me. ANDERSON, 38 Pitt-St.
“ 1 sent a gentleman to Mr, Thomas for treatment in
April, 1894 —about, the worst case I ever knew—and the
effects have been most wonderful.”
ARCHDEACON LANGLEY.
“In the case of a gentleman whom/S recommended
to the Orient for treatment of dipsomania (May, 1894),
the cure was both rapid and lasting.”
FATHER LE RENNETEL.
Pamphlets and all particulars free per sealed envelopes.
D. B. Thomas,
Mgr. “The Orient,”
Moore Park Unarl, SYDNEY.
I CURE FITS!
iAnd to prove -this, I will GIVE you a bottle of my
remedy for, nothing so that you may have the chance
’to try it before paying oqt any money. This shows
what I think of the remedy, and I am sure a trial of it
twill soon convince you of its sterling merit. I have
made a'life-long-study of Fits, Epilepsy, or Falling
Sickness, and whan I say CURE, do,not mean merely
to s(,op them for a time, but a radical CURE. Because
others have failed to relieve you, is no good reason why
you should continue to suffer. Send for my treatise,
’testimonials, and free bottle of medicine, and TRY IT.
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J, EYRE & Co.,
os, O’Connell Street, North Adelaide,
South Australia.
DflflT z - endsleigh guns.,
■U. KUII I, EUSTON Rd., London!
Mir. Will Xiawson,
Disease Psyehometer and HHagnetie Healer,
May be Consulted at 73 Collins-street E., Melbourne.
Me. 'Lawson will locate your complaint, and its cause,
without asking questions, or any inconvenient bodily
examination. Treatment—Hygienic, Magnetic or Herbal.
Patients at any distance can have their cases described
and treated by forwarding a lock_pf hair cut close to the
head first thing in the morning ; no other person should
handle patient’s hair. Send name and address in full
fee/ including medicine, 10/6.
Business Announcements.
■Wool Wool.
wool.
SPECIAL ATTENTION
—TO
SMALL CLIPS.
CONSIGN TO
M'BtfRNEY.WALLIS&CO.,
Circular Quay,
5? "ST ID IN’ HU "ST.
Wool.
Wool. ‘Wool.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
$
&
BUTTER-SCOTCH
|(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)!
k.
.. s<ri7Tjt>
r y/c/Lc/u^x^
Lancet
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
gffifi
.
:---S
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt & Hunter Streets,
•—S Y D N B "ST
ROOMS BY ARRANGEMENT
(Board Optional).
MEALS A LA CARTE.
First-class Luncheon Daily.
ELECTRIC LIGHT THROUGHOUT.
HOT & GOLD BATHS
GEO. BAUMANN - Proprietor
(Caterer hy appointment to the Governor),
Manufactures Royales de Corsets FD.
French PD Corsets.
mm
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMKS D’HOffIEDR,
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Borsdorff & Go.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
20 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
AND AT
A.d.elaicie & Hobart.
Trade Mark.
c
53
CT>
C*3
2
(Pa
&
c>
&
%
Tales of the Austral Tropics
g
si
Mr
- 8
U 0
M
CLEVELANB STREET SYDNEY.
INTO MORE TOOTHACHE
—BY USING —
leXSllxlr Dentifrice#
OF THE ’ *,
Rev. BENEDICTINE FATHERS,
' OX.X'V^JTjA.IIsrS,
Or tbb ABBEY OP SOULAC, GIRONDE, PRANCE.
; '
GOLD MEDALS
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, BRUSSELS, 1880.
At LONDON, 1884.
Also at LYONS, 1894.
Invented by the Jiev, Prior Boursaud in 1373 .
WHOLESALE AGENTS: L '•
B. METAYEII & CO., 8 O’Connell-st., Sydney.
Obtainable from ELLIOTT UROS, and all Chemists,
&
O'Ci I
e/i
<r
u
mm
/-. • m
Business Announcements
CC YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- ELDRIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOHK STB Li IST, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
HAIK IHC ESSE ItS ANH WIGMAKAKS.
To the Trade.
Just Lauded.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Beatquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d.; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from our pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 it 683 George Street, Sydney.
Hotels.
The Imperial Arcade Hotel,
PITT STREET,
S y d. n e y.
/CONTAINING over 100 rooms, furnished throughout
with a due regard to comfort. Replete with every
modern convenience. Now wider the sole management
of Mr. GEORGE COHEN, of the Federal
Coffee Palace, Melbourne.
The bedrooms are light, lofty and airy, are fitted with
Electric-light. Hot and Cold Baths are adjacent to the
bedrooms. For the convenience of Visitors large Drawing,
Rending, Smoking and Billiard rooms are provided. The
cuisine is supervised by Mr. Cohen, which is a guarantee
sufficient that a first-class menu will be provided, and
Visitors can arrange for full or partial board.
Single Rooms, 15s. ; Double Rooms, 30s. per Week.
Correspondence punctually attended to.
GEORGE COHEN, Manager.
-THE-
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Has been THOROUGHLY RENOVATED am)
RE-FURNISHED,
And I am NOW READY to RECEIVE my
Old and New Friends.
Thos. Asclxe
(late of Royal Hotel),
PROPRIETOR.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar ... Proprietor.
Missing Priends.
DETECTIVES.-LLOYD’S DETECTIVE AGENCY,
NEXT OF-KIN and UNCLAIMED MONEY
OFFICES, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne.—Confidential
inquiries of every description instituted by expert delec
lives in all parts of the colonies and abroad.
IST” MILLIONS UNCLAIMED.
LLOYD’S REGISTER of Chancery heirs, unclaimed
money and property, legatees, and persons advertised fot
to claim money for the past century. Search therein and
full particulars, 10,6. Legacies, reversions, annuities, etc.,
collected through guaranteed agents, and advances made
thereon. P. J. SHEEHAN, General Manager.
‘THE LAST OF SIX?


B L I IN P S.
The word is suggest! ve. Many dealers keep their
customers very much in the dark as to th'e true
state of things. So to speak, they get behind the>r
own blinds because the circumstances won’t allow
them to emerge into the full light.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN CHINA
writes as follows :
I should like to mention certain matters in connection
with the blind trade. With every order I place IiNSISI
ON INSPECTION before packing, with the result that
not less than 25 to 30 per cent, are rejected. But I find
this season a Ann has placed large orders, b'ut ABSO-
LUTELY 'NO INSPECTION takes place, consequently
makers are competing for the orders at lower rates on
these terms.
We take our friends behind the scenes so that
they may see WHAT A TRAGEDY the blind
trade is, and so that they may, when buying blinds,
discriminate between honest dealers and the other
sort. No doubt the blinds WHICH ARE
SHIPPED WITHOUT INSPECTION are
offered at lower prices than SELECTED BLINDS,
but wise people will prefer giving a trifle more,
should it be necessary, with the certainty of get-
ting BLINDS which offer some show of protec-
tion, and that do not tumble in pieces after a
fortnight’s wear.
BAMBOO BLINDS
made of the outside of skin or the bamboo in
its natural color. SPECIALLY SELECTED.
Fitted with CORDS and pulleys ready to put up.
It may be added that the CORDS are strong and
suitable, and not liable to rot and break on the
least provocation. Sizes from 3ft. wide by 6ft.
deep to 12ft. wide by Bft. deep ; prices, Is. to
ss. 6d. each blind.
CHINESE BLINDS
made of fine split bamboo, painted-green on both
sides, and fitted with CORDS and pulleys of
best quality. These blinds are SPECIALLY
SELECTED. S izes from 3ft. wide by Gft. deep
to 12ft. wide by 10ft. deep; prices from Is. Bd. to
7s. 6d. each blind.
BEAD AND REED BLINDS
Charming assortment of colors and styles. These
blinds are available for balls, doorways and win-
dows. They say they frighten the flies away. If
so, they are worth a pound an inch. Prices from
2s. 9d. to 15s.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
UNIVERSAL I'ItOVIIIEItS.
HAYMARHET (ONLY).
SYDNEY.
CARD OF INVITATION.
All those in any way troubled with their eyes are
cordially invited to visit us for (ree advice and
testing. We have nice quiet consulting rooms,
thoroughly qualified Opticians and all the latest
appliances for accurate testing.
FROST t SHI PHAM
The Spectacle Makers, 384 GEORGE ST,,
Right Close to General Post Office.
Gr. H. Smith & Son,
302 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
df
SOLE AGENTS
FOR—
A USTB.ALIA,
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
The Celebrated Pipe,
GBD
Excels ALL Others.
FIRST PRIZE ALL EXHIBITIONS.
Wholesale Depot :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Itching Skin Humors
Torturing ; Disfiguring Eczemas
And every species of itching, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, pimply,
and blotchy skin and scalp diseases are relieved in the majority
of cases by a single application, and speedily, permanently and
economically cured by the Cuticura
Remedies when the best physicians,
hospital's, and all other remedies fail.
No language can exaggerate the suf-
fering of those afflicted with these dis-
eases, especially of little babies, whose
tender skins are literally on fire.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and agreeable to the most sensi-
tive, and may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with
gratifying and unfailing success.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, instantly allays
the most intense itching, burning, ami inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, heals raw and irri-
tated surfaces, cleanses the scalp of crusts and scales, and restores the hair. Cuticura
Soap, the only medicated toilet soap, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces.
Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor reme-
dies, cleanses the blood of all impurities, and thus removes the cause. lienee, the
Cuticura Remedies cure every humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with los6 of hair.
4Qr“How to Cure Diseases op the Skin and ..Blood, ”64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illus-
trations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every battle of the Cut icura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura. 50c.; Cuticura Soap,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, sr. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemig-a-l CoicEV, Boston, U. S. A.
■?
a*
Pimply Skin
red, rough-hands, pah-ii.il finger ends and shapeless nails
a,re prevented and” cured Jjy Cuticura in-
comparably the greatest of skin purifters and beautificrs,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity tire most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps*
The only medicated toilet-soap and, the only preventive a-fitf cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimoles. blackheads, rough, red, and oilv s 1 "’ *>—l rV«r'>» humors of Infants.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
RESTORES
Color, Fullness, and Beauty
TO HAIR
Which has become Wiry, Thin, or Gray.
It cures Itching 1 Humors, and keeps the scalp cool,
moist, healthy, and
Aver’s Hair Vigor is an elegant toilet article, —a
favorite with ladies and gentlemen alike.
It imparts to the hair, beard, and mous-
tache a beautiful silkiness, and a delicate
and lasting fragrance.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., LoweJf, Mass., U. S. A.
_A.II Druggists arid. Perfumers.
of cheap imitations. The name—Ayer is prominent on the
wrapper, and is blown in the'glass at the of each bottle.
FREE FROM DANDRUFF.
• 1
gd
CORNETS;
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to ba
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n., £l2 12/-
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowdst Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ®N APPLICATION TO
AEIS g”*** \f gjf 227 Lit. CplHns-st.,
. I . DTr\Lw, Melbourne.——**.
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
Agent for F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
W K WANT YOU T 0 THOROUGHLY understand that
JOH3XT GILLESPIE & 00.,
BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
Eastern Merchants, Bice, Spice and Coffee Manufacturers,
OAT & BARLEY MILLE,RS, &c , &c
Are the SOLE MANUFACTURERS c£
The “ Anchor ” Brand Self-raising Flour
Grillespie’s Patenjt Roller Oatmeal
TLe KHetiive . Coffee, Grillespie’s Rolled. Oats
Grillespie’s Table Jielly Tablets
“ Wbite Rlalte” 33alting Powder, &g.^
WHICH ARE ABSOLUTELY THE VERY BEST OBTAINABLE.
USE
murat
To Coachhuiiders, Wlaeel wights, Cabine tinakers,
CarpcTtt.gi s. Builders, Painters,
and all Workers in or on Wood (hard or soft).
A Cure for Damp Buildings. Prevents Shrinkage®
Central Depot: Liclitner & Co. Ltd., 14 Carrington-street, Wynyajd Square, SYDNEY.'
Agencies : Jas. McEwau & Co. Ltd, MELBOURNE; Elder Smith & Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE
To he bought from all leading STOREKEEPERS and IRONMONGERS throughout the Colonies. . Send for. Pamphlet containing Testimonials and all particulars.
Bards of the Backblocks.
MICK DOOLEY’S PANTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They brought a boy ffom Tallaran to run Mick
Dooley’s tracks ‘
They yarded him the fastest blood among the
fetation cracks,
With mdles and shirt and feloucher hat and pipe
with broken stem.
He slung into the saddle straight and waved his
hand to them.
The Sub, was lately out from “’Ome,” the
troopers both were green,
The tracking of an outlaw was a game they had
not seen;
This chippy little nigger and the antics that he
played—
They were rolling off their saddles at the funny
sight he made!
The tracker had a roving eye, he laughed a saucy
laugh,
He grinned as they were grinning, and he gave
them chaff for chaff;
The troopers both were solid men whose brains
had run to beef,
Bub when the boy got moving all their mirth was
turned to grief.
He was cautious ’mong the melon-holes, but when
the plain was sound
He led ’em at a gallop with his eyes upon the
ground.
And as odds are on a thoroughbred against a
trooper’s hacks
They were somewhat disconcerted at this mode of
running tracks.
He took ’em down the Flinders where the spear-
grass lined the brink,
Then crossed a stage of forty miles—without a
drop to drink,
And down the beds of dried-up creeks they
wandered all day long
Till life seemed, in a trooper’s view, one endless
billaboug.
Then turned he sharply to the west—the blue
M‘Ki'nlay Range,
And gave them joys of spinifex, in case they
wished a change;
And up and down the stony hills they tracked the
guilty Mick,
Except when they required a rest to be a little
sick.
They hauled their horses after them when hills
were tough and high,
And still the Sub. remarked “ Bai Jove;” his
eyeglass in his eye.
And still the blackboy pointed to the tracks which
he had seen,
Until they fairly bottomed—they had struck a
blind ravine !
Then one sharp-eyed suffering trooper gave a
grunt of savage joy
And called aloud unto the Sub. and pointed to the
boy :
“ The name upon them trousers ! Sure as God
made little ants—
Look, sir, this imp of Satan wears a pair of
Dooley’s pants.”
Like thought the tracker wheeled his mount and
vanished from their sight,
But as he thundered down the gorge he yelled
with all his might :
“ Mick Dooley’s crossed the Border now—no run
dat feller in—
Next time you want um tracker, boss—don’t yet
Mick Dooley's yin I ”
ESSEX EVANS.
AN AUSTRALIAN BIRD-SONG: THE
KOOKABURRA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Millie May made the sunshine brighter
When her can she went bo fill,
Where the Bogan brook comes tumbling
Through the cleft in the granite hill.
Sandy Gray saw an ankle gleaming
As he ambled along that way—
“ Just the girl for an old man’s darling
tip there, mates ! What d’ye say ?”
Then the kookaburra laughing
Did to kookaburra call,
With a j.olly, jolly ku-ku, ku-ku,
Ku-ku, ku-ku, ku-ku, ku-ku, ha-ha-ah-ah,
Ha! ha ! ha !
Old Sandy came a-wooiug
To the hut by the Bogan gate,
Millie May was a damper mixing
As ho rode through the paddock gate;
The wise old bird came roosting
Oil a bough just overhead,
Millie looked up sly and wicked,
And just guess what the old bird said—
“ Sure old fools will be still fools,
Now heed what may befall,
Witli a jolly, jolly, &c.
“Mr. Gray, oh my, you’re welcome,
Mr. Gray, will you please sit down ?
Sure, mother she’s off to the station,
And the old man’s gone to town.”
Then old Sandy’s beard went wagging,
And the old bird laughed right out,
And every mate who heard him
Came roosting round about.
But never a sound they uttered,
Twas a bird in the bush let fall
His distant ku-ku, &c.
Old Sandy he meant business,
And made the running fast—
“Oh, Millie, Millie May, I love you,
And I’ve got it out at last.”
Millie May didn’t wait to answer,
But she made him understand—
And not with a kiss bub a sounding smack
Of a right strong floury hand.
And was ever there heard such laughter
As these sad old birds made all,
With their jolly, jolly ku-ku ku-ku, &c.


A UBtralAaia.
3MCiitu.a.l Provident
IMPORTANT NOTICE;
Society.
All POLICIES ISSUED
Before the END of the YEAR will
BHARB3 Xisf THE EOHTJS FOB THE TBAE
(Ail Bonuses vest immediately on Policies attaining a duration of Two Years.)
£Me amount of gash §onus
Pistiibuted
Policy holders for the
§ne $ear{1894) was £428,021.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, ancl send in ttieir applications early, either'direot or
through the Society’s aeents.and certainly NOT LATER than 31st DECEMBER,’1896, so as to secure a share
, of the profits as at that date.
Directors f—The' Hon. Sir 3. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman; J. R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
A. W, MEEKS, Esq., j.P. j j, T. WALKER, Esq.; R. J. KING, Esq.; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; and THOS.
LITTLEJOHN, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, I'M.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Omc»t 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
A Good Carver wants a good knife. We think we have
as good a stock of Cutlery as any house
in Sydney, and we want your opinion
about our think. Call on us if you
want anything in this line, or anything
else in Hardware. Have just landed
the new L.K and C. Bread Knife, which
is a revelation, price 1/3 —the old style
has now got to go. Razors, hollow
ground, from 1/6 upwards.
MXean Bros, & Rigg Ltd., 512-14 George-st., Sydney.
m
/ 3
W
»;a»
s>SESV£ft
.
m
; d
m «a
f«
Masrai!
....:;
PARKER’S
AUSTRALIAN
Hair Preserver.
PURITY. EXCELLENCE.
A Marvellous Remedy for the Hair
and Scalp.
Promotes Growth.
Bento res Daudrtt ff.
USE IT AND NEVER BECOME BALD.
zs- JUmemter: Prevention is Better than Cure.
Ladies will find it a perfect boon. It is not a dye.
It is not sticky or greasy. One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
A.ll Chemists, 3s. 6d.
By Post. 4s. 31.
WlioTesa'e—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Australian Drug
Co. ; Feldlieim, G-otthelf & Co., etc., etc.
Sole Agent: J. Curtin, 84 Market-st., Sydney,
THE SHARFLES
RUSSIAN CREAM SEPARATORS
g
Require no Engine, Shafting or Belting.
Deliver the Cream thoroughly aerated and Cooled.
Are Simple, Easily -Washed, and not liable to need
Repairs.
Require no Oiling while Running,
Are Fuel-savers, Room-savers, Cream-savers, and Money
Makers.
Are the Perfection of Skimming Machines.
“ The Bowl alone Revolves.”
SOLE AGENTS FOii NEW SOUTH WALES:
DEN K A JVC BROTHEKS,
154 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
d
PR O CLAMA.XIOKT.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO CIGARETTE SMOKERS.
WE teg to inform our customers and cigarette smokers generally that the American Tobacco Co,,
Ltd., of N.S.W., who control the sale of cigarettes known under the brands of “ Allen and
Ginter’s Straight-cut No. 1,” “Cameo” and “ Old Judge,” and who manufacture the colonial-made
cigarettes called “ Pure Gold ” and “ Dixon’s No. I,’’ have given us official notice that they will not
supply us with any of their American-made cigarettes unless we agree to relinquish the agency held by
us for New South Wales for the world-renowned English firm of W. D. and H. O. WILLS, Limited,
the manufacturers of those popular high-class cigarettes known as
“ THIIR-lEIE CASTLES” and “ C-A-IPST-A-HST.”
We have declined to conform with this request, as we feel it would not be to the nterest of
cigarette smokeis in New South Wales to allow the American Tobacco Co.. Limited, to monopolise
the whole of the cigarette trade. We, therefore, appeal to cigarette smokers to try the celebrated
Wills’ “Three Castles” and “Capstan” Cigarettes,
And compare their quality with that of any other. We are confident that their verdict will be in
favor of the
“Three Castles” and “Capstan” Cigarettes,
And by smoking these they will prevent any one Company from attempting to dictate what people
should or should not smoke.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO. Agents for W. D. and H. 0. WILLS, Ltd.).
Gr R OS VENOR S OTE L,
Corner of GEORGE and ANN STREETS, BRISBANE- '
films very convenient Hotel has recently undergone complete re-arrangement, and been Re
I Furnished and fitted with all the bej3t hotel advantages. The Culinary attractions are especially
good. Best Commercial Luncheon in the City, and the Wines, Ales, Spirits and Liqueurs of Special
(Quality. Visitors and ordinary hotel patrons will do well to test the present high-class character of
the GROSVENOR. Splendid Room (holds 200 people) available, without cost, for meetings of
Athletic Clubs, Societies, Mining Companies, or the discussion of any legitimate public business.
O. E. S. OAx-ca-r-cla., PROPRIETOR.
THE LONDON & MELBOURNE
TAILORING CO.,
31 to 33 EESKINE STREET,
Have JUST OPENED a New Shipment of Fashionable Goods, suitable for the present season,
ex Oratava. Country residents should avail themselves of this opportunity to send for our Samples,
Measurement Forms and Tape—Free by Post.
Remember our Noted Trices
SAC SUITS to Measure ... ... 45/-
TROUSERS „ ... ... 12/6
Aee OiiDEBS Deeiveuee rxiEE BY PakCEE POST. S. M. IiAUMASHE Manager.
Business Announcements.
A COMPLETE SET, ONE GUINEA.
THE
LONDON; DENTAL INSTITUTE.
fg
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH.—A Complete Set, ONE GUINEA
Tlie LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE, 98
KING STREET, SYDNEY.—SingIe Tooth,
2/6; precisely the same CELEBRATED
GOLD and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, pain.
lessLy fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION,
as advertised at the highest cost by other
firms. FIVE YEARS' WARRANTY.
Country patients supplied in one visit.
PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages :
Absolute painless treatment, no unneces-
sary extractions, perfect and permanent
life-like appearance. Special soft palates
for tender gums.
SEND or CALL for our Great WORK on DEN-
TISTRY, post free on application to the
LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE, 98
KING-ST., two doors from Pitt-st., the
only address. Hours, 9to 6.
Branches:
HIKING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
142 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
167 SVVANSTON STEET, MELBOURNE.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SIVJf u y, 2f. a. WI L JES.
dfg
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week,
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
TUfR. AUBREY DAVIS, Dentist, of 492 George-
street (Royal Arcade), SYDNEY, has spared no
expense in fitting-up his luxurious consulting rooms with
the latest dental appliances. The Operating Chair is a
work of art, in which the patient can be raised, lowered,
or placed in any required position by hydraulic power.
Extraction is performed painlessly without Ether or
Chloroform, by spraying the gum with a new local
anesthetic—“ Chloride of Ethyl.” Artificial teeth of the
best quality are fitted at prices not much more than half
the rates commonly charged a few years ago.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 GEORGE STREET.
S Y D ]\T £i Y.
Specialties JUST ARRIVED for the XMAS
Trade.
H. Li. Hutchinson ... Manager.
HE LAST OF SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d,
Public Companies.
INSURE with a COLONIAL COMPANY.
THE
City Mutual Fire
INstllUim COMPANY, Limited.
HEAD
OFFICE:
d
95
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Chairman:
J OHN SEE Esq., M.P. (late Colonial Treasurer.)
The CITY MUTUAL Eire Company is a purely
Australian institution, having a large and in-
fluential body of shareholders, all closely identified
with and contributing to the prosperity of Aus-
tralia. All funds invested in the colony. Rates
are lowest. Settlements prompt and equitable.
A Cash Bonus paid Insurers every year.
ItOliEliT KKltlt, Manager.
B3T Transacts FIRE insurance business ONLY.
Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society,
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
RESERVE & INVESTMENT FUNDS, *117,030.
UNCALLED CAPITAL, £75,000.
PURELY a COLONIAL OFFICE, deriving
its income from New South Wales only, no risks
being taken outside the colony.
A BONUS of 20 PER CENT, has been paid
annually since 1873, divided between Policy-
holders and Shareholders. The amount thus dis-
tributed totals £118,651.
Claims promptly and liberally settled. FIF-
TEEN DAYS’ GRACE allowed for Renewal
of Policies —a protection afforded by no other
Fire Insurance Company.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Heap Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets, Sydney.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd,
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The Cash Bonus of 20 per cent on Premiums foy
the year 1894 —viz., .£8695, divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of Policies
making £73,575 divided in Cash between Policy-
holders and Shareholders in twelve years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. JAd. of London,
Passenger Policies for Travellers In-
suring against Accidents & Shipwreck.
Australian Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide; P--P.-Plummer. L. A. Jessov, Director.-
Melbourne: D, Clynb. Brisbane: T. Wblsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
58 Pitt Street. SYDNEY
SSES v
mms*.
m
M
Adopted by DIXSON&SONS.for their
HighestCrade.Mild Plug Tobacco.
“ YANKEE DOODLE” is everywhere spoken of as the finest plug-tobacco that has evei
appeared here, and it has won greater success during the short time it has been on the market than
anything previously. This is no idle boast, and, to prove it, any smoker can test the statement for
there are few towns in N.S.W. where “YANKEE DOODLE” is not known and sold. Its’sale
has this year increased nearly one hundred (100) per cent over that of last year. And why is this?
Simply that “YANKEE DOODLE” has struck the popular taste. In the first place, it comes, after
years ,of careful study, from a combination of certain choice Virginian tobaccos, so blended apd
exquisitely flavoured, that any smoker who can stand a tobacco heavier than the pure gold-leaf is
forced to admit that he has at last discovered something far and away better than anything he has
been accustomed to, DIXSON & SONS have taken over half-a-century to accomplish this; and as
their leading business has been built up on their reputation for QUALITY, they could not afford to
make the foregoing statement if any doubt existed. DIXSON & SONS, who use more American leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories combined, are noted for several high-class brands* “OON
QUEROR,” “SIRROGER,” “CHAMPION,” and “DOLLAR;” but “YANKEE DOODLE*
ranks supreme.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by pest as a ITempaper.
Vol. 16.—N0. 823.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1895.
Prick, 6d.
msr
WtoUA
4
Mss
NSh/1
WHAT J. CHAMBERLAIN SEES THROUGH HIS EYEGLASS.
“In a speech Mr. Chamberlain said he foresaw that Australia was destined to outstrip the waning greatness of older countries in Europe, and in time to become
‘historically visible.’”
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY IS ALREADY “VISIBLE” TO J. BULL.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians.”
Proprietors and Publishers:
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. (Limited).
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... .... .... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pgp-JiyAlost-Jlfficc-. One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province, you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of oar carriers, with whom we do not wish to
interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Netospaper-Clippings. All
sommunications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MS. when
Ike address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lUacle and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event, will
be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture containing
a good or adaptable idea, hut unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture whifi has to he re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions tinder
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can he obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal : The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also :—R A. ’Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Westralia and Maoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is now £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage. England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can he sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1896.
The Unemployed.
Once a year or so the Labor-party moves
the adjournment of N.S.W. Assembly to call
attention to the necessity of doing “some-
thing ” for the unemployed, and, its regular
time having arrived, the regular motion came
along last week and was discussed in the
regular desultory fashion. Nothing in par-
ticular ensued, save the high-toned contempt
of the Superior Person who edits the daily
paper. When Premier Reid was merely
Leader of the Opposition, one of his bitterest
accusations against the then Premier Dibbs
was that the latter politician hadn’t solved
the unemployed problem, and one of the
reasons why Reid was put in Dibbs’,s place
was his emphatic promise that when he
attained to power he would find the long-
sought-for solution. He has been in power
for a considerable time, and the only change
so far is that he has employed a few of the
workless multitude at forest-thinning and
sand-shifting with borrowed money, whereas
his predecessor sent a few of them out fos-
sicking without the borrowed money. In
each case, however, the relief made no
visible impression on the great mass of
trouble. Premier Reid also promises to
borrow more money and set a few more of
the unemployed to making roads and
bridges, which is the same remedy that
his predecessors have adopted for thirty
years past with no good results. And
when, in a few months, the borrowed
money is spent, the temporary laborers will
be discharged, and things will be just where
they were, except that the addition to the
public debt will have made them a little
worse than before.
• • #
In short, Premier Reid t promises to do
something large and statesmanlike and really
effective for the unemployed only brand him
once more as a windy humbug. He has
nothing new to propose ; his relief works
and his borrowed money are only the same
old futile passing of the responsibility on to
posterity which has been the policy of all his
predecessors. Parliament also has nothing
definite to suggest. The Labor-party which
persistently urges that “something ’ shall
be done fails to define that something in any
useful fashion ; it only beats the air and
demands in a hazy fashion that a person not
defined shall rise up and do a thing not very
well specified. And the daily press sneers
in a lofty fashion, on the ground that
there always have been more or less of the
“ unemployed,” and therefore there always
will be, and the man who talks about
abolishing this evil is a fool and a dreamer.
This, at least, is wholly illogical. There
always has been crime, yet the world
goes on trying to suppress it by the same
devices which have never been a complete
success for 6000 years or more. There
always has been disease, and the world
keeps pottering along manfully in search of
new remedies. There always, so far as is
known, have been drink and immorality and
dirt and bad language and ugliness and want
of religious sentiment and war and many
other unpleasant things, and man keeps on
trying to effect small improvements in all
these directions and yet makes very slow
progress. And if mankind is to let go the
great problem of poverty because it looks so
large and hopeless, then it should let all the
others go also for the same reason, and
allow the world to slide.
* * m
Among all the uncertainty of the unem-
ployed problem a few things are still reason-
ably sure. Nothing can be done in any
one province by laying down the axiom
suggested by the N.S.W. Labor-party that
it is the duty of the State to find work for all
who need it ; to do so would only mean that
that particular province would have to find
work for all the unemployed of Australasia.
An attempt was recently made to embody
the same axiom in the Swiss constitu-
tion, but it was promptly rejected by
popular vote on the ground that its
adoption would presently compel Switzer-
land to find work for all the unemployed of
Europe. When Australia is federated, and
the law rigidly excludes from its shores the
poverty-stricken aliens of Asia and the worst
class of European pauperism, then the State
may assume the responsibility on certain
conditions. The work supplied must be paid
for out of revenue ; to create work with
borrowed money only means that the evil is
postponed, not abolished, and that when
borrowing ceases, either through the col-
lapse of the money-market or through in-
ability to pay more interest, the unemployed
evil will be worse and more utterly hopeless
than before. Also, the work must be of a
sort that will yield revenue, either directly
or indirectly, else it will be a mere system
of pauper relief, and the taxation of the
community to relieve poverty will create
more poverty, and the latter end of the
country will be worse than the beginning.
Moreover, it must be recognised that the
“finding” of work for the unemployed is,
at the best, a mere surface remedy and
doesn’t touch the actual disease. In a
healthy and well-organised community work
should not require “finding”—it should
exist in the natural course of things. But,
meanwhile, k.,is necessary to deal with
things as they are, and to find the best
remedy that can. be devised without handing
down the trouble with compound interest in
the future.
* * *
One of the suggestions advanced by the
Labor-party is that the State should con-
struct public works with money raised by
the issue of a local paper-currency. The
ordinary note-circulation of New South
Wales is about £1,500,000, and a gold
reserve of £400,000 would be far more than
sufficient to keep the circulation afloat.
This would leave the State £1,100,000 as a
permanent loan. Therefore it follows that,
if this amount was invested in railways
which yielded even per cent, on the
cost of construction, it would mean a
considerable amount of employment in the
immediate present and—after allowing for
the maintenance of the pape.r-currency—a
steady revenue of about per annum
to the Treasury. But the assumption that
this would be all profit is unfortunately
erroneous. The Treasury, under the latest
Banking Act, makes no less than £33,000 a
year by taxing the circulation of the private
banks, so the amount to be gained by this
change of system is not so large as it appears.
At the best, the State would get a loan of
£1,100,000 per annum at a cost in revenue
and working expenses of some £35,000 a
year. The principal object of a State-note
issue is the security of the currency, but the
actual profit to be derived from this single
branch of the State Bipik would be very
limited, for a time, at all events,
• *
Beyond this there is another possible ex-
pedient for raising money also advocated in
certain quarters—a forced paper currency.
There is no doubt that New South Wales
could carry a certain amount of forced
currency-possibly as much as £1,500,000
without depreciation ; only two years ago it
carried a-considerably larger amount at° the
most disastrous period of its history with no
visible ill-effects. Under this system, no
gold-reserve would be required, and the
whole £1,500,000 would be available. The
hackneyed argument that in Russia and
some states of South and Central America,
where the system has been carried to
ridiculous excess, and solely because of that
excess, it has resulted in a very heavy fall in
values proves nothing. In Central America,
the principle of popular suffrage, instead of
producing political liberty, has got strangely
mixed up with revolutions, riots, bloodshed
and military dictatorships, but no such
results have followed in Australia, and the
one illustration is quite as much to the point
as the other. The real objections to the
forced paper currency idea in this case are
that it is only a temporary and insufficient
expedient, and that, as it would almost
inevitably drive the ordinary bank-notes out
of circulation, the large annual revenue at
present derived from the note tax would
be lost, and a profitable branch of the
business of the future State Bank wholly
destroyed. Therefore, the State would be
simply raising money in the present by
sacrificing revenue in the future, which is so
much akin to the old device of passing the
trouble on to posterity that it has very little
to recommend it. And, in any case, the un-
employed trouble has grown to such dimen-
sions that a much larger measure of relief is
wanted than can be obtained from any paper
currency system.
• mm
Another and more permanent form of
relief, which so far doesn’t seem to be advo-
cated by any political party, is the simple
and straightforward method of raising another
£500,000 per annum by taxation, or saving
£500,000 per annum out of expenditure, or
doing both at once, and spending the pro-
ceeds in public works. There are many
railways still wanting to be built in New
South Wales which might easily pay 1 per
cent, on their cost, but which certainly
cannot pay per cent, for many years to
come, and therefore cannot be built with
borrowed money without becoming a heavy
burden on the Treasury. The possibility of
saving £500.000 per annum out of expendi-
ture is sufficiently evidenced by the enor-
mous cost of governing New South Wales
as compared with the adjacent province of
Victoria. The possibility of raising another
£500,000 of revenue without unduly distress-
ing the community is demonstrated by the
fact that New South Wales is now much
more lightly taxed than Queensland, Maori-
land, Westralia, Tasmania, Victoria, or Great
Britain, and, in proportion to the alleged
wealth of the inhabitants, it is almost—if not
quite—the most lightly-taxed country upon
earth. If £1,000,000 per annum were raised
in the manner suggested, and spent upon
necessary public works, one-half of which
yielded no direct revenue while the other
half returned only 1 per cent., it would
solve the unemployed problem in a great
measure for the present, and would, in 20
years, even if the returns did not advance
beyond the preliminary 1 per cent., supply
a revenue of £lOO,OOO per annum. It would
also do more or less indirect good to the
country, according to the intelligence with
which the money was invested. There is
absolutely no reason why this expedient
should not be adopted, save that peculiar
kink in the character of the cornstalk in-
habitant, which makes him boast his country
to be the richest on earth, while, at the same
time, he declares its utter inability to sup-
port a burden of taxation which much poorer
communities endure with apparent ease.
• # *
All this has no direct bearing on the aboli-
tion of the unemployed difficulty, and even
the expenditure of £1,000,000 a year on
public works would, at the best, be only a
palliative. But, at the worst, it would be a
palliative—it would relieve much distress in
the immediate present, and add a great deal
to the aggregate wealth of the country in
the future without adding to its permanent
burdens, and it would supply some revenue,
however little, whereas the relief that is
gained by the expenditure of borrowed
money only supplies new liabilities. The
causes of the unemployed trouble are largely
the uneven distribution of wealth, and to
alleviate this evil, especially under a cum-
brous political system which seems specially
created to prevent anything being accom-
plished, is a work of much time and diffi-
culty. Meanwhile it is necessary to do
something, and shifting the burden on
to posterity by raising foreign loans is not
doing anything. The unemployed problem
can’t be solved by mere theories, nor by any
process which will cost nothing, nor can it
be left alone on the false and foolish theory
that it is the natural order of things and a
part of the great scheme of creation, nor can
it be honestly passed on to future genera-
tions. All the methods yet devised for
immediate relief involve the expenditure of
much money, and the only sane process is to
raise that money by increasing revenue and
redueing expenditure, and invest the amount
thus saved to the best advantage.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Governor Brassey and “The Age.”
The grovel-rash apparent on the surface of
Victoria for some weeks past is a good deal
owing to its “ radical ” daily print. All such
skin diseases originate in -the press, and are
more ©r less epidemic, according to the amount
of space devoted to “ loyalty ’’-germ culture by
Eenny news-sheets. And until the average
uman being shall have quite eradicated the
ungodlike instinct of snobbery from Ids nature,
the worship of new Governors will be en-
couraged by what is called “ respectable jour-
nalism.” In the x ordinary way of business
Melbourne’s Argus and ’ Age, for instance,
must, both of them, grovel to live. On the
other hand, they are not compelled to live to
grovel, and Democracy asks of a journal alleged
to be democratic that it will at times, when
the aforesaid grovel-rash is unavoidable, do as
little as possible to circulate the loathsome
infection. One scarcely expects this moderation
In evil-doing of a Tory print, like the Arguß.
which has a political licence to take its Lord
Brassey very seriously, and a standing order
from sassiety to exaggerate his Excellency’s
public and private importance, If ah ArHuß
choose to lick the new Governor’s boots its self-
aba'sement is not out of harmony With “ loyal ”
fanaticism, whereas a radical editor is not en-
titled to do more, under the worst of Circum-
stances, than pat Brassey’s vice-regal back.
J herefore, the more reasonable portion of
Melbourne has been astounded to find
the Conservative flunkey paying some respect
to common sense, whilst the Age lay prostrate
at Lord B.’s feet, caressing his ,’Ome-made
uppers with its staunch Protectionist tongue.
In recording the Governor’s arrival, the “ Radi-
cal reporters out-A roused their brethren on
the rival publication. From day to day the
Age has maintained this disgusting-,supremacy
in idolising the golden calf. Last week Brassey
presided over a free-and-easy concert at the
Seamen s Institute, Port Melbourne. A
plain, 20-line paragraph notice of the puny
event sufficed for the Argus, but the
Age broke out into another column of con-
tagious inflammation. In a full -and par-
ticular account of all that the new Governor
said and did at the little nautical corroboree,
the rag actually gloated over an incident which
it should have deplored. A seaman, named
Wild, sang a song. Here is the Age’s com-
ment on his vocal effort ; “ Mr. JVild i s a
member of the Sunbeam’s crew, and Lord
Brassey, in announcing him, pleasantly re-
marked, ‘ Mr. Wild and I have swept the seas
together.’ At the conclusion of his"song, and
as he was returning to his seat. Lord Brassey
leaned over to address him privately. ' 4 The sea-
faring members of the audience were routed to
cheer his • Excellency's action in conversing with
one of his crew , and as the noise thus made pre-
cluded the continuance of the conversation,
Lord Brassey smilingly remarked, ‘ Ah, I
thought I might have been permitted a small
exchange of confidence with Mr. Wild.’ A
paper pretending to champion the masses i\ the
classes doesn’t, as a rule, publish a large
quantity of that sort of stuff within three
weeks unless something has occurred to change
its entire frame of mind. The Bulletin
begins to fancy that Governor Brassey has
bought a half-share in the Age.
The Flogging- Superstition,
Some of the casual doings of last holiday
deserve to be thought over very hard by the
legislators of New South Wales when the next
Tlogging Bill comes up for consideration.
Whenever the necessity to do something for
the suppression of the larrikin curse becomes
more than usually apparent some breezy legis-
lator of tbe R. L. O’Connor species conies for-
ward with a Bill for the copious flogging of the
local rowdy—when he is caught—on the alleged
ground that the present laws are not sufficient
to deal with the evil. The real trouble,
according to all thinking people, is that the
present laws haven’t even had a trial. There
are not half enough policemen to find and run
in the larrikin to begin with, and the natural
consequence is that in about 99 per cent, of
cases he isn t captured, and if he can’t be caught
it really doesn’t matter what awful things
might happen to him if he was caught. And
on the very rare occasions when he is arrested
and a particularly bad case is proved against him,
a weak-kneed magistracy, instead of givingdiim
the full term in gaol, or committing him for trial
so that he may get a spell of penal servitude,
generally fines him 40s. On the recent holiday,
the Sydney “push” took possession of Manly
bodily and held a reign of terror. In the princi-
pal street alone about a dozen bloodthirsty fights
took place on a large scale, and, after one of
them, three insensible wrecks were left on the
pavement. The worst case had his face almost
destroyed through being kicked in and his
features trampled on, and when the push had
moved on, and was starling a new fight with
beer-bottles further down the street, he was
removed to the hospital. The other two
merely had their heads somewhat jumped upon,
and were dragged into a quiet spot to revive.
Similar scenes went on all day, and the scanty
police force, as a rule, didn’t turn up, either
because it was too much engaged elsewhere or
else because the odds were a great deal too
heavy ; and no reinforcements of any value
arrived from the city. Not one of the real
rioters was arrested, and, considering that they
were several hundred strong, all the flogging-
laws in creation wouldn’t have made their
arrest any more practicable. Even if R. E.
O’Connor devised a statute for boiling tbe
obnoxious rowdy alive, when he is caught, it
would make no difference so long as
the law isn’t strong enough to catch
him, or doesn’t dare to put the sta-
tutes in operation on the rare occa-
sions when an arrest is effected. Under
present conditions the stereotyped legislators
whose one idea of suppressing disorder is to
enact that something awful will happen when
they get hold of the criminal are just as ridicu-
lously futile as an inebriated aboriginal in the
back-blocks who is going to kill the white man
Government with a waddy when he captures it.
What is wanted first of all is a police-force
strong enough to arrest the brutal larrikin with
reasonable regularity and a magistracy that has
pluck enough to enforce the existing laws
when he is arrested. It is time enough to
think of fixing up new deterrents when the old
deterrents have had a trial.
Vomited Slightly.
The Boodlewraith policy is nauseous, but Q.
Parliamentary majority swallows it, for the
most part, without a wry face. The strongest
stomach, however, has its queasy turns, and
occasionally the Government proffers a dose
which even the Government’s undiscriminatiim
supporters reject. Such- was the-M-rranr ratri
way, which the beaten Ministry withdrew last
week with ill-concealed disgust. Queensland
heavily-taxed, with a huge deficit just con-
verted into funded debt, is doubtfully in
a position to build railways at all. If
she be, it is certain that she is not
in a position to construct more unprofit-
able lines. I his was so far recognised that


Parliament a couple of months ago passed
a Railways Guarantee Act, providing that a
reasonable return from new lines must be guar-
anteed, in case of deficit, by the people of the
districts through which they pass. The Mirani
line—a 25-mile extension of the existing Mackay
railway—had no public recommendation what-
ever. It is certain that it could not pay :
the railway commissioner says so, local
residents say so, everybody says so. There
is no population; nothing to yield freight;
little land of value about its course. But the
Mirani line had several strong Cabinet recom-
mendations. It passed through selection after
selection which Ministerial politicians owned or
were interested in. It furnished an admirable
bribe for the district which returns to Parlia-
ment Minister Dalrymple and Ministerial-
Advocate Ohataway. It promised to supply a
quite exceptional opportunity for patronage and
jobbery—two things which the unlucky neces-
sity for retrenchment has lately tended un-
pleasantly to lessen. So Boodlewraith fought
for it tooth and nail, wept for it, raved for it,
stonewalled for it, threatened for it. But the
scandal was too great, the job was too gross,
and the Ministerial whip could not round up
the tail at division-time. So Labor, Opposition,
and honest politics scored a victory for once—■
to their own exceeding surprise. But the inci-
dent is too rare to have prophetic value. A
worm may turn —and its stomach —but it can
never rise and stand erect. And the Queens-
land Parliamentary variety crawls far too
naturally to try.
More “ Meejum.”
Editor Bulletin, Sir —ln your issue of
August the 17th there is a friendly criticism of
bimetallism. You recognise, in the case of
wheat, that, because of the fall in silver, the
Indian fanner who exports to England gets
20 florins for a sovereign, whereas your own
exporting farmer only gets 10 florins—hence
the advantage enjoyed by the one over the
other. But you proceed to point out that, as
with the rupee, so with the depreciated peso
paper of Argentina ; and you query whether,
in the case of depreciated paper currencies, the
restoration of silver internationally would do
any good. Mr. Brett, who farms 40,000
acres in the Plate, in giving evidence before
the Royal Commission on Agriculture, now
sitting, having pointed out that, with a gold
premium of 250 per cent., the Argentine wheat
exporter got seventy shillings of his paper-
money for one sovereign, declared also that he
was paying no higher wages than when gold
was at par with paper ; and, further, that the
purchasing power of the paper peso in Argen-
tina is very little less than before. The unfair
and unnatural stimulus to exports of produce
from countries with depreciated currencies,
whether silver or paper, has ruined not only
our farmers, but also the export trades of your
seven colonies. The restoration of silver at its
old rate, 1 to 15J, v/ould evidently be effective
in cancelling the present bonus on exports
from India, China, and Japan, but your
point is—an all important point—would it
also assist us in the case of the com-
petition of Argentina and Russia? The
opinion of bimetallists is that it would ; that
gold premiums are the recognition of the
diminution of the volume of international 1 g I
tender money; restore that volume to its
normal dimensions by restoring silver, and gold
premiums will disappear. It may perhaps be
replied, “Oh, but if depreciated paper both
stimulates exports and operates as an automatic
tariff to contract imports, then debtor nations
like Russia and Argentina will again pump
additional paper-money into their circulation
even if bimetallism by Europe has brought
their paper-currency to par.” But this is not,
I think, a sound argument. Statesmen and
financiers in both countries deplore the depre-
ciation of their paper. While recognising
that it expands their exports and enables
them to pay their foreign debts which
must otherwise be in default, yet they
are aware that it hampers their domestic
exchanges and restricts their foreign credit.
But, apart from the wheat industry, look at
your tin production, which at one time promised
to show a rapid expansion. How can you work
your tin mines when there is apparently no
limit to the tonnage which Singapore can
supply from Pahang for 650 of those silver
dollars with which she pays her workers ; that
is to say, for £65 per ton, with the dollar at
10 to the sovereign, for £l3O with the dollar at
20 to the sovereign. Or look again at your
Newcastle coal-trade; Japan can supply the
Far East with unlimited coal, f.0.b., for 4 yen
per ton ; for 16s. with the yen at its old rate of
gold exchange, but for Bs. with the yen shrunk
to one half. One more illustration, which will
amuse you. Mr. Kopsch, the secretary to the
Imperial Board of Maritime Customs at
Shanghai, has pointed out to me in a recent
letter that formerly the export of English
umbrellas to China was immense; the 15s.
umbrella was retailed for dollars. When,
because of the fall of silver, the importers had
been obliged to charge seven dollars, that price
was found to be prohibitive, and at this point
Japan took up the tale, sending China a splendid
imitation of the English gingham for four
dollars. Japan has now succeeded in securing
the entire trade, and is exporting a thousand
umbrellas daily ; 362,000 for the year 1894. It
is safe to say that in the export umbrella trade
alone, at least £5OO per day, formerly paid in
wages to white men, is now being paid, because
of the fall in silver, to yellow men. Mr.
Kopsch also points out that in consequence of the
fall in her exchanges, China last year for the
first time was able to send wool to Europe, her
wool export for the year aggregating 270,000
cwts. There is no trade employing white
labor safe, if white money is to be cheapened
further by the legislation of the creditor and
bond-holding classes in the West; and happily,
even 1 though rather late in the day, our working
classes here have awakened to the fact that
cheap silver involves an unnatural and unneces-
sary competition, which is resulting in cheap
men and women.—Yours faithfully, Moreton
Prewen. Hopetoun House, South Queens-
ferry, Scotland, Oct. 1, ’95.
The White Knight and White Slavery.
Melb. Metropolitan Board of Fitz Gibbon con-
tinues its Tory methods. While he was
dedicating a slab of slaver in alleged rhyme to
the bounder Baron, one of his Commissioners
was attacking the methods of the Board :
Councillor M'Mahon (Fitzroy) said it was no use dis-
guising the fact that the minimum-wage question, as
regarded the contracts of the Metropolitan Board of
Works, was absolutely a farce. If a contractor was
detected he was fined, and the amount of fine went into
the coffers of the Board, instead of the man who had
been wronged. It had been proved that a young man, 21
years of age, with a wife and child to support, had been
working for 12s. 6d. per week at 12 hours per day, and
only 20 minutes allowed for meals.
The cynical encouragement given by Fitz-
Gibbon to this sort of thing, despite the
popular clamor against sweating, exists because
the Board consists of Fat Men, the nominees of
Fat Man, and some weak followers of Fat Man
—the Democratic minority being negligible.
The average commissioner is appointed because
he gives good dinners, or because he was dis-
appointed in not being elected mayor. Whether
he has the confidence of the ratepayers in
spending their money is not considered. He
takes his seat on the Board, and is duly
nobbled by the White Knight. The strange
thing about the Gibbon is that when he is most
in earnest and most honestly acting up to his
convictions, the interests of the Democracy are
in the greatest danger. His eloquence, his
bombast, his attorney-like cunning, are always
arrayed on the side of his honest convic-
tions, and generally against the public interest.
This suits the average commissioner right up to
his thick head—he likes to be on the side of the
pious man who howls for Rule Britannia and
damns the mere public. Sometimes, of course,
there is a small majority against FitzGibbon—
they get their resolution on the minutes and
Fitz Gibbon gets his will into fact. He is
absolute master and dominant lord over the
stomachs of his Bored, and the sooner he is
stopped making industrial war with a light
heart, the better. The remedy is direct
responsibility of the commissioners to the people
they are supposed to represent.
The Much-worried Miner.
N.S.W. Mines Minister Smith, whose thoughts
run easily to conferences, is now calling to-
gether representatives of the miners of the pro-
vince. The wardens are being instructed to
convene meetings in their districts, and these
meetings (which will probably be attended by
about one-tenth of the mining population) will
name the representatives. Just what the
Minister proposes that the conference shall do
is not clear. If he wants a damning criticism
of pretty well the whole Mines administration,
that should be easily enough got. Firstly, the
mining regulations, which are supposed to be
the miners’ good guardian angel, and conse-
quently are ordered to be set aloft at every
mine, need a thorough overhaul ; for they
rarely stand when they are brought before a
Judge. So thoroughly afraid are mining inspec-
tors of these precious regulations that they never
by any thing but a great mischance bringanaction
against the most erring of managers if he is of
a fighting sort. Take one regulation, which
very trustful miners are in the habit of pro-
nouncing with great emphasis—to the effect
that the occurrence of an accident shall be
■prima-facie evidence of neglect on the part of
the mine-owner. That was brought before Mr.
Justice Stephen in a case at Broken Hill.
“ Nonsense,” was his Honor’s remark, as he put
it aside. Then in another case—or was it the
same?—the report of the Inspector of Mines
was tendered as evidence; and his Honor
wouldn’t admit it. Then, if the regulations
are quite unreliable, so are the officers.
Example : —A miner was putting in some shots
at a Broken Hill mine. He had fired
two, and was lighting the third when
the first hole exploded. Though terribly
knocked about, he crawled away from the
face. Another miner, working some yards
away, told the boss of the accident, and appar-
ently glorified himself. The story went to the
Minister for Mines, and from the Department a
letter issued in the course of a couple of
months conveying to miner No. 2 the Minister’s
thanks for his heroic action. Then the heroic
miner’s mates came along to say that the whole
story is—well, incorrect, and make it plain that
the Minister and the Chief-Inspector are quite
prepared to act on the flimsiest ex-parte state-
ment. But that was a small blunder, though
annoying enough to the men who knew the
facts. A far more serious one was the letting
of the opal-bearing ground at White Cliffs in
huge mineral leases —a system that has led to
heart-breaking tributing. Then there is that
great way-back question of tanks on mining
fields—tanks which, somehow, the squatter
always seems to get hold of sooner or later.
There is six months’ work for a conference
here ; after that there is the prospecting-vote
question to handle; and what illustrative stories
could be told when the business comes on !
And before the conference breaks up, after hav-
ing said a word or two about a permanent
mining-accident fund, the subject of the fees
collected by mining registrars might be profit-
ably handled. What is the matter with the
Mines Department is that it has been dominated
most of the time by men who (like Minister
Smith) know nothing whatever of mining, and
who have listened to men who confound mining
and stock-jobbing and “first-robbering,” and to
theorists, some of whom should have known
better. The absurd importance with which
mining on private lands was viewed illustrates
this. One would have thought, if one had
judged by the speeches, that every unemployed
man in the province would get work and pocket-
fuls of gold if only there was a Mining on
Private Lands Act. Such an Act was passed
a poor one, it may be—and then the people who
had been impressively talking of millions of
acres of rich gold-bearing country mysteriously
disappeared.
A Side Issue.
The Green problem is one of the small side
mysteries of the Dean conspiracy case. Daniel
Green, a person of no great importance, was
arrested on a charge of conspiring with Crick
and Meagher to defeat the ends of something
r other. He was arrested again on a charge
of conspiracy in another case, and remanded
persistently for many weeks until at last the
“ Crown ” dropped the proceedings and he was
discharged. He was further arrested on a
charge of brutally assaulting a female witness,
and on this charge also he was remanded on the
application of the “ Crown ” for many weeks
without a hearing. When at last the miser-
able case came on it proved that he had been
arrested on a description so utterly unlike him
that no sane policeman could have mistaken
him for the individual wanted. Even the
arresting constable in his evidence acknowledged
the discrepancy. Further, it transpired that,
at the time the alleged assault was com-
mitted, Green was in a police-court several
miles away answering to another charge, and
therefore it was absolutely certain that he
couldn’t be the person wanted. As the court
Green was attending at the hour of the assault
was the same one where he was afterwards
charged with the said assault, it is impossible
to suppose that the police and the law autho-
rities, and the whole legal machine, or some of
it, were not aware of the position. Therefore,
one or two questions naturally arise : (1) By
whose instructions did the police apply to have
remanded, week after week, a man whom they
must (or ought to) have known to be innocent ?
(2) Was the real criminal busy getting away
during this long and unaccountable delay ?
And (3), seeing that the assaulted woman
and her son swore to Green, despite
his conclusive alibi and the fact that their
previous description didn’t fit him, as the
man who committed the assault, are any further
steps to be taken by the law ? There are a
whole lot of shabby little mysteries hanging on
to the skirts of the Dean case, which all help
to bring Botany Bay law into still more con-
tempt and public mockery.
The Dishonest “Hansard.”
Someone sends along the very excellent sugges-
tion that Hansard should be made a verbatim
instead of a Bowdlerised report of Parlia-
mentary proceedings. The papers (except when
it suits them) do not report Parliamentary
speeches with any semblance of fulness or
accuracy. Hansard purports to give all
speeches, but it gives them in a revised and
improved state, and many politicians whose
utterances are unadulterated drivel are saved
from the destruction they deserve simply
because the official records supply a refined
and glorified version of them, and endow them
with an intelligence that is not their own. If
Hansard told the plain, unadulterated truth—
if it gave in full the bad grammar, the lost
pronouns, the tangled sentences which never
came to any definite end, the “hems,” and
“ haws,” and “ ers,” the relatives which knew
not their own antecedents, the stutterings,
and dodderings, and mumblings, and feeble
repetitions, and hazy parentheses, and errone-
ous quotations, the errors in facts and statistics,
the groans, the bad language, the drivel and
washiness, and everything else that goes to
make up a true record it would not
only be much more interesting, but it
would help to stop much useless eloquence
and to abolish a lot of useless politicians.
There are a good many lengthy speakers who
would give up speaking or else speak a great
deal less if they were reported with merciless
accuracy, and there are a few whom an abso-
lutely accurate system of reporting would shut
out of the Legislature altogether. And, in any
case, Hansard ought to be an accurate record
in the interests of truth alone. The people pay
for the legislators and they should have a chance
to know what kind of legislators they get.
They also pay for the reports, and they should
get the pure article ; not an elaborate adultera-
tion.
P.M.G. Duffy, of Victoria, is raising an honest
penny for the revenue by allowing whisky and
tobacco advts. to be placed on the front of post-
cards. Therefore the Band of Hope and the
Rechabites and the other Cold Tea individuals
announce that their “ principles ” won’t allow
them to use post-cards, and the 1.0.G.T. and the
Y. VV.O.A. and the W.C.T.U. and the rest of
the alphabet are harrying Duffy with deputa-
tions on the subject. Yet these cheap, self-
advertising shams are allowed by their prin-
ciples to use tramcars that are plastered over
with beer and tobacco advts., and to use rail-
ways which have whisky puffs on the walls of
every station, and to read the daily and weekly
papers with drink notifications in almost every
column, and to walk through the streets where
drink advts. are on every hoarding, and to go to
theatres where they find them on the pro-
grammes, and to do many other like wicked-
nesses. So long as the W.C.T.U. can do all
these things without injury to its moral health,
then its statement that it can’t use post-cards
with liquor advts. on them is bumptious
hypocrisy. Moreover, all the liquor advts.
on earth won’t increase the aggregate sale of
the Accursed Thing; the public simply drinks as
much as it wants to or can afford to, anil the only
effect is that it may give up drinking the liquor
that isn’t advertised and take instead to the
one that is. The same rule applies in every
case where the article advertised is already in
universal use ; the object is not to increase the
aggregate trade, but to grab some other man’s
share of the trade already existing. Therefore,
the drink-sellers, by riotous advertising, are
simply struggling to cut each other’s throats,
and any W.C.T.U. with sense enough to come
in out of the wet would be pleased to see them
doing it. Probably, however, the real object
of that chaste, but angular, institution is to
convince itself and the public that it is still
alive ; in other words, it shakes its rusty
bonnet and its bulbous gamp at P.M.G. Duffy
for purely advertising purposes. The children
of light and Cold Tea have a keener eye for
cheap puffs than all the Much-Travelled
Smytiie family put together.
Dear Bulletin,— Melb. Age, a red-hot advo-
cate of the first Vic. State Bank scheme that
offers, says cheerfully : “ The form of manage-
ment suggested is a governor and deputy-
governor, wholly unconnected with other
financial institutions ; and a supervising board
consisting of the Chief Justice, the Speaker of
the Leg. Assembly, the Treasurer, and the
Attorney-General.” The Argus dismally re-
marks, “We have no wish to hurt feelings or
cause pain, but it is necessary, in the public
interest, to ask what a board of Speakers and
Treasurers would have given us in the past.
We should have had a State bank run by Mr.
Munro, Matthew Davies, and Mr. Bent.”
Also, G. D. Carter, Bryan O’Loghlen, and
Justice Madden, the wise acting-Gov. who
signed Patterson and Carter’s order for a com-
pulsory bank holiday, to allay the ’93 panic.
You, dear Bulletin, seem disposed to over-
look the fact that a badly-managed State bank
would prove the worst thing that ever hap-
pened to Victoria. And it would be shockingly
mismanaged. The policies of four successive
Governments in dealing with one or other kind
of financial or commercial dishonesty have
left the country no hope of a respectable
State bank. Public men are what public
opinion makes them, and present public
opinion in Victoria has been corrupted by a
combination of dirty circumstances. It is vain
to argue that public interests can be safeguarded
by rules and regulations, and auditors. Men
run banks, not rules or auditors. If the men
are no good, the rules are practically worthless
and the audit amounts to nothing at all. The
existing lot of Victorian inhabitants will have
to die and be replaced by creatures of a higher
moral tone all round (financially speaking)
before a State Bank scheme will commend itself
to any intelligent resident who hasn’t selfish
designs upon the capital.—B. Liste.”
The saddest thing about every big movement
is its ultimate success. The original Freetrade
agitation in England maintained a big office
and a staff of well-paid secretaries, clerks, lec-
turers, and writers. There was bitter conster-
nation in that office when the programme of
the party became law. No one wants to run
after an omnibus any more when he has caught
it, so the subscriptions stopped, and the clerks,
lecturers, secretaries, and pamphleteers were
“chucked out” miserably into a cold, cold
world. Similarly, when genuine Prohibition
arrives, there will be an end to the billets
of the teetotal-lecturers and secretaries, the
editors of the Cold Tea rags, the politicians
who get in on the teetotal vote, the W.C.T.U.
magnates, and all the rest; they will simply
drop into utter insignificance, because the one
subject they know anything about is finished.
If Freetrade ever becomes the absolutely settled
policy of New South Wales it will kill many
people, because they live solely by running
after that particular omnibus, and when they
have definitely caught it no one will pay them
to run after it any more. If the heathen really
become converted, then the missionary busi-
ness, with its salaries and its perks, is dead.
When woman gets the suffrage, then no one
can become famous by being a woman-suffragist
any more. When the Single-tax comes then
Henry George may as well suicide. For the
person of one fad success is a truly awful thing.
Gov. Brassey must be densely ignorant of
financial facts, if he isn’t poking borak at his
Smellbourne admirers. The other night he
stood up, without a smile on his face, or a
chuckle in his voice, and told the Chamber of
Commerce that the land-boom was a blessing in
disguise, because “it had given the people of
Victoria a chance, nobly used, of proving to
the world that they are resolved, at all sacri-
fices, to meet all engagements—(cheers) —and
maintain their credit.” Flesh and blood
cannot stand by and permit these awful perver-
sions of the truth to be performed by the best
Governor on earth. The Bulletin is not in-
disposed to approve of Gov. Brassey in moder-
ation, as long as he doesn’t play into the hands
of the—er—the wrong ’uns, so to speak.
Whilst the nautical new-chum seven-or-nine-.
times-millionaire confines himself to whole-
sale truth and harmless nonsense, this
paper will never smite him unawares with
a brick. But if, after making due enquiries
concerning the prosperous whitewashed bank-
rupts and bloated private compositioners who
swarmed into his recent levee, through the
main entrance or private door—if, after learn-
ing how many finks in the £ those loyal sub-
jects paid, or didn’t pay when called upon to
meet their engagements, Brassey should still
class the malodorous supporters of vice-royalty
with the decent people of Victoria, then The
Bulletin will rain fire and brimstone upon the
bebaubled time-server.
Old Hori Grey, who, all his life, has loathed
pomp and show and advt., is to have a statue
erected to him at Auckland. The Women’s
Liberal League started the idea, and out of the
.£lOOO required for a cheap and very ordinary
image, it has with great difficulty got together
£lOO. If that statue is put up Grey will never
return to Auckland to see it if he can con-
veniently stay away, and if, for want of funds,
it never goes up at all, the poor old Tribune’s
name will have been dragged around by
the poke-bonnetted brigade to no earthly
purpose. The statue business is a stupid
craze at the best. The average bronze
figger is hideously inartistic and looks
a great deal less picturesque than a gum-tree,
and it costs a lot, and is of no use to anybody.
When the public wants to honor a great man
it should raise the money to buy up a dingy
slum, and convert it into a wide street with
trees on each side and then name it after the
hero of the hour. The statue idea is preferred
princinally because the local Mayor Smith
wants" to do the unveiling ceremony and to
have his ignoble cognomen mentioned on the
pedestal.
As the Australian rabbit can climb trees,
will some expert explain what can be the earthly
use of a wire-netting fence entirely unprotected
and uncrowned by a spiked top-piece?
Ed. Bulletin, —Be the Northern limit of
the platypus. Some three years ago one was
caught alive in the Burdekin, just above Charters
Towers, and 12 months ago one (a youngster) was
shot on the Fletcher, 25 miles north of that town.
This brings the limit up to the 10th parallel. Old
aborigines say they have seen them still further
north in the reedy marshes of the Little Fletcher.
—N.Q.


Equitable
Financial Position,
DECEMBER 31, 1894.
Assets, £38,550,898
Surj)lus 9 £ 7,787,460
Improvement during Year 1891:
Increase in Assets,
£3,330,815
/*
Increase in Surplus,
£1.065.220
Society U.B.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS.
It has more Assurance in Force,
Does a Larger Business,
Holds a Larger Surplus, than
any other Life Office
in the World.
SHAVING MADE
A PLEASURE by Using
Ed
PIBAUD
Shaving
Cream.
The Wild-Cat Column .
m, ,
Ihe Ulbbs Governments temporary Banking
Act has been allowed to exp're, and things in VB. Wales
have gone hack to their old chaotic slut- . The imie-iax
reverts to i he termer 2 per cent., so the Treasury vv ill lose
a certain annul tof revenue. Also, anyone can r.ail him-
self a hank and issue notes, as it was in the go <1 old
times when Ihe paper of Thomas Smit i Riomirds'ui was
on the market- The power l.u declare notes a legal
tender in times of panic has ceas'd to exist. As
paper money is now a first charge on all tlie assets this
f 'revision is not nearly so dangerous as it used to be, and
t is a desperate remedy which sometimes comes in handy
to prevent a much worse thing happening. Also, the
proviso that notes are redeem able in gold at the hanks
head offioe only has lapsed. The Dibits Banking Act was
a temporary exp dient, to he replaced by something
better later on ; it never amounted to very much, hut, at
all events, it supplied some revenue and s *ut down on a
lot of bogus pap-rmoney, and it was rattier better than
nothing Its lapse is another strong reason why Premier
Hi.id should incubate his State Bank scheme with all
possible speed.
• • • •
The Langridge Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melh.) reports a profit (or the year of £3046, has
£4874 to credit in Ihe hank, whereas last year it had an
overdraft of £1778, has paid off £4600 of its"deposits, and
has red *ced its total liabilities by £29,ooo—vvhich is the
sort of thing that is seldom heard of in Melbourne these
times. Also, its total deposits are only £25 000, while the
Shareholders’ cash in the concern is £117.000. During
the year the society sold £13.000 worth of foreclosed pm.
perlies, making a loss on book-values of £2861, ami in
consequence of this the year s profits are cani d forward
to strengthen the reserve for depreciation of securities,
which now stands at £24,775.
* • • •
The full report of the Bank of Australasia looks
no more cheerful than did the cabled summary. The net
profits are £40,854 25., and as Ihe dividend, even at the
reduced rate of 5 per cent,, absorbs £40,000, there are
just £854 2s. to the good. The profits ate nearly 1 2 l.r 00
less than they were only 18 months ago, and tTie div.’has
been gradually declining for a good while past. As the
Australasia is not a reconsti noted instil ution, I ids dt cli ne
is not owing to the long dated 4j per cent, deposit curse,
Also, it is not wholly owing to the large cash reseive
(£3,053.000), for this item was consid rahly heavier six
moiiths ago, when the profits were £5OOO more and Ihe
div. was 6 per cent. The only apparent ■ xplanalion <f so
very great a decline is that the Australasia is becalmed a
little worse than some of its neighbors. The fact, fiat the
profits are 60 p r cent, less than they were five years ngo,
though no financial disaster has overtaken the hank in
the interim, certainly suggests that the calm is pretty bad.
* * * *
One hanking institution, and not a very large one
either, is likely to he struck short ly w ith a lossof something
Irke £lOO,OOO over a second mortgage. If it wi re a fir-t
mortgage it might, simply lake over tire properly ami put
it down on the balance-sheet as a good asset, iutt when
the first mortgagee sells, and just gets enough to ch ar big
Own claim, and the institution’s lien becomes a mere
pipe-light, it will have to write il off, or else lie about it
pretty hard.
• • • •
The recent ri«e in prices lias drawn sudden
attention to ttie grain storage swindl». Mmy f u liters
store th' ir grain with mill-rs and others at a small charge
while waiting a favorable chance to sell. The owner of
the store goes in for Jobbing on the mark'-t with the
■ tored grain, quite regard less of the fact Dial it isn’t his
property. He sells it on his own account when prices
rise a litlle, and huvs more to replace it when th y fall,
and he inav repeat this operation a dozen times in sue-
cession. When the farmer wants Ids grain hack he g- 19
whatever is on hand, which may h ‘a very inferior sample.
Or he may give orders to sell, and the j hher sells (tie
inferior sample on his accaml, and Ihe low price it
fetches is S'C down as an inexplicable conundrum.
Sometimes, at a very tight pinch, it is necessary to eke
out the quantity with swc< pings and miscellaneous nth.
bish. The great rise in prices, however, basin de iimre
serious trouble than usual th's y»ar—especidlj in Vic-
toria. Th“ jobber sold the grain in many cases at the
beginning of the ri-e, and then owing to the further rise
he couldn’t buy it back, so he simply shins up ttie
premises and tells his diets that their properly has
vnnishtd. The miserable fanner, who reckoned that his
Stored grain was a valtt 1 til asset at present prices, is thus
left utterly. Anil yet. so far as the news ,ap r repoi ts
show, not one of Ihe dishonest. ha:l“'s' as h“e,l run in for
larceny, and the swindled agriculturists don’t seem e\eu
to have kicked seriously.
• • • •
Tim Town and Country Land, Building and
Investment Co. (Svdney) successful I v carried through the
usual recon-lruction last week, mil red red its depo it
interest to 2A per cent. The Town and Country is une of
the many little concerns whi h s-em to have little reason
for their existence, except lliar. they prov i'ie salaries for a
few tieople. Its deposits anion* t to a little over 16010,
and its capital is £12.000. and its whole a-sets mo-t y’
land and houses—amount to almnt £30,000. The f
busine-s of the society now is to watch tie in a deal I 1
proiiertv, and the fact that one hoard and office staff
could watch a much larger quantity of unsaleable pro-
perty suggests that aindgamaiion might be desirable.
• • • •
The Grand Coffee Pa'ace (Melbourne), another
while elephant that is vainly applying Dr a liquor license,
reports that the loss for the year is about £4BO. It would
have been much worse hut (or reduction in wages, adv-r-
-tising. gener.l exo uses, wvshing lighting fuel repairs
directors’ fees and interest on mortgage, hot even the
most desperate cheese.paring foil d to make ends meet.
Out of the last 615,000 call over £6OOO hasn’t come in and
isn’t expected till Parkes gets his hair cut short.
r « m 0 * *
*ell.i - 1 1 • •
A Sydney man has a property wluoi, hringstn
a nf»t rental, after allowing for and repairs, of 41*0
a vear. It is morttr «tred for t*Bso, or le.m than one-thinl
its value. Tiie mortirair u fell due the father day, and tlie
owner trot it renewed for five years at 7 per cent - the
lender .didn’t care to fix his arrangements lievond five
years, on account of unc rlainty re the mortgage'-tux—
and the legal pxp' tiscs of the r niewal were €l9. Interest
and legal experts s therefor* amount to ( 7 9s. per c“iit.
per annum. A State Lout Depa'tment could lend the
money on such good security al 5 per c nt. interest and
2 per C“ t. sinking fund, and do well ont of the hnsinis->,
eo that, the interest and the repayment of fie principal
togetber would cost just Me amount which the private
Fiider charget for interest, alone. Despite the gr-at fall
in inter st. there is still abundant room for a Stale Lund
Bank in N.S.W. -
* • • *
Hays a well-known lawyer : “ Most solicitors,
if sndd“tily ca*led upon to account for 20s. in the £’of the
trnstfuii'ls placed m their ca* e, couldn’t doit.” When a hig
firm has twenty or thirty differ nt trusts on hand, it can
rely that, in ordhiary circumstances, the money won’t |, e
all called upon at once, and il. often acts accordingly. In
view of what is h ippening every day, th“ Supreme Courts
will cert, inly have to make a 1 attorneys find substantial
guarantees.
I he situation of the much-abused Melbourne
hat-m .ki' g industry is really -otmlhing like this; That
protected industry charges rather high prices for its
good*, and has a tolerably good time on the proceeds. It
ts denotin -ed as a swindle because imported lints could he
put. on the market at a considerable lower tale if the
importers sold them at the smallest possible profit. When
t te importers had a monopoly, however, they chargtd,
instead, the largest possible pn fit. and imported hats were
a lot dearer than is now the locally-made article. If Hie
ditri were abolished, imported hats would he a lot
Cheaper than Hie local goods while the importers ware
engaged in killing the local industiy. When it was gone
the prices would go up gaily t i something like the old
level. |f another imp elect'd local industry was start'd
they would onine down again until it was also wiped out,
and then they would rise one more. That is Lire whole
rreetrade gospel in a nutshell.
* * • •
Shareholders in lirmidating Melh. Standard
are bucking at Hie calls. W ten the Herald-Standard ji iu
vi'is on, the litter’s chaiimnn, Sam william on—at Hie
lime a Colonial Bank director a d flw tier * f 35,( 00 H efald
shares—in urging the move, said a call - f Is. or Is. 6d. at
most would pr hahly cover the on’s liabilities. Blit he
hadn l reckoned on machinety, which cost ' 40h0, selling
for ) 1500, nor with ch htors refusing to pay up owing lo
the decision Hist in Vic. a limited 00. has no Incus it mdi
as a newspaper-proprietor. Therefore shareholdets are
requested to pay up 3s. 6d., whereat they are cursing
heavily. It, looks as if the reinainii g 3s. 6d. wi 1 also lie
needed, through many shareholders ignoring Ihedemand,
Liquidators are ariaid to sue Hie d linquenis because Hie
law might knock some further holes in t ie co s illegal
constitution.
* * * *
The “cyanide question” menus millions to
Australia, and this appears to lie Hie cyanide qu stiou
in a nutshell. The Cassels Oold-Extr icling Co. holds Ihe
MmArtiiur-Forreat pat* nt for the use of cyanogen in
gold-extraction. The validity of that patent was dis.
pitted, ami a high English coiiit of law dictdid that
it was u sound— i.e.. it was held that the patentees and
th" co. which represents them were not entitled to Ihe
right-, or sme of them, which they claimed. The
patents in force in the Australasian provinc s are more
or less similir lo the B itish patent, and presumably
they are similarly unsound, though in no province, so
fir ns The Bulletin is aware, has the question been
brought itp for final legal decision. But the Maorilnml
Govt , when the Cassels Co. cl dined royal ti s from
Maori land miners using o.ianogen, hacked up the miners
in their refusal to pav, on the ground that the English
decision showed that the co. had no tight to eufotce pay-
ment.
There still remains the Australian mainland.
At. Croydon and elsewhere in Queensland, at Pmnbula
and elsewhere in N.S.W., and in the neighboring pro-
vinces, the cyanide process his been for a greater or I ss
time used in g Id-extraction, ft will unquestionably’ he
used to a much greater extent in the future. If the Cas-
sels Co. can compel Austrafi m miners everywhere to pay
them royalty for the use of cyanogen, it may mean mil-
lions of p umls in the oo.’s pocket. If it cannot, it will
m"an millin' s of pounds saved to the Australian mining
industry. The p dnt is has the co. the power loenfo'ce
pai ment of royalties? u aB it the right? If it has, let it
prove its right at law.
Up to now the co. has taken no steps, as far as
this paper is aware, to mike Hie proof. There have been
vague muneriiigs, wl i-pered allusions to a “fighting
fund reckoned in hundreds of thons.v ds ; luit th re has
been no action at law. ft is hinted, however, that the
co. s friends f dubious of its leva) rights, d sire to improve
nn*t strengti>en ihem. T" that end, it i- said, u-emav tie
made of a Pill qiiieth pushed through N.S.W. Council,
and ||"W li fore N S.VV. Ass mhly. That Bid gives Hie
Minister of .In-nice— m t the Su/i'me Court, mind yon,
hut a mere political pets- n ge in office one day amt out of
othce the n xt d iy—the pow< r to “ amend ” any patent,
old or iu vv. H'Wf irlhe amendment may go is prncli-
(•ally left to the Mi is’er. who is m relv to s**e tl at there
is no “su st nt'al ” (elastic word!) dtflerei.ee between
the old patent and the n w.
Tim principle nf this ant is nnjust. If a man
gets a parent, he should stick to his pat,, nt. If he makes
an error he must at tle by the consequ uices. If Hie
error he o ly trivial; he his 'he courts of law and quh v
at Ins hack, and they w ill give him justice. But it would
he intolerable Hint a patentee s' cntd have rights which
stretch like irnlin ulili. r at the will r-f a po s ide p-dpical
friend. If he vv islies to am nd Ids c'aim, and he Inis the
legal right t> amend it, then he can lake out a fresh
patent for Hie amendment. If he has no rigid lo a fresh
patent, then he lias no right to amend Lite old one.
The Bulletin counsels every democratic M.P.
to vote si aight 'gains' giving to any politician a dis re-
t'on ,which should obviously he v sted in (he Supr* me
Coii't tons and it counsels every d-mocrat to watch the
action of his parliamentary representative.
* * » «
The N.S.W. Patents Law Amendment, Bill is
not believed t" lie solely in H e cv anide-pa4 ntei s’
int' i- «t. The Bill will also give a big lift to the Aslicioft
sulphide people.
• * • *
B IT. South, B IT. North and B.TT. Junction
Noith rein the one “sla'-le;” and it is largely a hig
share-dealers’ “viable.” This accounts for many tilings
mav evert account for Ihe marked m inner in wntch, by
certain papers, one or other of the mines is persistently
kept in lhe forefront. Yesterday Soul hs seemed to lie a
good thing f make money out of ; and so Ihe South was
mentioned almost »very day. To-day. Hie Junction
having made a find, the North, its neighbor, and the
Junction North, whose name is worth a go d deal, are
called upon to go through the same mill. At the same
lime the Junction Norths are surprising ev< n their own
hackers, who never thought that ll'e tilings would go np
so persistently. They ought to have come back long ago.
• * * •
The sulphide-treating developments have led to
ttie reopening of a few old mines, sn phide ami other.
Rumored that ihe Day Dr am will he off red to a new co.
(this, no doubt, owing to the successful n const,!notion of
th’ till-lately rtiscredited North), and the Pinnacles Co.
may also he still once more re-fumed.
* * * •
B.TT. North sulphides continue nt about 40 per
cent, bad and 7oz. silver; Hie ore in the West branch at
the Jit " lion (Hie next mine) gives 40oz. silver—so vari-
able is this stnfl.
* • • *
B.TT. Proprietary is now settling down to
jigging sulphides—a commonplace sort of proctss which
in Us mightier days it despised.
* * • *
In 11 months B.TT. Proprietary share-values
have advanced 35 per cent.; Ihe advatice of other B.U.
stocks has averaged over 600 per cent,
• » » *
B.TT. Junction has hitherto Been handicapped
by having no direct communication wilh the railway to
Ihe se hoard. The line which serves S uth, Cent.ial,
Block 10, the Proprietary, Block 14, and British cannot be
extended to the Junction on account of the very rapid dip
of the country north of the British. A line is now, how-
ever, being sut vejed ns a branch from the Tmr wingi e
line, and ihis will no doubt eventually set ve Ihe N< nhaid
Junction North. The Junction, which up to the other
day was scraping together with infi. He 1"hor 100 tons of
ore a w ek, is now concent rut ing up lo 500 tors, and
dispatching ii|. to 1200 tons crude ore. This change is
rnosl ly due to the find of the western branch at 625 ft.—
which, as expos'd, is Ihe finest, ore body standing at
Broken Hill at present. From a miner’s point nf vi* w its
only draw hack is its ext' fme friahil tv ; it akes no yetting
out at all. But it does take a bean nf limber.
• * • •
Thu AuhT ialian Times (Sydney daily news-
paper) project came to a full slop because (so goes Ihe
story) one provisional director, who was to take no -mall
share in la.ving the cash f* n idation, w ain d to < xdude
sporting and theatrical news, aid run the paper on
strictly Y.M.C.A. lines. A daily thus run would he pie-
damned. Australia! s, especially Y.M.C. A. Australians,
can’t live without their race-lips and leg-ecstntics.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek last crushing, 575 tons
for 6190 a. gold. This mine is now getting seine good gold
at, the north end of its ground, in a small vein, which
m s dlag"nally from the hig reef to the little one. When
are the shareholders going to officially lean. that, in Ihe
lower leve'S, consi.l rahle part of the famous rich sliOOt
has ulieadv gone into Hie adjoining mine?
* ♦ * •
C'Jiar vvire to Sydney D.T. : “ Cood stone has
been found in th" Londonderry mine, D'.vsdale, esHm ted
lo go 3oz. to the ton, and to. o lain 30 per cent, silver.”
30 p r cent, of silver s about 12.000 z. to the ton, which
should pay, despite the low price of s.lver, if there is a
big body of ore.
» * • »
MitnheTs Creek freehold ; Total crushed,
28.900 tons, yielding 22 53 10 g. gold ; average, 15Jwt.
14grs. per ton. Value. 483,7X6. What profit ?
• * • *
Tim tri'uitors working the Cohar copper-mine
have raised the wages of their «mpl«y6s 7J percent., in
accordance with the promise made Same time ago to do
this if copper advanced.
* * * *
Xmas Clift, Wyalong, N.S.W. Total stone
crushed to dale, 500 tons for 1400-. Z. gold. Stated that
stone which, by amalgamation, only returned per
lon, gave over 7oz. hv chlorination. Bolt’s claim, anoth* r
\Vi along show, 193 tons for 580 oz. How the owners must
wish their mines at Coolgardie !
• • • •
A correspondent writing from Kimberley,
W.A.. says tl at the field is d- seit'd for want cf capital.
The population now consists of about 200 souls, tnohtdt ig
dry-blowers and r efers. Kimberley had all Ihe capital
it deserved, some y ars ago. If it wan's another boom,
it should change its tame and otheiwise attempt to
conceal its disastrous history,
• • * •
On dit Unit the fare to Manly from Sydney will
shnrtlv lie a penny return. When that point is reached
the rival companies will probably begin ing people to
go down.
• • * •
Civic anomalies among communities of prac-
tically Ok" interests; Mayor of Sidney receives £lOOO a
year; Mayor of Redfern, '200; Mayor of Ashfield, after
a vigorous whipping-up of a referendum-vote—nothing.
I ' the first two cases the allowance was fixed by the
aldermen ; in the last the verdict was given by the rate-
p.yers.
• • • •
When one of the policies on a Sydneyite (whose
life is now insured for about, 1 loO.oOO) matured the
other day it was worth 119,000 cash, and, as he did not
want the mon.'v, the company gave him in exchange fur
it a paid-up policy (or £29,000 payable at d.ath.
**’ * *
The Falkner mine, Pamhula. N.S.W,. “has
taken out, with civ about f ur men, during the last
seven months, 412,000 worth of gold in first and second
qualiti ore, besid s hundreds of tons slacked at the mine,
estimated to go from one to three ounces to the ton.’’
« * • «
The Tllawarra (N.S.W.) Harbor and Railway
Co., capital 1600 01)0, has just h'>eu registered in London.
More “influx of British capital.”
* • • •
Re a Bulletin paragraph of lOth Nov. The
owners of th Walter Sett mine(Cangi, N.S.W. tare evi-
denllv full of faith in their show, w hi'h, tiny write,
would have In en bought hv Mr. H. C. Callahan, the well-
known mining exami er, had an agreement been come to
in lh“ nn Her of priee. They aver that a fair sample
tak'n by Mr. Callahan from the full width of the lode
(sft.) averag'd l«z. 16 Ivvt. 12grs. on a say at N.S.W.
Min. s Department. T e owners have now foimed Hi* m-
-B",lves into a ltd. liability co. of 40.000 shares, and
encaged as mating'r Mr. W. H. Williams, of Charters
Towers, on the special re'-omim ndatioo if Messrs. Plant
and Alan Blight. They bate always spent their own
money on the mine, and, «o far, have lost, l.nl now expect
to he rewarded by the results of scientifically-conducted
operations.
• • * ♦
A well-known Victorian mining examiner writes
to The Bulietin from Coolgardie“ We are having a
bad attack of boom-fi-ver, and in London Ihe temperature
must he over 100. It, must rage itself out. Men of
ability and exp rience lose their heads when they arrive
tiere i.f., M.E’s. of more or bss position, a lot, of them
very much less. The newspaper gentlemen are all in Hie
same boat. It is contagious to he sanguine, and this
place is peopl. d wilh ‘ sanguinary ’ men. London, Paris,
B rim, Brussels, and Glasgow are ripe for a gamble, and
they won’t he happy till they get it. She« p-hreedera,
quarter-deck hands, brokers, hankers, pn ssmen, &c..&c.,
are in Lend m from W.A., writing r* ports in winch Huy
speak glibly, and figure out the millions sterling in the
gold-mi- es her reckless lies piled tip like mountain
heights in the oh uds. Of course, a day of reckoning will
come, when this field will suffer a hitter relapse. These
men value not, their names, or what hecotm s of this
country after they have made their fortunes by decep-
tion. Gold is here and some rich mines exist—they are
certainly much scattered at pres nt- hut the reif lines
and hells will be extended in t me. The goldfield itself is
n"t responsible for all this insanity, hut at Hus ‘wild oat ’
rale it will be killed, and it can only look on at its
destruction without the power to slay the hands of the
murderers.”
Julius Pi ice, who has been tr.ive’ling over
W.A. goldfields for the iLLUSTRATEn LONDON News, walks
into the Forrest G< vl. for its treatment of Coolgardie.
“The co dition of Hannan's, owing mainly to Ihe neglect
of [he Govt,, is simply disgraceful. It is most .extra-
ordinary to me that the mining community should have
to beg for a few hundreds of exp nditure to supply (hem
wilh water to think when the inenase in the revenue
sioc ■ the discovery of gold has b> en over three-quarters
of a million. All the miners ask is that a small part of
the money they pay to the Treasury should be expended
upon their necessities. I believe it would have hen more
creditable to the Govt, if they postponed the idea of
having an observatory f >r a I hue, and devot d (he money
to ihe people who had to Hi d it. It would he far better
to 1.1 th" proposal for a mi. t wait until tie
goldfields had water. For 50 years the Supr. me
Court buildings have been sufficiently Missive for
the business, and the large amount set aside for the new
building could he spent with greater advantage to the
country if it went in the direction of giving water to the
goldfields. I consider a lot of these hig ideas should he
postponed in Ihe face of the pressing needs of ihe mining
population. Look what the money proposed to he devoted
to the improvement of Govt. House would do in Hie way
of a wa'er-supplv. The Govt, must hear in mind that, all
these schemes for Hie aggrandisement of the capital
although proper under other circumstances, are cot
reasonable or honest, when ihe districts cont'ihuting Ihe
funds are starved in order to secure a little outside veneer
in Perth.”
• * • •
In sheer pity a Coolgardie paper has given the
poor old Plii'deVdery a lin ■, and the old S.M. Herald
has followed suit. “Tim t O idondi rrv mi eis 10. king
toe'l. Although ad the g< Id w»n from the fa nou- gold* u
hole has lone; since been taken away, the mine Can still
moie than hold its own with any in the country for rich
atone. The safe in the manager's otfioe la a veritable
Jeweller’s ahoj>, being simply packed with Slone, in which
Ihe g<M allows so freely that it is difficult to tell which
there is most of—gold or stone. The floor of theadjcln-
inir ipom is also strewn with specimens.” Tub Bulletin
heard last week that it had crushed 70 tons for something
like 12(J0<>z. ir- id. if so, no donht the manager's safe has
been unpack'd, a> d the adjoining ro< no is no longer
strewn with specimens. It is a palch-or-uotbiug mine-
worse lu. k !
• • • •
Croat Bimirier—fortnight's crushing— 251 tons
for 1u690z. Like the shares, the yields are falling. It
is i Iso said that the lode, though rich, is smaller in the
bottom.
* • * *
W.A. output for Ont., 27.7250 z. Valtlej
£105,357,, How much distributed in divs. ?
* * * *
Cashman’s I’tilliant Reward Gold-Alining do.,
C'olea'die, in liquidation, has been Iregisifend undet*
the new name of the “Ethel Hope." The arnngelnents,
says Coolgardie PIONEER, aie timt eVery 41 shkre in
the old co. is to count as ss. in Ihe new, proi ided ihia
shareholders are pn pared to accept a further liability of
Is. 6d. a share. Poor Hull!
• * » •
Murchison mark'-t quotation for “mining ex-
P'rts’" scalps, 41 per 1000. Members of geological
societies, with more than 35 letters, 10s. per 1000 extra.
• • * •
Coolgardie railway-traffic turns in about .£3500
weekly to the contractors. The Manriland co. stands to
make a fit. haul out of this line before it is hand'd
over i" S pi. next. By that time the cream may have
been skimmed oil the traffic.
• • • *
Fraser South, Southern Cross, has returned
£6oiio in divs for the 47500 subscribed. Last half, £2OOO
distributed, leaving £2579 10s. 7d. in hand. N"l profit for
term, 1 1897 Bs. 91. Crushed 5308 tons for 2Slioz. 7dwt.
6gr. Value of stone 41 12->. 7d. per ton ; treating cost 4T
ss. sd. ; p'ofii, 7s. id. Tae to. is trying to sell the
property to J. Bull.
* • • •
A London chairman : “Now, the water question
i« always cropping up at these West Australian meetii gs,
hut I can assure you that all you have got to do is to
leave the water question in W.A. to British enter-
prise and British brains, and it will come all right ill the
end.” Praise Bull from whom all wattrs flow.
• • • *
The Hampden Plains syndicate seems to have
struck with the drill someth! g better than gold—in the
shape of “a supply of water at 187 ft. seven miles from
Coolgardie.” One day 57,800ga1. wi re pumped out, with-
out reducing the volume of water. “The co. will {mine.
diately start condensing on r big scale, and will lay down
pipes and deliver the water in Cooßaidie.”
• • • •
Three hotels were opened on one day during the
first week in Oct. at Dundas (W. AA Champagne ruled
at £l2 10s. the half-doz., and bread Is. per lilt). loaf.
• * * •
From Hue comes a wire that the field is fast in-
spiring confidence in the London market,a recent ciushing
having done much towards this n suit. Why the L ndon
market? Good mines always make a good market nearer
home. One crushing will never make a market any-
where.
• * • *
A mining hootn is the a«sayer’s opportunity.
“ How do you manage to gel through so many fire-assays
every dav?" asked one man of an assayer recently.
“ Well, it is easy when you know how. 1 fire a great
numb r of them out of the widow and then fill up the
certificates. They are all ‘ fire assays.’*’
• • • •
The dauntless Eisenstadter, whose name was
once a household word in every Australian mining region
as a goldfields pioneer, is dead at last. In his day he
erected more stamper batteries than any other man. He
was the first to put up a mill (in the early Fifties) on
Forest. Creek. In ’6l lie erect* d mills at Woods Point—
the greater part of Ihe machinery being packed on horse-
back in sections, and the heavier portions conveyed in
sledces over savage anil roadless ranges. From the
Morning Star claim at the Point he drew in dividends
14,0000 z. gold. Pushing on, he set up mills at Raspberry
Creek m the same distiict. and at Alexandria ; in’67 he
was at Upp- r Bendoc, where lie er'Cted the Phoenix 10-
head. Or-nf II was his next seal of operations; then
Junee reefs, a;, noth of wh'oh places he erected extensive
works. Hid End and Tamharoora, where he invested
largely in machinery, next caught his attention; then
Fagan’s Creek and Little River (Braidwood district),
where he erect'd ha I t'ri' s, pumping and winding gear in
’Bl. At Quaripot Creek, near Slanthorpe iQ.). he had
three engines at woik on stream tin, and rea'is* d a large
amount from same; at Tulgin and Windiyer he also
erected large plains; also at Charters Tow. rs (’75), and
still later near Rockhampton. Many a min* r has cause
to remember grab fully the name of the gallant old
Eisenstadl' r.
• • • •
The Charters Towers Oct. divs. are above the
average ; Hit to the gold.yield. Day Dawn Bh ck and
Wyndham, with its £12,600 div., m ikes a welcome reap-
pearance on the list, and has, it is thought, says Height's
Circular, come I here to stay. Oct. div., 30,577 4s. 6d.,
making a ten months’ total of 4212,101. Ttie calls for
the month, '8710; for the ten months, 473,097; leaving
an excess of divs. over calls of 4139,004. This total is
£25,000 short of what it would he if the Brilliant Block
were not electing a tramway and mill out of profits, and
other big mines d ing “dead work.” o*l. crushings,
22 200 ions for 21,5260 z. Mills’ United is low on the
list (1542 tons for 13150 z.), and it speaks well for the field
that such a big producer can decline in its return 60 per
cent, and si ill h ave the annual output unaffected —for
the ’96 yield is the record to dale. Day Dawn Block and
Wyndham and New Brilliant Extended, it is hoped, will
fill the Mills* United gap until that mine once more enters
the list as a large producer. The Brilliant line is doing
magnificently ; and two mines giving great signs of pro-
gress now are t he Queen Cross and Victoria and Queen.
Brilliant and St. G orge looks belter than ever; it seems
certain the mine w ill long head Hie div. list. Oct. yield,
1345 tons for 29530 z. ; a Is. div. (equal to 47200).' The
Brilliant faces are looking veiy well. This mine, sitiee its
opening, has crushed 142,394 tons for 184,023 z.. and paid
4286,083 in divs,. and slid there are .veais of profitable
wo k ahead. If the parent mine can do this, those lusty
child, en, the Brilliai I Block and Brilliant and St. George',
should do as well, not to speak of the grand-children in
the d- ep ground, the New Brilliant Extended and Brilliant
Extend'd Block. The Brilliant Coiisnlidat d G.M. Co.
Ltd., adjoining the Brilli nl Extend'd, is being formed,
a> d proposes 10 spend 30,000 in si' king a shaft and pro-
viding machinery. The Brilliant Oct. return was 2099
tons for 25900 Z., and a div. of 3d. and a bonus of 3d. ( qual
to 46 00 was declared. K llv’s Qu en. 809 tons, 1116 oz.
Brilliant Block, 3067 tons for 24150 z. Usual divid-ud of
£2500.
* * * •
At Croydon, Q., over 8000 cons at grass await-
ing water.
* * * •
.£13,700 paid in divs. for October from mines on
the Brilliant reef, C. Towers.
• * • *
So severely has Central Queensland been suffer
ing from drought, that there has been serious talk i
olosi .g (amongst''(.her tilings) the Mt. Morgan mine and
t.ie Lake’s Creek (Rockhampton) meat-pn set ving work .
♦ * ♦ »
Most nf the Melh. real-estate auctioneers ti"w
forage f t a living among the furniture-dealers, their o. i
occupation being as extinct as the mua.
(“ Wild Cat ” continued dn page 12.)
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
It has long been known to scientists that for
improving the appearance and beautifying the
face oatmeal is far and away superior to all other
foods, but it had one drawback*- the tendency to
heat tiie blood. To overcome this defect the at-
tention of eminent scientists has been devoted to
the removal of this imperfection ; and now, after
long years of careful and diligent research, art has
triumphed, and Uncle Toby’s Rolled Oats is the
result, for, by skilful manipulation in the manu-
facture. all tile heating properties have been ex-
tracted, so that now a beautiful complexion of
peach and ivory mav be had by anyone who m d.
a continuous use of Uncle Toby’s Rolled Oats.


CRAWFORD'S SSfSI#
POSSESSES THAT DEUCATE
AROMA & DELICIOUS MELIOW
TASTE THAT MATURING /OR
12 YEARS IN SHJERRY CASKS
ALONE CAN IMPART
CELLULAR UNDERCLOTH ING
AND CORSETS
FOR
COMFORT & HEALTH
During Hot Weather.
Corsets ... ... ... A/6 to 21/-
Riding or Cycling Corsets, 10/6
Clietnisse, Drawers and Hosiery.
Detailed Price-List and Pamphlet post free.
CELLULAR CLOTHING DEPOT,
305 and 307 George Street, Sydney.
7). Braham Co., Sole Agents for N.S. W.
TO DYSPEPTICS
Wc do not pul our Name to Bash or Foolish
Statements.
We assert that Graiimna Porridge Meal will
prevent or cure all forms of indigestion in persons
with whom there is nothing organically wrong,
and who will obey the simple laws of health.
Ask your Grocer for a 41b. packet, ami if he
will not supply it, write to ns, and we will cause
it to be sent to you from the grocer nearest to you
who keeps it.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
DEAN’S PLACE, SYDNEY,
WHOLKBAI.B AGENTS.
George Clark and wife, of Southport (Q.),
havo j ust accomplished a voyage along the Bar-
won, Darling, and Murray rivers to Goolwa
(S.A.) in a KJft. skiff. The distance was 2574
miles, and the trip took eight months.
The Gounod ih attempted-poisoning sensa-
tion has wound no by tne girl, .Ethel Wright,
confessing that her grand-uncle, JSohle Glass’
was perfect y innocent of compile ty in the affair.
The old man has been discharged from custody,
and charitably says he forgives Wright—who is
probably mad.
One night when the Austral with Gov.
Hampden on board was wallowing heavily in the
Great Australian Bight the vice regal daughters
took alarm, ami came in a parti ally-dressed state
to their father’s cabin. There they hung on in
terror to the door-handle and called out wildly :
“ Gome out, pa ; pa, we’re sinking!” Whereupon
Gov. Hampden emerged, a stately and profoundly
calm figure in pyjamas, and called loudly for the
steward. That functionary presently turned up.
“Steward,”said the great man in a serious tone ;
“Isay, steward, are you quite sure this —ah—
vessel is—ah—propahly packed ?”
* » . *
The Bicycle Boom,
Sydney is now fairly in the midst of the bicycle
boom that started in Adelaide with the advent of
Zimmerman, and is likely to keep the people of
the different colonies in a state ot excitement for
some months. These colonies have experienced
the result of several booms of late years, but with
disastrous results, as the folk from the Cabbage
Garden well know. The greatest of all booms
that Australia has seen is the rush for the B.L.
Corto Rothschild Cigars, which are a delightful
smoke and obtainable from all first-class tobac-
conists at fid. each. The sales of these cigars are
tremendous; during Cup week in Melbourne they
amounted to 1,000,000, and this is not to be
wondered at considering the quality of the smokes
and the tobacco employed being grown in the
finest Havanas district.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS Poll COMING WRRtC.
Lyceum “ One of Our Girls.”
Her Majesty’s “ Robbery Under Arms"
Tivoli Rickards' Variety (Jo.
Sydney Music Hall Variety Go.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Theatre “Yeoman of the Guard.”
Theatre Royal “Youth.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Exhibition Building Oriental Carnival.
Arthur Dacre, the well-known English
actor, suicided with a razor last Sunday, in a
Macquarie-street (Sydney) boarding-house, after
killing his wife with a revolver. The Dacres
(he was about 45, and she hardly 41) were
both fine artistes in their own particular line
of high-class comedy. Their terrible end was
surrounded by so many pathetic circumstances
and the pair were so much esteemed by all who
made their acquaintance that it can safely be said
that no occurrence of the sort which has taken
place in Australia within the memory of the pre-
sent generation has so widely and deeply stirred
public sympathy. In sordid business matters
they were luckless and incompetent, and the last
year or two of their lives was a long series of
financial misfortunes. Their last engagement was
with the “Land of the Moa ” co. at Sydney
Royal, and this descent into melodrama as a last
resource—when it became evident that there was
no present market for high-class comedy in Aus-
tralia — preyed on Dacre’s mind. He was
also harassed by previous disappointments,
by the illness of Ins wife for whom be
entertained an intense and chivalrous affec-
tion, and by fears for their joint future, and a
hopeless, half-crazed sense that their career was
practically closed. Few men were ever less able
to face serious trouble, and, in his last days, poor
Dacre was wont to pour out his griefs to almost
everybody he met. The sombre; tragic character
of Dean Maitland, which lie was studying for the
next Royal drama, did not serve as a tome to bis
shattered nerves, so on the Sunday he laid down
his long-drawn-out unfinished part and ended Ids
wife’s troubles and Ids own together. She was
found dead on the bed with a handkerchief over
her eyes, where she had perhaps placed it so that
she might not see what was coming; while her
husband, with his carotid artery severed, was just
about expiring. His last words were a pathetic
request to he lifted on to the bed and laid beside
her. So far as all the signs go, it was a case of
death by mutual consent.
• * *
Dacre’s medical training made the tragedy
sudden and painless. He shot his wife through
the heart, and he severed his own carotid artery in-
stead of wounding his throat in the clumsy manner
of most would-be suicides. The romantic affection
which subsisted between him and his wife is ex-
pressed in the epitaph lie desired should be inscribed
on their tombstone, “They loved each other,
and in their death they were not divided.” Which
one, among his accumulated troubles and disap-
pointments, it was that really killed Dacre no one
probably will ever know for certain, but Ids refined
and sensitive nature made him worry himself to
distraction over small obligations, and “Dean
Maitland ” attacking his over-wrought brain pro-
bably had something to do with the terrible finale.
** * *
The Lyceum management has wisely taken
down its weak-kneed American drama, and puts
up a comedy in its stead. The writer of “ One of
Our Girls” had something to say, and had fortu-
nately not got it so tightly jammed in his mind
that lie couldn’t get it out, and he says it brightly
and intell gently. The play is a bitter satire on
the French upper-class marriage system, as
■evidenced in the case of Miss Grace Noble, whose
aristocratic parents hand her over to a bad,
'blotched Count, whom she had only seen once
'before in her life, and, as the gas wasn't lighted
■on that occasion, she only saw his shadow against
'the dusk even then. They are married, and the
blotched Count looms wickedly around through
■three acts and scrowls heavilyon his pansy-blossom.
Miss Helen Danvray, as an American niece, per-
vades the play by way of contrast, and shows the
.American view of matrimony, and leads a bnll-in-
a-china-shop existence in the elevated French
'family, and serves as a haven of refuge for the
■crushed little Countess when her blotched noble-
itnan is a worse nightmare than usual. The latter
■gentleman’s career is cut short by the discovery
that he has dropped his first wife into his second
father-in-law’s supply of drinking-water, and when
the curtain falls he is understood to lie scowling
liri bed with a bullet in his chest and the eye of
the law upon him. He is described throughout
■as a person of very old family, and his doings
■suggest that the family is altogether too old and
ihas gone bad.
# • •
There are only three notable parts in “ One
■of Our Girls.” Miss Helen Dauvray, as the
American girl, has one of them, and her bright-
mess and dash make it the best half of the drama.
The scowling Count is another character who has
;a good deal of meat in him. King Hedley plays
Ihim impressively with a wicked smile and a quan-
tity of damp black hair, but lie speaks in a muffled,
underhand tone, and cultivates a motionless frame
■of mind which is overdone at times. Alias Grace
Noble is a pretty piece of fluffiness and emotion as
the French wife, and the rest are mostly a maze
■of little characters. Flton is wasted as a
small, cynical doctor ; Granville Blake and
Scott Inalis are two good young men, who
are not allowed to say anything very amus-
ing ; C. Berkeley is a new and elaborate idiot, and
Miss Nelly Mortyne does some good w<>rk as a
shocked French parent who is always falling back
against something. The count s first wife doesn t
appear ; all that is heard of her is a shriek in the
back premises as she falls into the well. Ihe
shrieks that come from the back premises, if they
are properly applied, help out the realism con-
siderably, anil few people consider that the cause
of them is generally a super who is sitting on a
packing-case among the wings, possibly with a
pot of refreshment in his hand, and screaming
wildly for help in between times.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s, Dumpier still sticks up
the stage-coach niglitly. and removes large quan-
tities of loot from Cobb and Co.’s ancient vehicle,
and he will continue to do so until further notice.
“His Natural Life” will probably be the next
production, but the date of its appearanoe is still
uncertain.
** * *
Miss Alice Leamar, one of the brightest
stars of a bygone Gaiety Co., is to appear at
Sydney Tivoli on Saturday, and if the fickle
chappiedom which gave its heart to her a year or
two ago hasn’t since been all sent out to the back-
blocks on a Labor Bureau ticket, or gone forest-
thinning for rations, she should be worth her
weight in gold to the management. And Alice’s
weight, if The Bulletin remembers aright, is
something considerable.
** * *
Sydney Royal has been closed for this
week, as the result of the Dacre tragedy, but
“ The Silence of Dean Maitland ” will be staged
next Saturday.
#* * *
Miss Amy Goiirlay and Brother William
are to be added to the bill at Sydney Music Hall
on Saturday. Otherwise the bill is in its usual
State of health.
** * *
Antoinella Trebelli, a soprano of high
repute, will be the next vocal star in these parts.
She comes to Australia on the advice of Santley,
of whose last English eo. she was one of the prin-
cipal attractions, and is reported to he still “quite
young,” which is cheering, as most of the European
musical stars who reach these shores are feanully
and wonderfully old.
* sit * *
Sydney fashionables are till agog over the
production by locil society amateurs of a new
comic operetta, entitled “Club Life,’’ music by
Ernest Truman (a Sydney “boy”), and libretto
by “ The Banjo.” The tenor and soprano parts
are taken by professionals, but all the rest of the
singers (including a chorus of 15 beautiful society
damsels), are amateurs. The dresses are very
stri <ing, and if the amateurs don’t make too much
of a hash of it this new departure for Australian
talent should be a success.
** » »
“The Gondoliers,” with a new tenor,
trained in the Gilbertian school of comic-opera, to
play a name-part, was Saturday’s hill at Melbourne
Princess’s. Courtice Pounds, the stranger in
question, is a plump and pleasing songster, and a
comedian of much more than the average tenor’s
ability. He has a large, round head, a serio-comic
smile, and his speaking method, although effemiu-
ately gushing, adapts itself to humorous expres-
sion. Also, lie dances with a light fantastic toe,
like all plump men who have learned to dance at
all. Ouurtioe Pounds, in short, is somewhat of a
rarity, a tenor-buffo if necessary, who .could act
the barber in “Madame Angot ” and do justice
to the charming air (usually omitted) which ought
to be incidental to that character. He doesn't
quite equal Charles “Take a pair of
sparkling eyes,” but be is the best of several
Marcos who have tried to interpret that
descriptive ditty on the opera stage hereabouts.
The new tenor’s first appearance was a promising
success. Miss Graupner and Miss Ida Osborne
popped up again in tbeir original places as the
gondoliers’ wives. 'Jibe smaller of these two little
ladies has lost a top note in the meantime, nor
does Miss Osborne give out the musical text as
sonorously as she did, but, in other matters of
detail, they are wiser and happier than formerly.
Yet, how small they are ! Miss Candida Florence
Young towers above them when all ‘three stand
together in a row. And Florence would have had
to tilt her chin to ta’k to several of the dear
C- ee now departed. This is drifting into
irrelevance, however. Wallace Brownlow doesn’t
glitter as the baritone gondolier, but the other
principals are old fiiettds on their best behavior,
and the opera has not relaxed its grip of public
favor. Indeed, some of the author’s jokes are
now being jfenerally understood for the first time.
“ The Yeoman of the Guard ” is announced
for Saturday (23rd), and a modern French opera,
“La Belle Therese,” will follow at the earliest
possible date.
«- * * «
“ Youth ” seems likely to run into a third
week at the Royal. For practical business pur-
poses, “Youth” returns as a novelty to Melbourne
after an 11 years’ absence. Besides, it is a sane and
intelligent production with bits of character, and
touches of eternal truth, and a really comic Irish-
man in it. The elderly clergyman, who claims
credit for having once upon a time cheerfully
abandoned his lady friend at duty’s call, and
therefore begs his son to repent and do likewise,
is a fine type of Christianity. Also, the trouble
that overtakes George Rignold when he
marries an improper person, instead of leaving
her in the lurch, serves to remind all similar
offenders that their sin will surely find them
out. “Youth” is a rather neatly - written
lesson in worldly prudence and the necessity of
looking after Number One. The two acts devoted
to military glory have no apparent connection
with the drama’s moral principles, but they get
there all the same. The embarking of the troops,
and the subsequent destruction of sundry untu-
tored t-avages by Rignold and his brave com-
panions, are incidents not easily forgotten, on
account of the brass music and prevailing tumult.
“ Youth,” l>y the wav, lias been brought right up
to date. A young lady of doubtful character is
asked why she didn't come to a social gathering
on her hike, and she says that she left the bike at
home, because the other girls get so dreadfully
jealous when she sports her “ ratiouals.
m* * *
John Coleman, from Sydney, is to join
Rickards’ Co. at Melb. Opera House on Saturday
next. Meanwhile Slade Murray intends to close
a long-drawn out career in Australia with a fare-
well benefit, so p atrons of the Opera House are
much excited just at present.
** * *
Signora Majeroni, whose name is endeared
to alfgood M luourne playgoers, will be given a
matinee benefit at the Princess’s on Dec. 4. The
support of all the leading people in the profession
goes without saying, and a show worthy of the
occasion is being selected from a mass of avail-
able material. Further particulars in our next.
At Poverty Point .
IV is only the very dull pers"in who can’t at least faintly
realis- whir, impelled Arthur D icre to kill his wife a d
himself. Im vgine a proud and s -mitive man'who adored
his wife and thought, her hardly second to any living
artiste, and who had brought her to Australia to repair
their fortunes in the land of g"ld, finding himself com-
pelled to aco-pt with her whooping parts with a lot of
yelling Maoris !
When one considers the lot of the mummer who has
grown old and poor and omlived the public appreciation,
no one can say for certain that it isu l more sane in s un-
Photo. by Talma, Melbourne .
Photo. by Hills & Saunders, London.
THE THEATRIOAL TRAGEDY AT SYDNEY: The late Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Dacre (Amy Roselle).
cases tn hand in an eternal resignation at the age of 40.
L.f« is an unnatural state an.v how ; most people are (tend
and have been so most of the lime, and the few
people who are really alive are kept in that stale
with difficulty. When the coroner’s jury realises I his
it will probably confine its inquest to the living, and
return a verdict that they remained alive while in a state
of temporary insanity.
If Amy Roselle Daore wasn’t a Jewess, she much belied
her looks. She was unhappily not seen at anything like
he best in Australia. Her best days had probably pa-sed,
but in England a few years ago she occupied a very high
position in the drama—was good enough, for instance, to
appear with the greatest acceptance in foremost parts on
the stage of the very theatre at which Ellen Terry was
queen. Her husband, Arthur Daore (real name, Arthur
Culver James), was a legally-qualified physician. When
complaining to a Sydney friend some weeks ago of his
misfortunes in Australia, lie was asked whether lie had
ever thought of resuming practice as a doctor. “No,”
he said, rather aadly, “1 have forgotten tno much, and
there is so much I have neglected to learn. Besides, I
am afraid I have lost my nerve.”
“Take my last words as advice: Be anything—a
hnic i r, baker, or a ca id I istich-m iker—but get work at
anything else tnan as an actor. 1 have told you, over a
pleasant pipe or two, of my wife s life and her plucky,
noble career. You see the end. We are broken-hearted.
God bless } ou, my boy. Do the best you can.”— Arthur
Dacke.
H. R. Roberts refused to take np the part of Dean
Maitland left open by Arthur Dacre’s suicide. It is
already branded as a luckless part with blood on it and
sudden deal ti attached. The curse of Dean is on it, even
though the Dean's name may he Mail land. Dacre’s old
part as the Yankee captain in “The band of the Mon,”
ami that of Kura, the Maori girl, will also he viewed with
suspicion. The pro. hasn’t much to live for nowadays, but
be lias fears about, a hereafter w here lie will play melo-
dramas for ever and ever to an audience of one deadhead,
and always miss bis cue.
Mark Twain is b ing conducted through Maoriland by
Carlyle Sin,\ the. Carlyle’s Most-Travelled parent intended
going in person, hut he was seized by the strong arm ol
the law and put in quarantine under a suspicion of small-
pox or sonieihing. Mark will give six farewell lectures
in Australia —two each in Sydney, Melbourne, and Ade-
laide—before h aving for India.
Connie- Pounds, Williamson and Musgrove’s new tenor,
is printed in Melli. papers a smug-looking, prim youth of
17, with tlie trices of m unmy's fingers in Ids tiair. In
the flenh, he h a well lin'd pro., looking quite his
a ..e. whatever ii mtj be. Tlc re is a danger of Australian
galleries calling him Poultice P.minis.
O.i Mie conclusion of the seventh tableau in “ Youth,”
at, Melh. lio.val, O. lUguold, ii r spouse In the appl -use,
enthusiastic or otherwise, drags hints- If from the blood-
stained i all 1 •field, ragged, powder-st<i ll • <l. gory, mid
war-worn, and st Hiding b- f nv I lit* <-n tain for a mom id,
a In roin figure, suddenly lifts the Union Jack high above
his head, and with a nohle defiance stamped upon his
in- iw brandishes it in the I eel hof the invisible foe. Tmi
lie staggers off, pah-, and enfeebled by many wounds, but
unoonqu r d. It is a truly touching spectacle, and one
cannot help feeling for the moment lliatG orge has reallv
just stepped out of the Soudan after doing som thing of
vast importance to t ie British Empire on whioh the sun
never sels, doutcherknow.
There used to be money in the circus business. Dan
Fitzgerald relates that be once made iICOO in a week at
Broken Hill.
Tenor Taplev, who lias done good and varied service in
the conic opera c i. since May, 9J, ceased warbling, both
in Sydney and Melh., without so much as an announce-
ment to that effect in “the linn's” ads. In view of the
fuss made over the beauteous Ky ley's farewell appoar-
anoes it would be inleres lug to know the nature of the
“ gentlemanly tenor’s” quarrel with J.U.W., and why so
deserving a plajer should be allowed to pass hence un-
noticed.
Ethel Ilavdon now plays leading r6le in “The Shop
Girl.” Says a London paper of her: " Miss Hayden is a
sprightly and prepossessing singer and • scuhrette.’ If
she will only c as; looking to the wings with her hand
over her eyes between the verses of her songs—an action
which is the copy.righted property of the music-hall
lady ‘ serio-comicthere will be no fault to find with
her.”
Melba’s fee for warbling at afternoon “at homes ” is
200 guineas. She gels £12,000 down for 4.0 concerts in
’Murka, and a share in the profits above a certain amount.
No wonder she can’t come to Australia “at present.”
X.Z. : “ Hypnotist Kennedy has at least three excellent
acrobats in Ins troupe of subjects. One, the game-legged
young man who does the catalepsy business, is especially
good, but tbal act has two faults. In a true cataleptic,
the limbs and body remain rigid in the positions liny
were in at the outset, and, though a leg or arm can be
s lifted to a different angle, it moves as a rigid whole; but
ju -t before Kennedy sits astride the alleg. d cataleptic, lie
bends the body and legs into the best po-dtions for carry-
ing weight. With a true cataleptic that could not be
done. Secondly, if you placed a true cataleptic so as to
r st with the line hack of his head on one chair and the
heels of bis boots on another, he would remain quite rigid
and support weights well; but Kennedy’s subject does not
rest so. His rest is with that mass of powerful muscle
between the mot of the neck and the shoulder-blades on
the one cbair-bai k, anil that very strong spot just above
the heels (tendon of Achilles) on the other. He thus gets
a splendid acrobatic hold with the neck and shoulders at
one end and w ith the hook f >rmed by the shinbones and
heel at the other. So much for show mesmerism.”
George Kignold, it is whispered, will not go to Iling-
land at all, hut settle down peacefully in Sydney. A
couple of years of ent ire rest from I lie stage would give
the weary one a new lease of acting life, then he might go
’Ume and star vigorously in sui able character-parts. The
older generation of London theatre-goers who remember
him at the Queen’s, in Long Acre, have retained a great
opinion of George. For them, he is the Kignold, and
tliey wonder what became of him after be went away.
Ma ige Rossell, the dancer of the Gaiety Co., didn’t
rent do in Melbourne under pantomime engagement to
the Finn, nor was she ever offered an engagement, or
sounded on the subject. There may have been some
foundation for the rumour that Lama Kearney would
stay <>u awhile, but nothing came of the idea. All Ihe
Gee-Gees, bar Deeima M >ore, sailed away from Australia
toe other week, and now Miss Deeima is going,
having seen the Cnp and dropped a few sovereigns in the
meantime.
Travelling theatrical companies are much handicapped
by Hie neglected and shamefully wretched condition of
bush town-halls and theatres. The other night the
manager of the Ada Delroy Co., on arrival at a place
where the co. was hilled to appear same night, found Ihe
slage-furnil tire of the "theatre” to consist of a three-
legged coair and a dreadfully-out-of-lnoe piano; of eight
foot ami hall-lamps only two were fit for ttse. While
walking across the stage he stepped right through one of
the boards and narrowly escaped serious injury.
Prof. Souquet’s bear, at Melb. Opera House, has a huge
liking and an extensive swallow for long beers, and may
often be seen welting bis clay in adjacent pubs. Thus
the foreign bear enjoys privileges not accorded to the
Australian aboriginal king.
Two prominent and well-advertised Australian actresses,
one very plump and the other very skinny, bolh declare
that they are wedded to their art, and do not want, to
marry any man and nurse babies. There is one thing
to he said of this view—a woman wedded s-.lely to her art
stands in no danger of being made a respondent by her
husband.
Miss Mitchell leaves Melb. this week to join her sister,
Madame Melba, in America. Sbe will lie accompanied by
her youngest brother, who intends to become a profes-
sional singer. He is already an accomplished pianist.
(“ Poverty Point ” continued on page 20.)
IN MEMORIAM.
(Amy I on-lie ami Arthur Dacre.)
The trash'd i is done, the curtain fulls
On ils ini’*’ truuic close. Toe play was Life,
A ilcapemie d and a wife,
Misfortunes undeserved, neifleci that (.'alls
Proud spirits worse than scorn the end appals,
A deadly hnllet and a fatal knife
Free doth together fmiii the unequal strife,
And each wit h dy inif lips the other calls.
“In deaf.li imparled !” They had shared all fates.
Wooed (•'on tine’s smiles ami won them, faced her frown.
And 'trainsl her spite these latter dais had striven,
To .• ether alwa.is, e> er true heart-males 1
Their life's devotion Hnd* a yhastly crown.
Yel who scill sa\ they ahall not he forgiven?
Nov. 13, 1395.
G. G.


gd
Wonderful Discovery!
R. O S B’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTIOY.
rpHIS lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Blight,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight,
Very "beneficial to those who have If'eak Byes, as it
strengthens the Sight. By post, 3s. per bottle.
Solelv by If. A. ROSE. Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 496.
PEATE & HARCOURT,
Telephone No. 496.
THE PREMIER GROCERY ESTABLISHMENT OF AUSTRALIA
By Special Appointment,
Purveyors to
fg
H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh,
and
His Excellency the Governor.
GROCERS, WINE MERCHANTS & ITALIAN WAREHOUSEMEN.
BEST OF GOODS AT GREATLY REDUCED BRICES.
2 5 5 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Welcomed
Everywhere
WOLFE’S H
SCHNAPPS.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
Society
It is not absolutely impossible that the
Dean alleged-conspiracy case may be heard before
Mr. Justice Innes, who, so far, has (fortunately
for himself) not been mixed up with the matter at
a ‘l-. .His Honor has been for some months re-
cruiting at Bathurst, and is now, people will be
glad to hear, much improved in health. If, how-
ever, Judge Innes is at all superstitious he will
carefully keep out of the case. The Chief Justice
can’t very well sit, having been consulted re the
Dean-Meagher confession; of course Judge Win-
deyer cannot sit, and Judge Simpson happens to
be closely related to Salomons, Q.C. It would
also, for obvious reasons, be inadvisable for
Acting-Justice Cohen to take a hand in the affair.
Judge Manning, unless prevented by his ex-
tremely bad health, may take the case, which will
probably come on within 10 days. But it would
be very mun’j better for the province to borrow a
Judge for Che occasion.
* * *
Late on publication night somebody rang
this paper up on the telephone, and breathed
over the wire—this :
S.A. Register, which did not get the
paragraph, accuses the Advertiser of “ vul-
FOUND AT LAST.
HE: “ Didn't I propose to you last night? ”
SHE : "There! I was just wondering who it was."
garity ” and an “ invasion of the privacy of a
gentleman’s domestic circle,” because of the pub-
lication of the Windeyer weeping episode at Govt.
House, Adelaide. Yet the Register has re-
peatedly put into print the proceedings of Labor
conventions, and has boasted that it can always
break through the ring of secrecy attempted to be
maintained. Its avowed desire, too, is to injure
the (Labor) cause by prematurely divulging plans
of campaign.
# # #
Adelaide society will not see much of
Lady Buxton, who, sad to relate, is a confirmed
invalid owing to a spinal trouble. Lady 8., by
the way, “does” Adelaide block in a dog-cart
with a miniature pony, led by a page.
Melb. Y.M.C.A.’s Brassey-grovel landed
that pious organisation in a loss of .£65 through
the non-attendance of the Governor and the con-
sequent absence of the large, bloated people who
were to pay 21s. each for the privilege of sitting
on the same balcony with him. The former
deficit was £230, and this last straw has moved
some members to suggest closing up the show
altogether, “ until God inspires someone to con-
tinue the work.” The man who thinks he is
inspired by God to continue a “ work ” which
consists so largely of grovelling to Brassey is cer-
tainly a humorous blasphemer.
* * *
The “ Mary Dean Fund ” has practically
collapsed. It fizzled out amongst the lawyers.
* • #
The solemn humor of the S. A. clergy was
recently exemplified in their decision to set apart
Nov. 10 for prayers for rain—a time when a
general downpour would have ruined the hay-
crops then being reaped. S.A. farmers indig-
nantly disclaimed any business connection with
the parsons on this account, and a general chorus
of condemnation also came from the northern
wheat districts, owing to the fact chat it was too
late for rain to save the wheat-crops, but just in
time for it to revive the locust plague and destroy
what little wheat there was to garner.
• # #
New Botany Bay maxim : The curse of
“justice ” never did run smooth.
Formerly the dude of the city
was the bank-clerk ; now, the afore-
said bank-clerk is mostly a mealy-
mouthed, callow and teetotal youth,
with a soulful yearning for prayer-
meetings patronised by his general-
manager. The gorgeous bank-clerk
of the boom-time has been carefully
weeded out of the various staffs,
or has found such a strict super-
vision kept over the stamps and
commission accounts that life has
become irksome and tailors un-
usually aggressive.
* * m
The Protestant nuns become
more numerous. “ Sister Hannah ”
was dedicated to the order of
Methodist Sisterhood with porten-
tous solemnity in Melbourne the
other night, the Rev. Fitchett boss-
ing the ordination. “Sister Han-
nah ” is now supposed to be wedded
to the church from which there is
no divorce, and has been warned
by the Wesleyan Archbishop to
“ remember the fate of the woman
who looked back,” a hint to Hannah
that she must never hope for a
more material and tangible spouse
for fear of being turned into a
packet of salts, or something of the
kind.
* * *
Police-court lawyers are said
to be sometimes conscience-stricken.
One, now dead, whose practice lay
exclusively at the old Sydney Cen-
tral, received £lo—a princely sum
for him—to defend a well-connected
rascal, charged with assaulting a
little girl. When the child was in
the witness-box he examined her
closely, and, when finished, an-
nounced to the Bench that he
believed every word the child said,
and threw up his “ brief ” for the
defence. But he did not throw up
the fee.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, — Do you know
that it is etiquette to allow Her
Shabbiesty to fix her own price on
anything she may wish to pur-
chase ? There was sent ’Ome from
N.S.W. a very beautiful cabinet,
containing various nick-nacks that
had nndoubtedlybelonged toCharles
I. Lady Jersey had seen it, and
would have given a century for it,
but advised the owner to let Vic-
toria R. have it. After a year’s
delay, £25 was forwarded. And
this puts me in mind of Mr. Leslie '
Murray Robertson, the Eton boy, '
who thought and was thought to save '
the Queen’s life, when the lunatic
aimed a non-shooting-stick at her. His reward
was—an umbrella : never used, but ornamenting a
Ceylon bungalow now, and the subject of many a
jest.—Scot R. Wbink Deaf.
* * *
Ballarat did its suffering on account of
Albert Edward’s birthday on Friday instead of
Saturday, the real day appointed by Providence.
The Friday half-holiday is the settled policy of
Ballarat, established with a thoroughness prob-
ably equalled nowhere else. Only fruit shops,
tobacconists and hotels open—just as if it were
Sunday. The local population regard Friday as
an impossible day to shop on, though the shops
open in the morning for the sake of the moths;
and the practice attempted for a time of opening
on Friday afternoon, when another holiday
occurred in the week, was quickly abandoned.
The plan adopted is to celebrate all holidays, in-
cluding Whit Monday, on Friday. Strangers find
it rather extraordinary to see New Year’s Day
celebrated in December, and Xmas and Boxing
Day separated by a week, but the Ballarat folk
must have their own way. It is now proposed
to abolish Sunday as a holiday in favor of Friday,
and there is much to be said for the change.
Ballarat weather is always too bad on Sunday to
go to church (the weather always goes to church
in other places) ,and it is always fine enough on
Friday for the perilous passage on a horse-tram
to the Wendouree rushes.
* • *
Sydney dailies were “ had ” over that mis-
sing bride—except the Herald, which held back
and grinned at the hoax.
* * *
Last year, President R. 0. Baker, of S.A.
Leg. Council, declined to ask Premier Kingston
to his annual dinner, and, as a consequence, the
Speaker and Chairman of Committees of the
Assembly, with some other persons, stopped
away. This year, Baker gets over the difficulty
by confining his invitations to the Council, the
vice-regal party, and the press.
# # #
Now that the Melb. police defray travel-
ling expenses out of their own pockets, victims of
street accidents or sudden indisposition, if they
have a leg to stand on, are escorted to the nearest
hospital on foot, instead of by tram or cab as
formerly. On the day of Gov. Brassey’s landing,
an urchin who got mixed up with the St. Kilda
traffic and sustained painful scalp injuries, was
marched off by a member of the force to the
Homoeopathic Hospital, howling dismally and
apparently hard put to it to keep up with his long-
legged companion.
* * #
A bicycle-race between Lady Bias >y and
Judge Williams, over the Melb. Cup course (gate-
money to go to the local hospitals), would be a
fetching thing, doncherthink ?
* * *
In order to surmount the difficulty of dis-
criminating amongst the thousands of odd-lots
who signed Govt. House visiting-book, Gov.
Brassey made his Cup ball almost exclusively
official.
* m m
A “ small and early ” takes place at Govt.
House, Melb., on Friday, 22nd. Only 500 cards
have been issued for the function, and only mem-
bers of “ the innermost circle ” have been bidden.
• * *
The hanging of a woman during “ Carnival
week ” was so obviously inappropriate to the
occasion that the Melbourne dailies said as little
as possible about it. Mrs. Williams met her doom
on the Monday, and a full, gruesome report in the
Cup morning issue was not to be thought of. It
might have turned a few people’s stomachs against
the races.
• • *
The Argus, it is rumored, has issued a
general order to its literary staff to mount bell
toppers and for swear bicycles.
IN THE VINEYARD.
The Bulletin here prints an authentic photograph, recently
taken in Samoa by a Sydney amateur, of a Church of England
colored missionary. The picture will enable the pious ladies who
supply funds for the conversion of the heathen to perceive that all
their money is not spent in waistcoats. His reverence, it will he
observed, is a real parson, and “ has got ’em all on ” —holy hat,
sacred gamp, orthodox coat, and he carries under his arm seven
or eight pounds of the Word. Also, he is an unsophisticated
shepherd, and evidently possesses most rudimentary ideas as to the
proper manner of wearing his white necktie.
When Gov. Brassey first arrived in Melb.,
he talked at large about the desire of himself and
Lady B. to do good to everybody. But in the
latest Brassey utterance we have it that the Gov.’s
wife “has come to Victoria anxious to do all she
can in the sphere in which she moves for the good
of Victoria.”
(YMf
BIBLICAL.
“After man came woman."
Under the new Vic. Bill for the suppres-
sion of sweating, it is provided that if an inspector
hears sounds in a Chinese factory “as if Chinese
were working in prohibited hours,” that will be
held as prima facie evidence of work being done.
Irvine, M.P., warmly opposed this clause, which.
THE LAST TO CONFESS.
I must be in fashion ; confession’s the thing—
Like tan-shoes and johnnies, divorce and the ring ;
Hello ! Are you ready?—then riddle me this—
-1 came out of nothing and go back to bliss :
For I’m a Mahatma—please whisper it low—
And lived my last life where Mahatmas do grow,
And so what the jury are waiting to find,
1 see written clearly across the man’s mind.
My quaint astral body I send into space,
And hear its conclusions ere hearing the case.
The long hours of Court-work seem like unto years.
And oft-times my yawnings are taken for tears.
I often have wondered why nobody guessed ;
And now—treat me kindly, because I’ve confessed!
Then the telephone rang-off abruptly, and ever
since The Bulletin has been wondering who
could possibly have been at the other end of the
wire.
THE KIND SKIPPER.
A jovial song of a Guv’nor brave,
The sorcy Sunbeam’s skipper !
’Tis said as ’ow, on the boundin’ wave,
He’ll shake his fust mate’s flipper.
And larf aloud when the waves do roar
To see ’ira thus unbendin’ ;
As a tar afloat, or a lord ashore,
He’s right-down condescendin’.
At Melbourne port, the other day,
This briny toff was landed,
And all the people cried “ ’Ooray !”
As good Queen Vic. commanded ;
They begged of ’im to boss the show,
Which ’e, their cause befriendin’,
Agreed to do, come weal or woe—
He’s right-down condescendin’.
He takes the ’elrn, quite simple-like,
No soshul dooties shirkin’,
And now and then he rides a bike.
To keep his liver workin’.
And if he gives the nobs a ball
They sees their skipper wendin’
His way around, with smiles for all—
He’s right-down condescendin’.
So true ’is ’eart to ocean foam.
Last week he "got invited
To patronise the Seamen’s Ome,
And there ’is lordship sighted
A sailor from the Sunbeam dear,
Whose presence warn’t offendin’;
The chairman smiled, and said “ Wot cheer !”
He’s right-down condescendin’.
No Saxon churl this Guv’nor brave—
His blood is Norman-racey,
He took the name ’is father gave
And turned it into “ Bracey.”
But though no lord wot ploughs the main
Has got more brass for spendin’,
We’d ’ave you understand again
He’s right-down condescendin’.


CHARLE MONT’S
STUDIOS,
492 George-st., Sydney,
AND AT
114 TSlizabeth-street, Melbourne.
The name of Charlemont & Co. has made itself
known by excellence in photography.^
(Charge for Cabinets
10s. per Dozen,
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free, by post t/irouyhotit
A astral ia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q'land-
Saw mi I Is, Eng I n e s,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PINE CARRIAGES and WAGGONS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, &c.
WILLIAM ZPLIEIMIXIsrGi-,
24 Clarence Street SYDNEY.
IF YOU WANT A PIANO,
I WRITE TO US.
WE WILL SEND OUR 50-PAGE CATALOGUE
FREE!
Giving valuable information. We make it. easy to deal
with us wherever you live. Our Prie s are most reason-
able for STRICTLY FIRST-CLASS PIANOS.
WE SELL ON EASY PAYMENTS.
We take Old Pianos in Exchange. We guarantee satis-
faction, or Piano to be returned to us at our expense
We are SOLE AGENTS for all the Best Makers.
Such as
Steiiuray and Sons. Rich, JApi> mid Sol n. Irrmmead ,
Feurich, heke, Uebel and Lechleder. Uorsand A a ln-ann.
W. H. PALING & CO. LIMITED,
338 George-street, SYDNEY. [Established 1853.)
he said, might imperil the liberty of a Chinese
laundryman having a bath. The mad extrava-
gance of the idea paralysed the Assembly for
fifteen minutes, but the clause stands.
* * *
Some of the small Victorian sects have
been holding a day of humiliation and prayer for
rain. The large, massive churches are not in the
movement, which is confined almost entirely to
Bethsaida Chapel, and Bethel, and Bethany meet-
ing-house, and the Little Ehenezer, and the like.
Also, the prayer has somehow been postponed
until the crops are practically lost, and there is
little for the rain to rain upon save the bare
ground and the skeleton sheep and the overdraft.
There is a great want of generalship about the
business. It should have been started two months
earlier, and the entire praying horse-power of all
the sects should have been turned on in one terrific
blast, with a long, strong pull and a pull all
together.
* # #
There was a Baptist Union Conference in
Melb. last week, whereat a certain Rev. J. C.
Martin got upon the prevailing drought subject,
and gave the country some idea as to what the
Almighty means to do under the distressing cir-
cumstances. Rev. Martin, although viewing the
drought with regret, has not the least doubt that
“IT ALL DEPENDS.”
Gov. H AMPDEN (who rides) asks: “ Can I yet safe mounts for my daughters in Australia?”
“God will give the people strength to bear it.
Which is both reassuring and reasonable. The
Divine Providence that enables human nature to
put up with drivelling shepherds may be expected
to give agriculturists strength to survive the
drought. After all, it is mainly a question of
money or credit. The Lord is the storekeeper or
the bank. A small fanner would die of the
drought if his tucker supply were cut off, and a
squatter gets very shaky when the overdraft
stops payment.
# • *
The awful gathering of Smellbourne’s
anti-drinkers, anti-smokers, and anti-everything-
elsers in protest against post-card advertisements
is very significant. These are the people who
religiously refrain from sending twopenny letters
when penny cards will do as well. It is a case of
the Revenue being asked to forego a chance of
making a little money out of consideration for the
cant of its natural enemies, the Mean Brigade-
in a word, the temperance saints. Let ’em buy the
advt. space on the post-cards for themselves, and
substitute “ Eternity ” for the names of beers and
tobaccos. Ordinary sinners wouldn’t object.
* * *
Afc the recent funeral of a very prominent
brother, the local Orangemen down South, not
being able to get an imposing muster of the lodges
at short notice, hit upon the happy plan of hiring
a host of theatrical supers and rigging them up
in the yellow-jaundice regalia. The antics of the
brethren and pseudo-brethren around the grave
were described by onlookers as ridiculous and dis-
graceful. ♦
• • •
When Gov. Gormanston (who weighs some-
thing over 20st.) quits Tasmania, he will leave a
considerable-sized piece of flesh behind him in the
land of his temporary adoption. That ample
viceroy went Ashing on the Derwent recently, and
in a moment of excitement he sat down on his new
patent fish-hook just imported from England.
The implement of torture had to be cut out with a
pen-knife, and a pretty large piece of the Queen s
representative was cut out along with it and
thrown overboard. There is no dignity about the
vice-regal office under such conditions, and a
Governor with a fish-hook in him yells just like
any private citizen.
• * *
Last Saturday two suspended Sydney
solicitors applied to be re-admitted to practice,
and though the applications were decisively re-
jected by the Full Court the fact that they were
made stands as a record of the unspeakable gall
of the “ Gent One.” Both the solicitors got into
trouble through annexing their clients’ money—
the client in one case being a widow, and the
money annexed (£200) being every penny .she
possessed. The solicitors weren’t gaoled for their
mean thefts ; they were simply suspended in a
temporary way with an understanding that their
cases would be considered when they had paid
back the stealings. Neither solicitor paid back the
stealings, however, but both asked to be reinstated
on the ground of poverty, and the principal fraud
of the pair pleaded that unless he was allowed to
practise (and have a chance of getting at the money
of other clients without paying back the cash he
had already taken), “ it did not appear likely that
he would ever again be able to hold up his head as
an honest man.” This sounds pathetic enough,
and yet, if he had been anything else save a
solicitor, he would probably have been doing five
years’ gaol, and no one would have dreamt of
troubling about his head, except to see that it was
shaved regularly.
* * •
Misses HSlfreda Hilda Gamble, Janet
Lindsay Greig. and Ida Gertrude Margaret
Halley are the three latest women-graduates in
medicine of Melb. University. Miss Gamble is a
daughter of a Vic. school-inspector, and Miss
Halley of a well-known Wesleyan minister. (Miss
Greig’s younger sister will also graduate jn rueni-
cine in about a month’s time.) This brings up
the list of Vic. women-doctors to 13, of whom all
but one are Melb. graduates. That one is the
wife of the Rev, D. Egryn Jones, of Melb who,
as Emma Constance Stone, studied with, gra-
duated in medicine with, and married her hus-
band at Toronto.
• # • *
Ed, Bulletin,— As to your remark re
“Gen.” Booth’s comfortable and luxurious sur-
roundings and his female officers’ poverty and
privations in bush towns. In my backblocks
travels, I’ve met with most pitiful oases of dis-
tress amongst Salvation (female) officers. Weak-
minded but often good, honest women, living in
draughty humpies, on a meal a day or less, and
clad in merely sufficient rags to satisfy common
decency. In a Bogan River town I’ve known a
female “captain ” and “lieutenant ” live for three
days on one loaf ot bread and some fat. The only
female Salvationist who can enjoy more than a
“cadged” existence is the pretty one who can
trade upon her looks. To her the Mulgoa folks
throw their money. But good looks being a rarity
amongst Salvo’s, the majority of the women live a
wretched life—at times almost on the verge of
starvation. —R.H., Bourke.
who charged one Roberts, a neighboring selector,
with trying to poison herself, her grandmother,
and Noble Glass, her uncle, who boarded with
them, by putting strychnine into the'family flour-
bin, has, under pressure of oros£-examina*tion and
circumstances, confessed that her melodramatic
story of how, hearing a noise in the early morn-
ing she rose from bed and caught Roberts, with
a light in his hand, mixing strychnine with the
flour and muttering about r-r-revenge, was all a
He. Her admittedly trumped-up story alsotold how
Roberts, becoming aware of her presence, pointed
a rifle at her and threatened to shoot her dead,
and how, catching her by the neck, he promised
to blind her with vitriol, some of which vitriol, she
alleged, accounted for the holes in her mght-gown
and certain scars on her flesh. The sweet creature
now says that she made it all up out of her own
little head. “ Uncle told me to,” was her extenu-
ating plea—which supplies a neat paraded to the
excuse of-the Victorian girl who alleged that her
“Auntie told me to” say that her father was
concerned in a criminal assault. Now Ethel and her
uncle—an old and respected resident, and a 1-ay
preacher of apparently pious habits —stand charged
with conspiracy.
* * *
The interesting Paterson divorce - suit
came to a sudden end last week owing to the pro-
duction of a letter written by Mrs. Paterson to a
Sydney private-detective, in which she suggested
that he might be able, for a reasonable cash pay-
ment “to get a woman to lead Paterson
on.” The detective handed over the letter
and the case straightway broke down. ihe
business of hiring someone to lead another
person on is evidently at a discount smce
the disastrous collapse of the Butler trial, ihe
Paterson case, so far as the published evidence
goes, seems to be the story of a jealous, bad-
tempered woman who spent her life mostly in
looking round a, corner in hopes of finding her
husband winking at the servant, and the end ot it
was interesting chiefly because it afforded two
barristers an opportunity of showing how deeply
shocked they were at the wickedness of a client
who wanted to have her husband led on. And this,
though the law every day of the week allows
policemen in plain clothes and their fizgigs to lead
on publicans to illegal acts, and, when those acts
are accomplished, takes full advantage of its
position.
Mrs. Paterson, by the way, has been struck by
the Dean curse. Private-detective Cook’s action
in having the Chief Justice consulted as to whether
it was his duty to hand over to the Court the
compromising letter written him by the lady
would appear to have been inspired by the
action of Salomons, Q. 0., when he
the Chief Justice as to attorney Meagher s
confession. Cook is the detective entitled
to the credit of tracking down and land-
ing in gaol Butler and his fellow conspirators.
Mrs. Paterson, formerly Gill, was before her mar-
riage, in ’BB, a teacher of cookery at Sydney
Technical College, earning .£4OO a year ; respon-
dent, Hugh Paterson, is a fashionable Sydney
dentist, who admitted an annual income of about
,£lBOO. In ’94, a deed of separation was execiited,
under which the lady got an allowance of £.400
a year, and subsequently £3OO. It was partly,
Booth’s Army consists of a fatly-fed staff, ever
jaunting and junketing, and a mass of mendicant
field officers, able-bodied men and women, who
hardly ever get any wages, and live on charity.
# » *
Ethel Wright, the 17-year-old girl living
with her grandmother at Gunnedah (N.S.W.),
INNOCENCE ABROAD.
STATION OVERSEE R: “You go and camp at Mulga tank to-night; take some BAITS
with you; see if you can catch any dingoes.”
NEW-CHUM : “Very well, Mr. Johnston, but — er — er—where is the FISHING-ROD ?”
perhaps, her wish to increase this sum which pro-
vided Mr. Justice Simpson and society with so
rare a dish of scandal.
# • •
Virtue is vice parsonified (matrimonial
maxim).
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insuffi-
ciently stamped. Name and address must
appear on MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted, and in no
case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of
any province) accompany.
Old Love: Only late Pol 1 tax : The Chow
charms all women—white or black.... J. W.H.: Can you
uive date, parlies, and reference to trial'?,... .Gerry:
Noted B.VV. : All go in three lines Warra; Apropos
of what? Rupert Powindepe: Just consider your own
pen-name and tell us if a man who picks a label like that
could ever be worth print.... M.M. (Allora): Pears to ua
he was properly taken down. Why did the boys follow
him, if abject as stated ?.... U.N. W.; Pretty doubtful
Paul Jones: Dealt with ... Wild Rose: You’ll have to
write so that we can read you before you get a chance of
being read by anybody else.... H.F. (90-Mile): No picture
will bear a yard of explanatory letterpress: no decent
picture need be asked to . Wenwy: Merely drivel....
H. : “Jack Allen” no inspiration Waihoa: Answers
neat, but moral rather dull for US... .W.: Yet there
seems to be little doubt that the essence of Buddhism-
all that gives it oreed-value-oame directly through the
Buddha ...Subscriber: Ttais is the size of a burning
question as seen at EuimavHle ( ). \nd this
is the size it looks to the outside world
Scotty : Won’t attempt to illustrate it; only uot6 could
do that . Monte (M.): Perkin’s story a pretty well-
known Yankee-drummer’s wheeze —though we haven t
seen it in print... G.A.F. (Westralia): Clippings, thanks.
A.E. : The anti-toxin treatment of diphtheria appears
to give 50 per cent, deaths less in cases so treated than i>n
those treated otherwise Both good Anon
(Melb.): Your letter smells nice—but it really needed a
lot of scent ...R.B. (M.L.): Of purely local flavor....
Blunderbuss: More promising than usaWe W.L.J. : A
short out to hell is down the dry gully of “ religion.
F. Mack (Melb.); We doff our hat to your pun—it is so
old ...M.J.F. (Arwc.): Daily-newspaper matter. The
Bulletin isn’t a “ society ” paper.. . Robert P.F. : Don t
remember “ Fixed Photo,” What is the title of the pre-
sent set of verses, which have become disconnected from
your note? ...Alpha: “ Turning white when in a rage
is not a sign of cowardice ; but is a sign usually asso-
ciated with uncontrollable passion.... Elbow : But then
N.S.W. barristers of standing do not now covet seats in
the Leg. Assembly. Barristers in the Assembly are de-
barred from taking Crown fees, while there i*s no such
restriction of members of the Council... .G.P., jun. :
Bulletin was established to yell timely discords, not to
sing harmoniously in chorus. Had it sung in chorus it
would have died ere it was fully born .. Gertrude K. L. :
“ A Promise Kept ” possesses little strength or interest.
“ Would-be Artist ” : Neither up to standard.
Sketches returned ..Nil: Excellent . ..X.Y.Z.: Accept-
able Bayangs; A Bulletin paragraph.. . A.L.: That s
always When a man’s hair sticks out of the
top of his hat, and his booLheels are down, and his eyes
bloodshot with drink, p eo Pl e say, ‘‘Ah, what a clever
man, if he’d only keep away from grog ! ” If he hadn t
bloodshot eyes and had clothes the world would never
think him clever at all, (2) He perhaps didn’t go to the
devil simply because lie drank—he very likely drank
because he needed a stimulant, having gone physically
and mentally to the devil through causes other than
drink. ..Aro: This paper doesn’t want any paragraphs
about the two self-advertising Melbourne ladies in ques-
tion. Those blushless persons can be left to take care of
themselves in England.... Whaler; Don’t take your paw
off your ham-bone while you listen to what the other dog
has to say about a good run for mutton.... F.J.O. : A
mile of maunder about a ghost declined. Maunder is bad
enough, but.maunder plus ghost is deadly J.C.M. :
Too much fog in proportion to lantern Si Jay: Don’t
like dialect at all—hut can on occasion take a little as
flavor. Can’t stand ten tedious unbroken pp...^
Tahune: Swag far too long for interest W.J.VV.: “It
was a peaceful and prosperous office in Philadelphia,”
That settles it. No matter how original, it would read as
if scissored.... Bollon ; Not enough art to redeem riski-
ness. As with a shirt, so with a story: people will stand
a lot of starch, but only a certain amount of blue
Tangi: Unconvincing, both as regards wording and
description Esau; The old, irresistible-impulse theme,
now so hackneyed that it should be reserved for strong
hands. See Alex. Montgomery’s “ How it Happens ” in
coming Bulletin Xmas Number ... Blunderbuss; None
of the stories will do. The only idea in the lot is the
telegraph-master’s hoax. ..Walden Pine; It leads to
nowhere... H.L.S. : “Inter., yes; “Yellow, n 0....
Mittagong: One may do; but don’t you see that a
common bard may infuse fire into common metre, but it
takes a very uncommon one to grapple with the rondel-
form, for example, without losing all that makes poetry
worth writing and. reading. The soul is a good seven-
tenths of the poem ; and the office of the other three-
tenths is only to set off as cunningly as possible the jewel
they hold W.H.8.: Good matter; wants shorter,
stronger treatment. .. H.W.P. (H.): Thanks... .Quercus:
Too stagey ..F.C.: Not up ..J.J.8.:
Holder M.: Neatly-bottled nothing. “ Handsome Tom ”
tedious; “Offender“.clever, but not attractive.. .A.B.C.:
Abash of dismal commonplaces L.L. (Camperdown):
Some “poets” drivel in a large, indefinite way ; others in
a specific, methodical way; you in both ways Aescorra:
Reads like the howl of a man jammed in a door. Prob-
ably you deserve to be jammed... Johnny Cake: Thanks.
O. Maxima: In a word, you want Melbourne’s sewer
boss, the White Knight, to be known as the “White
» Knightman” Ben Fryer; A lovely horror
Sakia; “Tramway " has merit, but too long for it; others
pitch the sermon-note still higher—too high. Life’s
prose is dreary enough; try and brighten its verse
Maque : Olive oil may be a good remedy for snake-bite,
but we’d rather let another fellow prove it for Australia.
W. (L.): Federation yarn too dull, long, and
obscurish ...G.M.R. : Both tedious C.C.M. : Wants
brighter treatment . 8.G.5.: One chunk of wisdom:
“ I don’t believe in showing things to my friends ; if the
idea is bad they laugh at you, if it is good 10 to 1 they’ll
crib it and send it along before you as their own.”
P.M.: Ambition to meet Lawson and “Banjo” down
below will probably be ungratified. There must be classi-
fication of poets, even in hell J.B.J. : Address Davis
and Knapp, Pink’s Bdgs., Elizabeth-st., Melb.... Heteros:
Poetical ; wants compression. And harmonise accents,
equalise lines ...L.R. (North Sydney): Don’t care for
melodrama; be natural... .Name : Girly-girly.., Swan:
Pretty small R.W.: Sorry unsuitable Lonehand :
Quite right to scrawl ’em in pencil: ink would be wasted.
Mac: Thanks Confidence: It is sounder than the
majority, and null, we believe, get through all right...
Metiher: Remarks about your 42-inoh chest only interest-
ing to yourself J.V. (Port Melbourne): Received...
w7h. I. Skey: What, O blue-moulded bard of muddle-
ment, is this?—
A. ticket from the bees in T. 3’s is hiding
A. tree for the B. in the T. leaves is boiling
A. B. for the leaves in the street he is roving
A. T, from the 3’s in the corner is making
A. Boar in the wombat in the ranges is hiding
A. tiger in brazil a leapord is sleeping
A. loin on the liffey is kissing home rule.
A.M, (Hobart): Thanks... John Nelson (Maoriland):
The Bulletin writer in question spent eight years in
M.L., and probably knows the country better than you
do. Judging from your letter you don’t look like a
person who knows anything ..J.B. (West alia): The
mate dying by the lone camp-fire, and the wind sighing
through the trees, and the forgotten grave and the
zephyr and the moans and the groans and the distant
wail—all as usual H.R.L. :No waterhole handy ?


The Sydney Furnishing House.
J. W. CLIFF, Junr., and Co., 175 Pitt-st. (near King-st.),
ARTISTIC AND ECONOMICAL HOUSE FURNISHERS.
We are making a Leading Line of “BAMBOO COSIE CORNERS” and
Chairs to match, and have in stock a number of New Designs, not to be
obtained elsewhere. They are finished in Nickel Mounts, upholstered and
draped in materials of choice designs and colors. Amongst others we beg
to draw your attention to
The Bijou Bamboo Cosie Corner,
Price - £7.
NOW READY.
THE BULLETIN’S
HISTORY OF THE DEAN CASE.
Containing a circumstantial account of this
celebrated criminal trial, with all develop-
ments up to date. Complete, with many illus-
trations and portraits of the principal persona
concerned
"The most remarkable story in the annals of Austra
lasian crime."
20 pages, full Bulletin size, with illustrated
cover. Post-free in K.S.iV., 7d, : Australasia
and foreign, 7d. per copy. Agents and store-
keepers supplied at wholesale rates.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SAPHO SOAP
REMOVES ALL WRINKLES AND IMPURITIES OF THE SKIN,
PLAIN woman made ATTRACTIVE. PRETTY woman
made BEWITCHING.
By its Constant Use —
SAPHO PERFUME
for the HANDKERCHIEF
COMPLETES THE
TOILETTE.
A great grievance among Northern miners is
the excessive fees charged at every turn by Govt. Apropos
of which Browne, M.L. A. (fog'.): “ Up North, in the office
of a certain warden was a clock. It was a beautiful clock
there were reliable rumors that the sun rose and set by
it. The miners used to regulate their watches by it. But
the fee business killed it dead. It still keeps good time,
but the miners consult it no more. Why? Because of
the fees! If seen consulting it they’re afraid they’d be
billed.”
• ♦ • •
One J. Brown signs his name to a remarkable
statement published in a Q. paper. He says he took up
a goldfields’ homestead holding at Cloncurry 19 years
ago, has lived there ever since and always paid up. Now
he has been turned out because a squatter, with thou-
sands of acres, wanted it for pasture puipases. Having
to re-build, he asked said squatter for the use of the
yards in the meantime, but was refused. He got six
ni nths’ notice to quit, he says, but what was the use of
that when he hadn’t got the valuation to go on with?
Also, the Govt, actually appointed the squatter valuator
to value the property he was going to pay for 1
• * » »
The town of Gympie had extended so much
that it became necessary to close the cemetery (located
in the centre of gold-bearing reefs) and start another in a
different locality ; whereupon a number of Gympieites
had their friends’ remains removed to the new God’s
acre. One evening a miner was returning home after
removing the remains of his brother Joe, from which he
had taken a small bone and put same in his pocket.
Meeting a well-known veteran mine-manager he handed
him the bone and asked his opinion of it. The manager
took it, viewed it all over, remarked that it must be some
kind of soft brown slate ; and then proceeded to break it
with his teeth. “Hold on,” exclaimed the miner,
“ that s Joe ! ” “What’s Joe?” enquired the manager.
"My brother, Joe,” retorted the digger, “that was
buried in the old cemetery about 10 years ago. I’ve been
removing the poor fellow to the new C‘ metery, and that
is a small bone from some part of his body.” Moral;
The wisest expert can be puzzled by an odd specimen,
seen out of its site and surroundings.
* • • •
Even though the place was valued at a much-
nigher figure in the lottery-prospectus, W. R. Wilson
showed some generosity in bidding £21,000 for
the St. Alban’s Estate. There was little or no
genuine opposition, the price being simply- run-
up by members of the syndicate that won the pro-
perty in the “distribution,” It VV.R. had been disposed
to drive a hard bargain he might, no doubt, have got the
place back again for a good deal less money than he paid.
£24,000 was his ultimatum. When the syndicate found
that he had finished bidding (through an agent) it
withdrew its last forcing offer of £25 000, and Wilson’s
paradise was regained. Unlucky nurchasers of St. Alban’s
lottery-tickets can console themselves with the reflection
that they stood a chance of capturing a £24,000 prize.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
In some respects it is a pity that a law-suit
didn't happen re the ownership of Trenton. One of the
liquidators who put in a claim to the horse, on account
of share-calls unpaid by the winning ticket-holder was
Matthew Davies’s brother. A Davies demanding just
settlement of financial Kabilities from an who
forgot to file his schedule, or who hasn’t been released by
Judge Madden in consideration of nothing in the £,
would have made a delectable legal spectacle. Now if
Matthew' Davies were to win a first-prize in Tatt.’s swe’en
he’d be all right. *
* • • •
Lanseil has settled his little dispute with the
Vie. Water Department, hence the reappearance of his
Comet among Bendigo’s gold yielders—Bos tons for 4450 z
• • • *
Ballarat miners talk of forming a Tributors’
League. This to prevent sweating and the rapacity of
men who, not satisfied with good tributes, covet blocks
worked on wages. To squeeze the wagemen out the
“ grabbers" often tempt co’s with nearly 60 per cent, of
the gold won, and pay half the royalty when required.
The tribute evil in Bdlarat is quite on a par with the
sweating tactics of the metropolitan clothiers
• * • •
What salary is Vic. prepared to pay to the
manager of its State Bank?
* * • •
Some hundreds of lambs were sold at New-
market (Melb.), on 12th inst., at 3jd. each, the record
low price.
• • • *
Three syndicates, Coolgardie, German, and
London, are battling for the option of the once rich Iron-
stone Hill Lead Co’s mine at Malmesbury (Vic.). In its
palmy days the Ironstone gutter turned out a lot of gold.
Ominous, though, to hear of a Coolgardie syndicate looking
further afield than its own “phenomenal ” country.
• • * •
Another “go on the land ” horror. A Wan-
garatta (Vic.) man’s ton of honey realised £ll in London.
* ♦ • »
At Cape Otway (Vic.) a prospecting-party, out
for the last two years, has found gold in the debris when
driving in the hope of picking up a reef. Such persistency
deserves to be rewarded with a big find. A good reefing
field in the Otway forest would mean the opening up of
an extensive area of agricultural country, now pretty
well given over to the timber-splitters.
• • • »
Bear Bulletin, —Re a recent Bulletin para-
graph : Castlemaine reefs have never had a fair chance.
Hardly a shaft in the place has gone down past 400 ft. ;
and many cases could be cited of mines in other places
which did not pay between the surface and deep levels.
Look at the Star of the East in Ballarat, and the bad
time it passed through before it got 1000 to 2000 oz. at a
hig depth. The deepest mine in Castlemaine district is
the Ajax (1300 ft.), in the hands of Lanseil, of Bendigo.
And Lanseil, whose No. 180 at B»ndigo was the first Vic.
mine to get half-a-mile down, ought to be a reliable man
in deep-sinking. Bendigo mines are payable as far down
asSOOOft. Castlemaine has not paid between 300 ft. and
500 ft., and so everybody “funks” trying further. But
things are looking less dead just now. The Old Quartz
Hii), which used to go 20oz. to the ton, has been found to
give |oz. to the ton from its quartz refuse; and the
South Wattle Gully, which more than paid working ex-
penses four years ago, and has supported tributors since,
is being syndicated afresh. It will be time enough to call
ns “ only surface ” when we have had a show at bigger
d-pths.—W.
In ’94 Vic. employed 27,856 miners— best on
record since 'B4. Ballarat, top, 6317; Bendigo, fourth,
4282—both Castlemaine and Maryborough leading the
latter by a few hundreds. Chinese are deserting mining,
their number in ten years having fallen from 5359 to 2228.
Expected this year’s record will show a big increase in
the mining population.
• » • •
Lanseil, of Bendigo, Is a director in 35 local
mines, besides owning seven. His big scheme to drive
from the Sheepshead line to the old Garden Gully
line has been burst up through a lease forfeited for neglect
ot labor covenants. Lansell says he has so far dropped
£BO,OOO in developing the Sheepshead, but he may soon
be getting some of his money back, as a recent 77-ton trial
gave 28oz. 15dwt.
• * • »
Lansell’s famous 180 is now down 3200 odd feet.
In the fifties Theo. Rallerstedt and son picked up the 180
for £3O, sank lower, woo an immense fortune, and, think-
ing the mine played out, sold it to Lansell for £30,000.
First slope he worked yielded £lBO,OOO profit I But then
how much of that has his show mine, the 222, swallowed
up? Lansell one day to the writer: ‘‘l took £90,000 out
of that hole (180) and put it into that hole (222) over
there.”
Lansell and his two brothers originally started
in Bendigo as butchers, with a soap-factory as a side-
show. Lucky specs, in the Advance and Cinderella mines
added the first big pile to George’s fortune, and he dthy
dies, from the rich Garden Gully United (paid £696,315 in
divs.) topped it off. When the Garden was in the
“dumps," he held a heavy share swag, and to lighten the
load actually paid a friend £2 10s. to accept 5000 and the
liability on them. That parcel represented a fortune,
and a few years later the acceptor returned to England to
invest his wealth in a palatial residence and estate.
• » • ♦
Shares in Golden Point and Crown (Lefroy)
hardening. Company said to be on 2oz. stone. A patch
was struck in same ground some years ago.
• • • •
Sections are being taken up at Beaconsfield in
view of the flotation of the Tasmanian G.M. J. Bull is
long-pursed.
* ♦ • •
A Hill End syndicate has, it is said, offered
Leffiey Brothers £15,000 for the Golden Gate mine,
Windeyer, with a view to Sydney flotation. About
140 tons ot stone taken from the claim yielded 3400 z.
• » • *
S. A. Justice Bundey has ruled that, in distribut-
ing the assets of a voluntarily wound-up mining co., paid-
up shareholders rank first, i.e., their initial whack con-
sisting of the excess paid up on their shares over the con-
tribs. Balance to be apportioned equally among share-
holders on the basis of their representation. This decision
was given in the matter of the Royal Mint and Iron King
Co., which had £30,000 and 37,000 shares in the English
co., which bought the property to whack out.
* * * •
_ Ex-Q. Mines-Minister Hodgkinsnn, now defi-
nitely located at Perth, has declined £lOOO a year consult-
ing-engineership to a new British £200,000 VV.A. mining
trust.
* • • *
One can nearly feel the simmer of the Tas.
silver-boom. Wild-eyed telegrams flaunting 1000 up to
4000 oz. assays —vide Beulah (Scamander district) chloride
specimens—begin to bristle in the “great” dailies. Also,
notice the sudden eagerness with which the pan rs are
seized for Tas. mining news. Melb. Agk prints columns
about Mt. Lyell and "pupa,” but casts a atony' stare at
the new Gippsland fields. Now, which Melb. crowd has a
big interest in the Tas. silver-fields ?
* • * •
Vic. capitalists are speculating in Tasmanian
mines pretty largely. A Vie. syndicate has just bought
the Evenden P. A, at N.E. Dundaa. A hig offer has been
made for the West Volunteer, and what looks a pot of
money for West Extend'd has been refused. An offer for
Mangana (including £lO,OOO as working capital) is
dangled before the eyes of the present owners. Ir would
seem that other good things are to follow the Tasmania,
11 because," moan the Tassies, “we are too poor to
develope ’em ourselves."
STILL SPREADING.”
BERRIGAN : “Begobs! If there ain’t Dooley
comin' out in favor of the New
Woman movement! ”
it r i » aut -c • j • •
Jacky O Hara, the versifying dominie
of South Melbourne College, is publishing a new
book of verse, “Songs of the South; Second
Series.” Jacky’s pa also drops into alleged verse
occasionally ; but his two doctor sisters have so
ar B * ;uc ' c closely to phial and scalpel.
ha s b T e s“" *°
wli y h . e has co, . ne to Australia. Interviewed at
Adelaide, he said that he was in office with Mr.
Gladstone when the telegram came from Sydney
offering to send the Australian contingent to the
Soudan. “I think that, more than anything
else,” said H.E “was what determined me to
a ®cept the position of Governor of N.b. Wales,
The offer went straight to the hearts of the English
people, and was cordially accepted by them. It
showed the real strength of the links uniting two
peoples, and proved that the bonds based on affeo-
t;on an( j sympathy are stronger than any that
, . j * . • ~ r, . .-j r<
bntmu l , wtsdoin could contrive. Lut. did Gov,
Hampden happen to know that the N.b. Wales
Artillery was horsed with mokes taken out of the
street ’buses, and that they absolutely refused to
move on the field of battle unless they heard
behind them noises as of the banging of doors?
Jones.
Jones is just an average man,
Built to bore on the average plan }
Every day, in every street,
This is the kind of Jones you meet!
“Well, old fellow, how’s things? Hey?
Hot enough for you to-day?
Sad thing this about the Dacres—
Very ! Did you hear the bakers
.Think of raising bread again?
No ! And you a family man 1
See old Sheridan’s up for trial
Wonder if he’ll still deny all
Knowledge of the circs. ? Rum case
That at Gunnedah ! What a face
The girl must have 1 I s’pose you’ll go
T’see the Guv’nor'land ? What? No?
Thought you liked that kind of show !
In a hurry? Well, ta-ta !
See you later in the bar,”
Reader, we’ve a strong suspicion
\ ou don’t know your own position ;
So we ask, in solemn tones,
On your oath, now, ARE YOU JONES?
P.M.G. Charles Todd, of S.A., is a true
Britisher : it is always “my officer at Eucla or
Port Darwin, &c.”
A committee representing the Melbourne
and suburban municipal councils discovered, in
the course of its investigations, that in the pre-
paration of sausages it is customary to use the
bodies of unborn calves taken from slaughtered
cows.
Prince Christian Victor of Schleswig-
Holstein, a Heut. in the King’s Royal Rifle Corps,
will, it is cabled, accompany the British expedi-
tion to Ashantee. The British Royal family is
now so numerous that the country can afford to
throw a few to the niggers.
In the library of the Sunbeam are the
complete works of Zola! Now, if these books
had to pass the Vic. Customs, such is the prurient
tyranny exercised in Smellbourne, they would be
seized and cremated. But, being on Gov,
Brassey’s boat, they are safe.
Gov. Norman, of Queensland, left Sydney
for England, vid Maoriland, per Mararoa, last
Saturday. He was most popular, not only because
of his enviable record as a good and brave soldier,
but because he was unaffected and sincere, and
never stepped officially outside his groove.
Hanging is indeed a great deterrent!
Within a fortnight of Victoria’s last woman-
choking, three murders occurred, one of which
was in many respects similar to the crime of
Emma Williams. A desperate mother killed her
child and hanged herself immediately afterwards.
She had only learnt from the hanging not to leave
the job to society.
A huge crowd assembled at the funeral of
the Dacres, and many wreaths were sent —even by
people to whom the deceased were personally un-
known. The intense solicitude ever manifested
by Dacre for his wife, and the closeness with
which the ill-fated pair were apparently bound by
the memory of their dead child, seems to have
struck an especially deep note in the feminine
breast.
In a N.S.W. railway-carriage, the other
day, two handcuffed prisoners, a German and an
aboriginal, attacked their escort, an elderly con-
stable, and, after battering him almost to death,
changed their prison clothes and escaped from
custody with the policeman’s revolver and money.
At latest the German had been re-captured, but
the aboriginal was still at large with the coin and
pistol. Our countryman !
Copy of a letter exhibited in window of
a Melb. suburban greengrocer’s shop :
Government House,
Melbourne, 3rd Nov., 1895.
Dear sir,—His Excellency Lord Brassey is very grateful
to you for the dish of peas you have been so good as to
send him.—l am, yours faithfully,
E. VV. Wallington, Private Secretary.
Poor Wallington !
Mr. Jacob Goldstein publishes this week
his new Jewish paper, the Australasian Hebrew,
which is to be “well-illustrated, beautifully printed,
spiritedly conducted and ably written.” The
Hebrews of Australasia have enough talent and
communal esprit to run an excellent paper; and
The Bulletin which has known Mr. Goldstein
' for more years than it likes to count, firmly believes
that he will make a good editor and conductor.
Ho ought to have been a Rabbi—but is content to
be an editor, poor fellow 1
Visitors to the Spouting Spring at Heli-
don, 70 miles from Brisbane, are always astounded
at the quantity of water they can consume at the
Spring. Ten or 12 tumblers in an hour or so are
taken with comfort. The reason is that the
tissues of the body are absorbing the water all the.
time. Something beneficial is always added to
the system by every glass of Helidon Spa water
consumed. Messrs. Tooth and Co., Kent
Brewery, are the Sydney agents.
Sir Henry Norman —Kanakaland’s retiring
Governor —is built something alter the pattern of ,
Abraham Lincoln. Not infrequently has he dis-
appointed lovers of flunkeydom by turning up at
an important function in a plain cab—a waggon-
ette at that. Healthy-minded, energetic, and
cosmopolitan, he will live in memory as one of the
most respectable figureheads Australia has yet
struck.
The onlyjfrnown cure for influenza is Cole'
mane and Sons Eucalypte Extract.
The Bulletin Christinas Number will
this year be published Dec. 12. It is a hard
matter to outdo previous Bulletin Christmas
Numbers in point of interest and variety, but if
that feat can be achieved it will be achieved on
Dec._ 12. The letterpress and illustrations are of
particularly high literary and artistic value, and
promise to move the great soul of the community
as that organ has rarely been moved before. The
price, as usual, is 7d. post free from this office to
any address ; and wholesale agents must positively
send in orders at once to ensure full supply.
HOW TO MAKE WO DLGROWING PAY.
The following extracts from “The National Wool
Company’s (Melbourne) Annual Review ” are
worthy of consideration by all engaged in the im-
portant industry of sheep shearing. The company
points out that there is a large increase in the pro-
duction of crossbred wools, and that a singular
carelessness is observable in the classing of these
wools. Various grades are mixed together, and
such clips are difficult to sell even at great sacri-
fices : stress is also laid on dipping immediately
after shearing. This important economy is
strongly recommended in order to kill all insects
such as ticks, which destroy the character of the
fleece besides injuring the health of the sheep (the
farmer loses a very large sum of money annually
by neglecting to dip the sheep). Deepskirting of
burry and seedy wools is also very necessary if
the farmer wishes to obtain a satisfactory sale for
his clip. Summing up the general outlook, the
National Wool Company points out that wool-
growing apd sheep-breeding will be more profitable
in the future if care and economy be devoted to
the management of the flocks. Rigorous culling
and the selection of the best sires is earnestly re-
commended. Consistently with its advice, the
National Wool Company has directed its
energies to securing economies in the marketing
of the great staple product. It has obtained
concessions in railway freights and is seeking
new wool-markets in Japan and China. Alto-
gether, the company is very active in progressive
movements, having for its object the extension
of the Australian wool-markets, •
A new pumping plant, which is gaining
every day in public favor, consists of a pump in
connection with a Capitaine Oil Engine. The
“ Capitaine,” being without boiler, is extremely
compact, and occupies only a few feet floor space.
It is well made, strong, but very light compared
with the ordinary engine and boiler. It is sim-
plicity itself, and is easily worked by anybody
without assistance of experienced engineers. The
engineis forwarded ready for work, may bemounted
anywhere at a cost of a few shillings, can be
easily started in five minutes, and then requires
no attendance whatever —in fact, may be left for
hours working by itself. Explosions cannot pos-
sibly happen, and the engine is absolutely safe in
every respect. The working expenses are very
low indeed, and are estimated not to exceed Ifd.
for raising 1000 gallons to a height of 100 ft. The
first cost of a complete pumping plant, pipes ex-
cluded, consisting of a 3h.p, engine and centri-
fugal pump capable of raising 8500 gallons per
hour 25 feet, is about .£l2O. For lifts above 40
feet force-pumps have to be used, which increase
the price by about £l5 to £25. Ex-Premier
Dibbs adopted the Capitaine engine when his
famous horse-pumping invention gave out.*
The big manufacturing firm, J. W. Cliff,
Jun., and Co., in Pitt-street,”between G.P.O. and
King-street, having purchased the stock and con-
nection of both Wallaoh’sand Newton and Lamb,
combines all the virtues of those long-standing and
highly-reputable firms with new virtues peculiarly
its own. The new firm’s shop-fronts’ display
would be an ornament to any business-city of the
globe, but what most distinguishes the firm is its
special lines ; the most modern styles of drawing-
room furniture—light, graceful, and just suited to
this climate ; also the bamboo cosy corner set —
light and handsome, and without a rival in
the Southern hemisphere; Bedroom suites are
also specialities. The firm being a manufacturer
guarantees its stock to be well seasoned ; the
workmanship A 1 ; the prices within easy reach
of the great general and lower than any
would-be rival’s. There is a big fitting, packing,
and polishing department; and the firm does a
big all-round Australian business, particularly
with Queensland and West Australia. It has
sent tons of stock Coolgardiewards. If the visitor
to Sydney finds time hang on his hands he
couldn’t do better than walk in to J. W. Cliff,
junr., and Co., sit in one of the fine new divan
chairs, and admire the charming effects that can
be arranged with artistic furniture.*


M E L AC H RING
CIGARETTES.
M. MELACHRINO and CO.,
C. I / It o.
Largest .Manufacturers of the
Best Egyptian Cigarettes-
Siii>|-lie<t to nsir tint) London Clubs and
It giimntal Messes.
Han / Maile. Ahsohitrh/ Pure.
To In* hail from all L*atl;nn TouaCi'CMiiSlS.
EID
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
GUAI {A NT HKI > s IM. 1X I) 11) CONDITION.
Largest BuLllr-i's ami Shippers iu the World.
W. BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
568, 570 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
SPECIAL PRICES for Men's and Boys' Clothing
from Now to Christmas ;—
Men’s Cheap Tweed or Serge Suits, strong, 12s.
9d, 15s. 9d.; and Men’s Secgerette Suits, or Statf-
Serge Suits, 215., 275. Gd., 355. Men’s Black Cork-
screw Worsted Suits, 295. Gd., 375. Cd., 435. Men’s
Alpaca Coats, 6s. 9d., Bs. 6d. White Drill Coats,
4s. 9ck, 7s. Gd. Strong Tweed Trousers, 3s. Gd., ss.
Soft Felt Hat, with Turban, 4s. 9d., 6s. 6d. White
Cricketing Shirts, 2s. 9d., 3s. 9d. White Flannel
Cricketing Shirts, 4s. 9d., 6s. 6d. Cricketing
Trousers, 6s. 9d., Ss. 9d. Men’s Cotton Working
Shirts, Is., Is. 3d., Is. 6d., 2s. Men’s Regatta and
Oxford Shirts, with two spare Collars, 3s. Men’s
Pyjama Suits, cool and comfortable, all sizes,
3s. 9d., 55., 6s. 9d. Silk Mufflers, club stripes,
2s. Gd. Under Shirts, Is., Is. Gd., 2s. Under
Pants, Is. Gd.', 2s. Gd., 3s. Gd. Youths’ Trousers,
3s. Gd., 4s. Gd. Youths’Suits, 9s. Gd., 12s. 9d.,
15s. 9d. Youths’ Shirts, Is. 3d., Is. Gd., 2s.
White Shirts, 2s. Gd., 3s. Gd. Little Roys’ Wash-
ing Suits, 2s. 9d., 3s, lid., as. Dark Blue Serge
Suits, 3s. Gd., 4s. 9d., Gs. Gd. Knicker Trousers,
only Is. 9d., 2s. Gd. Men’s, Boys’ and Youths'
Bouts at lowest rates. We send pari •••Is i»f JJ2.
carriage paid, by rail or steamer. Any of tin-
above articles may be sent by post. X. H I,,id'. >
will liud our advertisement for them on another
page.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A half-crown stamp on all records of sales
of poison is one of the little devices for raising
revenue in Maorihuid.
To such a pass had rree.rpostage come in
Tasmania that a late M.P. usW'*to frank his
washing home, during session, ta&d-send along
franked wrappers for its return.
Maoriland Leg. Council emphatically threw
out the Bill to raise the Chinese poll-tax from £lO
to £lOO. Nominee Chambers are all more or less
alike in their yearning after the cheap leprosy.
Under the last Ministry the N.S.W. un-
employed got State pay for shovelling water (at
Shea’s Creek); under the present Ministry they
get paid for shovelling sand. That is the only
difference.
Victorian : “ Things going on, in London,
over the school board, show what might occur
here. A third of the teachers refuse to give the
prescribed Bible lesons, and are told it will stop
their promotion.”
The slangwhanging of ex-Premier Shiels
by his one-time press employer smacks of ingrati-
tude. Shiels, in his time, tried to be a loyal
minion to the Protectionist journal. True, he
was an absurdly feeble minion, but he couldn’t
help that.
The Vic. Assembly has passed the mini-
mum-wage for factories, and if anything could
have stopped it, it was the man who moved the
proposition. Gray, M.P. for Prahran, is, and
perhaps dserves to .be, the most unpopular man in
the House.
The Speaker, a serious London jour-
nal : “We desire to see local supplementary
navies owned by the colonies and manned
and officered by the colonists. Such a squadron
would be a help in war-time and in peace would
train the colonists in the duties of self-defence—
duties which no body of Englishmen would depute.
We do not care to see the colonists, as it were,
hiring British ships at so much per ton per annum
to guard their shores.” Australia is indeed low
down when a British publication flouts it with
not being able to look after ,ft; elf.
The covert enemies u.
the new (Vic.) Factories Bill
piously and philanth topi-
cally oppose the anti-Chinese
features of the measure with
the argument that John is
an inferior animal whom
“ the sturdy British work-
man” simply despises as a
competitor. Strangely
enough, these arguments
were never used in opposi-
tion to measures for the
destruction of the rabbit,
and yet the rabbit is also an
inferior animal, and has
many characteristics in com-
mon with Ah Sin. Possibly
Fat Man’s admiration for
the “sturdy British work-
man,” who is willing to
“ have it out with ” the
yellow man, arises from the
fact that whilst the two are
fighting ior the bone it is so
easy for him to annex all the
meat.
One provision of the
Vic. Malle Bill is that no
single owner shall hold more
than 1920 acres of mallee
land, and if a larger area
comes into his hands by in-
heritance or foreclosure of
a mortgage or otherwise, he
must, within five years, sell
sufficient to bring his estate
down to the 1920 acre limit.
This is a straight attempt to
prevent the accumulation of
big estates in the new coun-
try, and providing the
measure gets through the
Council it will be a most in-
teresting experiment. If it
succeeds the same provision
will almost in evitably be
applied sooner or later
throughout Victoria, and
the days of huge landlords
will be brought to a sudden
end.
DROUGHT .
“ 'Ad any breakfast this mornin'?”
"Norrer drop!"
it is astonishing what little hold
Separation has on some Northern Democrats.
Apparently incapable of comprehending how
vitally inseparable are the two principles of Demo-
cratic Government and Home Rule, they entirely
neglect to use a lever which, properly handled,
might have upset the Boodlewraith long ago.
The perpetual-leasehold clauses in the
Mai lee Bill last week transmitted to Victorian
Council provide for vermin-destruction, proper
fencing-, resumption by State on compensation,
fixing of rent by a board every 10 years at 2 per
cent, on unimproved land value. A reasonable
administration of these clauses should establish
the best land system in the world.
Frank Cotton, M.P. , regards non-fiscal
Australian Federation as “sheer cant:” “lam
a Federationist because I am a Freetrader.” And
Cotton is a Freetrader because he is a Single-
taxer, As one might say —“ lam a Trinitarian
because I am a Unitarian.”
Arthur Hunter Palmer, of Queensland, is
the only layman in Australia entitled to take the
place of a Governor when that individual resigns
or leaves the territory. And Griffith is the only
Chief Justice not possessed of the right of succes-
sion in such circumstances.
Major-General Hutton’s retirement has
given Premier Reid an opportunity of stating
that he does not favor the importation of Imperial
officers for the command of the N.S.W. forces.
But wait till Gov. Hampden arrives ! Govern-
ment House influence has been always directed
towards the absolute control by Imperial officers
of armed Australia, and Hampden in particular
has, long before he thought of coming here, urged
not only that the highest military office should
be filled by a British official, but that every militia
regiment in Australia should be commanded by a
man brought up at the heart of the empire.
McLean, hon. member of Vic. Cabinet*
raised the plea in the House that a universal lease-
hold system would mean universal robbery of the
State. The idea that the whole population would
find an advantage in repudiating their obligations
to the State, means, at the very worst, that the
people would pay themselves nothing. The whole
population being the creditor of each unit in the
matter of rent is a democratic ideal. The oppor-
tunity for all the population to oppress all the
units is an opportunity for a blessed form of des-
potism. At present, a few of the units oppress all
the rest of the population.
Hughes, Neild and other N.S. Wales
M’sL.A., in stipulating for proportional repre-
sentation in the Federal convention, go against
the one opinion which has been consistently held
by Australian Federationists since the question
was first raised. Even in Deas Thomson’s scheme
of 40 years ago each province was given an equal
number of delegates, although N.S.W. at that
time extended to the Gulf of Carpentaria, and
the population of South Australia was about the
same as that of Surry Hills to-day. Deas Thom-
son gave N.S.W., Victoria, S. A. and Tasmania
three members each, and the principle of the Reid
scheme, which gives ten each, is the same.
One of the strongest currents of opinion
set against Federation is noiselessly directed by
prominent officials in the public service of the
various provinces. The conviction of these is
that, under a Federation, the salaries of officials
in the individual States will be reduced, the signs
of the times all pointing to the unlikelihood of the
Federation paying its officers at increased figures.
Just as the bulk of the members of the various
Parliaments know that the Federal Parliament
will depress them to an almost aldermanic insig-
nificance, so the bulk of civil servants resH :
Federation their depression to the rank of borough
officials. A few civil servants will, of course,
expand into the higher sphere, but those who are
left behind will suffer manifest disadvantages.
For some time The Bulletin has con-
tinued to. call on Tory politicians and papers to
prove their good faith about the minimum- wage
principle. “ Protection is bad for the people, and
the minimum-wage is bad for the people—combine
these two (or three) evils and destroy them,” said
The Bulletin, or words to that effect. The
Argus some time since responded to this appeal,
and last week M'Kenzie and others of the same
species announced their conversion in Vic.
Assembly. Let the protective industries com-
plete their bargain, said M'Kenzie. So the whole
minimum wage was adopted for the Upper House
to maul if it dare. Protection may keep em-
ployment and wealth in a country, but it cannot
effect proper distribution of these advantages.
Protection is not the be-all and end-all of any
democratic creed. Oxygen is worse than useless
to put out a fire, and hydrogen has the same dis-
advantage ; but used together as water they form
the chief stand-by of every fire-brigade. The fire
that burns up the prosperity of the people needs
more than one element to subdue it.
AND NOW THEY DON’T SPEAK.
MISS GUSHER: “It was very good of you , Mr. Highroller, to name your yacht
after me. What is she like? ”
MR. HIGHROLLER: “ Well, she’s not much to look at, dontcherknow, but she’s
very fast.”
In all probability an attempt will be made
Before the end of the session to overturn the
arner Ministry in Victoria, with the futile
M‘lntyre and the vacillating Shiels as the figure-
heads of the movement. If these two shadows
totter into power they ought to furnish the
most lamentable Ministry on record. Neither of
them can even lie down in his political policy
without holding on to something.
Henry Copeland’s proposal to represent
ecclesiasticism in the Federal Convention has
earned for him, in certain quarters, a reputation
for an excess of diplomatic cunning. Yet, if < one
good turn deserves another, the Anglican and R.C.
prelates ought to affectionately remember him
on the Convention polling-day, and who, in that
event, stands a better chance of being one of the
great Ten ?
The Vie. im-
porting ring
loudly claimed
the late J.B-Pat-
terson as a Free-
trader because,
having no fixed
convictions o f
any kind, he
latterly drifted
into preaching
low tariff in the
hope that it
would yield
more revenue.
The Murray
Smith crowd
assert, in fact,
that Castle-
maine has been
ret urn.ing a
Freetrader i n
the person of
Patterson for
many years past
—and yet it
hasn’t the nerve
to put up a Free-
trade candidate
to contest the
dead leader’s
pocket borough.
If there is any
sure Freetrade
seat in Victoria,
according to the
gas of the Smith
party, it should be Oastlemaine, yet the certainty
there, apparently, isn’t worth going for.
F. : Madden, the prize jingo, lately raised
the foreign invasion howl some more, tak-
ing the riotous Russian for his bogey. The
depth of design in these displays of voluble
information on military subjects is all in keeping
with the Madden family’s, ambition to have the
first Australian peerage in its own circle. Who
is interested in keeping the Russians away ? The
property-hold-ers in Melbourne and Sydhey and
the banks. The bombardment of Melbourne and
Sydney would, do little real harm. Sydney wants
rebuilding, and Melbourne has too much office
accommodation as it is. The blockade of Sydney
and Melbourne would interfere with the export
trade, but that is the affair of the British creditor.
The democracy is not much interested in the
Russian invasion." 1 - In fact, the job of rebuilding
a razed city is the very thing that is wanted,
and a Russian entry into Melb., considered as a
spectacle, would give the Brassey affair 2000 yards
in a mile and win.
At the last Woman Suffrage meeting at
Junee (N.S.W.), the proceedings began and ended
with prayer. The Labor Electoral League, under
whose auspices business was conducted, is, taking
its members all round, a significant blend of deri-
sive atheism and sanctimonious snuffl ■.
Attorney-
General Pat
Buckley has
refused the
proffered
Mao r ilan d
Judgeship,
owing to vio-
lent and con-
tinuous bleed-
ingatthenose.
Buckley has
lost so much
vital fluid that
his condition
is serious, and
the trouble
may breakout
again at any
time, so that,
if he were ele-
vated to the
bench, his nose
would proba-
bly begin to
bleed -on the
depositions.
According to
a stupid and
corrupt sys-
tem, the At-
torney - Gene-
ral, however
unfit he may
be, has the
first claim on
a vacant judge-
ship; and
Buckley, with
his fluffiness of
mind, and his
harmless de-
sire to please
u „ u
every bod y,
and his rever-
ence for rank
and pedigree,
would make
the most un-
finished and
feebly good-
humored
Judge imagin-
able.
Be the whisky ads. on the Yic. postcards,
says the Australasian
The sight of Mr. J. W. Hunt, of the Victorian Alliance,
writing to Mr. Longmore on a card covered with invita-
tions to try strong drink, is calculated to call up a smile
even upon the grim face of Mr. Higgins.
But suppose, instead of writing to Mr. Longmore,
he goes to see him by a railway which, to keep it
going, has to be subsidised to the extent of
.£350,000 a year out of the public revenue, which
is largely a drink revenue, said subsidy being
necessary because Mr. Hunt, when he goes to see
Mr. Longmore, is carried below cost price. Isn’t
that a ease in which Mr. Hunt, of the Vic.
alliance, reaps a direct benefit out of the Der-rink
Curse ? And isn’t that also calculated to call up
a smile on the face of Mr. Higgins ?
PROOF.
MERTIE : “ The simpleton actually asked me to marry him. Isn't he a fool?"
GERTIE : “ Sure."
The current occupation up North U
“ proving you’re alive.” If you’re out of town a
day the Boodle wraith at once strikes you off the
Electoral Roll, and forwards you an intimation
that you are dead. Then you have to prove the
CQntrary. The job is a lot barker than it looks. __


English'were tohahed on briefly,
ftifd Lord, Hampden a list of consti-
tuencies which be represented in the Com-
mods between 1868 to 1885, it is a coin-
Jddence ihot he . was in office with Mr.
yladwtone' wfrm the telegram came f rom
Syaney offering to sand the Australian con-
tingent to, the Soudian. that; mdife
than anything else/’ skid' hje Excellency,
**as what 4eterm,insd fee" to- accept the
nfcaJtltm,of Governor .of NewiSouth .yfaiefe.
%■„
. v
The “Citizen” says that it has had a
short interview with Colonel Gerard Smith,!
and, from the broad views which he ex-
pressed on this occasion, it feels.convinced
ms advent „to the Governorship will •be
fraught with the greatest advantages to
oIo f njr - . H e "brings to bear upon his
important position a commercial experience
20 y« ars - and while he is not, to
* hl ® «wn words, a man with a mission,
and will not cram his views down cither
people e throats, he will freely give his ad-
vlce when asked for ia the colony.
ip3 fay c ?-//«ar
jfZ l/a/CP of /fit*
Cjt'/cf afaty
fy?arf'/&'Zyf?
/ff ?/Mr <s%'?, a/ ?Z
yZer - fefc
'ufyf*": ■
/r%/s*y
gd
, V'l'
Cr '
, ■•> vv^
<fy^3r
*l?'
A PECULIAR; WHIM.
MELBOURNE, Monday.—The late Mr.
John Hore, cf Orrong-road, Caulfield, left
«al property in Victoria valued at £29,000.
‘Pro-testator:b«me*y»ed ,£25 te-the Roinut
Catholic Church at' Albury, but if . th»
for ,, the dead Is not read within
+2f ?°.H r after the reception of his body
“ft- ,“ le I n the , bluest Is to bo void. and
wr*? l 6rvlco of tbe Church oh Bn®,
land is to bo read, and the body buried
™ 1 „ rlghts o£ tb& Church of
England. The bulk of the estate is divided
amongst the relations of the deceased
/JoUju d&- ‘f
ADELAIDE, .Monday .—There is at pp&.
sse5 sen * ' n tbe Adelaide Hospital a man whose 1
Whole skin lias changed by natural process' 1
from the deepest brown to a lighter color
than that of the ordinary European.
The man
Is a native of Mauritius, hut ho is of Goa-
nese extraction. Till five years ago deep’
Brown was his color, when a white spot
began to appear on his forehead, and gra-
dually spread until the whole of his body
Became -white./" •• • • -
fa/iS/fo?(tides' &<z/& /?/&$*
Sx/t/r/y 0/* /£/?&#/{ / "
tyy/' /%(£- J&O**'
~d£du( #tcci£*t* &**>
'° jf -
75% '" „ ~.
?&, s^-z^j^r;
\ eP<yf
zzz^'* 3
GENERAL BOOTH AT THE NORTH POLE-AND OTHER MATTERS.


m m ii t
MQRI&ULJURRL
xvn
iNEITIN C POM
s*S? e * t "’ n
a do^ ecU
OUR GUNBOATS BVNS.
fadnot mou.jz/'/Aesz guns in <*
' UrorA at 7a/-t /l/e/tgi
7T/T Souy/aocZ
W" , ,
/>*/ Clcif
~7*/-Aafis /4a 7?>e loztr 7)e/> —r—
cts/rfa/- ??7 ore ” i^~ol & .
Town hrlu
Y(7m IVI£N b
(f w/?' 5 T I
,r, W° r .
VICTOR'** 1
all inNCe
BlBLE-
chri^' rN
cHUfiCH■
jjflPTlX
i»*j
m b s tc^
reS
Dnucvrtfy
* F I
Teiu/ffi- 1 j
/A/s
UrA/fr
ss /ba. iseol //? y// e „ C£
•' I
/O S
Pot A
You
; /IRE.
$OlN(j TO SHEOM
Bf h/are!
lf
'7/isgu/tfr'
fg
f/\. LOWERS- tV'R RC^-
us /t/?aur /4fo. /£/v? es-
fo uc- A. ecZ,
. w u
K
« . _ > }
e Jp>lJu^ ed
. A
'tT V C“*
ys 01
*** . *>-
***<>,
'<. t
Ca,i-dt ft CA-
would bo gW if
members of the Governm eat and members
of Parliament ■would.gothrough theustreet
ou Saturday mght> about II v o’plpck
and see the young girls f»<ia
the public houses burning but.
It was to be hbpeii that the. de-p'irrmo'n.-
would pub Q»wn the ’curd* 99 sp*esdilv as
possible.
y /Z* I*' 1 *' eS* t//s a ytfmsanJ
C& awees /r
OK*~ TXc^
e /V 7^/6 "
Sa.Ua.f- taj-UA.
G-iitf-afi %>a.t-.
A
~ / //'
to'
d 4
ffl&Z’M «./•_' J» «• A es-e c/ct nr <* rt Ao W <*sr 7 J rfT
?'^s-et, A 6/e. / i>recL'*f>o-n& /fyZ-ut. As*e./v U/is tT,',r <,
V/6 e /? ot,'/o/-c7e/- <?/ ? *'
MELBOURNIANA.


AM AT PR PHOTOGRAPHY.
K
The Kangaroo gazed in astonishment mild,
At the Man and the Camera blended !
The Bull with the focussing cloth got wild ;
And the Artist’s career was ended.
The moral’s as plain as the moon at its full—
Don’t put up your Sticks till you’re sure there’s no
SEND FOR CATALOGUES POST FREE.
BAKER and ROUSE,
875 Gourde Street, Sydney ; 260 Collins street, Melbourne ; 81 Queen Street, Brisbane ; 69 Handle
Street, Adelaide; 72 Collins Street, Hobart. Agencies at Perth and Fremantle, W.A.
X
Queensland on receipt of P. 0.0, or Stamps, 5/6. '
28/6 per Half-Dozen. To measure—ln ordering,
state height, size of collar and chest measure.
Write for Patterns.
PIKE BEOS., Brisbane.
SOFT CANVAS SHIRTS
FOR STATION WEAK. Unshrinkable
and almost Indestruotible. Price, 5/- each.
Sample Shirt Delivered Free to any part of
df
I*'
Edinburgh
Tlie Oldßlervd .
WMsfcy
o[ tKe
DIRECT fttOM D,ST^ L m
ALWAYS THE SAME, PUftC. HCIIPV
* L \*AIUIUJ) SCOTCH HAUT
Personal Items.
The recent marriage of a statesman renders
inconsolable (so goes the story) a local policeman.
Rev. H. Gainford, of Parramatta Congre-
gational Church, is the fir'St to adopt the Yankee
fashion of a separate communion-cup for each
communicant. He fears the deadly microbe.
Jacob Montefiore, who died in England
Nov. 7, aged 9£, was the last survivor of the
original memlvers of the S.A. Association formed
in 1834 to bring about the colonisation of S.A.
It was 50 years on 26th Oct. last since
Hori Grey, after completing his terra as Governor,
sailed from Adelaide to Maoriland to begin his
first period of administration in that province.
At Gov. Brassey’s levde, Austria, France,
Russia and Germany were each represented by
one consul. But the black republic of Liberia
was represented by three consuls in circus uni-
form.
Capt. Guise, aide-de-church to Beeronet
Buxton, is as pious as his principal. On the pas-
sage of the Austral from London the Governor
read the lessons in the saloon, and the aide-de-
church went down to the third-class to preach.
Trenwith, the Yic. Labor leader, goes to
England, at the end of the session, to be treated
for cataract. He is now quite unable to read any-
thing, even with the most powerful glasses. It is
curious and pathetic that the two men who, in
the present session, have made the greatest strides
as debaters and political leaders, should both be
blind Trenwith in the Labor corner, and
M'Kenzie among th- Country party.
That old iden-
tity. W. B. Man-
tel!, M.L.C., who
lately died at the
age of 75, arrived in
Maoriland 55 years
ago, and was long
conspicuous in local
politics. To him
belongs the distinc-
tion of being the
boss land-speculator
of the century.
When Maoriland
was a Crown colony
he “bought” from
the natives thirty
million acres for
.£5OOO less than
one-sixth of a far-
thing per acre ! The
purchase was cou-
pled with certain
“concessions,”
which the natives
never received, and
the Secretary of
State refused to
ratify the wholesale
spoliation. Mantell
was distinguished
chiefly for his Joe
Millerisrns. It was
he who, going into
Bellamy’s and see-
ing Vogel in the act
of devouring a salad
remarked, “ How
doth the gentle Jew
descend upon the
green and tender
herb!”
Dr. Atkinson,
of Bendigo, is one
of the richest Vic-
torians. He has
been married six
times. A palmist
lately prophesied
that his present wife
would survive him
—not unlikely, see-
ing that he is close
on four-score,
though still hale
and hearty. His
station property is
considerable, and he
is a plucky mining-
speculator. He at-
tends hundreds of
lodge-patients and their big families for .£1 each
yearly, and has been seldom known to miss a 55.-
fee board-meeting. He has no time to drink or
smoke.
The Anglican beats the R.C. Church -in
the race for the first Australian-born bishop.
Cardinal Moran lias been hurrying affairs in that
direction lately, but the consecration of Rev.
“Jack ’’ Stretch at Melbourne makes first goal.
Gov. Brassey has two married daughters.
“Little Muriel,” of the Sunbeam, is now Lady
Cantelupe, daughter-in-law of Lady Delaware,
whose family takes root in a mediaeval George
Dean who tried to poison his uncle and bene-
factor.
The death (in England) is announced of
Mrs. J. Evelyn Liardet, who long resided in Ber-
rima, where her husband was C.P.S. under the
old regime. Mr. Liardet is a son of Liardet of
Liardet’s Beach, Victoria —the name by which
Saudridge was so long known.
There is quite a colony of Australians in
sleepy old Bruges, Belgium, where living is cheap.
Ex-Brigade-Major (or Colonel ?) Christie; ex-
Oouuty Court Judge Quinlan, late of Victoria;
the Camerons, of Tasmania ; Pearce, of Muswell-
brook or Singleton ; and others.
S.A. political amenities. Premier King-
ston to Grainger, M.P. : “You hit a blind man
with a stick from behind.” Grainger to King-
ston You presented Baker with a pistol that
would not go off.” Kingston to Grainger : “Your
remarks are only fit for a lying-in home.” And
so on.
A prisoner charged, before Q. Juflge Cooper
pleaded, in mitigation, that he forged a cheque
“after having had 17 or 19 whiskies before break-
fast.” His Honor: “Come now, you don’t
expeot me to believe that. I know something
about drinking myself.” There are no frills, even
on the Supreme Court, up North.
The Vic. Government is disappointed at
the failure of the King of Siam to purchase its
superfluous gunboats. His Majesty of Siam is,
by the way, an amphibious potentate who spends
most of his time, during the hot season, in a
specially-constructed glass pavilion, fitted with
air-pipes, at the bottom of a great tank in the
'palace gardens.
Dr. G. F. Belcher, of Dunedin, M.L., is
an even more uncompromising champion of Greek
and Latin study than Dr. Harris, late headmaster
of King’s School, Parramatta. Dr. B. actually
presented to the Australasian Association for the
Advancement of Science a paper on “ The Middle
Verb in Latin,” a thing whose existence very few
University men have ever heard of.
Old John M‘lntyre, the new leader of
Vic. Opposition, is 62, and almost the only thing
that can be said of him is that he was once a
chemist at Bendigo. He will probably be elbowed
out by-and-bye by the meteoric Shiels —if there
really is such a person. The curse of both
MTntyre and Shiels is that nobody really seems
quite certain if there is either of them.
Lord Hampden (says an Adelaide inter-
viewer) is in appearance the most thoroughbred
Governor that Sydney has welcomed for several
years. A figure above middle height, slight and
well-built, with very small hands and feet, a low
ON THE MUTTON TRACK,
WHALER : "I want some rations, please, missis.”
MRS. JUMBUCK : “ We have given so much away lately, we are short
ourselves, I must refuse.”
WHALER : “ Well, I’ve walked ten mile out of me road. Why the h-
don’t you advertise? ”
voice, well modulated, and the pleasant and easy
manners of a man of the world. He looks as though
he took life, easily and had always thoroughly
enjoyed himself. His hair is grey, and his fore-
head is bald. His face wears a rather bored ex-
pression until be speaks, when it lights up with
a pleasant smile.
A Maoriland paper tells this story about
Mantell, the lately deceased politician :
A thoroughfare in Wellington, in the olden time, was
known to the Maoris by a peculiar appellation which,
being anglicised, meaneth “ SanguiiKuy Ass-street.” It
was subsequently called Bowen - street. An English
tourist, hearing the story of the earlier name of the street,
asked’Mantell how it came to be .altered to Bowen-street.
Mantell, with a far-away look in his eye, replied : “ Out of
compliment to the Queen’s representative, but the senti-
ment implied in the name still remains the same.”
The well-beloved and brainy District Court
Judge Paul should by rights have succeeded
Judge Harding on Qi Supreme Court bench. But
his habits as a Bohemian raconteur are too well-
known, and “Sir Samuel” for the second time
decided that he “lacked the requisite dignity.”
As a hypnotist of undoubted powers, Paul has
exceptional opportunities of dealing successfully
with criminal cases. He is the author of the
First Offenders’ Act, which has already liberated
something over,a hundred juvenile criminals. It
was Judge Paul who, at Roma, once undertook to
hear—in the absence of an interpreter—an accused
Chinaman in his own defence. “ Man—yan—
yani—mok—a—hi—la—she—kor—she—Junee—a
—ma —mok—an —koy they John began
fluently. “Not so fast, please,” said Paul gravely
—pretending to take notes, “ I’m not a short-
hand writer.” Case dismissed.
Hon. Mrs. Candy (mother of the Du hess
of Newcastle) was one of the first women to visit
the White Feather and Kalgoorlie. She lately
sold a “show’’called the Paddington for a good
figure and an interest to a London co. Mrs.
Candy is a first-class whip, and drives a spanking
pair of cobs tandem in the stre< N of Perth.
“ Here Batman, the Foun-
der of Melbourne, built his
house,” is inscribed on the
Mutual Provident edifice, cor-
ner William and Collins streets.
A continual eyesore to three or
four survivors of the identities,
who maintain that Fawkner was
founder of Melbourne. His
original cottage, the real first,
stood behind the Union Club
Hotel, formerly the Shake-
speare, corner Collins and Mar-
ket streets, and wasonly knocked
down a few years ago.
The story of Bill Ryan,
Bill, a storekeeper out Croydon
(Q.) way, was the local Her-
cules. One day a certain blocky
little politician (now in Westra-
lia) filled with real Mackay,
waited upon Mrs. Ryan and
spoke contumeliously of her
husband. “ He’ll bate yer,”
said Mrs. “I’ll go and
punch hitn in the eye,” replied
the politician. “Just you do,”
said Mrs. Ryan. The politician
went and did —he sailed up to
the great, big, good-natured
William and without warning
p ugged him right in the eye.
“Ye little baste!” said Bill
Ryan, catching him by the slack
of the trousers and the back of
the neck, and rubbing his nose
on the ground—“Ye would,
would ye ! ” Nor did William
stop until he had rolled the
politician’s nose flat and torn all
his clothes off. A couple of
weeks afterwards the politician
was able to get out of doors
again and met Mrs. Ryan in the
street. “Oi persave,” said Mrs.
Ryan, looking at his nose, “that
you did go to see my Bill.”
Dr. F. T. West Ford died in London on
Melb. Cup day. He was one of the most esteemed
of the Collins-street Forty, rival of Tracy, Mother-
well, Beaney, Gillbee, Martin, Barker, and the
rest. Though hardly so popular as any of the
set named, he was an eminently safe man, who
had a lucrative clientele, and studied diligently as
the years went mu
Dur i n g
last election
campaign, a
N. S. Wales
M.L.A. call-
ed at an out-
station near
the Q. border
for dinner,
and, after
badly worry-
ing the mut-
ton and dam-
per, started
to cut into
the “ duff.”
At his second
helping, how-
ever, his knife
s t o p p e d—
s o in e t h i u g
unusual had
been struck.
Then the cook
(an Irish
gentleman)
bounded for-
wa r d and
yelled ‘Shure,
it’s me dis-
hcloth that’s
got into the
damn pud-
din’. I’ve bin
lookin’ fur it
all the morn-
in’. I wanted
to wash it.”
Here the
statesm au’s
appe t i t e
“ gave out.”
At Napier
(M.L.) Agri-
cultural show
Gov. Glasgow
got into a pen
to admire a
stupendous
shorthorn
bull at close
quarters, and
the bull pick-
ed him up on
its horns and
promptly
slung hi m
over the fence.
He would
probably have
been seriously
bumped
against the
top rail, only
the guberna-
torial wesket lure up beneath the strain, and
the .owner dropped off. Result : a discomposed
Governor on the floor outside, and a bull inside
with half a waistcoat impaled on his horns.
Dear Bulletin, — You missed the choicest
chunk of Fitz Gibbon’s poem :
With a kindly heart and an able hand,
And wisdom extracted from sea and land,
United with loveliness, charm, and grace,
To stand in our Sovereign Lady's place,
We welcome them all from the Sunbeam.
The bard’s reference to Queen Victoria in connec-
tion with the word “We” is an interesting
feature of his diabolical trenzy. —D.A.M.
Read The Bulletin’s History of the Dean
Case. 20 pages, full BuLLETIN-size. Price, fid.
Gov. Brassey will perchance make a big
gift to Melb. University, possibly a building to
balance Wilson Hall in the present architectural
scheme. Those “ in the know ” whisper this mean-
ingly, knowing that Lord B. came here as a
stepping-stone to something big in the Gov.-
General line, also a rise in Ahe peerage.
Photo. ly Bettini.
PRINCE LUIGI, of Savoy, now visiting Australia in the
Italian warship, Cristoforo Colombo.
S.G.: “ Nearly all obituaries of the late
Prof. Huxley mention that his wife was a Sydney
lady, that it was a case of love at first sight, that
seven years elapsed between betrothal and mar-
riage. But no obituary I have seen gives her
maiden name ; neither does ‘ Chambers’s Encyclo-
pedia ’ (article revised by Huxley) nor his auto-
biography. The fact is* curious, for the lady
THERE IS A COOLNESS EVER SINCE.
MISS SIXTEEN : "How old do you think I am?"
MR. THOUGHTLESS (counting) : "Forty love."
possesses much literary talent, is a true poei
(Huxley’s epitaph itself is from her pen), and has
made many admirable verse-translations from
Goethe and others. Who was the lady in the
courtship days? ”
Some glaring recent incongruities re chemi-
cal analysis recall to a BuLLETiN-man an English
(Leicester) case, wherein a sample of coffee was
taken from a local grocer to the local analyst, who
certified to adulteration with roast acorns. The
grocer, however, had a sample analysed from the
sauie lot. The result was that it proved to be
pure, and the public analyst lost his appointment.
Every important analysis should be checked.


STEWART DAWSON & CO., MANUFACTURERS,
Diamond Merchants, Jewellers, Silversmiths.
The Latest London Designs for Wedding and Birthday Presents.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S WATCHES,
Gold and Silver. Celebrated Everywhere.
BEST TIMEKEEPERS, UNEQUALLED VALUE AND QUALITY, ALL GUARANTEED.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S DIAMONDS.
Pure White only admitted into Stock.
Diamond Bings, Diamond Hearts, Diamond Lockets, Diamond Brooches.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S SILVERWARE.
Elegant Novelties from all Leading Makers.
Tea Sets, Coffee Sets, Afternoon Sets, Trays, Toilet Requisites, Bon-Bon Dishes, &c.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S JEWELLERY.
Everything that is New and Beautiful.
UNAPPROACHABLE VARIETY, UNEQUALLED VALUE, NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROEITS.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S ELECTROPLATE.
Best Makes, and Only the Best.
WONDERFUL SELECTION OF INEXPENSIVE NOVELTIES FOR TROPHIES.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S ESTABLISHMENT.
Most Artistic Sight in Australasia.
First in Elegance, First in Business Besources, First in Popularity.
JUST PUBLISHED, OUR NEW PAMPHLET OF ELEGANT LONDON SPECIALTIES, A COPY OF WHICH WILL BE SENT POST PAID ON APPLICATION TO S.D. and CO., SYDNEY
Note —Each article hein* Government Hall-marked or Stamped, the Quality is Guaranteed. Oar Prices save Cash to every Purchaser. We despatch Goods Daily, post paid, and take all risk in transit,
Stewart Dawson & Co., 412 Georg e-street and Strand Arcade , Sydney, N.S.W.
I-ROSSA'RDS
| WIRA TMHE
(£?°
OGAKS
/V\ | Lt* AHS>
j-'RAGRA M
T»AV "T H feM ? j
" The Keystone of Australian Federation. "
The Premiers have agreed that FROSSARD'S CAVOUR CIGARS (in packets of 8 for 1s.) are to remain the national smoke of Australia.


DR. MAFFEY has REMOVED to Elmley
House, 151 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
PRIZE SPANIELS FOR SALE. —Bronze-
by champion Staley Bean, imp. ;
Prairie Pride, by champion Jack Obo, imp. ; also
14 Puppies by Black Tracker. R. ANDERSON,
Perambulator Factory, 43 Broadway, Glebe, Syd.
%
THE DEVIL IN SYDNEY;” or
BARMAIDS, BALDHEADS, MASH-
ERS, &c. Illustrated. Is. 2d. New Ed.
of “The Ballet Girl,” 32 extra pages, Is.
each post free. Liberal terms to the trade. Anglo-
Australian Pub. Co., 331 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
AH;
Designed
Displayed
and Electrotyped B v us
gd
IN
TIP-TOP
STYLE
F. T. UIIIDBCG S CO.
EXPERTS IN
Advertisement Display
87 Clarence-st., Sydney.
TRY US
One
[J LAND’S
fg
d
bF
<2#
Mum
35, New Oxford St., LONDON, W.C.
Boxes of Tricks, 4/-, 7/9, 13/6, to £lO.
Boxes of Puzzles, 4/-, 7/9* >3/6, 27/-, and 69/-.
Boxes of Card Trices, 4 /-, 7/9. '3/6, 25/-, & 47/3*
Shade wgraphy (as performed by TreweyJ, with
apparatus complete, 5/-.
Book on Chapeaugraphy, or Heads under one
Hat, 1/3. . . , , ~ . .
Novelties in Conjuring Tricks from 6d. to £5O.
Grand Illustrated Catalogue, 6d. Supplement ot
Novelties id. All the above sent Post Free.
T H E
BAN
Incorporated by RoyS” Charter, 1835).
Paid-up Capital - - ' - - -
Reserve Fund - - - - -
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter -
UST R A
- £1,600,000
800,000
1,600,000
L AS I A
£4,000,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT of the Directors, with the Accounts for the Half-year to 15th April, 1895, presented to the
Proprietors at the Half-yearly General Meeting, held on Thursday, 3rd October, 1896.
BEPOET.
The directors submit to the proprietors the balance-sheet of the bank as at 15th April last, with the profit account
for the half-year ended on that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for income tax, for colonial taxes on
note circulation, and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £40,854 2s. The
addition of £9641 os. 4d. brought forward from the previous half-year gives a disposable balance of £50,495 2s. 4d., of
which the dividend declared will absorb £40,000, leaving £10,495 2s. 4d. to be carried forward to the next account.
It is with regret that the directors'have to report that during the half-year to which the accounts relate the state
of business in the colonies was such as to seriously restrict advances and to diminish exchange profits. Since the close
of the half-year there has been a considerable recovery in the value of wool, and reports from the colonies indicate a
growing belief that the extreme point of the depression has been passed.
The bank’s business in Western Australia continues to progress, and confidence is felt in the future gold-production
of that colony. Further branches of the bank have been opened at Mensdes and Kalgoorlie.
To the very great regret of the directors, Mr. Edward Hamilton, the senior member of the board has resigned his
seat, after giving valuable and constant service as a director for upwards of thirty-live years. Mr. Charles Gipps
Hamilton is a candidate for the vacancy thus created, and the directors have much pleasure in recommending him to
the proprietors for election.
Since last meeting of the shareholders the directors have had the satisfaction of personal conference with the
superintendent, Mr. Sawers, who recently paid a visit to this country, and is now on his way back to Australia. They
feel assured that benefit will accrue to the bank’s interests from the personal interchange of views between the board
and their chief representative in the colonies.
The dividend declared is at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum, or £1 per share for the half-year, and it will be
payable, free of income tax, in London and in the colonies on the 4th of October.
E. M. NELSON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 26th September, 1895.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from OCTOBER 15, 1894, to APRIL IS, 1895.
Undivided profit, October 15, 1894 .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. £57,641 0 4
Less : Dividend, April, 1895 .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. 48,000 0 0
£9,641 0 4
Profit for the half-year to April 15, 1895, after deducting rebate on bills current
at balance date (£13,261 Is. 7d,), and making provision tor all bad and doubt-
ful debts .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £148,408 0 0
Less :
I, Charges of Management—
Colonial
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the
superintendent’s department, and 142 branches and
agencies .. .. .. .. .. £70,041 5 0
General expenses, including rent, repairs, taxes, stationery,
travelling, etc. .. .. .. .. .. 20.005 7 10
London—
Salaries .. .. .. .. ... .. 7,204 4 4
General expenses .. .. .. .. .. 2,458 12 2
£OO 700 0 4
11. Income tax .. ... £1877 19 4
111. Tax on note circulation „ .. .. .. 4207 3 4
IV. Colonial taxes on profits .. .. .. .. 1759 6 0
7,844 8 8
107,553 18 0
40,854 2 0
Leaving available for dividend
£50,495 2 4
HA LA NCE-SURET, APRIL 15, 1895.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation ..
Deposits
Bills payable, and other liabilities
.. £443,004 0 0
.. 12,699,709 0 10
.. 2,129,974 13 8
15,272,687 14 6
Capital .. ..£1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund (of which
£500,000 is invested
in 2| per cent, consols
at 95) .. .. 800,000 0 0
Profit account, un-
divided balance .. 50,495 2 4
2,450,495 2 4
£17,723,182 16J.0
R. W. JEANS, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion,’and cash balances .. £3,053,088 Oil
Loans at call and at short notice .. 1,972,000 0 0
British and colonial Government
securities .. .. .. . 520,094 13 6
£5,545,182 14 5
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets .. 11,737,763 8 8
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand, and London .. .. 440,236 13 9
£17,723,182 16 10
PRIDEAUX SELBY, Secretary. "
We have examined the cash and securit'es in London and the London books, and have verified the transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the foregoirg is a full and fair balance-
sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown by the books,
London, 13th September, 1895. WELTON JONES and CO., Auditors.
PEBDBIAU & CO.
Rubber Hose, Eureka Hose, Canvas Hose,
FOR
Gardens, Brewers, Steam, Suction,
n Etc., Etc. .
Tennis Balls, Backets, Shoes, &c.
ILLUSTRATED LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
2*70 George Street, SYDJXTEY.
B. Mountcastle «ScSons,
HELMET and HAT
George Street, SYDNEY ; and Queen Street, BRISBANE, Queensland.
1 '
S-t ’-v; *i
r&far: -i&l
: • ’•tS'j*-' -
sen
; ■
.•2
U‘s
m
iH
OF
s Patent Air-Chamber Helmet
ED AND WORM BY
the Leading Physicians
Semi -Tropica l Austra lasi a .
—i
Whi+.e Centra Helmet, 13/6.
On aid’s Patent Kapri
REGISTERED
Air-Chamber Helmet.
The heat Sun Hat ever introduced.
Perfect protection from Sunstroke,
Headache, and other ailments caused
by tropical heat.
Free by post throughout Australasia.
Covered White 21/-
Do. Drah Felt ... 21/-
SECTION,
Quaids Patent Air-Chamber Helmet,
shewing Double Air-Chamber Grown.
(arrows show current of air passing towards cone)
AUSTRAL WHEEL RACE.
MELBOURNE CRICKET GROUND.
Saturdays—3oth November and 7th December, 1895.
* H. H. MOORE, Hon. Sec,
How Women Differ.
Although “ all roads lead to Rome,” each route
has its peculiar characteristics, advantages, and
adherents. This applies equally in all phases of
life. While ladies may differ on questions as to
methods of comfort, pleasure, and enjoyment,
those who have had any personal experience to
guide them agree on one important subject: they
are unanimous in admitting that the best, shortest
route, and safest method, to ensure a prompt re-
turn to health is to have immediate recourse to
Warner’s Safe Cure whenever danger signals,
which intimate the approach of any deviation to
good health, appear. The following expression of
gratitude from a previous sufferer is enough to
guarantee satisfaction to other ladies who may
wisely decide to follow her example. She says:
“Three years ago I was suffering deeply from
some complaint which the doctors described as
acute dyspepsia, under which I was rapidly
wasting away. My appetite became fickle, and
what little I did eat was not retained on the
stomach. I was subject to dizziness, severe head-
aches, and irregular action of the bowels. From
lack of energy and want of ability to exert my-
self and increasing weakness, life became almost a
burden. Notwithstanding that various doctors
attended and prescribed I obtained no benefit,
but gradually lost in weight and strength. I be-
came in the end so reduced that a friend from
Beecliworth could scarcely recognise me. This
same person advised me to have recourse to War-
ner’s Safe Cure. Thereupon I commenced to take
it, keeping to the directions laid down in their
pamphlet. I used in all twenty-five bottles, and
during the whole time improved in health,
strength, and weight, so that by the time the last
bottle was finished 1 had recovered four stone of
my weight, and was, in fact, entirely cured.”
Mrs. Margaret Lopouple, Landlady Club Hotel,
Benalla, Viet., gives her experience in the honest
belief that it is a duty she owes her sex.*
HOW TO AVOID THE INJURIOUS
effects of stimulants. —The present system of
living—partaking of too rich foods, as pastry, sac-
charine, and fatty substances, alcoholic drinks,
and an insufficient amount of exercise—frequently
deranges the liver. I would advise all bilious
people, unless they are careful to keep the liver
acting freely, to exercise great care in the use of
alcoholic drinks, avoid sugar, and always dilute
largely with water. Experience shows that
porter, mild ales, port wine, dark sherries, sweet
champagne, liqueurs, and brandies are all very apt
to disagree ; while light white wines, and gin or
whisky largely diluted with soda water will he
found the least objectionable. ENO’S “FRUIT
SALT ” is peculiarly adapted for any constitu-
tional weakness of the liver; it possesses the
powers of reparation when digestion has been dis-
turbed or lost, and places the invalid on the right
track to health. A world of woes is avoided by
those who keep and use ENO’S “FRUIT SALT,”
therefore no family should ever be without it.
Sold by all chemists and stores.*
At Whangarei (M.L.) is a hill capped by
four curiously-shaped rooks. The largest, seen
from the east, shows a scarred but pronounced
profile of a man, like a well-tattooed Maori. The
others resemble a wahine with a child pick-a-back,
trudging in an opposite direction with two picca-
ninnies following tier. The Maoris in the vicinity
had a tradition that the largest rock was the spirit
of a famous rangatira called Mauaia, and the
other rocks were his wife and children. A mis-
sionary once attempted to ridicule this belief out
of an ancient Maori, but was met in this way :
“Maori believe in Manaia. He made of rook.
Pakeha believe in Lot’s wife. She made of salt.’’
“I ’member when Mat Lynch, then just
arrived from Ireland, ivas green—green as a frog.
Me an’ him was mates that time. One afternoon
we struck Pat Grady’s pub., toot o’ Cherrytree
Hill, ’bout 25 miles this side of Wallerawang.
After a time we goes for a stroll troo’ the orchid,
when I sights a old-man kangaroo up agin’ a
apple tree. I goes an’ borrows Grady’s rifle.
* Holy saints ! ’ sez Mat, ‘ are yer goin’ to shoot
apples off the thrae ?’ ‘ Apples, be hanged,’ sez I,
‘ there’s a kangaroo ! ’ Mat never seen a kangaroo
before—he didn’t see him then. I banged an’
just missed —then away bounded the old fellow.
Mat seen him then. ‘Well done, Mac., me frind,’
sez Mat, ‘ yer blew his two front legs off ! ! S’elp
me, Bill, if that idiot didn’t go lookin’ for them
two legs ! ” —Aloz.
The cussedness of inanimate objects again.
The road from Dunedin (M.L.) to the reservoir—
a place where the traffic, except on holidays, is
about twenty persons per day—runs for part of
the way between high steep banks. One day-
recently a young lady was passing this spot when
a boulder fell on her head and killed her. No one
remembers any falls of rock there before. On an
average, probably, there was some one underneath
that boulder for about five minutes in each 24
hours, and even then the chances of its landing right
on the head of the passer-by were, perhaps, one in
thirty or so. Yet after waiting for over twenty
years since the road was constructed this particu-
lar rock managed it. The young lady was a
stranger and had never been there before, and
the boulder had, perhaps, been waiting for that
chance since before the Pyramids were built.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
Undoubtedly the largest buyer of opals in the
rough state is H. Newman, the well-known Mel-
bourne jeweller, who has been connected with
this branch of the gem trade since its inception,
and keeps a large staff of skilled lapidaries busily
employed on these and other Australian gems.
He is also a large buyer of pearls and diamonds,
and gets through an immense quantity of Queens-
land sapphires. The firm has been established
for over 40 years, and has a reputation for straight
dealing which is sufficient guarantee to con-
signors of rough gems that they will be honorably
dealt with. The establishment is still at the old
spot in Elizabeth-street, right opposite the Post
Office, and is well worthy of a visit of inspection.*
From time to time there has been talk in
N.S.W. judicial circles about abolishing juries.
Now the public talks openly of abolishing indivi-
dual Judges and insisting upon all important
criminal trials being held before two Judges
instead of one.


IROBERTS’
Are a Sovereign Remedy for
Bruises,
Burns,
Cancer,
Cuts,
Eczema,
II
Eruptions,
Eyes Inflamed,
Fistula,
Gangrene,
Pimples,
Piles, Scorbutic Complaints, Skin Diseases
Ulcerated Legs &, Wounds of every description.
Price Is. IJd., 2s. 9d., 11s., 225. each.
Sole Proprietors,
BEACH & EARNICOTT, ltd., Bridport, ENG.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
... .
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
LthE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £<>,ooo,ooo
Faid-ur £3,843,320 15s,
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. George
Coppin, M.L.0., J.P. ; Archibald Currie, Eso., J.P. ;
Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; George Meares, Esq.,
C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk.
T. Sargood, K.0.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers; John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant; E. O. O. Howard.
London Office; 1 Sishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... „ £300,000
RESERVE LIABILITY .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND * .. 28,500
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
qiHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Ltd.
Incorporated under the “ Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital... ... ~ .. .. £4,000,000
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,544,612 17 1
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 205,387 211
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ~ „ 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Chairman, Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Vice-Chairman, A. S. King, Esq. John Grice, Esc.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Auditors; W. H. Tuckett, Esq.;
Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey Smith.
South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches throughout
South Australia. Local Directors: Caleb Peacock, Esq - .,
J.P.; John Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. 6. Addison.
New South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J, G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Okpice: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The Trustees, Executors, S Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £88,477 0 0
DIRECTORS ; E. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. 'L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estate*-, "ndertaker
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
EREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager,
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales:
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,750,000.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS since commencement of the
Society exceeds
Twenty-one Billions sterling (£31,000,000),
Being an average of a MILLION for each year of its
existence.
T. JAQUES MARTIN, General Manager.
There is much pleasant gossip in Mrs.
Paton’s “Sketches from the New Hebrides.”
The lady describes how one islander was accus-
tomed to come to church attired solely in a snow-
white vest, while another usually came with a
cotton skirt pinned round his neck. On the birth
of Mrs. Paton’s little girl the native women con-
doled warmly with the mother over the fact that
it wasn’t a boy. Herein civilised and barbarous
prejudices are again at one.
M
OIMTSERRAT
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserrat
used in i ts prod uctioh.
Sold.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
jf> ARTIFICIAL teeth.—complete
OWU (Upper and Lower) GOLD MEDAL
SETS of perfectly-fitting TEETH, £5. Mastica-
tion guaranteed. These are the BEST and
LOWEST in PRICE made compatible with com-
fort, fa thful workmanship, and natural appear-
ance of beauty. Soft plates for > ender gums. . Old
misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering
with own defective natural ones or roots. Teeth
added to plate after if wanted. Painless extrac-
tions daily by nitrous oxide or cocaine. Send for
Treatise on Teeth. Consultations free.
J. I. MARSHALL, DENTIST,
New address—2B Wynyard-square, city.
J. PARTRIDGE,
WHOLESALE MANUFACTURER
— op—
Galvanised Tinned Iron Tubs and Buckets,
Galvanised Iron Ridge-Capping ,
Guttering, Down-Pipes,
Round Galvanised Iron Water Tanks,
COLOKTIAL OVENS
AND —
TINWARE, &c.
261 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney
Banking, Public Companies, &c. v '
—THE — >
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident and Employers’ Liability Insurance at
Lowest Rates.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, 60 Market Street.
Money to Lend.
Finer HICK KEDI’CRK KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
Only Address :
74 CASTLERBAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King &, Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over —Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills-of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
“It’s Never Too kat<?
To [earn.”
f:
m
And
An Axiom in
Domestic
Economy
is, Keep
Once
Tried,
Always
Used.
a Tea
in the house.
THE PREMIER HOTEL OF AUSTRALIA.
s
y
3
THE AUSTRALIA.”
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
(Per Day)
Inclusive of all Meals and Attendance.
SINGLE ROOMS-
-12 6, 15/- & 16/-
DOUBLE ROOMS—
-25/-, 30/-, 34/- & 36/-
SUITB OF ROOMS—
-40/-, 50/- & 60 -
Special Rates to Permanent Boarders
£3 10/- PER WEEK.
Extract from Max O'Bell's Boo!,-
of Impressions on the Colonies :
“Sydney has as much right to be
proud of this hotel as her harbor.”
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Hot and Cold Water in
every Room.
J Liff hted throuyho at by
' Electricity. *
from
Fireproof Throughout. /
Wliolesale J ewellers.
Rotherham, Waltham, Erhardt’s, and
Y ▼ C I IC 11 v,. r*s • all Makes of Watches, in Stock.
Jewellery, Clocks and Electro - plate Ware.
best assorted stock in the colonies.
Wholesale Only. SEND FOR PRICE LIST to
LAZAItUS, ARONSON & CO.,
2 WYNYABD STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
‘ Plum ?
lit£'pTD
THE
‘ Plum*
/GENTLEMEN, who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
1 Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
fgd
H. HILLIER, Manufacturer & Importer
IS 5 & IS7 Sussex-street, Sydney.
The Best and Cheapest House in the Colony for Vehicles, Saddlery & Harness
ELEPTIC SPRING SULKIES (as shown), £7 15s.
SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 395. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, £6 10s
AMERICAN SULKIES, 955.
Send for a Catalogue and secure the Bargains. All Saddles Made equal to Ordered Work.
Price from 31is. 6d., complete.
The "Schoolmarster."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bush brain-driver is an absolute monarch if
firm ; if otherwise, a serf. I fought hard for the
reins.
They were wild youngsters; I left them at
Xmas ; returned to re-open on Jan. 19; it took me
three days to run 11 down, two more to bring
them in. (Liz. Kelly is out yet; I found some
of her red hair on one snare, but no further
traces).
Jim Baker was a “lad.” He “ was seein’ how
far he could throw a little stone, sir,” and laid
Tom Drummond low. I quilted Jim, Jim,
senr., quilted me ; nine stone seven cannot argue
against 13 odd. Jim held father’s coat.
Aaron turned his rod into a snake, the magi-
cians ditto ditto. Aaron’s swallowed them, and
once more became a hickory. Dan Ryan wants
to know “Did them other fellers get their sticks
back ? ”
I board at Mrs. Nolan’s. Calves and chickens
are prosaic society. She was prosaic ; lung years
of drudgery had blotted “ Romance ” from outlier
soul.
Maud was pretty—and 18. I—a “gilded-
youth ” of 19—and city-reared.
What more natural?—but Mrs. Nolan was
prosaic—and watchful.
t Scene : The Wattle-and-Dab. Tea-time. The
“ old man ” carves ; she pours out the tea. Her
chair is opposite my gum-block. (N.B. —Chairs
are scarce up here.) Silence reigns.
1 Class-supervising cultivates a special accom-
plishment, it increases one’s visual compass. I
have the table under control while fossicking that
fly out of my cup—and two pairs of furtive eyes
are embarrassing.
Desperation forces me to break the silence :
“That Durham of yours looks poor, Mr. Nolan ”
—I can talk “ cattle ” well, now, but Nolan’s
logic wins—he enjoys my discomfort.
She coughs. I translate it; our eyes meet —the
mother’s. More cough, plenty handkerchief and
heightened color.
“ What’s the matther, Mor-rd ? ”
“Hem—a—hem; I swallowed a crumb the
wrong way, mother.”
Desperation works me. “ How are your fowls,
Mrs. Nolan ? ” I’ve learned to talk “ fowl,” too.
“ Oh, thank ye, sorr, me fowls is well, but I’m
afeerd of a hawk afther me chickens.’ I collapse.
Maud was a nice girl— too good for Jim
Burnett. Elsie Burnett is my pupil now. Time
flies.
Wesfcralia.
SPRAT.


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Kiissutiussea’s advt. oil page
23 of this issue.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NE W YORK.
Established 1843.
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
The Largest and Wealthiest Life Insurance Com-
pany in the World.
Assets at date of last Official Investigation,
December 31, 1894,
£4-2,020,284.
PURELY MUTUAL
ALL PROFITS GO to the POLICY-HOLDERS.
All Modern Forms of Life Insurance.
The Popular Trust Investment Policies were
Originated by this Office.
Australian Department;
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Maanger
« u ( Victoria: 473 Ol'lins-atreet, Melbourne
Qi'fenan fncea Queensland : 116 (Jueen-»treet, Brisbane
«sgaMngffl
OTOGKCSSS
mum
0-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Prelty Stands. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. C*l.
Illustrated Price List of Korei«n and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.),
74 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY
N.S.W.
THE BILLY TEA
Is the Finest Tea ever Sold at its Price.
IT HAS A LARGER SALE THAN ANY
PACKET TEA IN AUSTRALIA.
It is Used by all Classes of the Community.
It is always the Same and Never Disappoints
The Sales Exceed a TON per DAY.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Dean’s Place, SYDNEY, Sole Proprietors.
S/ailorin
For Neat and Gentlemanly Suits yon could not possibly
do better than call and inspect the Tweeds and Suitings
shown by
R, C. HAGON,
Meuchant Tailor,
129 KINO STKEET, SYDNEY.
Only the best hands are engaged. The proprietor per-
sonally examines all suits before leaving the est blish-
inent, thus ensuring a perfect fit and good workmanship,
suits to order, for present wear, from (ill - Samples and
self-measurement forms post-free on application. Goods
Sent out by parcels post in boxes, carriage paid.
K, C. HAGON, 129 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sms has settled down permanently In Johannesburg,
Mgeneral manager of the Gaiety Co. syndicate, of South
Africa, for which a superb new theatre has been built.
The arrival in Australia of Millie. Trehelli will have the
effect of disinterring the unparalleled details of the cele-
brated prohate ctse arising out of the will of her mother,
the late Trehelli-Bet tint.
For “ am vteur ” theatricals read " immature.”
Madam • Melba, it is stated, sends to her relatives In
Melbourne her scarcely-soiled, Paris-made dresses. They
paralyse the "Block” with them.
Miss Julia Fleireltauh Wray says that her father has a
horror of seeing her in tights. Toe other evening, when
she was playing in the “Old Guard” at the Price ss’s, the
old man was silting in the front rows of the stalls. Says
Miss Wraylt was the first time he had seen me in
tights. All the time I was on he was making me signs to
turn round. 1 think he wanted to s-e if I looked any
worse that way. He looked so severe that I was glad to
get off, which I did sideways, so that he'shouldn’t s e any
more of my—well—legs than I could help.” Miss Wray
adds that the old gentl-man is gel ting many shocks in
his declining days, as her sist r is learning to ride the
bicycle and intends to wear rational costume.
It is a painful fact that, almost without exception, every
melodrama produced at Melh. Theatre Royal this year
by Ilollowav, Bland Holt, and Rignold, has contained the
convict el merit. In several pieces a realistic quarry-
s-ene, with the broad-arrow largely in the foreground,
has been a prominent feature. Royal audiences are now
observed to sit with ears bent forward straining to catch
the first clank of chains and ankle-ring*. Coppm’s house
will s mu he known as the Handcuff Theatre.
We laugh at Parkes, hut Sims Reeves marri“d one of
his singing pupils the other week. Reeves is a long way
post 70, and his wife is probably younger than the latest
Lady P. Matrimonial strength seems to lie in the hair,
for both of these aged hrid -grooms have flowing looks.
The bald-headed man is a harmless creature by com-
parison. He merely sits in the front, row' of the stalls
and wishes that one of the young ballet darlings Would
tak“ a fancy to him.
Dear Bulletin,— A "Poverty Point” par. remarks
that "It doesn't look well to s°e a mesmerist’s subjects
hanging round the stage-door.” Surely there is no longer
any Iv-lief that mesmerists’ subjects are amateur volun-
teers? The poor devils are, in almost every case, hired to
come upon the platfo m and make objects of themselves.
The “ Professor ” tests them beforehand, finds out how
he can heat use them—as singing fools, laughing fools,
acting fools, or what not—and puls them through a re-
hearsal. All the same, they are, more or le.-s, mesmerised
when they give their perform voces. A number of them
are formed into a concert-party, for instance, and the
Prof-ssor will say to each in turn, " What song will you
sing, sir?” Some of the replies suggest that the victims
hadn’t decided what they would sing before they came
ttiere, hut the "star" vocalist and most experienced sub-
ject of the lot will give the name of his song in a sulky,
suspicious way, which impliesQarn. you know what
my song is well enough.” All the same he is hypnotised,
consciously hypnotised, and he wouldn't sing half as
ridiculously if he were in a healthy stale of mind. Some-
times these fellows seem indignant against the Professor
on r-covering their senses ami perceiving their degrada-
tion, and sometimes their feeble hursts of anger are
genuine. They may have had the Pr- fessor’s promise
not to degrad - them too much. But often it is mock
anger part of the business. Ther ’a a lot of humbug
m ogled with the genuineness of such beastly "enter-
tainments.” Id's hard for an outsider to guess where the
mesmerist’s p >wer ends and the subject’s hired volition
commences. Indeed, the operator doesn't exactly know’
and tne "subject” is incapable of settling the point. In
its way it is an interesting point-beastly interesting.—
OK.
Mrs. Bancroft has been telling her love story to a
young, confiding little female periodical known as Home
Chat. Mrs B.’s narrative sounds simple, or otherwise,
just according to the readers age and knowledge of
an -ient theatrical history. She first met her Bancroft,
she says, at a Liverpool theatre, where she treated him
rather coolly, because he was reputed to be a lady-killer.
Next time she went to Liverpool she acted in several
pieces with him, and was so much impressed that she
never quite forgot him afterwards. “ When I was plan-
ning to be a manageress,” says the demure old ladv, "I
thought I couldn’t have a cleverer or handsomer young
actor in my company than he, so he was engaged ; and
then—a long lime after that, though —we were engaged.
And that is the end of the story.” Mrs. Bancroft
reminiscing of her spinsterhood and "engagement” to
B. “a long time after” is funny enough, hut not half as
droll as the noiio i of a lady-repvrler going to interview
her on the delicate subject. By the way, there is no
mention of the Bancroft fix, who hears such a strong
resemblance to the Roval family.
Chief Justice (Vic.) Madden’s daughter, Miss Daisy
Madden, who is studying singing under Marotnsi, in
Paris, is astonishing people at private functions in that
city. She has a very fine soprano, and Marches! thinks
much of her. Critics who have heard her say th it if she
adopted the stage as a profession she would be hound to
make a great reputation. But she is only taking up
singing as a superior accomplishment.
Courtice Pounds signed for six months with the Firm.
Melb.: “Again I find the inconceivable snobbery o £
one man being Esquire on a concert programme, and
another Mr., but, of course, the Mr. is the cad.”
London papers are rather hvslerical in their praise of
Forbes Robertson’s Rnneo. “It is difficult to be young
enough to look like Romeo, and experienced enough at
the sime time to play the part. But Mr. R’bertson com-
bines the requirements. In a word, he is Romeo. The
part has probably never been so well played within the
memory of the oldest playgoer ” —and so on. Robertson
is almost as old as Kj’rle Bellew, and not so youthfully
gushing. Terri-», a more gallant-looking hero than either
of these, was a capital Romeo at five-and-lwenty.
Clown Harry Payne, the last survivor of the Payne
pantomimids, died the other day. The Yokes family
also is extinct, but some of the Lauris remain on earth,
The fame of the Lviris and Paynes will certainly live as
long as Gilbert’s Bali Bdlads, because the Bishop of Rum-
ti-Foo, before sailing forth to his savage see, took lessons
in “ the Payne and Liuri feat." And, in another ballad,
he educated his flick tip to the new style of dancing—
“for he thought the choicest fruits of progress ought to
bless the negro’s home.”
Filfls, the bejewelled circus man, now in S. Africa, has
had his diamond studs stolen by his lion-tamer. The
latter’s couns-l proved that his client suffered from the
jim-jams at the lime of the steal. The m agistrates held
that there had been no intention, therefore n > theft, and
discharged prisoner on recognisances. This item is
pH nted for the information of criminals who are teeto-
tallers on principle.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
There ia one member of past Australian Elevens
who haa never been seen drunk, but who has swallowed
more juice than any two other Australian cricketers com-
bined. Which is a large order. This Australian would
take a couple of friends on about 8 o’clock, drink them
asleep hy nine, move round for more fight for five minutes
or so; pick up a couple more friends, drink them into a
charge of drunk anil disorderly and tearing uniform by
ten; bear off on another tack, fall in with two or three
more, and drink them blind, deaf and dumb by 11 ; then
meet other mates coming out of the music-halls, take
them home, drink all hut the teetotaller of the crowd into
delirium tremenx, and knock out that teetotaller by
sitting up till 6 a.m. After this he would mutter some-
thing about constitution, not vice or virtue, miking a
man happy ; go to bed, sleep a lew hours, and get up in
time to make a rattling score.
• • • •
S. A, is the champion province for turning out
faded and worn-out cricket veterans in big matches. The
only new man in the match against Vic. was daxt'di, who
played in big matches 10 years ago, and is believed
to have arrived in S.A., at a great age, in 1806.
There are mmy young players in Adelaide who have been
performing well for years, notably Bailey, Chinner, Green,
and Travers, hut as long as some of the old players can
crawl about on crutches they are certain to be picked for
years to come. Vic. and N.S.W. have long since found
out the mistake of pursuing this policy, and S.A. ought
to profit bv their examnle.
F ’• • • •
Victoria defeated S. Australia in the first match
for the S leffleld shield, mainly owing to the failure of
George Giffen, who, in the two innings, mad- only 42
runs and look 7 wickets f>>r 247 runs. The Victorians
have unearthed a fine howler in voting Roche, one of the
M.C.C. professionals, who will get big averages this
season, Roche, hy the way, has only the thumb and two
fingers on his right—the bowling—hand. Of last years
craeks Graham, Joe Darling, Clem Hill, and Harry
played right up to form, Graham impressing the writer
as having settled down into a steadier style of batting,
Harry and Albert, Tmit d d very little, but neither has
strn k form. It is rather significant that no juniors—
except Roche—were unearthed in this match, which will
b-memoi able only for the inferior baiting and bowling
throughout.
* * * *
Who shall be in the dish will b« a tough question
this time. Australian cricketers (sp aking generally) are
going well and strong this season, and unless an
able Kale vetoes Darling, A. E. Trott, and McKihhin, they
will he new men for next E iglish tour. Am how, it locks
a certainly that J. Blackham's reign is over.
• * • •
Harry’s success for Vic. against S. A., if con-
tinued ibis season, will give the Acs' ralian Eleven selec-
(ors a hard nut to crack. ’9O s -electors tnrew Harry
over b“canse be wasn't of the upper-crost. Harry is a
brilliant fi-ld, a flue bat, a good bowler, and lie keeps
wickets well.
* * • *
The next Australian Eleven in England should
give the Britishers a fielding treat with H. Trott point,
Syd. Gregory cover-point, and A. E. Trott third-man.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
A. E. Trott’s fielding at slip was a feature of
the recent Vic. v. S.A. match. Trott is perhaps the best
man in the slips in Australia.
• • * •
More record - smashing. George Bonnor’s
gigantic hit at Melbourne of 150yds. has been outdone
by Adam Mather, who, when playing for S n.deion elec-
torate v. East Maitland electoiate the other day, hit a
lad 220yds. Next!
* * ♦ *
The recent Sydney “country” cricket week
was a dreary Jiaseo. At the week’s end the Metrop. team
plaved the combined country. The Met.’s pnt up 454,
and five of their men retired becaus- the conn ry fifteen
would never have got them out; Iredale and Walters
made 105 each, retired. Tne countrymen’s innings was
on the aboriginal pattern, and its agonising miserahleness
was aggravat-d by the obsolete Garrett bowling much-
walloped slush.
Alec. Bannerman notifies N.S.W. Cricket
Council that he will not represent this year. Ned
Gregoiy and Phil Sheridan, likewise understood to have
the buff, and w ill, it is said, decline to play.
• * * •
Jack Lyons made 136 against Port Adelaide irr
a cluh-match Nov. 2. He made the runs in 90min., thus
rivalling bis famous 145 against England at Lords i i ’93,
which were made in 95min. Lyons is hitting hard this
year, but he does not impress one as being over safe.
• • * •
Cricketer Coningham is now, although a
chemist, working for the Graziers Butchering Co., Bris-
bane. That firm snaps up any active crick her of note,
no matter what his trade, and gives him good pay. J. V.
Francis, the managing-director, a cricket enthusiast, is
mainly responsible.
Poidevin, considered by shrewd judges to be the
coming N.S.W. batsman, is the son of the schoolmaster at
Windsor. Air. Poidevin, sen., though hampered by lame-
ness, plays a good game himself.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, —A genuine tight place : To-
day, Monday, 28lb Oct., Fred. Butler, a ten-year-old pupil
at my school, while cricketing, smote, with a mighty
smite. The hat—of strong red-gum-split from the
bottom to half-way up the handle, while the hall firmly
wedged itself in the split, where it stayed while Fred
essayed a record. The school-whistle saved Clem. Hill
(or Laver?). Tnis ia a true bill.—M. F. Darcby, Dandar-
ragan (W.AJ , , •
Auraria, unfortunately, isn’t in the Y.R.C.
Leger, but she is entered for the Champion Stak'-s, and,
all going well with her meanwhile, she'll win the 3-mile
race in March next.
• • • •
The public will watch the future handicapping
of Hova with some interest. Devon ran a f.iir second io
the 9st. 31b. Patron, and this year was raised a stone for
his pains.
It was Hova’s poor performance in Portsea’s
famous Oiiampion race that justified Tins Bulletins
doubts of his stamina. All of them, bar Porlsea, were
distressed, but Hova came in more hopelessly beaten than
the others. Such a good judge as Mr. Sep. Miller
declared, at the time, that the horse’s heart was broken.
* • • •
It now appears that Onward’s “surprise ”in the
V.K.C. Handicap, the other Saturday, was a droll inci-
dent altogether. Tne Bal arat coll was start, dto oblige
tlie Palo Alto people, who wanted him to in ike a pace for
their slayer. Onward’s jockey, however, made the pace
only moderate for the first half mile ; then, starting with
a good lead, put in a fast mile and a quarter, and heat
them all. If the riders of either Palo Alto, Waterfall or
Burrahari had been keen judges of speed they would
have put on some steam in the early part of th- race.
Xiien Onward would, undoubtedly, have gnt run down at
the finish. Dawes, on Burrahari, showed bad Judgment,
seeing that the big horse—who was carrying very little
more than his Melh. Cup weight—allowed the time for
this If miles to he 7sec. slower, in proportion, than the
time for the two-mile Cup, in which Burrahari ran a good
third. Mistakes of this kind upset racing “ form ” in
long distance races, much more frequently than had luck
prevents the best horse from winning. Given a suffi-
ciently strong pace all the way, there’s not much fear of
the best horse being unable to vet through his field
towards the end of a 14 furlong struggle—that is, of
course, if he hasn’t been previously lamed or knocked
down at one of the curves.
• • • •
The action of Sydney Tatteraall’a bookmakers
in refusing to bet on Kensington course was their direct
condemnation of the practices and decisions of the Ken-
sington committee. The Rosehill club, being closely
associated with the Kensington, thereupon forbade Tatt. 8
bookmakers to bet upon Us couise. And the two racing
clubs, or rather the one, having brought the St. Leger
bookmakers into the saddling paddock, nas now made the
breach permanent.
The man who drew Auraria in Tatt.’s chief
sweep commissioned Gienisler to lay £3OOO to £5O against
the mare’s winning. Glenister tried James, the owner,
and every other likely man at Fleminglon, and failed.
• • • *
Oxenham’s partner, “the Count,” was fined for
keeping a turf-commission shop in Melbourne, last week.
It was the week after the Cup, and a local daily head-
lined its report— "Suppression of Betting.” The unin-
tentional humor of it!
• * * •
The futile stupidity of the N.S.W. anti-gaming
laws has been vividly silhouetted once more by the
reply of N.S.W. Attorney-General Want to C. G. Heydon,
M.L.C., his occasional alter ego, to the effect that he
knew that Sydney landed properties were being b'tteried,
but believed that they were being lotteried in Queens-
land ; also, that if there was any contravention of N.S.".
law he would immediately slop it. That is not enough.
If Jack Want would be thoroughly logical, he should at
once inform the Kanakaland Premier that this lottery
constitutes " an unfriendly act,” and, after the lapse of
certain days of grace, he should, declare war against
Queensland.
* • • •
The drollest of Melbourne Cup punters is he
who has a mild plunge on something or other, because it
conies V straight from the stable.” For a race of that
class an industrious enquirer can get at least 20 good
tilings straight from their respective stables.
» * * •
Auraria is the first Melbourne Cup taker to win
another race since March, ’9l, when Caibiue ran at
Handwick.
• * * ♦
.1. B. Clark intends to put a new name to his
unlucky nag Reconstruction. Suppose wesay Subterfuge?
* ♦ • •
At least two Queensland M.’sL. A., who had to
vote for the Suppiession of Gamming Bill, are indirectly
inlertsled in sweep-pr ‘motions.
* • * *
What is fame? Mr. Cook (“ Terlinga ”), of the
AtTSTR AC ASIAN, won Eureka in l he St. Alnan's lottery, and
the horse-reporters stated it thusly: " A cook on the S.s.
Australian drew Eureka.”
• » • •
The unwillingness of buyers to go beyond =£7ooo
for the well-tried stallion Trenton, the heat sire in Aus-
tralasia, cans d surprise. It wis an insult to the horse.
A figure bordering on double that amount would have
been nearer his market-value. When an improved
brother-Mnsket, Carbine, reads- d £13,000, there was an
outcry at his Deing sold privately, the pi ice realised not
being his true value. Trenton is worth much more than
Carbine as a sire, so far as can be judged at present.
* ♦ * *
Oscillator, who scored a first and close second at
Fleminglon in good company, returns to Maoriland for
the Great Northern Derby. Despite the fact that lie is a
good coll and is coming on, Maori! ciders assert that he
will meet bis master in Enroclydon, winner ot theN.Z.
Cup and Canterbury Derby lids year. In the latter event
he made backs of Stead s pair, Mannlicher and Mauser,
who ran s i well at Raudwiek recently.
» ♦ • •
Waterfall’s Wagga Cup win, with 9.12 in 2.40.,
was an undoubtedly go d performance for a three year-
old, even though the company was poor. Considering
the time and weight carried, Niagaras son should have
shaped better than last in Vic. Derby, but bis ignominious
display in that event is now put down to his luuning
without plates. He won Clulfielil Cup with hoof attach-
ments, but. they were taken off in the Ribbon to ensure
h s "going faster.” In Melb. Cup the silly mistake was
rectified with better result.
* * ♦ *
Sirgent, in Vic. Leg. Council ; “Sweeps had a
more demoralising effect oil the community than even
street betting. He could give an instance that came
under bis own nodce. He employed a number of men,
and one year several of them invested in a sweep and won
£3O. That demoralised them to a certain extent. The
following year they went into another sweep, and eight
of them drew close on £l2OO. The effect of that win was
demoralising to I lie who.e community. Nearly every
person in Warragul was bitten with the belling mania.
The popular type of racer is the mulish, with
lumpy liddle-head, but Auraria retferts to the old-
fashioned, giactful, rakish Blink Bonny.
• * * *
Great horses, of the era, that did not win a
Melb. Cup: Abeicorn, Ace, Cnaron, Commotion, Dag-
worth, First King, Pis dionk, King of the Ring, Mermaid,
Ncrdenfeldt, Paris, Trenton, Trident.
« • * *
“Punter”: The reason the bookmaker won’t,
or, rattier, can’t, give you proper odds; is because he has
to get his living, whereas you only have to blue your
superfluous cash. * * *
For one thing only Ikey Mo respects the
mechanical tote. It never opens its mouth about stiff
’uus.
• • • •
Shilling wagering comprised the business of the
books on the flat at Fleminglon this season. At one
time the portable totes used to scoop the shillings; now
they go to Mo, and Ikey seems to And them profitable;
though he has to work for his money. A popular flat
ho kie carries a heavy load of silver at the start of a big
race.
• • ♦ •
Tom Guild, who, with his two sons, shares in
the first prize in the St. Alban’s lottery, is one of three
brothers (Scotchmen) who settled in Seymour, Vic., in
the early days and there carried on store and hotel-keep-
ing and grazing as partners. They got rich and divided
the assets, Tom taking the store. After the division the
other two bid hers continued to pro>p >r, but Toni’s good
nature and generosity, as well as misfortune (writes a
Bulletin correspondent), have kept him in harness right
up to now. He lias a large family, and his eldest
daughter is a girl of great beauty. They are among the
niosl popular people in the district, and it is pleasant to
see Fortune for once award a favor with her eyes open.
• • * •
Cyclist Harris, just arrived from Eng., is a
professional under Hie rules which govern English
cycling. On one occasion lie I ode for a £ 5 note instead
of a marble clock, and was thereupon disqualified as an
amateur. In Australia he will 1 not be hampered by this
distinction, as all prizes are very sensibly given in cash.
Australian tracks may be bad, but a Winning wheelist
always gets full value for bis ride.
A. W. Harris, the Englishman, should make
things hum on our cycling tracks. As a sprinter tie is
Slid to be more like Zim than any other rid. r. His best
timeg are Quarter-mile, 27 15th sec,; one mile, 1 min.
58 3 slh sec.; 5 miles, 11 min. 35 1 sth sec. ; 10 miles (on
grass), 27 min. 23 4-slb sec.—all records, w ith the excep-
tion of the mile, which has just been reduced to 1 min.
55 sec.
* • * »
An excited host of 30,003 Sydney Cricket-
ground record—last Saturday greeted Zimmerman ; and
N.S.W. Wheelmen’s League, having spent £9OO, reaped
£l4OO in “gate.” Neither Zim nor his manager ever saw
so great and vociferous a gathering. Its weight broke
through the grand-stan fence in several places ; once
among it there was no escape. For his heat in the Aus-
tralian Half-Mile Championship, the long-legg'd, long-
haired "Aalhah” came out (with his trainer wheeling
the bike), and, in short black i a"ts and blue Jersey,
walked to the starting-post. Buik (S. Aus.) and M’lnnes
(N.S. W.) started with Zim, and the three on each
other at hearse-like gait. When it came to racing there
was none, for the two might as well have tried to catch a
swallow us race Zim home.
But the sensation was to come. So far, the
crowd had recognised Zim’s legs as great legs, but still
legs. Parsons (Vic.), Lewis (N.S.W.), Iredale (Vic.), and
Zim wailed for the final's pisiol ; Zim. on the outside.
Flash I and away flashed Parsons, Lewis nipping in
straight on Parsons’ hind wheel, Iredale third, Zim.
fourth, and still outside—worst position, worst running.
Thus round they sped the first lap. Three-fourths of a
lap from home Parsons forced the battle at his top ;
Lewis answer*d, then Iredale, then Zim. just enough to
keep “thyar.” Two hundred yards from home Zimmer-
man picked up his machine and shot out like a
meteor; he just whizzed down that track leaving a
singed line for his paralysed rivals to follow'. He made
common hacks of the representative Australians, heating
them by 40,vds. in that 200 finish. Then couldn’t have
beaten third-raters like it. Ttie three Auslialiar s came
home in a hunch, but Parsons was second, and Iredale
just beat Lewis.
On that form, bar accidents, Zim. must win
every race he starts for in Australia.
Matthews (Vic.) disappointed onlookers in the
Sydney Wheel Race. Perhaps he lacks judgment.
Nevertheless, he’s worth watching : he couldn't ride
slow enougli to win Ids heat in the League Cup.
Harkins, the youngster who started at 60 to 1
on the 240 yards’ mark, easily won the Sydney Wheel
Race (6100). In ids heat he made his own pace and
actually gained on Portoa(ltaly), the scratch mnn. In
the final he again made Ids pace and came in 30 yards
ahead of a “ busted” field.
Elliott, the talked-of dead-bird, rode in fine
style in his heat for the Sydney Wheel Race, hut d ed
away from sheer exhaustion in the final. He hasn’t the
strength to win a hard two-mile race.
Megson was snuffed-out in bis heat for the
Half-Mile Australian Championship. Iredale (Vic.) and
Martin (America) were against him, and Iredale did the
right thing in taking the lead and sprinting a lap and a
quarter from home. That iong-sustaim d sprint was too
mu di for Megson, who came at the finish with desperate
unaxailingness.
Portoa (Italy) and Martin (America) showed
themselves to he real game pluggers, hut Parsons, Meg-
son and Iredale were all too fast for them. It is said that
these nmn are nol used to the grass-track. But Zim beat
Australia as he liked on that same grass-track.
Megson’a gameness was, next to Zim’s wonder-
ful win, the feature of last Saturday’s cycling. In the
First-Class Handicap (mile and a half) he beat Parsons
(Vic.), Martin (America), Portoa (Itab ). Bulk (S. Ans.',
O’Hrien (N.S. W,), Payne (N.S. W.) am) Chapman (Banana-
land). Payne, Mgson’s stab e male, blocked Parsois;
olherw se Megson might possibly not have w> n. As it
was, Megson was bir d 10J yarns Loin home ; n-vert.hr*
le she heat Parso by a f -xv inches. Megson fainted
afterwards—it was said through over-training.
Some anonymist sent the unassuming Parsons a
compass inscribed “Jack Parsons, Champion of the Cab-
bage Gaiden,” and a short note in a girl’s writing : “This
compass is sent so ih it you can always find yourself, for
since you beat the half-fit American,! understand that
you duiino where you are.”
That difference between Zim and the Victorian
League of Wheelmen won’t mend by the league claiming
that Zim accepted in willing for the Austral. Zim denies
ever writing, also that lus manager ever wrote, or any
other authorised person.
Zimmerman offers to race any man in Australia
any distance, from a quarter-mile to five miles, for 4.600
a side.
• * * *
There has been perfect Sheol among rival
cycling firms in Melb time. The fist, the foot, the pn,
tite law have all been (nought to hear in the d SiUrbame.
* • * *
Portoa, the Italian, correspondent to three
Italian newspapers, is the most muscular pedaller at
present in Australia. He could not speak a word of
English on landing, but lie is picking it up smartly.
• • • *
Zim. says that one of the fastest sprinters he
ever met was Barden. When they raced fixe mill*
(tandem-paced) in Paris, they did • lie first mile in
2min. Bs-0., and Bard n on the tandem’s hind wheel then
cut out the second mile at hell-fire pace— linin. 57sec.—
and collapsed. Zim. finished alone.
• • • •
Parsons left the Humber for the Nimrod
because the Nimrod Co. gives him twice the screxv tnar
the Humber Co. did, /
• * * •
The cycler’s fun is to make up as a knicker
bockered woman hiker.
« • • •
Take notice of the male business poptdation < I
Sydney, between 1 and 2 p.m., flattening their nngi s On
D. Jones and Co.’s window—the window containing ladies’
bicycle costumes.
* • • •
Lady Brassey is much more at home on horse-
back than on a bike- and much more prepossessing
She is known as a very straight rider to hounds.
m * • •
A ladies’ school for cycling has already started
in Sydney—an ex-ska'ing rink having been slightly altered
and fitted-up for the purpose. The management provides
for its patrons tweed blouses ard knickerbockers —a
costume held to he superior to skirts for lean ing, at any
rate. The attendants at present are men, though ladies
are promised by-and-bye.
Michael, the champion long-distance cyclist—
-50 to 250 miles—is lOOlh. weight, and so weedy looking
that when he came on the track some 12 month* ago the
athlelis and public laughed. But at i lie end of 16 miles
ids robust competitors xvere a mile behind, and the inside
and oniside of the track was strewn xx’ith dead and ousted
pace-makers. As for Michael—he | e tailed on chewing a
toothpick to keep himself warm. Bi ss, of America, who
is also 1001 b. weight, is one of the very fastest of cyclists
from quarter-mile up to two miles—faster for two miles
than Sanger, who is 6ft. 2in., and perhaps ti.e highest
prominent cyclist. , * *
Two extensive cycle establishments are to be
shoetlv erected—one in Melbourne, and one in Sydney.
J t * * •
With Zimmerman, Martin. Portoa, and Harris
(ex-English champion, who is after Zim.’s scalp) on the
scene, Australian cyclists can xvin or lose a reputation.
The Victorians, hoxvever, may, from a Sydney point of
view, rest safe in the hands of their handicappers; no
outsider is going to down a Vic. wheeler unless hfe is a
wonder of all wonders.
• * • •
Portoa holds the 100 kilometres Italian record ;


TATTERS ALLS
QUEENSLAND o.—Deoemb r 10th.
SUMMER o.—December 23tli.
CARRINGTON S.—January Ist. ...
MIDSUMMER H.—January Ist. ...
100,000 at 5.
25.000 at 10.
50.000 at 5.
10.000 at 5.
“TATTRRMH,"
Care of Gborob A.RAMS,
••The Telegraph ” Chamber*
QUEEN STREET,
. Brisbane, Queensland
CONSUMPTION CURED.
Hereditary or Contracted Consumption Cured by
a Gentleman who possesses a Positive Remedy.
Full information given or appointments made.
Proprietor, Box 642, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Ed. Pinaud Parfumene s splendid
new poster, now displayed on Australian hoard-
ings, cost a fee of £250 to the artist, apart al-
together from the printer. Their Sapho Extract,
Violette Heine, Quinine Water, and other scents,
are the delight of fashionable Paris, and are said,
on good authority, to be used to flavor the zephyrs
of Paradise itself. Any chemist will beam respon-
sive to the magic word “ Pinaud.”
fg
df
gd
fg
V"
(Established 37 Years.)
Mr. A- W. STEEL,
Member of Tattbrsall’s,
(133 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melb.)
There is Only One Way to Win Money on the
Turf, and THAT is Hide the entire Sporting Press of
Victoria New S mth Wales and South Australia)hy con-
sulting or entru-tinsr your SPORTING INTERESTS or
INVESTMENTS TO U' e above-named PROVED Only
Reliable Turf Adviser and Turf Commission Agent (com-
bined) in Australia.
Mr. Steel sends more WINNERS to his clients than all
she OTHER Tipsters in Australia put together— Vide
u the Press.”
Some REAL GOOD THINGS for
All Race Meetings!
l«s. a day only for ANY DAY'S Racing SELEO-
TIUNS. £5 ss. for ANNUAL Subscribers, who
receive ALL racing information for 12 FULL
months.
DISCBETIONARY INVESTMENTS
Press extract:—“These DISCRETIONARY INVEST-
MENTS are undertaken EVERY SATURDAY over
the CURRENT Races ROUND MELBOURNE, for
clients who cannot themselves attend, by Mr, A. W.
STEEL (member of Tattersall’s), who frequently makes
his clients GOOD WINNERS, and has the pleasure
of sending them WINNING CHEQUES.
Mr Steel is pleased to be able to state that he bad
AGAIN a VERY FAIR WINNING DAY for bis DIS-
DRETIONARY INVESTING CLIENTS on SATURDAY
LAST at the VICTORIAN CLUB RACES winning
£2B Bs. for EACH “ Investor of a “ Fiver.”
Mr. Steel is undertaking these Investments on SATUR-
DAY AGAIN (the 30th inst.) over
Aspendale Park Races,
when he anticipates
AT LEAST EQUALLY AS GOOD A DAY
ls he bad at Caulfield. Mr. Steel, therefore, RECOM-
MENDS the public to give him a trial in THIS line, and
reminds them that if they have not time to POST their
money, they can WIRE it.
These DISCRETIONARY INVESTMENTS,
jonducted by Mr. Steel, must perforce be better than
into SWEEPS, etc., where the odds are 1000 to 1
against you, whereas HERE the odds are all IN YOUR
h FAVOR I
Bankers:
The National Bank of Australia, Limited.
(Mr. (Steel’s <S<SW_ §eneial Circular.
Send for the above (sent gratis together with Press
encomiums), showing you by
COMMON SENSE
the immense advantages of dealing with a man like Mr.
A. W. STEEL, in preference to the other“so-called ’*
Tinsters. Commission Agents, etc., and explaining FULLY
the NATURE of these Df SC 111 ST lON ARY INVEST-
MENTS.
For “Press Opinions,” Recommendations, References,
etc., see hack files of THIS paper. In writing, please
MENTION this paper.
Important Caution !! !
please to observe that Mr. Steel is the ONLY AC-
CREDITED PUBLIC INVESTOR in Melbourne, so
BEWARE of IMPOaTORS (who advertise at THIS
season of the year ONLY, with a view to “catching” a
few of the UNWARY—not having the MEANS at any
other season of the YEARt with their SCURRILOUS
STATEMENTS and MISREPRESENTATIONS. Mr. Steel
is the
Only Member of Tattersall s
who gives racing advice, which ANYONE can satisfy
themselves about on application to the Secretary of the
Club. Any others advertising themselves as MEMBERS
OF TATTERSALLS are IMPOSTORS, aod it is UN-
NE ESSAUY to “point out” that unless-.they BE
members of Tattersall’s, it is UNWISE to entrust them
with any MONEY for INVESTMENTS or COMMISSIONS!
jpg'" Mr. STEEL’S ADVERTISEMENT is, moreover,
ALWAYS to be found—week in, week out—-in THIS and
OTHER respectable journals, not only just at THIS
season of the year like others.
These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam of Copaiba, Oubebs or In-
cant/i*
&id\
Each Capsule ts
Stamped “ M-IHES*
lections and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
out inconvenience.
Sold by all Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. & Co.,
and
Australian Drug Co.
WCW
-THE—
HUMBER
Makes Champions!
Sets the fashion to the world!
Is copied by all 1
Is equalled by none!
The Austral Cycle Agency. New Address—
-393 George st.. SYDNEY. (And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Hobart and New Zealand.)
w. ft. ft. ELLIOTT. Manager.
OXENHAM’S
m. MONSTER *»
CASH PRIZE CONSULTATION.
All drawn under the Supervision of Tatter-
Ball’s Club Committee, Brisbane, assisted
by leading Citizens and members of
the Press, in the presence of the General
Public.
QUEENSLAND CUP.
Brisbane, December 10, 1895.
20,000 at 2 6.
H. Oxenham is also prepared toexeoutecommissions
on all the principal events run in Australia,
Straight Out, Double, Flace, or Starting Price.
Branches at—
-245 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
366 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TATTERSALL’S CLUB, BRISBANE.
Address for Consultations:
“ OXENHAM,”
Tattersall’s Club, Brisbane, Queensland.
JOHN HAUSMANN,
255 Pitt Street, Sydney,
ADJOINING MARBLE BAR.
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, and
Victorian Club, Melbourne),
Executes Commissions on All
Sporting Events,
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
116 Pitt Street, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Original Cash Fielder .
(; tnmissions Executed on ALL EVENTS through m
tlie World,
STARTING PRICE-20 io 1 Limit on all Horse races.
Telegiaphic Code—“ Westbrook, Sydney." Telephone,
No. 1542.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is ‘‘THE <'ItESCEVE,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
“ Ellis’ Kinsr-street Coffee Palace,” situated 5C
KING and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. EM,I*.
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price—One Shilling.
“Without England Australia is powerless”
(Sir Henry Norman). “ Without England Aus-
tralia is foeless,” says the Australian Democrat.
“ To cut ttie painter ” (says the Brisbane COURIER,
echoing Gov. Norman) “were to invite attack
and precipitate war on our defenceless heads.”
Will the Courier say what possible motive (other
than a desire to injure England) any country
could have for attacking Australia so long as Aus-
tralia minds her own business?
Enquire Within for
A Pretty Print Blouse
Of floral pattern, in navy-blue,
pink, maroon, or black ... 1 OJ
Blouses in no end, in silk,
zephyrs, cambric, pongee muslin
and print.
Two-Tone and Fancy
Mohair and Silk Crepons, in
lizard and gold, crimson and
black, myrtle, moss, navy, elec-
tric, cerise and gold, heliotrope
and black—at 3s 3d, 3s lid,
4s 6d and 4s lid a yard.
The old-fashioned trader in the
city has been asking 8s 6d a yard
for some of these.
Superb Capes from Paris.
The “Czarina’’Fawn Satin Cape,
extensively trimmed with eme-
rald passementerie, lined with
fawn merveilleux, deep-pointed
velvet collar... ... ... 67 6
The “Versailles” Black Silk
Cape, perforated and embroi-
dered, lined with peacock silk,
edged with silk Spanish lace;
collar of Elizabethan ruffling ... 42 0
And scores more in satin, silk,
plush, box cloth, one more hand-
some than another, and hardly
two alike.
Ladies’ Gloves.
28-inch Milanese Silk Gloves ... 2 11|
4-button Austrian Lamb Gloves,
stitched backs ... ... 2 3
4-button “ Honour Bright ” Kid
Gloves ... ... ... 2 3
4-button “La Tosca ” Chevrette
Kid, piqud sewn... ... 411
Black Cashmere Gloves ... 0 6^
Ladies’ Hosiery.
Mark Foy’s renowned “ Black
as the Devil” brand, per
pair, from ... to 1 3
Ladies’ Corsets.
Beauty, long-waisted ... ... 2 3
Champs Elysdes, flowered bro-
cade ... ... ... 3 6
Crisscross, summer corset ... 3
Novelette, long-waisted ... 3 3
Perfume, very long-waisted ... 511
Ladies’ Boots & Shoes.
The choicest French, German,
Austrian and American makes
always in stock.
Pinet's French Boots & Shoes
in great variety.
Men’s Tweed Suits,
from 15s 6d to 36s 6d
Navy Worsted Serge
Suits from 19s lid to 42s 6d
Sergerette Suits, in
fawns, greys, and
browns from 21s to 32s 6d
JK. SIST-A^E*.
Men’s Trousers of the finest Tweeds, all
wool, in scores of patterns, cut and finished
by a famous London tailoring firm.
7s lid.
A rare chance, even at Mark Foy’s.
Youths’ Tweed Suits,
11s 6d, 13s 6d
Navy Worsted Serge
Suits from 16s lid to 24s 6d
Sergerette Suits, in
fawns, greys, and
browns ... 22s 11, 25s lid
Boys’ Navy Worsted
SERGE SUITS ... 13s 6d, 16s lid
Sergerette Suits, in
fawns, greys, and
bi’owns ... 16s lid
Trousers ... ... 3s 6d to 7s 6d
Bamboo Blinds,
In all lengths and
widths from Is lT|d to 6s 3d
Carriage Nil
To your nearest railway station
MARK FOY pays freight
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, M.S.W.
BALMORAL HOUSE
Is the most centrally-situated for sight-seeing in
this delightful and bracing climate. Visitor* and
invalids will find every home comfort, excellent
table and attendance. Terms—2 guineas ; 8/ per
ay. Private suites, 3 guineas. Apply Manager.
and Martin recently won 70 prizes against crack French
riders during a four months’ French tour,
• • • •
Melbourne cycling women with shapely limbs,
who haven’t the pluck to reveal them par baggy br-eks,
Wear black silk clocked stockings agninst a back-ground
of White petticoat. In riding, the skirt works up to the
knee, For catching the male eye tire bloomer “isn’t in
it" with this dodge.
* * • *
Dr. Richardson, an English expert, says the
effort of driving a bicycle, if persisted in to a certain ex-
treme, has the same effect upon the heart as that pro-
duced hy alcohol; and Dr. Springihorpe, of Melh., calls 1
bicycling “ the champagne of sport.” The Bulletin
begins to Understand the sudden popularity of cycling,
and thb swelled head of the female rider is fully accounted
for.
• a • •
Huret, the Frenchman who holds the 24 hours
record (515 miles odd), is a cycling phenomenon, being
83 years of age. The average cyclist begins to go off at
22 or 23, and even the great Zim., at 26, is a comparative
greybeard among wheelmen. In the first flight of Aus-
tralian racing men scarcely one is over 23; Parsons is 2c,
Megson 21, Turner 22, IC<ihle 21, Pither 22. and O'Brien
82, Johnson, who is chasing Zim. from ’Murka, is 21.
• * * *
At Liverpool, Eng., a “strange man,” arrested
for kissing a hloomered oycliste, successfully pleaded that
he thought she was ins long-Ipst brother.
• • » •
American cyclist Foster has wheeled a-third of
a mile (paced) in 30 sec., or 2 2 sth sec. faster than John-
son's time.
• * * •
The victory of Maher, the Irish champion, over
O’Donnell was a momentary affair, and just what w->s to he
expected if Maher could fight well enough to k<-ep him elf
alive. O Donnell was never better than a seconu-iate
boxer, and as fighter he belonged to the discretionary
order.
« • * •
They couldn’t even get the Corbett-Fitz-dmmons
banging m itch off under the guise of a “ physical culture
exhibition.’’ When a fight was improbable Corbett
blustered : “ I’ll fight him privately for fun. He’s get-
ting off a lot of blow, and doing a big- bluff. Yes, I’ll
knock him about for amusement only.” The Yankee’s
eagerness to get at the Australian has all along been pain-
fully apparent.
• * * •
Ex-champion sculler Beach is now a “ milk-
grower” on ids farm at Illawarra, and express a s himself
highly pleased with the results. Beach is one of the very
few successful athletes who has prudently handled his
earnings.
• • • *
Ernie Cavill, Australia’s champion swimmer,
begins a series of exhibitions in the art of swimming at
Newcastle shortly. He then intends touching all towns
along the route to Port Darwin, Lance Lenton manages.
* * * •
The Bulletin knows of only one stage profes-
sional wno lias reason to Ideas the Turf. That’s big Benham,
formerly of the Firm’s comic opera eo., and a Hebrew
more or less. Benham makes a nook, and must lie doing
well, judging from tire fact that tie refuses silver bets
with contumely, whilst leviathan Jack Cohen drops the
humble “dollar” into his bag in the ordinary way of
business.
• * • *
Certain well-known Sydney thieves can bo seen
daily sprint-running, one with the other, to keep them-
selves in form to get away from the “ Johns.”
In the bygone halcyon days of pedesttianism
the thieves were regular goers on the track. It was a
hard tussle for a runner to keep his clothes. One dandy
ped. used to always bring ids clothes out and nut them
down beside the winning-post, and then walk warily
backwards down to his mark, keeping his eyes on Ids
togs. “Straight wire” this! He didn’t raise a row
because, if tie had, he’d have been found next morning
with Ids throat cut. Even now, if anyone wants an
enemy waylaid and partly or wholly extinguished, he can
engage an x-ped. for the transaction with a “ quid” or so.
• • • •
A certain great cricketer has emerged from the
wi iter witli ids hair and moustache dyed.
« • * •
The latest in trotting sulkies is one in which
the wheels, looked at from the side, seem to be under the
horse’s belly, while the seal is just above his loins. The
wheels are a.so only the size of those on a safety-bicycle,
and are pneumatic-tyred.
• • • *
It is long since Kanakaland turned out a race-
horse of any note, but rumors say it has a smasher
in the two-j ear-old Brazenface, by the Splendor horse
Brazenose.
• * * *
If N.S.W. Parliament passes—as it probably
will —the leasing proposal in the Fisheries Amending Act,
recommended by the Commission, 90 per cent, of the
licensed fishermen (writes “Ponte ” to The Bulletin) may
put all their gear aboard and take the plug out of their
boats in 50 fathoms of water. They may also ballast
themselves with a copy of the report and go down with
their boats, for the most of them can do nothing else
hut fish. If the leasing idea becomes law every fisher-
man must fish on ids own ground week after week. Now,
there is not the slightest doubt that fish are at all times
migratory. Their movements are extremely erratic, and
arise from various causes, the chief being the season,
wind, weather, and state of the water. Consequently,
the men on one shore might make 50 hauls for 50 fish,
while those on the opposite shore kill more than they
can get to market. Tne men can’t make a living as it is.
What chance will they have if confined to one hauling-
ground ? It is always necessary to follow the fish as
they shift, and as a matter of justice the men must have
equal rights to every ground subject to priority only.
Then, again, any man with a water-frontage will be aide
to take out a license and get a lease —which he will do
for the sake of his line-fishing. And here you have tire
key to the whole tiling. Fatinan wishes to preserve Ids
little hit of pleasure at the cost of the.“ other fellow’s ”
livelihood. The fishermen look to Farnell, M.P., for
better things, hut if he allows this to beoora- law he will
be more execrated than the inspectors under the present
Act—words can say no more.
■ • • *
Zirn. wouldn’t race in Brisbane until .£l5O were
deposited to his
Oxenham gave 100 guineas for Waterfall.
• • • •
A portrait-group is shown in Melb., taken only
three years ago, representing 11 leading jockeys. Four
of them have since met with violent deaths: Burke,
Corrigan, Cusdin, M’Gowan.
* • • * •
Two worse-matched men than Olioynski and
Creedon, the National Sporting Club. London, could not
pick upon for its next show. It may safely be said the
overrated Creedon will never land a blow upon the clever
Choynski, who will simply play with the stocky Austra-
lian as he would with a punching-ball.
• • * •
Payne, here tipped the other week as one of the
most promising N-S. W, cyclists, won the Half-mile Han-
dicap and Goulburn Wheel Race (two miles) in fine style
last Biturday. The way Lewis, who is not even in half-
and-half condition, downed the carefully-trained Megson
in the three-mile race is a nut for Megson’s 00. to crack.
Piles CuhED.—Albert Sharp’s pamphlet on
the cure of old-standing oases of piles, without
pain or operation, by the new “Cannalin method,
post free on application. Original packages of
Cannalin, sufficient for about six weeks (the
average required), price £l, carriage paid to any
part of the colonies, from the depdt for Aus-
tralasia, 257 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W., on
receipt of cash or postal order.


SENS
Kangaroo Skins
ssnvriD to
Kangaroo Skins
M‘BURNEY, WALLIS & CO.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
SPECIAL STORE. BEST CLASSERS.
, EVERY ATTENTION. on •
Sheep Skins Sheep Skins
ms
Aunt Mary’s Baking Powder
Rheumatism
AND PILES CURED BY
AYER’S SARSAPARILLA.
Mr. W. Jennings, Adelaide, S. A., formerly
of Hawthorn, near Melbourne,
Vic., writes:
“For the pasts or 4 years. I have been a
great sufferer from rheumatism and piles.
I tided all sorts of medicines, but derived
no good from them. I chanced to read one
of your books and thought I would give
your Sarsaparilla a trial. I did so, and after
,• K
/ m
iSp K
mmm
taking one bottle I felt better, and after
taking 4 bottles I was a new man. 1 was
sorry I never took it before, for it would
have saved me very much pain. ”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Has cured others, will cure you.
Made by Dr. J.C.Ayer & Co.. Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A,
WHO’S MAKING THE PACE
IN THE
Bedstead, Bedding,
AND
WOYE-WIEE MATTE ASS TEADE?
Wiiy,
Established
over
30 years.
(Zawler & (Sons, I
612 George-street, Sydney, j
And the reason WHY ?
Telephone,
No. 66.
Because
Healthy Bedding being absolutely essential to
cheerful health and length of years, the only quality
they manufacture is the very purest and best.
S3T For All-round Value, LAWLER’S are not to
be beaten.
t3T No ORDER too small or CONTRACT too
large.
43T Contents of LAWLER’S Mattrasses guaran-
teed as represented,
dgf Orders executed prompt to time.
You will never sleep soundly, and in the morn-
ing rise vigorous and refreshed, unless you procure
your Bedstead, Wire Mattrasses and Bedding
from
LAWLER & SONS,
612 George-street, SYDNEY.
Walking a Pleasure.
dfg
WHITELAW & CO.
(Late WHITELAW. HOOTON & CO.),
Wholesale and Retail
BOOT and SHOE MANUFACTURERS
(Men’s, Ladies’ and Children’s),
155 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
(Midway between Bonrke & Little Collins-sts.).
pg" Write for Catalogues.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
SPLENDID BUILDING SITES AND BLOCKS
—AT—
PERTH, the CAPITAL CITY,
FROM £l5 EACH. VERY EASY TERMS.
Discount for Cash. Title Guaranteed Perfect.
The Intercolonial Investment Co.
(Limited),
309 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas, Manager.
S&" Note.—Map of West Australia (4 colors)
latest data. Post free, Is. each.
To Cure sore Throats
WOUNDS, BURNS, SORES, and all DISCHARGES, and for purifying drinking
_.. . „ , water, use CONDY'S FLUID.
bom by all Chemists. Book of directions on every bottle. Condy & Mitchell, of
London, England, are the sole makers. Insist on buying “Con i >Y’S FLUID "
Use “Condy’s Fluid.”
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S LA( T(MJLV(OSE
OR IVEILIC FOOD.
Specially Adapted for Countries where Fresh Caw’s Milk cannot he obtained.
These Goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good in any Climate. To be obtained from all Druggists and Stores.
THE MOST POPULAR
TEA IN THE MARKET
IS THE CELEBRATED
John Bull Blend
ALL GROCERS KEEP IT.
f W’Kolesale by
Bull Sf Zq.
S-laren.ce St.
EXCELSIOR
NICOTINE
LIQUID
NO MORE POISONING!
DIP
COST
ABSOLUTELY DESTROYS TICKS and LICE.
CURES and PREVENTS SCAB and EOOTROT.
A Farthing 1 per Sheep.
NICOTINE MANGE CURE (in Bottles) 4-pts., 1/6; pints, 2/6 each.
NICOTINE BLIGHT CURE (in Bottles) |-pts., 1/6 ; pints, 2/6 each.
Weber, Lehmann & Co.,
AGENCIES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES.
This delicious and
highly nutritive Food has
been used with remark-
able success in the rearing
of Infants, and bydelicate
and aged persons in Eng-
land for many years. It
can now be obtained in
sealed tins of leading
Chemists, &c., in the
Colonies, and will prove
a boon to mothers and
nurses.
GOLD MEDAL,
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
ft
ft
ft
for Infants
invalids and the Afled
MOST DELICIOUS,
NUTRITIVE and DIGESTIBLE.
A gents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Limited, The AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.. SYDNEY, and of all Chemists, dc„ everywhere.
EXTRACTS
FROM
PRIVATE LETTERS.
•• It is with heartfelt grati-
tude I write to tell you of the
great benefit my little daugh-
ter Gladys has derived from
•Banger's Food.' The doctor
and all who saw her thought.
we should never he able to,
rear her. We took her to the
hospital, and the ■ authori-
ties recommended * Benger’s
Food.' From that time she
began to pick up flesh and
strength."
“If every mother knew of
Its value no other would be
used."
Melb. : There was really little enthusiasm
over Brassey’s reception. Compare it with Hope-
toun’s departure, a real downright outbreak of
stupid effervescence, the despair qf a reformer,
not to say a revolutionist. An elderly gent and
his young wife are handicapped versus the Hope-
touns, and, besides, the fuss is only over what they
are going to do.
One of the occasional joys of the Cool-
gardie district is the “ bad camel.” Recently an
animal of this description got a man down, bit
him considerably, and rubbed him systematically
in the dust. Then it picked up another
man by the leggings and threw him 10
yards or so ; chased a digger into a patch of scrub
and kept him there for some time ; and finally
walked up the street and spat on people pro-
miscuously. The bad camel is almost the only
gleam of humor in that profoundly serious
country.
That Port Darwin police-court case, in
which one Gully was fined “for encouraging a
policeman in idleness, while on duty, by allowing
him to play a game of draughts in his shop,”
gives unmistakable proof of the influence of the
Mongolian mind on the legal methods of that
Chow-haunted portion of Australian territory.
It is an essentially Chinese practice to seek to
discover behind an offender some person indirectly
connected with the offence, and, when found, to
treat him as a principal. Thus, at Canton the
other day, a man who murdered his father was
executed—and so was the murderer’s school-
master, for not having instilled better principles
into his pupil’s mind.
For coughs, colds you can’t beat Colemane
and Sons Eucalypte Extract.*
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley, the other
day, refused to her mother and paternal grand-
mother the custody of an illegitimate girl, aged
between 13 and 14, whom her deceased father had
placed in a North Sydney Convent. Judges
Windeyer, Simpson and Cohen, sitting in Banco,
have reversed this decision, and the child is to be
given to her mother. Judge Windeyer gave a
learned deliverance, in which the doctrine was
affirmed that the mother of an illegitimate child
has the same rights over her child as the father of
a legitimate one has over his; that in the case of
boys up to 14, and girls up to 16, the parent’s
wishes must prevail, unless a material, and not
merely a sentimental disadvantage to the child,
can be shown to be a probable result; and that,
unless grave reasons can be shown for a change,
the parent’s right of custody continues until the
child is 21. Which appears to be uncommonly
good sense, as well as good law.
Dinner-table at a Launceston (Tas.) hotel.
Heavy Johnny—recent arrival from ’Ome : “ Took
a run down to Port Arthur whilst over Hobart
way, but can scarcely believe the stories I heard
about the old convict days, or that so many of the
good fellows I have met in the Island are de-
scended from convict parents.” Sydney Civil
Servant —over for a holiday: “Why not? Take
my case, tor instance. My pa and his brother
belonged to a good English family. Hard-up,
they advertised in the Times— ‘ Situation vacant
for a decent man.’ Applicants were decoyed in
a boat on the Thames, knopked on the head,
pockets rifled, and bodies anchored with a hun-
dredweight of stone round their necks. After
disposing of about 14, they had the bad luck to
chuck one out at high-water on a sand-bank, and
the body was discovered when the tide ran out.
Pa got a fright and turned Queen’s evidencp.
Uncle was hanged, and pa got 14 years’ transpor-
tation to Tasmania, where he founded one of the
first families. Am Ito blame for that ?” A roar
of laughter from all round the table here gave the
show away, and when Johnny saw how the land
lay, he left the table in a huff.
City Hotel. Pay-night. Signing for
wages. Manager (to new kitchen-hand who has
been getting over big spree): “ What makes your
hand shake so, Mike?” (He had signed his name
across three lines). Mike: “Faith, sir, Oi’m
always that way when in the prisence of a gintle-
man.” Mike didn’t get the sack that week.


Herr Rassmussen,
HEAD
DEPOT
547 George St, Sydney.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
Melbourne : - - 150 Bourke-street.
Adelaide s - 154 Hundl e-street.
Bristoane :
ZKT.Z-:
_ _ 160 Queen-street,
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W. Australia: Corner Hay & William streets, Forth.
Branches and Agencies throughout Europe, America, Africa, Asia, and the Colonies.
PROPRIETOR ()P THE ALFALINE REMEDIES
BLOOD
for tlie
AND NEEVES.
Alfa! me Herbal Remedies.
_ (A LIST OF THEM.)
■):(■
ALFALINE VITALITY FILLS
(REGISTERED').
The ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS are recognised everywhere as the only real core for all
Nervous Affections. They have been before the public for many years, and stood a test which may
well be envied by all manufacturers of similar remedies, as they have received more
TESTIMONIALS
for building up a broken-down Nervous System than any known remedy in the wor’d, and they have
been tested and tried often enough to have been proved
A Real Cure for Nervousness and Debility,
as well as the usual unhappy results from Early Pollies, Overwork and Inherited NERVOUS
WEAKNESS, manifesting itself in Specks before the Eyes, Giddiness, Want of Vigor, Fullness
after Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Eisily
Excited, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused Brain, etc.
Weak Nerves and Spine and Brain.
The ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS have been the means of
restoring Thousands to Health, Strength and Vigor. Special Powerful
Double Course, 43/6 (posted); Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Smaller Boxes,
6/- and 12/-
Those about to Marry who suffer from any of the above
symptoms, would do well to take a course of the Alfaline Vitality Pills,
so as to commence their new life in a perfect state of health.
Posted Duty Free and Unobserved.
A VALUABLE AND USEFUL BOOK SENT FREE.
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
(REGISTERED).
A Wonderful Blood Purifier and Blood Tonic.
This BLOOD REMEDY has been proved to surpass and excel
all other known and advertised remedies for the complete Purification
of the Blood. It is not the usual Mercury Remedy, hut a real, guar-
anteed “Purely Herbal Remedy,” which has stood a TEN YEARS’
TEST before the Australian public, and which is in demand by
BLOOD SUFPERERS
throughout the world. It has no equal, inasmuch as it operates upon
of the blood, and does not permit the slightest particle of
TAINT or IMPURITY to remain in the system.
Those about to Marry should always take a course of this
remedy, so as to make sure that no Blood Taint be imparted to their
children. _ _ .
The ALFALINE LOCK PILLS remove all Discharges, Str-c-
-tures, Blotches, Pimples, and Old and Long-standing Blood Complica-
tions. Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted); Ordinary Course, 23/6;
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/-
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— Boxes, posted, l 6, 3'-, and 6'-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills Special Double course, 43 6 ; ordinary course,
23 6. Smaller boxes, 12'-, 6/-, and 3-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills Boxes, 23 6,12 •, 6/-, and 3/-.
Alfaline Universal Pills —For Sterility, the Blood & Nerves. Boxes, 43 6,
23/6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Pile Pills— Both for Internal and External Piles, Boxes, 6 -.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up and Strengthens the
Syst* in. Improves the figure and enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder-Boxes, 6 -.
Alfaline Injection Powder-Cures the Whites. Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— Boxes, 6 - and 3 /-.
Alfaline Hiir Restorer, Beautifier and Moustache Producer—
B >xes, 6 - and 3/-.
Alfaline Foot Powder— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastilles— Excellent for Colds, Coughs, and Influenza,
Boxes posted 1 6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to all others, 1/6 posted.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, B/-
Alfaline Gargle Powders— Packets, 6 -.
Alfaline Lock Globules— Boxes, 6 -
Alfaline Lock Ointment- 6 -.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, l - and 2-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any kind of Worms both in
Children and Adults, very pahteahle. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 1,6
Alfaline Bath Tablets Prevents Diseases, Regulates the Pores, Beautifies
the Skin and Perfumes the Bath. Boxes, I'-; posted, 16
Alfaline Corn Cure— Wonderfully effective, no unpleasant odour, absolutely
harmless. Bottles,!/; posted, 1/6
Porous Plasters—l/-.
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c„ &c.
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rassmussen’s Patent Electric Belts are superior to all others,
and unequalled for strengthening the Spine and Nerves, and an excel-
lent Cure and Preventative for Lumbago, Sciatica, General Debility,
and Kidney Affections. These Electric Belts require no acids or
dangerous liquids to generate the electric current, and are, therefore,
alwavs ready for use. Price 43/6, posted.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S Dry Cell Electric Machines, for family use, are
unexcelled, and can be regulated to suit the most delicate child as well
as the most robust man, and, as no acid is necessary, this Electric
Machine is always ready for use ; being very portable and compact,
will be equally convenient to travellers. All sufferers from Nervous
Affections should use one of these Machines, which speedily cures
Affections of the Nerves and Spine, Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Debility, Neuralgia, Despondency, St. Vitus’ Dance in
Children, Nervous Irritability, and numerous affections in both sexes.
Price 63/-.
WARNING.
Herr Rassmussen is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia. His
only Victorian Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne, and his Head Depot is
at 547 George-street, Sydney. Patrons should always obtain the remedies direct
from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herb RASS-
MUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
guaranteed purely herbal,
and can only he obtained from his own Offices and Branches, as mentioned.
Pamphlet sent free.
CorrestiawfffiHrr h?t(T Stvictly f/V) f . and Remedies and
Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free. These
Celebrated and Registered IWhal R-m d s have Cured oxer 100,000 Sufferers.
|3gf“ Make Cheques or Money O ders payable to HANS RASSMUSSYN.
Whether you send to his Head Office or to his branches, register all letters
containing monev
m
m
miL
j
si
Herr Hans It ass mussen,
The Celebrated Danish Botanist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR and MANUFAC TURER of thk
CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
DF* u. rely IE3C e r b a 1
Alfaline Remedies.
Wliicli have become the most popular
Skin, Blood & Nerve Remedies,
not only throughout the Australasian Colonies, hut
throughout the World, and which have given general
satisfaction to the Australian public for over ten years,
as proved by the thousands of unsolicited testimonials
received by the proprietor.
STJPFEEEES
FROM
Nervous Affeetlons and Blood and
Skin Diseases,
Who prefer self-treatment to going under a doctor’s treat-
ment, should send at once for
HERR RASS M US SEN’S
‘ iklfaline Gruicl e -fco DBCealth.,’
Or, “THK NATURAL DOCTOR.”
A VALUABLE FREE BOOK,
Which is sent post free and unobserved, in plain cover, and
which contains many valuable hints, and much useful advice
for the self-treatment of all Skin, Blood and Nervous Affec-
tions, and a large number of Genuine Testimonials.
t3T ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches,
or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office :
547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus —PROPRIETOR, Box
208, GENERAL POST OFFICE, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
Victoria: 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne
Queensland: 160 Queen-street, Brisbane
S. Australia: 154 Bundle-street, Adelaide
N.Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A. : Central Buildings, corner of Hay and
Williams Streets, Perth
INTERCOLONIAL LETTERS and ORDERS may, if
patrons desire it, be addressed to any of the above branches
to save delay.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY
A. 100,000 Testimonials.
(A FEW OF THEM.)
SWORN TESTIMONY.
STATUTORY DECLARATION,
I THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, in the Colony of New
South Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows : Whereas I suffered severely from
a very troublesome affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that I was quite unable to
attend to my business. I tried several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas I, as
a last hope obtained some of Herr Rassmussen’s Purely Herbal “Alfaline Vitality Pills,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare Completely Cured Me within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since. The Alfaline Pills also
cured my wife, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.—
THOS MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this 23rd day of November, 1891, beforeline.—S. T. WhiddON,
J.P. Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner of the Supreme Court of New Soutli
Wales and Victoria. „
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus :To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir,-I think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and in consequence, I have recommended them to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
I A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-sfc., Melb,, July 18, 1892.
Dear Sm—l have much pleasure to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Pills completely cured m« of a severe case of biliousness,
wind and nervousness. I may also mention that several of my friends
to whom I have recommended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them; therefore, I consider you are deserving of success, wmcn
1 do most heartily wish you. T
Yours gratefully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I here.hy hep: to certify that having been a sufferer from
General Debility of the Nervous System for over seven years, and
having tried without success several of the leading doctors both in
Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to try your Alfaline Remedies,
l am thankful I did so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recommend
your remedies to anyone suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which .you have treated me,
allow me to say that you can make what use you may think proper of
this. Wishing you every success, allow me to remain, yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness: John Hagerman (my husband), caretaker Tivoli
Theatre, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
A Wonderful Cure.
Here Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year of 1871 I was eight days in the water sheep-
washing, and contracted rheumatism and stiffness in the joints, and
have tried all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a.
great difficulty in walking, and went to the Turkish baths, which did
no good. Passing your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E. W.
O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as I had, which led me to
try your Remedies. On Thursday before Good Friday I took tbe first
of your Pills ; since then 1 have used 4 boxes Special Powerful Alfaline
Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with
Liver and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil,
and lam now, with the blessing of God, as well in health as I was 2S
years ago. I can witli great confidence recommend your Remedies to
anyone suffering from the same complaint. May you long be spared
under God to he a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully, JOHN KEAY.
Witness : Ei ward Hardy, proprietor Town Hall Coffee Palace,
521 George-street.
Great Debility and Weakness Cured.
51 Barkly-street, Ballarat, Victoria, Aug. 29, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Remedies have acted most wonderful in my case, and I consider that
the great virtues yon claim for them have been entirely substantiated—
not only in my case, hut in several of my family and acquaintances to
whom 1 have recommended their use. I consider they are far more
efficacious than any remedy yet brought before the public. I consider
you are second to none as a human benefactor.
I am, yours truly, EDWARD DREW.
A Lady’s Wish Fulfilled.
It gives, me great pleasure indeed to inform you that your cele-
brated Alfaline Universal Pills cured me, when all other remedies and
doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’ standing. My
wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t know how to thank you enough.
D«ar Sir, I shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I
come across. You are quite at liberty to publish or make what use you
like of this testimonial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH, Port Mac-
quarie, Hastings River, N.S.W.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Bandmaster to the Queensland
Military, writes as follows:
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane, Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that your wonderful
Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate internal com-
plaint; and that, although I am now over 70 years of age, I feel as
strong as any young man, and shall always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Severe Nervousness Cured.
Stamp Office, G.P.0., Sydney, Sept, 1, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Vitality
Pills completely cured me of a serious case of nervousness of 20 years'
standing.—Yours gratefully, H. TOST.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, Western Australia.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline Lock Pills
completely cured me of a serious blood affection of three years’ stand-
ing. I shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to
my friends. You are at liberty to publish this testimonial for the
benefit of other similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
The Liver Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. 64 Washington-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Your Remedies cured me of a very obstinate and com-
plicated complaint after all the doctors gave me up. I suffered great v
from the Liver and Nerves. Yours truly, ROBERT ALBURY.
f-ff” The originals of all these testimonials may he inspected at Hen
Rassmusstn’s Head Depot


Special Number of The Bulletin. The
Bulletin’s History of the Dean Case. Profusely
illustrated. Price, 6d.
Melb. Argus is afc great pains to show that
it will pay the Victorian farmer much better if
his crops only average five bushels per acre, in-
stead of seven, which latter figure is the forecast
average. In the latter case, the Freetrade organ
points out,_ there will be a surplus for exportation,
and the price will be ruled by the London stan-
dard. In the event of there being only five
bushels, however, that will just meet the local
demand, and the farmer will be able to command
a much higher price. But the Argus does not
advise the farmer to consider this view of the
question with the object of diversifying his out-
put, and limiting his wheat-crops whilst culti-
vating sugar-beet, oil seeds, &c., &c., for which
there is a big local market. Wheat-growing for
export is only another name for beggary, and
until the local supply of tobacco, sugar, hops, and
a lot of other things readies the demand, the con-
stant struggle to tear grain out of the ground and
pay 16,000 miles of freight upon it to an already
over-crowded market is sheer waste.
A CONFERENCE OF PREMIERS.
The august heads of the parliaments of Austra-
lia met in serious conclave to decide important
questions of the day. One by one the various
subjects were discussed and settled in the usual
quick way of a conference, without thought of
what would be the opinion of the individual Par-
liaments when the matter is laid before them.
Federation, Customs-duties, Governors’ salaries,
Postal Unions, Dog-taxes, &0., were all agreed
upon with the greatest equanimity until the ques-
tion of the import duty on tobacco and cigars was
reached. Commenting on the large importation
of Frossard’s Cavour Cigars, some of the clever
heads were for increasing the duty, others thought
they were such a boon that the duty should be
removed altogether; and, after a great deal of
discussion, it was decided to leave things un-
changed, as, by lowering the tariff, the revenues
would lose a big item, while, by increasing it, the
public would be deprived of a cheap and harmless
enjoyment, the retail price of Is. for a packet of 8
placing it within the reach of all lovers of a good
weed.*
The Sydney clergy, elated with their suc-
cess as rain makers, have opened out in a new
line. The trousseau of an expectant bride was
recently stolen, and in the evening all hands
joined in a special prayer-meeting for the recovery
of the missing property. The lady (evidently a
doubter) had just bought a fresh outfit, when she
was sent for to identify her property, discovered
in a pawnshop. The misadventure delayed the
marriage by just half-an-hour.
JUST OUT, Price 2 6—Price 3, - posted.
A Novel Xtnas Present
For sending to Friends at a distance.
A small basin G-enuine containing a
CHRISTMAS TE*
Made of the ir'U.d.d.ing. very best
quality, and absolutely pure and wholesome. Very taste-
fully done up, and packed in a small card-board box, 3x2,
with Address Tag attached, and neat XMAS CARD con-
taining the following verse:—
As something may prevent our eating
Christmas pudding side by side,
I s u nd a small one with my greeting,
Plump and sweet for Christma^tide.
WATSON, FERGUSON Se CO., Brisbane.
Business Announcements.
Try ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF - MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladles, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE
GISTERED
IMITATORS
df
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heelCC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating whatsizeyou irenerally take,
what are your peculiarities— a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical boolmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
Straight away with ease and comfort.
Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items: Oent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s •
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s 6d ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s 6d ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s 6d ; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s 6d; Primest. French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s 6d, Tops for ditto, 12s 6d ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s 6d (worth A 3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s 6d ; Three-quarter, 26s 6d; Half, do., 24,0.
LADIES and CHILDREN S FOOT GEAR to measure
at Equally Low Rates. Catalogues post free.
Thousands of Unsolicited Testimonials:
“The boots fit splendidly ai d are very cheap. You
should extend your business to N.Z., where no such system
is in vogue. I shall do what I can to recommend you.”
GEO. PAMMENT; Seddon-st., Kumar a, N.Z. May 7,1895.
“ The boots you made me from description of my foot
and self measurements have more than satisfied me. I
never had a pair of such well-fitting and comfortable
boots—so much so, that I have discarded all my old
enemies. Your price, including everything, does
not come up to the price charged here for boots not to
be compared with yours.”—JOHN M'ARTHUR, Police
Magistrate, Longreach, Queensland. May 31, 1895.
“ I am sending you an order for two more pairs of your
boots. Those you sent me were a splendid fit, anil for
workmanal ip and durability they could not be surpassed.
I have had them in wear now 12 months, and there is not
a crack in them, and I have no more trouble with my in-
growing nails or corns.”-SAM L. RUTTER, Moorara
Station, River Darling, N.S.W. June 1, 1895.
Orders, accompanied bv remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the address:
Tt© Intercolonial Foot Costume Manufactory
T. E. ELLIS, Manager,
033 GEORGE STREET (Ha ymarket', SYDNEY;
And at Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
gd
Sparkle and vim,
Full of good health.,
Full of everything good.
fg
Every bottle of this
great effervescent temperance
. beverage is a sparkling, bubbling
fountain of health—a source of pleasure
Vou make it yourself right at home.
A X*. package make* 5 gallon*. Sold Everywhere,
* WHOLESALE AGENTS FOE AUSTB VLIA—
SHIRLEY, CLAYTON ft Co
SYDNEY. ’
I-'-'
n
sm
I
m.
CYCLING SUITS.
Made to Order in tlie above or any other design at
2, 3 4 4 GUINEAS,
.Ladies are politely advised to procure a pair
of our registered
Knitted Tights,
As an indispensable article of any Cycling Cos-
tume, in pure wool.
Prices - 611. 7,6 and 7 11.
MANNING & CO.,
General Drapers, Milliners, Costumiers and Boot
Importers,
270 & 278 CoUins-st., Melbourne.
All correspondence to be addressed to the Firm.
Telephone No. 1403.
Government Notices.
NEW PUBLICATION.
AUSTRALIAN GRASSES,
VOL. I.
By F. Turner, F.L.S., F.R.H.S.
Only Work ever published dealing so cornpre-
hensively with Australian Grasses.
Contains Fifty-one Illustrations and a Scientific
and Popular Description of each species.
(Price, ss. ; by Post , ss. 6d. ]
CHARLES POTTER,
Government Printer.
Johannesburg ladies established a chil-
dren’s home for local waifs and strays. Appealed
to for assistance, the Govt, of the Republic
declined “on principle.” Oom Paul evidently
thinks that the sins of the fathers should not be
visited on other people’s children.
WINES. WINE
Delivered free on rail, Sydney (carriage extra) —
1 duz. Superior POUT, 4 years old, !*/•
1 „ Superior CLARET ~ 18'-
1 „ MUSCATEL, Wry Choice, 18/-
The above fine Wines are recommended for
general use.
Good Port. Iloclf, Claret Sherry at 12,'- per Case.
From all the Wholesale Houses anil Grocers in Sydney
and B. Hill, or direct from the CELLARS, on receipt
of remittance—
BURR:WS and INNES, Wine Merchants,
14 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
NOTE.- Invalid Port : the FINEST the Colony
produces and the BEST that MONEY can buy, per 1 doz.
Case, 43/.. Railway carriage paid on orders for 6 doz. or
more of any of the above Wines—MlXED, if desired.
Amusements.
•THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market sts., Sydneys
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Mnsgrove.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
TONIGHT (Thursday, Nov. 21) TO-NIGHT
And for a limited number of Nights,
e< One of Ouv G-irla.”
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Early door Is. extra. Box Plan
at Nicholson and Go’s and A. Hordern and Sons.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Woods and Marshall.
Manager, Mr. Alfred Woods.
THIRD WEEK, and Continued Undoubted Success ot
“ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.”
ALFRED DAM PIER,
And HER MAJESTY'S Dramatic Organisation.
Popular Prices. Plan at Nicholson’s. Doors open 7.15 ;
Early doors (6d extra), 6.55; Peiformance begins 7.45.
J. L. LE BRETON, Acting Manager.
■p IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success op
JJr. Harry Jiickards ’ New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, AT Is; Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
QJHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIYOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY CO.
jgg” Prices— 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN 0. LEETE.
JJRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
That Favorite of Favorite Comic Operas,
the gontd oliers.
SATURDAY, November 23, for the First Time in nearly
Three Years,
“THE YEOMAN OP THE GUARD.”
fJIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Acting Manager .. Mr. 0. R. Bailey.
TO-NIGHT, and for a Limited Number of Nights,
the Stirring Military Drama,
“ south.” “ south.”
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD as FRANK DARLINGTON.
Over 200 people on the Stage. Plan at Allan's.
The VERY BEST Piano is
THE RONLSCH.
SEE THE LATEST MODELS.
For Cash, or on Terms.
Ten 'STeei/rs’ Guarantee.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
(SOLE AGENTS)
SYDNEY. - BRISBANE. - PERTH.
TRY IT IN
YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
Cloudy
Household
AMMONIA
df
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath.
Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, etc.
Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Allays the Irritation cai sed by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO.. London, England,
MANUFACTURERS OF SGRUBB’S ANTISEPTIC SKIN SOA"
Sola Agents for New South Wales—
I
ELLIOTT
BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
GRANUMA.
“No person who eats freely of Granuma can possibly suffer from Dyspepsia, Constipation
“or Indigestion , and a strict diet of it for a period will cure the worst cases of either.''— The
Herald of Health, p. 64, Of all Grocers; Wholesale, J. INGLIS & CO., Sydney.
Amusements.
>NEY MUSIC HALL.
GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL,
LAWLERS BUILDINGS.
Between Liverpool and Bathurst streets.
s
Y
010
Proprietor Mr. JOHN LAWYER.
Manager Mr. W. P. MORRISON.
Parents, Please Note this Fact.
The Manager, Mr. W. P. Morrison, is sparing
neither care nor trouble to see to the performances
being such as will be high-toned and respectable
in the extreme. Naught that the most fastidious
can cavil at. The order of the hour is that the
anmstment shall be of a healthy and moral
character —a place whereto the husband can bring
his wife and daughters, ora brother his sister, and
know that they are in safe keeping and at a feast
of rollicking fun in songs, dances, sketches, acro-
batic feats, etc., etc.
PROGRAMME
For the week commencing SATURDAY,
16th NOVEMBER.
THIRD WEEK AND GREAT SUCCESS.
1. Overture—“ Les Cloches de Corneville ” (Plan-
quette), by Full Orchestra (10) —Conductor,
Mr. Henry Hawkins, R.A.M.
2. Vocal Overture “ Sparkling Revels” (trained
chorus of 20), Company.
3. Ballad—‘‘Fallen by the Wayside,” Miss Fay
Gilmore.
4. Serio-Comic—“The Giddy Little Girl Said
ISo 1 ” Miss Violet Bishop.
5 ‘ Song (descriptive)-” The Skipper,” Mr. Chas.
V. Howard (first appearance).
6. Comic—“ He’s Much Better Off Where He
Is,” by W. HORACE BENT.
7. Ballad—“ Out on the Rocks,” Miss Blanche
Sainton (first appearance).
8. Dutch Speciality Song—“ Fader Keeps de
Brooree,” Miss Olivia Kempf (first appear-
ance).
9. Song—“ Daddy,” Miss EILEEN LESLIE.
10. Song (descriptive)—“Life in the Fast End or
London,” LITTLE FLORRIE RANGER.
11. Scottish Ballad—“ Mary of Argyle,” by the
popular English Tenor, Mr. FRANK
ADAMS.
12. Aerobatic Neat Song and Dance—“ The Col-
lege Boys,” GUS
LIAMS 1 JACK.
FRANKS and WIL-
13. Mandoline Solo—“ Estudiantina Yalse,” Miss
Phoebe Levy.
14. Comic—“Ta-ra-ra,” Mr. Sam Kowley.
15. Dance Medley— “ Golden Key.”
ANNIE
GRAY SISTERS
AGGIE.
INTERVAL OF TEN MINUTES.
16. Selection by Orchestra—“ Reminiscences of
Offenbach.”
. PROGRAMME-Part 11.
17. Third Week and Immense Success of
THE CLEVER LEOPOLD FAMILY.
18. Comic Song—“ She was in my Class,” Mr. T.
Edmund Leonard.
19- Py Special Request,
__ Our Ballerinas,
-Encored
Nightly,
Young, Hand-
some, Chic,
and Sprightly.
L
I
THE
TA-RA-RA”
GIRLS.
Encored
ightly.
Yonng, Hand-
soine, Qhic,
and Snrifirlit.lv.
20. Miss PHOEBE LEVY in her CHARMING
SKATING ACT.
21. Song—“ The Old and New Marie,” Miss
EILEEN LESLIE.
22. Gus-FRANKS & WILLIAMS-Jack
in their Great JKnock-about Song and Dance
IRELAND v. GERMANY ’ I
(introducing’ their Champion 4-round Glove j
Contest, “ Corbett v. Jackson ”1. J
23. Song (descriptive)—“The Death of Nelson,”
Mr. FRANK ADAMS.
24. Specialty (original)— “ Let Maloney near the
Fire, ’ Mr. Sam Rowley.
25. Irish Ballad—“ Wearin’ of the Green,” Miss
Olivia Ketnpf.
26. Coster Song—“ The Coster’s Courtship—.
Y US,” Little FLORRIE RANGER.
27. Song and Dance— “ The One I Loved Sin-
oerely,” Annie—GßAY SISTERS— Aggie.
28. The Night is Darkest,” Miss B, Sainton.
2'J. The whole to conclude with the highly-suocess-
fill Burlesque Sensational Drama,
ROBBERY OVER ARMS.
N.B.—This highly burlesquical and decidedly
sensational Drama is by WILLIAM HORACE
BENT, Esq., M.L.C. (Most Laughable Cuss).
PBICES OF ADMISSION :
RESERVED SEATS ... TWO SHILLINGS
BODY OF HALL ... ONE SHILLING
GALLERY SIXPENCE.
AFTERNOON MATINEE.
SIXPENCE and ONE SHILLING.
NOTE.—Reserved Seats can be secured at the
office daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Telephone
No., 66.
Doors open 7 o’clock. Overture at 7.45. Cur-
tain rises at 8 prompt.
Doors open Saturday afternoon at 2 o’clock,
commence at 3.
Extraordinary announcement.
Special Engagement, at Enormous Ex-
pense, of the Talented Artists, Miss aMY
GOURLAY and Mr. w ILLIAM GOURLAV—
to appear on SATURDA Y NEXT—for Twelve
Nights Only, in their Farcical Musical Sketch
“THAT AWFUL GIRL,” at LAWLER’S
SYDNEY MUSICAL HALL, 608, 610, 612
George Street.
Prof- Loisette's Assimilative Memory:
Or, How to Attend and Never Forget,
Established nearly a quarter of a Century. Incomparable
for students and business pe pie. No artificial, mechani-
cal or “ locality ” “ associations," but Assimilation only.
Taught by mail in ONE BOOK (instead of Six, as formerly
used) from this pei manent BRANCH only. All ageiu ies
have been abolished. Questions at bottom of page help
out like oral lectures. Endorsid by well-known people in
all civilised conn hies. For Testimonials and Terms,
address—Prof. A. Loisette,P.O. Box 1234, Sidney, N.S. W.'
MADAME PALMA
(SCIENTIFIC PALMIST),
18 Sydi-ey Arcade, King Street, Sydnev.
Write or Call for Particulars.
Information can he supplled from an Impression or
Photograph of the Hand.
Numerous Testimonials from Celebrities and Others.
SONGS.
Can. You Forget and A Song of the Rhine,
By C. C. Bethunb.
The two most charming songs published this season.
NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Perth & Brisbane.


Business Announcement.
MmL
Jiapnem
cures
Indigestion
Acidity
Biliousness
m Nervous
Headache.
THE BEST APERIENT FOR INFANTS,
LADIES and INVALIDS.
Recommended and Prescribed
by Physicians.
Read copies of medical testimonials wrapped
with each bottle.
FOR THE DESTRUCTION
OF ALL
Insect Pests,
KRUSE’S
Insecticide
Is the ONLY RELIABLE Agent.
CERTAIN in ACTION. QUICK in RESULTS.
Is quite Harmless to Animal Life, and can
with perfect Safety be applied to Dogs,
Cats, Poultry, &c.
Preserves Clothing from the ravages of the Moth.
Destroys Aphis and Vine Caterpillar.
Far more effectual than Tobacco Smoke in
Ferneries.
BEWARE OF USELESS IMITATIONS,
and see that you get
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE.
In TINS at Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., & 10s. each.
SOLD EVJEKY WHISK C.
529 George St.,
fO NEAR LIVERPOOL ST.
OILS.
Paper-hangings.
Paints.
* StS Mate rials.
P/c *o/- e
•n
&s.
O/
ARTISTS
DEPOT.
At
Kto
W°
o°
Window
Dscorationj.
Plate & Sheet Glass.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
i p„t I- ' 'if sien d)
m
\
Ai e recommended
a« beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect in
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
le ction that grace"
ful symmetry
which so favorably
-distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
ate used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from weariugC.l3.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents— J. H. MiWI'OKI <1 SONS,
Chisholm Laue, Sydney, & Flinders Laue, Melbourne.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisburv Place,” Nicholson Street;, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.—Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal. -E. LENTIIALL
OLDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria"
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Dear Bulletin, —Let’s look at this cable
ITALY AND THE VATICAN.
The Only Certain Moustache Troducer.
gd
CAPILLAEINS!
Posti d (undi r cover)
to tin \ pai tof Austra
Ibsia or NtwZt*alaiid,
price, 10 «
*
"11l Try It" Sole Agents: The Result.
Craig &. A.tken, 6SC-632 Georgt-st, Sydney.
VIOLETS
MUSICAL ALBUMS.
Twenty t lousand '-opies bate been sold of No. 1, which
contiins Eleven New Sonus and Waltzes by successful
living composers, edited by Hark.son White.
No. 2 will be published the that week in_ December,
and will contain Fifteen New a"d Old Favoilfe SONGS.
DUETS, and the lovely MYSIE WALTZ. It will be edited
by Harry Nathan. 1/eeaoh t postage, 2d. extra. Whole-
sale agents ; Geo. Robertson & Co. and W. H. Paling & Co.
XMAS TRADE. -Booksellers. Storekeepers and Dealers
send Thirty Shillings for Five Doz n Assorted Popular
Adv rtis d Two Shilling SONGS, WALTZESandGALOPS.
Catalogues on application for a few' wet ks only.
11. J. SAMUELL, Publisher,
Box 1077, G.P.0., Sydney.
‘The Natatorium,’
400 IMTT STIIKJKT, H AVMAHKIiIT,
Seawater Swimming arid Hot Sea and Fresh
Water Hunge. Baths, ..Open Daily from 5.30
a.m. to 0 pan., and up to 12 (noon) on Sundays.
:o:
One Swimming Bath is reserved for LADIES on
MONDAYS and THURSDAYS from 3 to 9
p.un, under the charge of Madame Clutha.
SW A fresh Supply of Sea-water daily.
J. PERCY RAE, Manager-
Musical Instruments, etc.
YIOLINS, bow and case complete, 17s 6d to 200
guineas. 2s 6d week. HOWARD & CO.,
Woollahra only.
ITINGLISH Concertinas, 2to 30 guineas. 2s 6d
li week. Howard & Crt., Woollahra only.
ANGLO Concertinas, 10s Gd to .£8 Bs. 2s 6d
weekly. Howard & Co., Woollahra only.
AUTO Harps, 3s 6d, 7s 6d to 84s. 2s Gd week.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra on'y.
BANJOS, 2s lid to 12 guineas. 2s Gd week.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
C ORNE TS, 20s to ,£35. 2s Gd per week.
\J HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
GUITARS, 10s Gd to 10 guineas. 2s Gd week.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
GERMAN Concertinas, 2s Gd to 30s. 2s Gd
week. Howard & Co., Woollahra only.
ZITHERS, from 1 to 12 guineas. 2s Gd week.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
SADDLES, from 2 to 10 guineas. 2s Gd week.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
FLUTES, from Gd to 20 guineas. 2s Gd week.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
CLOCKS, from 2s Gd to .£3O. 2s Gd weekly.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
MANDOLINES, from 17s Gd to 9 guineas ; 2s Gd
week. Howard and Co., Woollahra only.
ORGANETTES, from 1 to 30 guineas; 2s Gd
week. Howard and Co., Woollahra only.
PIANOS, from £1 per month. HOWARD &
CO., Woollahra only.
nRGANS, Half-price (200), from 2s Gd week.
U HOWARD & CO., Woollahra on'y.
SAXHORNS, 2 to 15 guineas; 2s Gd week.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
GUNS. 30s to ,£3O ;2s Gd weekly. HOWARD
& CO., Woollahra only.
KIFLES, all kinds, from 2s Gd week. HOWARD
& CO., Woollahra only.
CILARTONETS, all kinds, from 2s Gd week.
V HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
MAGIC LANTERNS, all kinds, from 2s Gd
week. Howard and Co., Woollahra only.
1 FOLDING Harmoniums, 2s Gd weekly upward.
. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
*1 4s. PIECES of Music or Songs for Is Gd ;
\-Li postage 4d.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
ACCORDEONS. All kinds. 2s Gd weekly.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
EVERLASTING Strings. 3d, Gd, 9d; postage
Id. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
DRUMS. All kinds. 2s Gd. weekly, upwards.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
Baritones from 2s Gd weekly. Howard
& CO., G 6 Queen Street, Woollahra only.
EVERYTHING in the musio trade. HOW-
Jj ARD, Queen Street, Woollahra only.
3D MUSIC. 65 tons. Lists free. HOWARD
& CO., Queen Street, Woollahra only.
NIGGER Wigs, Tambourines, Jokes, black, &c.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
ELAGEOLETS, all kinds, from Is. HOWARD
I & CO., Woollahra only.
MUSICAL Album. 2s Gd week. HOWARD
& CO., Woollahra only.
T I lOLINCELLOS. 2s Gd weekly, upward.
V HOWARD & CO., Woollahra only.
EITTINGS for every Instrument under the sun.
Jl HOWARD & CO,, Woollahra only.
HOWARD & CO.,
MERCHANTS.
ONLY ADDRESS;
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney.
Ss
\.y
MOW READY, POST HIKE Is.
The ballet
GIRL : Her Thea-
tri al and Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
craoies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a wee k, the
naughty nautch girls of
India, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers.musioians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.”
Send Stamps or Postal Notes to JIAJIAIIE I*ANJKA,
Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
MADAME’S Select List of UNIQUE BOOKS
Post Free on Application.
Snakebite Antidote
POCKET CASES.
Snake-Bite AnHd<Sle Case
ÜBHUCK,SYDNEY.
For Dr. Mueller’s
Successful Treatment of
Snakebite by the Hypo-
dermic Injection of Strych-
nine, with Patent Poison
Sucker, Hypodermic
Syringe, two Tubes of
Strychnine Tabloids, which
will keep for years, and
Full Directions Jot; Use.
Price, complete, 18s 6d— postage paid to all parts
of Ansi i alia.
L. DRUCK, 18 Castlereugh-sU, SYDNEY.
Publications
Under the ]iatrotia : e of His Excellency the Governed
i3f” Noted for Celebrities:
TiVLMIA & CO.,
—AIITIST PHOTOGRAPHERS—
-119 Swanston Street (opp. Town Hall),
MELBOURNE.
Paris Panels, 20/- per doz.; Cabinets, 15/-
NEW POPULAR SONG, by Lindsay Lennox
(Composer of “ Love’s Golden Dream ”),
“Love’s Vesper Hour.”
Also, “ LOVE’S VESPER WALTZ,” by Theo. Bonhkcb
Price, (id. each.
And 1000 other popular songs, duets, waltzes, etc.,
at 3d. each, of all dealers.
Catalogues free from the Publishers,
W. PAXTON »V CO., 19 Oxford-si., London, and
ao.’{ Swanston Street, Melbourne.
For trade prices enclose business card.
fgd
T»HE New ‘Albert »
Aceordeons, two full sets of
reeds, DOUBBE action, Price 21/-.
Same, superior tone and fln : sli,
25/-. The New AUTOHARP—any
person can play this instrument,
or vamp his own accompaniments
to thousands of songs, without
any knowledge of music whatever
Price, with 3 Pedals, 2 books of
tunes, &c., 15, -; Superior tone and
finish, with 6 Major and Minor
pedals, 25/-. Post Free. The‘PHOE-
NIX’ Organette (for pieces, hymns
or dances, worked by the handle).
Beat, strong and Sweetest Music
in the world—a child can play it. Price, wdth 6 popular
tunes, 25/-; large size, 55'-. Only at J. ALBERT &
SON, 118 King Street, SYDNEY/ Violin, mandoline,
guitar, banjo, cornet, anglo, and concertina catalogue for-
warded Free. NOTICE. Messrs. J. Albert & Son are
the only musicsellers in Australia charging for all Two
Shilling Pieces, songs and waltzes at 1/9, post FREE
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Hallo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.', Loudon,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
THE
GOVERNMENT
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
DICTIONARY
STANDARD
, ■ -?a-
Send for free prospectus
containing specimen
pages, illustrations and
full particulars
G.&C.MerriamCo.
Publishers^
40 Hunter St.,
Sydney.
1
-II
SECRETS OF NATURE
REVEALED.
Book of TV attire.
Guide Marriage Life and Relations of the Sexes
contains 50 engravings, full and explicit explanation o
the structure and uses of the organsof life and generation
in mankind ; Marriage, its uses and abuses, the rights
and wrongs of Marriage, intendi d especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, by Dr. L. M. Byrn, 3/6 ; post,
i'-. Aristotle, complete, price 36 ; posted, 4-. Florence
Eaton Secrets Picture Gallery, 2/-; post, 26. Decameron,
3/-. Heptameron, 3/-. Radical Remedy in Social Science,
Horning Better Babies, regulating reproduction, 1/- ;
post, 1/2. “The Soil.” Zob. 1/6; post, 2/-. “ Piping
Hot,” Zola, 16 ; post, 2/-.. “ Money,” Zola, 16 ; post 2/-
Human Brutes, 16; post, 2/-. “ Amours of Gustave,”
from the French, 1/-; post, 1/3. “ Mysteries Court of
London.” a catalogue of intrigu's, by G. W. Reynolds,
2 ; -; post, 2/6. Rabelais, 2/6 ; post, 3/-.
“A Fatal Sin,” by Balzac, 16, post tree. The
Devil in Sydney, or Barmaids, Baldheads, Mashers, etc.,
1/- ;by post, 1/2. Plain Horae Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free, 7 6 ; send for pamphlet giving full contents Plain
Home Talk, post free. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it
should be, by Annie Besant, I/-, postl,2. Wonderful Song
Book, extra large, 16. How to Mesmerise, Thought Read-
ing, Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 16. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated, price 16. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 16.
“The Silent Friend,” illustrated private medical book,
invaluable to all, by Dr. Lamartine, 1 6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1,3.
Can you afford to have a large family? Read the
Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted book, “Fruits of Philo-
sophy," 1/-; post, 1/2. “ Romance of a Fair Girl’s Bath-
room,” 16, post free. Male Generative Organs, in health
and disease, from infancy to old age, with the treatment
of all their derangements, for every man’s own private
use; illustrated bv numerous engravings and colored
plates by Dr. Hoilick, M.D. ; new revised Australian
edition, 26, post free. R. REAR, Cheap Book
Depot, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
A GREAT SECRET
IS HIDDEN IN
Gossages’
PRIZE SOAPS.
TRY IT AND KEEP WRAPPERS.
REFUSE ANY OTHER,
q-TT.T. BROS. & CO.,
33 YORK STREET, SiDNEY (Sous Agents).
“In England,” said Hori Grey at a recent
interview, “you respect the Queen. In Maori-
land the people, who have never seen her, worship
her.” Worth chewing over.
San Francisco, the wickedest, is also the
most chivalrous of cities. Its police-commissioner
has ordered that the officers who lead unprotected
ladies over the dangerous crossings must in future
wear white cotton gloves lo prevent the perspira-
tion from their hands soiling the delicate silks
under their protection. Next, please.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Oollins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery ; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials; 10, an Ornament Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half a million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half a mile
long. •
London, Oct. 24.
Pope Leo XIII. has convened the Sacred College of
Cardinals with the view of consulting with his political
council as to the desirability of pronouncing the temporal
power an article of faith.
If I remember correctly (and memory without cor-
rectness is not memory) the spiritual and temporal
authority of Rome were supposed rewards given
by the Emperor Constantine for the cure of a case
or leprosy in that potentate, simply as a mark of
gratitude to no one in particular. The decretals
and donation were long afterwards proved to have
been forgeries. Hallam says of the decretals
(giving one or other of the powers) : “ Upon these
spurious decretals was built the great fabric of
Papal supremacy, a fabric which has stood when
its foundations have crumbled.” I make no com-
ment, but I have a bet to Iay.— SCOTTY THE
W HINKLER.
The most monstrously absurd feature of
the China-Russia alliance scare was a cable
announcement, from a Parisian paper, that
“ Emperor William of Germany has promised to
support Russia in the East.” In the first place,
William isn’t an irresponsible potentate, who can
back up any sort of promise with the force of the
German army. In the next place he is personally
bound to be as anti-Russian in sentiment as the
people he “rules.” When any matter of Great
Britain v. Russia threatens to bring about a war
the Germans favor the easy and accessible island
which so many of them have adopted. For one
German who learns the Russian language and
goes to Russia “on the make,” there are 50 who
take their knowledge of English to one or other
country where it is spoken. Apart from which
important consideration, Russians are just now
thought of in Germany as blawsted foreigners,
whom Frenchmen effusively slobber over, a touch
of national insanity that tends to make-the Ger-
mans and British more of one kin than usual.
For rheumatism use Oolemane and Suns
Eucalypte Special Oil.*
A Bulletin man had a horrid dream the
other night. He dreamt that an attorney was con-
victed of conspiracy and sentenced to some term
or other in gaol—he couldn’t catch the exact
sentence, for the end of the Judge’s wig had got
into his mouth, and made his utterance thick and
indistinct. Then the Judge took the end of his
wig out of his mouth and told the attorney that
he w r as a misguided young man, with a great com-
mand of fine language, yet, at the worst, he had
only conspin d to prove a guilty person innocent,
whereas another attorney (whose name The
Bulletin didn't catch distinctly, for the Judge’s
wig got into his mouth again) had committed the
much worse sin of conspiring to prove an innocent
person guilty ; and he hadn’t added pei jury to his
other sms, while the other man had ; and he was
young, just like the other man ; and, as the other
man had been released under the First Offenders’
Act, he couldn’t do less than release this attorney
also. He then went on to add that the second
attorney didn’t seem to have any influential rela-
tive-, like the other man, but that didn’t signify
in the-least, as the law cared nothing about influ-
ential relatives. Then the end of his wig got into
his mouth again and choked his utterance, and,
before he had done picking the end of it out of his
teeth, The Bulletin man awoke.


The Only Legalised Lottery in Australia.
BANK OB TAN DIEMEN’S LAND.
Grand Lottery.
SANCTIONED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT OF TASMANIA, 57 VIC., No. 2, 1893.
SECOND DISTRIBUTION OP PROPERTIES,
Total Value, £50,000.
ijf ■ —I N
200,000 Tickets at Five (55.) Each.
Ilia SECOND DISTRIBUTION of PROPERTIES, authorised under the Lottery Act,
will .include the following
MAGNIFICENT PRIZES !
Prize.
1. Orient Hotel ... ...
2. Bank Premises, Launceston ...
3. Bank Premises, Devon port ...
4. Orchard, Glenorch.y
5. All Nations Hotel, Zeehan, let at
rental £220
6. Royal Exchange Hotel, Zeehan, let
at rental <£2oo ...
7. Store, Orchard, etc., Huonville
8. Meadowbauks listate
11* Federal Hotel, Zeehan ;or cash less
10 per cent.
10. Residence, 18 rooms (weatherboard,
Don ; or cash less 10 per cent.
11. Hall and Offices, Zeehan ; or cash
less 10 per Cent. ...
12. Orchard, Hi ion
13. Cottage, Launceston
!■£ Cottage, Hobart . .
15. 214 Acres Land, Castra
16. Cottage, Forth
17. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive
18. J - 74 Acres Lands, Cumberland
19. Cottage and, 30 Acres Land, Ship-
■c weight’s Point ...
20. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive
21. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive''';
22. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive
23. Building Site, Bellerive
24.. Cottage, Launceston ... ...
25 to 29. Five Allot nents,
£lOO each, or cash less 10 per cent.
30 do 34. Five Allotme-nts, Hobart—
£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent.
35 to 44. Ten Allotments, Penguin—
£so each, or cash less 10 per cent.
45 and 46.. Two Cottages, Don—£so
each, or cash less 10 per cent.
47 and 48. Two Cottages, Don—£so
each, or cash,less 10 per cent.
Value.
£13,500
8,000
- 5,000
4.000
3.000
2.500
2,250
2.000
1.500
1,000
500
450
400
300
300
250
220
210
200
200
200
200
200
200
500
500
500
100
100
Pnze. Value.
49. One Cottage, Don—<£so, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... .£5O
50. Two Stables, Don —.£5O, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 50
51. Allotment, Turton-street, Devonport
.£5O, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 50
52. Allotment, Northam— <£so, or cash
less 10 per cent. ... ... ... 50
53 and 54. Two Building Allotments,
Launceston—.£so each, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... ICq
55 to 58. Four Cottages, Don —.£25 each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 100
59 to Gl. Three Cottages, Don—£2s each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 75
62 to GG. Five Allotments, Latrobe—<£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 125
67 to 70. Four Allotments, Leith—£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
71 to 74. Four Allotments, Penguin—
<£2s each, or cash less 10 per cent. 100
75 to 124. Fifty |-Acre Lots, Strahan—
■£lo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
125 to 145. Twenty-one Building Lots,
Don—.£s each, or cash less 10 per
ceut - ■•. ... ... 105
14G to 168. Twenty-three Building Lots,
Don —£5 each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ... ... ... 115
IG9 to 188. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
189 to 208. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don—
=£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
209 to 221. Sixteen 1 Acre Lots, Don—
<£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 80
£50,080
The List will CLOSE not later than December 31, 1895.
In the event of the total number of Tickets not being SOLD, the Drawing will take place prorata
and a proportionate number of the alternative Cush Prizes will be included in such drawing. ’
APPLICATIONS FOR TICKETS will be received by the Trustees at the Bank Offices Collins-'
street, Hobart ; and also at the Lottery Offices, Miller’s Buildings, Murray -street, Hobart. ’
G. P. FITZGERALD,
Bunt Offices, August 23, 1895. For Self iu.d Ou-Tcustee.
EASY RUNNING
U
NEW H
77
SEWING MACHINES.
STYLE No. 14.
CASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYMENT.
Perfect in Every Particular,
The Best Attachmen's, the Finest Wood-
work, and a'l the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
II Ni) MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having- been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGiiL, we can
n ov supply'ber well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by post,. Bd.
fg
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
iu Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guaiautee to thoroughly llepair
Sewing Machines of any make.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
: - 746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
OF THE
The apparently-unfounded ground of op-
position to the national purchase of artist Tur-
ner's house at Chelsea is that it was a brothel.
Sample of impregnably conclusive evi-
dence given by a Sydney solicitor in rebuttal of a
sinister allegation : “I only took £1 from her to
'o on with the case, and I should not have been
satisfied with that if I had known she had <£C4 in
the bank ” :
Breathes there a shark with soul so dead,
A lawyer-shark who heard this said.
Who could have thought the matter minced,
And heard his brother, unconvinced ?
If such there be, we pray you, mark
Him well. He’s fit for Cullan Park.
11l a shell recently found by a N. Queens-
land pearler were discovered twin pearls, joined
together—one of a silvery hue, the other jet-
black. The twins were of good lustre and nicely-
rounded form except at the join. The singular
combination is, it is believed, unprecedented. The
owner actually wanted, at first, to separate them.
American millionaire story, told by well-
known mining-man from Yankeeland. The mil-
lionaire and his son were at breakfast in a palatial
’Frisco hotel, and the young man was very rude
to the waiter. “Don’t speak like that to the
waiter,’’ said the old man, reprovingly; “he
might spit in our food before bringing it to us.”
SHOPPING BY POST.
ORIENT CLOTHING
ACKNOWLEDGED THE
Best, Cheapest and Most Durable Eeady-made Clothing
PHOCUIiABLE FOE BOYS’ AND MEN’S WEAK.
The Orient Clothing in all textures, suitable for
Office, Walking, Picnicking,
Business, Riding, Sport,
Evening Wear, Travelling, Bush,
A-nd. School or Seat: Wear.
The Materials are Wool Doubly Shrunk. The Patterns Choice and Useful.
Ihe Cut, Style and finish Unequalled. The Value Unrivalled.
df
First Quality Men’s Suits, 40/-
Extra „ „ 45/-
Speclal „ „ 50/-
SAMPLES and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS
FREE ON REQUEST.
Carriage paid on all Parcels of £2 & upv/ards
(FURNISHINGS EXCEPTED).
m
1
m
r*
David Jones & Company
(OPPOSITE GENERAL POST OFFICE),
George & Barrack Streets, Sydney.
3E2/0-A.ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
8?
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Hallway
Lo c o in o ti ves,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial, Manager.
Also Representative for the “ THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.
Great Distribution
—OF— _
Sydney City & Suburban
FREEHOLD PROPERTY,
BY THE
Equitable Building* Society,
BRISBAKTE
(Incorporated according to Act of Parliament).
Issue of £150,000 Shares at a§l.
Anyone can apply for Shares. No Liability,
Ballot: 20tli December, 1395
COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT :
Hon. B. B. Moreton. Hon. John Donaldson. Acheson Overend, Esq., C.E.
SYDNEY BOARD OF REFERENCE:
Bruce Smith, Esq. J. E. Burns, Esq. W. J. Green, Esq.
BANKERS :
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney, Ltd.
508 Prizes -va.l-ui.ecaL from £2O to £28,500.
Properties are nearly all City and Suburban many having large rental returns. See prospectus.
Ist Prize, £28,500 2nd Prize, £21,000
3rd Prize, £16,000 4th Prize, £11,250
sth Prize, £7OOO,
and 503 other Prizes, ranging from- <£6500
to £2O.
£1 may win £125,910 worth of Properties.
■_ Shares and all information apply to Secretary, 212 Queen-st. Brisk anf ■
G. C. Chalmers, 72 Pxtt-st., Sydney, who will act as agent for the Society in JS T .S. W. ’
VAmV S A T?A o^rT^? r f Win Q . Will absolutely take P ]ace on 20th December.
DECEMBEIi 1895 A110A f ° r ShareS 13 ueuesaury > as Lisfc cIos “ TUESDAY
or to
1895.
17th


r
A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Shin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
{Late President of the Royal College qj Surgeons , England.y
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears* Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
§nd the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps.
vv>«;
m
ar
(A
Wiiiiil
\
m
k \
■
,
\
m
s\
«//; j
mm
a
S 3
Since Then .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met Jack Ellis in town to-day—
Jack Ellis, my old mate, Jack-
Ten years ago, from the Caatlereagh,
We carried our swags together away
To the Never-Again, Out Back.
But times have altered since those old days,
And the times have changed the men.
Ah,-well 1 there’s little to blame or praise—
Jack Ellis and I have tramped long ways
On different tracks since then,
His hat was battered, his coat was green,
The toes of his boots were through,
But the pride was his I It was I felt mean—
I wished my collar was not so clean,
And the clothes I wore so new.
He saw me first, and ho knew ’twas I
The holiday swell he met.
Why have we no faith in each other ? Ah, w r hy ?
For he made as though he would pass me by,
He thought that I might forget.
Ho ought to have known me better than that,
By the tracks we tramped far out—
The sweltering scrub and the blazing flat,
When the heat came down through each old felt
hat
In the hell-born western drought;
The cheques we made and the shanty sprees,
The camps in the great blind scrub,
The long wet tramps when the plains were seas
And the oracles worked in days like these
For rum and tobacco and grub.
Could I forget how we struck “ the same
Old tale ” in the nearer West,
When the first great test of our friendship came
But—well, thtre’s little to praise or blame
If our mateship stood the test.
“ Heads !” he laughed (but his face was stern)—-
“ Tails 1” and a friendly oath ;
We loved her fair, we had much to learn,
And each was stabbed to the heart in turn
By the girl who —loved us both.
Or the last day lost on the lignum plain,
When I staggered, half-blind, half-dead
With a burning throat and a tortured brain,
And the tank when we came to the track again
Was seventeen miles ahead.
Then life seemed finished—then death began
As down in the dust I sank,
But he stuck to his mate as a bushman can
Till I heard him saying, “ Bear up, old man ! ’
In the shade by the mulga tank.
He took my hand in a distant way
(I thought how we parted last),
And we seemed like men who have nought to say
And who meet —“Good-day,” and who part
“ Good-day,”
Who never have shared the past.
I asked him in for a drink with me
Jack Ellis—my old mate, Jack —
But his manner no longer was careless and free,
He followed, but not with the grin that he
Woie always in days Out Back.
I tried to live in the past once more—
Or the present and past combine,
But the days between I could not ignore—
I couldn’t help notice the clothes ho wore
And ho couldn’t bub notice mine.
Ho placed bis glass on the polished bar
And ho wouldn’t fill up again ;
For be is prouder than most men are
Jack Ellis and I have tramped too far
On different tracks “since then.”
He said that he bad a mate to meet,
And “ I’ll see you again,” said ho,
And ho hurried away through the crowded street,
And the rattle of ’buses and scrape of feet
Seemed suddenly loud to me.
And I almost wished that the time were come
When less will be left to Fate—
When boys will start on the track from home
With equal chances, and no old chum
Have more or less than his mate.
H.L.
“ Beauty is Nature’s coin.”—Comus.
Not for Joe—Potiphar’s wife. —L. Y.
Guardian.
“ There is not one man in 7500 that can
tell what a pictured face is intended to express.
There is not one man in 500 that can go into a
court-room and be sure that be will not mistake
some harmless innocent of a juryman for the
black-hearted assassin on trial. Yet such people
talk of ‘ character ’ and presume to interpret ‘ ex-
pression ’ in pictures.”— Mark Twain in “Inno-
cents Abroad.”
A correspondent:—“N.S.W, Customs
landing waiters (the most responsible officers in
the department, for they see the goods, while
others see only papers which profess to relate to
the goods) receive 2s. an hour overtime. But they
must not earn more than .£1 per night, though
they remain on duty from 5 p.m. till 8 a.m.,
which brings the 2s. down to Is. 4d. Wharf-
laborers receive Is. 6d. an hour for night-work.”
Prof. Jenks in his “ History of the Austra-
lasian Colonies,” just published, ascribes the
beastly Austwalian prejudice against Ah Sin and
00. to the opium war of 1841, when a rumour that
the Ohows meant bo poison their tea chests struck
terror to the soul of this continent. Jenks must
be rather previous. Within the past eight years,
or so, Melbourne Argus declared that anci-Chow
sentiment was a novelty introduced by a “dis-
reputable Sydney newspaper,” and forming its
“sole stock in trade.” The Bulletin was the
d. S. n. in question.
“ The square,” exclaimed, a pint - pot
philosopher the other day, “is entirely an artificial
conceit due to the limitations of the human mind.
Search all through Nature and nothing square or
really straight can be found. Everything is the
section of a circle, or the combination of sections
of circles. Yet man will persist in having things
about him that are square ; in worrying his neigh-
bors into being square; and in attempting to be
square himself. Look, for instance, at Melbourne I
The streets are laid out in squares, and what is
the result? Why, simply, that through constantly
turning corners the citizens have acquired habits
of motion like the knight in chess. They can’t go
straight forward if they try. There is only one
cure for the Southern Sodom : it must be
demolished and rebuilt in crescents.”
Echoes from Drought-Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Players for rain are only effectual in the
coastal districts. There is no Providence “out-
back.” Away in the western districts of N.S.
Wales and Queensland the drought is still
supreme.
* « •
The river Darling is a visible sign of the
future’s gloomy outlook. She creeps over her
shallows at funeral pace, while here and there
small soakage-springs leak through the high
hanks in noble hut feeble effort to assist their
once powerful mistress. The creeks that fed the
river have long since ceased moaning, and all the
tanks are dry. Every pot-hole is lined with car-
cases. Crows, hawks and dingoes feast gloriously;
and the wandering sundowner, who seldom washes,
is now substantially excused. The ghastly country
west of the “ gutter ” is once more a credit to its
title, “Land of Droughts.”
• * *
One class of western people never fully
realise a calamity until it is over. These folk still
close the other eye to look skywards, and in grave,
mysterious accents whisper, “ It’s going to be a
drought.” Another class —the far-seeing lot— in-
stead of sinking tanks are building dams round
their half-acre cultivation paddocks, by way of pre-
paration for the flood, which they already swear
will follow the drought.
• • •
Shearing has begun later than usual, and
is carried on under extreme difficulties —the sheep
being too weak to travel. It is pitiful to watch
the starving creatures stagger up to the sheds.
To lie down means certain death to most of them,
as few would be able to rise again. The poor
animals seem to know this, and try their utmost
to keep on their legs by leaning against the gates
and fences. Most large holdings will be compelled
to shear part of their sheep under bough sheds in
the paddocks. Unionists, “scabs” and black-
legs are to-day working peacefully side by side,
forgetful of last year’s trouble. Strikes are out
of the question this season : neither side can afford
them. Nature, in her own decisive way, has
silenced “ Slingem, Orabbit and Co.” and their
Bth clause. The clip is of but medium quality
and poor in quantity, the staple being short. The
wool lacks weight and life — i.e., yolk ; cause, want
of green feed.
« # •
The recent election was a welcome break
in the monotony of N.S.W, backblocks existence.
A commercial traveller commented upon the
quietude of a Darling River township. “ Yer
orter ve been here a week er two ago,” exclaimed a
strapping young native of 20 years. “ My wurd !
it wuz lively here then !” “ Ah ! what was on —a
Wedding?” “No-o-00, it wasn’t no wedding, it
was—l fergit What yer call it—it was —well, yer
Know the time when everybody is blind drunk.”
■ ‘ An election ? ” “ Oom, a ’leckshun.”
* # #
In another river-township a Freetrade
candidate thus illustrated “ unearned incre-
ment ’ “ Supposing a person here had bought a
block of land in your rising (!) town and then went
up in a balloon or to the bottom of the sea in a
diving-bell, or committed suicide, or went to gaol
and returned ten years after, he’d find his land
w orth five times the value he’d originally paid for
it.” There was neither giggle nor murmur
Back-country people make a kind and generous
audience.
• # .
Swag-carrying women are common on tJie
lonely Western roads, and hereby hangs a story.
A Sydney youth in depressed circumstances
dressed up his best girl in a loud suit of Ms own
clothes and faced with her the P.U. office in search
of work. Both got a job at a shearing shed one
the Q. border. Provided with a conditional rail-
way-pass they trained it to Bourke, and thence
walked to their destination —-200 miles off. Bare ;
footed, girlish-looking youths are roaming about
the backblocks in numbers, nowadays, and the
romantic pair passed unnoticed. Arrived at the
shed the young man went shearing and his
girl mate “ picking - up.” The nice-looking
“ picker-up ” soon became the favorite of all
hands. Nobody even suspected her sex until
“cutting-out” day. It’s a beastly but common
practice amongst shearers at “ cut-out time ’ to
tear the clothes off each other as soon as the last
sheep has been shorn. On that eventful day
several shearers rushed the pretty rouseabout,
and !
• # •
While in the cities legislators, writers,
reformers and agitators exhaust themselves iff**
trying to dissuade people from dealing with alien
races, the Chinaman, the Afghan, and other
“colored gentlemen” are grinning up their
sleeves as they slowly gain a stronger foothold in
the back country. A N.W. settler is reported to;
have recently received >£3oo cash from a colored
man for the hand of his daughter. She married
the black intruder, and will probably live happy
with him —until the first black-skinned baby makes-
its appearance.
# • #
At the commencement of shearing at a
Darling River shed four men put up for shearers’
cook—three Europeans and an American nigger.
The darkie was elected by a largo majority, and
the white men slipped the usual curse and walked.
The blackfellovv turned out a duffer, and was
duly sacked—to be replaced by a Chinaman who
was elected by the same majority. Only one
white—a Frenchman —was present on this
occasion, and was objected to because he had no
Union-ticket. (Chinamen are under any circum-
stances denied admission to the Union). Poor
Frerichy, a brand new-chura, and, judging by his
ragged appearance, very hard-up, implored work
in weird accents : “ I vill accept une tickee si je
regois de work.” In vain; he had to go and
“ catchoe’nother piecee box.”
• • •
A recent issue of the Bourke Central-
Australian (Australian !) prints the following
paragraph:—“ We learn from the Chinese shop-
keeper, Mali Bew, that by the last mail ho re-
ceived a letter from Tin Young, in which the.
latter speaks of the safe arrival of himself and.
family in the Flowery Land. Wo are glad to
learn that our old and respected townsman and his
family have escaped the perils attendant upon
those who go down in ships to the sea,” &c., &c.
“ Our respected townsman ” and “ the oldest
resident ” have long been a torture to the readers,
of country prints, but—merciful Heavens !—“our
respected Chinaman I ” c
6x8.


Pure I Economical I Refreshing I
“The Typical Cocoa of English
Manufacture—Absolutely Pure.”
—The Analyst.
“ The name Cadbury on any
packet of Cocoa is a guarantee of
purity.”— Medical Annual.
“We have examined the samples
brought under our notice and find
that they are genuine, and that the
Cocoa Essence is just what it is
declared to be by Cadbury Bros.”
— Lancet.
NO CHEMICALS USED
I As in many of the so-called Pure Foreign Cocoas).
m
W/A
m
A
CAO#
O
Co
c
o
1
i
W.
a
i.
o
*s*
.
Which?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Hide—Halt ! Make much of your
horses ! ’’
“ Very good that leading file, Price right.
Very well ridden ! ”
“ But as for you, Price left, you hump backed,
dog-eared defaulter, you ride like a dam tailor. A
bag of bran has a better seat on a horse ! I’ll wake
you up yet, curse you, you blanky object 1 Take
punishment riding-school in the evenings until
further orders ! ”
And the speaker crossed the manege, fumbled
with the culprit’s stirrup-iron, and, under pre-
tence of putting his leg into position, slyly chalked
a cross on the sole of his boot.
“Ride, attention ! Walk ! March ! T-r-r-rot!
I’ll bump hell out of you, Price left ! ”
It was only old Crutch, riding-master 22nd
Hussars, drilling a morning troop ride at Benares,
Bengal, and he was a riding-master of trie antique
pattern, and had rather more than ten inches ot
whisky inside him, though it was not yet 6 o’clock.
Yet he voiced, in uncouth and ungodly manner, a
regimental sentiment. For Price “ left,” nearly
the sloppiest Hussar and quite the worst rider in
the corps, was trying enough to make a cherubim,
let alone Crutch, blaspheme.
a * •
The Prices were twins, called respectively
“right” and “left” by the authorities, and
“right” and “wrong” by their comrades, with
the wild idea of distinguisiiing one from other.
Physically, they were literally alike as two peas,
so that no man might tell which was which when
they were apart. Only a very few professed to be
able to tell when the brothers were together. The
personal resemblance was otherwise complicated.
Price “right” was named John, the other
Jonathan. The regimental number of John was
2212, of Jonathan 2221; they enlisted at same
hour and place, were posted to same troop (nothing
could be done with either when the experiment of
separating them was tried); they slept next cot to
each other, wore one-another’s clothes, boots, and
accoutrements indifferently, fought together like
jungle-cats, and turned, like devils of the Rechna,
on any that interfered with both or either. They
were never long apart, though John was normally
sober, and Jonathan abnormally drunken. Both
were shy, sly, and secretive little men, and both
loved the same girl. She, indeed, claimed to be
able to tell Jonathan from John. But even girls
of seventeen are not omniscient.
* # •
The facts that John was sober, a clean,
smart soldier and a good rider, while Jonathan
was in these respects his antithesis, should, it may
b • imagined, have afforded ample means of iden-
tificition. They didn’t. For instance, Crutch
frequently suspected that the Price who presented
himself for punishment riding was not the real
offender, but his virtuous brother making vicarious
atonement for him. Hence Crutch’s device of
chalking Jonathan’s boots. “And that,” as the
rough riding sergeant p anted out to his superior,
“considering as that reptile Jonathan as often as
not wears John’s boots, don’t count for much.”
Then again, when half the troop were certain that
the person lying drunk and asleep at watchsetting
on Jonathan’s cot was Jonathan, the other half
were as furiously cocksure that John must have
gone on a rare razzle-dazzle, and that the indi-
vidual lying on John’s charpoy was Jonathan
suffering a spasm of rare sobriety. Nor was it
judicious on such occasions to seek elucidation of
tbe Bob ® r m , a «* T he twins were techy as scor-
pions, brooking no intermeddling, and were
credited with being ready to reply to ridicule or
impertinent inquisitiveness with a Snider bullet,
# # #
Sergeant Grice’s only daughter, Martha —-
pink, pretty, fair-haired, blue-eyed, and chaste,
though born and bred in Indian military canton-
ments—was desperately fond of one of the Prices
—naturally, the bad one. John, in his cold, shy
way, was desperately in love with Martha. But
she would have none of him. “Yes,” she would
say, when old Grice grumbled, “John may be a
first chop barrack-room soldier ; but Jonathan’s a
wan, if he is a bit sloppy. An’if it come to ser-
vice, you’d see, father, who’s the best soldier.”
Martha flattered herself that she could always,
and by j ns tinct, distinguish between the twins,
until a sudden suspicion seized her that she had
more than once been kisBed by and i, ad kissed
J obn in mistake for his brother. She dared not
satisfy her doubts by asking Jonathan where he
j, ad be en on certain occasions, lest the twins
should argue with their carbines. So she tattooed
a small circular mark on the back of her hand,
and then a ; m il ar l y decorated Jonathan- 11 so’s we
can be both alike ,” B he explained. This arrange-
ment would have been decisive had not John
appeared a few hours after with an identical mark.
Then Martha was certain John had personated
his brother, and her faint dislike turned to pro-
nounced loathing. Also to fear. “I think I’d
kill myself if that John were to kiss me,” she
remarked to her bosom friend. “ I know I would
if I had to marry the beast,” she added. Assisted
by her military knowledge, Martha invented a
more cunning test. When Jonathan came to woo
she would challenge: “Who comes there?” To
which he was supposed to reply—“ Rounds ! ”
She—“ What rounds?” He—“ Grand rounds.”
Then she would demand that he “stand and give
the countersign.”
Now the word, which was often changed and
always whispered, was known only to these two.
Thus was John baffled and moved to a great envy
and hate.
* * *
There came a hell-hot night when the
, . , , . . ~ ° ... ~ ~
* v T lnB were f botb ? ober , afc f watch-setting roll-call
rlle fc f ll oop turned m and for hours ), tie was heard
SaVe the screech of the punkahs ana the stentorian
Bnores of mu ° h T ?™y Atk ™\ ren(W > in ns
own vernacular bug-proof by generous liba-
tion of aralc. About midnight there was sudden
and appalling outcry in the bungalow. * The grim
old corporal in charge sleepily turned over,
muttering. “ Some of those beggars’ve been ’avin’
a bloomin’ skinful of elephant-brand; wish I’d
ar f their complaint ! ” Aloud, he bellowed, “If
you chaps don’t turn in an’shut up, I’ll ram you
in the corner shop ! ”
“ What yer gassin’ about, corporal ? It’saman
"with cholera—one of the Prices.”
And that was true. Between the cots of the
twins lay one writhing and bounding with the
devilish contortions of cholera, the cramps run-
ning up and down his limbs like big balls of
quicksilver beneath the skin. The man was
already changing color.
“ Which of you is it ? ” said the corporal to the
Price kneeling by the side of his stri ken brother,
“ Which ?” stammered the other, his teeth chat-
tering even in that torrid atmosphere. “Which?
Why, John, of course, who else?”
“I don’t know nothing about ‘of course,’”
growled the corporal. “I should have taken you
to be John.”
Price turned savagely on him, “Are you going
to pay out slack jaw the whole blarsted night, or
are you going to send my brother to hospital,
man ? ”
But a man had gone, hot foot, to the hospital,
and the dhooli bearers were even then chattering,
and clattering their dhooli poles, in the verandah.
• * #
They carried the sick man away. His
brother watched him eagerly, jealously, until, in
the gray of morn, when the jackals had ceased
howling and the pariah dogs and other vermin of
the dark had sought foul kenneling, the dying
man raised himself, all racked, twisted, and de-
faced by the infernal torments of the night.
“Martha!” he called, with voice as terrible
and ai changed as his countenance.
Then, and more loudly, “ Grand Rounds ! ”
A pause—“ The countersign ?” he gasped.
Then he moaned a word unheard by any save
his brother.
But the real countersign was—Death, which
smote him.
* • #
Next morning at orderly-room the colonel
read the hospital report and swore. “Damn it,
John Price dead ! Might have taken the other.
Always the way, by Jove ! ”
But he sent for the survivor and spoke to him
not unkindly : “Look here, Price, turn over a
new leaf. I’ll give you a chance. I’ll send you
to Oawnpore to the left wing, where they don’t
know you. If you go on all right for six months
I’ll give you the lance-stripe and—and, yes, I will,
leave to marry.”
There was a strange light in the man’s eyes as
he stammered thanks, saluted, and filed out.
Price saw Martha, for the first time since his
brother’s death, that night. But only for a
minute or so. Brief as was the interview, she
challenged him and he answered after the usual
fashion. But he was vexed. “ You needn’t have
done that,” he said, with a catch in his voice,
“John’s dead enough, and buried.” Then he
kissed her and hastened away, being in orders for
that night’s train to Oawnpore.
Martha for many days went about with a scared
and perplexed face. Yet, when Price wrote regu-
larly, and when, later, the adjutant rode out of
his way to the patcheri to tell the girl, who was a
regimental pet, that Price was doing well at
Oawnpore—“getting as good a rider as his brother
John was, and has regularly put the peg in ;
never tastes,” was the report—she seemed to
become re-assured.
* * *
Seven months after Price and Martha
were married, “with leave.” The following day
she was drawn, dripping and dead, out of the
Ganges.
* # •
Nor could satisfactory explanation be ob-
tained from the bridegroom, because, three hours
before they found his wife, he had borrowed a
carbine and, with a bullet therefrom, removed a
large portion of his head.
# # #
“ How shall I enter Price's suicide in the
records, sir ? Shall I describe him as Jonathan or
John?” enquired the orderly-room clerk of the
adjutant.
“Ay, indeed ! ” replied that officer, “Jonathan
or John —Which ? ”
J. EVISON.
VANITY OF VANITIES.
The verdict of twelve good men and true,
The worth of Sir Somebody's I O U,
The t ime devoted to taming a shrew,
The word of a member of Parliament,
The hope of a landlord seeking his rent,
The chance of regaining the gingham yon lent,
The labor and sweat of a Government stroke,
The money invested irt backing a moke,
The gift for finance yon acquire when you’re broke,
The style of a ’siety girl on a bike,
Tire wages’ worth of a shearers’ strike,
Our prospect of getting the billet we’d like.
The other day a Melb. man, arrested for
smashing .£8 worth of plate-glass in a local
restaurant, pleaded that there were cockroaches in
the soup. Pined £15 or two months. Now that
man is in the soup.
Apropos Gov. Buxton and his indirect
connection with the Accursed Drink, one of tin-
first functions he has been invited to attend in
Adelaide is a big Vf.M.C.A. and W.C.T.II. de-
monstration, which will be a rallying ground for
all the pious teetotallers in the sacred city.
In the hottest jjart of last summera Syd-
ney bank official was sent out to a far-west town
where dust and flies are the only features o:
interest. There were two branch banks in the
town, and the two managers met him at the
station, and, having introduced themselves and
shaken hands, they solemnly made the stranger
free of their bath-rooms during his stay. Ha,
might come round at any hour of the day or even-
ing, each manager said, and if he hadn’t time to
atop and have a chat and a drink he was simply
to send the girl for a clean towel and go straight
to the bath-room, if he could stop and have a
drink so much the better, but anyhow he was to
go to the bath-room. Then the Sydney man went
to his hotel in a surprised frame of mind, but
when he found that the average temperature was
100° or so, and that the two bankers possessed the
only bath-rooms in the town, the real beauty of
this hospitality became apparent. So during his
stay he had a bath with one banker in the morn-
ing, and bathed with the other in the after-
noon, and occasionally he had a bath in the even"
ing. One of the bankers had a room with a hole
in the floor to allow the water to escape, and you
stood around and emptied the bucket over yourself
till you were tired ; at this place the servant girl
used to sling the towel in through the fan-light, and
the banker used to call though the keyhole inviting'
the visitor to drop in when fie was dressed and
have some beer. At the other place there was a
tub to stand in while you poured the water over
yourself, and the daughter of the house threw the
towel over the partition, and some whisky and
soda was left on the table outside the door. In*
this place the soap was kept in a pie-dish, while in
the other it lay about on the floor. The daughter
was 16 years old and as pretty as a picture, and
she would sing snatches of opera in a fresh young
voice as she hove the towel over the partition, and
then the visitor would stand in the tub with the'
bucket in his hand and indulge in poetic reverie.
Altogether, he says that the happi. st hours of his
life were spent in that bath room.
A Xmas Gift ; Hordern Brothers’, Pitt-
street (only), Gift Suit to measure at 45s.
(elsewhere three guineas). Send for samples
immediately ; the rush has already started. Per-
fect fit and latest style is guaranteed.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, OoM Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite, Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Distorbed
Sleen Frightful Dreams, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &o. THE URbi DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ W ORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.” , , A v
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health, ihey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
the world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is 1 |d, and 2s 9d each.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
gd
NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL* WORCE STERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Wholesale Agents: Virgoe, Son, and Chapman; David Coho? and Co., SYDNEY.
’ - " 1: ~3H—feiLßlftW WißMM—
** M --3 ** .Which, literally translated, means “ALWAYS THE SAME.”
Semper Eadem”-
THIS IS WHY
BRAND
LION
99
The
I defy &U
to
approach
it
DA
r
«v
fj
Lion
*>ND
x
as
0
,f uujy
M
mmM
Offices CkAßtMceS T
Of Confectionery Is so popular.
ONLY THE FINEST INGREDIENTS USED. THEY ARE THE GREATEST
FAVORITES WITH THE CHILDREN.
iyr anu fa cturecl Only toy
James Stedman
Manufacturing Confectioner.
145 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
wr
BEFORE
AFTER
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS
Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,’
specifics etc when I will send you TREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
timt is a’complete cure for Nervousness and Failing Manly Vigor in young or
old men. The Homeopathic Treatment cures in four weeks. All letters sent
sealed. Address, D r . IRVING CO., 147 Collins St., Melbourne.
Medical.
For Winter Coughs, Colds
anp INFLUENZA I
TAKE
Boimgton’s
Irish Moss
(Registered)
WELL-KNOWN CURE FOR ALL
CHEST COMPLAINTS.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Sold everywhere.
Bonniugton’s
Liver Pills and Liver Tonic.
A SPLENDID MEDICINE.
Free Frescriptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Life”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility,
Lost Manhood, and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy
of this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Sir
Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD St CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT-
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, i Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious.
Business Announcements.
C ornw oil’s
Extract of Malt
Is a highly NUTRITIOUS FOOD
—FOR —
A riiilta and ln.fan.ta.
For the Healthy and the Invalid.
Far preferable to sugar when taken in conjunction
with FARINACEOUS FOODS.
An excellent substitute for Jams & Conserves,
A Delightful Drink when mixed with
JErated Beverages.
Certain CURE for INDIGESTION if taken after
each meal.
Largely Used by Sydney Hospitals.
And highly recommended by leading Medical
Practitioners.
Only Half the Cost of Imported Malt Extracts.
Sole Manufacturers:
Australian Brewing
—AND —
Wine and Spirit Co. Ltd.,
Boubee Street, Waterloo, SYDNEY.
NOTICE.
Headers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they m <y be unable
to 'procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
“Men I have Smiled with.”
STAY at Brutoxi’s,
MHnamoo
Toronto Hotel,
LAKE MACQUARIE.
Terms:
7/- and 8/- per Day ; 30/- to 42/- per Week.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
ACCESS EASY.
TRAIN DIRECT from SYDNEY or the NORTH.
H. A. Brett - Manager.
Poverty Pointers 2
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
TANKARDS TEMPERANCE HOTEI
Corner LONSDALE & QUEEN STREETS.
(Established oVer 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 pir
Week (single room ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Manager.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at Sydney, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly— Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper,
“The Bulletl n,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and d is
tinctive Australian National Policy*
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
-Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
arge fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and corn,
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the met hods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin Continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to 'the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the chums of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aerainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from .the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily asceftainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than and
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to he addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


s
I
u
w.
* „ , s * • sf *■»
■H
‘REVOtVMTBRAND
British Soldiers Favourite'
_Aoemts V gft EWING C®
S 3- AU TS SYDNEY IS
66
fJlALES off the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
3EaC©a^a.aa3.oo*• ,, 00Ma.03a.-fc (GUARANTEED GOVERNMENT TEST).
HARDWOOD (best Northern).
GALVANISED IRON, “W.S. Crown” Brand. “ HOST WICK’S” Pat. Collapsible Gates.
PIG, BAR and SHEET IRON, and TIN PLATES.
“St. Pancras Co.'s " Pavement lights. " Snow" Patent Pumps. " Boyle's" Ventilators
Garrick s Steam Cranes. Best Indian Cigars, “ Mariposa” Brand. "Bush’s” Pat.
Glazing and Zinc Work. ALWAYS IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE.
Solis Agents: SCOTT, SIBBAID~T CO, 2D Bond Street, SYDNEY.
\The India Rubber, Cutta Percha & Telegraph Works Co. Ltd..
■B
UaitofEis
—OF—
India Rubber Goods
For all purposes.
HOSE
—FOB —
WATER, STB 4M, BREWERS,
“ Silvertown” Grip Armoured Uo.se. SUCTION ETC
SPECIALITY. Grip A, monml Hose—coats very little more than the
. ordinary hose, and last-* twice as long. Cannot kink, and armour pro-
tects it from abrasion, and enables it to stand a high pressure.
PRICE I.JSTS AND FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
SYDNEY BRANCH
• •
283 GEORGE STREET
(Facing Hunter Street).
fg
leva mmodat ion for 100 Persons .
o
BRIS BA ME.
Elevator, Fire-Proof Staircase.
Electric light Throughout.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers
OF
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE.
The FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which
has done so much for the colony and colonies).
The CREAMERY SYSTEM
has done more).
OF BUTTER-MAKING (which
R E FRIG E RATION.
ICE-MAKING.
1
Pioneers
01?
'J he Company sells only the very best articles. Supplying all the pi ineipal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the City Depots (Refreshment)
J 92 KIKT& STREET
1 23 ROYA.X. ARCAPT!
for AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for Afternoon Teas for Private Parties
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE/’ 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
A.geuts
H. PATESON, Manager.
Horse-power
MINING
WHIM.
Will raise from 5001 b. to 7001 b
60ft. to 70ft. per minute.
Weight, 12001 b. No piece over
2501 b.
VTTtim Levers,
****** j Sweep, Exten-
sion Rods, Set of Hand
Levers with castings and
bolts to connect same, and
three sheaves for gallows
frame, price £35- Timbers,
rope and car or bucket not
included in above price.
PARKE & LACY CO., Limited.
SYDNEY.
■
re
SB
a i
BLAKE STEAM PUMPS . D l“‘» plex ,|
FOR EVERY POSSIBLE PUMPING SERVICE. Over 50,000 in Successful Use.
ALSO, EVERY DESCRIPTION OF GENERAL
PUMPING MACHINERY, PIPING and PUMPING SUPPLIES.]
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA,
General Machinery Merchants
— AND—
MANUFACTURERS’ AGENTS,
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY-
And 499 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PASSAGES BOOKED
*SE!s iBS* ■*-* TO ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD.
Interpreters en route.
Trouble Saved.
No Commission Charged.
Information Gratis.
Melbourne: 269 Oollins-street.
Sydney : 4 Hunter-street, etc., etc.
T> v ALL LINES.
ALL CLASSES At Lowest Rates.
Intending Passengers should apply to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Scale of Advertising
—IN—
THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year „
Paragraph Advertisements
An KXTiiA discount of 5 per cent, allowed
6s. jmr inch per insertion, nett.
... 10 per cent, discount.
20 ~
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
for cash in advance.
Christmas ! Cliristmas ! Christmas !
P. R. LARKIN, IMPORTEE of Wines, Spirits and Beers,
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL, 778 to 784 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Reduced Scale of Prices for the Xmas season.
Highland Nectar (Scotch) Whisky, 15
year old
D.O.L. V.O. Special
„ 10 year old, pbs.
~ „ qts.
Walker’s Special
9) Kilmarnock
Gaelic
Encore
Dawson’s 3 Diamond
Usher’s Special V.O.
Uam Var
60/-(
46/6
50/-
72/-
46/6
44/-
44/-
39/-
43/-
46/6
46/6
Burke’s xxx Irish Whisky, quarts
~ xxx ~ bottles
~ xxx ~ flasks
„ xxx „ 4-fl ask B
Shamrock Whisky, V.O. matured, qts.
Dunville’s Whisky ...
Kinnahan’s Whisky ...
Australian Brandy, “Boomerang” ...
Hennessy’s V.O. Brandy
xxx ~
Martell’s xxx
~ xxx
Marie Brizard’s
57/-o
40/- ,
46/- ,
48/- ,
54/- ,
45/- ,
45/6',
45/- ,
78/- ,
73/- ,
72/- ,
61/- ,
70/- ,
Splendid New Season Teas on hand afc Import Prices.
P. H. Larkin,
Prince of Wales’ Hotel ani Refreshment Rooms,
Hay market, SYDNEY
