

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
a
“ The Standard
uf Highest Purity
at present
attainable*”
lancet.
R. a. WJLTKXNS & GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
. 1 , 111 '.r™ >. -"‘H
A \
5<L O
k.A«
m
m> ■*
-% c? 3O 4 n>
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 28 Pitt Stbjjkt, SYDNEY.
bpiNK*
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED IN qUAtITr.
. ALL STOREKEEPERS
nv /V. S. l/V. &■ QUEENSLAND.
ill
mv
mm
ROBERTS’
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
ds and 2s per bottle.
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
Whisky, 3/9
The Favorite (( Four Crown ”
Whisky, 3/9
Roberts’ Special Whisky for
Influenza.
Very Superior old Fort Wine
for Invalids.
R
©BERTS’ HOTEL,
Q-eprge & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
Before vuih’iig fhe o*/ wrifelo fhe Manager tor
Qf3 e| Tariff. (orrcipondence prompfly attended f®.
PITT and HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
-Class Family a-d Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. J3F" Write for Terms.
f,lle Sanitoiium of N.S.W. and Queensland.
Bourke temperature in January, 1896—120° in
the shade. Temperature in
Wickham’s Imperial Hotel,
Armidale,
In the same season, 78°—82° maximum.
J. KICKHAM, Proprietor.
7
Walker, Sons & Bartholomew, C d -
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(NEXT DAVID JONES)
Vteftf. rt ' stlc * deas ,n Home f urn j t
ure at
Smafi
Don’t think that
because our reputation stands high for QUALITY
we can’t meet your wishes in the matter of PRICK. WK CAN and
give you smart, up-to-date goods from our London Factory too. Fay us a visit, and see for yourselves.
TJse “Pioneer” Sole Leather,
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
A RE
Tanned & Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
THE BEST IV THE WOULD.
J, C. LUDDWICI & SON, Ltd.
TANNERS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery: Lane Cove River.
IM\\W
1111#
THE SMELTING COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
Managing; Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office—s 6 Margaret-st., Sydney.
rpHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
* Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in opera-
tion shortly, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, m large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
An ASSAY OFFICE and LABORATORY have been
opened at the Head Office in Sydney, and most com-
modious Assay Offices and Laboratories are now in
course of erection at the works, which will be equipped
in the most Modem Style, at both of which establish-
ments samples of ores of all classes will be tested for
the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
Treatment of base refractory ores of low grade a
speciality.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
PATENT
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Pell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stirring Hymn, the cheer-
fill Song, and tho Merry Dance, can all bo played on these
charming Instruments. No knowledge ofMusic Required.
A Useful and Pretty Present. Enormous Demand.
200,010 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of tlio
"SYDNEY Bn.LETIN.”
Campbell’s “ Gem ” Melodeon price only 10/6
Campbell’s “Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22/8
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, lor the amount.
Kither sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers of music should at once send for our Now Illus-
trated Privlle e Price hist for Musical Season 188(i, now ready.
150 000 of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
’ CAMPBELL & Go., Musical Instrument iV akers,
110, Trongate, Glasgow. Est. 50 Years. Agents Wanted.
'F YOU HAVE
A Cough or Cold
Black @
• Currant
3E5 3l X- £3 jBl IMC.
SOLD EVERYWHEBE,
1/6 and 2 6 per Bottle.
Thed Bulletin
Vol 17.— N0. 870. J
[Saturday, October 17, 1896.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AUSTRALIAN NOVELS and ROMANCES
By J. D. HENNESSEY.
“ WYNNUM ” (just published) ; oloth boards, Bvo.,
325 pp., 3/6; colonial edition, 2/6. “ A story abound-
ing in sensation and surprises.”—S.M. Herald.
" THE DIS-HONOURAELE” : an Australian story
of modern days. 317 pp., third edition, fancy boards,
Bvo., 2/6. “ A novel of intense interest . . 'sketched
with a graphic force which Charles Beade himself
could not have surpassed.”—London Daily Telegraph.
April 24, ’96.
All Booksellers, or post free from Hennessey, Harner
and Co., 6 Moore-street, SYDNEY.
ASK FOR COLOAIAL-MADE WIRE A E.TTIAG
And. see tliat you §s*et it. *
PROG
Om Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND,
£«H7 MSS. $ CO.
LIMITED.
m
m
m
PvDE
TO
3S -M*.
OAf eY
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
OfELoes-
Bligb Chambers, Bligfj-st., Sydney.
Works
Parran?afta Rstfcr.
THE RED PAGE.
For Her.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There is no little heart so sweet
As this sweet-heart of mine;
Nor any bosom so replete
With innocence as thine ;
No other arms in whose caress
Luries such a subtle tenderness :
No other hand so kind as this,
Nor any lips so warm to kiss.
There are no eyes so deep and blue
As these I hold with mine ;
Nor any love so firm and true,
Sweet-heart, as this of thine.
There is no voice so blithely free,
Nor tuned with such divinity :
Nor any step so glad and light,
And oh, no soul so pure and white!
There is no prayer whose pleading tone
Moves Heaven so swift as thine :
I would thy faith were all mine own,
That God might answer mine.
And well thou knowst what tender prayer
My soul would ask that God to hear—
“ May He so bless this life of mine,
That I may make a heaven of thine !”
RENA WALLACE.
Woman—Man’s Parasite?
The prostitute slides past,
AH smiles and whispered sin,
Her body rotting fast,
Her soul aghast within.
That is a verse to arrest the hasty judgment
which would class as commonplace “ Human
Verses/’ by Eppie Frazer (Lond. Circle Co-opera-
tive Printers’ Society). One’B first impression of
this booklet is that it has little value : there is not
much art to it, and in spite of occasional good
lines the thought does not seem of extraordinary
force. But more considerate perusal collects here
and there suggestions which somehow cling to the
memory. There are most in a rudish dialogue
called “Prevention”—the persons a man and a
woman. Their topic is human misery, how to
end it. He says :by living a sane, simple life—
Bent on that least environment
Whieh grants full self-development—
on the theory that if content with mere neces-
saries you will need to “work” less, and conse-
quently there will be more “ work ” for those who
want it, the at-present workless. Tho doctrine is
silly enough, since it is the manufacture of un-
necessaries which keeps half the world of work-
men employed—“ the extravagance of the rich is
the Providence of the poor/' as Ingersoll puts it—
and to increase the supply of “work ” by lessen-
ing the demand for its products is only possible in
Utopia. But the verse glides to a more fruitful
theme the worth of woman « hen you’re climbing
the Alps of the soul. Says She—
I would 1 sii.irtd your dream !
H®- No dream !
But. real, Hot life !
Shk. So very real
That lo! you preach your flue,ideal
To whom ? To Woman, of all beings,
A dottrel dulled by prim uot-seeings,
An icicle through chill abstentious,
A puppet pulled by crass conventions,
A shuddering ielly, void of hone.
And impotent to stand alone.
Isn’t some of this truly and vigorously phrased
And She goes on
Yet such a weakling, so unfit
To earn her daily salt, you pit
Against the great rough world, and pray
It please her not to raid away
The great world’s bread ! Oh ! very real!
He. To Woman preach l this ideal
With calm intent. Who, nowadays,
Seduces Man from simple ways?
Who craves for comfort, show and pleasure,
Yea, will have all in ampler measure
Than have her neighbors ? Who will gloom
And wail, and taunt, and e’en assume
Decaying healtli should Man but try
To pass in action brotherly
Beyond the circle bounded by
Her petticoat ? An l when Man’s soul
Awakes, and, yearning to the whole,
Would soar and spun the brutish flesh,
Who weaves a subtle sensual mesh
To hold it down ? Who? Who but Woman
Could perpetrate these wrongs inhuman ?
"Vet, great as is her power for ill,
Her power for good is greater still.
Would she hut grasp her mighty mission,
Fight duwii the beast in stern contrition,
Trust her high thoughts, her aspirations,
Held (lien: aloft before all nations,
Then Man would da,re to put in action
His faint ideals; then fraud and faction
Would shrink away ; then competition
W ould cease with adequate provision
For simple wholesome needs; and then
Goodwill to all would mould all men
Till self-love would be counted crime,
And helpfulness the true sublime,
And lie rank first who nestles Highest.
And brings men closest to the Highest.
Why preach to Woman, quotha? Know,
Where Woman points, there Man must go.
f f h ’ but 111 homely verse it lays a
formidable indictment. And is it not largely
true so far as the individual is concerned? Is
not the average woman a sexual parasite, draining
hei fl partner s energies to feed her life of gaudv
trifles ? Just run over the married couples of your
acquaintance and answer, Does Woman drag
down, or build up?
* * * •
Ihe balance of literary opinion is against her.
1° be sure, literature is mostly made by males :
the JNevv Woman tells another story—a story of
tier high ideals, Tier noble aspirations, dwarfed and
trampled in the mire of marriage by a brutal Man.
JBut the balance of medical opinion is also against
Men some to business, some to pleasure take:
But every woman is at heart a rake.
Pope s dogma has a sound physiological basis.
Woman is essentially— naturally—necessarily—a
vessel of passion; she “suffers incessantly the
eternal woundof love,” as a Frenchman poetically
puts it.. Her sex is of much more moment to her
than his to a man (except negatively) : a man
may be three parts brain; a woman, to be
womanly, must always be three parts womb —
womb-man,” as the dictionaries show her.
• * • *
There is .no question of height or depth in this
status :it is natural. Nature looks to the race,
and is concerned merely to keep it alive. “ The
brutish flesh ” of Eppie Frazer and others is not a
thing to “spurn,’’ for spirit can no more than
name exist without a material basis. Genius has
lofty imaginations, ineffable inspirations, but
genius had a father and mother, was begotten of
alust of the flesh. Matter is to spirit as cause to
effect; and to blame cause that it is not effect as
well, to blame Woman that she is not fruit as
well as tree,. music as well as instrument, is,
racially speaking, foolish and ludicrous. Facially
speaking, Woman must build up, she cannot drag
down.
* * * *
But an individual woman’s position in regard
to tk.indifidual man is quite another matter.
There it is that Eppie Frazer’s exposition of the
characteristic mental littleness of woman applies.
The same idea is more poetically put in W. B.
Yeats’s “Cap and Bells,” recently quoted. It is
more savagely put—most savagely, perchance, in
literature—in Eunciman’s years-ago-quoted
TO “MY DEAR.”
Your face is mean ; your vulgar mouth,
Primmed with a long-lipped feline sneer,
Seems aching with perpetual drouth—
A drouth of whine, and snarl, and jeer.
The muddy reaches of your soul
Are strewn with rotten wrecks of lies;
The slimy currents foully roll;
Their surface glitters through your eyes.
You sanctimonious cockatrice 1
Were all the pulpit’s babble true,
I’d steep my soul in cankered vice
For fear of sharing Heaven with you.
You stab my heart with dastard speech;
You slay the new-born waifs o Igood ;
All hell alone had power to teach
Your callous, flaunting hardihood.
A poet once lived in my heart,
And made me glad for many a year!
You did not kill him with a dart-,
You smothered him in filth, My Dear,
Ah I dear, dead poet, rise again,
And make the joyous choirs resound,
Your song should cheer the sons of men . . .
A! as 1 he festers underground.
* » * •
There is a converse argument: you get it in
“ Locksley Hall ”
As the husband is, the wife is: thou art mated with a
clown,
And the grossness of his nature will have weight to drag
thee down.
You get it in “Maud Muller”—
She wedded a man unlearned and poor . . .
. . . who sat by the chimney lug,
Dozing and grumbling o’er pipe and mug.
You get it put eloquently by Dr. Holmes—
You talk of the fire of genius. Many a blessed woman,
who dies unsung and unremembered, has given out more
of the real vital heat that keeps the life in human souls,
without a spark flitting through her humble chimney
to tell the world about it, than would set a dozen theories
smoking, or a hundred odes simmering, in the brains of
so many men of genius. It is in latent caloric, if I may
borrow a philosophical expression, that many of the
noblest hearts give out the life that warms them.
Cornelia’s lips grow white, and her pulse hardly warms
her thin fingers,—but she has melted all the ice out of
the hearts of those young Gracchi, and her lost heat is in
the blood of her youthful heroes.
Hm ! Cornelia was an all-right mother doubt-
less ; but what sort of a wife did she make ?
How’d you like to live with Cornelia, bed and
breakfast and dinner, dinner and tea and bed ?
What killed Craechus pkre? The writer believes
that as a rule a woman of his own is worth to a
coarse-fibred man more than she costs, and costs
a fine-fibred man more than she is worth. And a
man of her own is worth to a coarse-fibred woman,
etc. — vice versa ? It is not so certain : at last
Australian census there were 50,000 widows to
only 30,000 widowers.—And the argument may
rest at that.
Reprints.
Some Villanelles.
[The germ of the modern villanelle seems to come from
the Provengal troubadours, the time of whose greatest
activity was about the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.
The form now chiefly current was fixed by Jean Passerat
(1534-1602). In this the villanelle is a poem of 19 lines,
rhymed on two sounds, and divided in stanzas as shown
below. (Joseph Boulmier’s “ Rose ” is a translation of
Austin Dobson’s immediately preceding.) Generally, it is
to be feared, the Enylisb villanelle is little more than a
quaint literary exercise: occasionally the difficulty of it
is overcome in lines of melodious grace.]
VILLANELLE.
A dainty thing’s the Villanelle.
Sly, musical, a jewel in rhyme,
It serves its purpose passing well.
A double-clappersd silver bell
That must be made to clink in chime,
A dainty thing’s the Villanelle;
And if you wish to flute a spell,
Or ask a meeting ’neath the lime,
It serves its purpose passing well.
You must not ask of it the swell
Of organs grandiose and sublime—
A dainty thing’s the Villanelle;
And, filled with sweetness, as a shell
Is filled, with sound, and launched in time,
It serves its purpose passing well.
Still fair to see and good to smell
As in the quaintness of its prime,
A dainty thing’s the Villanelle,
It serves its purpose passing well.
W. E. HENLEY.
WHEN I SAW YOU LAST, ROSE.
When I saw you last, Rose,
You were only so high ;
How fast the time goes !
Like a bud ere it blows,
You just peeped at the sky
When I saw you last, Rose !
Now your petals unclose,
Now your May-time is nigh
How fast the time goes !
And a life, —how it grows
You were scarcely so shy
When I saw you last, Rose I
In your bosom it shows
There’s a guest on the sly;
How fast the time goes!
Is it Cupid ? Who knows 1
Yet you used not to sigh,
When I saw you last, Rose; —
How fast the time goes !
AUSTIN DOBSON.
ROSE.
Vous 4tiez encore petite,
Rose, la derniere fois . . .
Dieu ! que le temps passe vite
Fleur innoeente qu’abrite
Tendrement l’ombre des boil
Vous etiez encore petite.
Et deja. la marguerite
Va s’ effeuillant sous vos dm'gts . . ,
Dieu 1 que le temps passe vite !
Oh, comme se preci'pite
La vie. A peine j’y crois . .
Vous etiez encore petite.
Dans votre sein qui palpite
Se glisse un h6te sournois . . .
Dieu ! que le temps pass- vite.
Chez vous Cupidon s’ invite :
Adieu, la paix d’ autrefois !
Vous etiez encore petite :
Dieu ! que le temps passe vite !
JOSEPH BOULMIER.
ROSES.
There are roses white, there are roses red,
Shyly rosy, tenderly white ;
Which shall I choose to wreathe my head?
Which shall I cull from the garden bed
To greet my love on this very night?
There are roses-white, there are roses red.
The red should say what I would have said;
Ah 1 how they blush in the evening light 1
Which shall I choose to wreathe my head?
The white are pale as the snow new spread,
Pure as young eyes and half as bright:
There are roses white, there are roses red.
Roses white, from the heaven dew-fed,
Roses red for a passion’s plight;
Which shall I choose to wreathe my head ?
Summer twilight is almost fled,
, Say, dear love ! have I chosen right ?
There are roses white, there are roses red,
All twined together to wreathe my head.
L. S. BEVINGTON.
Some Comments.
B.E. : “The faculty of criticism is generally
understood to be the power of holding aloof from
a predisposition ordinarily common to the mind
of allowing itself to be swayed—“ carried away”
—by any influence emanating from the subject
under criticism which may tend to force it it any
one direction.”
Whew ! Take breath here ; read it over aloud; and realise
to what uses a base editor must come. Why will people
lumber like that? Why not, plump and plain, “ Absence
of bias is of the essence of capable criticism”? It is
not the same thought; but it is simpler, stronger,
and corrector. For “B.E.’s” sentence is nonsense
as it stands. Every influence from every subject under
criticism must tend to “ force the mind in one direction.”
The faculty of critioism cannot possibly depend upon the
critic’s incapacity 'to be swayed by his subject, since
criticism is nothing but an expression of how the subject
sways the critic. “8.E.” seems to think that a critic
should be an insensitive block. He shouldn’t The more
numerous and more delicate the stimuli to which his
mind reacts, and the more certainly and vigorously it
reacts, the better the critic. The nature of his criticism
depends upon the quality of his brain and the extent of
his knowledge.
“If this be at all a correct definition of one
phase of the critical faculty then the trail of the
serpent is ov or the Red Page of Oct. 3rd. It has
been said that in the critic who is totally unin-
fluenced by any personal predilection will be
found the perfect human.”
Now it is evident what “8.E.” meant to express. He
meant to exclude from the critical faculty subjective
bias, not objective; “any influence emanating from”
the critic’s mind, not from “ the subject under
criticism.” Yet even here the thought is imperfect, since
it is only the critic’s mind which gives his critioism
value. What should have been said is “any unjust pre-
dilection ’’—any predilection that cannot be sustained to
the satisfaction of persons of approved literary taste—
admitting that a comparative standard of taste is at-
tainable.
“In the ‘Nousometer’ therein given, Heine,
Poe, Shelley, are classified under the heading of
‘lntense Genius.’ Now Poe, Heine, Shelley,
were all critics, the first a very close-reasoning,
analytical critic too. Who stands in the van of
genius in The Bulletin’s mind-measure—the
novelist, the playwright, the poet? Net quite—
the critic ! ”
This is dogma which can only be herefought by another
dogma—with appeal to C«esar Reader. Roughly speak-
ing, it may be said that the most distinctive quality of
the poet is power of imagination ; of the critic, power of
analysis. Imagination is constructive, creative, largely
synthetic. A critic needs power of synthesis too, but his
power of analysis is employed precedently in any given
case : he starts from a passive synthesis, the resultant of
his previous impressions, analyses actively, and ma-es a
fresh synthesis. What predominated in Poe, power of
imagination or power of analysis, poet or critic ? On the
whole, poet. And in Heine? Poet again. And in Shel-
ley ? Poet decidedly and unmistakeably. Therefore, the
conclusion is absurd :
“ The critical mind of the writer leaps, perhaps
unconsciously but none the less actively, to meet
the dead and gone mentality which appealed to it
the most forcibly. Similia similibus amantur.”
C.: “ The theory that genius is allied to madness
and disease is a modern and a foolish one.”
“ Take some vigorous art and compare the
artists Chaucer, Ben Jonson, Goethe, Hugo; in
painting, Millais and hosts of others; in music,
Bach, Handel, Haydn. Bah ! They were as
wholesome as their art, which (art) is the outcome
of their surplus thought and emotions.”
‘Ban! is good, and the conjunction of Chaucer and
Millais, Handel and Hugo, is belter. But so far it is one
word against another ; there is nothing for comment but
“surplus ” —which should be struck out.
“Buffon says the style is the man,”
It isn’t, in any fair meaning of the words in se, though
the epigram passes with the aid of the meaning you may
read into them. Accurately, the style is an effect a re-
sult of the man.
“ and it would take a lot of proving to show that
strong, beautiful work resulted from a diseased
activity.”
It takes a lot of explanation to get an idea into some
heads. To repeat, then : genius results from abnormal
activity in the hrain. The physiological result of con-
tinuously abnormal activity in any part of the human
body is-sooner or later—abnormal passivity in some
cdier part. Health is the result of normal activity in
all parts. Therefore, genius implies disease.
“Again, your note on artificial stimulants.—
what is more recuperative for brainwork than a
gallop on a good goer or a pull on the river ? ”
If these are undertaken with the object of “clearing the
head ”—f.e., of expelling waste matter from the brain-cells
and revivifying them bv an increased flow of blood—these
also are artificial stimulants. And they act, primarily, in
precisely the same way as (say) alcohol,' by quickening the
heart’s action.


Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. 6. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during- which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I he-ante,
as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success.
“ I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured. —J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Taimvorth, N.S.W.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly' and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, My'ers-street, Geelong, and
59 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
d
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist in all Ner-
vous Diseases, Registered in England and the Colonies
as a Physioian and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book. Send
Six Penny Stamps at once., Write your case
freely and confidentially. The charge of
ONE POUND ONLY is made by Dr.
Wallace for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about yetting Married ?
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply Depression of spirits, bashfulness, in-
ability to look frankly into the eyes of another, head-
ache, hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Female Remedies are
always Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
Dr. George On Lee.
CHINESE DOCTOR,
23 Carlton Terrace, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
All persons suffering- from any internal diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have them dispersed
by medicine without cutting ; also cures bad eyes, fits,
skin diseases, diphtheria and piles. He asks no questions,
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs his
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise. Has
practised 26 years in Sydney. Cunsultation fee, 10s. 6d.
Sore Throat and Diphtheria Powders sent per Post on
receipt of 11s.
MANHOOD RESTORED!
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
'Vili positively restore you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.]
«TERRIER’S ” World-renouned TOILET
X PREPARATIONS
Have stood the test of years, and still command an
enormous sale in London and Paris. Used by all promi-
nent Society ladies. Can be obtained in Sydney at fol-
lowing- prices (post-free) Pearline, 5/; Skin Tonic, 3/6 ;
Bloom of Peaches, 2/6; Freckle Cream, 4/6; &c., &c,
Rend stamped envelope for Catalogue. “FERRXER”
TOILET SPECIALITY CO., 482 George-street (Beale’s
Buildings), SYDNEY.
Medical,
Dr. SPEED,
20 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
w'hole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE
MEN
NERVOUSNESS and DEBILITY and
EXHAUSTION should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated
Remedies, which strike at the root of the disease. The
symptoms gradually disappear, nervousness and timiditv
vanish, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
oine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded , the weak and debilitated consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ADD CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. _ If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
The Special Diseases incidental to young, middle-aged,
and old ladies.
IRREGULARITIES treated with entire confidence
and success.
FEMALE PILLS,
for Irregularities and Obstructions. 10s. and 20s. per
Box (extra strong). Guaranteed.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
%
Will Cure
WHEN
! Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Belts to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, how-
ever poor, need be with-
out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address —
Dr* Lamont Electric Belt Co M
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
JXTo Cure
3XT o Jtr* ay.
a\\wvv\ivu///
“Elt
n)
t
rPHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will p •rmahently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we proijjse.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
cail and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list ("post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Add'jnss—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers 63 Elizabeth Street SYDNEY.
MAHHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTOREI
In Four Weeks by the use of
O' RI COR O's
u yF £■
The only Infallible. Rem.edn for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered, and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Perry db Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO TTRNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BROU'n INJECTION.
Hygieirj, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PRdMPm, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J. FERRE!
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST in NERVOUS
DISORDERS after many years of active practice will
now send to any poor Weak Nervous sufferer a Pre-
scription (in plain English) for Permanent Cure. Any
Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp for postage.
Address—
“MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
MEDICINE SENT FREE
T 9 MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £1 6s. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 347, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp'eted his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 EJizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOKTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS Sc SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Ac.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
j reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
| tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, &.P.0., Sydney..
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
filiipplng.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO ALL
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
A *re, Frid., Oct. 16,6 p. m. Cargo only.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 17, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Age, Frid., Got. 16,6 p.m. Cargo only.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tuesday, Oct. 27, 6 p.m.
Cargo only.
Leura, Saturday, October 31, 2 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 17, 2 p.m.
"Konoowarra, Tuesday, Oct. 20, 6 pum
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wit HOWARD SMITH Si SONS, Ltd.
Offices—67 York-street, between Kiner & Barrack streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
Kuddart, parker § (Jo’s [ine
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Boohed Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices r 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
—THE—
APELAIPE STEAMSHIP Co.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
_South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Adelaide (from Mel-
bourne) Saturday, Oct. 17.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, Oct 31.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Frematle
to
YASSE, DONGARUA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Adelaide (from Mel-
bourne) Saturday, Oct. 17.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, Oct. 31.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Franklin,
October 16.
Friday,
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passengers booked through to Kalgoorlie at Lowest
Possible Kates.
G. S. YTJILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
|7IN GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MONOWAI
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £66 to £67 10s.
Combination Ticket, £3l 19s. 7d. to .£5B 14s. 2d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; Harrold Bros., Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N.
Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, .£25 to .£7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.


Wortbii)
(iippifyg Epgipe Co
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence-st.,
TRADE MARK-
Sydney, KS.W.
VICTORIA: Mephan Ferguson, 475 Collins - street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND : McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts.,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Mephan Ferguson, Hay-street,
Perth ; and Imperial Chambers, Coolgardie.
| Agencies
{NEW ZEALAND:
TASMANIA:
E. Porter & Co., Queen-st., Auckland.
J. Anderson, Canterbury Foundry,
Christchurch.
T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-street,
Launceston.
, w Pmr
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOB
IRRIGATION, MINING, GARDEN SUPPLIES, WOOL-DUMPING, SEWERAGE
SINKING, CREAMERIES, WOOL-SCOURING, WATER-SUPPLIES, MARINE, ’
TANK-PILLING,
BOILER-FEEDING.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
CONSULT Dr. FREEMAN.
This wjell-known and RELIABLE SPECIALIST treats
Chronic and Nervous Diseases of Men. He
eures Secret Bloed and Skin Diseases, Sores and Swell-
ings, DEBILITY, and other Weaknesses. His NEW
PAMPHLET sent FREE TO ALL who write regarding
their trouble. PATIENTS CURED at HOME, and
medicines sent free from observation.
Dr. FREEMAN, P.O. Box 1359,
ELIZABETH STREET (corner Bathurst-st.), SYDNEY.
French Safety Fills.
LADIES !
Ty/TAKE life a pleasure and existence a joy. They are a
-Wi- certain and speedy cure for all Irregularities and
Obstructions of the system. For females of all ages these
pills are invaluable, as a few doses of them carry off all
humors, and bring about all that is required. No female
should be without them. Guaranteed safe and sure. Box
posted, 7/6; extra strong, 20/-. Write Professor
HAUTMONT, R.M.D., Victoria-st., North Melbourne.
MACKILL’S
ASTHMA CURE
THE ORIGINAL SCOTCH CURE.
A Perfect Remedy for
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, SHORTNESS OF
BREATH, HAY FEVER, INFLUENZA.
Unrivalled In giving Instantaneous Belief,
followed by a Permanent Cure. Thousands of
letters testify to its excellent qualities.
Insist on Mackill's CURE. Refuse Imitations.
01 all Chemists, everywhere, in Tins.
BAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write-
-29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
4
T*OOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Illustrated Marriage Guide.
A FULL EXPLANATION of the ORGANS OF LIFE
and GENERATION IN MANKIND,
Intended for the married, or those intending to marry, and who
desire to inform themselves upon the Intent and Nature of. Conjuga
Duties, to which is added a.
COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE
Upon all Diseases of the Generative Organs, whether resulting from
Infection or Abuse, illustrated with more than FIFTY ENGRAV-
INGS, by Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D. Price, 3/6; post, 4/-
Amours op Gustave, from the Trench, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Decameron, illustrated, Ss.
Zola’s Famous Novels, Is 6d each ; post 2s.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d ;
send for pamphlet giving full contents gratis.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
6d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, illustrated, 3s.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2a ; post, 2s 6d. Rose Foster, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Moll Flanders, gen. edition, unabridged, post 2/6.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready-made for every occasion;
public speaking made easy, Is 6d, post free.
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics, without a master,
post free Is. The Lover’s Letter Writer, post free Is.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
How to Improve the Memory, post Is Id.
Fortune Telling Cards, full directions, Is 2d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, Illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette -Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress
Visiting:, Introductions, Weddings, &c., Is 6d post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free, Is 3d. r
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse,
n health and disease, from infancy to old age, with
the treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s
private use, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D. ; engravings and
colored plates; new revised Australian edition, price
2s 6d, post free.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, Radical Remedy in
Social Science, regulating reproduction, latest informa-
tion, limiting family. Post free, Is 2d.
Practical Palmistry, illustrated guide to character
reading. Post free, Is 6d.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book; Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
1 he drum
IN POSITION
Peafocss
R«l
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
— No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Voleur’s Original Celebrated Toilet Receipes•
Thousands sold annually in London and Paris.
-OVEKY refined Lady should possess one, information
' J invaluable for inexpensive home treatment of
Complexion, Hands, Freckles, Wrinkles, Teeth, Grey Hair,
Eye-lashes, &c., &c., an easy method of becoming
beautiful and remaining so ! Price, 2s. 6d. ; post free.
“FERRIER” TOILET SPECIALITY CO.,
482 George-st. (Beale’s Buildings), Sydney.
ft
PERFECT MANHOOD
Health streMgth^Vigor
TO A RIPE OLD ACE.
Weakness and Disease of Wan
Quickly, thoroughly and permanently cured
by new perfected scientific methods, that
cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a
benefit every day ; soon know yourself a king
amonc men in body, mind and heart.
Every obstacle to a happy
married life removed. Nerve force, will,
energy, brain power, when failing or lost are
restored by our treatment. All weak parts
of the body strengthened and developed.
Victims of abuse and excesses, reclaim
your manhood 1 Sufferers from folly, over-
work, early errors, ill health, regain your
vigor! Don’t despair, even if in the last
stages. Don’t be disheartened if quacks
have robbed you. Let us show you medical
science and business honor still exist.
The President of the Institute [is the only
Practitioner that has been presented by the
Boston Herbal Association and the New York
Scientific Investigation Society with their
gold medals and orders of merit, and holds
letters of congratulation for the success of
his scientific discoveries from the leading
Practitioners of the Old and New World.
Patients living at a distance who cannot
conveniently visit us, when writing, should
state their case as minutely as possible,
and those requiring immediate treatment
remit 20s. for remedies, which will be for-
warded securely packed to any address or
station. Our preparations cannot be sup-
plied in pill form, as each case receives
separate consideration, the Remedies being
specially prepared under the direct super-
vision of the President.
Just Published—Pocket Medical Guide,
containing remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
&c., sent free on receipt of address.
Address the President, or
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute,
11a FLINDERS-ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Personal Consultations Daily.
Private Waiting Rooms.
Letters of thanks received daily from re-
stored and grateful patients, who had pre-
viously given up all hope.
sdf
of all
I Survey,
MY VIRTUES there Is none
to dispute,
From the land all round
to the sea,
NO DISEASE will reign
over me.
A A A
RHEUMATISM
GRAVEL AND KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
COLDS - - FEVERS
INFLUENZA
AAA
1 POSTED TO ANY PART OF THE
WORLD ON RECEIPT OF P. 0.0.
COLEMANE & SONS*
WORLD-FAMED
EUCALYPTE
The ONLY PURE IN
the World.
EXTRACT
Brawlin near Cootamundra
New South Wales
pLOPP POISON
A SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
or Tertiary KLOUB POISON per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You cat
be treated at home for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
here we will contract to pay railroad and
steamship fare and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge, if we fail to cure. If you have taken
mercury, iodide potash, and still have aches
and pain's. Mucous Patches in the mouth. Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots, Ul-
cers on any part of the body, Hair or Eyebrows
failing out, it is this Secondary 81.008 POI-
SON we guarantee to cure. We solicit the most
obstinate cases and challenge the world for
a case we cannot cure. Physicians cannot
cure you. $500,000 capital behind our uncondi
tional guaranty. Absolute proofs sent sealed on
application. Address COOK REMEDY CO„
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A.
A WELL-KNOWN and respected Lady hopes that her
words will direct other Suffering Women to Health
26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Call or write. Pamphlets
Free.
Those words are
“ORANGE .
. . LILY.
PRIZE ALE
The Most Popular Beverage in Victoria.
Outer Rosalind (( reading a >apev B )
the e at>l /andwe 5t e m breep,
Waft the fragrance of Two Seas> J
itv perfume mounted on the 'wind
Ismo&l extolled hij T\osaliu&\
Theft i’ll smoke no other kind
(Blit the choice of tfosalinci ?
t)0 mij mind will be cxJt ease
While I puff* rnuj cUoiee "Two Sea*.
touchstone. „
hie f 'r‘7X rlvyme you so eight -years together-For&tds>te
Squatters in tkeir leafy dell
Smoke" Two St as” they love so well *
with their flocks xjou please
When you 9ii»e them choice v Two Slab
WorKmen as they homeward trend
fhJY the Cameronlau blend }
w, NtGest people" every dory
Use it inTlWmcest way


T. o o gt
BEFORE YOU
T , E A. 3?!
When you go out shopping, consider, think
of the money in your pocket, and take account
of the many stores whose various attractions
are laid before you. There is A, with temp-
tation in the form of a pretty show ; there is
B, whose wiles are innumerable ; and C,
who says that he is the man for your money ;
and so on, throughout a list as long as
George-,street, each smiling dealer has some-
thing to say and to offer.
Please Pause!
Hearken not to the song of the syren, sing
she ever so sweetly ; heed not the voice of
the charmer, charm he never so wisely.
Your pocket’s concerned ; and there are
pirates about. As the poet pertinently puts
it: “ There be land-sharks and water-
sharks, ” and it is for you to see that your
dealings are with none of these voracious
monsters. Take warning in time, for it will
be no use when the new taxes come round—
and the tax-gatherer won’t take no for an
answer—for you to plead : There would have
been enough and to spare had I been wise
enough to
Buy Everything
AT
ANTHONY HORDERN'S,
ONLY UNIVERSAL I’lCO VIOCILS.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
FOR
BEAUTIFUL HAIR
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
**!"»'•**'**&
IVf.. wg$*,l£ ;.'» »ia+**'£«3
RESTORES COLOR,
PROMOTES
Luxuriant Growth,
Keeps the scalp
cool, moist, healthy,
and free from dan-
druff. It is the
best dressing in
the world, and is
perfectly harmless.
Those desiring to
retain the youthful
;appearance of the
hair to
an ad-
vanced
period
of life
should
use
Ayer’s Bair Vigor.
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
fr* Beware of cheap imitations. The name
yer —is prominent on the wrapper, ana i»
blown in the glass of each bottle.
Wt C K REGULATOR
gsd
SCALE ONE FIE - "
BRANDTS
“ANTI-CANPLE.”
A Kerosene Candle with New Light
Spreader. For Candlesticks and Carriage
Lamps. Entirely supersedes the ordinary
candle. 110 HOURS’ LIGHT at a COST
of ONE PENNY. Prices—l/6 and 2/6.
Postage 2d. each extra. Last for years.
Trilby Glow Night Lamp -200
Hours’Light costs Id. It converts kero-
sene into gas. 16 each; 2 - each by post.
Genuine PrimU3 Kerosene Gas
Stove —No wick, no smell, easily man-
aged. Converts kerosene into gas. Boils
Jgal. of water in smins. Heats flat-irons,
grills and toasts. Price, 12.6 ; .by post to
any address, 1,6 extra.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lampmakers and Importers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
& Bopfr
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH LDREN’S SWEET)
ivA-O&S<rrwZ_>
j
St. John’s Works, W.C., LOa-
vt> Ji
A
HEQ3MH
(3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND tor Pretty Stumps. VVe
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6(1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Oo.),
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.VV.
Madame Rodney,
rpHE celebratedSc'ientlflc and Practical Palmist,
may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
CotiQterfcit Shoes
are as dangerous as counterfeit money.
Both affect the pocket-book, but the
shoe injures the health also. Honest,
well-made boots need no praise. They
soon step into favor. My Half-Guinea
Boots have become famous because they
are built on honor. The material,
style, fit and finish are absolutely first-
class. Send for a trial pair and add—
Ladies, 9d.; Gent’s, Is. —for postage.
John Hunter,
Conner GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Shops and Branches Everywhere.
ASPINALLS
I ENAMEL I
Unequalled for all Decorative Purposes.
COLOURS EXQUISITE. BRILLIANT GLOSS.
DURABLE AND EFFECTIVE.
ASPINALL your own Homes. Aspinall’s Enamel can be used successfully
by an amateur, and should be in every house. For Touching Up and Re-
Enamelling Bedsteads, Chairs, Screens, Vases, Baths, Hot Water Cans, &c.,
&c., it is invaluable, and is useful for Repainting Cupboards, Doors, Wainscots,
and all articles of Wickerwork, Metal, or Glass. A few tins of Aspinall will
completely transform a shabby room with very little trouble or expense. Be
careful to use good brushes, as by that means the best results are obtained.
Lady Cyclists should ask for Aspinall’s Special Cycle Black.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS, Insist on ASPINALL’S.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daiiy menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Biid's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Balling and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Pftwders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
WHITELA.W& CIiMPY.,
Boot and Shoe Manufacturers,
155 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Our NEW SEASON’S TAN BOOTS in Russian or
Ooze Calf will well bear comparison with the best bespoke
bootmakers’ work in MAKE, MATERIAL and FINISH.
. . They are a standard for the trade to work up to. . .
Post free Victoria, 21s ; other colonies, 225. |
Call and Inspect—or send for Catalogue with instructions
lor Self-Measurement.
fg
sdf
H. HILLIER,
Manufacturer & Importer,
135 AND 137
Sussex Street, Sydney.
m
1896 BICYCLES from the manufactory in Birmingham to my stores in Sussex-streetatthefollowingpric.es—
ROADSTER DUNLOP, Pneumatic Tires, Tangent Spokes (also Ladies), 413 10s. ; Cushion Tires £lO
Don’t fonret the SULKY, as shown with Cushions, price as usual, £7 155. ; BUCKBOARD BUGGIES, £lO 10s.
All other light vehicles in stock, or Made to Order. It doesn’t matter what you want in this line-you can get
11 fl A Household Word -HILLIER’S Saddles, known all over the colony for LOW PRICES. Saddles, complete, from
395. 6d. It applies also to Harness ; you can get any style at any price from 303. upwards. Send for Catalogue.
ALWAYS ORDER
“Schweppe’s
As other Waters of inferior quality are now often supplied
bearing labels of same style and colour as Schweppes,
SCHWEPPE’S WATERS ARE SUPPLIED TO THE QUEEN.
The Man with Rubber Pedals.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has all the latest fixings—barrel hubs and
narrow tread ;
It weighs twenty pounds or under, is as rigid as the
dead;
It’s the very newest pattern, and the very latest
grade,
And it cost you all the cash that in the last three
months you made.
You lead it from the agent’s, and your bosom
swells with pride
As you lift it from the kerbstone and you start its
maiden ride . . .
Like the lightning past the tram-cars, cabs, and
everything you’ve sped,
When you see a man with rubber pedals plugging
on ahead.
He is forty years of age, and on an antiquated
crock,
Sitting upright as a soldier and as bandy as a jock;
He is wobbly, he is shifty, and he scarce knows
how to ride;
His gear is less than fifty, and his handle-bars are
wide.
From crank to crank his tread is eighteen inches,
and his frame
Is a pattern that was popular when first the safety
came;
And as you gain upon him you are thinking, “ I
must show
How a good man on a jigger that is up to date can
go.”
You fold your arms and pass him in an attitude of
grace,
When the beatific smile upon his open whiskered
face
Makes your conscience somehow smite you as
across his track you whiz
Lest you show him p’raps too cruelly what an utter
mug he is;
And when you think that he’s about a hundred
yards behind
That man with rubber pedals goes completely from
your mind,
Till a darkness at your elbow and a rattling on your
ear
Shows the man with rubber pedals still is battling
in the rear.
Then you think with some resentment, ’‘ This is
not as it should be ;
This man with rubber pedals Caking all his pace
from me;
Such presumption is opposed to all the canons of
the game,
And if I show him up he’s only got himself to
blame.”
So you drop your arms arid lightly touch the
neatly-nickeled head
With some ankling calculated just to kill that
fellow dead,
But after half-a-mile you are astounded still to feel
That man with rubber pedals hanging calmly on
your wheel.
You argue out the question and you’re bustled to
confess
That the man is what is technically known as
N.T.S. . '
Still for such as he to push you is a thing you can’t
allow—
He has asked for pace, and, Holy Moses, won’t he
get it now?
You drop your head twelve inches, grip your
handles tight and lift,
And as your calves and biceps swell, by Jingo,
don’t you shift!
Then you reckon that you’ve left him and it’s
nearly time to slack
When you hear the cursed rattle of his mud-guards
at your back.
He can hold h'is own at sprinting—that is proved
beyond a doubt,
So the'only way to beat him is to simply wear him
out.
You set a nice two-forty bat, and to yourself you
hiss:
“ That man with rubber pedals can’t stand many
miles of this. ”
Then the townships travel past you and the mile-
stones rise ahead
Till your thighs are working stiffly and you’re
feeling pretty dead;
Still you force your ped’ling even and your han-
dle-tips you clinch,
But that man with rubber pedals hasn’t shifted—
not an inch.
At last, in view of “business” and the “fast-
approaching night,”
You decide ’tis best for you to take the turning to
the right;
And as you swing around he passes upright as the
just,
With that beatific smile of his still glowing
through the dust.
Are you riding to Sans Souci ? He’ll be there to
“do you bad.”
He is*on St. Kilda Road ; and on each Western
camel pad.
Be you cycling in the country, be you cycling in
the town,
That man with rubber pedals will be there to take
you down.
Melb.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
‘ ‘ Thawed colonial meat loses its goodness
and flavor by being over-kept, and it is to ignor-
ance of this fact that so much prejudice against
it is due.” —Eng. Magazine.


Australian Mutual
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEARI
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L. A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL Esq Denutv-Chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; TIIOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.- AW MEEKS Esq.
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE’, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ANNUAL INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling
ACCUMULATED FUNDS Exceed Thirteen Millions Stealing-
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432 523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000. ’
Head. Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS:
MXean Bros. & Hi gg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
UNIVERSALLY liked.
UNIVERSALLY used.
UNIVERSALLY successful.
WATT’S CARAGHEEN
Watt’S. Caragl>€€9
Watt’s Carag^CO
WATT’S CARAGHEEN
tor the Permanent Cure of
COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA, ASTHMA, & CATARRH
ALL CHEMISTS.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
I
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
Theyareperfeetin
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
wh i ch so f a vorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearing C. B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents— 3. 15. NEWPOKT A SONS,
Chisholm Lane, Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
£UMM€R SHOW. .
JUVENILE, BOYS’, YOUTHS’ and MEN’S AUSTRAL CLOTHING.
Equal to Order. 1£&
Fashionable Hats, Ties, Scarfs, sc., *C-
HIGH-CLASS GOODS.
GENT.’S SUMMER UNDERWEAR.
LOWEST CASH PRICES.
£3T UMBRELLAS —a Speciality.
SILK UMBRELLAS —Special Value for Sun or Rain —Bs. 6d.
See oOr Specialities ip JGtfeoilc WasbiDS SGitS.
Opposite Main
Entrance
New Markets.
CrOWINGr BROS.,
486, 488, 490 George Street, SYDNEY.
One Minute
from
Town Hall.
DRVRNT & MAY’S WAX VESTAS
and
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Medals for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
A USTRALIAA BRAADY
(Joshua Bros . 66 Boomerang 99 Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
4ST Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. IES
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFFUHG & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
COOLALTA
Offices : 353 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WINES
The London
AND
Have just received a Gig-antic Shipment of ASSORTED
TWEEDS, WORSTEDS, and SERGES. As these
Goods have been PURCHASED FOR CASH in the CHEAPEST
MARKET, Customers can rely on getting clothes made at
least 20 per cent, cheaper than at any other Tailoring Estab-
lishment in the City.
Our 50s. Corkscrew
not to be equalled in Sydney,
splendid value. Our 455.
Tweed Suits are Al. Our
at £5 cannot be excelled.
Style. {.W' PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED
OR MONEY RETURNED.
Patterns, Measurement Forms and Tape free by post.
31 Erskine Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Worsted Sac Suits (bound) are
Our 50s. Serge Sac Suits are
Scotch or West of England
speciality in Evening Dress Suits
All Garments turned out in First-class
Tailoring Co.,
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
Business Announcements.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
teeth
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
teeth
teeth
TEETH
TE ETH
'J’E ETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute,
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
• ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of I‘ainless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes: “The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
USS" - Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
Sugar. Sugar. Sugar.
JOHN CAIRNS,
LAND AGENT,
HAYING secured large areas of virgin soil
situate in the CAIRNS DISTRICT, N.Q.,
specially adapted for growing Sugar, Coffee, and
other tropical products, and convenient to Mills
in course of erection under the Sugar Guarantee
Act, is prepared to treat with intending Investors
on Easy T erms.
The lands offered compare advantageously with
those of Bundaberg or Mackay for important
reasons. Frost is unknown, damage from grub
nil, and the climate unsurpassed for the purposes
of such culture. To persons of small means this
opportunity should not be lost, as this industry
has been proved to be the best investment at pre-
sent offering in the colony.
Areas subdivided to suit purchasers. Hundreds
of Acres for Lease or Sale.
Enquiry courted and fullest particulars given
FREE.
John Cairns,
Cairns, N.Q.
Coffee. Coffee. Coffee.
Bodalla Cheese
The finest in the market. Our Registered
Brand is on every Cheese.
Boda.Ua. Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
Bodalla Hams
In get-up and quality are equal to the best
English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bod alia Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OP THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229SFSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Tales of the
Convict System.”
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH an AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
City Mutual Fire
INMRANCU COMPANY, Limited.
Head Offices: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Chairman—The Hon. John See, M.P.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £163,478.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
All Funds Invested in Australia.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 17 Years - £125,000
*Br INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Transacts FIRE Insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., £B47B —divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making £82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney*
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THB-n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.O.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ...£22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,406
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices : SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, 60 Market Street.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Australian Branch: W. M ‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks,
J.P., Directors. Adelaide: E. H. Peachey. L. A. Jbssop,
Director. Melbourne: D. Clyne. Brisbane: X. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Important Announcement by Dixson & Sons,
Tobacco Manufacturers,
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSON & SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Price Hitherto Un-
known Here a Cigar of exceptional quality.
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Yuelta Abajo).
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equally-choice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
4 Full-sized Cigars for 6d.!l— wm at first no doubt
be prejudicial; but machinery, overcoming the great cost of production, just
permits a Cigar of such quality and weight to be made at a profit. DIXSON
and SONS intend thq Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “ BONANZA ”
comes as a pleasant surprise to many who, though capable of appreciating a
good Cigar, have lately been prevented through retrenched circumstances from
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury.
Note; Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will be sent (carriage paid) to any
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertisement appears.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, tor transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 17.— N0. 870.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1896.
Price, fir>.
“IT MUST HAVE BEEN THE OYSTERS.”
“ The Bulletin" finds the pump an effectual antidote to the most deadly banquet. No doubt President Faure gladly obliged the Otar.


The Bulletin.
The National Australian Newspaper.
* Australia for the Australians^.
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• & ®
Half-yearly ... ... ••• nttß
Quarterly... ... ... V o o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal bote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drajts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
zrticle, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
my other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings, All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.c., any picture which has to be re-drawn — will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street & Co., Cornliill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
lard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— lF. M. Smith <fc Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S, Australia, Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is now £l, with 2s. 2d.
zdded for postage. England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this ride.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1896.
"Splendid Isolation.”
The Emperor of Germany had just affronted
Great Britain before the eyes of the world.
He had threatened armed intervention in
the Transvaal quarrel. Startled, the British
Government had taken the sense of the
Powers. Who would stand by it in case of
a fight 1 Mr. Chamberlain conveyed to the
public the result of those feelers, in the two
words above. One word would have sufficed
to describe the fact. Isolation. But the
single word sounds desolate, chill, and
lamentable. By an inspiration worthy of
Beaconsfield, the British Minister neu-
tralised the appalling name with a swagger-
ing adjective. “Splendidlsolation.” Gerard
Krefft, curator of Sydney Museum, once
wrote that New South Wales is “rich in
snakes.” The gorgeous friendlessness of
Great Britain which Mr. Chamberlain an-
nounced with the accent of exultation un-
doubtedly exists. It is, however, no new
condition. Nearly fifty years ago Ledru
Rollin wrote : ‘ ‘ England is sisterless among
nations. She counts her vassals by millions,
but she has no friends. England is isolated,
like the lone vulture in its eyrie.” The
“ splendid ” aspect did not strike the French-
man. There is nothing splendid about a
vulture. There can be no doubt that Mr.
Chamberlain correctly diagnosed the politi-
cal condition of Great Britain. The diag-
nosis was all the easier for him, because, in
the first place, the complaint is of long-stand-
ing and is chronic; and, in the second, because
it had just entered upon an acute phase.
Since Mr. Chamberlain spoke there have
been serious eruptions, so characteristic in
their nature that the character of the malady
could not escape the most superficial observer.
The utter and most humiliating discomfiture
of Lord Salisbury’s bullying diplomacy with
respect to Turkey has advertised the Isola-
tion of Great Britain with unparalleled em-
phasis. If isolation be regarded not as a
splendor but as a disease, there is no room
for doubt that it has become aggravated of
late years. At the early part of this century,
after the fall of Napoleon, although England
had no friends, she had but one enemy.
Austria was indifferent, Turkey careless,
Russia occupied with other matters, Spain
too exhausted to think, Prussia suffering
a recovery. Italy did not exist as a nation.
There was no Germany, in the present sense.
* * » *
But to-day the case is altered seriously for
the worse. If isolation be related to splendor,
the brightness is dazzling. France is undis-
guisedly hostile. Germany is distinctly un-
friendly. Russia is obstinately antagonistic.
Austria pretends no regard. Holland is
angry. Spain doesn’t matter. Turkey has
just slapped England in the face. Only
Italy, shivering in its military gaiters lest in
its weak condition it get smashed amidst a
contest between Powers, affects a sympathy
with Great Britain. There have been numer-
ous indications that not inclination but diffi-
culty of arranging things among themselves,
has, within the past few years, averted or
postponed a European coalition, having for
its object the smashing of the British Empire.
That British statesmen of all parties, who are
or have lately been within the arena of
Cabinet office, and acquainted with the
deeper secrets of the inner circle of diplomacy,
are aware of the perilous centripetal tendency
of Continental hostility to Great Britain,
many recent circumstances contribute to
show. Nothing less can account for the
rapid substitution of cringe for bounce in
Lord Salisbury’s foreign policy. His pos-
tures with relation to Turkey have been
those of a man who shook his fist in the face
of another and suddenly discovered that a
sabre-armed bystander was preparing to
chop at his wrist. Again, when the young
Czar visits Scotland, the late leader of
the Opposition, Lord Rosebery, is brought
into the political game, in order to
impress the Russian ruler with the un-
animity of all parties. Before the Czar
himself the statesmen of England are
like anxious dependents, nervously con-
triving to prepossess or influence him favor-
ably to their exigencies. And he has treated
them as solicitants. They have been dryly
told that if Great Britain will ‘ ‘ by some
act ” testify her lack of suspicion as to his
motives, he will deign to grant her latest fad
—reforms in Turkey. This is partly the
style of the “confidence-man.” As a mere
preliminary to the realisation of Mr. Bull’s
noble and disinterested aspirations, it is
necessary that he show the elevation of his
mind by consenting that Mr. Bear should put
Constantinople in his pocket and walk just
round the corner with it.
* * *
The transition from apathetic dislike to
aggressive animosity to Great Britain on the
part of the European Powers must be due to
some potent cause, cotemporaneous with the
growth of the sentiment. Such a cause pro-
trudes so prominently that it is strange how
the inevitableness of its effect has not struck
people long ago. The acquisitiveness of
Great Britain has long been a matter of
comment and envy among other nations.
She “ wants the whole earth,” and there is
every appearance that, if not checked, she
will get it. She has been snatching pieces
for a century or two. She has colonised,
but about half her outer possessions are not
settlements, but conquests. Other nations
colonised, but Britain has the property.
Even Hindostan she gobbled up by beating
off the French, who had their teeth in the
big morsel. Canada she wrenched from the
French. The Cape of Good Hope from the
Dutch. The West Indian Islands are mostly
grabbed from first robbers in Europe.
Gibraltar is a conquest, Malta the same.
Great Britain has her hands— Briareus had
not so many- —on hundreds of spots on the
world’s surface. Whenever she has been at
war within the present century and a-lialf,
she has taken whatever oversea possession of
her enemy she chose to pounce on. And on
restoration of peace she has kept all she
dared. To wondering mankind this inevitable-
ness and regularity of appropriation has been
incomprehensible. It has, like most other
incomprehensible successes, been ascribed to
luck. The uniform good luck of a man or a
nation will generally excite envy, but not
animosity. It is felt to be useless to hate a
man or a nation because he or it is favored
by fortune. But if there be a trick or an
art by which one has exercised a constant
advantage, making him a sure winner
* * * #
Some half-a-dozen years ago a Yankee cap-
tain wrote a book about naval affairs. At
that time the United States had no navy.
Some aged wooden war-vessels pottered
about the ocean, exposing the flag of the
United States Republic to ridicule. Conse-
quently there was not much disposition to
pay attention when Capt. Mahan, of the
U.S. navy, published a volume about the
influence of the command of the sea in time
of war. But presently a conviction spread
that the American officer had said some-
thing important. He had. He had pre-
sented as a system of clearly-related cause
and effect events which previously had only
been viewed as detached and unrelated
casualties. The thing was so simple and
obvious that people only wondered they had
never seen it that way before. It was just
that by the command of the sea any power
at war could multiply the effectiveness of its
forces almost indefinitely. The proposition
was supported by familiar illustrative cases.
The reduction to absolute impotence of the
Great Napoleon, when in the fullest posses-
sion of his extraordinary military faculties,
was a case in point. Great Britain, dominat-
ing the sea, was able, when he ventured to
throw himself upon Egypt, to paralyse the
greatest soldier who has scourged the
world since Julius C.esar died. It has
long been understood that when armies are
in the field, that army conquers which
manages to have most men fighting at the
effective point. Thus, if 80,000 Austrians be
in the field against 60,000 Prussians, and, on
the collision coming about, only 40,000 of
the 80,000 are so posted as to be able to fire
a shot or strike a blow, while 50,000 out of
the 60,000 Prussians are so handled as to
deal out fire and steel to them, the
50,000 will beat the 40,000, and the
result will be that an army of 80,000
will have been vanquished by an army
of 60,000. Nelson fought and won all
his naval battles on the same plan. In
Australia it is popularly known as “ double-
banking.” Nelson manoeuvred so as to bring
two of his ships against one of the enemy’s,
leaving half the enemy’s fleet out of action
till he had dealt with the first lot. But it
had not occurred clearly to anyone, till Capt.
Mahan wrote it down, that the power which
could prevent an enemy from shifting troops
by sea, while itself freely moving forces
wherever it chose or whenever it chose, must
get the best of a war when the regions dis-
puted are situate far apart and are accessible
by sea.
* * * *
Capt. Mahan’s reasoning was absorbed by
the rulers of every nation. The Bulletin
has not seen Wdlliam of Germany reading
Mahan’s book, nor has it special informa-
tion as to which edition was bought for the
Russian Admiralty. But the book had not
long achieved fame when a tendency to give
enhanced attention to naval matters was ob-
servable on the part of England, the U.
States, France, Germany, and Russia. The
German Emperor received a sort of practical
lesson. Perhaps Mr. Chamberlain really
knew that there was an element of splendor
in the lone hand Great Britain had to play
when the German Emperor threatened to
make trouble in the Transvaal, and when he
talked about “ splendid isolation.” It was a
fact that, so far as operations in the Trans-
vaal—or any other part of Africa—are con-
cerned, Great Britain, small and weak as is
its army compared with the huge military
machine which Germany can put in motion,
did not need to care one finger-snap for all
Emperor William’s talk, nor for anything
he with his millions of splendid soldiers
could do. He couldn’t get an army to the
Transvaal, and he couldn’t supply one there
if he had it, and he couldn’t get it back
again. So long as Great Britain maintains
her naval supremacy, Africa is her oyster.
If Belgium quarrels with her, she annexes
with scarcely an effort the Congo State. If
France be troublesome, the army in Algeria
will get no reinforcements, and no fresh
material from blockaded Toulon. No Euro-
pean nation, fighting singly, could gain or
hold any place outside Europe without
British consent. Only in Asia could Russia,
and Russia alone, attempt to approach a
British territory, and even then Britain
could with ease and economy pour in troops
and material which would cost Russia agonies
of exertion and treasures of cost to make
head against.
* * * *
The present trouble is due, beyond doubt,
to the fact that all the Powers have been
awakened to the state of affairs. Outside
Europe and North America, Great Britain
has a lien on the worlds, and evidently means
to foreclose on a big lot of property. She is
sliming over Egypt preparatory to swallow-
ing it. One eye is on the Transvaal, which
will drop to her presently. A long finger
with a fish-hooky nail is thrust up the Nile,
and other "fingers are feeling about the Equa-
torial lake regions. Now, the nation which
grabs continents will have their trade. And
most of the nations want external trade and
plenty of it. The nation that gets most trade
makes most money, and becomes the richest
nation. The richest nation builds and
keeps most ships of war. Most ships of war
secure command of the sea. Command of
the sea secures continents for trade. The
argument is circular. The moral is per-
emptory. Foreign powers see that unless
they smash Great Britain’s power at sea
now, the nation will grow so tremendous
that it will want to buy or steal half of
' Europe for its private estate. The tendency
consequently is for a European coalition
against Britain. The united navies of the
other Powers would be about enough to do
the business. The difficulty is that France,
with her fixed idea of vendetta against
Germany, can’t be brought into the
league which comprises that nation. When
German William was threatening England
about the Boer trouble, Salisbury’s riposta
was a straight threat of seeking alliance with
France. Britain must continue her course
of territorial appropriations, or die. But if
that course be not arrested, other nations of
Europe will be overshadowed by her com-
mercial wealth and supremacy. It is not to be
conceived that she will seize half the world
merely to render it available for the “Made
in Germany ” trade. Chamberlain’s Im-
perial Zollverein scheme is the expression
of the inevitable. Clash of interests so
tremendously vital to different nations can
be settled only one way—by war. Three
European coalitions were organised against
France, by England. France triumphed—
with the help of a national frenzy—over the
first. She triumphed—with the help of the
greatest soldier of the age —over the second.
But even that help was insufficient to enable
her to triumph over the third. If European
coalitions against France were possible, so
also is a European coalition against England.
It would be a better speculation.
The Suffield Case: the Man Speaks for
Himself.
The Bulletin has recently devoted a good deal
of time to the Suffield case, and consideration
of much fresh information to hand strengthens
its conviction that the verdict was against the
evidence, and that the prisoner would probably
establish his legal innocence at any unbiassed
enquiry. In its original statement of the case,
though every effort was made to ensure cor-
rectness, this paper regrets that several minor
errors occurred through the depositions being
unattainable. (These depositions, by the way,
though promised to be laid on the table of
N.S.W. Assembly on Sept. 22 last, had not
been produced at time of writing, nearly three
weeks afterwards.) The prosecutrix was not
18, but 22 years old, at the time of the alleged
assault. This cannot be called a . “ hysterical
age.” The maximum sentence was not imposed :
the Judge could have awarded 14 years in lieu of
10. With these exceptions, which in no way in-
validate the main argument, every scrap of fresh
information this paper has received goes to
strengthen the case for Suffield. The Bul-
letin has also been handed a recent communi-
cation from Suffield himself. It is acute,
forcible, and leaves a strong impression of the
man’s innocence. Some extracts follow, en-
tirely in Suffield’s own words.
* * * *
Suffield was convicted on Bth April, 1891.
He gives “a brief r6sum6 of my own efforts [to
establish innocence] by approach to the au-
thorities.” Until October, 1891, he states that
he was not aware that, being under separate
treatment, he could do anything for himselt.
In October (or about), ’9l, I made a lengthy statement
to the Comptroller, asking to be allowed to lay my case
before the Minister. In three days I got a point-blank
refusal, the Comptroller telling me he saw no reason for
allowing me to do so : that the evidence I adduced was
not fresh evidence, since it was available at the time of
trial.
As already pointed out, the statement that
“ fresh evidence ” is necessary before a case can
be re-opened is an official fiction. All that the
relevant Act requires is a petition from the
prisoner or made on his behalf, based on “ any
doubt or question ” arising as to his guilt, or
any mitigating circumstance, or any portion of
the evidence. But the Botany Bay bureau-
cracy has invented a gloss to slay the merciful
hope given by legislative enactment.
From then to April, ’92, I made repeated applications to
the governor of gaol, and to Mr. , the visiting magis-
trate.
In April, ’92 (about 11th) I saw Lord Jersey, Mr.
actually bringing me before his Lordship in these expres-
tions : “ Your Excellency, this is an absolutely innocent
man, and every word he says is the truth : that is, to the
best of my belief. I do not wish to compromise -—, who
was good to me ; so I have never referred to these strong
expressions of his and do not wish to. But Earl Jersey
repeated them.
Nevertheless The Bulletin refers to them
(suppressing the names), since if Mr. -, as
visiting magistrate, really believed this, he said
not one whit more than he ought; and The
Bulletin now calls upon Mr. , as an
honorable man and a magistrate of N.S.W.,
sworn to do its justice, to step forward and tell
the public if he used these words, and, that
being so, the grounds on which he believes
that Suffield is absolutely innocent.
In June, ’92, by order of Minister O’Connor, I again
made a lengthy statement, corroborating every paragraph
of it by' references, &c. I think it, was January , ’93,
before this was answered. Or, rather, it was never
answered. For Mr. Slattery, during his interregnum
(Mr. O’Connor having resigned) replied: “In answer to
the petition for a remission of sentence, the Minister sees
no grounds,” &c. I never dreamt of a petition for remis-
sion, and in every statement I have addressed to authori-
ties I have always specially stated that I did not wish for
any remission, but for an act of justice, which was cried
for by the whole facts of my case. If I ever asked for
remission I challenge the Minister to show such a re-
quest on any paper of mine. I never stooped to it.
From June, ’92, to January, ’93; I saw the visiting jus-
tice, the gaol authorities, the clergyman, and the Bishop
of Bathurst, each of whom made statements as follows.
The, visiting justice, who told me each time I came
before him that he thought I would have been a free man
before this, told the governor to make enquiries at head
office as to my papers. The governor (Mr. Stace) did so ;
no reply.
The clergyman. Rev. H. C. Vindin, wrote three or four
times to the Minister, begging that something might be
done in the matter, and declaring his firm and absolute
conviction of my perfect innocence.
The Bishop of Bathurst himself wrote to the Minister,
bringing it under his knowledge.
Mr. Vindin got answers to say “ the matter was under
consideration”; “the matter was under consideration.”
(The gaol authorities, to repeated applications, got no
answer.)
The Bishop got an answer to say' “ the papers were
before Dr. Manning for his report on them.”
During all this time I saw the Comptroller once of my
own accord, and twice at his request. He told me the
delay was not occasioned by him.
In the meantime, between April, ’92, and Jan., ’93, what
were my' friends doing outside? Were they not, too,
making repeated applications ?
I have had to trust entirely' to memory in every state-
ment I have made, nor have I told of one-half the appli-
cations I myself made between April, ’92, and Jan., ’93
none of which received any answer, as far as I can re-
member.
After narrating requests (refused) to be per-
mitted the services of an agent outside, Suf-
field goes on to say :
I have made whilst here, acting on Mr. ’s advice, all
sorts of advances to the Minister.
I then heard the Minister was coming here. The regu-
lations allowing any' prisoner to see a Minister of the
Crown, I put down my name to see him. Here, I thought,
was a golden chance. Just before this, I had received a
communication from him to this effect. “The Minister
cannot reopen the case unless the prisoner can produce
evidence not previously given before a court, tending to
show a reasonable doubt as to his guilt. But the Minister
was very much impressed with the reiterated statements
of the prisoner as to his innocence.”
Note the relentless tenacity of the official
fiction as to “ evidence not previously given be-
fore a court.” But there was fresh evidence in
the Minister’s hands : four important affidavits
were sworn by James Warren, Lydia Warren,
and Annie Warren, with whom Suffield had
lived, and by Robert Murphy, his room-mate
in the Warrens’ house, containing a great deal
of fresh and most striking evidence never given
at the trial. Those affidavits were buried along
with Suffield in his pigeon-hole, and the De-
partment of Alleged J ustice, beyond an acknow-
ledgment of receipt, has made not a sign re-
garding them to this day. What powerful
influences must be at work to keep Suffield’s
case away from tbe light of enquiry !
You may imagine, after so important an admission—for
would he have been impressed by my statements if they
were not based on solid ground ? —how my heart beat at
the thought of seeing him.
Well, he came ; he saw warders who wanted to transfer
to other gaols; he never said whether he would see me
or not, but simply went away without ever seeing the
man about whose guilt he was by his own admission more
than doubtful, who was undergoing moral murder and


unspeakable misery, and whom it was his highest duty, as
the earthly Minister of Justice, which is Divine, to pro-
tect, help, and consider. For, for whom IS the Minister
of Justice elected, if not for the utterly helpless ? My
heart felt broken.
Poor devil!
* * * *
The Bulletin, as before said, does not Jcnoiv
whether Suffield is innocent or guilty. But
it knows that, as a juryman, it could not find
him guilty on the evidence now before it, and it
demands, in the name of Justice, a prompt and
searching enquiry into Suefield’s case, with
every opportunity given him to prove his inno-
cence if he can. Out with Suffield from his
pigeon-hole !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Economic Revolution.
Editor Bulletin, —The small interest taken
abroad in the conflict now waging in the United
States is astounding. It is widely believed, by
friends and foes alike, that if not in Nov. next,
then four years later, a free-silver President
will be elected —Congress and Senate have been
captive long ago. And free silver practically
means the discounting of all monetary obliga-
tions by, say, 30 to 50 per cent. As the States
are the most gigantic borrowers in the world,
with personal state and corporate liabilities
totalling billions of dollars, such an act of re-
pudiation is second only to the vast land-confis-
cation of “The Terror.” Many of the Aus-
tralian dailies have stated that the silver cry in
the States is the voice of the mine-owner, as
they assert with equal cogency that Protection
is only the voice of a few manufacturers. What
does the back-blocks cocky, when he votes solid
for a tariff, trouble about unknown manufac-
turers ? In like manner the farmer of the
Western States cares not a cent for Nevada
silver men. He believes dear gold is ruin-
ing him under an unjust contract and that
the necessities of existence should override
that contract. For good or ill he is going to
try the experiment of white money, and furnish
us with a thrilling object-lesson more useful
than a truck-load of tracts. The press of the
Eastern States and Great Britain have consis-
tently minimised, ignored, or ridiculed the
issue at stake ; as though it was incredible that
a nation of farmers bowed down to earth in a
hopeless struggle against crushing mortgages
should kick against the pricks. “ Was there not
a bond ? ” How stands the question ethically ?
If the individual kills his enemy it is murder ;
if a nation it is heroic. If a man repudiates his
bond he is a swindler ; if a people does so, by
parity of reasoning, it should be “ the just
made perfect.” Australians, themselves deep in
the bog of debt, only hear vague rumors of this
strife in which they are so interested ; for this
new way of paying obligations, if successful, is
too attractive not to meet with wide-spread
imitation.—H. F.
«.
Why Not Gamble ?
If Waddell, M.P., succeeds in persuading
N.S. W. Assembly to legalise certain art-unions
and lotteries, his success should settle the
gambling question. Waddell’s logical fault is
that he does not go far enough. He should
legalise all gambling, or, at least, make it not
illegal. The arguments of those against him
start altogether on wrong premises. They
assert that gambling is sinful, or, at all events,
is undesirable. The first contention is pre-
sumptuous and begs, the question; the second
is arguable, and not worth much even if allowed
to be tenable. Where Waddell’s armor of
logic is easily pierced is in the open joints that
would make co-operative gambling legal and
individual gambling illegal. Nevertheless, if
the lawmakers, and thereby the people, sanction
such a law, the public sanction would make
sucli gambling “ right,” notwithstanding the
contention of such publicists as Sydney Daily
Telegraph that public sanction cannot make
“ wrong ”“ right.” It can. Itdoes. “Right”
and “wrong” are abstract terms, and have as
many variations as there are communities. If
public sanction cannot make “ wrong ” “ right,”
it cannot make “right” “wrong.” But it
does. For instance : It is not ethically
“ wrong ” for a man to have 300 wives and 900
concubines, or such a wise and good man as
Solomon wouldn’t have had them. But Aus-
tralian law says it is “ wrong ” for one man to
have more than one wife at a time, and—well,
it is “ wrong.” Similarly, if “ public sanction ”
declared that murder was “right ” it would be
“ right,” for all practical purposes. There can
be no hard-and-fast definition of “right”
any more than there can be ever any
answer to Pilate’s question—“ What is
Truth ? ” The fact is, as regards gam-
bling, that the modern pietistic mania of
anti-gambling is the chlorosis of civilised hypo-
crisy. Everybody gambles. “ Chance ”is the
most potent factor in every human destiny, in-
dividual or national. It is because man has no
control over, and no defence against, “Chance,”
that he is a natural gambler. The merchant
gambles daily ; he miscalls “ Chance ” fore-
sight. Where it isn’t “ Chance,” purely and
simply, it is “ inside information ” —the very
thing that the turf-gambler and the monte-
magsman punt on. Only, those gentlemen
honestly name it “swindling.” The clergy
gamble. They, too, are not content with
“ judicious investments ” in lands, stocks, &c.,
according to their earthly lights, but they do
the purse-trick most effectually with lottery-
tickets cashable in Heaven. All the poor
widows and distressed clergymen who confessed
themselves crushed in the last big boom, merely
lost on a gamble. “ Chance ” was unkind to
them; but they “ went for ” what they
“ thought.” No need to illustrate by means of
Stock Exchanges and insurance companies.
Those bodies, at all events, don’t drape them-
self with hypocrisy. And they are legal, and
therefore “ right ” —in the sense used in this
consideration. The law that seeks to stamp out
gambling must, first of all, abolish “Chance.”
And law, itself, is pretty nearly all “Chance.”
We are all bound to gamble according to the
“ Chances ” that offer. It is to be hoped that
Waddell will succeed in his Bill, and that the
chlorosis of hypocrisy may be cured after-
wards.
The Legal Trade-Union.
The Ekaminers in Law of Melb. University
lately refused a law-student, who had passed
his final examination, his pass certificate —the
possession of which was necessary to enable
him to apply to the Full Court to be admitted
to practise as a member of the Legal Trade
Union, giving as their reason for so doing that
he held a commission in the Defence Force,
thereby contravening the rules forbidding a
candidate for admission to the Union to engage
in any occupation but that of a lawyer’s clerk
whilst serving the three years’ article to as
solicitor which every embryo shark is required
to serve by said rules. The student appealed
to the Full Court, but while the point was
being discussed the Examiners met in the
Court library, drew up the required certificate,
delivered it to the student in court ere the ink
on it was dry, and so saved the point from
being decided. According to the opinion of
Attorney-General Isaacs, it is clear under the
Rules that during the period covered by his
articles a student is prohibited from engaging
in any occupation but that of clerk to the law-
yer to whom he is articled. As an articled clerk
who is paid a salary is the rarest of mortals,
this prohibition effectually keeps out of the
Union anyone who cannot afford to do nothing
for a living for three years. The nominal
reason for requiring service of articles is that
the student may be familiarised with the prac-
tical work of the Union, but this reason is
“ given away ” by the fact that even 10 or 20
years’ good service in an office does nothing
towards qualifying an ordinary clerk, who, if
he can find time to study after his day’s work
is done—the articled clerk does a good deal of
his studying in office hours—must still serve
his three years in articles even though during
the better part of the 10 or 20 years he has had
the control of matters much more important
than come the way of three-fourths of the
Union in a lifetime. The real reason of the
requirement of articles is, of course, to confine
the membership of the Union to its present
members, their and their relations’ sons and the
sons of influential clients; and, to keep these
latter from being too eager to rush a good thing,
a premium is charged which, even in these
cut - throat times, in some offices runs as
high as £5OO. Again, a person desirous
of entering the profession is required to
pass an examination in Latin, History, &c.,
before he can enter into articles —for, so the
legal ring alleges, no person can understand the
law unless he has passed such examination.
Admitting the truth of this allegation, it is not
necessary that such examination should be com-
pulsory, as the student who had not passed it
would be unable to pass in law'. The fact is,
that the only subject in which a law-student
should be compelled to pass is law. Articles
should be abolished ; they are out of place in a
democratic country, creating as they do two
classes of clerks the young-gentleman-in-
articles and the common prospectless attorney’s
clerk. The United States and Maoriland get
on very well without articles, and any one who
has been sharked in those progressive countries
knows that their sharks are quite as competent
to shark as any other sharks.
♦ ''
Through. Chinese Spectacles.
Translation of remarks in a recent issue of the
Kwong Yick Wah Bo (Chinese paper pub-
lished at Sydney) re the anti-Chinese agitation
at Darlington and Redfern, N.S. W. :
Some low-class Europeans, who have not been very well
educated in the practice of hiding their feelings, are try-
ing to stop other Europeans from trading withjour country-
men in some of the outside places near Sydney. We know
that this agitation only comes from the ignorant, and that
the better classes of Europeans will not hold with it
because they have learned, as the Chinese have also
learned, that competition in business is like two nations
at war. In war if one country has the best generals and
the best ships and the best trained soldiers, and it succeeds
in overcoming, the country that is defeated does not cry
out to all the peoples of the earth that it was unfairly
defeated because the conquerors were the best prepared
for the war. The defeated country goes to work hard
without sparing pains to find the causes of its want of
success, and so often learns by its previous defeats to
remedy its defects, so that many days after it can succeed
by equalling or excelling its adversary. If these Europeans
cry out against Chinese competition it is a sign that they
fear it, and it is pitiable to hear strong men weeping with
fear. Let them rather recognise that it is by excellence
of management, by industry, by the habit of daily accu-
mulation taught us by our parents that the Chinese
succeed in business in foreign lands, when they have the
disadvantages of unjust laws and prejudiced lower orders
to contend with. Let them so recognise these things,
and when their brains have got them let them copy the
Chinese and they will be able to get some competency.
It is a saying with us that when a pig shrieks he
knows he is in Hanger, and that when a merchant talks
about his business troubles to strangers it is good to stop
his credit. Everything gets on through competition.
Even the Labor-members who are helping this agitation,
and are, of course, intelligent men themselves, though
those who hearken to them are not—are in the very act of
stultifying themselves competing for the votes of the
ignorant. These members live by politics, and they get
their living by the votes of the ignorant, and the man
who pretends he can do the most impossibilities gets the
most votes, and the man who will not promise to
get the moon down for the ignorant class of Europeans
cannot hope to get to be a member by their votes. So
that the inflaming of the prejudices of the ignorant is a
kind of competition, and a kind of competition that those
who are readers of Kwong Yick Wah Bo would not use.
We would compete with the Europeans, and try to show
them that we would exceed them in justice. If Chinese
here gamble for a few pennies it is thought very bad, and
shows such a wicked example as makes everybody shiver.
And then the members of Parliament and the police and
the magistrates go to the races and gamble for hundreds
of pounds, and no one shivers at all—except the Kwong
Yick Wah 80, which remembers what was said of Kung-
Fu-TZE-that he avoided a hypocrite as he avoided a par-
ricide. But we do not stop the Europeans in China from
betting on races at Shanghai. This shows that the
Chinese are not hypocrites and that they love justice.
Concerning Some Policemen.
Dear Bulletin, —One of the first things to
excite a snort from the Anglomaniac new-chum
in this city is the policeman. He appears so
absurdly thin-skinned and deficient in honest
self-esteem. A larrikin utters an inane ex-
pression of contempt for the man in blue as he
struts along his beat, and the official, instead of
walking on, with calm, stony countenance,
turns upon the larrikin and probably ends an
angry discussion by arresting the fellow for
insulting behaviour. Unnecessary interference
with “ drunks ” is a special line of Melbourne
police conduct, which, to British new-chums,
fresh from-a country where “drunks” are
never molested, save in disorderly cases, seems
contemptible. One naturally thinks it is a
pity that guardians of the peace don’t find
work more important. Their desire to assert
themselves in small matters is unmanly, like
their dread of ridicule. Only a few years ago
it was the police custom here to convey charges,
male and female, to the lock-up in a cab, a cus-
tom founded on constabulary notions of dignity.
“ Bobbie” was afraid of getting cliafFfrom the
small boys if he walked his prisoner to the police-
station. It wasn’t the feelings of the arrested
party that he studied, but his own feelings.
This by way of introduction to a story which
may be left to speak for itself. Last week a
“captain” and a “ private ” in the Salvation
Harmy were charged at Footscray (Melb.)
Police Court with using insulting words. They
had been engaged in working up an “open-air
service ” (Footscray is a dull place where such
Harmy business doesn’t interfere with traffic)
when a constable ordered them to move on.
Ere moving on as desired the noisy evangelists
“ remarked that the police were of no use ex-
cept to ‘ run-in ’ inoffensive people. They did
nothing to interfere with Sunday-trading at
hotels owned by magistrates.” On the strength
of which petulant but very truthful remarks
the constable summoned the two “soldiers.”
He felt wounded in his honor. As master of
the situation he could very well have afforded
to disperse the meeting and let the “insulting
words ” go for what they were worth. He pre-
ferred to bring the offenders before the Court.
They were fined 10s. and costs apiece, in default
48 hours’ imprisonment, and in the name of the
Lord they went to gaol.— Melbournian.
The Libel Law.
In a recent English case a person was libelled
in similar fashion by each of several news-
papers, all of which obtained the matter
complained of from a common Press Agency.
Plaintiff, on bringing his action, joined all the
papers as defendants. The jury found for
£lOOO damages, which they apportioned
amongst the various journals. Which pro-
cedure affords a fine example of common-sense
applied to law of libel. In N.S. Wales, which,
in all matters of legal reform, is generally about
a quarter of a century behind England, such a
course would be impossible. Here, each news-
paper would have been dragged separately
before a jury, and cast in damages varying
from £5OO to £lOOO, and the fortunate plaintiff
would have been made independent for life.
All newspapers deriving their information from
a common source run the risk of printing
something libellous —for the purpose of the
argument it matters nothing whether the libel
be a gross one or not —and if by accident they
be caught napping, they lay themselves open
to actions for damages. The libelled one may
be a man of straw ; but each paper must sub-
mit to be separately blackmailed. After plaintiff
has brought a dozen or forty-nine libel-actions
and obtained thumping damages in each, the
defendant in the thirteenth or fiftieth cannot
hope to escape adding his quota to the plain-
tiff’s banking-account, by showing that the
alleged injury to his (the plaintiff’s) character
has been amply salved by the proceeds of 12 or
45 previous verdicts. Even though the jury
did take that into consideration, each paper
would still have been put to the expense of a
separate defence. There is no excuse for such
a state of affairs. In the event of identical or
similar libels against the same person appear-
ing in a number of newspapers, common jus-
tice demands that the law should compel him
to consolidate his actions against the journals,
or, in default of his so doing, should provide
that judgment against one should be a bar to
all other actions arising out of the same subject
matter. This would not be unfair to a plaintiff,
for the jury could assess the damages in a lump
sum, stipulating what portion each paper should
pay. The speculative lawyer, who wants
“something on account” before issuing a writ
against a newspaper, would find a law of this
character little to his taste; his satellite, the
impecunious barrister, who looks to “ the other
side ” for payment of his fees, would find it
still less so ; and both would probably consider
the country was going to the devil; otherwise,
however, this alteration in legal procedure
would be an unmixed blessing.
Another Soudan Picnic.
New South Wales military authorities are
metaphorically about to twine a garland round
the horns of the Soudan goat. Another
gorgeous picnic is being incubated, and there is
the usual appeal to the miserable taxpayer to
pay for the beer and sandwiches. As it was
only the other day that there was a most suc-
cessful military “ demonstration ” up the
country, with champagne-corks popping
in all directions, and a big bill there-
for to be footed by the Treasury, despite
the most solemn protestations that the uni-
formed beneficiaries would pay up the deficit,
it is not surprising that Premier Reid rather
hangs back. He is only asked for £lsoo—a
mere trifle of £l5O0 —but as a gentleman in
scarlet-and-swaggah the other day remarked :
“ We only want the detn’d—haw—Gov’ment
to back our bill—and we’ll—haw —take care the
bill is all right. Once they go in with us they
cawn’t draw back —don’t you know !—and our
troubles about the £1500.” The thing proposed
is to send 32 fine-looking military people and
their horses to a British tournament next year
—to strut in Queen Vic.’s 60-years-reign
pageant, permit the British populace to gape
at their exhibition of “ colonial loyalty,”
and have “ a heluva good time, bai jove !
in society ” —more or less at the expense
of the beforementioned miserable taxpayer.
Why he should stump up doesn’t appear.
He won’t get any of the prize-money, or
the wine, or the ladies’ favors, or the big
cigars, or the glorious crimson nights. There
are frequent military tournaments in India,
but the regimental authorities never dream of
asking for a Govt, subsidy. If they did they
would be laughed at. The honor of victory—
and the profit—are quite enough for them ; and
if this Australian expedition has luck it may
easily clear expenses, since the prizes for which
it competes run into thousands of pounds. But
Australia and India are different.. Here is the
eternal home and happy hunting-ground of the
sponger on State revenues. Just a little
“ influence ” judiciously applied to the right
man at the right moment; and you can bleed
the Treasury till further orders. The beautiful
military authorities know this right well ; but
Premier Reid seems the wrong kind of peanut.
So the bait is hung out that the picnic will give
a splendid stimulus to the Australian horse-
trade—which is cunning. With the swagger
picnic aspect carefully put out of sight, and the
“business and commercial” idea prominently
put forward, surely the tax-paying schnapper
will grab this little squid !
“ President Faure, in proposing the toast of the Im-
perial visitor, said that on his arrival in France he would
feel that the heart of France beat in the capital. The
Czar, in responding to the toast, said that he fully recip-
rocated the warm sentiments felt for Russia by a friendly
nation. The Czar and President Faure then clinked their
glasses together, and the band played “ The Marseillaise.
Victoria’s talking Chief Justice, in a lecture
to Brunswick branch of the A.N.A., on what
he called “Safe (i.e., Tory) Politics,” illus-
trated the baneful effect to the State of the re-
publican form of government by pointing out
that, while the Chinese empire had existed
through tens of centuries to the present day,
the Greek, Roman and Venetian republics
had endured but for a comparatively brief
period. This dreadful inaccuracy and this
lamentable tendency to talk through his
hat seems to explain why Mr. Madden’s
judgments are reversed so often. China
certainly has endured for thousands of
years, for it was too big to be taken up with a
shovel and a barrow and carried away, but its
empire hasn’t lasted anything like that time.
China has been a succession of empires, as one
conqueror after another mopped up the great,
weak, squashy state which never had enough
vitality to be really alive, but there is no cer-
tain evidence that any one of them lasted
longer than the great republic of Venice.
And the Venetian republic is more alive
to-day, seeing that it has become part
of a semi-republican monarchy, than China
which is bossed by a foreign emperor. And
China is an exception, anyhow. The average
monarchy lives probably a century or two or
three; the empires of Alexander, the two
Napoleons, Charlemagne, Iturbide of
Mexico, Dessalines of Hayti, the Latin king-
doms of Constantinople and Jerusalem, the king-
dom of Joseph of Spain (which endured about
12 months), and many others could be picked out
to make an apparent average of about 20 years.
Anyhow, Venice hung out for 12 centuries, and
Switzerland has been a tolerably healthy re-
public for about 600 years, so it seems that
even the prospect of being ultimately disap-
proved of by Chief Justice Madden didn’t blight
them altogether. And who wouldn’t rather be
a dead Switzer or a defunct Venetian than a
live Chinaman ?
4.
That little incidental scandal re the trial of the
City of Melbourne Bankers arose out of a bold
attempt to charge it, in a hazy sort of way,
against the Crown prosecution. The facts ot
the case are clear enough. When the jury was
being empanelled the person “ challenging” on
behalf of the defendants offered no objection to
a juryman who happened to be the father of a
youth employed in the office of Loader, jun.
Loader, jun., was in court at the time, repre-
senting the legal firm engaged for the defence
of Loader, sen., yet it did not occur to him to
suggest that this particular juryman (after-
wards elected foreman) might possibly be sus-
pected of a bias towards the Loader side. The
relationship of the foreman to young Loader’s
clerk leaked out almost immediately, but the
Crown Prosecutor reasonably assumed that the
son’s little billet would not influence the father’s
verdict. Therefore, all the counsel concerned
in the case lay low and said nothing until the
Age published an exaggerated statement of the
“scandal.” Then Purves, Q.C., arose on be-
half of the defence and railed at the newspaper-
par. as being an inspired attempt to injure
the cause of the unfortunate gentlemen on
trial, whereas it was merely a “ giving
away ” of a fact. Purves, Q.C., having
raised a dust, the Crown-Prosecutor felt called
upon to address Judge Holroyd, who adjourned
the Court in order to consult with his brother
Judges. The Judges in conclave came to the
conclusion the Crown-Prosecutor had arrived
at days before — viz., that the juryman’s son
made no probable difference to the course
of justice, and the trial went on again as usual,
after Purves had apologised for insinuating
that the Age paragraph was maliciously in-
spired. For any “scandal” connected with
the jury foreman the defence is solely respon-
sible. In the first place, the challenger acting
for Loader, jun., was not instructed to object
to the father of Loader, jun.’s clerk, and in
the next place, when the identity of the parent
aforesaid became known to all the defending
lawyers and counsel, they were content to hug
in silence the remote possibility of an unfair
advantage. When the silence was publicly
broken, their leading man rushed in to impute
improper motives to the other side, without
showing an atom of excuse for his manoeuvre.
The Westralian aborigines have had better luck
thus far than their black brothers in other
parts. About £20,000 stands to their credit at
present, and this sum is sure to increase by
leaps and bounds as the years go by, provided
the law of the matter stays where it is. It
appears that when six years ago the draft con-
stitution bill was sent to England the authori-
ties there inserted a clause in favor of the
aborigines. Under this clause the natives are
secured 1 per cent, of the gross revenue of the
The leading French Republican
He entertained the Czar,
As though that lamentable man
Were "Freedom’s brightest star ;
He squeezed the Russian despot’s hand,
He slavered him with praise,
And then a patriotic band
Performed the “Marseillaise.”
Say, what do revolutions mean,
And why—we want to know—■
Did France invent the guillotine
If this be comme il faut ?
God ! Did no ghosts leap from the land,
Grim ghosts of gory days,
To mock the royal-banquet band
Which played the “ Marseillaise ” !


Hot Days
are not half so tiring in
Callaghan Boots.
They are a perfect boon
For weary feet.
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-street, Sydney.
Make
Non?e
Attractive.
The Mellow Tones of a good PIANO or ORGAN
will refresh and rest the Parents, amuse the child-
ren, and keep them at home. Do you want one y
You say “ Yes, but can’t afford it.” Send us your
name, and, perhaps, we can show you how you
can afford it. And a good one, too. We have
exactly the one which will best suit you.
Our Catalogue of Banjos, Violins, and other
small Instruments, showing Reduced Prices, will
be sent on request.
W- H- PALING- & 00., Limited,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY ;
And at NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE.
Perjurer-poisoner Dean’s Privy Council
appeal is progressing. As Dean’s funds were
exhausted, the appeal was made in forma pauj irt*.
The Council has agreed to dispense with the usual
official fees, and as barrister Colonna Close is per-
sonally providing the London attorney’s fees,
the convict’s appeal will be heard, after all.
A ludicrous sight is the jury sitting in Ihe
City of Melb. bank-cases. One of the members
turned up on the first day with a huge packet of
chewing-gum wherewith to while away the dreary
hours of figures and balance-sheets, and so struck
were his colleagues with the idea that most of
them have become slaves to the gum habit, and
their jaws now.munch in unison throughout coun-
sels’ addresses, witnesses’ evidence, and Judge’s
directions. The habit has even spread to the
solicitors’ table, and now and again the court
itself is seen casting furtive ;lances of obvious
envy towards the chewers of the seductive confec-
tion. Will the Coming Australian chew gum ?
After the Ball
drops, jj the gun fires
\ ;■=
i *
C-V>
X
SB
nrn 111 i|i if o »i«m i7?7
m?
'IM
cry
fl
v v
Old Dominion
Cigarettes,
They soothe the brain.
province from year to year. Six years ago this
was a small sum, and was not worth fighting
about, so that the Bill duly became law. But
it quickly mounted from ,£4OOO to id 1.000,
and last year to .£IB,OOO, and in a short
time all the available darkies should be able
to run a carriage and pair. A couple of years
ago the Forrest party endeavored to repeal
the obnoxious cl ause, and passed a measure to
that effect, but Britain declined to assent. And
so the rolling stone of increasing revenue tallies
wealth for the lucky myall, or it would do so
if he got the wealth, instead of it being put to
his credit somewhere where he never sees it or
hears about it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ An American Citizen.”
Criterion. “ a Pair of Spectacles.”
" orAl< “For England.”
Tivoli. Rickards’ Variety Co.
Her Majesty’s “Foiled.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “A Milk White Flag.”
~' OTAI ' “Tommy Atkins.”
L^ XA ™ RA “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
In point of interest and value, “A Gilded
Fool,’ at Sydney Lyceum, comes about midway
between “ Ihe Nominee ” and “In Mizzoura. ” It
is a good way in front of the first, and a good way
behind the second. Intrinsically, the play is poor
enough ; almost all its effect comes, or does not
come, in the acting. It cries for mercy where a
play of Pinero’s merely asks for justice. All the
more to the credit of Nat Goodwin and his com-
pany that it is made fairly plausible and suffi-
ciently interesting.
* * * *
. The “Gilded Fool’’ is a young American
in love with the daughter of a banker whose part-
ner has brought him to the verge of ruin by reck-
less speculation. The Pool is rich, and the
partner, representing the firm as solvent, per-
suades. him to throw in his wealth to
its aid and become a co - partner. The
banker, however, refuses to accept the sacri-
uce; the firm fails, and is resuscitated by
the Gilded Fool, who is naturally rewarded
with the daughter; while the wicked partner is
shipped off to England to answer for previous
misdeeds. Nat Goodwin, as the Gilded Fool, is
half the play and a little bit over. He deftly
exaggerates the author’s comedy and subtly tones
down the author’s exaggerated tragedv. In a
word, he acts with brains. Most actors' act with
a good memory, or a good voice, or a fine stage
presence : they take what the author gives them,
and render it for the public as capably as they
can, or as they can’t. But Goodwin, like every
decent actor with all but half-a-dozen authors,
brings to the partnership far more than the play-
writer. He transfigures the drama, invents effects,
creates situations, intensifies what is weak, softens
crudities, and turns ranting puppets into flesh and
blood. To see what an actor can do with a head
is to nourish perennial regret that most actors
have none.
* * * *
In the first act the play is a little too
tedious, or the theatre is rather too warm, but the
effect is bad. When ruin hovers round the banker
the interest gets tenser, and it would be strong if
Clarence Handyside, the traditional heavy father,
would be a little less stereotyped and a little more
natural. Even Goodwin, by-the-way, fails to rise
to the height of one of his spasmodic serious moods.
You feel that there is thunder in the air and
declamation in prospect, and then —swish !—on
turns the limelight, the stage is- full of red fire,
and Goodwin declaims to slow music as per
formula. Why won’t the stage be natural ? The
red light and the music are highly unnatural:
nobody in real life ever uses them, or wants them ;
and the amount of their un-natufe is-precisely the
amount by which the actor’s result—his impression
on his audience—is spoiled.
** t * *
Frazer Coulter does the erring partner
vigorously and dramatically : a shade less unction
might be desirable, but his stilts are dwarfs to
Handyside’s. Arthur Hoops, as a minor lover,
leaves a good impression ; and the ladies are
moderately effective, Miss Browning being per-
haps a trifle more convincing than the rest. There
is, indeed, no very deep hole anywhere in the act-
ing, and the play is presented for all it is worth.
Next Saturday sees the first performance of “ An
American Citizen,” to be produced “for the first
time on any stage.”
** * *
“ Foiled,” at Sydney Majesty’s, is a drama
of a circular-saw, which is supposed to more or
less devour the hero at the instigation of the
villain, and the audience heaves and breathes
throughout the evening in anticipation of seeing
the awful teeth br-r-ring through the buttons.
The saw is artfully put as the very last item on
the programme of sensations, and it is unsatisfac-
tory to find that it does not devour, and does not
br-r-r, and does not even revolve. Moreover, it is
a very small saw, and its teeth are obviously tin,
and the audience has breathed itself into expecta-
tion of a gigantic implement as large as a small
moon, whizzing round with frightful rapidity, and
filling the stage with whirlwinds and roar.
* * * *
With the exception of the saw, “ Foiled ”
is a more or less satisfactory performance of the
usual melodramatic stamp.' It includes a rather
sticky villain, who is “recognised” in the
first and second acts for fun, and in the
third for keeps. There is also Wilfred Shine,
who makes love to his brother’s girl in the
drawing-room of a villa near Maitland and
a brown suit and gaiters ; and tracks the
villain to his lair (in a brown suit and
gaiters) ; and engages in a phenomenal rescue
wife, who has been thrown
oyer a chff (in a brown suit and gaiters); and
is finally tied on to the saw-bench by the villain,
and informed that he is about to meet his Maker
(m a brown suit and gaiters). Thanks to the in-
of Edward Fanning, who is a dumb
aboriginal in a torn shirt (to show there is no decep-
tion and he is really aboriginal all over), this un-
pleasantness is averted. The comic man, in the
name of John Forde, is by no means as sad as the
usual comic man ; and Miss Lita and Miss Wise-
man supply the most capable acting that the
conglomeration admits of.
** * *
At the Criterion the Brough Co. is making
merry over the last nights of “ Mrs. Ponderbury’s
Past, ’ with “ A Pair of Spectacles ” (preceded by
Gentle Gertrude, a musical melodrama ”) in
Saturday s prospect. The Tivoli announces the
departure of the Cinematographe, and the reap-
pearance for a few nights of the great Tennyson
and the equally great O’Gorman. The Lumiere
Cinematographe continues to boom marvellously
as it deserves in Pitt-st.; and Bland Holt’s
For England,” at the Theatre Royal, still waves
a furious flag and defies a frightened universe to
come on.
** * *
Mdle. Trebelli returns to Sydney next
week after a successful provincial tour; and an-
nounces two final concerts before she leaves for
America in the Mariposa. Bathurst, Orange, and
Maoriland are also to be favored with visits.
* * US- *
“A Milk White Flag,” (like “A Trip to
Chinatown,” a musical comedy by Hon. Charles
Hoyt), was performed last Saturday night at
Melb. Princess’ to a crowded audience by the same
American artists as before, with the assistance of
another ’Murkan comedian and our old friend
Howard Vernon. The audience on Saturday felt
grateful for friend Vernon as long as he was get-
ting occasional chances to shine by comparison,
but after a while he took a back seat and faded
from view. A good many people concerned in
1 A Milk White Flag ” have to sit back and be
forgotten most of the time, whereas those who
seldom disappear for long are the very ones who
really ought to vanish altogether. Hence the per-
formance is probably open to improvement.
* * * •
“A Milk White Flag” has spots of
humorous business, and many humorous sugges-
tions crudely carried out. It takes as a subject
for satire the. amateur playing-at-soldiers of the
modern American militia, but satire in this case
seldom rises above the level of “ chaff’’—horse-
chaff. An idea that might have been effectively
treated by Gilbert and Sullivan is not made too
much of by Hon. Ployt. Hoyt’s capacity for writing
a libretto and stuffing it with unoriginal music is
not superior to that of Rice, the “ Evangeline ”
man, who never called himself honorable in the
bill of fare. Hoyt, all the same, is a more pun-
gent joker than his awful prototype. The leading
item in “A Milk White Flag” is a cadaverous
husband guilty of fraudulent designs on a life-
assurance society, and when he conspires with an
undertaker to feign disease his wife, or the pro-
fessional corpse-tenders, put his live body on ice
to keep him fresh. This is wholesome fun, although
it smacks of the charnel-house, seeing that the local
Ransome Guards take the opportunity to enroll
the alleged stiff ’un as a brother officer, and
arrange to bury him with full military honors.
The corpse on ice catches cold, and gets out of his
coffin to sneeze, consequently the funeral is in-
definitely postponed. A harmless old general, a
relic of the real American Army, who has been
doing nothing in particular all the evening, sud-
denly offers a milk-white flag to the Ransome
Guards, and the unfurling of the banner is a signal
for the audience to disperse.
-** * *
George A. Beane, as the corpse-on-ice, is a
fair success ; also, stage-manager Mitchell, cast
for the part of the undertaker. The fetching
Miss Sadie M‘Donald, in a short frock, would be
more generally acceptable if she could sing, and the
only two performers who were backed heavily on
their individual merits were Miss Bessie Clayton
and the whistler, once again. Miss Clayton’s new
dance is perhaps not quite as popular as her other
dances, but Alf. Lawton fools cleverly in addition
to whistling. Harry Conor’s vaunted travesty of
Buonaparte proves to be rather a disappointment,
for better comedians have produced much more
striking imitations of the Napoleonic pictures.
Miss M‘Caim plays an abbreviated second edition
other “Chinatown” widow married, to the ice-
bound-remains. As regards the plump tenor and
bulky baritone, The Bulletin will forbear from
saying much. The tenor is disguised in whiskers,
otherwise they present the same twin appearance as
before in tight-fitting uniforms. The baritone
gentleman opens his mouth freely to sing ballads
as before, at which times death, on ice, has no
terrors for the present dejected scribe. Two
pretty scenes by George Gordon grace this musical
comedy, and the management has supplied an ex-
cellently-dressed chorus. The chorus comes on
occasionally and retires as soon as possible to the
invariable regret of everybody in front. If there
were a lot more chorus, a little new music, and no
solo singing in the show ; also, if the corpse were
iced in public instead of being refrigerated off the
stage, “ The Milk White Flag ” might even repeat
the furious “Chinatown” hoom. It will, of
course, improve much on its first night attempt.
* #. * *
“Robbery Under Arms” is for various
reasons raging furiously at Melbourne Alexandra.
The principal reason is Dampier. An Alexandra
audience can always get persuaded by the easy
heroism of that veteran actor under any circum-
stances, and the combination of Dampier with
Australian bush is irresistible. Troopers Maginnis
and O’Hara come next in favor, on account of
their shocking discredit to the force, whilst even
the head policeman is considered to fill a long felt
want when Captain Starlight lodges a bullet in
his arm. For the rest, jthey are mostly Australian
natives revelling in localcolor and colonial oaths,
and, at the present rate of treasury returns, Ben,
Dick, and Jim may be expected to steal the fatted
calf until further notice.
** * *
“ Tommy Atkins,” in its last days at the
Royal, has taken on a new leading man. Plimmer
was originally the curate, who crumples liis white
choker in the dust and goes fighting for the
Queen, and the general effect of that slim young
man was highly satisfactory. Last week, George
Rignold engaged himself, at a vast expense, to
take Plimmer’s place, a change which made no
real difference to the show. Rignold is distinctly
too large for a pale-faced curate, but, on the other
hand, he has a fine assortment of stage tricks in
stock and an immense fund of British valor to fall
back upon at supreme moments. “Tommy
Atkins ” will retire on Friday, or thereabouts, and
rumors of “ Henry the Fifth ” are in the air. Mel-
bourne could do with some Henry Yee after all
these years.
** # *
The Frantz Family, in addition to the two
sisters on the electric-trapeze, a cinematograph,
and many other matters, are crowding the Opera
House every night. Crackles takes a benefit on
Friday (16), perhaps by way of varying the
monotony of the benefit to Harry Rickards, which
has been going on for several weeks and is likely
to endure for ever.
** * m
A benefit concert to George Howard at
Prahran (Melb.) Town Hall last Friday testified
that Melb. Amateur Orchestral Society is some-
thing more than a matter of sounding brass and
tinkling cymbals. Among 45 performers who
follow the tactful Howard’s lead and get no indi-
vidual glory for their pains are only half-a-dozen
professionals, whilst the balance of amateurs in-
cludes 16 girls. These are said to be enthusiastic
young things with a fine capacity for discipline,
and their general appearance, as they sit to the
fore of the platform, is beautifully businesslike.
The two principal violins are Miss Florence Lewis
and little Miss May Nash ; nine other damsels
play first or second fiddles ; and four devote them-
selves to the ’cello or the viola.
At Poverty Point.
Old Georsre Coppin was made much of during his recent
visit to Adelaide, where, 50 years ago, he gained and
lost a fortune, afterwards paying all his debts out of a
second fortune accumulated elsewhere.
Since the Chinatown irruption, Melh. johnnies all go to
a “ drug-store ” to buy “ per-fume,” and call on the “ bar-
tender down to the hbtel ’ to “ hurry up with that there
carktail, or, b’gahsh, I’ll hev t’go up town to the dee-pot
without a goldarned moistener, ’tall! ”
From the manner in which the Argus notices of the
Vaidis Sisters, now “trapezing” at Melb. Opera House,
are bespangled with superlatives, it is evident that these
clever little ladies have knocked that great daily’* young
man off his perch.
The Firm’s “ Princess ” panto, will be compounded of
Swift’s “ Gulliver’s Travels’’and Edwin Arnold’s “ Light
of Asia,” with odd suggestions of Kipling. Bert Royle
and J. C. Williamson are joint authors.
The just-returned tenor, Weir, says that the perform-
ances of the French baritone Delmas, whom he heard
lately in Paris, are the finest he has witnessed anywhere.
Weir visited Shakespeare, the well-known London teacher,
and was initiated into the most improved style of breath-
ing, which has superseded the abdominal method.
It is not generally known that the late Mrs. Carl Fischer
the well-known Sydney musical critic (of whom a portrait
is printed elsewhere in this issue), was a pet pupil of
Hullah, who taught her his song, “TheThreeFishers.” Mrs.
lischer, who was a great admirer of Vanderveer Green’s
singing, was, however, never satisfied with the latter’s in-
terpretation of this item, .and studiously refrained from
offering any journalistic criticism thereon.
Orlando Harley, the enchanting tenor who was here
with Foley, has tired of managing an American factory
with his brothers. He has decided to take to the concert-
platform again, and already engagements are pouring in.
He intends to visit Germany, and later on the London
boards will be his destination.
Miss Regina “Ben Bolt” Nagel has given up the idea
of musical education in Europe for the present, and gone
to the Gilded West on a lucrative concert engagement.
May Pollard has been engaged to instruct a juvenile
opera co. upon a tour through India. A Mrs. Chester
wife of an Indian official, “backs” the concern. The co
left by the Argus last week.
da y a lady called to see George Rignold at
Melb. Royal, and, upon representing that she “ held ” some
ot the great man’s property, was granted audience. With
much care the visitor took from her purse one of Rm-
nold s advertising-fake cheques, and intimated that she
aid not object to be rewarded for her honesty. When the
expectant female learned the nature of her prize she
waxed wroth, remarking that she had kept it for some
days and had nearly tried to cash it at a bank, before her
conscience moved her to take the righteous course.
d- l’ a . rne ®’ / 11 ( e much-paragraphed designer of the
“ 6 Thp vfwk-t D ii’ n ‘ J, ;i ln ’’dresses, has done likewise for
The Milk White Flag.” Also, Barnes has been specially
engaged to “create ” the robes for the Firm’s Melbourne
panto. Likewise manager Mitchell, of the “ Chinatown ”
co., has threatened Barnes with an American engagement,
received exC,tln = news about Barnes will be thankfully
Miss Edith O. King, of Sydney, is now being looked
upon as a leading, if not the leading, soprano. The
other week Brisbane Liedertafel secured her services ;
Melb. Liedertafel has now followed suit. Sidney Phil-
harmonic has again and again offered her engagements
That conservative Melbourne should have engaged Miss
u a m er fo ™ dermen t Sydney always used to
import Melb. artistes on special occasions ; but now it
seems that the tables are turning. Miss King is about the
N.SAV• to enter Vic. territory as a soprano
soloist. Miss King will sing at Melb. Liedertafel’s concert
during race-week, when that society will perform Ilof-
Som> n ” S S ° ng ° f the Norns ” ail<l Jensen’s “Bridal
An aesthetic vision in the Melb. Amateur Orchestra
Thfllh O 3 ’,’ daughter of the Vic. Surveyor-General,
ihe dainty Galatea plays a violin, and, at the Prahran
concert the other night, she broke a string. One or more
grhlf 6 StnngS t 0 a pretty S-iri’s bow is bound to come to
Ed. Bulletin, In re your paragraph that “ the pub.-
keepers near by Melb. Alexandra are said to contribute
towards the weekly rent and gas-bill of the theatre.”
I lease let me say that I am the responsible lessee and pay
the rent and other expenses without any outside asMsfr
ance.—Yours truly, Katherine Alice Dampier.
A street-showing sword-swallower appears in Melb.
The army of paragraphists has discovered, to its great
amazement, seemingly, that the Vaidis sisters are not
ver .Y youthful in years. A woman on a trapeze is lust
as young as she acts.
George Coppin, when the busted boom left him practi-
™ly stranded, remarked : “A hard end to an eventful
life. Now, however, lie is very all-right again, thanks to
a couple of good pantomimes, the Trilby burlesque, and a
few other happy specs.
Re theatre accidents. Clement Scott remembers
Richard 111. striking Richmond’s sword into the Drury
Lane stalls. King Dick had to await his quietus till the
sword was politely handed up. In Henry IV., at Melb.
Royal, the Prince of Wales thus struck Hotspur’s sword
into the stalls, but Hotspur, of course, died immediately.
Why doesn’t Brough stage Wyndham’s beautiful play of
Rosemary ?
The company at the Novelty Theatre (Lond.), where the
poor stage hero was accidentally killed by his friend the
villain, wanted a change of piece on the night following
the catastrophe. This was impossible under the circum-
stances, but the management omitted the stabbing busi-
ness, to the intense, yet silent, regret of a large audience
that came prepared to shudder at the possibility of
another fatal mistake.
Frank Bateman, now touring profitably with his “ Har-
bor Lights ” co. through the English provinces, was
formerly a Melb. stonemason. He abandoned his chisel
and mallet to join Dampier’s co., at the Alexandra, after
which he opened a pub. in Westralia, and, having made
money, went ’Ome and blossomed into theatrical manage-
ment.
The Musical Courier wants to know why stars like
Melba and the De Reszke brothers can extract two ot
three times as much money for singing in America as they
are willing to accept in London, where they get consider-
ably higher fees than in Paris or St. Petersburg? Manager
Maurice Grau says it is because “ a ring, a combination, a
trust has been organised to keep prices on a fictitious
basis ” in America, and the Courier asks “ Why ? ” again.
The answer to which is simply that the singers, being able
to do it, make the most of their opportunity. In the first
place, fashionable, wealthy artists can’t be' tempted from
Europe to America except by the charm of exceptionally
fat fees, so their combination is a matter of mutual taste
as well as business. If a sliding-scale of charges were a
doubtful policy they might not adopt it, but experience
proves that theatrical “ stars,” unlike painters or shop-
keepers, can safely vary their prices for the same value
of goods, even in the same market. London music-hall
performers have for years been doing exactly the same
“turns” at various halls on a sliding scale. The ’alls
that take most money at the doors and refreshment-bars
are compelled to offer the biggest terms to the boss
“talent” of the moment. Managers grumble in vain.
Theoretically, Brown is not compelled to give £5O for the
particular services which Jones obtains for half the money,
or less. Practically, he is.
A proposal to erect a statue of the late Sirgustus Harris
fell very flat, but he is to have a small and useful memo-
rial of some kind or other.
Re Vaidis. Men gymnasts, ii la Zoyara, can no longer
be played off as women with the improved physical know-
ledge of the masses.
Lohr has been doing great business around Maoriland
with the Godfrey Vaudeville Co. Godfrey comes as a
revelation in serio-comic descriptive singing', and the co.
supplies a neat little assortment of “ turns.” On the last
night of the Dunedin season the police stepped in to stop
the sale of tickets. By the time the show got to Christ-
church even the local aristocracy, which had been wont to
snort at variety performances, passed a social resolution
to the effect that it could patronise Godfrey without
sinking in its self-esteem.
Mdlle. Trebelli only drew .£l6 at Petersburg (S.A.)—her
lowest house on record. The fair singer has sworn never
to again visit the town, under any circumstances.
The Permans have been engaged for next pantomime at
the Prince’s Theatre, Manchester, where Courtneidge
manages.
“It is hopeless to try and attract people to a theatre
unless you can make them believe there is no chance of
getting in.”— Dickens.
A new play, “The List of his Race,” has been written
to the order of Mrs. Walter Bentley, who seems to get
along- comfortably “ on her own ” in England.
“Rice’s “ Evangeline,” which was a “frost” in Australia
many years after its first production in America, is still
wobbling along through the land of its birth.
The leader of tne orchestra was giving out the music to
his instrumentalists, at an up-to-date concert, when a lino-
type outcast in the gallery yelled, “Copy, gents ! ”
“ Promenade ” Concerts at Melb. Exhibition Building
are so termed because the audience remains carefully
seated all the time. The noise of many promenading feet
on the bare boards would drown the concert. Besides, all
the space within reasonable distance of the platform is
taken up by chairs.
Phil. Langdale, the bassoonist, has got a billet in
Riviere’s Orchestra, lately performing around England
and Wales.
Haresfoot : “ Henry Irving has oeen absolutely mean in
his support of contemporary dramatists, never having
brought out a play by Pinero (save a paltry £5O farce),
Jones, Grundy, Gilbert—in fact, nothing original in the
first line, and expensive. Yet he came to the front in new
plays—Albery’s “Two Roses,” Lewis' “Bells.” He has
done all he could to kick away the ladder, vamp up
Shakespeare, and other cheap authors ”


IS MONEY!
“YOST ”
“DENSMORE”
“CALIGRAPH”
BOSS
MACHINES OF THEIR
CLASS.
! 1 v
.'A\V. CsVv*.*
United Typewriter Si Supplies Co. of London
and New York,
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE;
Barrack-st., PERTH ; Sub-agencies—Adelaide & Brisbane.
FREE TRIAL. FREE TUITION.
Write for Catalogues and particulars.
Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98/100 %, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
Best possible prices, far cheaper than Drug
Houses.
Ny.Markwald,
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
178 W illiam-st., Melbourne
Peel-street, Adelaide.
CHEQUE BANK LTD., LONDON.
Travellers’ Drafts Cashed all over the World by up-
wards of 20,000 Banks, and by over 2200 Banks in Great
Britain.
Handbooks on Application.
NEW ADDRESS:
135 Pitt Street (near G.P.0.), MALC «LM,
SYDNEY. Agent.
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING.
BALATA
| »j M id
BELTING
Is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE to
Wm. Adams & Corapy.,
Oil Merchants A Engineers’ Fnrnisliers,
71 Clarence-st„ Sydney ; 521-r>23 Cblli:i3-3t., Mkbbourxb,
The Wild-Cat Column.
Labor-conditions at Broken Hill are causing
some anxiety. Many of the workmen are in a distinctly
rebellious mood, and don’t need much encouragement to
manifest it. On Eight-Hours Day practically the whole
of the underground men on day-shift—l9-20ths of them at
least—absented themselves in defiance of orders. Two or
three days after this (the day following a speech delivered
by the redoubtable Sleath, M.L.A.) the majority of
the truckers struck against the piece-work which had been
introduced. There are troublous times ahead, unless past
experiences are wholly useless as a guide to the future.
The truckers, who are mostly young men and of whom 90
per cent, belong to no union, had of course to return to
work as gracefully as they could. But the incident has
given the work of union-organising a fillip.
Junction North gets itself in funds in prepara-
tion for another div. by a sale of 1500 tons of shipping
ore for instant delivery. The contract was only possible
through over 1000 tons of ore being stacked on the sur-
face. The faces in this mine at the deep level have lately
been showing rather more garnet sand —the characteristic
deposit in this property; commercially valueless up to
date, and awkward to handle through its tendency to
“run.” Developments are, however, thoroughly satis-
factory. A winze below the deepest level—the 570 ft.—is
passing through friable sulphides, worth 360 z. silver and
66 per cent. lead.
Firewood costs the B.H. Proprietary Co. 14s. 6d.
per ton.- Most of it is brought in upon the Tarrawingee
line, but there are very limited supplies in that direction.
Of course not a great "deal of this fuel is used. Private
consumers in Broken Hill are paying over 20s. per ton.
The nearest supplies are towards Menindie, from 35 to 55
miles from the mines ; but no railway at present runs in
that direction.
Now estimated that from 40 to 42 per cent, of
the ore raised at Broken Hill is exported to Europe for
treatment.
“Made in Germany.” The B.H. Proprietary
now gets its coke from Germany. For a brief period
under Dibbs’ more or less Protectionist tariff, Newcastle
and other N.S.W. fields supplied the coke ; but the Con-
tinental maker is now landing a much purer article at
Port Pirie at 31s. per ton.
Concerning Silverton tram charges, thus a wit-
ness before N.S.W. Public Works Committee: “The
freight on a ton and a-half of ale from Sydney came to
£5 2s. lid., of which £2 13s. was charged by the Silverton
Tramway Co.” Silverton line is 35 miles long ; the other
distance is 300 by rail and 1250 by water.
B.H. Proprietary is reducing the strain upon its
slight carbonate reserves by the purchase of all the
second-grade concentrates produced by the British mill.
The latter treats from 2000 to 2200 tons of ore weekly, of
which about two-thirds are carbonates. The develop-
ments in the sulphide bodies in this mine are still fair in
lead, but from poor to very poor in silver. This mine
now employs about 400 men, of whom 260 are under-
ground.
The Birthday Co., Parkes, N.S.W., certainly is
the most persistently boomed mine in Australasia. Just
suppose for an instant that the alleged doings of every
other mine got proportionate space in the newspapers!
Why, there would be no room for anything else.
* * * *
Professor Liversidge finds huge beds of the
Hawkesbury sandstone to contain as much as 3dwt. of
gold to the ton, evenly distributed through the rock, and
several experts are on the search for a process to make its
extraction payable. The late Government geologist-
parson W. B. Clarke also showed free gold to occur in cer-
tain granites distributed over wide areas in N.S.W. and
Vic. Also, the Vic. coal-measures contain traces of gold,
especially in the nodules of iron pyrites or mundic. The
late Cosmo Newbery found as much as a pennyweight to
the ton in the pyrites forming the so-called platinum ore
of Colao, Vic. Also, the Silurian country rock of the gold-
fields of South-east Australia is known to be thoroughly
permeated with extremely fine, almost impalpable gold.
* * * *
Six saloon passengers, in no way connected with
one another in business, but each with several parcels of
gold-specimens, sailed for England in a late mailboat
from Sydney. A local shipping-agent says that that
batch makes a total of over a hundred financial mis-
sionaries who, to his own knowledge, have within the last
four months left Sydney for London on the same business
intent.
* * * *
The concentrates from the last crushing from
the Highland Mary mine, Swamp Oak, N.S.W. : 5 tons
3cwt. have yielded 82oz. 12dwts., worth £330. Mine said
to be looking well, and another good crushing going
through. Englishmen appear to be negotiating for the
mine.
* * * *
Having read more than 20 times during the last
few months that Mini and party, of the Big Oakey mine,
Wattle Flat, N.S.W., “ are still raising splendid stone,”
and the mine having its own battery, a crushing naturally
suggests itself.
* * * *
Mt. Drysdale mine (N.S.W.) seems to be going
back to the assay stage. One sample “has gone 1560 z.
silver, and the formation is 2ft. wide.” What would it
want to make another boom in Drysdales ?
* * * *
“ Who is floating the Welcome mine, N.S.W. ?”
The Bulletin doesn’t know. Better ask a certain tipster
who seems to know a lot about it.
* * * *
Acting on little Long worth’s advice, the lucky
Cobar tributors have bought Nymagee copper - mine,
price £lO,OOO, which will give shareholders a div. of £2
a share.
* • * •
The four English-owned mines at Lucknow,
N.S.W., employ about 600 men, and have a wages-sheet
of nearly £6OOO a month. About half is represented by
the Wentworth mine, next the Aladdin (practically the
same owners), then two purely-prospecting mines, the
Wentworth Extended and the D’Arcy Wentworth. The
vigorous mining policy followed is a sad commentary on
the hand-to-mouth way this camp was worked for 30
years. When Bull gets hold c f a good mine—and he
generally has to make it good, as in this case, by his own
development—he works it for all it is worth.
* * * *
N.S.W. mining. Rainbow and Mountain Maid
—-“ Am preparing to start trenching or costeening on 12-
acre lease.” The preparations involved in starting a
trench are so enormous that it is assumed that this camp
is reeking with excitement !
* * * *
Louis Becke has been telling in London about
a N.S.W. mine which Had “ a face of ore as big as a chalk-
cliff at Dover ” and has “ seven million tons of ore in one
patch,” and the lode runs away from the face over a mile,
it sounds painfully like the White Rock —if so, we are
sorry indeed for Becke, whose ear somebody must have
got hold of.
• * * *
A Cobar (N.S.W.) paper recently complained
about the inrush of strangers to that mining-field, and
said that “ the old business people in consequence find
themselves uncomfortably jostled.” The article con-
tinued : “ It is admittedly hard lines for men to stick by
a place through years of adversity and find those that
never sowed coming in to divide the harvest with them.”
The true t’other-sider spirit.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan for Sept. : 10,585 tons, 12,0680 z.,
equal to about half the output of Westralia.
* * * *
Jack, the boss Govt, geologist, has been over
the Palmer, Limestone, and Normanby fields. Found
people working the conglomerate on the Palmer, but “the
prospects were far from brilliant so far as immediate
results were concerned.” Mr. Jack says the reefs have
never had a fair trial, and thinks they have a future.
* * • *
The prospectus of the Resolute Gold-mining Co.,
at Walhalla, Vic., is advertised in this issue. The capital
is £lO,OOO, in 40,000 ss. shares, and the vendors ask £2500
in cash and £2500 in shares. £2500 cash goes to the co.’s
credit, and £2500 worth of shares is held in reserve. The
lease is 50 acres, with a 2ft. reef, which gave 550 z. from
16 tons. Development consists of a 200 ft. tunnel, from
which a winze is being sunk.
* * * *
Certain smart Tandy’s Dream G.M. speculators
had carrier pigeons waiting to bring news of first crushing
to Melb. Quicker than wiring from nearest station.
* * * *
Long Tunnel, Yic. (month) : 2078 tons, 19640 z.
Long Tunnel Extended month’s yield : 20630 z. Tonnage
not to hand,
* * * *
Now the “ Colonel ” has departed, the bad fea-
tures of the Buchan alleged silver-mine (Vic.) are exposed,
and they are very shocking. The Govt, geologist has
identified the mine as one he saw 20 years ago and did not
think much of then. He doubts if 10 tons of ore can be
got out, and £lOOO worth of work seems to represent
£lO,OOO expenditure.
* * * *
The exposure re the Buchan silver and lead
mine has reached W.A., where full details are published
under the headings—“ A Victorian Wild Cat,” “ Extra-
ordinary Allegations.” Having no cats of their own
some little attention must be paid to those of other places,
to vary the monotony of always describing rich gold-
mines.
* * * *
South German, one of the consistent mines of
Vic.—B29 tons, 12040 z. Croydon Consols, the boss yielder
of the camp of that name, 170 tons, 10720 z. New Bush-
man’s, N.S.W., 700 tons, 700 oz.
* * * *
Vic. Govt, has quietly dropped the intention to
send its Assistant-Geologist to Britain on a mine-booming
errand. Mr. Stirling, the professor in question, asked to
be allowed to withdraw from the proposed mission when
he heard how Collins - street had begun to associate
it with the name of a certain newspaper - man and
a coal-mining scheme. So that complimentary glass of
wine which £ £ Smith, Butters and Co. were to tender to
the young missionary at Melbourne Town Hall will have
to stay in bottle.
• * * *
Mt. Lyell, from Aug. 28 to Sept. 24, ore 2690
tons, reduced to 297 tons of matte, containing
147 tons copper, 13350 z. silver, and 4860 z. gold. Assay
value of ore : copper, 5.81 per cent.; silver, 5.340 z.; gold,
3.7dwt. to the ton.
• * * *
Mt. Lyell management has decided to erect two
more furnaces, which will increase the daily output to 500
tons, and are also contemplating an increase to 1000 tons
daily.
* * * *
Herr Haber, the distinguished expert and
geologist, lately reporting on Mt. Lyell properties, main-
tained a sphinx-like “no savee” when interrogated by
anxious boomsters as to his opinion of the “pups.” A
specimen. Boomster : “Well, Mr. Haber, what do you
think of the ‘Great Gone Coon Extended?’ Fine show,
eh ? ” Expert (adjusting his pince-nez and bowing) :
“ Aha ! you are then a geologist ? ” Boomster : “ Oh, no ;
merely asked out of curiosity. Don’t you think the show
a first-class one ? ” Expert: “ Aha ! you are then a mining
enquirer?” Boomster : “No, not at all, merely an out-
sider ; but I’m slightly interested in that property, and
should like to know your opinion of it.” Expert : “Aha !
you are then an Australian nateeve?” [Here the native
falls down dead.]
• * * *
The Curtin-Davis Proprietary (Tas.) seems to be
the show silver-and-copper mine of the west coast. Lode
small, but tunnels driven into the mountain prove its
permanency, and, in places, marvellous richness. No
stoping has yet been done, although considerable stacks
of ore have been raised, some of which is valued at £392
per ton. Principal shareholders, Knox and Schlapp, and
other pioneers of Mt. Lyell. It is only reasonable to sup-
pose that other good silver and copper deposits should
exist in the district, and more reasonable that the bosses
of the parent mine should have a call on the best.
One of the natural qualifications of a gold-pro-
ducing country is that it should produce gold. Westralia
is a great gold-producing country according to the boom-
sters of the indigenous press—therefore, it ought to pro-
duce much gold, and go on doing it. The statistics pub-
lished by Melb. Mint for the first nine months of ’96, com-
pared with ’95, are not such as will get scare-headings in
the journals of the Gilded West. For three-quarters of
’95 the product was 160,9490 z.; for the present year the
figures fall to 152,2600 z.
This is a big drop, but considered as a drop it
does not really mean much. Tire Bulletin is not anxious
to take any unfair deduction from the figures—so the
jaded journalist out West, who turns out copy (when,
according to his own specifications, he ought to be turn-
ing in millions) will recognise the true inwardness of the
figures when he reads this par. The drop in the product
is accounted for by the drop in alluvial. Reef gold has
(for W.A.) considerably increased. A year ago the banks
were bringing parcels of alluvial gold—these are now
scarce. In their place come cakes and ingots. This
aspect of the question is admittedly healthy. How
healthy? The Gilded West has the capitalisation of the
Rand—the Rand produces as much in a month as the
G.W. in a year. Even the Rand yield is a disappointment
to investors—and in Paris there has been a slump in
African mining stocks.
Westralia must produce ten times as much gold
as it is getting now before the promises of its boomsters
begin to be realised. How long, oh Western Press, how
long?
* * * *
Cabled that a protest has been raised on behalf
of £25,600,000 of Bull’s capital invested in Westralia
against the Menzies railway starting from Southern Cross.
“ It was maintained that the route would be injurious to
mining —and that the proposal of the Govt, indicated that
they were regardless of the interests of capital invested.”
'What a revelation ! Was not the railway to Southern
Cross itself built in the interests of a certain few persons
in Perth who found they had made a mad investment in
mines too poor to pay, and of course tried to pull out
with a railway for which Bull found the money ? But for
Coolgardie, Bull and the boom, the railway would have
gone to the devil or the receiver. Who, own the mines,
poor as they are at Southern Cross, also the town and
surrounding" country? Does not the devil protect his
own? The writer suspected that the W.A. Govt, would
take full advantage of the squabble between Coolgardie
and Kalgoorlie, and start the line from Southern Cross.
But if Bull kicks really hard, Forrest must kne; which
is better than crawling, anyhow. Next move, Bull will
gently force the W.A. Govt, to build, or allow others to
build, the line from Esperance to Coolgardie.
* * * *
Wired from Perth : “The Govt., after careful
consideration, has decided that Kalgoorlie is the proper
starting-point for the railway to Menzies.” Bull has
kicked.
* * * *
111 opposing the starting of the Menzies railway
from Coolgardie one man said at a recent meeting* it .vas
no use disguising the fact that the 25-Mile mines were rot
turning out as expected, and there was, thereto' e, 1.0
reason why the railway should pass that camp. By tin
way, one how hears nothing about the Premier mine
there. It had some good crushings, and one or two divs.,
and once the papers used to talk about its great per-
manency.
For Sept, the Murchison headed the list of
W.A. producing districts with over 15,0000 z. Where did
it all come from ? In the publication 'of their crushings
the Murchison men don’t seem to be up to their business.
No crushing, great or small, escapes the Coolgardie hum-
mer. If it happens to be from a mine owned entirely in
England, he makes a big guess at it.
Cue No. 1., W.A., said to have again crushed
this time 300 tons for over 3oz. to the ton. Actual
amount of gold not given.
* * * *
Victory United, Cuddingwarra, W.A. 160
tons, 5830 z. Splendid if they have plenty more of the
same sort.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Enclosed find copy of applica-
tion-paper for exemption from work on 28 Kalgoorlie
leases. It gives some idea of what is going on here.
Reason given : “ In order to allow time for the erection of
pumping and crushing machinery.” Of course, the 28
mines are all developed sufficiently for batteries, and the
question is what could be done with all the gold while
the plants are going up 7 —B.
* * * *
Something about Mt. Malcolm Proprietary,
W.A., which is much confounded with a Sydney-owned
Mt. Malcolm: “ Messrs. Harvey and Brown have just
returned from a visit, and have good cause to be satisfied.
They picked a piece of stone from the dump, and assayed
it on their return to Menzies ; result —pyrites, 17oz. ;
quartz, soz. Its weight is 6oz. lOdwt. 22gr., so the assay
is, therefore, equivalent to 220 z. to the ton.” And this
rot is printed in a W.A. mining paper. If that is the
W.A. fashion of sampling a dump, Heaven help the vic-
tims of it.
* * * *
The last from the Maritana mine, W.A. : “ The
mullocky formation near its boundary has changed to a
compact quartzite body several feet wide ! ”
*****
“Cephalos” writes from Roeburn, W. A., con-
cerning a mine there recently described as having a 14ft.
reef of lOoz. stone. It is, he says, a 24in. buck reef, with
not a particle of gold visible. When discovered it was
simply a pocket of boulders showing a few specks, the
stone assaying 17dwts. At 20ft. the buck reef came in
and remains.
* * * *
Lake View, W.A. —month’s crushing, 665 tons,
20930 z. North Boulder, 192 tons, 3980 z.
* * * *
Fraser’s mine, Southern Cross (W.A.) —900 tons,
6550 z. More than payable on this camp, where there is
a little more water and many less mines to divide it
amongst. Which makes all the difference.
* * * *
“Mr. Faithful Begg, M.P., of England, has
visited the W.A. fields, and has come to the conclusion
that their richness and extent are enormous, but the
labor covenants would have to be modified in order that
British capital might be attracted.” Is it, then, to be un-
derstood that it has never been attracted ? Wanted less
labor or more gold—which ? Less labor and more gold—
from London.
* * * *
The optimistic J. S. Read, broker, Perth :
“ Business anything but good, buyers scarce, attributable
to a variety of causes : enormous number of companies on
the market, small amount available in many cases for
working capital, necessitating regular calls, and the weak-
ness of the London market at the present moment. No
less than 49 co’s. made calls during the months. The
hundreds of miners working and producing not a color
of course has nothing to do with it. “The Nil Desper-
andum shares4n a London co. of £90,000 are well-worth
buying at about 255. There is a huge lode formation some
40ft. across which shows by panning 9dwt. per ton, and by
amalgamation process a fraction over loz. per ton.” Who
wants to sell ? That is the question. Mr. Reid should
know that no stone that only runs 9dwts. by panning will
go over an oz. by amalgamation.
* * * *
mz. Lane at Menzies: “They had many good
mines and possibly some wild-cats. (Laughter). It was
very unfortunate that the first venture made by the
French market was in the Londonderry. Had it not been
for this Paris would have been as active a speculator as
London.” Paris may well congratulate itself on its first
loss.
• * * *
Zeb. Lane fills in much of his time in talking of
what he is going to do for the Great Boulder and what it
is doing itself. The Boulder can do its own talking. It
would be more interesting to know from Zebina something
re the prbspects of one or two of the other W.A. mines he
handled in London.
* * * *
A feeling gains .ground throughout the Westra-
lian fields that the coming Christmas exemptions will see
a united' effort made by the big bosses to reduce wages.
Already the miners are preparing for the fight. Their
game is to fight against the two-months exemption usually
allowed. It is seldom availed of by the gold-producing
mines—which, unfortunately, do not number one in 100
of the total. How would it be to agree to take £1 a week
less to work where there was gold and demand £1 more
for the pain of working in mines having no chance of ever
getting any? Exemption means sparring for wind.
* * • *
Mr. “ Bill Long goes to England as chairman
of the A.J.S. Bank with a view to arranging with the
English depositors respecting a readjustment of the
interest rate. Ex. Treas. Watson will, in Mr. Long’s ab-
sence, act as chairman of the A.J.S. board.
* * * *
Jumping-frog Premier Reid, after warning the
Hawkesbury (N.S. WJnatives that protectionism increased
the number of competitors in any protected industry, and
so lowered prices (he had just before then been swearing
that protectionism raised prices by 50 percent.), began to
quote from Vic. statistics to show that protectionism in
Victoria had decreased the number of protected competi-
tors there !
. * * *
London cable: “The W.A. Land Co. has
agreed to sell the Great Southern Railway to W.A. Govt,
for £1,100,000.” At the start this was a “ wild-cat ” rail-
way, and the “ wild-cat ” and other mines of the country
saved it from insolvency. Before the goldfields broke out
it was losing over £5OO a week. No wonder Albany put
up a monument to its pioneer, Anthony Hordern. Are
the millions of, acres given for building the line included
in the bargain ?
* * * *
Things are quietening down on the Rand and
the gold output going up, July putting up the record
with- 203, 874 oz.—which, by the way, is about the Wes-
tralian output for the whole year.
* * * *
At N.S.W. Public Lending Library, books on
Africa (especially South Africa) are simply rushed. Hud-
dart Parker are sending away one steamer after another
simply packed With passengers. But it’s mostly vanity.
Africa is a nig. -labor country where even Chows can t
live ; there is only room for the specially-qualified white
supervisor.
r * * * *
Quite a considerable percentage of Melbourne’s
male population must have a notion of clearing out to
South Africa, judging from the financial success of little
“ Uitlander” Sampson’s lectures on the subject. Samp-
son holds forth, with the assistance of dissolving views, at
suburban halls, and young men put themselves consider-
ably out of their way in order to hear his remarks for a
shilling or a florin. Sampson’s advice to those about to
emigrate is “ Don’t.” He talks fluently from a good
knowledge of South African cities, and has undoubtedly
given pause to many of his hearers.
N.S. W. Premier Reid argues that Protectionism
creates and develops “sweating,” because Melbourne
tailoresses are suffering as awful horrors as their kind
in the “ sweating” dens of London. “ Then, of course,
London is under Protectionism, Mi*. Reid ?” “ Oh, dear,
no; London is Freetrade.” Which shows that “sweating,”
like measles, is not confined to any caste. But, as with
measles, the better-doctored rich patients suffer less
severely, so the better-doctored patients under Protec-
tionism stand the best chance of resistance and early re-
oovery. , * . *
Some of the big Sydney firms this year refused
to contribute anything towards the Eight-Hour demon-
stration. The chief reasons they allege (amongst them-
selves) are that the Eight-Hour committee has a balance
in hand of £5OOO (Tiie Bulletin does not know whether
this is true, or nearly true); that this sum is to he spent
on useless bricks and mortar in connection with the new
Trades Hall; and that the Eight-Hour agents are still
“on the cadge.” Notice also that Attorney-General
“ Jack ” Want has been breathing desultory threatening®
about putting a stop to Eight-Hour “ art unions.
* * * *
The Co-operative Bakery, Richmond, started
some months ago, with Rev. Chas. Strong as president,
has now 220 shareholders, 40 of whom are tramway em-
ployes, notwithstanding a tramway boss’s pointed advice
to them “ not to have anything to do with it.”
* * * *
A Melb. clergyman is said to have written off
(by compromise) 4.30,000 of boom debt.
* * * *
Vic. railway-manager Mathieson proposes to
cease running trains on a number of non-paying branch
lines (32 neither pay expenses nor interest, and 14 don t
pay interest) and work them as horse-tramways. To tnig
end he will construct a cinder-track between the rails.
Should this method not pay, he will doubtless in winter
spread mud, and in summer dust, on the track to a depth
of 3ft. and work the lines by means of Cobb’s coaches and
bullock-waggons.
* * * *
Cheerful Tasmanian item : “The liquidators of
the V.D.L. Bank have issued a second call of £1 per share
payable on or before Dec. 1.” Apropos, land-nationalisers
are always confronted by a “poor widow” argument.
The poor widows sent to the benevolent asylum per
medium of financial smashes weep in chorus for a State
Bank and land-nationalisation.
* * * *
The new Sydney Lager Bier Brewery Co. adver-
tised for a general secretary to the concern, at a salary of
£250 per annum, and got 673 applications, bankers and
ex-civil-servants of all grades largely' predominating.
* * * *
The newspaper obituary includes Charles Ernest
Clarke, of Malvern (Melb.). One of the esteemed gold
broking firm, which dates from the year One of Victorian
gold. They scooped the business out of Khull, who built
the grand Toronga mansion for Argus Mackinnon to live
in. Clever Wallen, financier and journalist, did much for
the Clarkes.
* * * *
Chow grocers have invaded Newtown (Sydney),
where the shopkeepers already reach out the haggard,
skinny arm of competition to a greater extent than in
any other suburb round Sydney.
* * * *
A grave abuse in matters re letters of adminis-
tration has been revealed in connection with a recent
Vic. probate. The only security that parties interested
in intestacies have against the mopping-up of the. pro-
perties by the administrators is the bond into which a
surety has to enter on the granting of the letters of
administration. But it seems it is quite possible, and has
happened, that a surety worth, say, £lOOO, may tie surety
for ten or more estates each worth £lOOO. So that the
beneficiaries in nine or more estates, many of them infants
of tender years, will have, in the event of one breach of
trust in one estate, nothing but the caprice of a step-
mother administratrix between themselves and starvation.
* * * *
Dr. Abrahams, the Melb. rabbi, in a much-dis-
cussed sermon, the other day, described the temperament
of the Jew as a “loving optimism”—“they make the
best of what goes on around them.” A day or two later
a well-advertised, flatfooted financier, a child of Israel,
having lent a man £3O claimed £lOO as a bonus and 10
per cent, on the debt, and secured a verdict. “ They
make the best of what goes on around them.”
* * * *
The Bananaland frozen-meat trade is in a bad
way, principally owing to the preference shown by the
British consumer for American chilled meat. The Eagle
Farm works are closed, the Townsville works are only
kept going by the tick trouble, and Lake’s Creek is losing
thousands by its frozen trade.
* * * *
The placards of a well-advertised Melb. money-
lender are being removed from the Vic. railway-stations,
where they have occupied a prominent position for some
years past. The State evidently doesn’t intend to be a
vehicle for private enterprise in that line any longer.
* * * *
Postcript to a letter received from a Sydney
man just arrived in Johannesburg : “Got a job as clerk-
of-works at £6 10s. per week the day I landed. Have
been kicking myself ever since for not asking £B, which
I’m sure I would have got.”
• * * »
The irrepressible H. L. Goodman again on the
flute on the wonders of the Ore Automatic Reduction
process. “It so prepares the ore that any of the well-
known methods for the recovery of gold can be applied to
the disintegrated ore. If the cyanide or any other wet
process is used no trouble will be experienced in what ia
known as leaching, as no slimes are produced no matter
what character of ore is treated, and if ordinary amalga-
mation is used the gold is in the best possible condition
for the saving of the mercury.” Great Scot 1 It is now being
hinted that the new process is merely a preparatory thing !
4.
Vic. Commissioner of Customs Best, in
making a presentation of a group of photos, to a
popular football captain the other day, concluded
thus : “And in presenting you with this frame of
photos., I am sure you will always look back to
the happy time you have spent with the originals
of the photos, in this frame.” But he had been
holding the wrong group, and when he presented
the captain with the photo, of a committeeman’s
wife, the audience yelled.
“Newspapers,” says Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, in advocating free newspaper postage,
“are the medium through which people keep
themselves in daily touch with the world.” The
Bible, for the matter of that, is the medium
through which people are supposed to keep them-
selves in daily touch with the next world, yet the
Bible isn’t sent free through the post. Botany
Bay taxes the Almighty, but it subsidises Mister
James Fairfax and the Crowd for whom John
Haynes cackles in the Assembly.
It was here remarked the other day that,
in the interest of the silken bonds, we should no
doubt see cinematographs of the British Royal
Family in Australia. The Bulletin now notes
that someone in London has been protesting
against the cinematoscoping of royalty and the
subsequent exhibition of the photographs, on the
ground that in one of the series the Prince of
Wales is represented scratching his royal head.
The cinematoscoper has hastened to explain that
“ the movement referred to is simply a momentary
placing of the hand to the ear, probably to brush
away an intrusive fly.” It would never do for the
Prince to publicly scratch his head. People might
think there was something in it.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY,
The Celebrated Orient Clothing 1
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Out from the Best Models, and the
.A. TIE SI .A. 3L, S THOBOTTG-HLY SHTBTHOC.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING PICNICING
OFFICE - BUSH - SPORT
PROMENADE TRAVELLING and EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.) ’
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
g
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION.
rrHIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Blight,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the Sight. By post, 3s. per bottle.
jgSgr'Manufnelnrpd Solelv by 11. A. KOSK, (liciuist.
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TYPHOID
Dr. Grksswbll, Chairman
Melb. Health Board, says:
•‘Out and out Jeffery’s are the best filters.” The Pro-
fessor of Hygiene, Melb. University, says: “Ordinary
filters are powerless against germs so small as typhoid
germs; use a JEFFERY FILTER.'* The
Jeffery Filter principle is highly recommended by the
President N.S.W. Health Board. Write or call on J.
PEARDON, 4 Bond-street, SYDNEY ; or J. JEFFERY,
89 Spring-st., MELBOURNE. Prices, 15s. fid to £‘i.
Society
COOLALTA
CAMEO
Melb. Presbyterian Assembly, which finds
that in Chow and South Sea Mission work a know-
ledge of obstetrics is a necessity, howls because the
Women’s Hospital authorities will not allow their
divinity students to walk the maternity wards
with the medicals. The way of the transgressor
will be hard indeed if the Assembly gets its way.
At present the “ erring sister ” is at any rate free
from the tyranny of cant while in hospital—
doctors, medical students, and nurses are people of
the world, without snuffle or prudery—but with a
herd of pimply, white-faced youths over-running
the wards and talking about “ Sin,” while the in-
evitable W.C.T.U. harridan sniffs round in search
of the cause of the patient’s fall with corroborative
details, the outlook of the “girl who has been be-
trayed ” will be as sad as that of the fictitious
article of the drama.
* * ¥ *
The S.A. Register and the Conservative
party generally, in Adelaide, are keeping the local
hospital trouble alive in the hope that eventually
it will smash the Kingston Govt. Telegrams on
the subject are sent to the Argus, the S.M.
Herald, and Brisbane Courier, which all
TU QUOQUE.
PASTORALIST BROTHER: “Now, this is the pride of the station; isn’t he
simply beautiful? ”
CITY SISTER (superciliously) : “ Ye-e-s; that is—he would be more beautiful
if he had not so many wrinkles.”
P. B. (ungallantly): “So would you.”
emanate from the Register office, and must be
discounted accordingly.
* * * *
The S.A. doctors and the Opposition
are loudly demanding an “impartial enquiry”
into hospital, affairs by “ independent ” men.
Cool. When Drs. Napier and Smith arrived the
Adelaide doctors decided to ignore them—
“ ignore,” unlike “ boycott,” being a Lawnorder
word. Recently, Melbourne and Sydney doctors,
interviewed by an Adelaide delegate, met and
carried resolutions to support their fellow unionists
in Adelaide. So where are the impartial doctors
to come from ?
» * * *
In the visiting-book of a N.Q. hospital:—
Visited hospital, finde Cooke in Bead with feavour.
Close poles is badly wanted.
Signed .
The writer of the above rules the committee, but
it is stated that his drinks are much better than
his grammar.
The competition among clergymen at-
tached to Melb. general cemetery is one of the
most interesting developments of true religion.
Several denominations have representatives there
daily (“corpse-watching,” it is termed), and
directly the sound of wheels is heard these
gentlemen, or some of them, hurry towards
the cortege in best sprinting form, with the
hearse for winning - post and the undertaker
for judge. If the corpse is guaranteed to have
had a special brand of faith the representatives of
the other denominations retire, and the lucky man
composes his face to an expression of woe and gets
through the patter, returning to wait for another
dead-’un. If the referee declares that the de-
ceased had no particular religion, the gospel-
grinders compete as vigorously for the job as
hawkers canvass for customers at the markets on
Saturday evenings, until the planter of stiffs ends
the debate by his decision. The alleged favoritism
shown towards one particular clergyman has
given rise to suggestions that he has managed to
euchre his rivals by dividing the “ commish ” with
the corpse-carters.
* * * *
More sweating ! A Melb. parson has
owned up that he receives 255. a week from a
matrimonial agency to marry people —“ take ’em
as they come, no matter what denomination.”
* * * *
The Civic Club being organised in Sydney,
in imitation of the Melb. Stock Exchange Club,
already numbers nearly 700 members. It will be
a “ lunching club,” and will probably play up with
the restaurants. But why anybody should wish
to belong to a club which aims at a thousand
members or over is not very clear.
The childlike and bland Li Hung was
working for old Fatman, when they had a quarrel
over a contract for planting fruit-trees. Fatman
insisted on the agreement being carried out at a
sweating wage, and Hung reluctantly and swear-
ingly gave way and planted the orchard, but took
the precaution every night to sit up and boil the
roots first.
New Women
old girls in search of
fresh men.
A little re tick-
generation. The male
roams restlessly
about all over the
beast, his victim.
Madame, his spouse,
burrows and delves
and sucks and sati-
ates herself till her
time is full. Then
she drops to the
ground and deposits
her eggs, which hatch
in about three weeks.
Bv the way, it may
interest some South-
erners to know that
the tick is already
hardened and accli-
matised to salted
hide, and he takes to
brine pickle like a
sea-bath.
Melb. District
Coroner Candle r
gives a reward of
10s. for every corpse
rescued from the Yar-
ra, while his col-
league, City Coroner
Dicky Youl, sternly
insists on cadavers
being brought ashore
gratis. The regula-
tions of each are
known backwards by
the Yarra - bankers,
and consequently,
whenever a floating
corpse is sighted,
there is an immedi-
ate rush to tow it
up-stream out of the
city boundary. It is
then landed and the
police informed of
the fact with a de-
mand for a “ arf
jimmy.”
The Bulletin hears that only one orphan
is booked for assistance under N.S.W. Police
Fund rules. Is there any other body of men in
Australia with a fund for its disabled and un-
fortunate which can show such a scarcity of
orphan ?
* * * *
“ His Majesty (the Czar) then clinked glasses with the
President of the French Republic, and the band played
the ‘Marseillaise.’”—Cablegram.
Habitue: “A
colossal hunch of
stale bread, fully
half a loaf, was
lying to-day ever
so long on a
beautiful morocco
chair in the classic
department of
Melb. Public
Library. A deli-
cate new line of
charity ? ”
* * *
The poor
night - virgins are
quite in love with
the new word,
and refer to each
other as “ That
trilby! ” with
familiar feminine
scorn. Occa-
sionally it is
“That blankv
trilby ! ’’-but the
intention is just as
good.
* * *
N. : “T h e
Argus had a tren-
chant letter to-
day, from an in-
fluential Church
of Englander, on
the folly of im-
porting foreign
bishops, and all
the other high-
wage men. This
was evoked by a
trio of three
foreign prelates,
from chalky Al-
bion, and very
chalky, pawky,
dry, ineffectual,
forcible-feeble, off -
the-nail, dusty
personages, too,
monopolising the
talk for the Aus-
tralian Church at
a representative
gathering, while
all the girls were
thinking, with
justice, how very
much better our
curate, the native
Mr. Gu m sucker,
could do it, be-
cause the trees of
the Lord are full
of sap, the cedars
of Lebanon and
the stringy barks
of Dandenong
which he hath
planted.”
Southern divers brag about the Catterthuri
business as if it were something marvellous
(writes a correspondent), and speak of 26J
fathoms as record dicing. Twenty-six and a-
half fathoms is an every-day occurrence up in
the Straits, and Torresian divers occasionally
venture 30 fathoms after shell. Thirty-two
fithorns, however, spells paralysis and sudden
death.
ON A SUBURBAN COURSE—ANY DAY.
FIRST PUNTER “ Lambswool must win to-day. The stable have their
money on.”
SECOND DITTO: “ But the public are backing Bullswool.”
BOOKIE (who knows what the stewards are backing): “Ten to one the
held — bar one.”
Queensland has its weekly leper, Victoria
has its annual jury scandal. In the Mercantile
Bank business the Grand Jury had an alien con-
cealed about its person, and the result was wreck-
age. In the Abrahams case, an outsider got en-
tangled and gaoled by trying to “approach” a
juryman. In the Rapiport-Baxter fiasco the
jury supplied a subsidiary reserve scandal. Two
foremen were appointed, and if Chief-Justice
Madden had not talked straight, this pretty inci-
dent would have furnished a chance for quashing
proceedings. Now the City of Melbourne Bank
directors have a jury adventure of their own.
INDEPENDENT OF HIS BILLET.
WARDER: “ What d’yer mean by walking about in the presence of the governor
with yer hands in yer pockets? Why, man, it’s more than I dare do,”
PRISONER : “ Yes; he can sack you, but he can't sack me.”
According to Bourke Telegraph, a mob
of 56 Chinese passed into Queensland, the other
day, via Avon Downs, being supplied with food
and rations by the cook and gardener on the
station. Inasmuch, however, as the immigrating
Chows did not report themselves to the police, the
Government and its officials took no cognisance of
this increase in the pig-tailed population. Such
invasions don’t count in the statistics.
v A Bulletin cor-
respondent relates
several alleged cases of
callous cruelty on the
part of Sydney su-
burban landlords, re-
putedly most religious
men. In one of these
cases the landlord is
said to have sold off a
widow for rent, and as
the sale didn’t realise
all the debt, he ac-
cepted the unfortunate
woman’s wedding-ring
for the balance and
turned her adrift.
* *
J.D. : “ For four
weeks I have lived in
a central Tasmanian
hamlet. Fourteen
women, five of them
under thirty years of
age, and three of these
with babies in arms,
have begged their way
through the village
during that period.
This to my personal
knowledge, and to
Australasia’s eternal
shame. And the snow
still lies white on the
foothills of Ben Lo-
mond, three short
leagues away.”
* *
Grilhooley, from the
backblocks : —“ Some-
one said you could tell
what a people were by
the songs they sing.
According to this, the
British and colonials
are all gravediggers
and undertakers.”
Pastor Fitchett’s blood-and-thunder is
affecting the cherished principles of his rev.
brethren. One of them, Parson Nisbet, of Haw-
thorn, has sermonised on the subject, confessing
that the “Heeds that Won the Empire” yarns
have roused all the “fighting” instincts of his
nature, and that notwithstanding “we say in
calmer moments that moral courage is of far
higher value than physical courage,” “we know
that nothing that we could read of moral courage
would impress us in the same way.” From this
to the canonisation of Tom Sayers, Jem Mace,
Peter Jackson, and J. L. Sullivan is but a short
step.
St. Patrick met old King Bill-ee,
King Billy of the Boyne.
Says Bill—“ How are .you Pat?” says he .. .
Says Pat —“ I’m doin’foine.
An’ will vez have a taste ? ” . . . Says Bill—
“ You take your blessed oath I will! ”
They faced each other, smile for smile,
They gripped their handclasp tauter,
They clinked their brimming glasses, while
The band played- 1 * Boiling Water ” ! . . .
Says Pat __“ « The Glorious Twelfth,’ Oi say ! ”
Says Bill —“ And here’s 1 St. Patrick’s Day ’! ”


LOMBARDIA,
THE GREAT PILE SPECIFIC
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
Before trying other so-called Remedies you
should ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a
Pot of Lombardia, and take no other. Only ONE
Trial is asked.
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
P MCDONALD, Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
The opinion of N.S.W. Bar is that there
would be no reserved judgments if “Jack ” Want,
Q.C., had a seat on the Bench.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictiires ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
MATRIMONY.
“Weldon’s Matrimonial Gazette.*' ’
Price, 2d. Published Weekly.
TERSE, BRIGHT, CRISP, ENTERTAINING
AMUSING, SATIATING.
Send 2d. in stamps and a copy will be forwarded.
Box 656 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JAMES KIDMAN
BEGS TO INTIMATE THAT HE HAS
BEEN APPOINTED
ear SOLE AGENT IN N.S. WALES
FOR THE
VICTORIA LASER BIER, b.,»„
(Pfaudler Vacuum System),
AND IS NOW IN A POSITION TO SUPPLY THE GENERAL PUBLIC AT
Bs. 9d. per Single Dozen Quarts; Bs. 6d. per Dozen by the Case.
SPECIAL BATES IFOPL HOTELS.
KINDLY SEND FOB, A ' CIRCULAR.
The action of N.S.W. Public Service
Board in offering only 30s. for a female typist cer-
tainly savors of meanness. The Government
salary, as a rule, has much to do with the rate
paid by private individuals and firms, and if the
Government fix the pay at 30s. weekly, the private
employer will always cut under.
* • ♦ *
In Port Melbourne (and other places in
Victoria) when a careful parent finds that ,1ns
youngsters are not advancing in “ eddication ” as
rapidly as he would like, he calls around at the
State school and “plugs” the first teacher that
comes to hand. Another version of payment by
results.
C.R.: “Polite and oily Chinese hawkers
now travel around the suburbs of Melbourne sell-
ing underclothing to servant-girls on time-pay-
ment. The writer came suddenly upon one of
these Chows, who was leeringly expatiating to a
pretty housemaid on the comfort and elegance of a
set of “combinations”! The average woman,
young or old, seems to look upon the Chinaman
as a creature without a sex —or with only the rudi-
ments of a sex. Whereat the Chow smiles satyn-
Brisbane City Surveyor recently visited
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide to gain infor-
mation about abattoir matters. Later, a N.S.W.
Select Committee picnicked to Brisbane, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to enquire about—abattoirs.
By and bye, Adelaide commissioners will fly
around Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane to find
out about—abattoirs. Then a Melbourne delega-
tion will “do” Adelaide, Sydney and Brisbane,
with a view to discovering fresh things about —
abattoirs.
* * * *
The Sydney newspaper controversy be-
tween ritualistic and evangelical C. of E. parsons,
which was first started because Bishop Smith
attended a nonconformist missionary meeting,
clearly reveals the fact that the S.M. Herald is
the episcopalian parson’s organ of ventilation.
Knee-breeches and shovel-hats don’t recognise the
D.T., apparently.
It is a queer thing, by the way, that to obtain
literary rank in the S.M. Herald office you must
have been educated in a dim religious light of
some sort—as a Wesleyan or Baptist or Congrega-
tionalist parson, or even as a Christian brother,
for they aren’t prejudiced. You need not be holy,
or even a believer—they aren’t particular about
that; it seems to be only the clerical stiffness they
want, not necessarily the piety.
* * * »
The definition of domestic servant in the
proposed Vic. Servants Registry-offices Act in-
cludes “lady helps and governesses.” Under
woman-suffrage, the drafter of that provision
would probably be sentenced to be flayed alive.
A demand is arising in Maoriland that if
the Bill for Pawing the Girl under 1G
who is out after 10 p.m. becomes law,
policewomen shall he appointed to carry
out its provisions. The policewoman
seems to be inevitable in such a case.
No decent community can give the
male constable extensive powers to
paw nice-looking girls in the “ exe-
cootion of his dooty,” seeing that
a policeman is only human, and it
is pretty dark after 10 p.m., and
few people are about, and some
girls like policemen, and police-
men like some girls, and a man
who is legally authorised to take
pretty girls home in a fatherly
manner for a distance of per-
haps three miles along a road
which is probably rather lone-
some is exposed to tempta-
tions that aren’t adequately
paid for at 455. a week.
The policewoman, on the
other hand, would rush the
erring sister home by the neck
in a purely business fashion, and
instead of lingering on the way she
would be more likely to belt the suspect
with her truncheon to make her go faster, and
deliver her in an exhausted condition through
hard travelling. The shortest way to settle the
relative merits of the case would be to leave six
girls, who lived at exactly the same distance from
town, but after ten, and get policemen to capture
three and she-constables the other three, and see
which sex made the best average time at getting
its girl home.
* * * •
The suggestion emanating from prominent
Sydney architects that the Government should re-
sume. as a site for the new Parliamentary build-
ings, part of Upper Fort-street, Princes street,
and the contiguous locality, merits consideration.
Property there has receded and looks as if it will
continue to recede in value, and the trail of the
Mongolian and other aliens marks the corkscrew
thoroughfares. Grimy huts and festering rookeries
vie with each other for condemnation. A Sydney
resident, writing to an English magazine in 1811,
said: “ Every evening the beautyand fashion of
our young settlement may be seen promenading
that delightful part of the city called The ‘Rocks.’”
But the Rocks have lost their good character since
then. The building of anew Parliament House
there would necessitate a general cleaning up and
an extensive rebuilding of the slum region, and
any scheme which involves such a cleaning up has
much to recommend it.
UNJUMPABLE.
HE : “ Can I see you home after the dance, Miss?”
SHE: “No, thank you.”
HE : “ How is that?”
SHE: “ Well, you see, I’m what you'd call here a pegged-out claim.”
Two Melb. burglars, who burgled a pawn-
broker’s shop last week, knocked down a decrepit
old caretaker, and, because he “ hollered,” gagged,
bound, and kicked him brutally. But when next-
door assistance came in response to his first alarm
- within a minute —and the cracksmen were
WHY HE DIDN’T FEEL WELL.
“My dear Mr. O’Rooey, how depressed you look.
Disappointed va love?’
“Alas, no, madam! I have only too often been
successful.”
leaving per front door, the helpless old man was
behind them, pistol-armed, calling on them to
“stand.” He had freed himself from lashings
and gag ! You can’t beat Father Abraham by
much when his “broberties ” are in danger.
* * * *
Weird story from a Melb. correspondent
to The Bulletin
The W.C.TrU.’s City Mission people tried to persuade
three female vagrants, who were in the habit of dossing
nightly in the doorway of an Ease Melb. brewery, to put
up at one of the “ Homes.” The invitation was emphati-
cally declined, as they would have to forego their morning
draught of the warm nectar brought freely to them by the
drain leading from the brewery, and which they said they
found “ so refreshing.”
A Melb. blasphemer to The Bulletin
A local paper some time ago described the sumptuous
dresses of the ladies at a garden-party given by Bishop
Goe. How would this read :—“Miss Magdalen, pale-blue
soft silk, with deep basque fringe of gold, handsome gold
embroidery trimming, gold-and-blue bonnet; Mrs. Mary
Joseph (in Mrs. Goe’s dress), royal blue silk, with deep
basqued bodice edged with black lace. Miss Pharisee
would be bound to turn up at a Jerusalem garden-party
of the year one in a pale-grey demi-trained crbpe, with
sash of shot silk, black hat with pink roses. Nor would
Mrs. Sadducee have been lacking in terracotta and cream
fancy silk, trimmed with passementerie, foulard, guipure
and fichu. Mrs. Widow’s Mite would come up in a hand-
some cream faille veiled in black lace, black lace bonnet,
with gold ornaments. Miss Martha and Miss Mary would
respectively be in green silk gown, small fancy hat, and
heliotrope cloth, trimmed with gold. Yes, altogether
they keep up the customs. Fancy poor old Lazarus wan-
dering on Bishop Goe’s lawn, where he would find Dives,
of course, and all the Miss Diveses. Funny, you know,
but we must have pabulum. Keep up your funny reli-
gion.”
* * * •
H. : “A footprint of woe. Sitting down
in Fawkner Park (Melb.) to-day I spied a frag-
ment of a woman’s letter, on the path. Merely
the words, ‘ I cannot curse you. My poor heart is
broken.’ ”
* * * *
A Quakers' marriage—there was one in
Sydney last week—consists largely of eloquent in-
tervals of profound silence. The bride is then
silent for the first and last times of her life.
* * * *
Spagnoletti : “Thumb-nailed a matter of
ponder in Melb. to-day. A respectable funeral,
of a well-to-do person, trotting briskly to the
necropolis—not because it was late, but because
deceased didn’t want the humbug of a funeral
pace. Next the undertaker with the gin-red nose,
who blacks himself all over like the conscientious
Othello, will get a cheerful wainscot-painted
brown hearse. Or, how would a yellow hearse
with red wheels look ? ”
One of the most loathsome things you ever see
in the daily papers— The Bulletin has seen it
about a dozen times this last fortnight—is: “ the
coffin was of polished oak, with heavy silver
mountings.” Think of people being proud of
their coffin! As well be proud of your cancer.
“ The deceased gentleman died slowly of a most
beautiful malignant tumor, now on view at the
family residence.” It would be just as seemly as
the ioathsome, but now conventional under-
taker’s-cam-family puff about the heavy mount-
ings of the oaken corruption-case. As well might
the night-owl boast in print of the beauty of the
enamel which covered the hideousness of her
eczema.
* * * *
At Adelaide (S.A.), a live brown snake came out of a
domestic water-tap, the other day, as part of the regular
unily supply.
CONFESSION.
Confession's a weakness, confession’s a curse,
Confession’s an absence of sense ;
If Accused’s case is bad, ’twill become all the worse
If he’s touched with such soft penitence.
If you own to a shark of “the Devil’s Brigade ”
That you “ did it,’’ as Dean did to M ,
He may tell some superior shark in the trade,
And "the latter may—Well, there y<m are !
Heart-broken, if you are imprisoned in quod,
And you feel superstitious a bit,
And reveal your remorse to a Chieftain of God,
He may deem it his ‘ ‘ duty ” to split.
So, never put trust in a “ parson by trade,”
And lie like the Fiend to “ the Devil’s Brigade.
This gives teetotal folk the gripes ;
We’ve heard that snakes abound in “ swipes,”
By will of the Creator ;
But finding snakes in water-pipes
Is dead agen all natur !
Oh, Adelaideans, we entreat
You, learn to take your serpents neat.
Dipso.
Yiator : “ A bit raw to find anti-smoking
boards on the Yic. railway platforms, and then
for the booking-clerk to puff his filthy tobacco-
sinoke in the faces of lady ticket-buyers.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on Mb.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarilii submitted, and in no case will Mb. oe
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Mascotte :“ We were thinking how glad we
ought to be that we aren’t in gaol. If The Bulletin
printed a trace per cent, of the malicious things sent in
by women (to say nothing of men) it would be thinking
all the time how much nicer hominy would be if they
served out treacle with it J.L.B. : Why did Judge
Bogers admit Archdeacon Piddington’s evidence? The
Archdeacon was, as chaplain, clearly “ a person in autho-
rity” in the gaol B.P.H. : (1) No book on St. Beinard
breeding, but Mayhew’s hook on dogs is about the best;
Stables’ “ Our Friend the Dog” is also good. (2) From 3
to 15 ; average about 7. (3) They are frequently kept to-
gether ; above books give advice. (4) Not if they are
healthy and are given exercise Miraboo : Cannotaccept
the clipping as a basis for comment. The police-court
reports of several of the dailies are done on hearsay by all
sorts of little boys Maitland : Send along the balance-
sheet W.S.W. : Thanks W.O.M. : Handed to artist.
Coongoola : Thanks Elbow: Too long ago. But,
anyhow, your Moib. tram-man who was reprimanded for
“ Good-morning ”-ing a customer got off lightly. When a
“ gentleman as is a gentleman ” begins the day, after a.
bad night, with a head threatening to split open and
swallow his hat, a liver like a nutmeg-grater, and a skin
of shrinking sandpaper, then indeed is a bad time to bid
him “good morning.” Bully: Too many aldermen
have been butchers and grog-sellers. How can you expect
people brought up amidst the shrieks of dying swine, and
the gross brutalities inseparable from the whisky-traffic as
at present conducted, to have a strong sense of either clean-
liness or beauty? Bovis : Note posted... .Bass : The
publication of such statements would mean about 14
years’ hard L. Casern: You shouldn’t spell Deity
“ diety,” or people will think your god is your belly
Brogden : Will print Pita So-and-So: Overdone
D.C.G. : But we couldn’t print it C.C. (M.L.) : Hyp.
good Meno :It would be no more than you deserve if
we printed it Uloola : Passed A.W.S. :So many
rhymes, so many lines, and not a decent idea in the
lot Nemo : You kill it with prolixity A.L.S. : Sug-
gestion that Govt, should provide soap and water for
Sydney Lending Library habitu6s is viewed with approval.
H.B.S. : As to fathers and mothers this paper doesn’t
say ; but Australians certainly honor their holidays
Gilhooley : Send address M.H. : God may save Ire-
land, but He will infallibly burn nine-tenths of Irishmen’s
copy B. O’B. : Eighteen, are you? Well, send your
next yarn in at eighty 4 B’s. : Has it ever struck you
that it’s only by charity you get Irish stew at all?
J.B. : Force in idea; not enough in execution...... Hiram
A. : Interest too personal W. : The Australasian Home
Beading Union is a society of second-hand Tomlinsons
(vide Kipling) Beader : Perhaps; certainly no writer.
C.B.A. : What is it all about? Frank B. : But, you
know, a yarn can’t stop half-way like that. You must
complete the phrase if not the melody Sally-ho : Same
here, the interest depends on climax, and you have no
climax Watts :As told, par.-value only, S.M. : Too
rough for print E.C. : “Life” point too vague
Old Kent : Yes, and included in the intense culture of
“ the ties which bind us to the mother-country as said
culture is systematically pursued by sundry star lights of
Parliament, Press, and Pulpit—is the cultivation and pro-
pagation of political, moral, and religious cant...... Gratis :
Do you really expect that put in type? Benzine Sketch
Idea : You don’t send name and address J.M. (Euroa) :
Please send full name and address 11.E.H. : You hope
it will get into print? Only over our dead body J.B. :
“ Found Dead ” has more force; not quite enough for
space Bush Lawyer : A serious Sydney ferry-boat col-
lision, if the boat is crowded, probably means loss of life
however the passengers are packed Curly Willis: “The
women fought like bears” —to rhyme with “chairs.” If
you had to rhyme with tables, presumably they’d fight
like gables or cables Yeldt: Little in it but a sugges-
tion that you might do better D.A.B. :We haven’t
asked for Hindustani rhymes to orange any more than
we’ve asked for Esquimaux rhymes to cabbage Jacka-
roo : Dialect-poems are tedious ; don’t remember “ Out
West.” Alone : Neat; not quite enough pith Onlys :
“ Billiard ” stiff ; “ Convert ” empty ; sketches not humor
enough L.L. : Tedious A.O. : How these Scotch
doctors love one another! Nil: That was Disraeli’s:
“You Christians spit at Judaism, yet the one-half of
Christendom worships a Jew and the other half a Jewess 1”
A.W.J. : Saw it somewhere else the other day W.W.
(G.) : Not enough in either Vide et Credo :On your
own statement there was no case against the Jap. The
rest of your letter consists of a picturesque set of libels.
D. M‘L. : Humor worth about half space A.G.B. :
Too sentimentally unreal Jim : Only one fellow can
write worse—that’s B—l A.J.G. : Evening newspaper
par.—with trimmings. Both objectionable Tinkan :
Many thanks—it’s merely dull and small. So many people
supply yarns which are dull and big S. : Why not sent
in before? Infant: Better stop until you grow
Phoenix : Don’t bother with declamation : give us concrete
facts or close argument Naf : Just woke up?
Ignotus : You’re a bad man Chi: Not up for space.
Looking back, humor rather seems your foible S.M. :
Habet! What, another? Habent! then W.M.F. : Wo-
man’s “virtue” in that senseisamere convention. Intrinsi-
cally, it doesn’t matter a straw whether it’s sold to one man
or a dozen Fitz : Theme wants a little more practised
handling S.M. : Haven’t quite the hang of G.W.G.
Did we reprint? Esa : Authority for Parkes par ?
Yellobuk : Three gasps, a spasm, and a third-rate up-
heaval. Biffed! Scrub: Fluent and flat Morse:
The sweated S.A. telegraph-operator at £lOO a year is
employed for his whole time. Is the allegedly-sweated
N.S.W. postmaster at same screw so employed ? or is he a
countryman who runs a post-office and a dozen other
things ?


Tl,e Mot Ci a I Lifs li)S(iraoc? Conjpapy
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
or NEW YORK.
The Largest, Wealthiest, and Most Progressive Life Insurance Company.
ASSETS (December 31, 1895)
RESERVE EUND
SURPLUS **’ ,
INCOME for 1895
NEW BUSINESS PAID EOR IN 1895 *" ...
INSURANCE and ANNUITIES IN FORCE " ...
PLANS OF INSURANCE TO SUIT ALL REQUIREMENTS.
For information thereof apply to
Tl>c MANAGER,
COMPANY’S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Or at the Branch Offices— Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
... <£45,423,"762
39,907,014
5.516,748
9,978,938
... 30,296,933
184,614,877
BAGS.
PURSES.
We have just opened a choice assort-
ment of Bags and Purses in Lizard,
Crocodile, Russia, Morocco, Su6de and
Leather. All sizes, all shades, all
prices—
From 1/3 to 21/.
W. T. WATERS & CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumiers & Milliners,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
From Queensland estimates for 1896-’97
is omitted for the first time the item—“ To salary
of public hangman.”
At a recent Vic. agricultural show, while
the milking was going on for Gov. Brassey’s medal
for the best butter-making cow, one of the stewards
noticed cream dropping from the sleeve of an at-
tendant on one of the cows. A search revealed in
the man’s sleeve a baby’s bottle containing Hlb.
of cream with an indiarubber tube attach, d,
through which the cream was dropping into the
milking-bucket.
Dear Bulletin,—ifc shearing-tallies, the
following records may throw some light on the
subject:—
Billy Power.—3l6 crossbred lambs at Bogarda, Blackall
(Q.), in ’92—by hand.
Billy Power.—239 ewes on “The Creeks,” N.S.W., in
90—by hand.
Jack Howe.—32l crossbred lambs at Bogarda in ’92—
by hand.
Jack Howe.—3l9 ewes in Queensland, the winning tally
for the “ Eucalyptus ” prize.
Alick Miller.—249 ewes, fair sheep, Charlotte Plains*
Cunnamulla, in ’B9—by hand.
Jack Reid.—22s ewes and hoggets, both at “ Kallara ”
and “ Belford ” in ’B7, done in 7h. 40m. by hand.
Jack Mitchell.—237 ewes and lambs at “ Big Springs ”
Wagga Wagga, in ’9o—by hand.
The latter shore on this occasion 3672 sheep in
18 days.—B.D.S.
Under the S.A. Electoral Act it is neces-
sary for candidates at Parliamentary elections to
file, within a few weeks of the return of the writ,
a statement of their expenses, which are limited
by Statute. The intention was to make the
matter public, but such heavy fees are charged for
inspecting the documents that it would have cost
about .£l5 to obtain the figures in re the Assembly
election last April. To get over this difficulty a
motion for a Parliamentary return was recently
tabled in the Assembly, but the Govt, opposed it
and it was defeated. Then the democrats in the
Council took the matter up, and, as they were not
personally interested, a majority there ordered the
figures to be laid on the table of that Chamber,
but they have not been printed. The Adelaide
press refuses to publish the returns, as the pro-
prietors wish to compel their advertisement in the
ordinary way and immediately after the close of
the elections, so that the constituents of a candi-
date may act as “private detectives” concerning
the correctness of his sworn figure.-,. The penalty
for exceeding the limit laid down or for furnishing
incorrect returns is heavy, and includes, among
other things, exclusion from Parliament for a
term covering the next general election. The
Bulletin here makes known figures which, so far,
have not seen the light in S.A. The letter “M ”
stands for Ministerialist, and “O ” for Opposition,
and in the following table are given all the
amounts over A100:
W. L. Ware, Sturt (O.), defeated, £4Ol ; A. L. Harrold,
North Adelaide (O.), elected, £344 ; J. Darling, East
Torrens (O.), elected, £317 ; W. E. Stock, Sturt (O.), de-
feated, £313; J. Riddoch. Victoria (O.), defeated, £248;
T. Bruce, East Adelaide (O.), defeated, £216; Jenkin
Coles, Light (Speaker), elected, £202 ; J. T. Soheatk, East
Adelaide (M.), elected, £175 ; W. H. Duncan, Onkapa-
ringa (O.), elected, £165 ; J. G. Jenkins, Sturt (Works
Minister), elected, £155; B. Moulden, Mount Barker (O.),
defeated, £128; E. W. Hawker, Stanley (O.), defeated,
£ll5 ;W. T. Mortlock, Flinders (O.), elected, £111; John
Downer, Barossa (O.), elected, £lO5 ; J. Vardon, West
Torrens (O), defeated, £104; W. Griffiths, N. Territory
(M.), elected, £lO2 ; A. Catt, Gladstone (China Com.),
elected, £100; J. A. M‘Lachlan, Victoria (O.), defeated,
£lOO.
Tiie Labor-members elected got througli their
troubles at the polls very cheaply, the various
amounts sworn to by them being :
McPherson (chairman), £3B ; Archibald, £l4 ; Batchelor,
£11; Carpenter, £lB ; Coneybeer, £23 ; Hooper, £l9;
Hourigan, £l9; McGillwray, £l4 ; Poynton, £l7 ; Price,
£45 ; Roberts, £35; and Wood, £l7.
In every instance, too, they represent big districts,
being mostly returned by the city electorates.
The cost to Ministers was also comparatively
small considering the virulence with which they
were opposed. The figures are :
Kingston, £29 ; Holder, £49 ; Cockburn, £93; Jenkins,
£155 ; Gillen (dead), £18; O’Loghlen, £46.
Time deals gently with the woman who
uses “Babeskin” soap. It softly removes the
tell-tale lines of the years, and renews the delicate
bloom of youth. One shilling packages of two
cakes. S. Harris, 78 King-street, Sydney.*
X
A LUXURY.
INDIAN TWILL SHIRTS & PYJAMAS
To Measure. This material is beautifully
light, soft and porous, unshrinkable, and
very durable. Sample Shirt, 5/6, or 30/-
half-doz. Sample Pyjama Suit, 8/6. Post free throughout
the colonies. State height, natural chest measurement,
and size of collar usually worn. Write for patterns
I’IKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, Brisbane.
A
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ rv ~ Sydney, Oct. 13, 1896.
Mr Dear Myee—
Guvmentouse garden-party guests, on Tuesday
°L: • * week ; were °f different ranks. To the
official eye, vice-regal invitations are like the Vic.
Oovt. stamp on the exported butter-boxes : they
cover graded qualities of the product. The expert
can distinguish at once between “private dinner ”
ball or garden-party,” and “ garden-party only ”
folk. Indeed, some of our Very Nicest would feel
uneasy if they knew how they are all ticked-off
Visitors Book thus: “Mrs. Dash, rich
« at°w, daughter engaged to Mr. Blank, R.N.”
Mr. Asterisk, station heavily mortgaged, five
daughters all out, garden-parties only.” “Miss
Hyphen, young, pretty, large dinners.” In the
local Doomsday Book, one star differeth very
much from another in glory. Last week’s revel
swallowed pretty nearly everybody on the list—in-
cluding a large, black, thin clerical contingent,
who all looked as if a three months’ dietary of
stou t and oysters at somebody else’s expense would
do them a world of good.
■f ashions were as varied as their wearers. From
the lady in the gown from gay Paree with six
godets in her skirt (I counted ’em) to a survival
from the hoary past who wandered around in
ringlets and bottle-green gloves (and other things,
i «? urse > fuere were exemplars of every style, in-
cluding sheath-skirts, bishops, and other ana-
chronisms. Among the throng the really well-
dressed women stood out—on the gravel-path
mostly for a 13-yard skirt is lost in a crowd.
Oolors were brilliant and atrocious 9 and there was
as much tinting on the faces as on the gowns.
15ut, then, what is one to do when the shade of the
season is green a color which turns nine women
out of ten a ghastly yellow ?
One very snappy costume in the fashionable hue
was topped off effectively with a whipped-cream
ettect in white puffings and bonnet with rose-pink
ribbons ; another green frock had cerise-velvet
fixings and an expensive appearance. There were
acres of grass-lawn usefully bringing up to date
last year’s soiled silk frocks. A military band on
the lawn, with feather-dusters in their hats,
mingled Wagner and comic-opera attractively.
Refreshments were vigorously struggled for in a
tent and on the verandah, where enthusiasts glued
their noses to the dining-room windows and
criticised the vice-regal table-decorations. The
preliminary hand-shake was performed under the
auspices of an outraged butler, who cried indig-
nantly at intervals, “no cards, please,” to those
over-anxious strugglers who insisted on thrusting
their pasteboards on him. Lady Hampden,
plainly dressed in black, suffered the grasp of
thousands with well-simulated gladness for hours,
but his Ex. and daughters collapsed early and
glided unobtrusively from the greetings.
The Y.M.C.A. hall seems to be saturated with
San key, and the enskied and painted choir-chairs in
the organ loft, when empty, don’t look much less
wooden than when their usual occupiers sit up in
them. But sometimes classical music is let loose
there, as on last Wednesday night at the Rivers All-
press violin recital, and then the Cultured attend
and, reading their annotated programmes, feel thrills
and raptures accordingly. Mr. Allpress was very
much applauded, especially for his “ Trillo del
Diavolo,” the comb and curl-paper effects in the
trillos ” being particularly Satanic. The violin
as a solo instrument needs to be played with a
broad quill pen, so to speak : with a pin-pointed
mb it becomes suggestive of the consequences of
eating unripe fruit. Mr. Allpress and Miss
Lottie Hyam gave the audience a great treat,
however, m Creig’s picturesque Sonata in C
minor. Miss V. Young, in a pretty white satin
-frock sang with applause, but she hardly made
her ‘ Summer Night ” warm enough.
f-fjris show up well on such an occasion
as the Hospital sports at Moore Park last Satur-
day, but they don’t begin to understand how to
boom a charity f6te. They were content to help
along the good cause by drifting about with
flowers, or unobtrusively vending ices in tents to
such as penetrated under the canvas of the Nicest
m search of refreshments. Perhaps they con-
sidered that the common herd got their shillings-
worth by gazing at pretty faces and high-priced
frocks, or perhaps it is bad form here to coax and
wheedle the multitude until all its coin is ulti-
mately transferred to the charity’s coffers. The
women of the sister city down below recognise
that at a fair they must hustle like mosquitoes or
the ( cause ” will get badly left, so they energeti-
cally rush into their clients enough weak tea to
float an ironclad, pin vast floral knots into reluct-
ant buttonholes, and—well, they boom the show.
The frocks at Moore Park were decidedly fetch-
ing. Post race-meeting gatherings are always
well-groomed, because of the desire to get all pos-
sible wear out of the dresses now the great occasion
is over. Government House was soberly clad.
Lady ll.’s willowy figure looked its best in black ;
her daughters, muslin-clad, adorned an aristocratic
tent. The entire list of this season’s novelties
was piled upon one costume built of Chin 6 silk
grass lawn, honiton appliqu6, lace-edged chiffon
and spangle trimming. Another ideally-cool grey
French muslin seemed to reduce the temperature
for yards in its vicinity, and the sleeves were
poems. But blue and purple on an aggressive hat
were as badly-assorted a couple as the “ Marseil-
laise ” and the Russian national hymn played
alongside each other, and made the aesthetic ob-
server as ill as the above combination of tunes did
Czar Nicholas. Talking of national anthems, when
‘ God Save ” speeded the departing vice-royalties
from the ground on Saturday, not a man lifted his
hat and not a woman arose from her seat.
Australians are not irreverent in essentials, but
.young yet to have had time to grow
' { raditions of ordering ourselves lowly and
MnrHK,!! 7 our betters.” Like Dick
i.i . ~ w f that if the catechism teaches
that the catechism is an immoral book. The
? at i7® Australian fighting Nature hand to hand
“A",® backblocks has no use for “pastors and
t q w ants a mate to talk to him as man
?? .““Jv So with the women whom the patro-
nising Girls Friendly Society and other societies
tor the encouragement of forelock-pulling try to
S™ 11 , 06 ' on the basis of the “ well-trained
nglish servant fallacy. Thank goodness, Aus-
tralian girls never know their proper stations, nor
bless the squire and his relations. What could a
young woman of any intelligence do with a “card
or inent, handed her with a condescending air of
loftiness by some chillingly grand dame as a
reward for having “acceptably served ” for some
seven years m the family of some new-rich poten-
tate, whose riches, now ascribed to “land and
nerds, began to grow only in the mists of last
generation from the back-yard and the cow? For,
after all, a station is only a glorified back-yard-
and-a-eow.
n anrma, l meeting of the local branch of the
G.h.fe>. was worked up most successfully and
energetically by the secretary, Mine, de Montemas,
who captured many bishops and other notables.
A sermon was preached by Bishop Green on the
beauty of lowliness and submission. An ob-
ject of the G.F.S. is to keep up the serf
idea and form a servant class on English lines
—domestics perfectly submissive and automatic
in manner, and indifferent if not hostile to
their employers at heart. The breezy inde-
pendence of the Australian “ general ” who works
k e ten. trained domestics does the family-
washing in the morning, hands visitors in, neatly-
capped-and-aproned in the afternoon, and gives
her mistress friendly advice on all matters from
babies to bicycling, is utterly unknown in a stiffly
starched ’Ome family. And perhaps we shall
only begin to know her value here when we lose
her through growing stylishness and unsym-
pathetic treatment, and begin to give her a card
of merit instead of a new dress.
One night recently at the Criterion there was a
large d.c. party organised by an up-to-date Darling
Foint lady, who numbers many clerics among her
relatives. Included in the party were two
bishops, an archdeacon, and three curates, all
thoroughly enjoying the perplexities of “A
Mother of Three ’ !
The horrors of the coming Sydney Summer are,
I am told, to be mitigated by a real ice rink a la
.Niagara m London, and the Foie Nord, in gay
Paree. These two resorts are still the haunt of
fashion. A new praze of that sort usually lasts ,
with the Very Nicest for two seasons, and after
that Arry and his pals crowd in, and the upper
ten withdraw. The temperature of the room is to
be lowered and raised at will. It will look some-
what abnormal to see sassiety shivering in furs in
January and February, and there will no doubt
be some terrible falls at first, for real-ice skating
differs as much from roller skating as cycling does
“ om snow-shoeing. Falling will be so cool,
though, that the prostrate ones will be reluctant
to get up again. They will imitate the poor polar-
bear in Melb. Zoo in the scorching days of last
bummer : when he was handed a large block of ice
to lick, he sat down on it until it melted all away.
It pays to be a Westralian barmaid. I hear of
the waitresses in Kalgoorlie making vast sums
weekly, and ending by marrying some English-
man with a pile and a handle to his name. Not
long ago, an enterprising Western widow, with a
grown-up family and peroxided tresses, led to the
altar a youth of 22 summers, who now considers
himself a tremendously lucky man in acquiring
a wife and family in so short a time. In this
case, the bride still consents to swell the
joint income by serving behind the bar; she
wears her hair down and sports girlish muslin
frocks, and the diggers flock around and adore.
Barmaids in the West, however, suffer the penalty
of fame. Whenever a dramatic co. strikes the
Fields, the Hebes and their escorts, who form the
d.c. audience, have to stand a running fire of chaff
from the “boys” in the back seats. “Hullo,
Maud ; what price the opera-cloak ? ” &c.
lam told of a recent Kalgoorlie show : “ Uncle
Tom ’ was the play, Hosea Easton the pious hero,
little Eva a boy, aged probably 20. The train
with the_ co. on board broke down, so the show
was late in beginning ; the gods, all smart Sydney
and Melbourne youths, hurried things up by shout-
ing the camel-drivers’cry, ‘ Hooshtah,’ and made
every lydy blush furiously by loudly greeting her
by name as she entered the hall.”
In the “ highly commended ” class is the career
of a recently-deceased Mudgee lady, aged 80. “As
a young woman she began work on the Goulburn
as the first free-selector ; single-handed she worked
her selection, doing the ring-barking and fencing
herself, and it is said by those who knew her that
she was quite equal to doing the work of two men.
By her energy and frugality she made a small
fortune out of this selection.” There is real solid
luck in this for a woman. If she has twice the
energy and saving power of a man and has the
fortune to catch a good selection before she is 50,
and slaves on it for 30 or 40 years, she can hope
to lay up her modest pile by the time she is as old
as Gladstone. And her reward is an obituary par.
praising her sterling qualities. But not her
smartness, observe, my sisters. No really clever
woman ever worked hard. The sharpest feminine
brains lurk inside the frizzled heads of the dress-
maker’s dummy-women, who have found out the
trick of making other people work for them. Just
ponder on these facts, my ardent young friends
who are scorning delights and living laborious
days in the hope of getting B.A. degrees and
other trifles. It is Amaryllis in the shade who
has the best time in this world—and don’t vou
forget it.
Musical composers sometimes find it hard to get
appropriate somnolent verse to wed to their in-
spired strains. Goring Thomas has had to alter a
word or two in Le Gay Brereton’s lines on ‘ ‘ Sleep ”to
set them successfully to a tuneful, croonful lullaby.
Compositions to hand (some of them are not more
musical than a tea-tray falling down-stairs) in-
clude L. A. Alexander’s “Pretoria” waltz, already
popular and selling well, and a “Sailor’s Serenade,”
by a brother and sister, Yardley.
Gov. Hampden, who, as a rule, drives about
everywhere in a rather old-maidish little phseton,
turned out in style for the opening of the Artists'
Exhibition on Monday afternoon in an open
landau. Carriage etiquette is suffering changes
in all directions. The bike has killed it probably,
along with the chaperon.
After the Gov. had pronounced his blessing over
the Art Society’s show on Monday last and reck-
lessly squandered some part of his hard-earned
screw in Tombola tickets, the horde of smart folk
present eagerly rushed the refreshment buffet for
tea and ices, and the nicely-spread table proved by
far one of the most popular exhibits during the
afternoon. Woman as a worker clambered con-
spicuously to the top in this very fascinating
show, but as a subject of beauty she seems to be
taking a day off. Indeed, hardly one pretty face
glances out from the vast acreage of canvas.
One nude study shows a Potteresque slightness
about the shoulders and arms, and radiantly-pretty
Miss Eva Bryan loitered inconsiderately round the
displayed attempts to fix her unusual charms with
charcoal on cardboard, and showed how futile
said attempts had turned out. Mrs. Mary Stod-
dard’s portrait of Lady Hampden shows Her Ex.
with her most sugary expression turned on full,
and the demure black silk and white fichu of the
“pretty” school. The spreading girth of the
Premier has received unnecessarily faithful treat-
ment from Gordon Coutts, who, in a fine portrait,
religiously works in every inch of vest and frock-
coat. It would have been much kinder to the
“ subject,” one would think, to have tapered the
figure gracefully off somewhere about the second
button.
The friends of Madame Henry, who for some
years has run the Cercle Litteraire Frangais, are
arranging to give her a little benefit concert and
dance in the Oddfellows’ Hall, Pitt-street, next
Tuesday evening. The dance is held out as a bait
to induce unmusical subscribers to face the concert
to the bitter end, and will be tripped to the strains
of original waltzes played and composed by Misses
Fitzstubbs, Blackston, and Summerbell.
The opening scene of “ A Gilded Fool” at the
Lyceum gives an enlightening glimpse of the inner
workings of bachelor apartments run on several
thousand annual “darlars.” Ghauncey Short’s
elegant flat, with its delicate heliotrope silken
hangings and luxurious fixings, is an appropriate
setting for the much-gilt youth in roseate pyjamas.
The hero, by the wav, discards in Sydney the
Japanese dressing-gown in which Melb. criticism
compelled him to emerge from bed ; when he dons
his terra-cotta vest and cast-iron creased clothes,
he is quite a perfect “willieboy.” Also the fur-
niture wreckage looks convincing enough that he
has made a night of it, while the band sympa-
thetically plays the curtain up with “Oh, what a
difference in the morning ! ” Nat Goodwin’s
Ghauncey is, to me, an exquisite and artistic bit
of acting, and there is a familiar air of financial
smash about the whole piece which ought to make
it catch on better than it does.
Maxine Elliott, as Margaret Ruthven, wears
satisfactory but not startling gowns ; she has a
grey poplin with a spider-crawley bodice in black
and white and fur hem-border, hat of pink chip
and black ostrich mounts ; also, a graceful evening
garb of yellow satin with black velvet cloak.
Estelle Mortimer, as Miss Jessica, wears a hand-
some flowered silk and arranges green ribbon
bands round the waist and shoulders in a cunning
way to set off a full figure. Miss Emelie Melville
has hardly physique enough to fill the bill as the
massive Maxine’s mother, and her pretty little
bird-like airs make her look rather like a dilapi-
dated linnet.
The skipper of a certain Govt, steamer believed
m punctuality. Once his wife was going with
him on a coastal excursion ; he told her to be
down on the wharf at 5 p.m. The lady promised
accordingly, and appeared with all her bandboxes
at about two minutes past the time. The steamer
had cast off her lines and was moving away, and
the captain bowed politely from the bridge, and
taking off his cap waved “ goodbye.” Philosophi-
cally packing her Gladstone into the cab again,
the lady went off home, as if she were quite used
to little things like that.
Writes my Melb. correspondent:—
“Guvmentouse has broken out into a rash of
private theatricals, which threatens to become
chronic. The trial gallop was reverently gazed
upon by some hundreds of State school teachers,
hospital nurses and other mortals of no import-
ance, but a second performance on the Monday
was submitted to a crowd of the Elect. Sassiety
has smiled on sadder shows than this. The oft-
told tale of ‘Nan. the Good-for-Nothing,’ gave
H.E.’s histrionics a chance' of emulating the
Lower Orders with considerable attention to
detail. Miss Street, in the name part, was dirty
and untidy enough to suggest the most uncared-
for gel ’ in Christendom. She had a great
show of huge shabby boots and not over-clean
white stockings ; and she ultimately cleaned
up her complexion with the sincerity of a Betsy
Jane scrubbing the front verandah after a
dust-storm. Aide-de-camp Shaftesbury looked
the carpenter to the life. A second piece,
Duchess of Bays water and Co.,’reproduced the
aspiring earl in the form of a duke who acts like a
commercial ‘ drummer ’ of the most pushing type.
“The trail of vice-regal patronage has at last
extended from the public entertainment to the
private party. A Melb. lady prints ‘ln the dis-
tinguished presence of His Excellency the Go-
vernor’ over invitations to her At Home. The
apex of snobbishness, or the very ground-floor of
humility ? Does the hostess want to rub it into
the minds of her guests that her particular little
social show is going to be made a head taller than
any other by the presence of the vice-regals ; or
does she rate herself and her hospitality at so low
a figure that she could not expect sassiety to honor
her unless she took the same precaution as the
chanty entrepreneur and first got his Ex.’s pro-
mise to attend? One of these alternatives must
De selected. You get your card of invitation and
take your choice.
. .“Theattendance at the ball in aid of the Dis-
trict Nursing Society, held at Melb. Town Hall
was a silent protest against the assumption that a’
certain little clique has only to turn its hurdy-
gurdy to make a whole lot of useful automata
dance. The frigid 200 or thereabouts who spread
themselves over the big building and endeavored
to look exclusive secured their chicken and cham-
pagne all right, but the charity in whose name the
larce was perpetrated had to go supperless to bid.
tj-oyt. Mouse was there arrayed in Solomon’s glory
ditto a number of the high-toned patronesses ;
but the cart-load of returned tickets will fall with
a sickening thud upon this particular form of
doing good by stealth.’
“ Hon. T. A. Brassey, surrounded by three old
gentlemen in spectacles and bald heads, sat in
solemn conclave at Melb. Town Hall on one recent
day, and the result has been the issue of imposing
invitations by the Imperial Federation League of
r ’. lc - to commemorate the Battle of Trafalgar.
Ihe lion and the unicorn are conspicuous in the
corner of the cards. The said Hon. proposes to
unfold himself on the principles of Imperial
defence, and, that everything* may be in keeping
visitors are enjoined to come in evening-dress. '
Lady Clarke and Co. want money for their
fever-hospital. Let them promote a bike race for
gents, over 50, a.nd get Gov. Lraisey to start.
Biggest draw on earth.
, , The way of the lady doctor is generally hard.
_ j girl, who had spent five years in carving
cadavers and studying many hours a day to
obtain the coveted M.B. degree, recently hung
out her red lamp in one of the suburbs. The
Public didnt grow delirious over the event, but
the first day at any rate brought a ring at the’bell.
1 he medicine-woman opened the door herself, and
was confronted by a greasy person in burst boots
and badly m need of a shave, who modestly in-
quired, “Could yergive me a pair of the docthors
old pants, miss ? ’ ”
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


I
J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Pbotograpbk Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New JPocket Kodak, price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM FOR 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Liss.
Remedy for Poverty.
Philanthropic men and women are theorising,
and trying to explain and modify the evils of
poverty : and yet, in spite of the almost miracui
ous increase of the “loaves and fishes,” due to
modern invention ; in spite of the advantages ot
education, and advanced civilization; poverty, a»
a pestering disease, as a threatening cloud, holds
fast upon us. Why with all our charity, with ah
our noble impulses, with all our mighty natipnai
progress, why should there be so many helpless-
many even starving ?
The cause of general poverty is not in that there
is a deficiency, but because too large a percentage
of the human race are over-burdened with care .
bound and held down by infirmities and disease,
rendering them unable to hold their own in the
struggle for life and predominance. Thousands ot
poor mortals are suffering to-dav because m
younger days, or in the prime of life, they Avert
handicapped by pain and disease. Little—seem
ingly harmless —symptoms neglected ; occasional
aches and pains, bilious attacks, or disturbance of
the stomach after meals, were allowed to increase
in frequency until they increased by their own
momentum —for habits of disease are creases in
the body often made as thoughtlessly as a fold in a
newspaper, easily smoothed and remedied at first;
neglected, they rapidly develope from ftmctionai
to organic disease, leaving the victim “ a hopeless
invalid.” If your liver (by occasional giddiness,
nausea, periodical headaches, or unnatural feelings
of melancholy) tries plainly to tell you it is over-
burdened, helpless, inactive, and weak, listen .to
its warnings and enliven it to its normal activity
by taking‘Warner’s Safe Cure, which for years
has successfully stood the severest tests by those
who have tried it for torpidity of the liver and the
weaknesses developing therefrom.
Mrs. E. Hallowes, of Bourke, N.S.W., gives he.-
experience with this medicine in these words: _“ 1
have used Warner’s Safe Cure for liver troubles
with good results. On one occassion my liver war.
very bad. I gave Warner’s Safe Cure a trial. It
not only relieved me at once, but ultimately oom
pletely cured me, and I have not had the slightest
bilious attack since.”
CaledonianLiqueurWhisky
»,"ji
«!* “I
A
siiiiiO/i
m
wmOW
tliin ” mV:**»tittitiYii
m
m
!!ll“!l'
.ytiiltlli! , i
\y
M
ISIwS
m
LL''ll
Ww
■!lll
.Millfnij
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDMSON.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers i» t&a World.
W, BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
It is said that Duncan Gillies started life
to the milk-trade in Glasgow.
Sir David Syme ? Sir Lachlan Mackinnon ?
Sir James Fairfax? What price the treble?
Hori Grey, when Governor of S.A., had
for private secretary the present Gov. Buxton’s
father.
The senior living Victorian is Frost, who
arrived in Melb. with Batman, 1835, in the
Rebecca.
Rev. Bevan, of Melbourne, now weighs
15st. He has, so far, only overcome the World
and the Devil.
The late Mrs. CARL FISCHER.
Photo, by Falk.
It is unfortunate for Yic. Crown Prose-
cutor Finlayson that the counsel opposed to him
are always exalting his ability and patting his
back.
.Tudge Edwards, born in Dunedin and edu-
cated at Dunedin High School, is the first Maori-
lander promoted to the M.L. Supreme Court
Bench.
Be the meeting of Gladstone and Li Hung
Chang, Melb. Age said that “he (Gladstone) was
able to read and write with the eye that had been
operated on.”
Lord Leigh, the late Parkes’ ancestral
landlord and Lady Jersey’s mild-mannered dad,
is now almost blind, one of his eyes having had to
be taken out a month or so ago.
‘ ‘ Kate Kelly, the daring sister of the boiler-
plated highwayman, is now a happy many-childed
matron in a Perth suburb. ” Another version is
that she died long ago of phthisis.
Leges : “ Puerile affectation for Chief
Justice Madden to write his decisions on the back
of his wife’s millinery bills, since he borrows the
trick from defunct Judge Fellows.”
Vic. Pharmacist Bosisto, after introducing
and making a market for the eucalyptus-oil indus-
try, now, when over 70, embarks joyously in per-
fume manufacturing cn his Wimmera farm.
No one in Sydney has helped more poor
people than George Hill. Hundreds will be
deeply sorry to hear that the owner of Marvel is
terribly ill—of some organic disease attended by
dropsy.
A granddaughter of Commandant John-
Bton, the Colonel George who took part in the first
N.S.W. rebellion and who “deposed” Governor
Bligh, was married a week or two ago at Annan-
dale, Sydney.
M.L. Premier Seddon chews paper vici-
ously when members stir him up in the House.
Some day, after some weird no-confidence motion,
he will have to be dug out of his dental debris with
long-handled shovels.
A patch of St. Kilda, the used-to-be
fashionable Melb. suburb, has all its streets named
after the poets, always excepting the. Australian
ones. If you find Paterson-street, it is a carcase
butcher or cats’-meat millionaire.
Had the Dacre widow, for whose demise
the Hampdens are now edged with black, had
issue, the Brands would have had to struggle along
with one peerage title the less. The individual
withers and the Brands grow more and more, one
may say.
Mr. Lachlan Beaton (well-known in con-
nection with Howard Smith and Sons, Limited),
who writes that interesting series of articles on
“London County Council” in Sydney D.T.,
lately married the eldest daughter of the late W.
B. Dailey.
Piety-pugilist Henry Varley howls aloud
in his Searchlight apropos the prohibition of
capital punishment, “Why should we break a
God-ordained law ? ” And why does Yarley chew
ham and eggs, seeing that pig is also loaded with
a God-ordained prohibition ?
The foundation - stone of St. Killian’s
(Bendigo) R.G. Cathedral was laid the other day.
Nearly the whole of the funds for the erection of
the fane are provided by the estate of that acute
business man, Dean Backhaus, whose dexterity in
the acquirement of Bendigo corner lots passed
into a proverb. When the long-haired old Ger-
man died probate was paid on <£loo,ooo, and
under the will this sum was to be placed at
interest and allowed to accumulate for a quarter
of a century, the gross amount to be used for the
erection of the cathedral now begun. Dr. Back-
hans was noted in the Roaring Days for his
remarkable medical and surgical skill, and in the
-old times saved the life of many an injured miner.
Rumored that David Syme is helping the
comps, displaced by the linotype to get out an
evening paper.
The four Aus. provinces with untitled
Premiers —N.S.W,, Vic., S.A., and M.L. —have
each a knighted Speaker.
Judge Hartley Williams, of Victoria, was
53 Oct. 15, Judge Innes, of N.S.W., 62 on Oct. 16,
and Wrixon, M.L.C., of Vic., will be 57 Oct. 18.
Premier Kingston boasts that he works 13
hours a day seven days a week, and never suffers
from overwork. He is an abstainer, non-smoker,
eats little, walks much, and says political life has
never given him a day’s illness. And the greatest
of all these secrets is—eat little.
Judge A’Beckett growled about the
crowded state of Melb. Supreme Court during
the City Bank trials. “It couldn’t be
worse,” he said, “if we gave away free
drinks.” “ Well,” said the genial Purves,
“ we have the bar here.”
The basis of a well-known “Banjo”
ballad appears to be the alleged fact that
when Charlie Kellow, Vic. cyclist, was
mining at Day Dawn, W.A., in ’94, he struck
the township one day when in funds and,
entering the only pub., asked all on the pre-
mises to “join him.” Everybody complied
save a giant Afghan, who was tethering a
gaunt camel to the verandah-post. “ Come
on, Abdullah,” called Kellow, “what are
you going to have?” The pious Mussulman
crossed himself, or did whatever is the Maho-
medan equivalent, and murmured “La Allah
il Allah. Me no drink. But his face
brightened—“ me poo’ camel drink. Mooch
thirsty.” “Right you are,” said Charlie;
“I’ll shout for the camel. Give the camel
a drink too, boss.” The landlord served the
customers, and retired to carry out the latter
order, leading the dromedary to the tank at
the rear of the premises. After about 20
minutes, Kellow wondered what had become
of the man, and, going round, found the
camel like a newly-blown football on legs.
“What’s the bill?” he demanded of the
licensee. “ Ten drinks at a bob ten
shillings,” reckoned that individual, “and 36
pints of water at a bob for the camel—just <£2
6s. ! ”
Writes “ Cobbler” :
The youngest daughter of the (Fergus) Hume family,
Mrs. Willeby Hawthorne, who, you say, is getting noticed
in London as a soprano, is not the only musical member
of the family. Miss Bessie Hume is not only a very
talented instrumentalist, but has a contralto voice which
for volume, culture, expression and range I have never
heard equalled (and I have heard the world’s contraltos).
At one time it was her intention to come out as a public
singer, but through an unfortunate fall on a voyage from
England her spine was injured, and she has been an
invalid ever since. Fergus Hume, it may not be generally
known, is a barrister, but always had a weakness for
scribbling, to which his father strongly objected ; how-
ever, he told Fergus that provided he qualified as a law-
yer he (his father) would not mind his trying literature
afterwards. Fergus duly qualified, but never practised.
Fergus Hume tried hard to get his “ Mystery of a Han-
som Cab ” accepted by a publisher; without success.
Thanks, however, to' fortunate share specs, on advice
received from Miss Cornwall (the woman financier—
Madame Midas of his novel) he was enabled to publish the
work, which, as everyone knows, was so great a (financial)
success and the foundation-stone of his prosperity.
THE USUAL MALE.
SHE: “ Well, why don’t you get a servant? Before I
married you, you were always talking about how
well off you were.”
HE : “ Yes; and I was, too—only I didn’t know it!”
By “ determination ” of the General
Synod (C. of E.) of Australia, after ’97 the Bishop
of Sydney will lie the first C. of E. Archbishop in
Australia, to be followed by others so soon as
new “ecclesiastical provinces ” are created by sub-
division. Archbishop or Archangel, Smith is still
Smith.
Just a month before his death on Oct. 3
Mr. Samuel Drew, a Brokenhillionaire who con-
tinued to keep his money, gave <£2500 to build 12
cottages for the deserving poor of Adelaide. They
are now being built, one stipulation being that no
consideration of creed shall enter into the allot-
ment of the cottages.
General Hutton has commissioned Bertram
gats- TeSris ’afftsrrs;
N.S.W. Premier of the day : “ I leave here, whore
I have, after six years’ incessant work in the De-
partment, sought restoration of my sunken
strength in Oceanic breezes and rural tranquility.'’
Dear Bulletin, —You
say that “The Vagabond”
had seen many lands before
he reached Melbourne. That
may be, but he often claimed
knowledge of that sort which
he did not possess. For in-
stance, in “ The Vagabond
Papers ” we read of how he
once crossed the Atlantic to
London “on a mission not
unconnected with the Ala-
bama claims,” and how the
express stopped at Shrews-
bury, where Lord Beacons-
field was standing on the
platform idolised by the
people of the borough which
had once treated him with
contempt. The “Vag.” mor-
alises and then describes how
“Dizzy” got into the same
compartment and chatted
with him on various topics
during the journey to Lon-
don. Well-informed people
can see the absurdity of this,
but Melbourne swailowed it
whole. Like the servant-
girl who thinks a novel is no
good unless half the chief
characters are in the peer-
age, Southern snobocracy
likes a lord, and “The Vag.”
always had one on tap. But
the absurdity of the yarn is
heightened by the fact that
the express - train had no
business to be near Shrews-
bury at all. To one fa-
miliar with the shires there
are other little discrepancies
in “ The Vag.’s ” experi-
ences of rural England.—A.
Zoologist A. J. Campbell, of Vic. Customs
Department, has almost ready a work on “Nests
and Eggs of Australian Birds.” His collection of
typical eggs now contains those of over 500 dis-
tinct species. He intends after publication of his
book to present his unique collection to the Vic.
Government as trustee for the nation.
Australian send-offs seem to be bad for
the fire-breathing martial hero. Dr. Fiaschi
returns with, mainly, glowing intentions to his
credit, and the historical Soudan chevaliers all got
back with unslaked thirsts. Even Jimmy Tyson,
who received nine days’ wondering adulation,
slumped ignobly, and the dropsical purse he had
offered to Mars was thrown back into his napless
hat.
Speaker Graham Berry’s daughter
is now a most proficient tooth-puller
and shop-teeth-builder, and is likely to
become a most fashionable expert.
There are some queer fish in the
Victorian public service. For instance,
one high-up “ official ”on entering his
subordinates’ room invariably waves
aside with a gesture befitting his im-
portant position an imaginary curtain
in the doorway, and wipes his feet on an
imaginary mat before making known his
kingly will.
Spagnoletti : “A heap of non-
sense is written re Duncan Gillies’ lazi-
ness. Forty years in politics, filled every
Ministerial billet, a keen debater, lengthy
speaker, primed up, informative, why, it
is absurd. He doesn’t go on the sui-
cidal plan of Turner, Seddon, and Bal-
lance. In truth, a man of unremitting
industry, not spread too thick.”
A certain well-advertised Austra-
lian university professor is credited
with having lately remarked in class to
a student who failed to recapitulate cor-
rectly the details of an operation ex-
plained to him: “Oh, go away and
marry a rich wife and have 14 children ;
that’s all you're fit for. I’ll write to
your mother and advise her not to waste
,£2O by trying to make a doctor out of
a like you.”
The late George Verdon, K. C. M. G.,
had a good memory, and not long before
his death paid off an old score. The
friends of a necessitous journalist tried
to organise a testimonial in recognition
of his services to art and literature
and asked Verdon, as a man of kindred
tastes, to help, but he refused to take
any jiart in the matter. The members
of the deputation, all new-chums, were
unaware that some time in the early
Sixties the journalist, then editor of an
allegedly comic paper, published a car-
toon (“ The Wreck of the Royal George”)
descriptive of several lively incidents
that occurred on the banker’s trip to
England. Verdon never forgave the
joke, and bided his time.
In a noted English trade publication “ Mr.
Justice Hodges, of the High Court of Justice,
New South Wales,’ is mentioned as having given
a high character to a certain class of whisky.
S.A. Justice Boucaut the other day:
T- Bpunas doubt «to the tag. g
rssj£?sx 5™H
prosecution. A young man wanted to know if the
head-centre, who got the blame for everything
was really dead. Counsel for both sides treated
it airily, and the Judge took no notice at all-
B. GOODSON, representative Australasian amateur cyclist.
Photo, by Dore Studios, Rockhampton.
Moree (N.S.W.) News, in its issue of
Sept. 29, publishes as original the Banjo's “ John
son’s Antidote,’’ first printed in The Bulletin »
couple of years ago. In the News aforesaid tin-
verses are signed “ F., Tareelari, 28 Sept., 1896,’
as if the gifted thief hud just thrown them off hi»
chest in time for publication.
The estate of the late Mr. Thomas Bug*
land, late chairman of the Bank of N.S. Wales,
was sworn at <£260,000, of which his sons “Fritz”
Buckland, of Wonbobbie Station, and Thoma*
Backhand, late of N.S.W. Civil Service, receivt-
<£Bo,ooo each. Mr. Buekland’s two daughters—
the wives respectively of Dr. Mac-kellar, M.L.C..
and Dr. R. L. Faith-full —are left £40,000 each.
Medical Professor Watson, of Adelaide,
who heads the rebellion against the recently-
imported doctors, Leith Napier and Ramsay
Smith, is a son of the late Sydney Grandisoc
Watson, R.N., the big Riverina squatter, “Kins
of the Upper Murray.” The professor was-
originally destined for the pulpit, and, when at
Melb. Scotch College, annexed all the available
Scripture prizes.


THE DAILY TEL]
THE KENNEL. ,
■ —.-- ;
"THE BULLDOG QUEER STREET."
// c/o<r -//- 0/77 76e
Z^yll
/yaA-fs
a 'll 7fie offers t>cz .
r- e g'aCL Qje <?/* fife
'/e^CTS , Gjffer /? a y
//7 7hr/s, L> ih ys.
gq /v//pL aszcf. 'Pr&ttffr-
//t<r afeuCe *#»r_
/pe a/L snor/a. Z. <■
/ 7-/0/V /A/
/roy'/t/e/zcc /s s/r S/A r/z/? 0/ /AA A/// /
y'/Z/f //t ■■ / r ‘ . J ‘
i' - .._ vj r\
/~l flu
L- /\f) \V
S - Set) of
R— f- B*cycle.ayd i
Comcrfot)- -Tfhfor^ 1
S’he hffal "oPr (^os^e*)'
'front Srtefcli k% a-fadty c,f7 *9*
«K mmy
jg? miw \T[W / .
7rje in. [yoduetto ii op** freeticicft uito' A/. 5 PV
# Entail JaJj facteriw sa/< tffcr&f "
- freefratk Orpi
CARTOONLETS.


t ?S e 2 '
( tz/A y"? 1 °• )
I v
"\! i* <?
aw
1%
Wfj V d\
A*
y V x /'
lu response to » cablegram to the Queen
informing her Majesty of the loyal feeling
which her long and boppv reign has created in
Victoria the Governor haa-rcceived the follow,
n, s gracious reply -"The Queen much grati-
.find and thanks her peopje in Victoria
Mr. DOWNES CARTER Raid ho desired
to move the adjournment of the House to
call attention to certain statements with __—:>
reference to the City Bank prosecution. r l lie
statements to which he referred were such
a reflection upon the honour of this country
that if the insinuation they contained were
time, it was quite time we had a second /
flood to wipe us all out.
Jjaa.cS, ,'The
1 hon. member was the otily virtuous man in /
ft /\ rm = T = m =£
s ''
eb‘+ M'/^/^yX
Mi. toy fol-
lowed, and after engaging the attention of the
House for half an hour with words, words,
announced that he meant to oppose the bill at
every stage, and concluded by “ thanking
goodness wo had ' another Chamber. ’
Ik;* »
hit rfkan/o
Rafter i,rn* Ctndfola.ee.
::C ..
S..Y
Z - I*Zio LATO '
Ct c „ o <■
e z* S /
The question of
woman suffrage was somewhat of a ticklish
one. (Laughter.)
What was now proposed was virtually in
existence, for he always understood that
“men” embraced women. (Lo’ud laughter.)
Having become one flesh they became one
/tf'Jnty'r e.tfL-A
The CHIEF SECRETARY Ha • Ra !
/ Mr. ZOX : I think the Chief Secretary and
myself are in the same boat where women are *
a=s;s s=sss= s concerned (Laughter 1 : Jy /7
i i ii i I! iiMiH&bni in 11. r
l Mr. HARPER did not object, to the bill. The
f/rf A object he lmd in interjecting when the Chief
ff Secretary was speaking was to ascertain the
grounds on which the Government was proceed- «
f//// ing in making the amendment. In his opinion i
it waß assuming a good deal to suppose that the I
■ Chinese would not make proper use of the *
Jjiew powers conferred upon them under the R
M act to v protect themselves. *He considered the
l fi amending bill was unnecessary,
1 4gs
/. -Mi*. Higgins, with his customary partiality
/ <• for middle courses, suggested as a solution
/ f»i the dillieulty that the gardener “inti- -
7 mute politely” to the professors that he
/ | would have to impound cows wandering in
J| the grounds, but .Sir John Madden, object-
II ing to ‘half measures, moved that the pro-
U lessors he told that the council “will no
* longer allow cows to hejjepasture4 on the u
University grounds/* ~
jL#c/i ‘fio/essor- /> . >
To ia.oA cxflei- h< »
MELBOURNIAN.


Not Only
A GOOD NAME! Bdt
A GOOD ARTICLE !
Billy Tea.
<Sra9<iri>a.
Fodab-
Best knowa and most
widely used.
The Purest and Best
Natural Food.
Delicious Wheat Slices.
Lovely for Puddings,
Custards, etc., etc.
JAMES INGLIS &, CO.,
Merchants, Manufacturers, Importers and Agents.
Our Name a Guarantee of
Purity ik Best Quality.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MERCHANT—'
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to Arrive
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
FLEMING’S RELIABLE BUGGIES
STATION WAGONS, HARNESS, etc., etc.
Catalogue on application.
pi
(FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
Ifoot-rot„“cure” .
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to—
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD.,
DONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents—
STANLEY QJnFFITHS Hunter 3tr«et, Sydney; GOLDSBROUGH, MORT «fe GO. Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney.; JAMES M‘EWAN & CO Ltd
Grelony; P. JLEAHMOgjH * ■GO^Hamilton: A. HARRAP & SON, Launceston, Tasmania; ROBERTS & &). Ltd, IlobartltnufuafijS’ EimcnSnv
b.A.j QUEENSLAND MERCANTILE CO. Ltd., Brisbane; BLACKBURNE & CO'., Christchurch, N.Z.; M‘B£AN,BOWSER & CO.', Perfh^J?
DENNYS, LASCELLES, AUSTIN & CO.
& CO., Adelaide: JOHN GRICE & CO.’
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Maitland (N.S.W.) cabman, the other
day, received an official notice of objection to his
name remaining on the roll, the ground of objec-
tion being that—“you are dead.”
N.S.W. Public Service Board in vain
offered two professional officers, who have decided
to take better-paid posts in other provinces, in-
creases of salary—in one case, of 66§ per cent.; in
the other, of 50 per cent. Why? Either the
Board was “ sweating ’" the indicated officers, or
it was prepared to overpay them to retain them.
Winch ?
While-the deafening racket about the
N.S. W. revolution from indirect to direct taxation
is going on, some sane persons should every now
and then exclaim loudly that N.S.W. indirect
taxes still come to £ 1,500,000 a year, while the
direct ones only reach <£670,000. The revolution
has a long way to go yet to justify the present
volume of noise.
If the changed attitude of Premier Reid
towards N.S.W. Council leads to the dispersion of
the fixed popular idea that the Protectionist party
has hitherto always allied itself with the irrespon-
sible chamber against the legitimate aspirations of
the people, it will be the best thing that could
happen to the Opposition. The moon-orbiting
Premier is now in perigee.
Bananaland squatters are always clamor-
ing for reduction of rent, concessions, &c. Here
is an extract from a pastoralist’s prospectus. The
Fairbairns own Barcaldine, Bimerah, Clare, Peak
Downs, Magenta, and Wolfang, comprising in all
1,468,713 acres (about 932,000 acres leasehold).
Net profits for six years as shown by a careful
audit, -£320,283. received by State, about
£ll,OOO.
In Maoriland, according to a Govt, return,
there are 600 girl-apprentices working without
salary. The apprentice swindle in Maoriland con-
sists in hiring a girl to learn a business with the
understanding that she receives pay after the first
year “if suitable.” No girl ever is suitable, how-
ever, after her term of gratis service expires. This
S f m A/r S x Vil^ le is - very bacl in Australia also, but
the M.L. Govt, is the only one which is trying to
crush it flat.
Newspapers, as
The Bulletin has of-
ten remarked, receive
(that is, they permit'
the sort of correspond-
ence they desire. Just
now, an alleged Wagga
(anonymous) client of
Sydney D.T. is urging
N.S. W. Govt, to fight
(fiscally, as may be
proved logically) the
Vic. Govt, in re the
carriage of daily news-
papers by rail. The
Melbourne dailies are
delivered at Wagga at
5 p.m. ; the Sydney
dailies not till 9.31 p.m.
“Fight for N.5.W.,”
says the alleged Wagga
client ; “fight for the
Sydney papers ! ” And
the D.T. publishes that
letter, without delay.
Curious, too, that the
D.T. declares itself to
be “freetrade,” and
doesn’t welcome Vic-
torian free and open
competition. More cu-
rious that the compe-
tition can’t be free and
open, because Vic.,
which is “ protection-
ist,” charges postage-
fees on the mailing of
newspapers, while N.S.
Wales (which the
“ God-fearing Govern-
ment ” says is “free-
trade ”) “protects ” lo-
cal newspapers by car-
rying them post-free.
Freetrade ,is merely a
free-grab, by everyone
for his own “ free ”
hand. Not, until the
Sydney D.T. does the
naked penance of the
ancient English king,
and is scourged by
Abbot Reid before the
altar of newspaper-
postage, and acknow-
ledges its sacrilegious
grab at the pockets of
the people (according to its own gospel) will it be
believed as a genuine freetrade organ.
The “ Freetrade ” Sydney Evening News,
moralising on Saturday last upon the application
of Freetrade principles to sugar-growing on the
Clarence, knocks the professed policy of that
paper into little bits. Why doesn’t the News
change its hour of publication and come out as
the long-desired Protectionist morning oracle ?
Roll-stuffing and working the
graveyard-vote used to be a fine art in
the bad old whisky days of Maoriland; in
fact, that province is alleged to have held
the record, and things were done there
which would make the hair of even the
Queensland Boodle Ministry stand on
end. In those days the Irish party was
strong and solid, and once when an elec-
tion up Auckland way was trembling in
the balance the party got all the bullocks
of two Irish farmers put on the roll, like-
wise two heifers, a Maori idol, and a
horse. They all voted to the satisfac-
tion of a very-drunk returning-officer,
and the Irish candidate got in by a
majority so small that it made his suppor-
ters shiver when they thought of it after-
wards. Even now there are very old
horses in some northern districts whose
votes helped materially to turn the scale
when their party was in a tight place, and
a chaff-cutter, which is said to have
once been on the roll, is still in existence.
The first article of Sydney Tele-
graph’s promised series on the evils of
Protection in Victoria contains just one
argument : that in ’93 N.S. Wales pro-
duced wealth of all kinds (pastoral, agri-
cultural, mining, manufacturing, and
other sorts) to the amount of a little over
=£35,000,000, while Victoria produced
wealth to the value of barely .£26,000,000.
Nothing is said about the fact that N.S.
Wales is nearly four times the size of Vic-
toria, or about the other fact that N.S. W.
was a protected province in ’93. In pro-
portion to area, Victoria produces 2g
times as much wealth as N.S.W. ; then
come protected Maoriland and Tasmania,
and the cornstalk straggles in fourth. In
proportion to population the protected
Queenslander produces the most wealth;
then come Maoriland, Westralia, and
N.S.W. again wanders in fourth. The
prduction argument doesn’t seem to pan
out so well as it might do.
A freed slave blessing his quondam flogger;
a pagan calling upon the idol he has burnt to
ashes; a Wesleyan kissing the Pope’s toe —these
and many other images crowd the fancy when
reading of the French Republic waving flags,
firing guns, pouring out money, getting drunk,
and metaphorically crawling on its belly, in order
to hug to its anti-monarchical bosom the Czar of
Russia—the apex of the cone of this earth’s
despotic monarchy.
FROM ROONEY’S STANDPOINT.
J.P. (to Rooney, with his head in a sling): “ You are charged with
assaulting Constable O’ Hooligan. It’s a cowardly thing -”
ROONEY (interrupting) : “ Shure, thin, it was, ycer Wash-up, for I was
lickin’ him square and fair when he drew his stick and tuck a mane
advantage of me—so just for pace sake I wint quietly.”
Rosebery’s resignation brings up anew the
late Parnell’s vaticination before the retirement of
Gladstone: “Bear in mind, when Gladstone goes
Ireland falls permanently to Harcourt; not Mor-
ley, not Rosebery, no other man alive but Har-
court; and Harcourtis our enemy.”
Sydney Telegraph :
Other things equal, there can hardly be any question
about the preferableness of penny postage to "twopenny
postage. . . . But letter-carrying costs money, and the
obligation devolves upon the Postal Department of
honestly paying its way like every other business concern.
. . . Mr. Cook stated last night that he was an advocate
of penny postage only on the condition that the country
could afford it. This is the correct view.
Also, newspaper-carrying costs money, and the
obligation which “ devolves upon the Postal De-
partment of honestly paying its way ” is not met
because of the loss incurred in subsidising the
press by free postage, and if the country can’t
afford to carry a letter to Bourke or Walgett or
Broken Hill for Id., it can’t afford to carry a
newspaper, which is far larger and heavier, there
for nothing. And that also is the “ correct view.”
Perry, M.P., Opposition whip, carried the
adjournment of N.S.W. Assembly in the small
hours of a recent sitting. Isn’t this a new prece-
dent ? The Premier and co. were mostly absent
“ refreshing,” and the incident is illustrative of
how nowanights legislation is left to take charge
of itself.
IN THE DAYS WHEN THE WORLD IS STIFF.
PUBLICAN: “What’s this tuppence-ha’penny? Why,
you owe me a penny on the last beer. ”
COMPANY-PROMOTER-IN-EMBRYO : “Oh I father says the
claim ain’t crushin' this week, but he’ll let you have
the three’ apence directly he yets the company
floated.” —(He gets the beer.)
In all comparisons between the popula-
tions, the industries, the agricultural develop-
ments, &c., of Victoria and N.S.W., it should be
remembered that N.S.W. has more than 3J times
—something between 3 7-15ths and 3 8-15ths—of
the area of Victoria. Yet the N.S.W. Freetrader,
fond of denouncing the protectionism of Victoria,
is equally fond of insisting that “everything”
comes out of “land and labor.” The tonunyrot
that can be written after gazing at any large ques-
tion through one solitary slot of an otherwise
light-excluding chamber !
A wail goes up from Vic. Opposi-
tion that Turner’s One-Adult-One-Vote
measure is “ inopportune. ” The MTntyre
crowd isn’t absolutely against it; all it
complains of is that the present isn’t the
right time to deal with the subject, and
what will be the right time it doesn’t
profess to know. Anyhow, the right
time has never come yet, and no one
sees it coming, and the MTntyre lot
doesn’t even give a description of it so
that it can be recognised when it arrives.
Good old Inopportune; what a lot of
service it does in the sacred cause of
stagnation !
The Maoriland Tory party’s case
against the measure making all interest
over 8 per cent, illegal and irrecoverable,
practically reads as follows: (1) It will
prevent borrowers getting money at all, as
lenders won’t do business at 8 per cent.
(2) It is unnecessary and ridiculous, as
interestrates are steadily going down and
promise soon to reach 2 per cent. (3) It
is a brutal infringement of the liberty of
the subject. And how, with money at
2 per cent., business will be stopped by
a legal 8 per cent, minimum, and how
the “ subject ” will be wronged, seeing
that he is doing the alleged injury to
himself, only the National Ass can
imagine.
Victoria has an admirable Health
Act for the suppression of dirty dairies,
tainted milk, diseased cows, and the like,
but the weak spot in it is that the ad-
ministration of the law is entrusted to
the municipal authorities. Apparently
municipal authorities are filthy by in-
stinct, for the Act is practically a dead
letter. The leprous heifer and the tuber-
culosed oow, and the dairy which is Bin. deep
in filth, and the milk which is ripened in an
old boot-trunk under the bed are, in most
municipalities, practically free from interference.
The general impression now is that the central
Government will have to personally tackle the en-
forcement of the Act. Local government has been
a success in almost every other respect, but the
dirtiness of the municipal fathers seems incurable.
Tas. Premier Braddon to introduce a
Referendum Bill, whereby any measure twice re-
jected by the Council may be submitted for the
yea or nay of the people. But as the landlords
don t want to abdicate, Braddon’s Bill will not be
paid on presentation. Knowing this, boodleism
in the Assembly will vociferously support the
Referendum proposals.
Barrister G. H. Reid appeared before
Judge Manning “in chambers” last week to
prove that certain action recently taken by New-
castle Marine Board was illegal. Presnmni,i v
Barrister G. H. Reid is Premier G. H. Reid who
is also N.S.W. Treas. G. H. Reid, and who as
Treasurer, is political head of all N.S.W. Marine
Boards, and is charged with the administration of
the Navigation Acts. It is a cute thing on the
part of a firm of solicitors to brief'the boss of a
department to appear against a sub-division of his
own department; but how stinkful the politics
that permit such a boss to accept fees for en-
deavoring to prove that the action of some of his
own officers has been illegal ! Also there is
nothing (if we except “goodtaste”anda’deference
to the proprieties) to prevent the Attorney-General
from accepting a brief in any such case even
though it involved “ the Crown ” in costs
~ Ti , ie berii S llt; ed M Tntyre, alleged leader of
the disintegrated Vic. Opposition
It was only fair that taxation and representation should
elections.' '' l m connection with Parliamentary
M Tntyre then goes on to say that he favors the
land-vote and opposes the land-tax.
■ Worker, is the only Q. democratic
clings frantically to the idiotic gospel
of Socialism in our time.” The Parliamentary
Labor men will have nothing of it; the other
Labororgans denounce it as utter foolishness, and
the Worker s own supporters find it necessary to
apologise for the motto that lias done the Northern
democracy an infinity of mischief.
Intyre, Leader of Vic. Opposition, on
Woman’s Suffrage:—
He had always understood that men embraced women
—(loud laughter)—he meant that they practically became
identical in becoming one flesh, and therefore that they
represented only one vote. However, if that position
was not a legitimate one he would like to know what was ?
11 he embraced his wife or sweetheart—
An Hon. Member : Which ?
No member of the Vic. Parliament can be funnier
than M Tntyre when he is frantically serious.
N.S.W. Premier Reid taunts Opposition
leader Lyne that the latter is not game to declare
his policy while he (Reid) has publicly produced
his. There’s my money,” says the confidence-
man, whose uncle has left him a million, under
express conditions that he will help deserving
stragglers ; “ there’s my money. Prodoose yours.
khow as much as that, honestly earned, and you
shall have twice the total.” The yokel produces
it, and it is “gone for ever.” The wise man pre-
tends that he has got no money. Politics is a
mere business. Both Reid and Lyne are profes-
sional politicians. Their little game is their
stock-in-trade.
BROWN BREAD.
MISTRESS : “ Good heavens, Bridget, you're making the
bread before washing your hands!”
BRIDGET : " Shure, mum, it makes no difference — it’s
BROWN BREAD.”
Q. ex-Governor Norman declares that
“ Australia is hardly alive to the dangers of hos-
tility from Asia.” Perhaps it is too busy begin-
ning to think about the dangers of hostility from
Hingland.
One absolutely irrefutable assertion of
Lyne, leader of N.S.W. Opposition, has to do
with Sydney morning press. “The morning
papers often contain articles misconstruing unre-
ported points in the speeches of the Opposition.”
This is wholly true. A sentenoe is cut out of the
reporter’s notes and given to a leader-writer;
afterwards the article goes in, but the excerpt
does not go back to its place in the report. This
is not on all occasions proof of malevolent design,
but it is sufficiently offensive to justify the speech-
maker’s indignation.
SEDDON: AN ESTIMATE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not his, perhaps, the noble aims
Marred when hard fate let Ballance die.
Nor love the great Pro-Consul claims
For altruistic chivalry.
Not Stout’s or Russell’s wasted chance,
Grasping at power beyond their reach ;
M‘Kenzie’s dourness, Ward’s finance,
Nor Reeves’s clear, incisive speech.
But with an iron will to meet
And thwart each Tory turn and twist,
Each envy-bred attack to greet
With ready tongue and heavy fist;
Strong in the people’s confidence,
Tactful o’er friend and foe to rule,
Combining with his honest sense
The “ noble firmness of the mule.”
Tyrant, they say, in use of power ;
But this, at least, deny who can :
Fate never pointed to the hour
But Premier Dick has found the man.
Gisborne, M.L.
WAIHOA.


sdf
gs
df
New Bostedo Bicycle.
“ Bostedo ” Track Bacers.
“ Bostedo ” Light Roadsters.
Ladies’ “ Bostedos ” (a Specialty).
A shipment of NEW MACHINES just
opened ; nickel plate, extra strong over copper,
highly polished, enamelled in any color, frames
made of best seamless steel tubing, dust-proof
bearings, Thor hub, adjustable handle bar.
Fisher $ [ingham,
SOLE IMPORTERS.
Spherical Cork Grips.
The “ BOSTEDO ” is instantly adjusted by pulling- a
trigger with the thumb while on the wheel or off it. The
bar is stronger than any other, and the locking device
absolute in its rigidity.
The Phillips Spherical Cork Grips are
much easier on the hands and wrists than
the old style, and will not enlarge your hands like the
ordinary grip.
There are seven positions to the “BOSTEDO”
bar, but the grips are always right, because they are
round. Fitted on any wheel. Once used, preferred to
any other.
A day’s trial may be had by calling at Fisher and
Linghain’s office, Victoria Arcade, Sydney.
I, 2, 3 Victoria Arcade, Sydney
A gents wanted in all the Cities and leading Towns of
Australia and New Zealand.
The N.S.W. Art Society’s Show.
There is a current story that N.S.W. Art Society
rejected one “ picture ” sent in for the 17th annual
exhibition, just to show its unswerving deter-
mination 'to uphold artistic ideals, at whatever
cost to the catalogue. The writer merely guaran-
tees that most of the exhibited canvases are not
worth hanging, though some of their perpetrators
come near deserving it. Really, in what purports
to be an exhibition of Art, the committee might
be a little less catholic. Perhaps their difficulty
is that of the good patriot who was convinced that
half the world wanted guillotining, and refrained
from pressing his idea merely because he knew he
badly wanted guillotining himself.
The artistic pretensions of the passing show
rest mainly on the efforts of two men, Coutts and
Piguenit, and though both show remarkably clever
and faithful work, neither attempts to infuse into
it the highest of artistic qualities—the quality of
imagination. They invent nothing, paint objec-
tively, paint outsides merely. It has been said of
Henry Lawson that he describes characteristics,
does not create characters. Coutts and Piguenit
work from a similar standpoint : they paint artis-
tic pictures without creating Art. Their hands
are admirably dexterous, but their minds are
almost quiescent. Of the two, judged by the pic-
tures shown, Piguenit gets the most artistic re-
sults. It is difficult to conceive that his beautiful
land-and-water-scapes could be better painted.
He chooses dawn or dusk, when the tints are
clear and tender; he composes his picture
with great skill, taking the best bits from
every skyline; and he reproduces laboriously,
with a neatness of drawing and a translucent per-
fection of coloring that rival in effect the charm of
Nature herself. But his method is still in essence
photographic: he has added nothing of his own :
he has merely caught a beautiful light, a beautiful
shadow of rock on water, a beautiful effect of
trees against gleaming sky, and fixed it imperish-
ably. This is good to do, but it is not the highest
Art. A really great picture is unique : it is im-
pregnated with the artist’s own personality : no
other individual in the world, it seems to one, has
had precisely the same idea, or has portrayed it in
precisely the same way. But Nature repeats
Piguenit’s pictures year after year for whomsoever
will come with no very remarkable eye to gaze
upon them. In essence, therefore, Piguenit is not
an Artist, but a Naturalist.
* * • *
This is partly why his pictures gain little from
their size but price. His “First Gleam,” at 15gs.,
is really more attractive than his “ Valley of the
Upper Murray,” at 150 gs. It is the same with
Coutts. “Waiting,” at <£2s, is quite as good an
example of his art as “At Twilight’s Hour,”
which is priced at £lBO. Coutts’s power lies most
in his fine coloring and his finer conscientiousness.
Both Coutts and Piguenit seem always trying to
do their best. (Lister seems occasionally careless
whether he does his worst.) But Coutts photo-
graphs figures just as Piguenit photographs land-
scapes. “Waiting” is all but Art: it merely
wanted a little imagination, a little more charac-
ter put into the face and eyes, and it would have
been a really fine painting. But it seems as
if the artist had been afraid to let himself go—
as if he had been afraid to drop the actual model
which' he knew he could handle, lest his
shadowy ideal should desert him also and leave
him resultless. Now, Nature never makes any
model, who is exactly, to the last jot and tittle,
what a, model might be. To express any over-
mastering emotion an artist must supplement her—
perfect her. Coutts does not seem able to do this
yet. When he can, if he can, he will be all
Artist. And why shouldn’t he ?
' * * * *
Apart from Coutts and Piguenit there is at the
Art Society’s show little to be glad and’a good
deal to be sorry about. There are some admirable
examples of technique in drawing, and one or two
in colouring. Minns has some purpler aboriginals,
and Marion Drewe’s New England aboriginal,
though less artistically done, is better done, be-
cause done less untruly. Percy Spence shines in
black and white : his more ambitious cattle-paint-
ing displays some energy and a good deal of skill,
but he has not yet excelled his “Plough-
man” picture in the N.S.W. Gallery. There
is comedy in his fowl-picture, which is very
neat in its way. H. W. Macready’s “Work” is
good and vital: a promising thing. Aline Cusack
and Win. Birkenhead work in the way of Piguenit,
and catch a good deal of his result. But, as a rule,
the artists represented are contented to creep
feebly along a beaten track : they take no initia-
tive, display no strength of conception. The
Bulletin quite recognises that they must creep
before they gang, but some of them have been
creeping for years now, and gang no forrarder.
Whence these tears in the voice of their critic.
Yic. Attorney-General Isaacs intends in-
troducing a Bill to deal with the rates of interest
chargeable, by money-lenders. Another attack
upon Capital ! Soon a man will not be able to
get a living in Victoria except by working for it.
Sydney Truth deplores that several Euro-
pean Powers “ are awaiting a chance to dismember
our Empire.” Yet Truth calls itself a republican
organ ! “ Our Empire ! ” A phrase worthy of
Sydney D.T., which boasts of the British navy as
“ our navy,” and of even Indian troops as “ our
army.” Australia is an adolescent republic, just
beginning to feel for the first hairs of its
moustache.
The Curse of Dean still works. Exactly
one year, to a day, from the date of Crick’s arrest,
his dear friend, John Norton, was committed for
alleged sedition. Also, the Curse seems to have
fallen on the convicted murderers Dederer : Arch-
deacon Piddington’s recent terrible error of judg-
ment probably arose from a misconception by him
of the trend of the discussion re the historical
action of Salomons, Q.C., in disclosing “in the
interests of justice ” information professionally
gained.
Dr. Fiaschi, of Sydney, who volunteered
for Abyssinian war service, and has just returned
to Sydney, per American mail, has in the British
Medical Journal of Aug. 29 a peculiarly-inter-
esting paper entitled “ A Report on the Mutil-
ated and Evirated of the Battle of Adowa,” from
which it appears that the Abyssinians, when they
took black soldiers prisoners, cut off the right
hand and left foot to prevent them fighting again ;
but, when they caught Italians, they invariably
emasculated them to' prevent the continuance of
the race of the accursed white fighters as far as
possible. Also, though the arm and leg amputa-
tions were made simply by sweeping a sword or
dagger through the joint, without any attempt at
forming any sort of surgical flaps, the recoveries
were almost uniformly good, thus showing what
splendid constitutions the African blacks have
while still in the Dark Continent. Curiously
enough, American records show that the slaves
there rapidly deteriorated when they took to
white man’'! inod, *nd were carried off in thou-
sands by phthisis
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Albert Trott and Jack Harry” (writes
“ Monico” to The Bulletin from London) “ left England
per Oruba Sept. 4, both looking well, and the veteran
especially much younger. They are returning next
season to qualify for Middlesex. A.E.’s bowling record is
better than his batting, showing 2074 balls for 1171 runs
and 43 wickets, an average of 27'23, and placing him 37th
amongst English bowlers.
“ Yorkshire are the cricket champions for ’96,
having lost but three matches. Surrey, the premiers for
the past three years, are but fourth on the list, having
been defeated seven times owing chiefly to what is now
widely termed the ‘ Surrey rot.’ When Abel, Hayward,
and Richardson fail, Surrey fails. The ‘ tykes ’ are the
best all-round county and have fairly earned their honors.
Lancashire is second, thanks to M'Laren, and Middlesex
a poor third.
“F. (ancy) S. (tuff) Jackson heads the batting
of the champions and comes eighth in the all-England
averages with 40.83. It is. related of this very self-appre-
ciative cricketer that, having made a fairly large score in
a college match, he replied to the congratulations of an
admirer : ‘ Ya-as, I’m glad I made a scoah ; it may help
fathahin his politics.’ ‘Father’was afterwards Chief-
Secretary for Ireland, so perhaps it did.
“ The Australians, who conclude their English
tour this week with a defeat and a probable victory, are
admitted to have been less susceptible to the Great National
, Thirst than any of their predecessors. On the night pre-
ceding the final test every man was in bed at 10.30. Of
course there were sufficient lapses to secure the team
from the sneer of ‘ cast-iron cherubs,’ but they were of a
temporary nature. The thanks of Australia are due to
the one player who ‘ stood out,’ and sacrificed himself on
the ‘ toasting ’ rack to shield his comrades.
“Grace in ‘undress’ usually wears a black
loosely-fitting beaufort, pillar-y shaped trousers of the
hue of the St. Kilda Red Bluff, and a square-crowned
brown bowler. He thus has a striking resemblance to the
Goulburn Valley farmer for whom so many kind friends
wait at Spencer-street to show the city sights and a pecu-
liar match-box.
“The death of Mrs. Jack Barrett was a great
blow to her husband, the doctor-cricketer. The body has
been embalmed, and will be taken to Australia for inter-
ment.”
* * * *
Grace’s captainship in the fatal test-match is
something for inexperienced Australian cricketers to
remember. Grace changed the bowling when one Aus.
wicket was down for 0; took off Richardson, who had
bowled Iredale a maiden, and put on Peel with Hearne.
Then seven for 14 ! Great Scott! Why didn’t the Aus-
tralians send in their wives ?
* * * *
The thoroughly professional spirit in which
W. G. Grace plays cricket was never better shown than in
his creating the precedent that when an injured batsman
has another man to run for him, that other must wear
pads—as many pads as the disabled one. He should have
been thorough while at it, and insisted on the substitute
wearing not lighter boots, or lighter pants, or less hat or
moustache. The boss amateur was always the boss
pointer of English cricket.
* * * *
Wicket-keeper Jarvis (S.A.) will be 36 to-
morrow, Sunday, Oct. 18. Jarvis, who did not succeed
with his Adelaide sports-depot business, has gone back
to his trade as blacksmith. Darling, bv the way, has
now a monopoly of the Adelaide cricket anil football trade.
* * * *
Adelaide cricket-matches are again to be played
this year on the two halves of Adelaide Oval. For years
cricket experts have ascribed the dearth of good fieldmen
and bowlers in the S.A. teams to this fact. No bowler
can possibly develope when batsmen can score four runs
for a hit which on larger grounds would be fielded. The
small playing-space is killing S.A. junior bowlers and
spoiling the batsmen, but the agitation for a change is
steadily ignored.
* * * •
M‘Kibbin was admitted in England to be boss
break bowler ; in fact, his big break lost almost more
wickets than it gained on sticky pitches ; since it would
bowl the batsman and miss the sticks.
* * * *
Iredale was one of the studies of the tour.
During the excitement of the second test-match he put a
wet towel round his head to deafen the crowd’s din. One
day he failed like a dead man, the next he pasted All-
England. In the outfield he took 35 consecutive catches,
and was ranked the first outfield in the world.
* * * *
Mold, the English fast bowler, knocked a bail
63yds. 6in. from the sticks in Surrey v. Lancashire.
Previous best was 62yds. by Rotheram (Eng.). Mold’s
ball is the sort that hitting a batsman is likelv to knock
his pluck clean out of the ground; or, as in “the case of
George Giffen and others, bowls them before they come in.
¥ ¥ * *
“Joe’’Trott told an English interviewer that
when he left Australia with the ’BB team he scaled list. ;
after the toar he was 14st. 21b. When he started from
Aus. this trip he was 12st. 121 b.; now he weighs 14st. 101 b.
And, remarks Joe, “ I don’t know whether it’s the climate
or the exercise.”
• * * •
Will Ranjitsinghi become the W. G. Grace of
English cricket ? This year he ties W.G.’s ten centuries
in one season. Grace put up his ten in ’7l. This year,
too, the Indian has put up a new record for English
cricket by scoring two centuries in one day. His 154 not
out was the highest score made against the recent Aus.
eleven in England. By the way, Ranji. considered
Trumble “the best bowler in England.”
» * * *
The Sydney cricket-season began last Saturday
with O. Gregory (Syd.’s brother) heading the individual
senior scoreswith 82. Camphin put up 72, Robinson 55.
The best score of a side was East Sydney’s 255. Morgan
(Leichhardt) got five North Sydney wickets for 43 runs
* » * *
Albert Trott says English batting and bowling,
on the whole, are above Australian. Ranjitsinjhi is Eng-
land’s wonder; fields with a rubber backbone, and
astonishes batsmen with his leg-pull. Also, the Aus.
team died in the test-matches for want of a hitter and a
left-hand bowler. Trott returns to Eng. to play for Mid-
dlesex.
• • * $
One reason for the former preponderance of
football over cricket interest lay in the fact that cricket-
matclies may take days to play, whilst a game of football
is decided in a couple of hours. With one day’s play not
one of Saturday’s Melb. cricket-matches is advanced be-
yond the first innings.
* * * *
• Manager Musgrove has all the best of the argu-
ment with the meddlesome Australian Cricket Council.
He points out that the trip will only delay the team’s
arrival in Australia by two weeks in the early part of the
season ; that the team took upon itself all financial re-
sponsibility of the tour, and therefore deserves all the
success it can command ; that the team has worthily up-
held the fame of Australian cricket; that it should not
be called upon to break faith with M.L., especially as no
previous team has been peremptorily ordered back by the
Council. The Council’s case is first to call the team “ a
money-grubbing, vagabondising combination” ; secondly,
to assert that the Council, by arranging the “ test match
in Sydney, gave the team £llOO, which is bosh, since the
cricketers, not the Council, commanded the public, and
the public, not the Council, paid the £1100; thirdly, that
the Council lent the team £3O0 —which was promptly re-
funded, perhaps with interest or perhaps without.
* * » *
Harry Musgrove’s idea of taking a team of 20
Australian baseball players to the United States next
Spring is a perfectly lovely notion ; why no one ever
thought of it before is a mystery. Australians don’t play
baseball, but they are hard-up enough and clever enough
with hand, foot and eye to learn baseball or any other
game which will pay dividends. The Great Republic will
be a huge hunting-ground for the Australian representa-
tive baseballer; success in the game means more cash
than the Australian cricketer can catch in England. Base-
ball —by all means let us play baseball. It was a foolish
thing for that Yankee baseball team to come here ; but to
take an Australian team to the States is a perfect inspira-
tion.
* * * *
The Centennial Football Club, winners of the
premiership of the N.S.W. Northern District, began the
season under the most inauspicious circumstances. It
was heavily in debt and had only six players remaining,
four of whom, however, were interprovincial men. Wal.
Oobb, the popular full-back and captain of the team,
stuck to his uphill task with unusual spirit and determin-
ation. This club has a singular record. Of the first 73
matches which it played as juniors it won 72. Their
first year as seniors saw them easily premier. On the
death of Cobb’s brother, who, it will be remembered,
expired in the football field, the club became hopelessly
demoralised. This year, however, it has pulled itself
together and re-asserted its supremacy.
* * * •
Copy of the conclusion to a letter of application
for a billet (as accountant), recently received by a town
firm : —“ I was in ’s employ for some years as clerk,
and then left to go as bookkeeper on a cattle-station. I
left there through getting hurt while out mustering.
Seeing your firm are enthusiasts in sport, I am a little in
that line myself, as I was in the club that won the junior
premiership last year, and have since played senior; and
if you have any Brisbane footballers in your establishment,
you will find I am ‘ not so stinking,’ as the saying is.
I am also a fair cricketer, as the score-hooks of the
Cricket Club can testify, and it was in acting as see. and
treas. of the above club that I picked up my knowledge
of bookkeeping. I am offered another job here, but, if
you answer quickly, I would kindly oblige, as I would like
to play with your boys.”
» * * *
The Vic. Football Ass. strictly forbids profes-
sionalism in its ranks; yet (writes “ The Jay ” to The
Bulletin) it is alleged to have been declared on behalf of
nine leading players in a certain very big match that they
would play “ stiff” in that momentous contest unless they
received more than 20s. each —(it appeared two leading
players were to receive more than the others). The com-
mittee were told of the players' decision, and were given
till the evening before the match to increase the rate all-
round. Outcome : the committee decided to increase the
amount to £2 each.
* * * *
The Melb. police showed keen foresight on the
Saturday evening of Collingwood’s football premiership
victory, by sending Black Maria to that ambrosial suburb.
Had “ South” been successful, they would probably have
been favored with the presence of the legal conveyance.
As it happened, a hearse seemed more suited to their
needs.
* * * *
If the mishap to Fort had been as slight as was
at first supposed it would possibly have given the Caul-
field Cup to the son of Gibraltar. The average Australian
horse needs an interruption in his training to prevent him
from coming to the post “ overdone.” Hence the resusci-
tated Miraculum has friends for Melb. Cup.
* * * *
Jim Gough is among the many who reckon that
Newhaven will win the double —Derby and Cup. All the
same, the chestnut colt isn’t a more likely Cup-winner on
paper than Loyalty was in Tarcoola’s year. Loyalty fol-
lowed up his early three-year old performances in the
Spring Stakes and Craven Plate at Randwick (Newhaven
lately scored in the same two races) by winning the Melb.
Stakes (1J mile) brilliantly. And then he couldn’t stay
the Cup distance, with 7st. 31b. in the saddle. And
against Newhaven’s chance it must be noted that the
“hot pot” is a Newminster, whose offspring are rather
notorious for being non-stayers in their young days, and
long-distance goers when they get seasoned. Vengeance
and Idolator were cases in point.
¥ * * *
The best Adelaide judges seem to be more fond
of Broken Hill (despite his dicky leg) for Melbourne Cup
than of Thunder Queen for the Caulfield. But the mare
ought to finish near the winner next Saturday.
♦ * * *
First-day results of the V.A.T.C. meeting
afforded three pieces of valuable information re the
coming Cups. In the first place, Hopscotch stood out
from a crowd of seeming commoners as a very probable
winner of the lj-mile race. Hopscotch stays well enough,
it may be, until he gets tackled by an equally fast horse,
such as the Hova and Wallace of last year. Nothing
troubled the big chestnut on Saturday, and his strong,
masterful finish in the Toorak Handicap suggests that he
ought to go very close for the Caulfield Cup if Hon. Bill
Long, in his doubtful, wisdom, doesn’t reserve his cham-
pion for the longer journey at Flemington. At time of
writing, the stable intentions are misty.
The run-away victory of Hopscotch in Caulfield
Stakes is said to have been less remarkable, under the
circumstances, than it appeared at the moment. They
took the precaution to run him in light plates, conse-
quently he galloped easily, whilst the barefooted toilers
in his rear failed to get a good hold of the greasy ground.
This was the excuse offered by several losing jockeys
after the race, and it seems reasonable.
Wallace’s decent performance in the Stakes
gave the public some little encouragement to hope that
the hero of last season will re-assert himself. The writer
fears that Wallace has “ gone off,” like Carnage, his half-
brother. He has thickened ;he ran more lazily than ever
on Saturday, and his white hind-leg threatens to be dotty
when the ground hardens. Nevertheless, Wallace, who
seems to have done plenty of good work, came at the
finish of the Stakes with a few imposing strides, and next
to Hopscotch he was the least distressed animal in the
crowd.
The downing of Newhaven in the Guineas may,
or may not, have been a real defeat. Anyway, it proved
that W. T. Jones’s “pot” couldn’t do as he liked with
them at the end of a fast-run mile. Newhaven was not
“ making hacks ” of Coil and Cydnus as they came
together down the straight, and granting that The
Officer’s run took him unawares there still remains the
doubt as to whether he could have stalled off the challenge
of Cook’s horse even if jockey Holmes had blown a
whistle to notify the favorite that he was rushing up.
One thing is certain. The faces of Newhaven’s friends
after the race were painfully sad, and they didn’t feel
cocksure of upsetting the Guineas “ form” at Flemington.
Evidently The Officer, a strapping son of Robinson
Crusoe, and reputed to be the apple of Sam Cook’s other
eye, is a good three-year-old, with a brilliant turn of
speed.
As regards Caulfield Cup chances, last week The
Bulletin named The Parisienne, Bloodshot, Marusa, and
Duhallowin preference to Hopscotch, Merry Boy, Thunder
Queen, Ayrshire, and W. R. Wilson’s chosen, which latter
will be Resolute, all going well with the youngster mean-
while. Of the nine candidates aforesaid the writer has
lost faith in Bloodshot, Duhallow, and Ayrshire, for one
reason or other. The bad-tempered Maorilander seems
not to be ripe for a severe tussle. Duhallow ran roguishly
the other day and may be getting stale, whilst Ayrshire is
not fancied (by those who should know) as much as his
stable-companion Marusa. Also, it may be said of Du-
hallow that he has no visible pull over Excel, Canoona, or
one or two other second-rate horses that are favorably
handicapped. Many people swear by Excel.
Tempering its previous opinion with last Satur-
day’s experience, The Bulletin now takes Parisienne,
Resolute, Hopscotch, and Thunder Queen —four horses
to fill the first three places. Three of them will
certainly run, bar accidents. If this season’s three-
year-olds are a pretty good lot (and they look
it), the older horses, being a rather poor lot, with
the solitary exception of Hopscotch, can’t be ex-
pected to run away from the young ’uns in accordance
with Caulfield Cup traditions. Thunder Queen has
“ form” to recommend her, Le Yar is a stylish colt, and
Resolute, handicapped at the weight which Waterfall won
with last year, is worth backing before any other three-
year-old in the race. Hopscotch and Parisienne are
here reckoned the best chances among the older
animals. The big horse may not start, and
should he go for all he is worth even then the doubt as
to his stamina will, to the writer’s way of thinking, make
him a less tempting investment at the price than The
Parisienne. She is very well just now, and Holmes is al-
most certain to have the mount. The race that has twice
gone to Paris may this year be captured by The Parisienne,
and perhaps Resolute and Hopscotch may see the lady
home. All the same, there is no special reason for sug-
gesting that this tip will turn out better than many
former tips for the same race. As a rule The Bulletin
can’t guess what is going to win Caulfield Cup, so in the
possible event of Parisienne proving the exception this
newspaper will not feel puffed up.
Marusa, Erelnvon, and Bloodshot have been
scratched.
All things considered, the greatest surprise of
last Saturday’s sport at Caulfield was Galway’s starting
price. Galway had not been seen on the course since he
won a sensational steeplechase after falling at one of the
half-way jumps. The gelding then showed such speed
that he was surely worth backing in moderate hurdle-
race company —nevertheless, the Ballarat gelding went
out at 10 to 1. Nothing seemed to have a chance with
the good thing, save Wirrawa, who suddenly dropped out
of it three furlongs from home. Young Wirrawa ought
to win a hurdle-race shortly.
* * • *
Mr. W. A. Long left Melbourne at 1 o’clock on
Saturday, which must have galled him at least a little,
considering his horse. Hopscotch, was destined to win the
double at Caulfield in the afternoon. It may be safely
surmised, however, that the impassive Mr. Long had backed
the gelding for sufficient to pay the ex’s of his trip ere
leaving Melbourne.
* * * *
Another Carbine, Metford, won the Debutant
Stakes at Caulfield. Each winner that turns up makes it
more evident the horse should never have been allowed to
cross the pond.
* * * *
N.S.W., with a numerically weak contingent,
did exceedingly well on the opening day of the Southern
carnival, winning the three principal races and running
third in two of them. Le Var, Reka and Lieutenant are
three more or less show-cards yet to be played.
* * * *
Considering there was no rival meeting, Sydney
Hospital sports proved but a dead-and-alive success. Only
5000 of the Sydney crowd thought it worth while to see
considerable athletic talent perform under a hot sun, in
the presence of vice-royalty, for a blue ribbon and the
good cause.
The Maypole Dance, being performed by chil-
dren, fell flat as a sermon. Sydney’s crowd is blas6 ; the
dancing of young children bores it to death. If the Hos-
pital sports management would supply a high-kicker on
a raised platform, while Bilmartin, dressed in tights, went
round and sold button-holes and cadged silver, the result
would be an eye-opener.
The cycling part of the bill brought out two fine
rides by M’Coombe and Kerr. M'Coombe, off 20yds., did
the half-mile in lmin. 2sec.; Kerr, off ser., in lmin. 2 4-ssec.
G. Mead ham, with lmin. 3 2-ssec., previously held the half-
mile record on Sydney Agri. Ground. Kerr’s brother was
timekeeper for Kerr. Goodson, the Rockhamptonite, did
not compete ; he has gone home.
The programme dragged heavily; quarter-hour
waits completely ruined the crowd’s temper. Some of
the trying intervals were made more miserable by the
spectacle of Y.M.O.A. young men springing and vaulting
and climbing about parallel - bars and things. The
Y.M.O.A. young man should never be allowed to do any-
thing in public, until the public has left. Because the
said young man never seems to do anything which is
worth doing.
While the Hospital nurses were selling sweets
and roses at 50 times their value the Ikey Mo tough im-
proved the shining hour by howling the odds and making
occasional hauls. No official suppressed Ikey ; the charity
spirit, which is the church spirit, which is the bazaar
spirit, which is the gambling spirit, tolerated him at his
loudest.
Davison tried to ride a race with a finish against
M‘Coombe in the mile scratch race, but when it came to
the final spurt Davison was thrown yards behind by
M'Ooombe’s first effort.
(“ Sporting Notions ” continued on page 20.)


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital pa'yable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities ioi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PAREITT, Manager.
HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Ltd.
Incorporated under the “ Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £1,609,685 19 2
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,607,635 011
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 140,314 010
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirW. A.ZeaIjK.C.M.G., M.L.C.;Auditors: W.H.Tuekett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
HE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £369,230
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 300,000
RESERVE FUND .. ... 31,500
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Trustees, Executors, <U Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £43,733 0 0
DIRECTORS : E. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman; John Grice, Esq., O. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.G. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delabay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estates undertaken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CLARKE & CO.,
STOCK & SHARE BROKERS,
309 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone No. 314. Melbourne.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James' School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :—■
6d. per month for every .£1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
phoenix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed .£20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘ Mandarin ’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, which
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards and most tender skins
ire unanimous in saying that with no
ither Razors can they obtain
mch a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
is with Arbenz’s. Made
yy A. Arbenz, Jougne, .
Prance, and lntroducer of the
arx --m -- mowios - -a ’ ... ,
i Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Ot
’rincipal Importers.
IK GRANDEST ADVERTISEMENT for
‘ ‘ ORA NGE LIL Y” is the
nber of Wonderful Cures it has effected right, here in
City. Sensible women please note. 26 Imperial
adeS, ydney. Call or write. Lady in attendance.
gs
PROSPECTUS of tbe
Resolute gold-mining Company,
WALHALLA.
To be Registered as a No-Liability Company, under Part 11. of The Companies’ Act 1890.
Capital
,000 iQ 40,000 Shares of SS.
(All of which are fully paid up.)
W.
20,000 Shares are offered to the public at 2s. 6d. on application and 2s. 6d. on allotment.
£2500 clear of all expenses to be placed to the credit of the company.
10,000 Shares are retained by the Vendors as part payment for the property.
10,000 Shares are to be held in reserve for future issue for the benefit of the company.
DIRECTORS :
(To be appointed at Pirst Meeting of Shareholders.)
BANKERS :
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
MANAGER (pro tem.):
HERBERT W. DAY, 173 Moorabool-street, Geelong.
BROKERS:
FORSTER WOODS & SMITH, 34 Queen-street, Melbourne; DAY & PETERS, Mining
Exchange, Ballarat; H. S. WYATT, Mining Exchange, Ballarat; W. H. VIVIAN, Stock
Exchange, Sydney, N.S.W. ,
is®" Application for Shares may be made to the Legal Manager or Brokers.
lUsokite Gold-njioiOg Conjpaoy.
This company is being formed the purpose of acquiring and further developing the leases known as
Clough’s, consisting of about fifty (50) acres, situated at Walhalla. ,
There is a tunnel driven into the hill about 200 ft., giving about 2ooft. of backs to work upon.
The stone varies in size from Ift. lOin. to 2ft., arid going strong underfoot; a winze is now being
sunk, frofn which excellent prospects have been obtained. The crushings from a poor battery yielded
550 z. of gold from 16 tons of stone. ' . , . . ... (
A battery will be purchased as soon as the company is formed, and as there is a large quantity ot
stone in sight, crushing will be started as soon as the battery is erected.
The company will be considered floated when 10,000 shares have been sold, m which case £lOOO
will be put to the credit of the company, and the proceeds of 6000 more shares when sold will also be
placed to credit of the company ; proceeds of 4000 remaining shares go to the vendors.
The following is the report of Mr. F. Tupper, who has had a large experience of mining in this
district . Walhalla, 15th August, 1896.
I beg to report having visited Clough’s Tunnel, now called the Resolute, on Saturday last, and was greatly taken
with the show. The claim is situated about a mile to the east of the Long Tunnel mine. ~
The reef is 2ft. wide and showing beautiful gold. A winze is being sunk, which shows the reef is making uider as
it goes down ;it has a beautiful footwall and hanging wall. If it continues the way it is at present, it will be another
There is every convenience for a battery, plenty of water, a creek flowing all the year round traverses the pro-
perty, and there is timber in abundance.
(Signed) Frederick Tupper.
um
lyjpTD
THE
4 Plum*
GENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
-p • I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
irrice Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKRN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
PERDRIAU & 00.,
270 GEORGE STREET, ,SY I)N EY.
HOS€ for BR€W€RS.
HOSE for 6ARPEMS.
HOSC for STEAM.
Hose Fittings & Sprays.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Beg to advise all who are suffering from a COUGH to use
Dr. Thompson’s Cough Linctus, Is. per Bottle.
To make PASTRY Light and Wholesome use
A. Soyer’s Baking or Yeast Powder, 6d. per Tin.
Of all Grocers.
To enjoy MEAT, GAME, EISH, etc., use
Soul’s Australian Relish, 6d. per Bottle.
To be had everywhere.
If you have INDIGESTION—the Bane of Mankind —use
Steam’s Compound Essence of Pepsine, 2s. per Bottle.
If you are troubled with ECZEMA, or any Irritation of the Skin, Pimples, etc., use
Dr. Bumstead’s Sarsaparilla, 4s. per Bottle.
Our Stock comprises mostly all Goods known in the Drug business, and of the best quality
only. Nearly everything under drug advertisements in this paper we keep.
PRESCRIPTIONS ACCURATETY COMPOUNDED AT A MODERATE RATE.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
Ms.P. SOCIETY, N.S.W.,
158 & 268 Fitt Street;, Sydney, and at
Cla.ia.rcJa. and Pliillip Streets, Parramatta.
Tlxe Largest & Oldest Ssta'blisb.mezi.t in Sydney.
Suits, 42/-; Trousers, 12/6.
JOHN GRAHAM, 510 George Street, Sydney
CNeak PARK STREET).
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £6,000,000
Paid-op .. .. .. £3,955,281 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: VVm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol.
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Dishopstjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with asrency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
Banh of Neiv South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital .. ._ .. £3,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital 1,928,380 0 0
Reserved Fund 1,183,576 12 9
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Rorert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
lion. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
James R. Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
Loudon Office—Old Bread Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
tiie United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects foi
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in publio
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2o,|negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.”
Bankers to the Government of Queensland,
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 886,839 2 7
Directors:
Hon. F. H. Hart, M.L.C., Chairman ; Hon. Boyd D. More-
head, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir A. H. Painter, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.;
A. B. Webster, Esq.
Acting General Manager : Walter Vardon Ralston.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Cable Address— RiemSElL. TELEPHONE No. 695.
Code— Morking & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke - & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS,
Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide
(Lane Australasia Chambers, King William St.).
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks. Special attention given to business in Bank
Deposit Receipts.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
John Macg'reg'or
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
BROKZER. „
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-C.vanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office', Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
W. A. Kingsborough,
SHAREBROKER.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
T. J. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
BA.LLA.RA.T.
VOLCANIC
O <3L di "W dL> "t G T
Is ABSOLUTELY PURE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
The Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Co./
I Bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST. -«
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, T ASM AAI A.
MELBOURNE 0. 3rd November.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me-
Shares in the above.
Nairn
Address
t==s
MELBOURNE 0. 3rd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : Shares in the above.
Name ;
Address
mmmmm
MELBOURNE C. 3rd November.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me I Shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full narticulars read our Printed Circulars.


BUCKLEY & HUM Ltd.,
Bourse Street, MELBOURNE.
Importers & manueacturers,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sols A gents for the “Victoria” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ ... ... ... £l<; and £2l
LADIES’ £lB and £2l
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1896 im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies’
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
Copies of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp
on “Piles and How to Cure Them,” without
operation, by the great “Cannalin” treatment,
free on application. Depot for Australasia, 257
George-street, Sydney.*
Mr. Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., has com-
menced practice as a patents agent in Sydney.
Mr. Griffith drafted the Bill now before Parlia-
ment to bring this colony within the pro visions of
the International Patents Convention, so as to
secure to a local patentee protection in all the
countries within the convention.*
The prospectors of a proved rich and pay-
able sft. reef in the Bathurst district, New South
Wales, will be glad to be joined by a number of
co-operating investors willing to” provide the
money to work it. This is a chance that doesn’t
often occur of making quickly a big gain by a very
small outlay. Shares, £1 each. No calls, no
liability, no forfeiture. Particulars forwarded on
application to “Miner,” c/o W. G. Spence
Worker office, 227 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.*
Mahlstick: 1 ‘Outbrief candle! DuMaurier.
An artist with about seven puppets, and a dog.
His women, to my idea, are more conventional
and much less pleasant than those of Leech.
Trench critics dub Keene the overlooked genius
of Punch. Beside the infinitely superior social
drawings of Partridge, of late, I have been unable
to tolerate Du Maurier. He is no loss to the
London Charivari. An artist, nowadays, must
work in the spirit of Mulready, who, as a veteran,
drew with the lads in the Life School.”
The failure of the jury to agree in re the
criminal charge of libel preferred by the N.S.W.
authorities against John Norton, editor of Sydney
Truth, for libelling Queen Victoria, is a severe
knock-m-the-eye for the Crown, but cannot be
marvelled at considering the circumstances sur-
rounding the initiation of certain more or less
recent criminal prosecutions. Norton defended
himself most adroitly, and throughout held the
advantage which an able amateur lawyer always
holds before a jury over his professional anta-
gonist.
Lord Rosebery’s resignation of British
Liberal leadership, so far as he is personally con-
cerned, merely removes the fifth wheel from the
party coach. His rule was never very popular or
very successful, and he was only foisted on the
party by an intrigue which wounded Harcourt
and enraged Labouchere. But Rosebery the
name-and-influence counts for a great deal more
than Rosebery the man. His retirement means
difficulty in managing that large section of the
Liberal-party which likes to crawl pleasantly after
a peer.
The Vic. Royal Commission on legal pro-
cedure will bring some spicy evidence to light.
Tor instance: A farmer near the Yan Yean,
whose wife had been burnt by a fire lit by Board
of Works employes, claimed <£lso damages. But I
the White Knight got his back up at the enormity j
of allowing ratepayers to be robbed thus —he I
resisted the claim, and the farmer went to law. j
Result, verdict for plaintiff. The Board appealed.
At the second trial the jury disagreed. Trial
No. 3, verdict for plaintiff with costs, and this
time the judges had not face enough to order a
fourth. The cost to the country is something like
£3OOO. ' b
The sudden illness of the Czar was caused
by bad cooking. It is obvious that the French
do. not use Johnston’s Self-baster. See advt. in
this issue.*
“The Bushman’s Song,” “Last Week,”
and “Daylight is Dying,” the three songs from
“ The Man from Snowy River,” recently set to
music, are now having an enormous sale. They
may be had from Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
and all musicsellers. Post free, 2/2 each.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Eno’s “ Fruit Salt ” possesses the power of
reparation when digestion has been disturbed or
lost through alcoholic drinks, fatty substances, or
want of exercise. If its great value in keeping
the body in health were universally known, no
family would be without it. Sold by all chemists
and stores.*
Mr. Arthur Griffith wishes to notify intend-
ing patentees that he has commenced practice as a
Patents and Trade Marks Agent at 39 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. He has entered into arrange-
ments with leading agents in Europe, America,
Australasia, and South Africa, so that inventors
may rely upon having their interests protected.
Mr. Griffith’s charges will, in all cases, be so
moderate as to place a patent within the reach of
the poorest inventor. For £2O, exclusive of the
cost of plans, Mr. Griffith will obtain Provisional
Protection for any invention in the seven Austra-
lasian colonies and Great Britain.*
While Capt. Slocum, of the yacht Spray,
was in Newcastle, the mission steamer, John
Williams, called for bunker coal. The sky-pilots
paid him a visit and openly expressed their
astonishment at the hardihood of a man who
could trust himself lone handed in mid-ocean in
such a craft. Their astonishment became still
greater when they saw his navigating instruments,
which consisted of a rusty sextant, an old-
fashioned chronometer and a battered telescope.
“You must indeed trust a great deal in the
Almighty,” said one of the reverend gentlemen.
“Well, yes, sometimes I do,” said Slocum. On
leaving the Spray they invited him to pay them a
return visit. The following day Slocum boarded
the John Williams and was shown all-round. The
chart-room especially interested him. It was fur-
nished with a couple of Sir Win. Thompson’s
spirit compasses, three of the latest type of
chronometers, and with all the most recent forms
of navigating instruments. Slocum examined
them with great attention, and then gravely said :
“ I guess, gentlemen, you don’t trust much to the
Almighty in this hooker.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
Death.
GRIFFITHS.—On September 27, at her resid-
ence, Sentinel Road, Ponsonby, Emma, the
beloved wife of Albert Griffiths, and dear mother
of Charles Frederick Griffiths, Werter Albert
Griffiths, and Harold Egbert Griffiths, all of
Auckland, aged 66. A patient sufferer for years.
Rest at last.
W. W. GREENER’S
-4
CELEBRATED
6(iqS& Rifles
Can now be purchased through
all the principal dealers in the
Australasian colonies.
Mr. C. H. KERRY won the
100-guineas Hordern Pigeon-shoot-
ing Trophy with a GREENER gun.
This trophy is the most valuable yet won in Australian
pigeon-shooting.
Address: C. W. BUCKLAND,
16 Curral Road, Elsternwick, Melbourne
(Victorian representative) ; or Box 326, G.P.0., Sydney.
Renowned Physicians, and even the public are
so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S
That the afflicted need not hesitate to use it
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young, men. Grimault’s
Liquid Matico and Capsules don’t cause
stricture.
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
EKBxaaaaEi
inunfflirmn
(SlffiNiioittifcifi!
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 5C
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. ELLIS.
JMtHI
t
--THE-'
Ballet Girl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- her
theatrical and Domes-
tic life, and what she
does after the opera.
Post Free X/-.
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private an 1 Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest -
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
lt<>\ OKi, G.P.0., SYDYTCY.
MADAME S lA*t of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application*
DO YOU KNOW
That in America, where there are scorea
upon scores of high-grade wheels which
can hold their own in any part of the
world,
W\c\^c\e,«>
are recognised as leaders.
When you see one you’ll admit they are
“ The Standard of the World.”
We are adding to our list of agents.
GREVILLE TURNER, Ltd.,
City Cycle Exchange,
37 Market Street, SYDNEY.
Dumber racer?
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
CYCLE STTPPLIEES
To His Excellency Lord Hampden.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
—FOR THE—
World-renowned HUMBERS, PREMIERS, etc,
W. J. C. ELLIOTT, Ma
CHARLES WESTBROOK
116 Pitt Street, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Orif/inal Cush Fielder.
0 mmissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughou
the World.
STARTING PRICE. COMMISSIONS EXECUTED.
Telegraphic Code—“ Westbrook, Sydney.” Telephone,
No. 1542.
The BEST TUBE
for Cycles
BUItOP T9RE.
IT IS GUARANTEED
FOR
TWELVE MONTHS
tPHERE are black wheels and other wheels, tin wheels
and pot-metal wheels, but if you pay a little more
money you can get The Red Bird Wheels.
B
EST
ICYCLE
U I LT.
They are everlastingly durable and beautiful. Well! just
watch that crimson finish. The mark
of high degree only applied to the
Agents Wanted.
Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch-
-64 King Street, Sydney, HT.S.W.
Factories at Brantford, Toronto, Montreal, St. John.
Winnipeg, Canada.
Ascot: RaciQg: Ckib,
IsTEWMAEICET.
Monday Next, 10th October.
120-SOVEREIGNS IN STAKES-120
8000
SOVEREIGNS will be Won and Paid in
STAKES at ASCOT during- current year (’96).
Monday, 2nd November, 18^0
(Day Before Melbourne Cup).
500-SOVEREIGNS IN STAKES-500
ASCOT GOLD CUR of 25050 v. (One Event). For
horses 2 years old and upwards ; 4 furlongs. Second.
50soy. ; Third, 30sov. ; Fourth, 20sov.
DISTANCE HANDICAP TROT of lOOsov.; 2niiles Entries
close Monday, Oct. 19. JOSEPH WEBSTER, S-vretarv
AseM Racing Chib and
. ’ " Pit.ur >y Racing J„ib.
Maritime Chambers, IJ7 Svvanston-street, Melbourne.
Compare : Martin has won in his 11 months
63 firsts, 10 seconds, 8 thirds—value, £977 ; with retainers
and bonuses added—say £l4OO. Martin, examined the
other day by a prominent Sydney doctor, was pronounced
to be an abnormal man, who would eventually collapse
through heart disease.
* * * •
Martin is looking for long distance matches just
now; wants to race J. Carpenter, of Vic., 200 miles for
£2OO. But it is quite unlikely that any Australian will
take Martin on for a long-distance scratch race.
• * * *
Last Monday week it was a sight for the “ gods ”
to seg-Bilmartin coming out of N.S.W. Savings Bank care-
fully, examining his bank-book (he having just added a
hundred or so to his little lot). Other athletes, cyclists,
and especially some of our successful jockeys please note
and be present to see Bilmartin coming out again on the
Monday after the carnival meeting.
* * * *
The Goold Bicycle Co. writes us that Red Bird
Martin does not receive from them a weekly salary of £B.
* * * *
It is the policy of the Australasian and the
Leader to disagree in everything. They even disagree, in
their illustrations of the Sydney to Melb. cycle relay ride,
as to the manner in which Gov. Brassey was dressed when
he received the despatch at the termination of that grease-
ful personal advt., one paper representing him as wearing
a “hard-hitter ” hat and a sac-coat, and the other a “ bell-
topper ” and a frock-coat. As a matter of fact he wore a
feather behind his ear, and a blanket.
* * * *
George Burston, of Melb., probably the most-
travelled cyclist in the world to-day, has just returned to
Vic. from a European jaunt of 5000 miles odd, accom-
plished without a fall or mishap. Burston it was who
rode from Calcutta to Smyrna half-dozen years ago, and
since that date he has been consistently exploring foreign
lands per cycle at the rate of 10,000 miles a year.
♦ ♦ *
“ Jimmy ” Carpenter, winner of the Warrnam-
bool-to-Melb. Road Race, cut down his last year’s time by
2h. 12min., doing the 165 miles in Bh. 40mim,and winning
the race from scratch and 26 competitors. At Geelong,
40 miles from home, Carpenter was “ all out,” and, though
20min. behind G. Broadbent, managed to effect the really
splendid performance of catching the latter at Footscray,
three miles from the winning-post, and pedalling in smin.
ahead. During the progress of the race, Carpenter re-
duced the Australian 50 mile record by lOmin., and the
100 mile by 40min., though out of the latter he wasted a
quarter of an hour repairing a puncture. Middleton, the
plucky wobbler who carried off the 25 and 50 mile road
championships, broke his chain three miles after starting.
The wind was favorable, but the road none too good.
Con. Dwyer, the hero of the ordinary machines
before the advent of the Busst brothers, started from
limit in the road-race above-mentioned, and finished in the
train. How are the mighty fallen ?
* * * *
What has become of M'Donell, lately vanquished
by Martin? Very probably the so-called “Road King”
has had enough of Sydney. The N.S.W. Wheelmen’s
League gave him a two-hours’ gruelling for alleged queer
riding in his match with Martin. The League accepted
M'Donell's Yankeeish explanation : “ I wobbled across the
track so as to give Martin all the disadvantage of the
wind ; and I hit her up sudden and stopped her with a
jerk, because by that means I would tire Martin and his
big gear out.” Martin, now in Melb., tried to get a road-
match on with M'Donell, but when Martin’s man called
at M'Donell’s hotel, the Road King had left.
* * * *
A Melb. bicycle agency was burned to the
ground last week, and 150 machines destroyed. This
scorching must be put down.
* * * *
A royal row brews between Melb. Bicycle Club
and the League of Wheelmen, which practically means
the backing-down or extinction of one. The trouble
originated over a very simple matter, the color system.
The lacing men complained that the silk jacket enforced
by M. B.C. rules was uncomfortable and expensive, and, as
a result, the League decided upon action. The M.B.C.
then suggested to lease its system to the League, and, on
the latter's refusing, offered to hand over the system for a
sh'lhng a year. Chagrined at the prior demand of the
club, the hot-headed crowd of the League council would
have none of it, and carried its own svstem —necessarily
founded on that of the M.B.C. The latter now announces
that its color regulations will be enforced strictly and in
their entirety at the coming Austral meeting, and
threatens the League with law for infringing copyright
The M.B.C. is entitled to the credit of being the first to
stop the confusing of red, scarlet, magenta, claret, crim-
son, &c., which so often appear on the racing-card as differ-
ent Colors. Under its system there is red and only red, blue
and only blue, and so on, the manner in which the colors
paj be combined being also defined, so that mistake is
impossible.
* * * *
At Essex (Eng.) last month, a ped. beat P. W.
Brown, the mile champion cyclist, in a 100yds. sprint.
Time, 10 4-sths sec. Same meeting, in a mile handicap
between a cyclist, a runner and a walker, the latter, who
had 1150yds., won. Cyclist, scratch, was second : the
runner, who received 735yds. start, did not complete the
distance.
* * * *
Parsons English and American experiences
seem confined to the facts that he got “home” two
months late for business and that he could not get the
pacing necessary to do himself justice in his few races
He has four triplets coming out from France, and when
they arrive he will go for Bilmartin’s scalp. He gets a
consideration for using the Simpson chain. He talks
about, challenging Michael, the Welsh wonder, in the
future. Michael has a sextette, four quads, and four trip-
lets to pace him in a hard race.
* * * *
Parsons says that his English and American
trips have put him in the way of averaging £lO per week
above the screw he formerly received in Australia. He
also says that while in Australia, between Oct, ’95 and
April, ’96, he banked more money than Martin did. ’ His
American records—half-mile in 51 1-5, and mile in 1 51 2-5
—have brought him good retainers from the trade. ’
Parsons has grown a little ; is much harder and
sturdier than on his departure from Australia • he now
weighs 10st. 71b. stripped : he used to be nearly a stone
less. He has kept himself in buckle on the way out and
is confident of reaching A 1 form at the N.S.W. Wheel-
men’s approaching carnival.
Re Martin, Parsons says : “ Bill is the best all-
round cyclist in the world ; < all-round ’ means good for
a paced or unpaced race, for a lap-dash or 1000 miles.
Also, he is perhaps the most knowing rider the globe
over ; I certainly have met no man who gave me more
tips than did Martin.
“ For combining sprint with staying powers the
Frenchmen, as a class, head the list. This is all the more
remarkable because they don’t train with the laborious
conscientiousness so popular with the English and Ameri-
cans. The American racer won’t smoke ; and he would
shun wine like leprosy; buthe sucks up iced water just
as an Australian drinks tea.
Ihe American trainers are great believers in
the kneading* process; and the trainer’s word is law.
Many a top American rider obeys his trainer in the model
way in which a child is supposed to obey his father.
It is quite true that American cracks get over
$6,100 a season for riding for a manufacturer They cul-
tivate all sprinting in the States ; lap dashes, half-mile,
mde and two mile races ; they are wonderful sprinters,
the hist half-dozen of them. John S. Johnson comes to
Australia for certain, so far as I know now j if he strikes
form, he will show us what finishing means. Michael,
the Welsh wonder, promised me he too would come.”
* * * *
Much disgust is prevalent in Melb. at the return
of Parsons without competing in some first-class races at
( line or Murka. Considering that he was given a com-
-1 nient.ii'y meeting, a national subscription, &e., it is
thought 1 hat the least he could do would have been to try
and beat some of the English cracks.
* * * *
Parsons’ matches with Jay Eaton ended in
hollow victories for the swift and cunning American. The
first match (best two heats out of three), one mile, w r as
won straight out by Eaton in 2.14 3-sths. and 2.16 4-sths.
The second match, five miles, similar conditions, was won
by Eaton easily in 11.55 and 12.00. The American papers
excuse Parsons, on the ground that he is not Al. But
will Parsons ever be Al on the racing track? Up to now
he has given at least some indications of being a racer
who cannot race.
* * * *
Lewis’ recent letter from England to the Sydney
press about Megson, Payne and himself is a very weak-
backed story. “At Wood Green I ran second in my heat
in the half-mile handicap off 25yds. ; beaten by a foot; it
was hard luck. In the final of the five miles, I was fifth ;
a tablecloth would have covered us.” Now listen to this :
“ We would like to stay here or go to America till next
season, but seeing Bill Martin scooping the pools so easily
we are anxious to have another race with him.” Fancy
the dauntless three returning 12,000 miles, although they
are happy where they are, simply because thev are
anxious to race Martin. Before they left, Martin offered
to race all three over 25 miles, a fresh man at every
8)4 miles, for any sum they liked to put up. He also
offered to race any one of them any distance.
* * * *
Unlucky in politics, ex-Premier Rosebery strikes
the best of luck in racing. He has won two Derbys, and
now possesses the two best 2yr-olds in England. Last
week he secured the Imperial Produce Stakes of £3OOO
with Chelandry (half-sister to Derby winner Ladas), who
a short time previous won Nat. Breeders’ Stakes of £4357.
Velasquez (half-brother to Derby winner Sir Visto) won
Prince of Wales’ Stakes at Goodwood worth £2400, and is
now first favorite for next year’s English Derby.
* * * *
Kerr, if his business will allow it, should accept
the Johannesburg challenge, and also go to England.
Kerr’s ride last Saturday was a fine performance for any
cyclist, and supports Parsons’ assertion that Kerr would
do well against the English amateurs.
* * * *
The Fitzsimmons-Corbett preliminaries have
reached the stage of another “agreement.” The men
met, drank wine, shook hands, “ agreed ” to box for the
largest purse yet offered and a side stake of $lO,OOO.
“ Although a very small table separated the pugilists, no
blows were struck, and nothing more than an occasional
hard look was passed.” The battle of the century is sup-
posed to take place not sooner than Jan., ’97, and not
later than March.
* * * *
A Vic. country newspaper which received the
agency-telegram, “Baron V. Mueller dead,” gave the fol-
lowing ingenious interpretation to its startled readers the
following day
“FATAL PRIZE FIGHT.
“ MUELLER KILLED.
“ A prize-fight took place in Melb. last night between
the well-known boxers Baron and Mueller. Boch men
were heavily hacked hv their respective supporters, and
the fight was of a most desperate character. In the last
round Baron got a heavy uppercut on Mueller’s jaw, and
the latter fell unconscious. After lingering some hours,
the unfortunate young fellow died without recovering his
senses.”
The rival rag in the next township would have
waxed extremely sarcastic only for the fact that it itself
ascribed another meaning to the word “ dead,” and said
that the cycling-match between Baron and Mueller had
proved to he a fake, and the League was taking action to
disqualify both competitors.


A PRISONER’S ESCAPE.
Between the months of May and August last
year a party of convicts were hard at work against
the side of Table Mountain, Cape Colony. The
overseer, who with keen eye was watching the
operations, showed signs of fatigue consequent on
his exertions during so many months of toil in all
sorts of weather. For many a month his wife had,
with an anxious heart, watched her husband’s
health, which she knew was declining. His work,
from six in the morning to three in the afternoon,
began to tell on his constitution in a more marked
degree from day to day. At last he began to spit
blood. The distressing anxiety of his poor wife
now became most painful to observe. What she
had long ago dreaded now seemed certain, and
with intense sorrow she had now to yield to the
awful expectation that her husband’s ailments
would culminate in death ! The doctor had treated
him for a long time, and had showed him
every attention and kindness, but in spite
of all attention to instructions given Mr. Ru-
dolph’s health continued to decline. At last
an event took place which sealed his fate
in the opinion of his friends. He was out attend-
ing to his work one day, when he burst a blood-
vessel and brought up an enormous quantity of
blood. He was placed in a cab and sent home,
where his wife received him in.a terrible condition.
He was bleeding, pale, and shattered ! For days
his life was despaired of, and he was often uncon-
scious. After lingering in (his critical o ruiition
for a long time, during win h he had inllammation
of the lungs and was utv! i medical treatment, he
was ordered to go into the country, which he did.
He spent months in the country. His medical
adviser did all in his power to tinrg back strength
to his patient, but no skill or sing seemed to
make much difference. Mr. Carries John Ru-
dolph (for that is the name of the patient in
question) was called on at his residence, No. 11
Drury-street, by a newspaper representative, to
whom he gave the above information and pro-
ceeded with his story thus:—“I returned from
the country in an enervated state, having given
up all hope of ever being able to do my work again.
The futiire was dark. My poor wife’s anxiety was
telling on her. Misery reigned in our home. At
last she heard of the wonderful cures effected by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. She
had tried so many medicines that she at first
hardly expected even this remedy to have any
beneficial effect. But she determined to try. She
bought a box of the Pills, and I used them. I felt
my appetite slowly returning. I used a second
box, which increased my strength wonderfully. I
have now used the fourth box. My legs are
strong; as you see for yourself, I can go about and
do work. My appetite is good. That awful feel-
ing of enervation and weariness has left me, and
the dreadful and trying anxiety of my poor wife
has made room for hope and happiness. I have
persevered in the use of Doctor Williams’ Pink
Pills, and can now declare to the effectual cure
wrought by them, having changed me from an in-
valid to the man you see now—able to do his work
and enjoying health. I have spent a lot of money
in medicines and medical attendance, not caring
what I spent so long as I might reasonably expect
improvement in my miserable condition, and here
I have used only four boxes of the Pills and they
have done what nothing else’ seemed able to do.
Taught by personal experience, I now recommend
this wonderful medicine to all sufferers from weak-
ness, poverty of blood, and all the attendant ail-
ments. ” The reporter then withdrew, after thank-
ing Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph for the information
gi ven.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a scientific prepara-
tion discovered by an eminent physician, after
years of careful study and experiment, and used by
him a number of years in both hospital and private
practice. They are a specific for such diseases as
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, and a genuine
Bloodbuilder and Nerve Tonic. Used after In-
fluenza, they immediately build up the system.
Females' troubles of all descriptions are positively
cured by them in a very short time, and pale and
sallow .complexions soon attain a glow of health
by their use.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are obtainable from all
leading chemists, or from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Coy., Queen’s Place, Sydney, who will
forward (post paid) on receipt of stamps or post
order, 1 box for 2s. 9d., or 1,- dozen for 14s. 9d.*
The B. O. Johnston
Lubricator
and (Patent).
God sends good food—the devil bad cooks.
/"OVERCOME the difficulty by using the Baster. You
will save money. Your Joints, etc., will not shrivel
up. The boiling fat seals the juices in the meat, and
your body is nourished accordingly.
All the pieces of fat, etc., are reduced to a rich golden
dripping, and it is superior on bread to most of the butter
sold.
A Perfect Egg and Bacon Cooker.
Place your eggs in deep or lower dish, the slices of bacon
in top or shallow dish, put the baster and contents in
BAKING DISH to catch the grease, and the oven will do
the rest for you. Result will speak for itself.
At all Ironmongers.
BASTER FACTORY,
9 Addison Road, Marrickville.
(f
if^aaa
ft Pleasure t£H?S£
m£iF&
{(EtOPPH
nm rrnnrn hollo ground*
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades.
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garrett
& Co., London, W.
rn HE WELL-KNOWN and respected Dr. EMILY RYDER
strongly advises Suffering Women to use
- - “ X-.AI-y-,” - -
a Simple Remedy for Distressing Complaints. 26 Im-
perial Arcade, Sydney. Call or write. Pamphlets free.
PRELIMINARY.
In response to many requests, the
Management of the
TRCB6LLI CONCCRTS
Has decided to give
2111 CONCERTS €2
IN THE
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Full particulars of date, etc., in Saturday’s press.
Mdlle. Trebelli sails for America in the Mariposa.
Business Announcements
/GREENFIELD\ f) if LATEST \
Uarra¥lough# \pince-nez i
Greenfield $ jjarraclough,
SPECTACLE MAKERS,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(A. J.S. Bank Buildings, near King-street).
Sir SAMUEL GRIFFITH, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice,
Queensland, writes :—“ I have much pleasure in saying
that you are entirely at liberty to make use of my name
in certifying to your being competent Ophthalmic Opti-
cians, in whom the public may place confidence.”
SIGHT EXAMINED FREE OF CHARGE.
The Pickering Governor.
SOLE .fiLGEKTTS :
H. P. GREGORY
& COMPANY,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
SST Write for Prices and particulars.
Is the most perfect EmolHpnt Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAU'I IFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Cool and Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, fic.
And preserves the THE SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually t"an anv other preparation.
It is delightfully Coor.iNO and Refreshing if arpiied to
the Face or Hands after beii.r out in the Sun, Tennis-
playing. Yachting, &c. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, Is. & 2s. 6d. Sole Makers:
M. BEETHAM & SON.Chemists, Cheltenh am, England J
FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., Melbourne,
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
I THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY. fl
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGIITS !
1 MRS. PON DERBURY'S PAST, i
SATURDAY, Oeiober 17, GRAND DOUBLE BILL !
‘A PAIR OP SPECTACLES,’ ‘GENTLE GERTRUDE.’
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson's.
¥ C B U M T H E A T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Williamson &Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“R fiILDCD FOOL.”
Saturday, Oct. 17, will lie presented for the first time on
any stage, “AN AMERICAN CITIZEN,” in four acts.
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co’s and A. Hordern & Sons’,
Haymarket. Prices as Usual. Day Tickets at Adams'.
X YCEUM THEATRE,
Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
APPLICATIONS will be received by the undersigned
up to and inclusive of the 13th NOVEMBER, 1896, from
persons willing to LEASE the above Theatre from the
26th DECEMBER next % The Theatre has seating accom-
modation for at least 1600, is lighted throughout by
electricity, and has all modern improvements.
Full particulars may be had on application. The Trustees
of the late George Hill, Box 489, G.P.0., Sydney.
HER MAJESTY’S. SYDNEY.
Lessee and Munager .. Mr. William Cosgrove.
Representative .. Mr. J. F. Francis.
“STILL WE PURSUE OUR TRIUMPHAL CAREER.”
Every Evening ! Every Evening !
The Highly Sensational, Emotional, Interesting Drama,
“ FOILCP.”
Prices of Admission—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is, and GALLERY,
SIXPENCE. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
ERNEST BLACRSTONE, Acting Manager.
JHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
CONTINUED SUCCESS! op CONTINUED SUCCESS 1
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Anglo-African Spectacular Novelty,
sor (England, I sor (England !
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s
Day Tickets at Power’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Hr, Harry JticJeards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 Higii-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, ,£i Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rpiiE opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO.
|2P" Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
J>RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
The Military, Spectacular, Musical Satire,
“A MILK WHIT€ FLA 6.”
Interpreted by a remarkably powerful cast.
Bex Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Theatre royal, Melbourne-
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Acting Manager .. Mr. M. Marcus.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING!
Continued Phenomenal Success
Of the Great Military Drama,
“ TOMMY -A.-X“IS:X3XrS.”
IS” PRICES AS USUAL.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
A GRAND PRODUCTION exceeding in Realism any
Australian drama yet produced in the colonies.
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS'! ALFRED
ROBBERY UNDER A RMS V DAMPIER
ROBBERY UNDER ARMSj in Robbery under Arms
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 3s ; Stalls and Family Circle
2s; Pit, Is; Gallery, 6d. GEO. BULLER, Manager.
THE SOILED DOVE, being the History of a
Young Lady who ran away from her parents and
ultimately “ went to the dogs.” Also, “ Skittles,” her
Adventures; Life and Love in Paris, &c., &c. Each post
free, Is. 6d. The three for 4s. Anglo- Aus. Publishing
Co., 331 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Absolutely tl>e Best
fl?di£m?-Siz?d PIANO Mad^
NONOIW
axjq. si
MOST RELIABLE.
SPLENDID TONE &
TOUCH.
GUARANTEED FOR
TEN YEARS.
PIAKTO
Sole agents:
NICHOLSON & CO., George Street, Sydney.
The Only White Jewellery Store in Australasia.
m
90 King Street, Sydney.
We do not imitate. We are original and up to date. The past has gone. We cater for the pre-
sent and future. It is our intention to give a weekly price-list of a few lines. We offer all goods at
LONDON PRICES, which are unapproached by any other house in Australasia: —
English Hall-marked—CUßß CHATN and PADLOCK BRACELETS—EngIish Hall-marked.
9ct. Gold, full sizes, from 22/6, rising 2/6 a Bracelet to 70/-; Children’s Sizes, 20/- to 25/- each
15ct. „ ~ . 47/6, „ „ 100/-; „ 30/- to 40/- each!
Solid Gold Curb Chain Bracelet, with Watch in centre, 100/- and 105/-. Latest Novelty.
Silver Hall-marked Chain BRACELET, Ladies’ Size, 7/-, 8/-, 10/-, 12/6 each. All Ladies’ Gold
Chain Bracelets are fitted in a beautiful velvet or leather case, and are all specially secured with safety
chains free of charge. Goods sent post free to any part of Australasia on receipt of remittance
FISHER & CO’S
Kola |)ut Tonic,
FOB
tfye & Brail?
AND
'Restoriog Vigor.
v>
IN THE MORNING,
before going to
Fislier & Co’s
FOB
Kola Nut Tonic.
)o(
This Tonic acts with most remarkable rapidity in re-
storing a WEAKENED STOMACH, IMPAIRED'DIGES-
TION, TORPID LIVER. NERVOUS DEBILITY, and in
REVIVING the BRAIN from the effects of OVERWORK
and FATIGUE.
It stimulates and strengthens the entire MUSCULAR
SYSTEM, acting like MAGIC, and rouses into VIGOR and
HEALTH the whole PHYSICAL ENERGY of the HUMAN
ECONOMY.
It has a most marvellous effect in CHECKING THE
CRAVING FOR DRINK, in many cases having restored
DRUNKARDS to their NORMAL CONDITION OF LIFE.
To enable one to enjoy a MEAL, a dose taken an hour
or so before immensely SHARPENS THE APPETITE.
With Soda Water before breakfast it is the Most Beneficial
Drink in the World.
2s. 6d. PER BOTTLE.
By Post Bd. extra, or 6d. per Glass.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NOW SOLD FOR ONE-HALF THE PRICE
PREVIOUSLY CHARGED.
North Sydney, June 25, 1896.
Messrs. Fisher and Co.
Gentlemen, —I cannot speak too highly of your excellent
preparation of KOLA NUT. As a tonic, I found it far
superior to anything of the kind I ever used, and have
strongly recommended it to several friends, all of whom
(after taking it) are enthusiastic in their praise of it. Kola
Nut Tonic has a most beneficial effect after an attack of
INFLUENZA ; on some of my acquaintances it has pro-
duced wonderful effects, particularly in strengthening the
muscles of chest and limbs. Many of my cycling friends
swear hv it. I notice its use has been adopted by the
Alpine Club as a STIMULANT and NUTRIENT in moun-
tain-climbing expeditions, &e., as it generally increases
the power of the LUNGS and keeps off muscular fatigue,
and will prove invaluable to athletes. I feel confident
Kola Nut Tonic will have a large consumption, for those
who once try it will always keep it in store.—Yours faith-
fully,
CHARLES WISEHEART,
Willoughby.
NO CYCLIST SHOULD BE WITHOUT THIS REMARK-
ABLE INVIGORATOR, ESPECIALLY LADIES.
EVERY SINGER, AUCTIONEER, and PUBLIC
SPEAKER should take KOLA NUT TONIC.
A recent issue of the Planters’ Monthly contains a
description of this remarkable nut and its uses :
“ Kola has the property of staying hunger, whilst sup-
porting the struggle for existence.
“ If a supply of nuts had been included in Mr. Stanley’s
outfit his men would not have suffered so terribly for want
of animal food.
“ As might be expected, the value of Kola increases as
it makes its way into the interior of Africa, and some of
the tribes farthest removed from the sea pay for the dry
powder-an equal weight of gold-dust.
“In a despatch from Mr. George Alexander Stevens,
Her Majesty’s Consul at Bahai, he calls attention to the
great powers of endurance in lifting heavy loads and
transporting them to long distances in the tropical
climate, attributed to the free use of Kola Bean. An old
African, after biting a piece of the magic Bean, lifted 179
English pounds weight on to his head and carried the
same for a distance of four miles.
“Still another merit is named, however, which will
interest the temperance party. The negros who chew
Kola Nut have no desire to drink rum, and hence save
money and retain their strength.”
A woman —whose name under the circumstances cannot
be given—came into our shop the other day, with tears of
gratitude in her eyes, and said, “ My husband used to
come home on Saturday's DRUNK, but he has been taking
Kola Nut Tonic for four weeks, and now comes home
quite SOBER and places the whole of his wages in my
hands. God bless you ! ”
UNEQUALLED.
July 28, 1896.
From F. J. WILLIAMS,
Police Station,
Reefton (via Temora).
Sirs, —Please post me an amount of Kola Nut in the
form prepared for taking.
F. J. WILLIAMS.
August 9, 1896.
Sirs,—Please post me another bottle of your “ Kola
Nut Tonic.” I believe it to be without an equal,—
Yours, &c.
F. J. WILLIAMS.
FISHER & CO.,
(WHOLESALE and RETAIL)
CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS.
THE BUSY MANUFACTURING FIRM.
Our Drugs are Pure and Fresh. Always Manufacturing
and Importing, no Old Stock remains on hand.
Essentially Homoeopathic, but also skilful Allopathists.
Both Homoeopathic and Allopathic Prescriptions accu-
rately dispensed.
Our Dispensers rank among the Best Read and Cleverest
Chemists in Australia. Registered and Qualified.
LOWEST PRICES IN SYDNEY.
' -A %
33*7 George-st., Sydney
(Nearly opposite General Post Office).
COUNTRY ORDERS FAITHFULLY ATTENDED TO.
Send order direct, or through ELLIOTT BROS., the
Australian Drug Company, or any other Wholesale House
To be had at all Chemists.
Agents for Queensland : ELLIOTT BROS., Brisbane.


Health and Strength
RESTORED
BY THE USE OF
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. Cumming, of Yarraville,
Victoria, Australia, Says:
if
“About a year ago, I had a severe
attack of Influenza, which left me
very weak, without energy, appe-
tite, or interest in life. Obtaining
little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recom-
mended to me, I finally tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and from that time,
began to gain health and strength,
I continued the treatment until
fully recovered, and now have very
great pleasure in telling my friends
of the merits of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use. I
consider it the best blood-purifier
known.”
AYER’3
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS
for Constipation
and Biliousness.
Sugar-Coated, Mild but Effective
■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro* Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., Ltd.; Australian Drug C>.
John Connell &Co., Ltd.
BE A TJTIF UL EL O WEBS
—AT—
SEARL’S,
SYDNEY’S FLORISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS w ill not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.-Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal. -E. LENTHALL
OLDEIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria.’’
‘ ‘ Ghostly comforter ! ” By the way, a com-
forter is something to be put round the neck.
Norman Malcolm, sec. Westralian Agri-
cultural Dept., who seems to be the leading spirit
in the good work of prosecuting sellers of tuber-
culous and other diseased cattle, was until recently
agricultural editor of S.A. Advertiser.
In part excuse for Chief Justice Madden’s
record of 18 judgments upset on appeal it is only
fair to say that Victoria’s dandy “Chief’’gives
many straightforward decisions in knotty cases
which his less exalted colleagues would probably
refer to the Full Court. Judge Williams, for
instance, is very apt to avoid the risk of an upset
by shunting his responsibility upon the F.C.
Madden sits in the place where one is expected to
be almost infallible, and the excessive number of
his failures is the penalty of the greatness that J. B.
Patterson appointed him to. In a sense this is
hard upon him, for nobody ever thought of the
garrulous Irish gentleman as a real boss Judge.
He was practically created permanent Acting-
Governor on account of his gaudy “frill” and
waxed moustache. The only legitimate way of
working him into a cocked hat was to give him the
Chief Justice’s wig to play with, hence the melan-
choly humor of the legal situation in Victoria as it
affects litigants.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London. *
Dear Bulletin, —Among the hooraying
“ Christian Endeavorers ’’ who garlanded a loco-
motive and came to spread self-righteousness in
Sydney, was Rev. Silas Mead, a good old sort of
devil-dodger from Adelaide (S.A.), “who wouldn’t
hurt a fly ’’ (as Brunton Stephens says, for “ why
should he hurt a fly?”). I never see that man’s
name but I feel that he owes me something for
personal damages— twice. First time : He butted
at me in a newspaper controversy upon a quasi-
religious question, and, after I had replied, he re-
fused to hold further argument with an opponent
who could act in the dastardly way that I had
done, &c., &c. Editor Finlayson, to my sorrow,
backed him up (i.e., to me, verbally). What had I
done ? I had used up a whole battery of metaphor
about Silas Mead being not only a wet blanket but
a hip-bath, a plunge and a douche on the very
desirable object under discussion. “ Well ? ” says
I, still puzzled. “ Well!” says Finlayson, “he’s
a Baptist clergyman ! ” Great Scott! How was I
to have known that ? Case No. 2: In another
quasi-religious article, in which I had occasion to
mention Mr. Mead’s name (and I had become
cautious about treating this 'particular Baptist
with a special respect, almost amounting to rever-
ence), an evil-minded compo. introduced an utterly
gratuitous “e ” into it, and the Adelaide world
read, above my pen-name, “the Sileas Mead ” !
and pronounced the “i ” short ! No use my try-
ing to make anyone, then, believe that I hadn’t
fathered it! So I didn’t try, but bore the blame and
my burden of sorrow in secret. There was a Sunday-
school teacher of Mr. Mead’s church—also a press-
man, really /—who was to give some Bible-class, or
church-meeting, or something-or-other of the small
organisms that such institutions sp>awn, a lecture
on the poetess Eliza Cook. That Sunday-school
pressman asked another (not me) if he’d draw out,
or suggest, a good, short, attractive advt. about
the lecture. How the other pressman managed it
I don’t know, but I’m told that the advt. actually
went in the very proper Register, in the space
allotted to religious lectures, under the big-typed
heading —“ A Night with Eliza Cook.” When we
remember these things, do we think that we can
ever give up the drink ? —Yours, in retrospection,
The Dipsomaniac.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
The most beautifying, soothing, healing, and refreshing-
milk for the skin ever produced ; it removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness, and Roughness, soothes ami
heals all irritation, and produces soft, fair, delicate skin,
and a beautifully pure and healthy complexion. War-
ranted harmless.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL
Nourishes, Preserves, and Beautifies the Hair.
ROWLANDS’ EUKOMIA,
A Pure Toilet Powder in three tints—White, Rose, and
Cream.
Ask Chemists and Stores for Rowlands’ articles, of
20 HattonGarden, London, and avoid cheap poisonous
imitations.
Spring
NOW is the TIME to DO UP
Your HOUSES.
is
Send for Samples and Quotations
„ Coming.
H. H. GROTH * CO.,
Oil, Color and Glass Merchants,
PAPERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE,
Winsor & Newton’s Artists’ Material Depot,
PICTURES & PICTURE MOULDINGS,
529 George Street (Brickfield Hill),
SYDMTBY.
Positively the Best Dressing
»’sgßii
%
m
H
FOR
PREERVING Sc BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HAKLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy Tor Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
I/-, 2 6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C.
1 101
3 72
124
120 E
126
N
125
127
078
234
56
57
<3
%
B 2
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest & Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OHR TRADE-
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A TJSTJEtALIAN
NEEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/6
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Saryood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD FROM
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-streetand 27 Swan-
ston-street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q.
WESTRALIA—Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
r
»r Story* Clark
cm
Send for prut i.isr.
Sole Agent for
BESSON *C°_ S
CELEBRATED -------
"PROTOTYPE MASS
'.f: MB mill f 4 1M
as usesl by me
s i ,1 m t
wmw
m
*audli
* »
GrOUTIOTE.
A certain cure for CHRONIC GOUT, RHEUMA-
TIC GOUT, or RHEUMATISM. Before purchas-
ing the Australasian rights for this marvellous remedy, I
tested it thoroughly in several acute cases. RELIEF
was given in ONE HOUR ; every case was cured. (Reference is kindly permitted to Mr. .Alex. J. Smith,
an employe of the Vie. railway locomotive shops, who was cured of Rheumatic Gout by GOUTINE
after five years of suffering, and after the failure of leading Melb. physicians to effect cure. In Bottles
at 55., 7s. 6d., and 12s. Gd—posted, 6d. extra, from holder of AUSTRALASIAN rights,
Oscar Lawson, Chemist, 136 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
9
m
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros,, Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
IHVAUDS
AND
THE AGED.


*y 1
m
Ig '•'. ■■ . . I .:.I
fmw,
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HERBAL
ALF ALINE REMEDIES
(Registered)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and Nerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES,
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION TO
BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
THE PUBLIC FOR TEN YEARS.
Thousands of Unsolicited Testimonials.
List of the Alfaliue Remedies.
Vitality Restored
ALFAIINE
VITALITY FILLS
Ace the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
A flections. They have been before the Austra-
lian public for many years, and stood a test which
may well be envied by all other manufacturers of
similar remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bility, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— l/- 3/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills —Special Double course,
43 6 ; ordinary course, 23,6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
and 3/-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -Boxes, 23/6,
12 -, 6/-, and Si-..
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43 6, .23 6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6/-'
Alfaline Fat-rec.using Powder-Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Injection Powder— Cures the Whites.
Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— Boxes, 6/- and
3/-.
Alfaline Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, 1/- and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 1 6
Alfaline Bath Tablets -Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lates the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/-; posted, 1/6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c„ &c.
Blood Purified.
ALF ALINE
LOCK CUKE FILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonic-
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It is not the usual Mercury remedy,
but a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALFALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint be im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rassmussen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices. —With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/-
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
Important. ** address your letters to
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office: 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus —PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
WARNING.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should
always obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only he obtained from his own Offices and Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlet
sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or to his Branches.
Selected Testimonials.
Nerves Cured
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July.lB, 1892.
Dear Sir—l have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, T consider you are deserving of success,
wmch I do most heartily wish you. —Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmussen.— Dear Sir,—l think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies. _
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill ; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wish Fulfilled.
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly,
N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured,
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen,
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effeot on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year of 1871 I was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills; since then I have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
Witness : Edward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness: John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh- street,
Sydney.
A. "ValualDle Free Book.
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuable
information, and many useful hints to sufferers from Nervous’ Weakness and Lost Vitality, as well as
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will be
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of testi-
monials, as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office
547 George St., Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne : ISO Bo nr he Street Brisbane : 160 Queen Street
Adelaide: ISA Bundle Street N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay , Wellington
West Australia: Corner Hay and William, Streets, Perth .
Also at COOIiGARDIE Next to Coolgfardie Hotel, Bailey Street.
And at CHARTERS TOWERS, Royal Arcade, Mosmans Street.
A Brancli -will also tae op»exaecl at Klalgoorlie, W.A., on Ist November.


A Western Yic. butter-factory paid by test
results. A supplier skimmed his milk for a week,
and received a percentage of nearly 5; previous
test, 4'9. No wonder everyone isn’t satisfied with
testing-machines. “Solemn fact,” says a Bulle-
tin correrpondent.
The Yic. Agricultural Department recom-
mended farmers and graziers to sow a new fodder-
grass called lathyrus sylvestris. Baron Von Mueller
now assures all whom it may concern that said
grass is poisonous and injurious to cattle not
reared on it.
New business combination has been intro-
duced by a N.Q. publican, who hires a Javanese
tailor at a few shillings a week —soliciting orders
over the bar and making a good thing out of it.
But how long before the tailor owns the pub. and
runs a white snip ?
“ While the Billy Boils,” by Henry Law-
son, with eight plates by F. P. Mahony, is already
in its third thousand, and may be had from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney. Post free 5/6. #
S : “I have seen it mentioned in The
Bulletin that the hardened smoker who loses his
eyesight presently ceases to find pleasure in his
pipe, and in due course abandons his favorite vice.
The supposition is that the real pleasure of smok-
ing is in seeing the smoke. But why are smokers
so particular about brands ? A few days back I
made the acquaintance of a blind man (blinded
years ago in a Ballarat mine). He is a persistent
smoker, and always blows the smoke upon his
hand—practically feels himself smoking. Asked
the reason of this, he declared that he found no
satisfaction in his pipe if he simply blew the
smoke into the air. ‘ Might as well suck at a cold
clay,’ he said.”
To Cure Sore Throats
WOUNDS, BURNS, SORES, and all DISCHARGES, and for purifying drinking
water, use CONDY’S FLUID.
Sold by all Chemists. Book of directions on every bottle. Condy & Mitcliell, of
London, England, are the sole makers. Insist on buying “CON il'Y'S FIjU ID."
Use “Condy’s Fluid.
Al) ARtyy of Operators Us€ the
Remington.
One Quarter of a Mi llion
(think op it) et- 250,000 in Daily Use.
“ REMINGTON ” OPERATORS ARE NEVER OUT OP EMPLOYMENT.
%
imgt°n
Typewriter.
THE NEW MODEL REMINGTON POSSESSES-
Greatest Manifolding Power;
Lightest Touch —no heavy Iron Key Levers ;
Single Keyboard, only One Set of Keys for Operator to
learn ;
Lightest Running Carriage;
New Speed Escapement ;
New Patent Ribbon Gear ;
Permanent Alignment, without unnecessary mechanism ;
Automatic Release, Automatic Paper Guide, Ribbon Feed,
Margin Stops, etc., etc.
(Seventy Remington typewriters
Purchased from us and in use by the N.S.W. GOVERN-
MENT RAILWAYS. Adopted as the STANDARD
Writing Machine throughout the world.
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet of the New Model.
STOTT & NOARE,
(Established 1885)
SOLE IMPORTERS FOR ALL AUSTRALIA,
49 Castlereagh-st., Sydney; 426 Collins-st., Melb.
Cheapest House
in
Australia.
European Prices.
Easy Terms
from ,£1 monthly.
Send
for Testimonials.
HapsTau-rg, Hadyn All MAKERS.
PIANOS.
BEALE & CO. Ltd., Sydney.
New Iron Framed
from
■£2s each.
Special Prices for
Export.
Drop us a line of
inquiry
from anywhere.
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd
INCORPORATED 1870.
Directors:
Hon. G. THORNTON, M.L.C.
(Chairman.)
Dk. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., J.P.
Hon. E. B. STJTTOR.
dfg
Registered under the Companies
Act, IS9O.
CHIEF OFFICE IN NEW SOUTH
WALES :
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES.
STRICTLY MUTUAL. ALL PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURRENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditions Liberal. Security UndLoubted.
,T. M. M‘CRAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
Atcherley & Dawson.
Choice
A J J VTD CT 1 DD T7 P and SPECIAL SILVER MEDAL at the Metro-
JLWgLTCIBCI politan Show, 1895. These Teas also gained the same
distinction in Queensland. These Unrivalled Teas are supplied to Consumers Direct at Lowest Rates
Samples Gratis. DELIVERED FREE at ANY TOWN IN THE COLONY
All Grades and Varieties of Tea kept in Stock.
257 GEORGE STREETSYDNEY—also at MELBOURNE & BRISBANE.
gfifl
mm
m
mim
mm
BUY
SIREN.
A perfect SOAP for the Household .
Save
yoCir 1
Wrappers J
for Cold St Silver Watches,
Jewellery & PictGres.
sd
7
THE ONLY REAL
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
! W
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HONMEUR.
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Borsdorff & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
20 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
AND AT
jAdelaide & SColbart
Trade Mark.
E T
£
&
P.D. (I
m
25
3?
C>
%
NATURES AUSTRALIAN Great Medical Discovery.
Good News for the Depressed. N€RV€ “SOLATIUM”
BELIEF FOR THE NEURALGIC. STAMINA FOR THE WEAK.
RESTORATION FOR THE DECLINING. HEALTH FOR THE DISEASED.
All to be obtained by using
“BioplaStine,”
Blood Purifier
—AND—
Nerve Feeder.
Prepared from an Australian shrub.
Sold by all Chemists, or of Agent.
Vegetable Iron,
Bottles, 2s. 6d. and 4s.
EPWIN HOLLAND, Nair&SkiQ Specialist,
(OPPOSITE ATHENAEUM)
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
[TESTIMONIAL.] „ .
Dear Sir, . Spring Vale.
I have much pleasure in testifying to the real merits of your “ Bioplastine.” After using all other remedies for a
number of years I unhesitatingly give this the preference. My neuralgia has departed and my nerves made strong.
I have induced several persons to give your tonic a trial, with very gratifying results. One lady, a sufferer from
indigestion, felt quite a new creature after taking one bottle of “ Bioplastine.”
(Signed) E. E. SMABTT, Medical Nurse.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
'te-
rn,
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges,
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manages.
Also Representative for the “THILTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Armenian Elixir of ||itality
The Most Powerful and Strength-restoring
TONIC known. Builds up the Constitution.
’ . . ONLY RELIABLE CURE . .
__ _ _ _ for Exhausted Nature, Debility, Spinal
Weakness, Brain Fag, and all complaints caused through a drain on the system. Restores to Vigor the Vital Power,
wonderfully Strengthens the Weakened Organs of the Body. One tablespoonful equal to TWO DOZEN OYSTERS.
The Debility resulting from Influenza and Fever cured in a few days. Gives new r Life and Hope to the Despondent.
In Cases, 205., 11s., and 65., forwarded to any
address on receipt of £1 note, P.O. order, or postal
note. 6s. cases require Is. extra for carriage.
J + MTARLAM, Chemist, &c.
372 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE (Near Latrobe Street).
RELIEF
from
COUGH
■hayma n s^M
alsam^forehomd
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Cough.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & Co., London. Price i». 1 Jd. and 2i- M.


Business Announcement.
The Celebrated
POKER MACHINE
A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
CIGARS FRE
'DROP S? IN THESLOTWpBEgS
linn
PH
™1
HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 639 George St.,
SYDNEY, Agents for Australia.
3E*vice - £5.
HAIRDRESSERS AND WIGMAKI ItS.
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 «Ss 682 George Street, Sydney.
j)o |)ot Hesitate!
BUT Call and See,
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
PURIFIED -
- HEALTHY
BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, inBolb Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Lawler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. 1, 3,6, 6,8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
57
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ o. ZEUIDIEaiIDGKE: & GO-,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Medical*
TRY
THE
NEW
2/9
SIZE
'Warners'
SAFE
E
U R
KIDNEY ANDLIVER
SAFE
PRICE i'OREOTTIt
H'H ■ N fz R it CO
■ Melbourne aub '
’w.vVu J~ U -
TRY
THE
NEW
2/9
SIZE
HALF ™e PRICE
HALF ™e SIZE
FULL VALUE
FULL Strength
Owing to the popularity and success
which has attended the introduction of a
3/9 size bottle of Warner’s “Safe” Cure
>n Great Britain and on the Continent,
the manufacturers, H. H. Warner & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne, have decided to introduce
this 2/9 size bottle in Australasia. If your
medicine vendor does not stock the small
size, kindly ask him to order it for you
from his wholesale dealer; if not obtain-
able locally, a trial bottle will be sent,
carriage paid, on receipt of Post Office
Order, by the manufacturers,
H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
A favourite food of the N.Q. blacks is the
little green ant. This insect builds its nest of
green leaves in the fork or branch of some tree
and lives mostly on fruit and honey. The red
meat ant is also regarded as a prime morsel by the
average aboriginal, who will knock the top off an
ant’s nest and then “ scoff ” a fistful of ants, dirt,
and ant-eggs with the greatest gusto.
Twenty-three years ago Ceylon exported
just 231 b. of tea, and now the export has reached
102 million lb. in the year. As tea has increased
coffee has decreased. Wherefore other countries,
Queensland among the number, are entering the
arena, of coffee competition— with what success
remains to be proven.
Dear Bulletin, — Re Barcoo rot being
caused by dust from trees. This disease extends
all over Western Leperland, where you can travel
for days and never see a tree, barring an odd
coolabah in the water-courses. Barcoo rot only
shows on arms or hands exposed to the weather.
The slightest scratch will turn into a large festering
sore, taking weeks to heal. Sometimes blood-
blisters appear on the backs of the hands, break,
and turn into large 'sores. The disease never
appears on the face, or other parts of the body,
and if the sores on the hands or arms are kept
tightly covered with oiled rag they soon disappear.
Some think the want of vegetables the cause ; but
people with plenty of vegetables get it just the
same. Also, red-headed folk suffer most. I think
the cause is poison in the air—from the swarms of
flies, perhaps.—G.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
Dear Bulletin, — I have to apologise to
“ V.” if I said that no whisky is made from malt.
I meant that no whisky worth mentioning is made
from it. I know little about small distilleries and
probably I am hopelessly ignorant. So thought
Mr. Gladstone of Huxley in the swine contro-
versy. But Huxley out-savvied the G.O.M. and
conducted his argument like a gentleman, which
William Ewart did not. Again, is rye an “inferior
material ” ? What is Bourbon whisky ? Inferior ?
Ask America. Whatever the Albury puffer may
say, in the most paying distillery in Scotland the
white spirit is now called foreshot, or was a few
years ago. Allow me to compare two authorities
m the same page (adjacent columns) of your issue
of sth inst. British Liquor Commission—“ The
fusel oil is not an impurity—and gives the charac-
teristic flavor, and if entirely removed the result
would be silent spirit. Whisky does not lose its
fusel oil in ageing.” “V.” (probably of Corowa
or Albury)—“Fusel oil is deleterious, but with
age decomposes and adds flavor and bouquet to
the whisky.” If, moreover, I stated (I keep no
copies) in my letter that grain whisky is sent to
France to be converted into brandy, bet your last
dime on me. Of course I acknowledge that since
whisky has become the rage there is an out-
let for the patent-still-alcohol, call it what you
please. My authority is the man I called my
governor. He told me it was so, and, therefore, I
plunge on one distillery, and that same whisky-
mill has draff (do you know what that is, “V. ”?)
run from John o’ Groats to the Solway in its own
railway-trucks, with the legend (say) Scotty’s Dis-
tillery printed on the sides. And does “ V.” also
know that there is not enough real brandy made
in France to fill one-tenth part of one exporter’s
bottles; and that we, i.e., the above Scotties of
the whisky-mills, supplied him with all our forty-
rod for years ? But, then, like Huxley, we don’t
abuse our temporary Gladstones, leaving that
D. V. to d d“Y. ” of Corowa or Albury. Lastly,
if Scotty, qui ego sum, says that good brandy is
produced near Narandera, just field again and bar
Scotty. Ido not think it is out of place to state
that the gentleman who allowed me to taste his
home-made brandy is Mr. Jenkins, of Hucking-
bang, who, unfortunately, cannot either sell or
give it away, it being only permitted as a fortifier
for his wine.— Scotty the Whinklek.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
11l Try It.'*
UPILUIHEI
Posted (under cover)
to any partof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10,0
Sole Agents:
m.
The Result.
Craig & Aitlien, 630-832 George-st,, Sydney
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rmoßopywE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUQHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS, of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
LIGHTS
The WELL-KNOWN
INDIAN
REMEDY.
LIVER
A Sure, Faithful, and True
Medicine. Has saved the
Lives of Millions.
PILLS.
Send for Sample Box with stamps 4s. 6d. to the Australian
Agent—T. NICOLI, Box 1164, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
U>OB WOMAN’S GOOD,
“ ORAN£€ LILY”
IS THE MOST WONDERFUL REMEDY ON EARTH.
Call or write, 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Pamphlets free.
DISCOVERED and PEREECTED by
Joseph Bos is to, C.M.G.
V
iuea/uMusOil.
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
Prescribed by Physicians.
MumL
Jkypiem
VALUABLE in Cases of
IMBI6-ESTIOIT,
Biliousness,
Acidity, and
Nervous Headache.
A SAFE APERIENT for
INFANTS,
LADIES, and INVALIDS.
The Family Medicine.
Artificial Teetli, £5.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist, 38 Wynyard-square.
COMPLETE (Upper and Lower) Gold Medal Sets
of perfectly - fitting Teeth, £5. Mastication
guaranteed. These are the best and lowest in price thatcan
be made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
gums. Old misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering with own
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate after
if wanted. Entire absence of pain during extractions by
the aid of nitrous oxide, chloride of ethyl, or cocaine.
Fee, ss. No danger or ill-effects follow. Send for Treatise
on Teeth. Consultations Free. Fees precisely the same
as advertised. Telephone 2167. Established 1879.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYN YARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert’s), SYDNEY.
m mum store, l«.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
&3T Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
WATSON’S
NOW
'Acknowledged
TI-Ie:
BEST
IN TI-lE
.MARKET
M.W.fcC 1
'J'HE FAMOUS ACORN WHISKY.
JUSTUS VAN MAUHIK’S CELEBRATED
° DUTCH CIGARS.
iJiEA DIRECT FROM THE PLANTATIONS.
Horace P. Ellis,
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, SYDNEY
I
Publications
TXENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “ MnrMia ” “ Rnhprh la DioMa ’*
‘ Martha,
Robert Ie Diable,’
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Luorezia Borgia," “William
Tell," “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,’’ “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musiesellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
Friends no Longer/’ sL^s
“’NEATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH ! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
DIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
<>«l. each, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at 3d. each, Post Free,
from the Publishers.
JPaxtoiX & Co., LONDON,
And 203 Swanston-street, MEI.DOIJtAE.
A US TRALIAN TALES,
r ' By MARCUS CLARKE. Price 2/-, postage 4d.
APPLY: Mrs. Marcus Clarke, MELICOIIKNE.
“The greatest literary genius of Australia.”— Mark Twain.
Business Announcements.
D c®ct?
g-KTy POST FREE
\\wcHes-Clocks-Jew/ellery-BirtHday*
WEDDilvlc £ CHRISTENING Presents
H-NeM/lAI\I-1755177-HI7ARFtH &t.
OPPOSITE G:P.O.
MELBOURNE-
rer" ffr ri
isssfi
itf-pOF:
FOREIGN STAMPS
Set 22 JAPANESE, 9d.
„ 8 HELIGOLAND, Bd.
„ 12 ARGENTINE, 6d.
Best Variety in the Colonies.
Packets: 30 different, 6d.; 50, Is.;
100, 2s. 6d.; 150, 55.; 200, 10s. Many
very rare. All postage, 2d. extra.
Sheets on approval. Price list free.
Wm Ackland,
162 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE.
Immediate Relief
And CURE EFFECTED
By the BRITISH SCIENTIFIC TRUSS CO’S Wonderful
Newly-patented Appliance. No Steel Bands—the acme of
comfort. Write or call for particulars.
Take Lift
Pitt-st. Entrance.
STRAND ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
GAS COOKERS.
THE
‘Eureka’ {as Cooker
Can now be obtained from the
Australian Gaslight Company
By payment of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly until
paid off. If Gas is in the room, the Cooker will
be connected FREE OF COST to the Consumer,
Five per cent. Discount allowed for
Cash Purchases.
Free Cookery Lectures in Company’s Show-room,
Haymarket, Sydney, every Wednesday afternoon,
at 2.30.
Hotels.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar ... Proprietor.
SALISBURY HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
Private Boarding Establishment.
(Within Three Minutes of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONfor Visitors. SPECIAL
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
ISP” Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Tankard’s Family Hotel,
Lonsdale Street
(next Law Courts),
fg
MELBOURNE.
Under New Management. First-class BOARD and
RESIDENCE, £1 per week (Single Room); 4s. daily.
W. li. NEALE, Manager.
T>HIIiIiIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL,
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
M i. m t o iicm:.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from 18s. per week upwards.
SCOTT’S HOTEL,
IS MOST CENTRALLY
and Conveniently
SITUATED,
Being 1 Easily Accessible
from Railway Stations
and Wharves.
MELBOURNE
The CUISINE is of THE BEST.
I\T EW ADDITIONS, quite Up-to-Date. Under the Per-
i> sonal Management of the ' Proprietor,
■w. C. WXLSODXT.


STEWART DAWSON & CO S
Specialties suitable for Wedding & Birthday Presents
The Greatest Show in Australasia at our Sydney Establishment.
No. 53A—-Gold Brooch, Now Design, 14s. fid.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 2a.
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17s. 6<L
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5 ss.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH,
B£in. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, £55.
Smaller Sizes at ±2O to £4O.
No. 590.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and Oct. Gold, 18s. fid.
m
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s.; f-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
Flno White Diamond,
ISct. Gold, £lO 103.
PIN and STUD,
15cfc. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Euby,
£7 17s. 6d.
sdfg
isond. diiver.-mouui/cu ueai Xortoisbeli COMB,
7M' 11 -, -t'l Is.
sdf
g
sdfg
Ladies* ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2 2s. ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15ct., £1 10s.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ KING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. «old, £2.
H
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
Buckle BRACELET, 9ot. Gold, £1 12s. 6d.
Very Elegant tine Diamond BRACELET, £45«
This design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
H
HOB
: i
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s. ; 14in., £3 6s.
’
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
m
m
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold, £8 10s.
m
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold. £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15ct. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
9ct. Gold, £115s.; 15ot. Gold, £3 5s.
SIZES.
4 Diamonds, 3 fine
Sapphires, 18ct. Gold,
£6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
f »
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles,
Ivory Points, 834 in., £1 2s. 6d.
s
Ladies" ALBERT. oot, Gold. £2; 150 t., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is. j
15ot. Gold, £ll7a. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £4 10s.
Met. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 ss.
9c t. Gold Brooch, Bs. Cd. Silver, 2s. 6d.
ax
m
! ■
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
B%in. by £s 17s. 6d.
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling- Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
c Ki
No. 589.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls gnd Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 ss.
m
sea
Elegant Diamond STAR, £6O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d«
R
No. 687.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d.
iadies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price,
onpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE.—The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE and NOVELTIES SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS have never been approached
Qy&v Twenty Thousand Pounds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishment is a complete constellation of biilliancy and a panorama of artistic show. Everything NEW, EL j ,
of UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound.
412 Greorge-street, and Strand, Sydney, A.S.W.


Spring BCids l)a\f€ BCirst
at Hark Foy’s-
A Riot of LoydifyeSs-
MENZIES’ HOTEL,
MODERNISED & RENOVATED at a cost of £30,000.
The MOST PALATIAL FAMILY HOTEL
in Southern Hemisphere. Terms f rom 44 4 s.
MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS may be made by writing to the Manager.
■ - J -- -'nrMnrratiTßw •*;*»«* • -** - «_
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
A Pure Tobacco Dip. Best and Cheapest in the Market.
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP.
DIP
Cures und. Prevents Scab and
Absolutely Destroys Ticks and Lice. ’’ Footrot.
Nicotine JMnnge Cnve (in bottles), 1/6; pts., 2/6 each. Nicotine alight (Jnve (in bottles), -|-pts , 1/6, pts., 2/6 each.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO., “Rialto,” Collins-street, MELBOURNE; 63 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
“The Vagabond.”
The mystery in
which the career
of “ The Vaga-
bond, ” previous to
his oometic ap-
pearance in the
Australian sky, is
enveloped will
' probably never
now be solved. It
was his own choice
to keep his past
veiled in clouds.
Judging by the
notices published
since his decease,
he had not in his
latter years departed from the secretiveness which
was so marked during the period immediately suc-
ceeding his first coruscations. Many people can
remember the sensation his writings caused, the
intense curiosity as to the unknown author, and
the active attempts to discover his antecedents,
when at length the veil of anonymity was dropped
and Mr. “Julian Thomas” stood revealed as the
author of “The Vagabond Papers.” That dis-
closure was a great disappointment. From an in-
termittent sequence of grandiose suggestions and
tantalising hints in the famous “Papers,” the
public had formed rather magnificent theories as
to the importance and social rank of the Great
Unknown.
* * * *
Just previous to the appearance in the Argus of
“The Vagabond Papers,” the London Daily
News or Daily Telegraph had been publishing
a series of papers, signed “ Azimut Batuk,”
written somewhat in the same vein, and it was
understood that “ Azimut Batuk ” was the nom de
guerre of some very important personage indeed.
At one stage of “ The Vagabond ” series it was
bruited about that “ The Vagabond ” was no other
than “ Azimut Batuk ” under a fresh mask. Some
passages in “ A Month in Pentridge ” shook that
belief. It was agreed that Azimut was far too
great a person ever to have acquired those qualifi-
cations of dispensing chemist and tooth-drawer,
which enabled* “ The Vagabond ” to work up some
of his most telling episodes in his Pentridge
sketch. One of these was his account of how he
relieved the hangman of a huge aching molar.
But the touch-and-go hints and glimpses of alleged
past events, scattered through the Papers, un-
questionably tickled the public expectation. “ The
Vagabond ” was, by fitful flashes, shown by him-
self as an individual who had been on chatting
terms with Gladstone and other men of European
magnitude, and behind the scenes when events of
European importance occupied the stage. There
was a touch here displaying the diplomat, and
there another, the man of action. Without much
circumlocution he gave narratives from personal
knowledge of events previously unknown, relative
to the Fenian movement at the trial of Head-
Centre Stephens, also touching the Agricultural
Laborers’ awakening which brought Joseph Arch
to the front and seriously alarmed the British
Home Office and the Govt, generally. He had
been mixed up in some rather important but occult
way with the uprising or suppression—which of
the two was not made at all clear—of the Com-
mune in Paris, and had been arrested and locked
up in the Mazas Prison in that connection.
* * * •
Then again the Western Hemisphere had wit-
nessed his activity. He had housed and nursed
Stanley in his chambers in New York, when that
eminent explorer, in the first flush of his fame,
returned thither in broken health, after his suc-
cessful expedition in search of Dr. Livingstone.
Anyhow, when Mr. Julian Thomas stood dis-
closed as the writer of the really brilliant sketches
in Melb. Argus, his personality didn’t seem to fit
in with the conceptions built up from the demi-
semi-revelations scattered through the articles.
The writing conveyed impressions of an indivi-
duality much greater than the writer cared to
communicate. The intimations of importance
had the appearance of sheer unavoidable leakages.
They seemed as though they were due to momen-
tary relaxation of a deliberate effort to conceal a
real importance. If readers gathered that “ The
Vagabond” moved in lofty company and dis-
charged weighty functions, that was due merely
to slips of the pen and expressions fraught with
more impressiveness than had been designed. The
public had fancied that, when “The Vagabond ”
should deign to disclose himself, it would be a
step antecedent to his immediate absorption into
the innermost circles of Government House and
Ministerial closets. The real outcome of the dis-
closure of the personality of Mr. Julian Thomas
never got nearer those ideals than a public banquet
by “ our leading citizens.” Instead of the majestic
being, the living monument of self-repressed power
and almost unconscious magnitude, the real man
proved to be of florid style, rather apt to magnify
than to depreciate his claims to homage and
admiration. It became apparent that instead
of being in a state of semi-exclusion, and of having
stooped to gratify Australia with his observations,
Mr. Julian Thomas felt himself to be at the
zenith of his fortunes, and was almost peremp-
torily greedy of the admiration which his recent
performances entitled him to. It was perfectly
clear that this was not the sort of man who would
reserve any circumstance which might contribute
to surround him with recognitions and deferences.
He was not.the type of individual into whose ear
a Gladstone would pour confidences. Whatever
his distinctions, whatever his deeds of mark,
whatever his abilities, no one could fail to see that
he “ had them all on.” His bearing was not the
bearing of a Ben Franklin, fraught with vast
influence and wide knowledge under an exterior
of modest plainness. His manners were not the
manners of a Talleyrand emerged from an incog-
nito. It was rather the effusive swagger of Red-
mond Barry, insistant on exacting recognition of
the utmost of his claims to distraction. Thus, he
had not long dropped an incognito for a pseu-
donym before he tacked D.C.L. to his name,
alleging a learned degree conferred by some ob-
scure collegiate institution somewhere in the
Southern States of the Gre*#t Republic. As to
other antecedents, he continued vague and ora-
cular.
* * • *
“ The Vagabond’s ” peculiar conversation at this
period was interlarded with references to where
he had been—which covered the whole extent of
the Bohemia of his times. But what he had been
here and there, or when he had figured in this or that
region, were points touched with dexterous inde-
finiteness. It is not certain whether it was from
his conversation or something published by him
that it was gathered that among his adventures
had been participation in the expedition of
Walker, the. filibuster and sometime Presi-
dent of Nicaragua. It was probably in con-
versation. He claimed to have made ac-
quaintance in that association with the two
Lysters William and Frederick who also,
according to that account, were among Walker’s
recruits from San Francisco. This was not ex-
actly a piece of self-exaltation. Walker’s despera-
does were not at all ashamed of the sort of fame
which they believed due to themselves. It was a
common boast among them that “ San Francisco
is the sink of the Pacific coast, and we are the
dregs of San Francisco.” The Lysters, for a long
series of years connected with opera in Australia —
William as entrepreneur and Fred, as score-
adapter and basso—did come from San Francisco,
and had on the Pacific Coast experienced many
strange vicissitudes. It was there, probably, that
they had for comrade that magnificent specimen
of manly beauty, one of the Haigs of Bemerside, a
wandering scion of an antique race of Scotch lairds
who occasionally joined their company in Aus-
tralia, and under the stage-name of De Haga
added to the attractions of the operas his noble
presence and tremendous voice. All three, Haig
and the Lysters, were grand figures of men : quite
6ft., and built in proportion. The scraggy fili-
buster, Walker, with his intuitive knowledge of
men and his heart of steel, would have chosen
them from amidst thousands. And Julian Thomas,
although not of the same stature, was a well-knit,
solid man, brimming over with talent, and not one
whom Walker would fail to welcome.
* * . *
What “The Vagabond’s” actual name was re-
mains par of the mystery of his past. He arrived in
Sydney from ’Frisco not long before his first article
in the Melbourne Argus commenced his celebrity,
gyffiSSl'terft £2
Circular Quay. There he was known as “ Sydney
James,” a name which he had gone under
years before in another part of the world. His
first article, or at any rate the first one which
struck the public attention, was a sketch of “A
Model Lodging House”: apparently-it might
almost be said obviously—an account of personal
experiences in the semi-charitable public estab-
lishment so called, in Melbourne, where men
found shelter and subsistance when at the end of
their resources. The thing was written on the
lines and in the spirit of Greenwood’s “Amateur
Casual” article, which made such a sensation in
London and set a fashion for journalistic work of
that character. The subject and the signature
were unquestionably the outcomes of the writer’s
circumstances. The article was very clever, and,
being offered to the Argus, its value and merit
were recognised by the late Hugh George, at that
time practically an absolute ruler over the paper.
Its instantaneous success, on publication, led to a
demand for others in the same vein, ‘ and the
quality rather rising than otherwise, a long series
found place in the Argus and Australasian,
achieving perhaps the most emphatic and best-
merited success ever attained in Australian jour-
nalism. In fact, the “ Vagabond ” Papers con-
stitute what in athletics is termed “ a record,”
and the man who can surpass it has not yet
appeared
11 '* * * *
The moment of the “Vagabond’s” abandon-
ment of his incognito was that of the climax of his
literary career. While the authorship of his
writings remained a matter of speculation, their
intrinsic merits were reinforced by the interest of
the mystery surrounding the authorship. The
peculiar suggestiveness already dwelt upon, of
passing hints, had teased and excited the curiosity
of the public almost to a point of frenzy,
Readers were seized with a fever of con-
jecture. Thus in the articles they found not
merely clever writing and interesting disclosures
but all the provocations of a hidden identity.
When this curiosity was satisfied—or disappointed
—by the disclosure of the author, and his writings
were consequently deprived of that intrinsic charm
their popularity rapidly abated. “ The Vaga-
bond ” had fairly exhausted the resources of local
interest. The manager of the Argus decided to
utilise the popular writer’s talents in a fresh direc-
tion. Mr. Thomas was despatched to Cooktown
on a special mission to investigate on the spot the
problem, just then very much in evidence, of the
best course to be adopted with respect to the pro-
digious influx of Chinese to Northern Queensland,
attracted by the Palmer gold discoveries. Mr.
Thomas accordingly proceeded to Queensland,
and in Brisbane broke fresh ground by appearing
as a lecturer. The effort was not happy. His
manner did not please, and his method 01 pro-
nouncing with a self-sufficient complacency, on
points of political difficulty which the Parliamen-
tary leaders of the province had confessed pre-
sented to them almost insoluble complications, was
received with a mixture of derision and resent-
ment. Arrived at Cooktown, a single week
sufficed Mr. Thomas for the announcement by
telegram to the Argus, republished by Queens-
land papers, to the effect, in very concise terms,
that he had arrived at a solution of the whole
difficulty. This proclamation was too much for
the public risibility. Respect for the ability of
the writer began to sink in amusement at the self-
sufficiency of the man. Mr. Julian Thomas’ star
was visibly on the wane.
* * * *
It was not long after this that the connection
between “ The Vagabond ” and the Melbourne
Argus came to an end. But, prior to that part-
ing, he did some very good work as special cor-
respondent at New Caledonia for the paper, at the
time of the aboriginal insurrection. Later, his
pen was transferred to the service of the Age. He
obtained a post as secretary to a Government
board, which for some years exempted him from
the strain of an unattached contributor to the
press. But his later years were occupied in that
vocation.
* * * *
On the subject of his parentage and birthplace,
Mr. Thomas seems never to have opened himself.
Some of his writings hint at a Virginian origin,
others indicate Wales as his natal land. Indica-
tions bore witness to a far-back infusion of Afri-
can blood. As for the early part of his career, an
authority beyond question competent, the late
Mr. William O’Carroll, whilom editor of the
Courier, himself proud to tell that in Ireland he
had been a member of the Fenian Brotherhood,
although in Queensland he claimed that the
Queen had no more loyal subject, pronounced with
deliberation that “The Vagabond” disclosed in
certain of his “ Papers” too intimate acquaintance
with the minor workings of the Fenian body to
have been casually obtained, yet not sufficient to
have been procured by actual affiliation. Again,
a settler in the Caboolture district, who had been
intimately associated with Joseph Arch in the
formation of the English Agricultural Laborers’
League, professed to recognise in “ The Vaga-
bond,” who had written for the Argus a very inte-
restingaccountof the agricultural question, a person
who, bearing the name of Sydney James, had myste-
riously made his appearance at the headquarters of
the agitation, endeavored to ingratiate himself
with the organisers, as a sympathiser, but who, in
default of definite knowledge of what his precise
business on the scene might be, was repulsed with
suspicion. These observations, taken in connec-
tion with the indefinite sort of occasion for Mr.
Thomas’s presence in Paris, as narrated by him-
self during the Commune, and his determined
reticence regarding his antecedent occupations, left
in many minds in Brisbane and elsewhere an im-
pression which has never been effaced. “ The
Vagabond ” was “ good company ” in a Bohemian
way, and a most entertaining raconteur, although
constantly the hero of his own capital stories.
His age, at the time of his decease, must have
been nearly 60 years. But nothing precise can be
stated in the absence of such particulars as are
commonly known of even less gifted and far less
notable men.
Sydney Daily Telegraph the other dayan-
nounoed a sale of the late Henry Parkes : curios,
one of them being “ two coins joined together
bearing date of 270 B.o.” Such a coin should
fetch a lot of money. Very few ancient monarchs
knew enough to date their coins in advance like
that.
The Yackandandah (Vic.) medical case,
Coane v. Mueller, which would have revealed the
possibilities of rural medical cut and thrust, and
have shown the occasional hilariousness of medical
journalism, has been very wisely settled out of
court, both sides withdrawing imputations and
considering each other gentlemen.
Careful trials at Wagga experimental-farm
show that the best results are got by hand-sowing
wheat grains separately Sin. apart in parallel rows
6in. apart. Director Yalder has, for the last
three years, thus got from 17 to 36 bushels to the
acre, which is far above the record of much better
land in the neighborhood. This method only uses
up 41b. seed to the acre. On some of the French
Government farms wheat machine-sown to the
same scale averages 60 bushels per acre. Moral
plain.
The continuous series of diving fatalities
at Thursday Island appears to be non-preventable
by precautions or regulations. Nearly all the
accidents are caused by carelessness or imperfect
appliances, and occur to men diving on their own
account without proper assistance, and not to men
working for a white or other employer. To end
them you would have to employ an inspector on
every individual ricketty craft that every am-
bitious Jap or Manilla-man is able to hire for a
month to risk his life from.


Chicagoan hog - packer Armour has five
employes at .£4OOO sterling a year each.
“It matters not to England who has Con-
stantinople.”— Brassey. Not if she can’t help it.
Mr. John Reay Watson, of Gympie, Q.,
will shortly publish, in London, a story which,
if the tale contributed by Mr. Watson to last
week’s Bulletin is a fair criterion, will be very
successful indeed.
A well-known Australian artist writing
from London: —
I believe this time of the year is termed the “ silly
season,” but it is in no way different from any other time
so far as I can see. What Ido notice is that the most
silly-looking people you see about always seem to have
plenty of money.
A Bulletin man writes from London :
Per last mail I forwarded you a Daily Mail containing
a sketch by Souter, taken from The Bulletin and intro-
duced as bearing on the question of “ Husbands on holi-
days—with wives or without T ’ A letter I wrote to the
Evening News aforesaid drawing attention to their mis-
appropriation of Bulletin matter was not acknowledged,
and I am afraid it is hopeless to expect to cure the Harms-
worths of plagiarism. They have always done it and
have made it pay handsomely. The Answers Publica-
tions, Ltd., according to the balance-sheet of July last,
netted £53,000 for the 12 months (by using free copy
other papers had paid for). A div. of 224 per cent, was
paid and £BOOO placed to reserve. (Brain’s will never be
wealthy; it’s the exploiter of brains who takes the swag.)
Most of the London papers have a standing grievance
against the Harmsworths, who regularly “ lift ” special
articles, also “ exclusive information,” and insert same in
their dailies, thus filling those dailies on consistent and
economical lines.—
He who prigs and makes it pay
Will ne’er stop prigging night or day.
There is great activity in the literary and journalistic
worlds here—new' monthlies, weeklies, dailies are being
published, or in preparation, and the stock of short-story
makers is rapidly increasing and producing literature of a
shallow fireworks type. Publishers say Australian tales
are a drug in the market, but T. Fisher Unwin thinks
otherwise. The “ bike ” craze has undoubtedly harmed
the book-trade, but the wheel is even now' on the wane
ow'ing to the number of ghastly accidents, and the develop-
ment of anaemia amongst immoderate girl riders (vide
British Medical).
Readers of The Bulletin, whose gaze
happens to alight on this paragraph, are invited
to write to us for samples of the New Summer
Suitings, which we are supplying suits to measure
for 455. the complete suit. The 455. includes free
delivery per parcels post to any town in New
South Wales. Hordern Bros., Economic Tailors,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
• ~
■
*
W*mSm
fff
*4
-■ .* ~x
• •• y*
■ m ■■■> w
m
REUBEN ROSEYEAR (Ten Months Old).
FED ON ARNOTT’S MILK ARROWROOT BISCUITS.
Arijott’s Word PGzzle.
«£>s PRIZE £5
“ The tour of the Ninth Australian Eleven in England has
been a most profitable one, as regards both reputation and
gate-money. Among the various factors which brought about
this gratifying result, the most effective was the team’s
Fill in what you consider the missing word, and send the Coupon to ARNOTT’S BISCUIT
FACTORY, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
The answers will be placed in a bag, and the FIRST FIVE WINNERS drawn therefrom
will have the Prize distributed amongst them. Competition closes on FRIDAY, 30th October, 1896.
Preparation of Arpott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits:—
FOR INFANTS—First crush the Biscuits, then pour enough boiling water on them
to give them either through the Feeding-bottle or with a spoon. OLDER CHIL-
DREN may eat them without preparation.
Beware of lfi>itatioQS!
The Bank I Knew.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There were three of them in the little up-country
bank. The manager was troubled with a perpe-
tual thirst, and didn’t care how he spent his
money or how things went in the office. The
teller (or accountant, as he liked to be called) was
a young married man with tastes matching £lOOO
per annum, instead of his poor little £l5O. The
junior was likewise a youngster who found that
his £BO a year hardly paid for his board and
collars. It certainly could not be stretched into
providing billiards and nap.—let alone touring
with football and cricketing teams.
The mischief all started through the manager.
He would look in on his journey from one pub. to
another and say to the teller “ Give us a couple of
notes, Bogson, and I’ll give you a cheque when I
come in.” Perhaps he would not come in again,
and the amount would be held over as “notes”
until next day, when very likely a similar per-
formance would take place. This would go on
until, when the manager did give a cheque, his
credit was not big enough to meet it. Then the
junior would inform him that his account would
be overdrawn if the cheque was paid, and : “ Oh,
tell Bogson to hold it over to the end of the
month! ” At the end of the month the cheque
would very likely swamp his salary, and so the
game would start again.
The teller also found it convenient to have a
small floating loan from the bank in this way, and
the junior was not above borrowing a fiver from
the teller, though he knew quite well where it
came from.
Of course these small loans did not appear in
the weekly overdraft-list. The amounts were too
small to bother headquarters with ; and, besides,
the money was just lying idle in the till. So the
cash-book was generally doctored to the extent of
£5O or £6o—a sum which the boss could at any
time get from Murphy, the publican; and, as
there was only one train at 6 p.m. every day,
there was not much chance of being caught nap-
ping if things were managed properly.
At the yearly inspection the old fossilised in-
spector certainly made a “point” at Murphy’s
cheque for £6O, held in the cash, but was appeased
on being informed that Murphy was a valued
client of the bank who often required change after
hours. Murphy, on his part, got his money back
the day the inspector left. He asked no questions,
as the boss was too good a customer. Besides, he
had been told it was to square a temporary over-
draft not authorised by headquarters. So things
went smoothly on—the floating loan gradually in-
creasing in size.
One day, however, a mining co. in which the
manager was deeply interested had to be wound
up, and he was told he was liable for a guarantee
of £5OO entered into to oblige a friend in another
town.
“Oh, Bogson ! ” he said, “I wish you would
remit this sum through the Disunited ” (the oppo-
sition pawn-shop). “ I’ll be getting the amount
up from Bungtown shortly; my brother there
owes me nearly £1000.”
Bogson knew this was a lie, but he sent the
money as directed. He was pretty bard-pushed
himself just then, and the manager <u6uld not say
anything if he also borrowed a hundred or so. The
junior was not supposed to know anything about
the matter, but he soon found it out and came in
for a share himself, as he had lost heavily at the
last races.
Bogson knew very well if an inspector should
come along there would be a short shrift for both
himself and the manager. The manager trusted
to Providence to right things, and drank more
whisky. The junior reckoned that, if there was
any mess, he would be out of it, as he was not
supposed to know anything about the cash.
Bogson was not altogether a fool, and tried hard
to find some means of covering the deficiency. At
last he hit upon a plan. There was a customer of
the bank called Mucker, a bachelor who lived by
himself on a little farmland who, to all outward
appearances, was as poor as—you are. This
Mucker had two fixed deposits with the bank—
£looo each —the receipts for which deposits he
was in the habit of endorsing and leaving with the
bank as “ bills for collection,” so that he should
not lose a day or two’s interest, as he would do if
he were not present on the day they fell due. In
this manner the receipts were renewed without
requiring his presence.
Next time these receipts were renewed, instead
of putting them to “ bills for collection,” Bogson
marked them off as paid in the register, stating in
the margin that “ money was required to purchase
land.” As the bank often let good customers
break their fixed-deposits before they became due
for a special purpose, this passed without note in
the next inspection. Of course, Bogson knew that
when the year came round again he would have to
pay Mucker’s interest, and also make out new
receipts. But a year is a long time :no one knows
what may happen in a year.
In this case the devil favored his own. Before
the year was up Mucker died suddenly. He left
no will, and his estate was wound up by the
Government official. The usual notice came to the
bank, asking if John Mucker, deceased, had any
moneys there. The reply was made that Mr.
Mucker had a couple of hundred at his credit on
open account. Nothing was said about the fixed
deposits, the boss remarking : “If they find any
memo, among the old fellow’s effects about those
receipts, we can simply say it was a mistake on
our part and hand over the money. If they don’t
find any, we will just stick to it.”
Nothing more was heard about the matter, and
old Mucker’s money liquidated the floating loans
and paid a handsome dividend. The moral is
unfortunately absent, for no retribution followed.
The manager died a few years ago after a bad turn
of d.t. The teller is now an inspector himself.
The junior is an inspector’s accountant. That’s
me.
WEKA.
At Calga station, Coonabarabran, N.S.W.,
4366 hogget ewes shore for 21 bales, weighing over
21 tons—a fraction short of 111 b. per sheep.
One of the pioneer prospectors of Kiandra
goldfield, John Hart, aged 81 years, was found
dead in the bush near his hut the other day,
having succumbed to exhaustion. The old man,
who in the early days of the ‘ ‘ Snowy ” was said
to be worth £lO,OOO, was at his death partially
dependent on his neighbors for food.
The Sydney Telegraph man who writes
the papers on “ The Disastrous Effects of Pro-
tection ” has done his second whoop. His
strong point this time was that Vic. and N.S.W.
factory statistics couldn’t be compared because—
The practice adopted by the Victorian Statist is to ex-
clude from his returns all establishments employing less
than four Europeans, or less than two Chinese, except
where steam or other mechanical power is used. (See
Parliamentary return, October 1, 1896.) The Statistical
Bureau of New South Wales, however, excludes all estab-
lishments employing less than six hands, regardless
whether they are Chinese or Europeans, and also with the
exception of those using steam or mechanical power. (See
“ Wealth and Progress,” 1894, p. 92.) It is admitted that
the Victorian establishments thus excluded over and above
those included in the New South Wales returns, i.e., all
those employing four and five Europeans, and from two
to five Chinese, employ more than 1000 operatives, and
this number, therefore, ought to be added to that shown
as employed in New South Wales factories.
This looks explicit enough, but on page 92 of
“ Wealth and Progress ” for 1894 there is no such
statement as that quoted ; in fact there is nothing
about factories at all, page 92 being a dissertation
on British shipping !
Dr. Knaggs’ paper to the Aus. Medical
Association on the causes of human fallibility
was highly interesting, and brought together
some curious illustrations of the way in which a
man’s life is taken out of his control by sub-con-
sciousness, or by the action of nerve centres in-
dependent of volition ; but the case made out for
continuous expert examination of public officials
was not strong enough to definitely silence ob-
jections. Tests and examinations for the
simpler abnormalities of the senses are easy
to devise, and are, to some extent, already in
operation, but the “automatic action” and the
“ imperative idea ” which bulk so largely as causes
of human error cannot in the nature of things be
measured except with the assistance of the subject
—and doubtfully then—and in the nature of things
the candidate for a public office is not going to
tell of such defects—if he is aware of them. What
form of expert examination could have hindered
the striking accident to which Dr. Knaggs refers
when a station-master who had rightly said “ Line
clear ” for many months said it wrongly and auto-
matically on one fatal day and wrecked two
trains ?
A Good Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
“ ‘ Having heard the evidence before you, have
you anything to say in your defence ? You may
enter the witness-box and be sworn ; but if you do,
whatever you say will be taken down in writing,
and may be used against you, and if you make a
false statement you will be liable to be prosecuted
for wilful and corrupt perjury.’”
The prisoner glances at the card whereon are
printed the words that the court-orderly has just
recited, and, with a smile of scorn, he remarks
sotto voce that he “ain’t tykin’ any,” and waves
his hand contemptuously.
“Your worchips—won’t yer let me —can’t I
speak a word or two ? ”
It is a short, stout, motherly-looking old woman
in a faded black bonnet and with her face stained
with the tears welling so recently from her red-
rimmed eyes.
Her identity is not hard to guess as she steps
forward to the side of the attorneys’ table and
sobs the broken sentence towards the bench.
“ Who is this woman? ” demands the chairman.
“ I’m ’is mother,” she volunteers, nodding her
head towards the young man whom the last five
witnesses had been abusing with such vigor, “ an’
if your worchips would be so kind, I’d like to say
a word or two.”
“Do you wish to give evidence on the prisoner’s
behalf ? ”
“Yes, your worchip.”
“ Then get into the box and be sworn.”
With trembling limbs and with fingers ner-
vously clutching the rail of the stair, the little old
woman obeys.
“Take the Bible in your right hand,” orders
the C.P.S. ; “ your right hand—not your left.
The evidence you shall give in this case —don’t
kiss it now —shall be the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth, so help you God. Kiss
the book.”
“Now, what do you wish to say?” asks the
presiding P.M.
“ He’s a good boy, your worchip, an’ I’d ask yer
to treat him lenient. I never had a day’s trouble
with him in me life, an’ he’s looked after me and
the childer, and worked for us ever since me
’usban’ died, this twelve year. He’s a real good
boy, your worchip. P’r’aps a little wild when he
has a drink or two, but I never had the least cause
of complaining about him. He’s a hard-working
young feller, as any of the neighbors’ll tell yer,
an’ if all mothers had boys like ’im they’d be
better off. Let ’im off this time, your worchip,
woncher ? ’E’s a good boy.”
The poor old woman’s appeal is not thrown
away. The reporters pause in their exchange of
anecdotes to listen, and even the solicitors,
grudging every minute that keeps them from the
case they are waiting for, manifest an interest in
the plaint. The prisoner has lost his air of
bravado, and his lip trembles as he looks at his
poor old mother in the box. Possibly he’s not
such a bad sort of fellow, after all. Those five
witnesses were certainly dead against him, but
all of them were policemen and it was one of
themselves that he was fighting when they came
up. They stick to one another like glue, these
constables, and possibly the one he hit thoroughly
deserved his thrashing. Some of these officious
police would try the temper of any high-spirited
young fellow to its bursting point, and this one,
being a powerfully-built man, was a trifle too good
for the representative of the law. The sympathy
of the spectators is as manifestly with the accused
now as it was with the police at the beginning, and
theßenchseemsdistinctly favorable. The only man
in court whose position is difficult to define is the
orderly. He fingers a huge sheet of paper the
whole time, and never shifts his eye from the chair-
man on the bench. He moves a pace or two in
front of his desk and then drops a pace or two
back, and, as he smacks his lips, he is reminiscent
of nothing so much as a hungry caged tiger lick-
ing its chops in anticipation of the fine fat dogs it
sees outside.
Suddenly the chairman speaks: “Anything
known of him ? ”
“ He’s a good boy, your worchip,” remarks the
mother by way of a reminder.
Then the orderly lets out: “Nineteen times
drunk, seven times obscene language, once insult-
ing behavior, once armed with an offensive weapon,
five times assault, seven times assaulting the police,
twice discharged for assault and robbery, l and 12
months on 30th July last for housebreaking and
stealing. He’s just discharged from gaol after
doing that sentence, your worship. What d’ye
say to that, Gilligan ?” ,
The prisoner did not speak.
The bench did.
It said “Six months.”
St. Kilda.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
The Hard’s Confession.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ They learn in sorrow what they teach in song.”—
Shelley.
‘My Love is void of Vanity ” —a sonnet
Endowed my charmer with a dainty bonnet.
“My Heart is Full ” —a noble piece of verse
Paid Snip and Snob when empty was my purse.
Those vigorous verses, “What Care I for Gold ? ”
Brought guineas twain that backed “ The Baron
Bold.”
My noble ode on “ Water pure and pale ”
Supplied me several days with amber ale.
That doleful dirge, “ How soon we pass away ’
In vinous joys turned one dull night to day.
“ Engulf me, Grave —I fear not Death or Pain,
The doctor paid who made me well again.
We bards have each a noble-soaring soul,
Our bulging craniums butt against the Pole.
We’re cradled into Poetry by thirst,
We gain by warbling what we lose in Burst.
N.Q.
P. LUFTIG.


HOW TWO BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN
Ware Rescued from Disease, and Restored to Health
and Happiness by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
£
%
A
W
rK>
x«:
Throughout the world Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is noted as a blood purifier
and a tonic and invigorate... Testimonials to its worth are to be numbered
by the thousands, and come from all the four quarters of the globe. One
of the latest is from Miss Mary Maguire, a well-known Philadelphia
business woman, who has two nephews, both, aged five years, Elliott
Maguire and Walter Kester. Out of gratitude for the cure of their
diseases by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla she sends us their portraits, which we
reproduce above, and writes :
“I can safely say that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has saved those children much agony and
pei liaps theii lives. Since they were born, not one dollar in doctor’s fees has been spent upon
them, and the only medicine they have taken has been the Sarsaparilla. They first began on
it two years and a half ago. They hadn’t been strong, but were never exactly sick till then.
It was early in the spring and both children, who are cousins of almost the same age, fell ill
at the same time. Elliott’s trouble was chiefly in his stomach at first. He had violent indi-
gestion, and at such an early age that was something alarming. Then eczema made its
appearance. These unhealthy conditions were largely hereditary. The little boy’s skin
began to blotch up and eruptions made their appearance. With Walter it was different. His
arms and the upper part of his legs were badly swollen and the veins seemed to stand out like
pm pie cords. He also had stomach trouble, which was inherited, and it is pretty hard to get
medicine to cure inherited diseases. However, I had seen Ayer’s Sarsaparilla advertised to
cure such cases and I got a bottle of it and gave it to both hoys. The first bottle produced
a 1 e tillemarkable change. It was wonderful. Then I began a regular Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
ie.i.tment. I gave the medicine to them three times a day. The blood troubles disappeared
ami their skin cleared up splendidly. Then their stomachs got into condition again. Since
that time I have given it to them regularly every spring. They have got so used totaking it in
that season that when I miss a dose they say: ‘ Auntie, yon forgot our Ayer’s.’ They have
never had any other medicine whatever, and that alone has cured them and made them well,
strong and hardy. I consider the Sarsaparilla a wonderful medicine.”
Ayer f s Sarsaparilla,
HRakes Rich, Red Blood, and invigorates the Entire System.
Tales of the . 0
. . Convict System
PRICE Is. ... per Post, Is. 3d.
w THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS are FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If vou can shnw
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will mtTr
you from us the price of the material, and F * °
We will Pay the Cost of Malting up a New Dress.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress.
erg
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS
beginning. 2nd week. Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,”
specifics, etc., when 1 will send you FR£E the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing: Manly Vigor in
young and old men. The Homoepathic Treatment cures in I.jr weeks. All letters sent
seakd. Address, Pr. IRVING CO., c/r Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
sd
■
Worth a Guinea a I
has passed into a proverb
expressive of universal approval
concerning a medicine of rare value.
This Notable Verdict,
3 . stifled by a sale of 6,000,000 boxes year! /,
must secure the confidence of sufferers
in all climes and countries,
and
ever-widening fame
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Of
ever-widening fame
and
in all elimes and countries
must secure the confidence of
justified by a sale of 6,000,000 boxes yearly.
This Notable Verdict
concerning a medicine of rare value,
expressive of universal approval,
has passed into a proverb—
orth a Guinea a Box.
r 4
I -?r
m
'A
1
r
0- -
Ml
KT\
'fcK?'
5&
Q
AH! THAT’S THE QUESTION.
Jack: “What is your favorite drink—champagne or beer ? n
Harry : “It depends. Is it your shout or mine 1 ”


▼▼
fg
‘TCHARSVIING SCENT.”
H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
■^NSO*,
WHITE ROSE.
“The Sweetest of Sweet Odours.”
Delightfully and delicately fragrant.
BSIWARE OF IMITATIONS.
ATKINSON S
ONLY GENUINE
Perfume, Toilet Powder, Soap, Touih Powder,
Sachets, & all other specialities with this
“ charming ” odour, of all Dealers through-
out the World & of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St.,London.
The Manufacturers of ELECIBO-FLATED ROODS and CUTLERY
—ARE —
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—of —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
/SPOONS &. PORKS
1 AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDUTEY.
Collins
‘‘THE BLOCK,”
Street, n^CDESH.I
1.R.C0.”
Brand
(regd.)
TIRES
7 liich are made on the Dunlop principle, and equal quality in every
respect. Wear guaranteed.
255. each —all Sizes.
Internal Tubes.
Non-slipping Bands.
Solution.
Pedal Rubbers.
Handles.
Repairing Sheet.
PLEASE NOTE that we do not offer above as “Dunlop Tyres,” but
as made upon a similar principle.
The India Humber, Gutta Percba
& Telegraph Works Go. Ltd.
Sydney Branch. : 283 GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter-street).
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
GOODS
!»“ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the on’mary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. t3lf" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
m £1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of belt
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
FOOD & CE GO
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE ; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
M A KING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMER Y SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)-92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents 11. PATES ON, MANAGER,
—— —-—
Gardner Governor.
Parke & Lacy Conjpapy, Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mining Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
Importers of Mine & Mill Supplies.
Penbertliy Injector.
Korting Injector.
Double SigiitFeed Lubricator.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class of Worts. Agents Everywliere.
Batho’s
taking Powdep .
“ OAGrOKTET ” Cha-Bapagne. EXTRA SUP. DRY.
& CO’S Sherries. IN BULK anq CASE.
“ MARIPOSA ” Cigars. In 5C and IUO BOXES.
The above can now be had from the SOLE AGENTS—
SCOTT, 3IBBALD & CO.,
20 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
GIGARS.
The popular favorites. Equal in flavor and aroma to cigars of twice their
cost. Always reliable and in good condition. Best value ever known.
.
STOP THAT COUGH!
Don’t Delay—TAKE
BommuCTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
CEtegistex-eca..)
[copy.]
“Theatre Royal, Sydney, April 20. 1890.
“ My Demi Mb. BONNINGTON.
“ Allow me, on behalf of Mrs. Holt, to thank you very sincerely for your
kind thought in sending her, on Saturday, a bottle of your famed Irish Moss. I may say that
it is an old and valued friend of ours, and I am sure our esteem of its virtues will be
/strengthened by the acquaintance with it which we now renew, through your good agency.
“ With all sincere wishes for your success and well-being,
“I remain, yours cordially, BLAND IIOLT.”
