

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
CADBURY'S COCOA
A Stimulating', Sustaining 1 Cup. Made Instantly.
Eat PARSONS’ PURE JAMS'
*9
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOE— .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
Xg, >
o <£>v
<RActtJocK>
5 V.
V
c»
R. A. HERVEY, Agen t, as Pitt Street, SYDNEY
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
■m
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
ALL STOREKEEPERS
IN HI. S. W * QUEENSLAND.
VliMl
liilliy
MBm
:Ss£§3
Wjlllf Vjlllr^sr
mmmtt
an
bi|SIK
B¥dlS
WMm
1!<I
*2.'
“r
■r?.:
il
■' \j-iv
»»...i>aa»3icucTMji
ll.
mm
iMi!
M'trnm
-j»:
SSM
ROBERTS’
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
4s and 2s per bottle.
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
Whisky, 3/9
Roberts’ Special Whisky for
Influenza.
Splendid Rum, for Coughs and
Colds.
Very Superior old Port Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
Before vising The Ot/ write to the Manager for
(gird of Tariff. (orrtypondence promptly attended to.
sdfs
-,r.
Nk
'i'ii >i-rv-*:
CJ ■
TvVfli
1
Ill*
V
FURNITURE.
df
W. Walker, Sons, & Bartholomew, Ltd.,
357 George Street, Sydney,
And Bunhill Row, London.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World's Pair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
EYS
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
’ Coin Sins over, 300 Apartments,
f%urh»sht-a v. uK a'il. Modern Luxury.
Two minutes' from the Park,
Kensington Gardens- Imperial
h.Miilnc, and.in ihfr nnd s t_ol__t£e_
1310 H
Fashionable Quarter. MODERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
JAMES BAILEY, M.P., Managing Director.
SENIORS
TONIC
(REGISTERED).
THE
Great Health Restorer.
RECOMMENDED BY THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION.
SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Sold Everywhere.
Silverstream Schnapps. Tucker & Co., Agents, Sydney.
Gilbey’s
The Bulletin
VoL 17,—N0. 854 J
[Saturday, June 27, 1896.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for by Post as a Newsnaner,


LITERARY NOTES.
Australia really begins to be literary.
Buzz-z-z! . . . the air is full of the
clamor of little bees hurrying whither the
new hive sits bright in morning sunshine.
Here comes one who has gathered honey
from orange-blossom and hibiscus in far
Eastern islands ; yonder booms another with
whose store lingers the heavy fragrance
hidden in tropical orchid and magnolia ; that
has pilfered sweets from the roses of a
quaint, old-fashioned Southern garden ; this
brings a breath of wattle from Wairee hill,
where great, grey plains roll to the craving
West. It is inexpressibly pleasant to stand
and listen to them all, and to welcome each
dusty new-comer struggling homewards with
his precious load tucked tight- Alas! the
metaphor falls : indeed, it was never a
Being erect upon two legs like Mr. Pickwick
- for queen-bees do not voyage forth for
h ,iy, and so much of our literary honey is
being won by busy queans far up the slopes
of Helicon.
« * * «
Louise Mack is the last of the little tribe
to make a little curtsey with a little book
her first. The Bulletin, indeed, has known
her before ; but, though The Bulletin is all
very well in its way, a book is different. The
writer for newspapers, even for magazines, is
still like the unpractised bather who paddles
half-timorously at “ the shallow end ” : the
writer of a book, even a little one, is like the
expert swimmer who poises body, holds
breath, and dives boldly into “the deep.”
Louise Mack has not gone very deep this
time—half a yard, perhaps ; but then it is
probable that the best diver—who may be
taken, for the sake of argument, as Sergeant
Parkinson, of the Sydney Amateur Swim-
ming Association—cannot say that he got to
the bottom of the baths the first time he
tried. And Louise Mack is much younger
than Sergeant Parkinson ; and not so tall, so
that she has further to go.
* * * *
The title of Louise Mack’s book (published
by T. Fisher Unwin) is “ The World is
Round; ” but it might as well have been
“The Universe is Flat ” for all the connec-
tion it has with the story. The book, in
fact, would be just as clever with any other
title. That it is clever is undeniable : it
shows some insight, and some force, and a
fine capacity for plain description and colored
satirical description, and a gimletty faculty
of observation which would pierce you through
and through though you lived in a Lyrtu—
which is exactly 27,597,901,440,846,512
miles away from Sydney, and not merely
27,597,901,440,846,504, as certain ignorant
astronomers would have you believe. If one
were Caliph for a space, it would be joyous
to bring all the Bores of Bagdad each by
each into the Presence, with an intimation
that their wise fame had reached the ears of
the Commander of the Faithful, and they
were required to state their well-considered
views about woman’s-suffrage, and to recite
their latest poems on Federation, and to
make a few remarks concerning that burning
question of the referendum. And on the
steps of the throne would be sitting a small,
quaint, frail figure with a soft, round child-
face and large blue baby-eyes, poring over the
6tory of Es-Sindibad of the Sea, and in in-
tervals of eloquence the Bore would come to
pat her head and enquire how she was
getting on in Sums. And at length the chief
chamberlain would give a signal, and the
little figure on the steps of the throne would
rise up and proceed, in the purest Persian,
to ... ! And the Bore, ah, where
would he be ? Ask of the winds that far
around with fragments strewed the rose-gar-
dens ! —as Mrs. Hemans beautifully puts it.
If one were but Caliph for a space !
* * * «
All the characters in the book are more or
less drawn from life—carved from the real
ham ; and the author generally cuts pretty
close to the knuckle. There is hardly a dull
line, or a weak line, or a line false in fact or
sentiment, anywhere to be found. All is
most real, and graphic, and convincing, and
interesting.
* * * *
But let Louise Mack speak for herself of
than pseudo-intellectual Sydney set, with its
Literary Societies, and its wearying-, unending
phases after the Theories of the Moment, its
ignorance, its Aides-de-camp, its Society Women,
its Lights of the Medical Profession, and above
all, the affability with which one member agrees
with another’s opinions.
For she thanks God “there are no literary
societies in the bush, no aides-de-camp to
rend us archaic papers on Horace ” (O, Mr.
G niton '.). And here is a piece of an evening
with some “rather clever” Sydney people:—
- Jean eain<- and carried the suckling away, and
Ids interlocutor sat alone, waiting for a vic-
ti>ii. Fate, in the shape of Jean . . . made
M"-grave known to her with ceremonious for-
mal ;ty.
“ Y r ou can talk books together,” wickedly.
“Mr. Musgrave loves reading,” to the girl;
“ Miss Pomedda is the secretary of the Woman’s
Literary Society,” to Musgrave. “Are you
fond of reading?” asked the secretary. Mus-
grave had rapidly decided how to talk to her.
To encourage her would be sinful.
“No,” he said. “I’m a Philistine.”
“Fancy ! Are you really? Don’t you read at
all?”
“ The newspapers and the serial stories in the
magazines and reviews of things. I find that
q lite enough, and the best way to improve your
n ind if you mix with literary people.”
“I always read the reviews of books,” she said
artably. “Then you know if a book’s good or
I ad.”
“Du you?” said Musgrave innocently. “I
didn’t know that before. Are you fond of read-
ing?”
“My two favorite pastimes are reading and
thin ing,” she said, with well-bred pensiveness.
“Good Lord,” said Musgrave under his
breath. . . .
They were clearing tables and ciiairs away from
one end of the room, where a lady Stood, assuming
a slightly theatrical attitude.
“•'he is going to recite,” said Musgrave’s
companion, watching interestedly.
The reciter stood for a minute with her hands
clasped loosely before, her, her head a little bent,
as if in acknowledgment o. tumultuous applause
from the sil. nt and embarrass, d au<;i, tic,.
Then she raised her head slowly, showed Ler
teeth, lifted one hand, and began.
“ The Patriot,” she announced.
A moment’s pause. Then
“It was roses, roses, all the way,” she called in
a loud voice, with a strong affected masculine
flavor about it.
And then an awkward thing happened to her.
She forgot what came next.
She stood there, pressing her under-lip hard
with her forefinger, and gazing agouisedly at Jean,
who was nearest to her, and vainly trying to beat
up the forgotten lines from her treacherous brain.
There was a dead pause. The people in the room,
who had just carefully turned their eyes away
from the painful spectacle of a drawing-room
reciter’s face, had now to look back again to find
the reason of this silence.
“This is too rich for anything,” said Musgrave
in a jubilant voice to his companion. She did not
hear him. Her lips were making violent gestures
to somebody across the room. Though no sounds
issued from them.
Nobody had the courage to speak the second
line of the broken poem. Some of them must have
known it, but nobody dared suggest the forgotten
cue. Everybody felt as if the voice that suggested
it would echo round the room for hours after.
At last, after what seemed an interminable
time of horror, the reciter’s hands fell clasped
again before her, and in a slightly different tone
from that of her last utterauce she began
straightway to declaim Calverley’s “Shelter.”
Sue had gone from the ken of ungentle men,
Yet scarce did I mourn for that;
For I knew she was safe in her own home then,
And the danger past, would appear again.
“For ’’ —impressively pausing a minute to allow
their smiles to accumulate She was a water-
rat.”
But everybody had been wrought to such a pitch
over “The Patriot” that they had not the spirit
even to smile now. They knew they ought to,
but they could not.
She sank into a chair, and smiled nervously at
the carpet. The murmured “Thank-you’s” fell
flatly on the air.
Musgrave turned.
“Did you ever in your life see anything so
ghastly? .... A woman who recites in
her friends’ drawing-rooms should certainly be
put to death.”
She turned her head, and looked at him with
eyes so horrified, astounded, and full of naive
wonder that such a man should dare to exist, that
he felt the color rising to his cheek.
“That lady is my sister,” she gasped. Then
she rose and crossed the room, and left him alone
in stricken silence.
O dove-cots of Corioli ! Let the Austral
Salon shiver to think what might have hap-
pened if Louise Mack’s lot had fallen in
Melbourne !
* * t 9
There is no plot to speak of in “ The
World is Round ” —two men and a woman ;
woman takes one ; poison takes t’other.
And the chapters strung on this thread are
disconnected enough to stand alone; the
climax gains nothing from them. One
sketch-chapter gives the impressions of a
bush-governess ;
As for the Bushies, they are adorable, the long,
shy, silent creatures, with their green and purple
fly-veils, their nervous, uneven walk, their kind,
pure, childish eyes, their atrocious “yairs,”
“sniike,” “ niice diay,” their tenderness to
women and dumb aii'imils, their primeval
patriotism, their sturdy democracy. And the
young Bushies, the boys scarcely out of their teens
with their beards, and their home-made suits,
puce neckties, husky voices, hair-oil, pumps (as
they call their evening shoes), their hidden hoard
of unconscious sentiment, their reverence for
Rolf Boldrewood. Their bitter contempt for that
profound and scurrilous egoist, Max O’Rell-the
same Max who fattened on their land with a ready
continental smile, and went away and gave the
world a string of frothy sarcasms about their tea-
drinking and meat-eating and pitiable drunken-
ness and antecedents, their deep and undying love
for Gordon’s “Sick Stockrider,” and “How we
beat the Favorite.” I regard them all tenderly,
and never grow tired of watching them.
It may be that their conversation is at first a
little dijfficile. Here is a specimen of one that took
place the night after I arrived.
Bushie ; Do you like the country ?
Me : Well, I have hardly been here long enough
to know.
Bushie : Aeour [I don’t know if I have spelt it
quite correctly.]
Me : I am sure I shall like it, though ; every-
thing is so different from Sydney, and I was
deadly tired of Sydney.
Bushie : Aeour.
Me (desperately): I suppose you have been to
Sydney ?
Bushie; Yairs. [Pause.]
Bushie : Do you liike- horses?
Me : Oil, I love them.
Bushie : Can you ride?
Me : Well, I can canter all the way.
Bushie : Ca-antering is very ni-ice.
Me : Trotting is so~er —heavy.
Bushie: Yairs.
Me : I think most people prefer cantering, don’t
you ?
Bushie : Yairs.
Me : Which do you like best ?
Bushie ; Trotting.
Me (surprised): Do you ? oh, well, I would
even trot if I could be on horseback as often as I
liked. You see, I very seldom have a chance of
riding in Sydney. [He shuffles his eyes from one
foot to the other]. I live at Paddington. [He
lets them raise themselves as high as his hands].
And it would be terribly expensive to keep a
horse there. You don’t see many good horses in
Sydney [brings thein-wp to my face, at once drops
them, and looks away under the far chair], except
rac-rs, out walking with their jockeys.
Bushie: Aeour.
He repeats the eye-drill again and again, but
listens attentively to every word I say. . . .
The odor of undiluted gum-trees was strong in
the Bushie’s conversation ; no forced essences
tampered with its native perfume, so it was en-
joyable and fresh, and bush-like and slow.
Tin- Bush girls are shy, clever, wonderfully nen
and domesticated, and coiisnm-d with ambitions
which they never speak of. One of flic things
that struck mu most about them is their intense
fervent desire to improve their minds. 1 hey w
practise painstakingly day alter day tor years ->>
years, with no'further music lessons than the
elementary ones from a hard-worked mother.
Patiently they wait their chance, winch comes
sometimes in the shape of a musical governess on
an adjoining station, who is perhaps induct >1 to
give them a lesson once a month. llow t ie.y
rev el in that! And their reading is just as pains-
tako r and conscientious. History is the specia.
study to which they devote themselves and
between ourselves, Jean dear, if you and 1 were
put through the mill of knowledge of this parti-
cular subject with them, we would come out soine_
where at the bitter end. Or I, at any rate. It
you want to know anything, never ask a graduate.
Francis Adams notes in bush girls the
same intense yearning for culture. And
hut space shortens.
* * * *
Charles Whibley, a man with a spirited
English style and a hue knowledge of last-
century English literature, has a note in
April New Review on Wheatley’s new edi-
tion of Pepys’s Diary, which, he says, will
utterly extinguish (for intelligent people)
Braybrooke’s well-bowdierised edition. Then,
after the fashion of Macaulay and the dex-
terous Capuchins, the commentator hangs
his sermon on the peg :
A lust of being and moving, of exercising his
senses to their utmost, governed Pepys’s existence.
Unnumbered and innumerable are his crowded
hou'-s of glorious life. The man who “is with
child to see any strange thing,” is neither cynic
nor Philistine. Nothing came amiss to him. He
was as pleased with Sir George Ent’s discourse
upon “Respiration” as he was with the peer-
less beauty of Lady Castlemaine. Only he must
always he doing, or hearing, or seeing some new
thing. To-day he is singing with Knipp, and
listening with a hungry ear to the praise of his
famous song, Beauty, Retire ; to-morrow he is dis-
cussing with Dr. Whistler whether masts should
he kept dry or damp. Now he goes to Wills's to
meet “ Dryden the poet (I knew at Cambridge) ’;
now he is chaffering for cloves with some poor
seaman in a “ blind alehouse.” And all the while
he is drinking in life at its abundant source. His
zest is almost too violent, and you wonde how he
could have sustained, thiough many years of suf-
fering, this ferocious energy of enjoyment; how he
remained firm in this dogged determination to
miss no minute of lSpoing time. But to his indus-
try no transition seemed abrupt : he turned from
his mistress to his accounts without weariness or
regret, and no sooner had he found an end of his
figures than he was ready to play again with all
the spi- it of a released schoolboy. His philosophy
was the most arrogant that ever a man about
town imagined. “Read every book,” he said in
effect, “ see every play, empty every wine-cup,
kiss every woman.” And when he died, in all
piety he might have Ov-ned that he never missed
an opportunity. Alexander conquered the world
but Pepys, with a keener, more selfish under-:
standing of life, conquered a world for every sense.
He could not take a boat without singing to the
“ skuller he could not meet a Dutch bellman
without, taking his clapper in his hand, without
noting that “it is just like the clapper that our
boys frighten the bit ds away from the corn with
in summer-time in England.”
• * • •
Nor was it part of Pepys’s creed to put off till to-
morrow what might be enjoyed to-day. His was
the Epicureanism of Horace. “ Carpe Diem'' he
shouted in his joyous voice. “I do indulge my-
self a little the more in pleasure,” said he by way
of excuse to himself, “knowing that this is the
proper age of my life to do it; and out of my
observation that most men that do thrive in the
world, do forget to take pleasure during the time
that they a- e getting their estate, but reserve
that till they have got one, and then it is too late
for them 10 enjoy it with any pleasure.” So
Pepys let not an hour pass unchallenged, and by a
youth of pleasure prepared an old age of happi-
ness. He loved the amenities of life : art, music,
a new coat, the songs of birds, the river, the open
air were his perpetual delight. But before all
things he loved a pretty woman. At the outset
he was hut a modest wooer. He once—it was on
his return from Debt—sat side by side with “a
pretty sober Dutch lass,” and “ I could not fasten
any discourse upon her,” he declares with his
bland confession of failure. During the same
journey to Holland he found “ a pretty Dutch
woman in bed alone,’ and, “though he had a
month’s mind, he had not the boldness to go to
her.” But in a years space his boldness was
invincible.
“Musique and women,” said the jolly old
chap, “ I cannot but give way to whatever
my business is.” And the ladies seem to
have liked him quite as well as he liked „he
ladies. Doubtless the good God arranges it
so.
* * * •
There is more than a touch of the Pepysian
spirit in “ Machete,” who sends The Bulle-
tin this not quite perfect ballade of
Press no ices of the English edition of
“The Man Iron. Snowy River” are beginning
to come to hand, Mid are uniformly favorable
so far The Glasgow Herald says that the
Banjo’s “ ballads, especially the racing ones,
are full of such go that the mere reading
makes the blood tingle.’ lie critic, how-
ever, doesn’t quite grasp the rationale, of
brumby-hunting. He says
The leading ballad is descriptive of a sort of
steeplechase, which includes mountain-steeps of
which we are ignorant in this country. All the
crack horses and riders are gathered at the station.
Amongst the rest is a stripling cn a small and
weedy beast. This is the man from Snowy
River.” But the youngster and his horse are so
unlikely a couple that it is with the Jfa-
culty he is allowed to join m the race. Nobody
expects that he will be really m the running.
But the result proves otherwise. Ihe weedy
beast and his rider, who ought to have broken
their necks at a dozen places in the course, actu-
ally beat the whole field.
This is well-meant, anyway. And London
Times thinks that Paterson “ at his best
compares not unfavorably with the author of
‘Barrack-Room Ballads,’” which is a good
big thing to say. Most of the reviewers lay
proper stress on the horsey character of the
verses —which is as it should be, no doubt.
Elsewhere Pegasus is a nondescript : in Aus-
tralia he is reatty a horse, and you’ll gener-
ally find him in the saddling-paddock.
* * * *
And in this fashion speaks the Edinburgh
Scotsman, which, since Russell’s glorious
day, has generally deserved its reputation of
being the best literary authority in Scot-
land :
The verse of Mr. Paterson is not so serious a
thing as Lindsay Gordon’s. It has not the same
impetuous sweep, the same glory of mere motion.
But it has a good “ go ” of its own, and it covers
a much wider range than the concentrated view
of the older poet. It has the saving grace of
humor ; and the work has the peculiarly satis-
fying quality of bearing on its uwn face a
warrant of its fidelity to the life it describes. . .
And albeit Mr. Paterson is not above vivifying
the Scot by representing him to be fond of his
whist y and by writing a villainously bad dialect
of Scotch that is worse than the worst whisky
ever fabricated for export to the colonies, his book
will have a hearty welcome here from all who
value poetry that is racy of the soil that produced
it. The more ambitious poets of Australia have
erred in trying to write as sublimely as the best of
our home poets. But a book like this (though as
absolute poetry it ranks in the same class with Mr.
Kipling’s ballads) is worth a dozer of the aspiring,
idealistic sort, since it has a deal of real laughter
and a dash of real tears in its composition.
But perhaps the warmest praise of “The
Banjo ” is implied by the Scottish gentle-
man who, in a paper called Scottish Nights
Entertainments, translates “The Man from
Snowy River ” into North-of-Tweed dialect
—and puts his name to it.
• * * *
J. C. Neild—who is not the worst poet in
Australia—begins to feel the inconveniences
of fame. Justin McCarthy relates how, in
1868, after the British success in the
Abyssinian war, Disraeli declared that Napier
had “hoisted the standard of St. George on
the mountains of Rasselas.” “All England,”
says McCarthy, “ smiled at the mountains of
Rasselas. The idea that Johnson had in his
mind the very Abyssinia of geography and of
history when he described his Happy Yalley,
was in itself trying to gravity. . . Ever
since that time, when the expedition to
Abyssinia is mentioned in any company, a
smile steals over some faces, and more than
one voice is heard to murmur an allusion to
the mountains of Rasselas.” If it may be
said without offence to the memory of
Disraeli, Neild is somewhat in Dizzy’s pre-
dicament. He no sooner appears in a mixed
company nowadays than tragic arms are
uplifted, and many tragic voices recite his
immortal line—
Eftsoons the Nocent Waterspout will rise !
The Bulletin hereby declares the banns of
marriage between the Nocent Waterspout
and the Mountains of Rasselas ; and if any
person can show just cause or impediment
why these two should not be united in the
bonds of holy matrimony, it calls upon him
or her to step forward, or hereafter forever
hold his or her peace.
* * * *
And, by the way, though the verbal
accuracy of the quoted formula is not guar-
anteed, the English language is badly in
need of a demonstrative and a personal
pronoun of common gender to abolish the
awkward alternative phrases “his or hers,”
‘‘he or she,” “him or her.” (The New
oman ought to invert the order—it would
be so much more consistent with her con-
text—-though it doesn’t appear she has
thought of doing so thus far.) If some cul-
tured authority would float “se,” “sis,”
and “ sim or better combinations—on the
English-speaking market, there should be
enough common-sense among writers and
readers to make success certain.
•
Itis printed that a London bookseller—West
End doubtless—told an author the other
day that there is a difficulty in disposing of
books with We tities. Ladies especially
JrVfe ° f askni s for a book the title of
rightly e ThJ e K n °L SU n e ’ f they can pronounce
hnnk 1 , i-i 1<? J< j okse ber cited the title of a
wit-li r f le iUIT lor be was then conversing
. K Lt contamed a dissyllable which
!2 h ! l ; e » pro lJ nounced ebher as long “a” or
have enie i OUSK^e red the book would
not ex,i G ed t bnsker sale ha d the doubt
book sell et f k w °uld shock that London
into an T i r° e Stoufc bterary ladies sail
assßtaml ' rab^- shop and breathe mto th «
rf" S ‘Letters from ’Ell’”
chaneron kl8 P er loud enough tu
unaperone an earthquake.
NELLY GWYN.
In the Green Park-and saw and heard a very familiar
discourse between the King and mistress Nelly as they
call that impudent comedian. I was heartily sorrv at
this scene.— John Evelyn, his Diary. '
Since you, austere and godly man,
Glowered dark upon the child of sin
As down the Garden path she ran,
Her Sovereign’s easy heart to win—
The hungry years have gathered in
The critic and the courtesan,
John Evelyn and Nelly Gwyn,
“That Impudent Comedian.’”
Oh, stark and grim-browed Puritan !
Was there within your heart no kin
To the warm flood that roseate ran
Beneath the ivory of her skin ’
Her hair like gold that fairies spin—
Was that in vain to stay the ban
You straightway laid on Nelly Gwyn?—
“That Impudent Comedian.”
Yet those blue eyes that turned to scan
Your figure ominous and thin
With their dear magic could trepan
Ihe wild court that with madcap din
I ought, plumed, and ruffled all to win
Oer clicking dice and clinking can ’
A roguish smile from Nelly Gwyn ’
“ That Impudent Comedian.
Your tale, like old wine long in bin
Lives yet our fancies’ fires to fan*
Light lie the earth on Nelly Gwyn
“That Impudent Comedian ! ” ’


Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No hou'Se should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.” .... nfl
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and clnst without
“ I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this "i. 'lioi'e for about
10 days he was perfectly, cured. — J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S.W.”
“ We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. -Sigmd
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, a. d
59 other lending residents. ;
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W- Gr. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes. 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
cancer' and tumours.
c
A Wonderful and Natural Remedy
Cancers and Tumours.
Pamphlet on the Subject post free on receipt of 4d.
in Stamps. References.
Apply: A. MKEE <Sc CO.,
City Medical Hall, Adelaide-st., BRISBANE.
tar - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF Y(VU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
I
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, in
vous Diseases, Registered in England and the Colonics
as a Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thii’ty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book, bend
Six Penny Stamps at once. Write your case
freely and confidentially. The charge of
ONE POUND ONLY is made by Dr.
Wallace for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, Clboilt ffCttiflfJ IMctl i ICll .
mO'bid fancies eradicated, and the futuie
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If von suffer from any, or inajiy, of the following
sj mptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: Depression of spirits, bashfulnes., in-
ahiliiy to look frankly into the ey.s of another, head-
ache hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ear?,'weak memory, forgetting dates, persons names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste or smeil sunken
eves pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of hack, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
“ MARKS’S ”
Ammoniated Egg Julep
(SHAMPOO WASH?,
CLEANSES the Scalp from SCURF, and is
Preservative for the HAIR. 2,6 and 4,6 per Bottle.
SOLE AGENT : _A_. _A_. IMI-A.IE2,KS,
Hairdresser,
19 HUNTER STREET, SIDNEY.
Dr. George On Lee ,
CHINESE DOCTOR,
23 Carlton Terrace, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
All persons suffering from any in o te ™t’
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have themdisp .sea
by medicine without cutting ; also cures b«l e> es nra,
skin diseases, diphtheria and piles. He as . J
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and it fon »
patients as to an ultimate cure or othe a •
practised 2(5 years in Sydney. Cunsultation fee, 1 •
Sore Throat and Diphtheria Powders sent pei Pos
receipt of 11s.
Medical.
Jh-.SI’EETt.
29 Y ork Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Box 920. Registered and Qualified in N.S. W.
TTAVING devoted 24 years to the research and study
of the SPECIAL CHRONIC NERVOUS and SKIN
AFFECTIONS of Men and Women, is now prepared to
treat sufferers from the above troubles with an absolute
certainty of success or forfeit £2OO in all guaranteed
cases. His success has been so extraordinary, both with
male and female, that it has induced many miserable and
unqualified imitators to attempt to follow his tracks, but
the public are hereby warned that his golden remedies
can be obtained only at the above address. Consultation
Free. Correspondence invited.
Female Fills, certainties, ss, 10s, and £1
( extra strong).
29 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Sjpeer’s invaluable Female Remedies are
always Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box 920. 29 York Street* Sydney.
mmmj, 1
m
m
%
Will Cure
WHEN
Medicine Fails.
We send onr Electric
Belts to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, HOW-
EVER POOR, need be with-
out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address-
Dr* Damont Electric Belt Co M
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
nxr o
a. y.
Cure,
3NT o
electro
belt
ri'HlS is ttie ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the vvearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will p -rmanently cure
•You If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
F NOTICE.— Before purchasing, we pref er th aty ows h ou I d
caii and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list fpost free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers 63 Elizabeth Street SYDNEY.
MUVJV 11 001 >.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AXD VIGOR RESTORbt
In Four ll 'ceks by lhe use of
sd
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedenttd success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
n generating all the important elements of the human Ji ame.
In cases of 12s, or four Quantities in one for 06s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addi essea
mV Aaentsfor Austr alasia—Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &0o., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygiene, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PlUJ.'Hl’TLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
J.
SOLD in PARIS bv
F E Ft Ft E
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
5,000
PRINTED PRESCRIPTIONS
to be GIVEN AWAY to those who are
Suffering from NERVOUS WEAKNESS. Any
chemist can prepare the medicine. The PRESCRIPTION
is printed in plain English. Sufferers will know exactly
what they are taking. Address, with stamp for reply, to
“Medicus,” G.P.O., SYDNEY.
free
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
££ «
AGENCY, P.O. Box 347, Sydney.
French Safety Pills.
H/r AKE life a pleasure and existence a joy. They are a
M. certain and speedy cure for all Bilious and Nervous
Disorders, such as Sick Headache, Constipation, Red Nose,
Wind Tired Feeling, Weak Stomach, Indigestion, Female
Ailments, Toothache, Melancholy, Kidney Disorders, etc.
Good for both sexes-Children and AduHs. Boxposted,
6d Sold only by Monsieur HAUTMONT,
R M.D., Victoria-street, NORTH MELBOURNE.
LOGO POISON
A SPECIALTY &
or Tertiary BLOOD POISON per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days, you can
be treated at borne for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
here we will contract to pay railroad and
steamship fare and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge if we fail to cure. If you have taken
mercury, iodide potash, and still have aches
and pain?. Mucous Patches in the mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots, TJI-
- on afy part of the body. Hair or Eyebrow
f illing out, it is this Secondary BCOOII POI-
SON we guarantee to cure. We solicit the most
«W!nate cases and challenge the world for
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ill., u. s.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 E]izabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS k SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
dbbilit y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.*’ If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR- GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STKEET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO ALL
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Leura, Saturday, June 27, Noon,
Barrabool, Tuesday, June 30, 5 p.m
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Leura, Saturday, June 27, Noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Bunnyong, Tuesday, July 7, 5 p.tn.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
ROCKHAMPTON
[Tyrian, Saturday, June 27, 2 p.m.
| Bunnyong, Tuesday, June 30, 5 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, June 27, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 4, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CLICK EXT LAKES TO ALL I’OKTS
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices —67 York-street, between King & Barrack streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
Express Passenger Service to and from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, QUEENS-
LAND, and WEST AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO. LTD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE!.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £66 to £67 10s.
Combination Ticket, £3l 19s. 7d. to .£5B 14s. 2d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N Z Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; Harrold Bros., Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N.
Co., Brisbane.
Medical.
mu
PRESCRIPTIONS
Are to be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE ” for the Speedy Cure of Nerv-
ousness, Debility, Lost Manhood, and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book
will be sent Free, sealed for Six Penny Stamps.
Address— _ . __
S- WAED AND CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter Street, Sydney.
American Remedy Depot,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Men
-A.11
AND
Women
Should write to us for full particulars of our American
Specific Remedies. Don’t delay. Write at once. It
may save you hundreds of pounds. Address—
AMERICAN REMEDY DEPOT,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
GOOD NEWS !
29 YORK STREET,
Wynyard Square, SYDNEY.
LADIES and GENTLEMEN,
In view of the present depression, I have decided
to Reduce all Tees to Half-Price. This will
afford an opportunity for those of slender means
to avail themselves of my services as a Specialist.
I am the Highest Legally Qualified Specialist
in Australasia, and am therefore prepared to
treat every case which I undertake with confidence
and success, and, if necessary, to give a Stamped
Guarantee to that effect or forfeit <£2C0. My
treatment of
NERVOUSNESS and DEBILITY
has been most successful in all parts of the world,
and I have restored thousands of helpless, miser-
able mortals to renewed manhood and vigor. The
enormous number of testimonials that I have bear
witness to the splendid cures which I have effected
in the treatment of the special and private diseases
of men and women. Anyone applying to me will
receive my honest opinion free of all charges, and
I will send my new pamphlet post free.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
T. COLE-WRIGHT,
M.D., M.Ch., L.M., etc.
P.S. — Dr. Cole - Wright’s celebrated
FEMALE TABLET for IRREGULARITIES,
safe" and certain, 10s. and =£1 per box (extra
strong). This, perhaps, is the most valuable
boon ever offered to the ladies of Australia.
Dr. COLE-IVBIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write-
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
Box 979 G.P.O., Sydney.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.


PPor thing ton Pumping Engine Company ,
IP
_r
= !^?-"g
* —s-A
WORTHINGTON TRIPLE EXPANSION SURFACE
C3NDENSING PUMPING ENGINE.
(HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE)
WORTHI NGTON
32 Clarence St.,
fs
SYDNEY.
TRADE MARIU
Victorian Agency—47s Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
Are the R<*og„i,ed Standard ot PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the Worh
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
IRRIGATION
SINKING
MINING
CREAMERIES
SUITABLE FOR
GARDEN SUPPLIES
WOOL SCOURING
WOOL DUMPING
WATER SUPPLIES
SEWERAGE
MARINE
tank FILLING
BOILER FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
S.
f f «£XC^r
rpilE E. C. JOHNSTON SERE- EASTER
-L TV ERIC AT Oil & STRAINER PATENT.
Your troubles are ended in the kitchen at last, for by
using this baster over game, poultry, and all roast joints,
the natural juices are kept intact, and a result attained
that will astonish the greatest epicure. Inexpensive,
easily cleansed, durable, and REQUIRES NO WATCHING.
AT ALL IRONMONGERS.
The baster fits inside the baking dish—any size made to
st. FOR ALL OVENS TO ORDER. Stock sizes-
-0 1 2 3 4 N.B. —Keep the holes in
?/- 2/6 ; 3/- ; 36 ; 4 - both tins clear. Address :
The MANAGER, BASTER FACTORY,
No. 9 Addison-road, Marrickville.
Medical.
MANHOOD RESTORED l
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN!
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore yon to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1875.]
' £ A Golden Shanty.”
4
BOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Illustrated Marriage Guide.
A FULL EXPLANATION of the ORGANS OF LIFE
and GENERATION IN MANKIND
Intended for the married, or those intending
Duties, to which is added a J 8
COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE
"«■>«»«
INGS, b, LAFAYETTE M. BYE^°S.d"“"p
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Decameron, illustrated, Ss. ’ ’
Hush for the Spoil, Nana, Human Brutes, genuine
editions, by Zola, Is 6d ; post, 2s. Send for new list.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d ;
send for pamphlet giving full contents gratis.
Romance of A Fair Girl's Bathroom, price, Is
6d ; post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Rose Foster, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
The Soiled Dove, post free, Is 6d.
Skittles : Her Adventures, post free, Is 6d.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and as it Should
Be. by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready-made for every occasion •
public speaking made easy, Is 6d.
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics, without a master,
post free Is. The Lover’s Letter Writer, post free Is!
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
l°S‘Z L /Z E O°S fi* >• M port
Educate One’s Self Illustra| l ed° LMAS ( T ? R ’ or How T 0
Modern Etiquette -Par- iptl^ rA,?°i J ree T l 8 6d ’
Visiting, Introductions w hh : ourts hip. Love, Dress
Tub Silent Friend’ b,Dr" B h &0^ 8 M - poBt free -
private book, Is 6d. ’ 3 Dr ’ Lamartll 'e, illustrated
Card Tricks, bv Dr nim'.r „
ins all the tricks and decent o ns with W W ? rk - Contai '"
simplified, for home and .tf lfc cards explained,
free, Is 3d. ‘ d publ, ° amusement, Is ; pos[
Lm efine^ R pr T ic°e!i^ AUTy R «™ALED-G u ide to Female
nhealth A and G di E e«e IV ?ro ( !ff?’ thciruBe and a '*use,
the treatment of all °' d wi,h
private use, by Dr. F. Veyyman ’ 8
SWSti— ""-ftSatfSSSW
s.S,XiS““ K r ;dS“ £rrV" 8 “»'
limiting family. Post free Is 2d ' * 6St lnforlua tion,
■MSS.** 1 - «“**• •« ohumote.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. MUSIC OP ALL KINDS
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTs!
SEND STAMP FOB OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
16 PARK sStEM. SSSS?*
TALES OF
THE CONVICT SYSTEM
] usiness AnnouncGineiits.
memory culture.
l»rof. Loisetle’s System of Assimilative
Memory.
. SYSTEM by which the memory can be trained to re-
A produce Facts, Quotations, Poetry, and all the Daily
Occurrences of Life with certainty. Renders success in
examination sure. Oral lectures now being given in
Srdnev. Can he l a'nt also by correspondence. Founded
sound scientific principles. Apply Prof. A. LOISETTE,
Box Q.P.O., SYDNEY.
Try ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF - MEASUREMENT SYSTEM
For ladies, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEABOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
0/
fV
B
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating whatsizeyou generally take,
what are your peculiarities —a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Catalogue and Treatise on the Human Foot, post free.
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT
A Guinea’s Worth
—FOR —
13s. 6d.
Cut this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments & Remittance of 13s.
t3d., when you will have
mailed to you,post free
apairofthose French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow
or wide
toes. <
/tills
/ Coupon
/Guinea
OAIMORAL
“For comfort, fit and wear your boots TAKE THE
CAKE.”—J. HYLAND, Postmaster, Barcaldine, Queens-
land. Feb. 11,1896.
“The boots you made to my order have given entire
satisfaction.”—S. NORTH, A.J.S. Bank, Scone, New
South Wales. 17/1/96.
“You have given every satisfaction in the execution of
all my orders for boots and shoes.” —(Mrs.) EVA BALL,
79 Collins-street, Hobart, Tasmania.
“My boots fit splendidly. I am well pleased with
them.”—Mrs. JAMES WATSON, Maharatta, Bombala,
N.S.W. March 15, 1896.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques(ls.). Note the address:
The Intercolonial Foot Costume Manufactory
T. E. ELLIS, Manager,
633 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY;
And at Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
GRINDING
cm
a op
PLEASUf£ TaUS S
KROPP
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades.
REAL GERMAN HOLLO GROUND
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garrett
& Co., London, W.
RAZOR
Hotels.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar ... Proprietor.
SALISBURY HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
l*vivate Boarding Establishment.
(Within Three Minutes of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONfor Visitors. SPECIAL
1 ERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
nid Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
■■■■ Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &*
Tankard’s Family Hotel,
Lonsdale Street
(next Law Courts),
-a
«feS55
''"'rtorEk
»-•
l&
-■- *
i Ui
ss&n
MELBOURNE.
First-class BOARD and
RESIDENCE, £1 per week (Single Room); 4s. daily.
W. NEALE, Manager.
■P HII w> I r l>S£ ? ,TEMPERANCE HOTEL,
Lonsdale-street (near (Jueen-street),
MtIIUHUNK.
—from 1^ cco ' umodat '°n for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
troin 18s. per week upwards.
SWAGMAN : "Could yer give us a pipe of tobacco, mate?”
HORSEMAN: “Yes. I can give you some that was made in America. It’s CAMERON’S TWO SEAS—the best
smoke in the world!”
SWAGMAN : “My oath, it’s good. I’ve bin tryin’ to get it for years.”


T-O O K !
BEFORE YOU
T. E A F?
When you go out shopping, consider, think
of the money in your pocket, and take account
of the many stores whose various attractions
are laid before you. There is A, with temp-
tation in the form of a pretty show ; there is
B, whose wiles are innumerable ; and C,
who says that he is the man for your money ;
and so on, throughout a list as long as
(xeorge-street, each smiling dealer has some-
thing to say and to offer.
Please Pause!
Hearken not to the song of the syren, sing
she ever so sweetly ; heed not the voice of
the charmer, charm he never so wisely.
Your pocket’s concerned ; and there are
pirates about. As the poet pertinently puts
it: “ There be land-sharks and water-
sharks,” and it is for you to see that your
dealings are with none of these voracious
monsters. Take warning in time, for it will
be no use when the new taxes come round—
and the tax-gatherer won’t take no for an
answer—for you to plead : There would have
been enough and to spare had I been wise
enough to
Buy Everything
AT
ANTHONY HORDERN’S,
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
FOR
BEAUTIFUL HAIR
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
/
r
RESTORES COLOR,
PROMOTES
Luxuriant Growth,
Keeps the scalp
cool, moist, healthy,
and free from dan-
druff. It is the
best dressing n
the world, and is
perfectly harmless.
Those desiring to
retain the youthful
appearance of the
liair to
an ad-
vanced
period
of life
s li o u Id
use
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
igF= Beware of cheap imitations. The name
jCyer —is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each bottle.
%
WICK RECUL.«TOR
SCALE ON? FIFTH
BRANDT'S
“ANTI-CANDLE.”
A Kerosene Candle with New Light
Spreader. For Candlesticks and Carriage
Lamps. Entirely supersedes the ordinary
candle. 110 HOURS’ LIGHT at a COST
of ONE PENNY. Prices—ls 6d and 2s
6d. Postage 4d per pair extra. Last
for years.
Kerosene Gas Stove and
Cooking Apparatus.
No wick, no Smell, Atmospheric Burner :
one flame does 6 operations same time.
From 31 6. Send for Catalogue.
65 per cent. CHEAPER THAN GAS.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lampmakers and Importers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THE EMELTING COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Go., Limited).
ADDRESS:
Head Office—s 6 Margaret-st., Sydney.
mHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
1 Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in operation
by AUGUST 1896, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
An ASSAY OFFICE and LABORATORY have been
opened at the Head Office in Sydney, and most com-
modious Assay Offices and Laboratories are now in
course of erection at the works, which will be equippea
in the most Modern Style, at both of which establish-
ments samples of ores of all classes will be tested tor
the guidance of those not familiar with the value ot
sanm.
Treatment of base refractory ores of low grade a
speciality.
LOMBARDIA,
the great pile specific
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
Before trying other so-called Remedies you
should ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a
Pot of Lombardia, and take no other. Only one
Trial is asked.
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
F. McDONALD, Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
sdf
Jobo Hooter’s
-“Five Shops” Sals-
Having bought the following well known and old-estab-
lished businesses, I AM HOLDING A SALE, and allowing
a DISCOUNT of
Four Shillings in the Pound
OFF EVERY ARTICLE.
A Truly Magnificent Stock of Men’s Mercery and Hosiery.
Country Patrons will kindly note that I allow NOTHING
to interfere with the wishes and esteemed orders of friends in
the Country Districts. Samples are sent (when possible), and
all Orders are filled with the utmost Care and Promptitude
under my own Personal Supervision.
Send me a Postal Note for <£l, and say what goods you
want, and see what you will get for your money.
The Five Shops are as follows :
1. E. C. Eley’s, King-street,
opp. Daily Telegraph
office.
2. E. C. Eley’s, Hunter-st.,
opposite Turner & Hen-
derson’s.
3. E. 0. Eley’s, 390 a Goorge-
st.,next Denison House.
4. Smith and Mannell’s,
George-st., one door from
Hunter-st.
5. E. P. Morton’s, corner of
Strand Arcade and Pitt-
street.
At No. 4 —late Smith and Mannell’s —I have a Beautiful Stock of MASONIC JEWELLERY,
REGALIAS, APRONS, etc. Everything is marked in Plain Figures at all FIVE
ESTABLISHMENTS.
JOHN HUNTER,
Positively the Best Dressing
EDWiARDS^AIR
.(
v/m™
M
C>
ee* *1
FOR
PREERVING Sc BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“H ARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Phj sicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C.
Australian Hair Preserver.
Those who use it will never
become Bald.
* * *
It entirely removes Dandruff.
* * *
It promotes the Growth of the
Hair.
* * *
Ladies will find it a perfect
boon ; it is not a dye —it
is not sticky or greasy.
One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
r
m
This pure and excellent
remedy is now under Vice-
Regal patronage, and is used
by leading ladies of the colony
with most gratifying results.
If not procurable from your Chemist or Storekeeper, SAMPLE BOTTLE will be sent to you on
receipt of 3/6 in Money Order or Stamps. Testimonials from well-known citizens forwarded on
application to j CURT IN, Sole Agent, 84 Market Street, SYDNEY.
THE GOLD KING AMALGAMATOR.
-r-
-£ V
No. 0 Hand-power ; Capacity, J-ton per Hour; Shipping weight, 2501 b.
Freight to Sydney, =£l. Price free on board steamer at San Francisco, £4:B,
No. 1, for 5-head stamps ; price f.o.b steamer San Francisco, £B9.
HUNDREDS OF THESE MACHINES
Working in California alone saves everything capable of amalgamation, either
from Batteries, Old Tailings, Black or Beach Sands, etc.
No Battery should
be without one.
&3T Send for Illustrated
Pamphlets with details
of these machines; also of
A Pump accompanies this size ; works with machine.
. Mcrrall’s WoijdcrfGl HydraGlic QGartz Mill. .
The Fastest Crusher in the World.
A. G. MITCHELL & CO., H 8 The Strand, SYDNEY
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES.
RELIEF
from
COUGH
HAYMAN’S
IN
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Cous>-li.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prep?vr<->«1 only toy A. HAYMAN & Co., London. Price Is. 1 \d. and 2s. OU.
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“WHEN WOMEN’S WRONGS ARE
RIGHTED.”
When women’s wrongs are righted
Will men’s hearts still be blighted ?
When counsel smart, without a heart,
And judges fair, with faded hair,
And wigs, and wizened faces,
And spinsters bold, and bald and old,
Try breach-of-promise cases?
Will Love’s sweet troth be plighted
With coyness—still invited ?
When maidens prim, but no more trim,
And matrons cold, of years untold,
Two chins and double faces ;
With awesome air and vacant stare,
Try complicated cases ?
JVow women’s wrongs are righted,
Their troths are never plighted ;
They seldom flirt or wear a skirt,
They want no “ spoons ” but pantaloons,
And men are coy and just their toy—
And women’s wrongs are righted,
Men’s hearts no more are blighted.
ZETA.
“AN UNSET SONG.”
When thou shalt hear the west wind, cold and
drear,
Know, all my love doth whisper to thine ear !
Sere leaves will fall and murmur, yet
I cannot e’er forget—ah, no ! I cannot e’er forget.
Thy heart forgets ; my words of yore
All unremembered be;
Yet evermore, for evermore,
I weep in vain for thee, my life doth weep for
thee.
My life to meet with thine no more,
To meet with thine no more !
When thou shalt hear the sobbing of the sea,
Know, all the anguish in my memory
The moaning tides will tell thee ! Yet
I cannot e’er forget—ah, no ! I cannot e’er forget.
Oh, while my eyes have bitter tears
Till they no more may see,
For evermore long darkened years
Those tears shall fall for thee, my life shall weep
for thee.
My life to meet with thine no more,
To meet with thine no more !
A. W. STEWART.
THE AUCTION.
Here she stands, a peerless beauty, child of freak
and fashion,
Reared to meet the Marriage Market, fraught
with pulsing passion;
Never form more softly graceful rose on fairy
pinions,
Never goddess stepped more stately, high in
Jove’s dominions.
Hyacinthine locks that ripple, lips with love
a-tremble,
Dimpling chin and cheek of rosebud, blushes that
dissemble;
Smiles that burst like light upon you, sweetly and
serenely,
Ivory teeth that gleam and glisten, head erect
and queenly.
Dress the maid in costume fitting; deck her out
with laces;
Let the dainty darling trip it with her dainty
paces ;
Let her cast her subtle glamour like a goddess
o’er us;
Let her sweep her swanlike glories in a train
before us.
“Heart”—you say—“a heart she’s wanting.”
Well, we’ll see about one—
Never mind ! The darling’s better —better far
without one ;
Lead her to the mart, ye minions—Marriage mars
or makes her:
Sale commences — Going, going—gone 1 Sir Midas
takes her l
N.Q.
P. LUFTIG.
QUIBBLES—IN QUATRAINS.
The world is wide ! Its vastness is a curse
To those who’d travel on an empty purse ;
But, flying from a dun, or angry wife,
You’ll find its narrowness will plague you worse !
The world is narrow ! So the tourist says,
Who boasts of “ round the earth in sixty days.”
How wide it is in sympathy and love
They cannot know who tread these hackneyed
ways.
The world is narrow ; but it never mars
His flight, whose soul can soar beyond the stars.
The world is wide ; but, in its free expanse,
The soulless boor feels bound by prison bars !
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
DISARMED.
A virgin prayed : “ God keep me good,
Watch and protect my mother’s child.”
Invisible the devil stood
Beside the kneeling form, and smiled
To see the warm flush tinge her face
And neck ; a sweet, unholy sight,
That danger-signal of disgrace
Glowing against her bed-robe white !
She wrung her hands with fervor wild —
“ God keep megood.” The tempter smiled.
The devil saw her eyes upraised
Shine saintly in the cold moonray,
And, as he cynically gazed,
He heard the virgin softly pray—
“ God bless dear Jack; I love him so,
My love is more to me than life;
Take care of him.” Then virtue’s foe
Winced, as one struck by sudden knife.
The suppliant humble bowed her head—
* < God guard dear Jack. ” The tempter fled.
Melb.
E.F.


a 1% ,t , __ Established 1849.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Th, ya"!,’!:,! DECLARES A BONDS EVERY YEAR.
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, S^t 01 JOSEPH
J. T. WALKER, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; 8. / SHORT, Esq. ,
ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEEOE, 1.1. A., F.I .A.,
ANNUAL INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions *terling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head Office: 8 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
a A f TA O A\T Cur'DVTIPV
A Good Carver wants a good knife. We think we have
as good a stock of Cutlery as any house
in Sydney, and we want your opinion
about our think. Call on us if you
want anything in this line, or anything
else in Hardware. Have just landed
the new L.H and C. Bread Knife, which
is a revelation, price 1/3 —the old style
has now got to go. Razors, hollow
ground, from 1/6 upwards.
MXean Bros. & BA gg I-til., 512-14 George-st., Sydney.
ROUGHS,
QOLDS,
AND
QATARRH
DISAPPEAR
BEFORE
Watt’S
CaragbccO
MoSS.
A PERFECT
REMEDY.
ALL
CHEMISTS.
-THE-
Celebrated Cll Corsets
(Patented and Reuieleied)
' \
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect in
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
whi oh so favorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearing C.B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents-. 1. 15. NKWI’OItT A SONS,
Chisholm Lane, Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
AUSTRAL OVERCOATS.
EQUAL TO ORDER— in FASHION, FIT, and FINISH.
Look Well! Fit Well! Wear Well T
At PRICES to DEFY COMPETITION. Before ordering, call and inspect.
GENT’S WINTER HOSIERY.
UNDER-SHIRTS, PANTS, HALF-HOSE, etc., etc., in
NATURAL WOOL, CASHMERE, LAMB’S WOOL, MERINO, ETC.
Our Own Importing- Direct from the best English manufacturers.
IS" UMBRELLAS- a Speciality.
GO WIN G BROS.,
Aus tial Clothiers & Outfitters,
486, 488, 490 George Street, SYDNEY (opp. Main Entrance New Markets).
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STE vM
Cultivatin ]
Machinery.
V: r
£
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po-table Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HKAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
WALTER M. NOAKES, Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for tlie “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
WHITEI.AW & CO.,
155 Swanston-street, Melbourne, BOOT & SHOE MANUFACTURERS,
On receipt of remittance forward, carriage ] aid to any address in Vic oria (other colonies, 1/- extra),
any of their specialties in Boots and Shoes, catalogues of which will
bo sent on application. Their Hand-made Boots do not creak, a-o
flexible in the sole, have no nails, pegs, or tacks whatever to wound
the foot, they do not require breaking in, being smooth and clean
inside.
The RATIONAL, a strong, serviceable country boot
UNIVERSITY, a town walking and business boot
” HORSE-SKIN, a wide-Welt, first class winter boot
American-dressed Russia and Ooze Calf Boots
MACHINE-SEWN BOOTS from' los. 6d
. 16/-
. 21/-
. 22/6
.. 21/-
ef
The London and Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 AND 33 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have NOW OPENED a large shipment of SCOTCH and WEST OF ENGLAND r l WEEDS
for AUTUMN and WINTER WEAR. These Goods having been bought previous to the great
rise in price, we can now offer the best value in the colonies
Our Popular Prices!
Suits to Order - 45/- 55/- 63/- etc.
Trousers „ - 12/6 15/- 16/6 etc.
ALL WELL SHRUNK AND WELL MADE.
Write for Patterns, Self-Measurement Eorms and I ape.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
All orders delivered free by post.
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
Business Announcements.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
London Dental Institute
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER .SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes: —“The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . •
scale on which they work enaliles them to empl }
capital and labor in the most effective and econo
wav, and content themselves with a reasonable piont
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They .can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy' every customer.”
J@i?“ Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
s11)A L 1, i> .S. w ALBS.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
WjTR. AUBREY DAVIS, Dentist, of 492 George-
«*“■ street (Royal Arcade), SYDNEY, has spared no
expense in fitting-up his luxurious consulting rooms with
the latest dental appliances. The Operating Chair is a
work of art, in which the patient can be raised, lowered,
or placed in any required position by hydraulic power.
Extraction is performed painlessly without Ether or
Chloroform, by spraying the gum with a new local
anesthetic— “Chloride of Ethyl.” Artificial teeth of the
best quality are fitted at prices not much more than half
the rates commonly charged a few years ago.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 GEORGE STREET,
S Y D N B Y.
Specialties JUST ARRIVED for the XMAS
Trade.
H. h. Hutchinson ... Manager.
HE LAST OF SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Public Companies. __
INSURE with an AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
City Mutual Fire
INSIJUANCU COMPANY, Limited.
Head Offices: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Chairman —The Hon. John Sec , M.P,
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £163,478.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
All Funds Invested in Australia.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 17 Years - £125,000
KS’ INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Transacts FIRE Insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., ,£B47B— divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making £82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
RESERVE & INVESTMENT FUNDS, £ll:,o2ft
UNCALLED CAPITAL, £75,000.
PURELY a COLONIAL OFFICE, deriving
its income from New South Wales only, no risks
being taken outside the colony.
A BONUS of 20 PER CENT, has been paid
annually since 1873, divided between Policy-
holders and Shareholders. The amount thus dis-
tributed totals £118,651.
Claims promptly and liberally settled. FIF-
TEEN DAYS’ GRACE allowed for Renewal
of Policies—a protection afforded by no other
Fire Insurance Company.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets, Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Australian Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide: E. H. Peachey. L. A. Jessop, Director.
Melbourne: D. CIiYNE. Brisbane: T. VVelsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt Street, SYDNEY-
Important Announcement by Dixson & Sons,
Tobacco Manufacturers .
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSON & SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Price Hitliei’tO Ull-
kllOWll H6r6 a Cigar of exceptional quality.
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Havana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Vuelta Abajo).
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equally-choice Seed Leaf, and too-otW
... , & iei the y orm a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
, - rull ' sized Cigars We& " ...m at first no doul
be prejudicial; but machinery, overcoming 7
permits a Cigar of such oualitv •i. § C ° St ° f P roductlon > J us
and SONS intend the ZI ‘° *> * DIXSOI
gai to illustrate and prove what can be done
The “ BONANZA ”
comes as a pleasant surprise to m '
good Cigar, have lately been prevented I ‘a™® 11 CapaMe ° f a K >reciatin S a
indulging in the hitherto expensive retren ° hed clrcumstanoes from
Note. Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas wil
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertise,
sent (carriage paid) to any
appears.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 17.—N0. 854.
SATURDAY, JUNE 27, 1896.
Price, 6d.
«Wt»r
J\<
<r /
ivy
T 3 Ayl
\ a A
Ufj!
/Or Tfjz l=°S lt '“7 i
. u 6h<
%
u '
■W% lM
Qtii
_ \.
?V-1 Xr^
Cerm^y. X I
-- r ;
(£>b<Z. -s?i
f- 0 bl t " proper, af "
ij stat~e_of £° ul ~
Soul?“ /Vow It~ f 5
s
A JOB LOT.


The Bulletin
The Nalional Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Potany-street, Waverley, for The Bid leiin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at tlie Office of the Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
PIT BUSHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
n a £lO 0
Per Annum ... ... r
Half-yearly ... «“ %
Quarterly...
NOTICE.
flu sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling-with postage added where required—
which you may 'pay by Vast olj.ee Order, 1 ostal JSotc ,
One found Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin -posted regularly to you every
week for a year. _ . ..
Cheques, Dra ts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Dvcctor.
Lite aiy Communications to be addressed J. i'.
Aucuiiiald.
Sjiecial Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
(he publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hcreoy
i-xpi essly i eserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
•Conespondeace” column all ci ntributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, 1 ocial, or other Artic.es,
Vcisc Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
lent th or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Par dtp aphs, Betters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we at e not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
intei esting i hotograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in Lonaon,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Budgate Circus; Street it Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — If. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is now £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage. England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
I^zcHefon.
SATURDAY, JUNE 27, 1896.
Gone Under.
A- few days ago Treasurer Ward, of Maori-
land, joined the lamentable procession of
lamentable politicians who have “ gone un-
der ” —for a time at all events, if not for ever.
This pecuniary kind of sinkage is a peculiarity
of Australasian politics, while for various
reasons it is practically unknown in Great
Britain. The British Cabinet Minister is,
in almost every case, a man of wealth, who
isn’t dependent for his livelihood on a busi-
ness that goes to wreck while he is attending
to public affairs. Men of wealth are vastly
more numerous in Britain than they are
here, and as Britain has oidy to find one
Ministry out of forty million people, while
Australasia supplies seven Ministries out of
four millions, there are enough of them to
go round, which is not the case in these pro-
vinces. It is even possible, in the little
country “ down under,” to form a reasonably
democratic Ministry of rich men ; where the
wealthy class is so numerous some of them
must needs become more or less democratic,
if only out of the habit of being in opposi-
tion to the other lot. The British Minister,
too, receives something like a “ living wage,”
which isn’t the case in several of the Aus-
tralias ; and he doesn’t require to file his
schedule when he goes out of office, for his
suffering country gives him a very handsome
pension if he chooses to apply for it. Under
all these diverse conditions, the fact that
British statesmen don’t make a melancholy
procession into the insolvency court, and
that Australasian statesmen do, is sufficiently
understandable.
♦ * * *
The downfall of Treasurer Ward is a trifle
more pathetic than the usual collapse. Ward
has been for nearly six years an honored
member of about the ablest and most gene-
rally-respected Ministry which has ever held
office in Maoriland. He was a capable Trea-
surer ; that is to say, he always had a surplus
in visible cash —not merely on paper ; and
his surplus wasn’t made up by wrongfully
annexing the sinking-funds, and surrep-
titiously running them into revenue, and
denying afterwards that he did it, except
when it seemed necessary to do these things
in order to produce a surplus at all. There-
fore lie may be regarded as a reasonably
honest Treasurer, and agood deal more capable
than the average. The spectacle of the man
who ran the financial affairs of the State with
tolerable success for so long a time barely
managing to pay 9d. in the £ on his own lia-
bilities, under very shady circumstances,
is quite in keeping with the ways of
political life. Whether Ward’s exploded
company was a swindle of a very bad kind,
or a very bad case of neglect and imbecility
and hopeless incompetence, or a mixture of
the two, and whether it was Ward’s swindle,
or how much of it was Ward’s own imbecility,
are things that remain to be shown. Either
way, it is another essay on the lamentable folly
of not “ laying to your book.” The ex-Trea-
surer was a comparatively wealthy business
man at Invercargill when he took to politics.
Politics took him to Wellington, three days’
journey from his office and his business, and
thereafter his affairs seem to have run them-
selves. Then he floated them into a com-
pany of which he was managing director,
and the company also seems to have run
itself. It lasted just three years ; it ruined
Ward and nearly everybody else connected
with it ; it partially ruined the Colonial
Bank of M.L. ; and now the ex-Treasurer is
ejected from his political billet and his salary,
practically penniless, snowed up beneath a
mountain of false balance-sheets and other
troubles ; and accused more or less openly
—though so far on no apparent evidence —of
having misused his political position in the
effort to keep himself afloat. Also, a judge
has denounced him from the bench of the
Supreme Court in no very measured terms.
So far as the public saw it, Ward’s downfall
filled something less than a fortnight ; that
was all the time he occupied in sliding from
nearly the highest position in the State to
practical nothingness.
* * * *
The matter which made the ex-Treasurer’s
ruin absolutely certain and definite was his
famous visit to Hingland. Almost every
Australian politician who makes a triumphal
progress to the land of Bull goes under very
shortly afterwards. There is a fatality about
J. Bull’s country for “colonial” politicians.
Parkes went there in all his hair and his
glory, and came back to go insolvent, and be
thrown out of office and bad-egged by an in-
furiated populace. Dibbs rioted through
England and was made a K.C.M.G., and
poked his walking-stick into the bed of a
deceased monarch to see what it was stuffed
with, and his doings filled the cable intelli-
gence for many weeks, and the big cigar
which Wales gave him became histori-
cal ; and then he came back with his
Windsor uniform to be thrown out of
office and out of Parliament. Griffith
went to England in ’B7, and next year was
chased down a bye-street by a howling mob ;
his reputation fled, his party burst up, and
he only escaped utter shipwreck by pocket-
ing his pride in a “ reconciliation ” with his
bitterest opponent. M ‘llwraith went to
England, and, poor man, has ever since
been trying unsuccessfully to be a
heaven-born financier on one kidney and
a little bit of liver. Berry went
to England, and that ended his career as
Berry, the democrat. James Munro went
there, and was called back to file his schedule
and be assaulted in the street by infuriated
depositors. James Brown Patterson, being
unable to go to England and grovel to the
Royal Family, struck the great idea of invit-
ing royalty to come to Australia and be
grovelled to here ; and the curse worked
that way just as well as the other,
for he died almost immediately after-
wards. And the worst things that hap-
pened to Ward’s dreadfully - misman-
aged company occurred while he was
away in London being presented to the
Queen, and addressing admiring public meet-
ings, and otherwise making the same kind
of glare which Dibbs made a few years
previously. When he came back, there
were flags and processions and a half-
holiday in his honor, and the Ward
Farmers’ Association declared a big divi-
dend, and Ward (so he alleges) signed the
fraudulent balance-sheet without knowing
what was in it, or being aware that his co.
had been throwing money away in all direc-
tions with a shovel in his absence. Nobody
seems to care much about his explanations,
however, and nobody appears to grieve much
about his downfall. If he had been removed
by death, like Ballance, the public might
have put a few wreaths on his grave and
spoken kindly of him, but there is none of
the sort of pathos that the public is addicted
to about the man who removed by 9d. in
the £, and people don’t put wreaths on the
Insolvency Court, except in very rare in-
stances.
* * * *
However the affairs of Ward’s shady com-
pany may pan out on further investigation,
the present chances are that Ward has gone
under for good. A great many men get one
chance in life ; very few get two such chances
as he had and as he threw away. Australia is
full just now of men with somewhat similar
histories; the w'recks who were left over
from the last boom, and who expect to rise
again on the next one, oblivious of the fact
that the new boom wants new men,
and that the old ones will be of no
more account in it than if they
never existed. In the ordinaly course of
things the future of the ex-Treasurer will
consist of a seedy little wooden office, and
inside a tired-looking man, who is his own
entire staff and office-boy, picking up little
crumbs in the precarious commission-busi-
ness, and a cheap-looking 4( ® ? £ W) Finan-
door, with the inscription, , As _
cial Agent.” Meanwhile the Farmers a
s „ci»tiS„ ““““t at next
Government will have a harder g j
election than was generally ex P e^ d ’ ’
though it is still almost impossible tha t
can be defeated considering its.
and the wonderful meptitude o 1
tion, its prospects look a shade w
they did. It has met with many
the last three or four years. Ballan<
first, and took the best man out of pranks.
Buckley went also, though lie wa g
weakest man in the team and his a -
hardly noticeable. The brilliant Reevesihas
gone to England, and is beginning to figure
there as W. Pember Reeves, and looks in
serious danger of wandering into th e devious
wavs of K C.M.G.-dom. Ward, who was
rerouted to be one of the_ distinctly strong
men of the Cabinet, has just dropped
And in place of these veterans of the demo-
cratic Ministry which Ballance formed in
1891 there are beginning to drift into the
Cabinet smaller and comparatively obscure
individuals, with names like Thompson am
Jones, who don’t appear to fit in well with
the original plan. If a Ministry survives all
other chances it generally dies m the end o
too much repair, and judging from present
appearances the Seddon Government will
die from that cause in the end.
Laying the Ghost.
It has evidently been decided by N.S. VY ales
officialdom to quietly release the remainder of
the Mount Rennie prisoners during Judge
Windeyer’s absence in England. By this
arrangement Mr. WlNDEYEßisgiven opportunity
of avoiding all appearance of assenting to the
act and thereby seeming to acknowledge the
hideous injustice of the original trial as he con-
ducted it Also, he is enabled to avoid
the other impression that he dissents from it,
and that it is done despite his opposition and by
way of a slur on his judgment. As far as pos-
sible Mr. Windeyer gets rid of the Mount
Rennie ghost without appearing either to re-
pent or to be uurepentant, or even to be aware
that there ever was any ghost. At the same
time the Govt, lets him down easy per medium
of an article in the sneaking and obsequious
S.M. Herald, which tries to set forth (1) that
the trial and the conviction and the death-
sentence were just (the Herald said at the
time in a leading article that the trial was most
wwjust, but that doesn’t matter); and (2) that
though the Mount Rennie prisoners deserved
hanging it is quite the right tiling to let them
out after nine years’ imprisonment—less than
many a man gets for embezzlement—less than
Judge WINDEYER himself has given civil ser-
vants for stealing public moneys. This is how
it sets about the matter :
Before the occurrence of the Mount Rennie outrage the
colony had been shocked by several crimes of a somewhat
similar nature, some of which had from different causes
escaped adequate punishment. Looking back upon the
matter from the standpoint of the intervening years, we
may admit that the prompt arrest and clear conviction of
the culprits in the Mount Rennie affair were received by a
large part of the public, and by those charged with the
administration of the law, as furnishing an opportunity
for stamping out by the exercise of signal severity a par-
ticularly atrocious form of crime by which the colony had
been alarmed and disgraced. The full penalty was
exacted in the case of the four chief offenders; the two
others received sentences only short of death. Whether
as a consequence or not of this exemplary sternness we
need not now enquire ; but as a fact, since the execution
of the Mount Rennie culprits, the criminal records of the
colony have been free from cases of this particular kind
of crime in concert, by which they had before been too
frequently disfigured. The lapse of years has relegated
the Mount Rennie crime to what in so young a community
we may regard. as a comparatively distant past. The
interval has served to almost efface even the memory of the
feelings of shame'and alarm which the outrage, following
as it did upon similar occurrences, produced in the
mind of the public. We would fain hope that the moral
' character of the community has so improved as to render
crimes of this particular character less to be apprehended
in future. If this should prove to be the case, only a
minority of judgments would question that a considerable
factor in the improvement was supplied by the way in which
the dread powers of the law were exercised in the punish-
ment of this crime. The question now is not as to the
propriety of these punishments. It is one of a different
nature, and is addressed to entirely different faculties so
to speak, of the mind and conscience of the community.
It is whether the State could not without danger now
show mercy to the culprits still serving their sentence in
prison.
* * * *
The above pleas,which are all so constructed
as to let the Judge down as softly as possible,
are mostly false, and those which are not dis-
tinctly false are more or less garbled. N.S
Wales hadn’t been “shocked” by several
“ crimes of a somewhat similar nature ” during
the year or two, or three, or five, before the
Mount Rennie affair. The Herald, of course
doesn’t bind itself down to any definite period •
it simply says that there had been certain crimes
before the Mount Rennie episode, and in
the previous 100 years, or in the previous ten cen-
turies, there certainly had been, but if it means
to imply that there was any rush of sexual
ottences just before that episode it tells a false-
hood, and if it doesn't mean that then it deliber-
ately creates a false impression. The province
wasn t “ alarmed and disgraced” just then bv
any especial outbreak, and there was nothing
mote than usual to “stamp out.” Moreover
nothing in particular was stamped out. Since
the execution of the Mount Rennie culprits ”
the records of the province haven’t been
free ftom sexual crime any more than thcv
were before. The year which followed that
statistics (1893 and ’94) show a fficrt* 8
as compared with 1890 thp « US lnc * edse
don't go any further tack.’ “ftt
Herald s plea, that the ghost of \tp .. r> le
Should be lifted off its mind andßennie
the callous officials and politicians °f
tenanced the ineffably.barbarous “Sal ”T'
cause that lesson has done its work and i b
longer required, falls through and 8 T
possible reason for the commutation of tb ° uly
tences is that they were inflictpd ? f the Sen '
blood-drunkenness, on the evidenced
walker, a forger, and an arsonist, upon the
verdict of a jury that was going mad from ex-
haustion and want of sleep, and by a Judge
who was wholly unfitted judicial office.
Also it may be mentioned as a kind of side-
issue that, when the principal witness for the
gallows (Stanley) proved to be a man of
bad character and a passer of forgeries,
the police didn’t execute the warrant
against him (though he was visible daily
in the streets) until a pressman one day
seized a somnolent constable, and showed him
the wanted man, and forced him to take him
into custody. The felony was thereupon un-
lawfully compounded by certain persons,
who paid, or allowed to be paid, the
amount of the forged cheque out of the sub-
scriptions to the Stanley testimonial. Y\ hen
the case was called upon, the (squaied) piose-
cutor didn’t appear. The police didn’t do their
duty and make him appear, though he was a
well - known publican and could have been
forced to appear under penalty of losing his
license The Justice Department didn’t
prosecute. No well-known citizens were
arrested for compounding a serious crime, and
the blood-drunk daily press kindly dropped the
whole scandal. If it hadn’t been dropped,
and if as little as possible hadn’t been
said about the after conviction of the
third Crown witness for arson, even “right-
thinking” people might have begun to seri-
ously doubt the justice of that infamous
trial _so there was a general smother-
ing all round. Yet, curiously enough, the
Herald, in its list of reasons why the Mount
Rennie prisoners should be released (in a
way that won’t hurt the feelings of Mr. Win-
deyer), doesn’t mention one of these inter-
esting circumstances. And, by way of
another side issue, when the Herald speaks
of the diminution of crime, how is the crime
known as compounding a felony the one
which the Herald absolutely refused to
say anything about when it was done to
bolster up the credit of an utterly unreliable
Crown witness getting on ? Is it being
“ stamped out ”at all ? And is there any per-
ceptible diminution in that other crime, which
has no definite name, but which consists in the
police and the Crown Law Department, and the
high officials and the respectable daily press, all
becoming suddenly oblivious while a well-known
criminal escapes —a criminal whose conviction
would be very awkward for the persons respon-
sible for choking four youths, largely on his
evidence, and the papers who whooped for the
said execution, and the Lieut.-Governor and
ex-Chief Justice who deified him at public
meetings, and the notable people who subscribed
to his testimonial ?
Potsherds.
Canon Potter has just preached a political
sermon in St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, in
which he blasted the divorce laws, secular edu-
cation, and the Protective system. Here is Mr.
Potter’s first principle of government: —
Every Government is bound (1) to recognise God as the
Supreme Ruler, and to govern according to His laws.
It is just such an alleged principle that animated
all the heresy-hunts of the past. Every per-
secuting Pope, every defender of the faith,
every religious fanatie running amok, has
claimed some peculiar divinity as bis accomplice
before the fact. The God in whose name rapine
and murder and torture have been effected in
the past may only have been the delusion of
madness, but pestilential religions have still to
be feared ; and when a man claims that he
knows the special secrets of the true God, he
may still be a charlatan, may still be a victim
of mania, may still be an unscrupulous bigot,
like those who have wrecked States for all
time. Governing “ according to the laws of
God ” may still mean governing according to
distorted readings of a misunderstood Bible,
which supplies, and has ever supplied, the
seeker according to his tastes. Out of the
Bible, the fanatic can justify war, peace,
persecution, mercy, murder, honesty, theft,
asceticism, good - living, socialism, jingoism,
land nationalisation, communism, usury, poly-
gamy, suicide, slavery, bi-metallism, democracy,
monarchy, and anarchy. Which of these are
the “laws of God”? Sick and tired of the
wrangles of priests, the interpretations of
special-pleaders, and the lies of unctuous hypo-
crites, the democracy of these.days has settled
for itself that religion must confine itself
to a mental domain, without intrusion into
“practical politics.” The Government, as
the servant of the State, is required to
keep sectarian squabbles in their own
sphere, and to cease the domination which
has made religious rule in all ages the synonym
for intolerance and oppression. When the
Democracy makes mistakes it will suffer from
those mistakes—this is found to be a far safer
course than suffering from the mistakes of
opinionated hierarchies.
* * * *
This leads up to Mr. Potter’s second prin-
ciple :
Every government is bound (2) to weigh fairly and
justly the interests of all the governed alike.
If the government is Democratic, it will be
representative—but it will not be infallible.
Infallibility must be left to Potter and the
Popes. A Democratic government will rule in
accordance with what it thinks are the wishes
of the Democracy. The Democracy will not
require to be done those things that are infalli-
bly right—but what things appear to be right
and in accordance with the greatest good of
the greatest number. Mr. Potter has a
grievance with the Victorian Democracy, and,
unfortunately for himself, gives details :
A government violates the former principle if it keep
laws on the statute-book which tend to turn marriage into
a mere temporary alliance, not for higher but for lower
Purposes, and so to make men and women like the cattle
of the field, and not like the sons and daughters of the
Most High.
lhis is a priestly curse of the Shikls Divorce
Act, which makes the marriage contract nulli-
uable for such reasons as that one of the parties
has become a habitual criminal. Lofty talk
about criminal husbands being “ sons of the
Most High ” will never convince the democracy
that a defiled and maimed marriage contract is
a thing of duty and a join for ever.


Mr. Potter goes on :
A Government violates the former principle if it first
makes education a State monopoly, and then proscribes or
disregards the highest part of education —the education
of the moral sense and conscience.
This means, firstly, if it means anything, that
the only educators permitted in Victoria are
State school teachers. If so, it is a priestly lie.
It means, secondly, that the education of the
moral sense and conscience are prohibited in
Victoria. This looks like another holy false-
hood. Victoria has a system of compulsory
education. Free schools were established be-
cause the compulsory clauses of the Education
Act would otherwise have been a hardship.
The free schools were made secular because de-
nominational schools were proved by years of
experience to be a failure, and because the
democracy refused to adopt any State religion.
Nevertheless, the clergy have large opportuni-
ties for visiting and teaching in the schools at
the present moment —and they unanimously
stay away.
More Potter :
A government violates the latter principle if it take
toll of its people not for the legitimate expenses of govern-
ing, but in order to bolster up some trades at the cost of
the others, to create artificial monopolies, and to hinder
the free flow of wealth from shore to shore.
This attack on Protection by a Free Raider
implies that the Government is the initiator, and
that it forces the Protective System on the
“ governed.” This is the democratic ideal (and
the facts) upside-down. The people of Victoria
adopted Protection by a vast and overwhelming
majority—and whether it is a just or unjust
principle, as long as it is the province’s adopted
principle, the Government must administer it
or go. To assert that a Government must not
legislate in the interests of less than all classes
is humbug. In a democracy the Government
must introduce bills, etc., which it believes are
in accordance with what the democracy believes
to be necessary. The democracy does not, as a
rule, yearn for the interests of parsons, land-
monopolists, and sweaters —such “classes,” as
such, have to take their chances.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Geake Scandal.
I On the 29th April last Victoria was startled by
the conviction and sentencing to two years’ im-
prisonment (!) of a very fraudulent solicitor
named Geake. As far as anyone could remem-
ber, there was no modern precedent for a
solicitor’s conviction in that land of privileged
rascality. Numerous members of the profession
had been reprimanded more or less for offences
which were nearly bad enough to get another
sort of person hanged without the option of a
fine, but as for putting a lawyer into gaol—the
public had learned by experience to doubt
whether it could possibly be done at any price.
Geake’s conviction at Bendigo Assizes was such
an unaccountable accident that people began to
look around at once for a reason why the sen-
tence couldn’t be carried out —a nolle prosequi
after the event, or a new patent quash, or what
not. Consequently, there was a universal ejacu-
lation of “ I thought so ! ” when the discovery
of Geake’s apparent discomfiture was followed
by the news that Geake had appealed. Lhe
learned Judge, previous topassingsentence, made
a note of some precious point or other for the
consideration of the Full Court. Naturally the
outside world jumped to the idea Geake’s
conviction would get upset on appeal, inasmuch
as the imprisonment of one fraudulent trustee
from among so many couldn’t be decent in
Equity. However, the conviction of Geake
was upheld by the Full Court. Barrister
O’Loghlen advanced some sweet arguments
and technical objections to the effect that
Geake ought not to have been tried on the
charge which laid him low, but the baronet s
eloquence failed. Then was there nothing left
for the bowled-out lawyer (on paper, as a horse
reporter would write) save durance vile and
hominy. Just at this juncture sceptical
watchers of the case recollected that Geake,
pending the appeal, had been released on
ridiculously light bail. His own recognisances
in .£2OO, and those of a friendly law-clerk for
a like amount, were held to be sufficient
security for Geake’s appearance when called
upon ! The criminal was called for at Melb.
Criminal Court last week, but he did not appear.
He was non est. Nobody, strange to say, had
taken measures to prevent Geake’s new address
from becoming a dark mystery. So the Court,
without comment, ordered estreatment of the
recognisances, and the public said ‘ I thought
so ! ” with even more emphasis than before.
A Terribly Sad Case.
The other day a Sydney bank-clerk pleaded
guilty to having stolen <£ll2o from the till.
Like Corkett, the woolly-headed young rogue
in “ Silver King,” this reckless individual bor-
rowed money from his governors without men-
tioning of it, to put it on ’orses. He spoke
quite candidly on the point when asked whether
he had anything to say why sentence should
not be passed. “ I lost money on the races
confessed the dock-penitent, “and thought 1
could recover it at racing, and failed. All the
money went that way and with that object.
His salary, it seemed, was <£l3o a year, a te . r
seven years’ service in the bank. He laid muc i
stress on the smallness of his salary, which, m
his opinion, fully excused the comparative
magnitude of his embezzlement. And the
learned Judge was seemingly somewhat in
sympathy with the prisoner’s views. His Honor
passed a sentence of two years’ imprisonmeii
under protest, as it were. Duty compelled him
to “ look at the morality of the thing, neverthe-
less he felt bound to admit that “ the case was a
terribly sad one.” Justice Rogers s leniency
reminds one again of Corkett, in the drama.
When Corkett enquires of liis old men ,
Coombe, concerning the probable legal penalty
for borrowing a governor’s money without men-
tioning of it, he is told, truthfully, that the
British Bench is severe upon unauthorised bor-
rowers who back ’orses with the money. ( ull
from a “nice, kind Judge, with his stumnuck
in good working order,” a Corkett stands an
excellent chance of getting seven years haid
labor. The two cases of Corkett and the
Sydney bank-clerk are not quite on all fours,
and certainly The Bulletin doesn’t advocate a
policy of seven years’ hard labor for every
small-salaried embezzler who goes gambling on
the turf. But an ordinary working man in
receipt of a sure and steady 50s. per week gets
no judicial word of compassion when he is con-
victed of theft, small or large. There are no
extenuating circumstances in his case. He is
considered to have been well provided for by
his wage, inasmuch as millions of his fellow-
men contrive to exist honestly upon less money,
working longer hours the while. Justice Rogers
would probably drop heavily on an ambitious
bricklayer who, actuated by a genteel desire to
live in better style, stole £ll2O for betting-
purposes ; therefore, in dropping so softly upon
this cashier he gave one more proof that the
Law, for all it may say to the contrary, is a
barefaced respector of persons. The Law, ac-
cording to Mr. Rogers, can find some justification
for a roguish bank-clerk where it finds none for
a bricklayer. The one man’s inexcusable crime
is the other man’s unfortunate misdemeanor,
the difference in their degrees of guilt being
solely attributable to the other man’s “superior
position in society.” Thus saitli the law, as far
as The Bulletin can understand it. If it
didn’t intend to express itself to that effect, if
it isn’t a respector of persons, and a drawer of
nice distinctions, perhaps his Honor will kindly
explain where the especially terrible sadness
aforesaid could possibly come in.
Low Down on tlie Deity.
Scotch and thrifty Baron Lamington, of whom
it is alleged (doubtless truthlessly) that not a
sparrow falls to the grounds of Govt. House
but he secures its feathers for a bolster, last
week opened the twelfth Queensland Parlia-
ment with the usual shoddy simulacrum of
pomp and ceremony. The assembled mediocri-
ties were given to understand that the All-
Seeing Eye of Queen Vic. had them well in
focus ; and the economical peer then patted the
new boys on the head, gave them 3d. each (but
no whisky) with strict injunctions not to spend
more than Id. at a time, and retired in clearing
the ground for action with one generous and
comprehensive wish: “May the Blessing of
Almighty God rest upon your labors !” From
the infinitely great the new Parliament re-
bounded at once to the infinitely little. The
cocksure Cowley— Govt, instrument, servant
and partisan—was re-elected Speaker as a
matter of course ; and it was noted as signifi-
cant that Premier Nelson put up Attorney-
General Byrnes to “congratulate” his nominee,
and himself followed his follower. At latest
the Ministerial policy—a continuation of “ drift,
dribble, and bolster the bank,” without a single
promise of vital progress—was still under dis-
cussion. Contemplate the grotesque medley on
which the youthful Governor supplicated the
Divine blessing ! Admire Premier Nelson, the
blas6 and cynical election-rigger, who, having
secured a puppet-majority for his party and a
title for his female relations, is about to retire,
well-pleased, from the sordid little farce of
local politics. Note the disappointed glare
with which Truthful Tozer eyes the swollen
and ambitious Byrnes, the Premier’s under-
study, pining to earn, like him, the plaudits of
Fat-Man, the hisses of the people. Mark
Glassey, divorced from his piano, but not from
his eternal organ; Groom, grown old and
toothless, yet still avid of the Cabinet-seat
which will will-o’-the-wisp him into his grave ;
shaven Hoolan, jaundiced Dalrymple, take-it-
easy Drake. Cast an eye over the crowd of
mean little men with mean little motives—
here and there a heart honest, a head able and
from them pass to the electorates they repre-
sent —North, South, and Centre. Cairns !
with its latest leper kept for three
months within ten yards of the public
footpath, tended by the local constabu-
lary, now taken in a boat to be marooned
on the other side of the inlet, with strict
Government injunctions to “burn the boat to
avoid infection.” Rosewood ! with its melan-
choly swamp jobbed under the Agricultural
Lands Purchase Act, which provides for the
re - purchase of estates without reference
to Parliament. Mackay ! lying in wait for
the loans on the sugar-lands of Govt, supporters,
the railways through the selections of Govt,
members —“If you want a railway, you must
return the men who can get you a railway.”
What a stew ! what a spectacle ! And over all,
enclosing, protecting, broods with outstretched
wings the serene and consolatory Paraclete :
upon all, with true Scottish humor, Baron
Lamington invokes the blessing of Almighty
God !
Sydney Daily Telegraph advances a reason
why the attempted prosecution of Tooth and
Co. on a charge of illegally obtaining rebate of
beer duty should have been smothered :
No doubt, where a man applies for a summons against
another on a charge of having committed some indictable
offence, of which he is himself the victim, and gives the
necessary guarantees of good faith, it is a usual and a
proper thing for one to issue. But it is quite a new
doctrine that where the charge is that somebody has
in hired somebody else, who emphatically denies having
been so injured, the person making it is entitled to insist
upon a Crown prosecution. If that was the case, whole-
sale blackmail might soon be expected to become the
order of the day.
This is glaringly false logic from beginning to
end. The beer-duty is part of the revenue. It
isn’t the property of the Customs Department,
but of the people at large, of whom the person
making the charge is one. The alleged fraud,
if it were proved to exist, would be a personal
wrong to the informer as well as to every other
member of the community. There was, there-
fore no allegation that a wrong had been com-
mitted against “somebody else.” The defenders
of Tooth and Co. are merely, by their mis-
placed enthusiasm, bringing down suspicion—
quite possibly unjust suspicion—on that firm;
when people so earnestly demand that a case
shall not be publicly investigated, the great
illogical public begins to wonder if they are
afraid of the results of an investigation.
Premier Reid’s advocacy of the firm is especi-
ally misplaced, seeing that he admits lie is
“ intimately acquainted with two or three
leading members of the co. and is, therefore
barracking for his personal friends. And the
conduct of the Government which won l e\en
allow a summons to issue against the firm which
by an unfortunate coincidence happens to
contain two or three of the Premier’s friends,
is, to say the least, widely different froin its
conduct in arresting—not issuing a summons
against, but arresting by warrant, and rushing
into the lock-up, and endeavoring to retain
there without bail - its political enemy,
Crick, on what, after all, proved to be an
unfounded charge. And when it alleges that it
won’t proceed against Tooth and Co. (with
whom, or some of whom, Premier Reid is
“ intimately acquainted ”) because the evidence
is insufficient, people with awkward memories
recall that it proceeded vigorously against
Crick, not only with insufficient evidence, but
with absolutely no evidence worth calling such
at all. Altogether the unhappy fact that
Premier Reid is “ intimately acquainted” with
leading members of Tooth and Co. makes the
matter look more lamentable than ever.
Cabbage Garden Conservatism is at great
pains to deny Lormer his well-earned credit
for blotting certain honorary magistrates out of
existence. Thus the Argus in a recent issue :
“ At the meeting of the Cabinet yesterday the
Solicitor-General brought under the notice of
his colleagues the suggestion made by the
Lormer Board that the services rendered by
detective M‘Manamny to the Board, and to
Mr. Maxted, barrister-at-law, who conducted
the inquiry, should be recognised by the Govern-
ment.” Informant Lormer, but for whose
original statement of cases calling for inquiry
the Board would never have come to pass, is an
item of no inportance, judging from this in-
spired par. Moreover, the suggestion to grease
detective M'Manamny seems to have emanated
from the Crown Law Office, or the Argus, for
the Lormer Enquiry Board disowns it indig-
nantly. Wherever the suggestion may have
come from it is clearly an attempt to belittle
Lormer’s services to the public. He it was
who shifted Rabiport, Baxter and Co. from
their defiled judgment seats.
The following is the programme with which
the Kingston Government starts the liew
session of S.A. Parliament: —
" Australian Federation on Democratic basis, includ-
ing a uniform Australian franchise consisting of
adult suffrage and with payment of members applied
to both Houses of the Federal Parliament; interpro-
vincial Freetrade ; the Referendum ; elective Ministries;
reduction of the Council franchise from £25 to £l5 for
occupiers and extension of the Council franchise to lease-
holders with £2OO improvements ; continuous Parlia-
ments, with two-member districts, but one member re-
tiring every two years; avoidance of fresh taxation and
increase of the income-tax exem]ition to £l5O ; loan
consolidation ; Civil Service reform and superannuation :
the Kopperamanna railway ; extension of the export de-
partment ; amendment of shipping laws; law reform ;
aid to early closing and drink-sale amendment
bills. Social reforms, particularly including («) the raising
of the age of consent; (6) simplification of the remedies
of deserted wives on the lines of English legislation ; (c)
Opium Bill ; opposition to the Japanese treaty, and ex-
clusion of colored labor.
The Continuous Parliament idea is an unpro-
mising fad, and the Age of Consent racket looks
like a foolish effort to capture the Dirty Saint
vote. Also, the proposal to reduce taxation is
the sort of drivel which every Australian trea-
surer hangs out to attract support, when the
thing really wanted is to reduce borrowing.
Otherwise, Kingston’s programme looks an
honest democratic policy, and unless something
unforeseen happens (something unforeseen often
does happen) the Government, which has
already the longest continuous record of office
in S.A. history, should last through this Par-
liament.
♦
The long-winded case of Edwards v. Melb.
Board of Works has at last been settled. A
Board official in charge of the Board’s land at
Whittlesea allowed the grass to take fire in 1892,
and the conflagration spread to Edwards’ land,
where it did much damage to property, and in-
directly to plaintiffs wife who tried to extinguish
it. Edwards and wife got a verdict, but the
Board kept appealing, and got four separate
trials, and lost each time. The damage was
proved ; it was also proved that the fire started
on the Board’s land, and that the Board’s official
didn’t try to put it out; but the weak-kneed
Bench kept haggling over a question as to
whether the Board’s representative “approved ”
of the fire, which, as approval is an inward
affair, no one could possibly answer. The Full
Court has now rejected the Board’s appeal for
a fifth trial, so the Fitzgibbon institution,
having spent ,£5OO or so in costs to try and
avoid paying <£ll7 damages, seems to be finally
left. As for plaintiff, hiscrops were destroyed and
his wife was badly injured, and after four years
law-struggle he gets about enough damages to
pay one-half of the cost of getting them. Why
can’t there be some finality about the civil law ?
In the criminal law a man gets one hearing
before the court and, possibly, one hearing on
appeal upon points of law only. In a civil
case the rich litigant can easily get four trials,
with a possibility of a fifth one and a Privy
Council appeal at the end of all, and he can be
heard over and over again on matters of
evidence as well as matters of law. A hy not
give just as much legal rope in one case as
in the other ?
Dear Bulletin, If E. W. O’Sullivan,
M. really wants to know why certain
N. W. Protectionist leaders are “suspect” of
Democracy, let him hark his memory back to a
few weeks ago, when he moved a motion in a
public meeting that the Governor be petitioned
to dissolve Parliament. That will explain a
g6od deal of restless doubt as to his democratic
bona-Jides —for any Governor who would have
dared to dissolve Parliament without constitu-
tional advice from his advisers would have been
as big a fool as the man who, while asking h in
to do such an outrageous thing, still jogs along
wondering why the people suspect his demo-
cratic protestations. The Protectionists, in my
humble opinion, have the best of the economic
argument and the worst of the advocates.
The most devoted advocacy of programmes will
not counteract in the public mind a suspicion
of theatrical stupidity. In politics stupidity
is the one unpardonable offence, and O’Sulli-
van’s programme-mongering, his stagey inter-
pellations, and “ put-the-limeliglit-on-me ” atti-
tudes in politics have rendered him suspect.
Moreover*he must look about for better illus-
trations and arguments than his well-known
“ Napoleon was a Protectionist, Lincoln was
a Protectionist, I am a Protectionist: there-
fore* Protection is right.” It doesn’t follow at
all j because, apart from these points of agree-
ment, Napoleon was a tyrant, Lincoln was a
lawyer, and O’Sullivan is O’Sullivan, lhe
present N.S.W. Protectionist collective “ light
and leading ” is too shaky on the feet, too stiff
in the back, and too fat in the head to encour-
age hope of ultimate success. A political
Joshua is still badly wanted ; but he must not
expect to break down the walls by simply
blowing bis own trumpet. —Yours, O’Hooligan.
Writes a Tasmanian correspondent: —
In a recent issue you say, “ The Vic. Upper House is the
most solid, reliable, and brutally arrogant stumbling-
block in Australasia.” This is inaccurate. The Tas.
Council is about the most hopelessly Tory Chamber on
this planet. Nothing but Federation, a revolution, or an
earthquake can bring progressive legislation into force in
this island. The Council has consistently rejected every
Democratic measure introduced into the Tas. legislature
during the past 30 years, including Manhood and Woman-
hood Suffrage, Police Centralization, and about a dozen
Land-tax Bills ; and last session it threw out without dis-
cussion a Bill to provide for its own dissolution whenever
it twice rejected any measure sent up by the Assembly.
In Victoria, where three-fourths of the Assembly voters
also possess the Council franchise, there is a faint hope of
ultimate reform. In Tasmania, there is none. Only 20
per cent, of the adult males can vote for the
Tory Chamber, and it probably fairly represents
the' views of that 20 per cent. Premier Braddon,
who does not believe in representative government
at all, cheerfully promises to introduce a straight-
out electoral-reform measure next session in the con-
fident and fully-warranted expectation that the Council
will throw it under the table without dividing. It is
amusing to see the brisk alacrity with which the crusted
members of the Assembly pass reforming Acts. They
know the said measures might be relegated to a church
debating-society for all the benefit their introduction is
likely to bring to the province. Besides, instead of a
third of the fossils retiring every second year, a sixth re-
tire annually, so that, even in the utterly impossible con-
tingency of inducing the reactionary percentage of elec-
tors to put in sound Democrats for four years in succes-
sion, it would take from now until 1900 to get a Radical
majority. Your remarks re the personnel of the Victorian
Councillors apply verbatim to the Tasmanians. Only one
of the 18, Piesse, even professes to be a Democrat. He
only got in by accident and does not stand a million-to-
one chance of re-election.
Australian alleged justice is mostly a matter
of longitude and liver. At Brisbane, on May
11, Judge Cooper gave a man three years’ p.s.
for stealing a saddle ; at Perth, on May 4,
P, M. Cowan awarded only six months to
another man who stole a side-saddle —probably
the more valuable article. P.M. Smithers, of
Sydney, on May 26 gave a man three months’
hard for stealing <£2 10s. from a Jap. ;
and on same date same magistrate only
awarded another fellow one month hard
for stealing £2 2s. 6d. from a white. Next day
P.M. Giles, also of Sydney, stretched two
people for four months’ each—one for stealing
jj], and the other for stealing a watch value
M. And four days after P.M. Edwards, also
of Sydney, awarded £1 or 21 days for stealing
tools value £2 ; and same sentence for stealing
bags value Is. 3d. Exactly how long a thief
goes up tor, or whether he’s let off with a fine,
evidently depends a lot on the place where he
has the good or bad luck to get arrested.
The police practice of holding back witnesses,
so justly reprobated by N.S.W. Judge Murray,
has been the cause of a development on the
prisoner’s side which the Judge does not appear
to have noticed. The accused person, if guilty
of even a tithe of the criminality charged
against him, sees at a very early stage of the
proceedings that the police are “holding back,
and consequently, when his turn comes, he
“reserves his defence.” And if he be wholly
innocent and his lawyer “cute,” he still reserves
his defence, as he can best substantiate his
innocence when the complete charges are before
him. It thus happens that the lower courts
have become mere skirmishing grounds—places
where the contestants take, as it were, trial
falls out of one another—and not tribunals for
seriously considering the guilt or innocence of
persons arraigned.
A time-honored rule of English law sets out
that the courts will never enquire into the
“ adequacy of a consideration.” Which means
that, as long as there is a “consideration,” no
matter how flimsy in nature, a Contract entered
into must be carried out to the bitter end. If,
for instance, a man engages to Vvork for ss. per
year, that contract will be enforced as far as
the courts can enforce it. This doctrine has
been productive of enormous evils, and is
due to the disinclination of the judges
to unravel the difficult question of values
—in fact, to the laziness of Judges. But,
as the judges are drawn from the wealthier
classes, one exception is made to this rule,
namely, the case of a prodigal reversioner. If
this young spark sells his patrimonial rights
for a song, the contract is easily upset. The
legislature has always tacitly acquiesced in this
judicial shirking of work. Accordingly, it is
interesting to note that the \ ic. Stamps Act
has expressly referred to the necessity of certain
deeds being for “ bona fide adequate pecuniary
consideration ” in order to escape taxation.
This provision will probably lead to new de-
velopments in the rather absurd English doc-
trine of consideration.
On the Darling (N.S.W.), the art to dance
at an aboriginal corrobboree is essentially the art
to shiver. The champion of Buckaroon is open to
shiver any man, white or black, for a young gin
and ten plugs of tobacco.
The lamentable organ of the students at
Melb. University, Alma Mater, brings forward a
“Proposal in Politics,” which aims at procuring
a M.P. for the University after the English
model. There are 600 students, about three-
fourths of whom are under 21, and in order to
atone for this smallness in number, the brazen
voice of the University suggests that matricula-
tion should be taken as the basis of the voting-roll.
Considering that hardly one in half-a-dozen school-
boys or schoolgirls who matriculate goes on to the
University, this proposal takes the cake for calm
cheek. And as the University man and matricu-
lated man is scattered all over Victoria, and is
especially rife in the city, and at the same time no
mention is made of disfranchising him in his own
electorate, it is to be presumed that the hopeful
undergraduate considers himself worthy of an
extra vote by virtue of “ cul-chaw ”—of course
claiming a third in acknowledgment of hi?
“thrift.”


GOOD
Boots.
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-st., Sydney^
CH ARLEMONT S
STUDIOS •
402 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
114 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT a™
PLATiKam. Photo
The effects obtained are most charming ? NE “
one interested in what is , n °' ■ fciVer .y-
new work, on view at the roomf *"
492 George Street, Sydney,
w
%
&
w
A
ijust
One
Minute
to—
call your attention
to the
Old Dominion
Cigare ties,
tney beat all
the old :imers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ A Trip to Chinatown.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Crimson Thread.”
Royal “ The Derby Winner.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
The farewell performance of the Brough-
Boucicault Co. on Saturday night, when Dot Bou-
cicault got a big benefit and a presentation, was a
great spectacle. The Cri. was crammed in every
part, even the orchestra being occupied by the ad-
miring public, in consequence of which the band
had to thrum its little bit of music on the stage
behind the curtain, and then fly in disorder with
its drum and its cymbal and sackbut and shawm
and trombone before the curtain went up. The
‘ ‘ Amazons ” was played for this affecting occasion,
probably because the Frenchman, De Grival, is
about the best of Boucicault’s many good char-
acters. Then, after the show, a big crowd ap-
peared on the stage, including Cecil Ward with
the black eye he got from Dorrington in Act 11.,
and Titheradge leaning wearily on a chair-back,
and Brough in the background ; and ex-Premier
Dibbs proceeded to wrestle with the presentation
in a truly painful spirit. Dibbs was probably
selected for the job because he is a general favorite
and is only a yard taller than Boucicault; and he
rose to the emergency with all the lightness and
appropriateness of a kedge-anchor in a drawing-
room. For ten solemn minutes he wandered round
himself, and fell, metaphorically speaking, over
his own feet, and kept coming out at the same hole
lie went in at, and lost himself in a great maze of
adjectives and prepositions and conjunctions, and
left half-finished statements sticking up all over
the place like the remains of old scaffoldings which
Luscombe hadn’t properly inspected. Finally, he
made an unusually bad break and waded ashore
with his peroration in his mouth, and handed
Boucicault the presentation album and the purse.
He hung on to the purse for some time after he
had torn himself away from the album, till people
began to think he wasn’t going to part with it,
but meant to put it to Boucicault’s credit in the
Savings Bank. Also, he paid a dreadfully awk-
ward compliment to Mrs. Brough—it was pro-
bably well-meant, but it would almost have justified
Brough in stoushing the orator with a brick—and
retired with both feet in his mouth as usual.
Dibbs seldom speaks without putting one foot in
his mouth, but this time he broke his own record
hopelessly.
* * * *
Boucicault made a perfect little oration in
reply. He never misplaced a word, or lost the
thread of his ideas, or fell down with an awful
crash in his vocabulary, or shuffled wildly with his
boots; and everything he said was in good taste
and to the point. Then Brough said a few words
with moderate success, and the function ter-
minated. The presentation album contained a
charming collection of water - color and other
sketches by leading Sydney artists, and the purse
is said to have been solid. So, with these assets in
his possession, Dot Boucicault starts England-
wards, and the good wishes of Australia in general
go with him.
** * *
Hoyt’s comedy co. appears at Sydney
Lyceum on Saturday in “ A Trip to Chinatown,”
and The Bulletin’s views on that American
frivolity will be duly recorded in next issue.
“Trilby” finishes its career to-morrow (Friday)
night. The latter days of “Trilby” have been-
somewhat disappointing, inasmuch as the heroine,
who didn’t show her feet to any great extent even
at the beginning, has lately been showing them
less than ever, and as the drama is distinctly a
feet drama this tendency to omit the lady’s ex-
tremities is reprehensible. However, it is possible
that even if Miss Crane had been a shoeless centi-
pede she wouldn’t have shown enough feet to
satisfy some of her admirers.
** * *
George Darrell promises “ The Crimson
Thread ” for Saturday night at Her Majesty’s.
This is one of Darrell’s many dramas which hasn’t
yet been seen in Sydney, and as Sydney might
wake up and cry for it in the night if it wasn’t
produced here, it is coming as above-mentioned.
** * *
Harry Rickards is re-appearing for ten
nights only at Sydney Tivoli, and ventriloquist
Win ton and the tuneful Ada Colley are also on
the bill. Also, the coroner’s jury has committed
on a charge of manslaughter the hulking indi-
vidual who fell out of the gallery while struggling
for a front seat, and killed a stall patron by drop-
ping on his spine. So far as The Bulletin knows,
dropping out of a gallery is about the only act
which doesn’t constitute a capital offence in N.S.
Wales, and, owing to this strange omission, the
person who fell will probably escape the gallows.
If it proves that there is no law to reach him
possibly Attorney-General Want will draft a bill
for the suppression of profane clumsiness and the
violent, hob-nailed variety of shoving and tramp-
ling in public places —these being the apparent
causes of the trouble in this instance.
** * *
The bright and cheery “ Derby Winner ”
will run for some little time longer at Sydney
Royal. Fitzgerald’s Circus is now taking its
damp, frost-bitten lion and its rheumatic tiger
around the suburbs prior to its departure for the
milder climate of Queensland. Prof. Kennedy is
running his mean, ugly show at Sydney Opera
House, and alleges in his advertisement that it is
“Endorsed by the Clergy,” which presents the
clergy in the worst light this paper has yet seen
them in. And otherwise things are cold and dank
and melancholy, and there is no joy left in the
N.S.W. capital—save the Income-tax.
» * -* *
Mdlle. Trebelli began her concert season
in Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night, and
made even a bigger success than she did last year.
The co. includes baritone John Prowse ; Strauss,
the well-known ’cellist; Walter Kirby and Miss
Odell-Fawcett; and these four are all excellent in
their respective ways. The star’s voice was in
magnificent condition, and the big audience in-
cluded His Ex., the Gov. The daily papers, by
the way, remark that Gov. Hampden “ honored ”
the sweet singer with his presence -which is the
natural daily paper way of putting it.
* ifc- * *
The second of the Potter-Bellew produc-
tions at Melb. Princess’s is “ Charlotte Corday,” a
fragile tragedy, said to have been written more or
less by the two principals. The programme
describes it as “ founded on an incident in the life
of Charlotte Corday ” viz., the stabbing of
Marat. Properly speaking, it is founded on the
conception of the incident, built up to the
occurrence of the incident, and rounded off with
the incident’s immediate result. In the first act,
beautiful, cranky Charlotte merely thinks of kill-
ing Marat; in the second act, she quite makes up
her mind to kill Marat; in the third act, she
actually does the deed ; and, in the fourth, she
goes away to be guillotined for her pains. Char-
lotte and Marat run the show between them,
assisted by 21 subsidiary characters on the stage,
and much rumbling of voices crying “Marat!”
behind the scenes. The roar of the distant multi-
tude is without question the most natural acting
in the piece. It wafts an aroma of revolution
across the footlights.
* * * *
Mrs. Potter’s appearance is highly sugges-
tive of the Charlotte Corday—the saintly young
virgin with a gory mission—depicted in Carlyle’s
“ History of the French Revolution.” She looks
the noble character, and inasmuch as Charlotte
was probably eccentric in her modes of speech,
and stagey in gesture, Mrs. Potter may claim to
act the part in the right spirit. All the same, she
fails to make one believe that she is other than
Mrs. Potter, and even her strongest situations
carry Very little weight. The assassination of
Marat in his bath is by no means thrilling. The
tyrant, who seemingly sits huddled up in a
large arm - chair, with his feet in mustard-
ana-water, gets to angry words with his lady
visitor. Then she bends over the absurd
mummy and lunges her right arm at his
chest, after which she informs her audience
that France is Free, and the curtain falls. Nobody
shudders. Subsequently, when Mrs. Potter takes
leave of her friends in prison, and goes away to
execution, she doesn’t convey much sense of her
approaching doom. Indeed, the lady must nave
lost such nervous force as she possessed six years
ago, if her performance on Saturday was the best
she can do.
* * *
The Marat presented by Bellew is an aged,
creaky caricature of numanity, combining the
mannerisms, and much of the “ business,” of
Irving’s Louis XI. with some of the crawl-
someness of Harvey Duff, the Oirish informer.
The actor is evidently hiding his identity,
and his Marat can’t be accepted as the ugly mon-
ster of 50 years, directing Parisian fury in the
early days of the Reign of Terror. The maddest
mob would scarcely be swayed by this decrepit
wheezer, who shrieks and falls in greasy ruins at
the reflection of his own face in a mirror. The
performance is a clever study of stage tricks, but
not convincing. The second act passes in the
studio of Jacques David, where Charlotte Corday
is supposed to sit to the painter for the character
of Judith. David, who was only six years younger
than Marat, is played in light juvenile style by
Scot Inglis, and Charlotte’s lover (an unnecessary
incident) is played in heavy juvenile style by R.
Stewart. Cathcart, Edwin Kelly, Geo. Ireland,
and Hans Phillips are the most noticeable people
in the background, but none of them disturb the
slow current of a sad story.
* * * #
On Saturday the Princess’s bill will be
changed to “ Camille,” in which Mrs. Potter and
Bellew opened their previous campaign.
** * *
Strauss’s rather old opera “Die Fleder-
maus ” was perpetrated at Melb. Bijou last Satur-
day by the Vic. Amateur Operatic Co. The per-
formance turns out to be pardonable in most re-
spects, and “ Pinafore,” produced on Monday, is
probably a little oetter. The two operas will be
cropping up at intervals during the next few nights
on behalf of Jewish cnarities.
*# * *
“ The Pointsman,” a drama in several
pungent acts and one famous railway catastrophe,
is concluding the Westmacott season at Mel-
bourne Royal. The weak feature of “ The
Pointsman ” is its plot, which starts with the
murder of a young man named Fred, and then
appears to lose the run of its moral purpose.
After a while the hero gets upon the track of the
licensed victualler who slew poor Fred, and pur-
sues him with enthusiasm, but considering that
Fred’s corpse was never discovered, while the evi-
dence of Ins decease would certainly break down
under cross-examination, it seems a pity to trouble
any more about the matter.
* * * *
Nevertheless, “ The Pointsman ” grips an
audience’s attention; and holds it to the bitter end.
A reckless barmaid, who went astray before
matrimony, and feels disposed to repeat the indis-
cretion afterwards, is a type of Hebe character
and full of human interest. Likewise, her com-
monplace husband, who takes to diink, and a
longshore loafer who never took to anything else,
and the cold-blooded villain in evening dress, and
the energetic railway-porter married to the bar-
maid’s virtuous sister—all these people are real.
Fred may be said to live until he meets his doom
in the prologue, and there is even an air of
naturalness about the train that comes snorting
across the stage, although it travels without an
engine-driver or stoker.
* * * *
This play doesn’t fit the Royal company as
neatly as “ Silver King ” did. Miss Harrie Ire-
land and Plimmer are quite satisfactory, and
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill, as the barmaid, acts with a
lot of untrained force and inexperienced ability.
King Hedley and numerous other people seem
either too large or too small for their parts, the
worst offender of them all being the actor /who
shone as the drunken passenger in “Silver King.”
This time he is a serious medical inai A\ n the
character he amounts to a criunn
profession. _
** * *
Miss Maggie Moore returns to the Roya,
on Saturday with a burlesque version of 1 J.
Maggie has always been a joyful event under « y
circumstances, and in her new c ra< : ' .
Michael O’Ferrall’s only daughter she is like' y
give the public fancy a good hard knock. Roberts
will play Svengali, and a real Caledonian y
can be depended upon to parody the c
of the previous Laird by speaking naturally.
The show at Melb. Opera House, where
the Frantz Family acrobats are on the pmnacle ot
success, was furnished with a new an g g
first-part last Saturday. Also Harry Pickards
took the opportunity to state that he is (
never has been) in partnership with anyone what-
soever, there being only one Rickards, who is ab-
solutely Sole Proprietor of himself and all i s
profits. This for the information of erroneous
rumonsts.
** * *
The boom in Town Hall concerts has died
away for the moment, but on Monday ( • ) a
series of Winter Popular Concerts will be in-
augurated at that spacious building, on " pc
occasion Titheradge is to appear in a mysterious
something described as a New Role. Also, a
pianist of historic interest will appear at the
Bijou on June 30. Chevalier De Kontski, a hale
octogenarian who studied under Beethoven and
frequently sat at meat with Mendelssohn, Spohr,
and other old masters, is the artist in question.
Glen and Co. are responsible for the Chevalier s
visit, and the affable Hugo Fischer is bringing his
unique celebrity into due notice.
At Poverty Point .
Nothing new under the sun. What is “ Trilby,” after
all, but the organ-man and his monkey ?
The one-time probable marriage between Boucicault
and Pattie Browne is quite “ off.”
A small touring co. in low water hit upon a notable
scheme the other day. Arriving at a township, with no
money to go on or back, the genius of the manager rose
to the occasion. The last pound scraped from their
united pockets was devoted to advertising, and next day
the township hoardings were placarded
“ To-night! To-night ! The All-Star Company at the
Mechanics’ Institute.
The Way of the World ! Thrilling Drama
FOR MEN ONLY !"
That night the hall was crammed to the doors. The per-
formance was mild as milk ; but the co. cleared enough to
pay its hotel bill and come back by rail.
Then is Doomsday near. Bellew actually thinks he is
too old for Romeo.
Mrs. Potter’s celebrated London dbbut, under the
auspices of the Prince of Wales, was as Anne Sylvester, in
Wilkie Collins’s “ Man and Wife.”
What a Joseph Surface Chas. Clark would make !
Madame Melba’s brother plays football with the Essen-
don Club.
Infallible sign of insolvent management : Performers
squinting round the curtain.
Baritone Brownlow stands accused of having bought a
racehorse in Adelaide. The other week he was going to
hunt for gold-mines. Is the ’orse his gold-mine?
Many girls have Crane necks, and not Trilby feet.
Ada Crossley and Lemmone, writes The Bulletin Lon-
don correspondent, took part in a Patti morning-concert.
Dressed in a neat grey dress-robe and wearing a big black
hat, Ada got a reception almost equal to that accorded
the diva herself. She deserves it; but is not and never
will be Clara Butt. Lenmion6 well justified his position
on the programme.
A Paris paper speaks of the arrival there of “ the three
cantatrices, Mile. Calv 6, Mdme. Melba, and Mdme. Frances
Saville (Fanny Simonsen), after tremendously successful
and, above all, lucrative tours in America.” Melba sings
at the Opera Comique with Reszk4, and then goes to
Switzerland. Frances Saville follows in “La Traviata”
at the same opera house.
The Argus praises Miss Gill’s performance in “ Points-
man, ’ because it was not “melancholy” like Maud
Williamson’s (the original). The Lizzie who can be cheerful
really deserves praise. In the prologue she starts her
lively career with the bailiffs in the house, and is aban-
doned by the man she is living with ; in act I. she is
denounced as his mistress in the presence of her happy,
innocent sister, who implores her to say she is his wife—
which truth compels her to deny; in the next she becomes
an “ honest woman,” and is bashed on the head by the
porter who “gave her his name,” and with whom she is
starving in a garret; in the last act the villain who aban-
doned her turns up and tries to slit her throat. These
trifling circumstances naturally make any ordinary woman
bright. The garret-scene has been plaved in lace skirts
silk dress and jewels, less “depressing” than rags, but
you can t call it art — or nature. It has taken the Argus
seven years to pick holes in a performance it eulogised on
the two separate occasions M.W. played the part.
A hunk of Melb. ’Erald taffy : “It is a verv
noticeable and pleasant feature that the increase of
popular admiration produces no effect upon Mdlle.
Trebelli other than perhaps one of personal delight. She
is natural and simple, and no applause spoils her.” This
for an artist, and daughter of an artist, who has to
many audiences ! Is it wonderful if such visitors speak
of Australia with something very like contempt-after
they have gone away ? 1 1
Musical Sydney!! The Protestant Hall co. lately
secured a verdict of a few paltry pounds against the
Metrop. Liedertafel, which Association has had'to put up
its shutters waiting for resuscitation. Sydney Lieder P
tafel lives from hand to mouth, and only a short while
ago millionaire Burdekin had to stump up the year’s
deficiency. If the coming Philharmonic Concerts are not
monetarily successful, bankruptcy will be the end thereof
Jennie Lee’s reappearance in antique “Jo,” at Drurv
Lane, the other week, was a considerable success, but some
of the newspaper-men said unkind things of the show as
a whole. Jennie s support included several blood rela-
th 0 e n iatte e rTn n poil7Einer/l’oW^artTGukw 4 Katie Le6 ’
taSpu'bS'Ass, i, T ;s sx
adopted them to temper the obviousness of Wm „ has
knees. “ All women are knock-kneed
—probably Solomon. We mention this author ‘ t 3'
tion to a friend in-kneed. some consola-
Miss Hamilton, and repeats Cora l/ B p’t !L 5 n age - das
with marvellous fidelity. Off, she is if !' J n , ensnls
with grotesque hair. S a piett Y’ P ale girl
The wonder of the Frantz Family now win, t>- >
show at Melb. Opera House is thesmalT 'V th Rickards s
the least of the girls, who looks fonr fWa ’ ff- 6 acr °bat,
shuttlecocks, and supports four or five weighty people
without breaking a stay-busk. One of her feats is to take
a lost man standing upright on her head, and sit on the
s taye and resume the perpendicular again without dis-
lodging the fellow on top. It is a fine object-lesson for
those persons who oppose womanhood-suffrage on the
e-round that woman is naturally a dainty creature who
must not be exposed to the risk of being trodden upon in
the rush for the poll. ~ ;*-•« ' '
Smellbourne’s medical men are rolling up in force to
sample the feats of the Frantz Family, at the Opera
House. And the women seem equally interested. T’other
n j<rht, as a well-known surgeon was leaving the theatre
with a party of ladies attached, he asked them how about
the following Thursday—would they rather see “ As You
Like It,” or come again to the Rickards show. With one
dulcet voice the visions replied, “Come here again.”
Which suggests that educated muscle is mightier than
the poetic "drama these times. Even Bellew’s legs seemed
as naught to them compared with the spectacle of Mrs.
Frantz "twirling her loving husband round her little
finger.
“ When the mail left,” wrote a pressman recently from
Paris, “ there was not one really successful play on the
boards here in which the leading female characters did
not take off a portion of their costumes.”
Here and there, Mrs. Potter somewhat mars the graces
of Shakespeare’s diction and the music of his blank verse.
The word “wrestled” becomes “reselled" (accent heavy
on the “ ell ”), “ cough” becomes “ korf,” and a “saucy
lackey ” is Pottered into a “ sossy leckey.” Indeed, the
woman who shone in “ As You Like It,” for her pleasant,
matter-of-fact way of treating the bard, was Miss Lynda
Raymond as Celia.
One new spot in the 8.8. co.’s last performance of the
“ Magistrate ” was Hay man, as Stipendiary Posket’s man-
servant. It was a new reading of the little part; a fat,
unctuous reading ; the performance of an oily, confiden-
tial flunkey, who had suspected his master of all kinds of
midnight riot from the beginning. People expected to
see Harman’s flunkey offer to sell Posket a harem, cheap,
when that magistrate had fallen from grace ; or else prod
him in the ribs and give him a photo, of a burlesque
female with very little on. The difference between Hay-
man and his predecessor in the part raises the question :
When the respectable old man is going out surreptitiously
at a late hour, apparently after drink and Flossies, should
the flunkey preserve his wooden aspect to show his perfect
training, or should he grin respectfully, just as a hint that
he knows what the old man is about, and that his silence
will require to be paid for? Obviously, if he is too
wooden, it may' not dawn on the old man that he needs
payment.
The express-train effect in “ The Pointsman,” at Melb.
Royal, was rather a failure on the opening night, owing
to the mechanist having fitted the engine with a heavier
boiler, or something, than it had carried at rehearsal.
Since the necessary- balance of weight, fore and aft, was
re-established, the train has travelled like wildfire, and
this sensation is one of the gaudiest jewels in Westma-
cott’s crown.
Manager Williamson, it is rumored, lies awake o’ nights
haunted by thoughts of the new panto, story which he is
slowly distilling from “Gulliver’s Travels” and “The
Light of Asia.” No brain on earth could keep itself free
from excitement under the circumstances. Why not try
a counter-irritant in the form of a musical comedy
decocted from the psalms of David and the “ Mystery of a
Hansom Cab,” working four hours a day on both schemes
at once ? It is by such desperate expedients that Augustus
Harris keeps himself going.
The most flattering thing they can say of one member
of a certain theatrical co. now visiting Australia is that
his wife is the prettiest woman on the English stage—and
he deserves it.
Beliew, in his dressing-room at the theatre, is not at all
the languid, poetic dreamer that gushing girlhood would
expect him to be. He doesn’t recline in a luxurious arm-
chair whilst a valet combs his curly white hair (quite
white by this time) and changes his boots. In fact, Beliew
dispenses with the assistance of a valet, or dresser, and
rushes through his own toilet in about the quickest time
on record. He is even younger and more spry off the
stage than on, and twenty-five years hence will probably
be as light on his feet as Boucicault pire at the same age.
Australia has a strong contingent of artistic and literary
successes in Europe, but some of the South American
States are also well represented. Mascagni and Leon-
cavallo were both students in Buenos Ayres ; and Bem-
berg, a rising composer, and author of “ Elaine,” is a
native of Brazil.
Maoriland demise :J. J. Kennedy. He first came into
notice doubling Dromio of Ephesus with Hoskins’s
Dromio of Syracuse in Melb., the Antipholi being the
Holloways, the most perfect match ever known, save the
brothers Webb, as the Dromios. After being a little
under the glare of the electric-light, J. J. had heartbreak-
ing Maoriland experiences.
Maggie Moore’s Melb. bills say she returns with “ a
specially selected co. and a grateful heart.”
M. Seeth, in the Berlin Circus, outdoes all precedent in
a show with twelve lions. He manoeuvres them in the ring
just as Fitzgerald does his Bronchos.
In a town of N. Y. State, they lately had a Trilby auc-
tion for the Wesleyan church. The young ladies of -the
congregation displayed their feet at the bottom of a cur-
tain, and these were mock-auctioned. All the buyers
blundered as to who was who and went wrong on their
goddesses.
Dr. M’Donagh has called into existence the Sydney
United Arts Club—an agglomeration of more or less
Bohemian figures. Mr. Nathan, the baritone, gh e,
birth to a select association for the proinotmn of esoteric
artistic genius, not to exceed 200 members in all. These
creations, however, are somewhat counterfeit imitations
of the late Orpheus Society. Its dominating spirit was
Kowalski who used to excel more particularly in the
surprise part ” of the programme, when he used to bring
into requisition the most prominent rear part of his
frame, to give tone to certain phrases which had been
previously played on the pianoforte by digital agencies.
Three of Sydney’s star musicians don’t pla\-in one an-
other s backyard just now.
A curious incident occurred at the first production in
tans of Kowalski’s opera, in five acts, “ Gilles de Bre-
tagne. The principal tenor broke his leg in the third
act, and, though in great anguish, he sang the music of
tne last two acts from the wings, propped up on a sofa,
It is reported that, on hearing of the mishap, Kowalski
was so moved that he remarked, in French, “Goo-od
grashus ! absolutely ! ”
A new part with lots of lines in it—and all his parts are
lull of words—is a weariness to Rignold’s brain. The
everlasting worries of management, in addition to acting,
extending over many years, with very little rest by the
" a ;V’ ■ ve e! ) sene d his capacity for study. Or killed his
enthusiasm for new parts—it’s much the same thing. A
eteran actor gets sick of learning fresh variations on the
l r ° lC s P eec^es he has spouted in so many different


rjWE IS MONEY !
“YOST ”
'DENSMORE”
"CALIGRAPH ”
BOSS
Machines of theiii
class.
M
United Typewriter Si Supplies Co. of London
and New York,
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; Temple Court, MELBOURNE ;
Barrack-st., PERTH ; Sub-agencies--Adelaide & Brisbane.
FREE TRIAL. FREE TUITION.
Write lor Catalogues and particulars.
ONTSERRAT
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
m Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserrat
used i n i ts prod notion
gold. Everywhere.
MILES T. CARROLL &. CO.,
Mining and Finance Brokers , Valuators. <kc. ,
PRACTICAL & RELIABLE FINANCIAL ADVISERS
-tn-
STOCK, SHARES, OR REAL ESTATE.
Trust Money advantageously Invested. Best
Interest and Security obtained.
Experts report on Mines throughout Australia.
70 Queen-st., Melbourne. [Telephone 1603.
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING.
BALATA
ELTIN
Is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SENT) FOR CATALOGUE to
"Wm. i\.d.am9 & Compy ,
Oil Merchants Engineers’ Furnishers.
71 Clarence-sb,, Stdjtbt ; 521-523 Collins-st., Mklbottrnr
The Wild-Cat Column.
The collapse of the Ward Farmers’ Association
In Maorilaud is one more interesting essav on balance-
sheets. The Association was the stock and station busi-
ness of Treasurer J. G. Ward floated into the usual
limited-liability co. Ward was managing director and
great panjandrum of the business. In its last balance-
sheet the Association showed a profit of £4236 for the
year, with £2280 remaining from the year before, and. it
declared a div. of 7 per cent., a bonus of 3 percent, to
shareholders on goods purchased, a rebate of 25 per cent,
on commission charged to shareholders on their wool-
sales, a rebate of 10 per cent, on other sales, and gave its
employes a bonus of 3 per cent, on salaries and otherwise
rioted around. The overdraft at the Colonial Bank was
set down at less than £l2OO. It is now'alleged on affidavit
that the overdraft was £26,000, but that a draft for
£25,000 was drawn on somebody or other as a matter of
form, and credited to the co. just before the balance-sheet
was made up, and that it was debited again afterwards,
so that the overdraft went up again to the original £26,000,
and was really £26,000 all the time. It is also averred that
a large amount owing to the bank on bills and drafts was
left out of the statement. Ward and the Association to-
gether owe the Colonial Bank £166,000, and the pro-
spective loss to the bank is about £lOO,OOO. The fallen
Treasurer himself owes £96,000 in various directions, and
sets down his assets at £4OOO, so he promises to pan
out for ninepence in the £. A considerable part
of the bank’s security consists of Ward’s unsup-
ported p.n. for £55,000, and another security ap-
pears to be his draft for 120,000; and part of the
Association’s assets consist of £38,513 owing by Ward
directly and indirectly. Its other assets consist mostly
of “book debts, £85,000,” of which nearly £40,000 are
said to be bad, and “ goodwill ” (of all things in the
world), “ £11,000.” The Association is expected to pan
out for 10s. or less in the £.
The Ward Farmers’ Association existed three
years altogether, and lost £lOO,OOO. Apparently to
the very last it kept putting down its bad debts
and its “goodwill” and Ward’s hopeless liabilities,
as good assets, and seemingly the Colonial Bank
also put down the Association’s dreadful overdraft
as a good asset to the very last. Ward, as boss
director, was following politics in Wellington, and the
Association far away in Invercargill practically ran itself.
No one seems to know exactly which was Ward and which
was the Association, or whether Ward knew how the
Association was going, or whether the Association knew
itself, or whether the amalgamation of the Colonial Bank
(which was staggering under the Association’s overdraft)
with the B.N.Z. was done by the Government to save
Ward in any way, or whether Ward was sacrificed to save
the bank, or whether the Colonial Bank directors urged
on the amalgamation because they were afraid to keep on
professing to regard Ward as a good asset any longer,
Anyhow, there is a fine, large, robust odour about the
balance-sheet business once more, and Treasurer Ward is
one more among the great army of politicians who have
gone under.
® * * * *
It is announced that the Commercial Bank of
Australia has practically arrived at an agreement with its
reconstructed depositors. The terms are understood to
include an extension of time for repayment of deposits,
and an extension of the dates for payment of calls, which
are to fall due henceforth every half-year instead of every
three months. The Commercial called up all its available
capital—£l,Boo,ooo, the biggest call in Australia—and its
shareholders are staggering so badly under the load that
some relief was much needed. In addition, the interest
on the reconstructed deposits is to be reduced to the rate
now current in Victoria, which probably means 3 per cent,
instead of the present 4J. On the £5,700,000 of deposits
this would mean a saving of £85,500 a year, and if the
falling-away in the profits doesn’t continue till this
saving is all swallowed up, and the board doesn’t
fool it away in paying dividends on preference
capital, but devotes it "rigidly to writing off its
bad debts, the Commercial should gradually get into a
better position. No one really knows what the Commer-
cial’s bad debts amount to —whether they are £500,000 or
£3,000,000 ; the revelation is put off, as in the cases of two
other Melbourne banks, until the Legislature passes a
new Companies Act authorising the writing-off of lost
capital ; therefore no one can even seriously profess to
know how long it will take to arrive at the better position
above mentioned—it may be three years, or again it may
be 50. But unless some hitch in the arrangements arises
at the eleventh hour the big institution should be
definitely on the up-grade. Another valuable concession
has been obtained from the old creditors, inasmuch as
new deposits are henceforth to have a prior claim on the
bank’s assets. This will enable the Commercial to get
new business which was formerly unattainable, and with-
out which it would be practically a dead concern going
through a process of unofficial liquidation.
The S.A. State Bank made a very small be-
ginning, the other day, by selling £20,000 worth of 3)4
per cent, bonds to provide money for lending out on
mortgage. The amount offered was vastly in excess of
the demand, and the price realised was something like
£lO3. The chief feature of the Land Mortgage depart-
ment of the S.A. State Bank up to date has been its
lamentable slowness in getting afloat and the miserable
smallness of its beginning ; £20,000 with which to start
the Credit Foncier business is a mere drop in the bucket.
Moreover, the management has done nearly two months
hard thinking before it made even this small commence-
ment. Still, it has begun well enough in one sense ; the
£5OO or £6OO premium realised on this small issue is a
considerable amount towards the working expenses of the
institution.
Some day The Bulletin hopes to see a State
Land Bank started on a still better basis than that of
S.A., good as the principle of it undoubtedly is. In
N.S.W., for example, the average paper currency afloat is
about £1,400,000 or £1,500,000. If the State became the
sole issuer of paper currency it could easily keep this
amount afloat with a basis of £200,000 or £300,000 of gold,
which represents a sufficient margin for fluctuations. It
would be necessary, of course, to devise means of making
the banks circulate the State paper, which they would
probably avoid doing if possible ; but this could be
effected by the simple and effective, if somewhat high-
handed, process of requiring them to keep a proportion
of their local reserves in Government currency. This
arrangement would mean that the State Land Bank
would have, say, £1,100,000 to go into the mortgage-
business with, and this amount would cost it only 2 per
cent.—the present bank-note tax, which would, of course,
be lost —and the cost of maintenance. If the State chose
to keep its note-issue in the same dilapidated condition as
some of the private issues, the item of maintenance could
be kept down very low. And against this it would have
the profit, whatever it may be, that accrues through loss
of notes by fire, water, and all manner of accidents. The
State could conduct the paper-money business on a far
smaller gold-margin than the private banks, simply because
the reserve would be concentrated, and it would be a matter
of keeping one gold reserve and one margin, instead of a
dozen. Also, it could maintain it on a cheaper rate, be-
cause it would involve one printing and engraving opera-
tion instead of 12, or thereabouts. A State Land Bank,
with only the proceeds of its paper-issue for capital,
Wild lend money, so far as its capital went, at 4 per cent.,
md make a good profit out of the business.. When the
ST.S.W. and Victorian State Banks get afloat, if they ever
Jo, it would be worth while to consider the advisability of
Tunning the mortgage business on this basis.
* * * *
The A.M.P. Society advertises that it will lend
farge sums on mortgage at 4 per cent. Where does the
reconswindled bank, with its load of 4i per cent, deposits,
coine in under such conditions as these ? Also, if the
private borrower can get money in Australia at 4 percent.,
at what rate could Government loans be floated? And, if
rates like this are going to prevail in Australia, what is to
become of a certain little insurance-society which offers
to keep the amount of any death-claim in hand, if di-
rected, for an apparently indefinite number of years, and
pay the insured’s widow 5 per cent, interest on it, without
charging any extra premium for this big additional risk ?
The unfortunate Land Mortgage Bank of Vic-
toria is appealing to its British debenture-holders
( t1)00, 000 worth of them) for a reduction of interest from
L 4 per cent., and the debenture-holders are
‘ trunking about it.” Also, it makes a call ,of £1 per
share equal to £250,000 in all -on its miserable Victorian
shareholders. If the reduction of interest is conceded
the Land Mortgage misery should pull through and
become a dividend-paying concern again—some day. If
not, its prospects seem hardly worth mentioning. The
present value of shares is something less than nothing, or
thereabouts.
* • * *
The Guardian Accident and Guarantee Insur-
ance Co. (Melb.). which recently went into liquidation,
makes a call of 14s. 6d. per share for winding-up purposes.
The list of calls in Victoria these times stretches out
almost to the crack of doom.
* * * *
N.S.W. Government alleges that it is consider-
ing a scheme for the fire insurance of all State buildings
in a State insurance fund. This should mean a consider-
able saving, inasmuch as the average fire insurance
premium is about twice as much as the risk actually justi-
fies, the balance being absorbed in working expenses.
* * * *
South Melbourne municipal council is having a
riot over a bill for £6 for coach-hire for the, council when
it went to the funeral of an alderman’s deceased wife—
the said alderman being the man who moved that the bill
should be paid. Therefore, the ratepayers pay that alder-
man’s expenses for attending his own wife’s funeral.
Another row is over an account for £2 12s. for advertising
certain cookery classes “ formed under the auspices of
Lady Brassey ” —the S. Melb. council not only grovels to
Lady Brassey but even to her cookery class. It was
decided to charge both bills to the miserable taxpayer,
and the municipal auditor will pass them or else get the
sack. The beginning, middle, and end of an auditor’s
business is to pass things without making any beastly
fuss about them.
» * • *
According to a Vic. Supreme Court decision,
“ gift-money ” from one live person to another live person
(not being a legacy) is not “ income ” within the meaning
of the Income-tax Act, and is not therefore liable to
income-tax. A chance for an odd case or two : A. and B.
have each £lO,OOO in personalty. A. makes B. a “gift”
of his £lO,OOO ; B. does ditto to A. with hist £lO,OOO. Do
A. and B. thus escape income-tax each on £10,000?
* » * *
The pecuniary loss to the owners of ships lying
strike-bound at Newcastle—reckoning wages, interest on
capital, insurance, and harbor-dues —is set down at £2OOO
per day.
* * * *
The Newcastle coal-strike has entered on a new
and threatening phase. The men had almost resolved to
go back to work, and the owners were asked to state their
terms. These were practically a reduction on the rates
previously in force, with a proviso that the unions would
no longer be recognised. On this last vital clause the
men have decided to hold out at all risks. They point
out that it is only by union that they have gained decent
conditions of labor, that the union is the only thing which
stands between them and absolute tyranny. Which is
true. The pits remain closed, and the owners are not
importing other labor, as in the last great strike, but
appear content to wait the issue. The outlook is unpro-
mising all round.
* * * *
N.S.W. Govt, and B.H. Water Supply Ltd.
threaten to come into conflict. Three months ago Govt.
Analyst reported the water “ unfit for human consump-
tion,” but no serious steps were taken to improve the
quality. The officer again makes the same report, where-
upon the Minister has notified that unless effective
measures are adopted the statutory fine of £5O per day
will be collected—if it can be. Meantime, the water con-
tinues good enough for mines’ supply; and the po. worries
about little else, apparently. Its troubles about the town,
which uses the tap-water when it can’t get lead-polluted
rain-water to drink. Any town which hereafter permits a
money-grubbing foreign co. to get a monopoly of its
water-supply almost deserves to be poisoned by degrees.
* * * *
Little Jimmy Mirams still hangs on to the
assertion that Melb. Premier Permanent Building Asso.
was a healthy concern when he left it, and that the cele-
brated Murphy loans didn’t amount to “ playing ducks
and drakes with the money.” The world is too tired to
dispute Jimmy’s figures. Enough for the average critic
that the Murphy tribe drew half a million sterling, or
thereabouts, from the society, for building houses which
nobody could have been reasonably expected to live in.
* * * *
A recent interesting Companies Act decision is
that of Mr. Justice Romer to the effect that the Statute
of Limitations begins to run in favor of a co. against its
shareholders inre a div. from the date fixed for payment.
In reply to the contention that the Statute did not run at
all as against shareholders by reason of a trust, the Judge
said that a co. was not a trustee of a dividend for its
shareholders. All which renders Unclaimed Dividends
legislation more imperative than ever.
It certainly does surprise the world to hear that
Mr. Howell expects the historically-boomed White Rock
mine, lately acquired for a song, to pay divs. on the whole
capital of the big ore-smelting co. The ore improves with
sinking, and the many small veins in the surface quarry
are expected to merge into a great and rich central lode.
Assays from the main shaft now being sunk give 160 z.,
450 z., and 51oz. of silver respectively per ton of ore, in
place of the average of lOoz. to 12oz. per ton shown in the
millions of tons exposed in the surface-workings. The
development of the mine is now proceeding rapidly, and
it is intended to erect a plant capable of treating 1000 tons
of ore per day.
* * * *
White Rock, it will be remembered, was once
floated with a capital of £1,000,000. Many persons thought
that the galena stringers distinguishing the show might
one day turn into a defined lode in the deeper ground.
£lO,OOO would have proved it one way or another. Instead
of that, £70,000 was spent on plant to treat ore too poor
to pay.
• * * *
In preparation for a silver co. flotation boom,
lonv-abandoned mineral leases are being applied for all
round Broken Hill. More applications have been lodged
during the last two months than in all the time since the
collapse of the boom 7 years
The British concentrating plant got to work
last week. The Burnham syndicate (Danvers Power,
F.G.S., of Melb., is the Australian representative) will
have the furnaces in blast at the end of August.
* • * *
The B.H. Proprietary’s “pay ” for the week
ended June 12 was the heaviest on record.
* * * *
Prospecting westward in the B.H. North con-
tinues with'extremely disappointing results in hard
mineralised country. But in the ore body—what share-
holders would like to be able- to call the Eastern vein—
exposures of milling ore have lately been satisfactory.
With every damp day at Broken Hill there
comes the odor of burning Oregon from Block 11 of the
Proprietary. But the affected ground is well walled up,
and as immense quantities of sand have been washed in,
so that anything more than smouldering is out of the
Question, no uneasiness whatever is felt By the way, in
their recent circular the directors own up at last to the
probable loss of a quantity of valuable oxidised ore
through the fire. % „ ■
Block 14 is adding to its concentrating-mill on
the mine a plant for treating the zinc concentrates,
hitherto put aside “for future operation ; ” Mr, -Greenway s
plans Underground, this mine, which employs 460 men,
looks better than at any time since attention was given to
the sulphides. It is on the western branch of the lode
that the prospects are so much improved, though the ore
continues of low grade—a line for those who expect that,
because the western branch in the Junction is rich, it
must also be rich in the North. Why not, instead—As
the western branch in Block 14 is very poor, it must also
be poor in the North ?
* * * *
Broken Hill answers Westralia’s boast that, in
the first five months of the year, the fields produced
£320,702 worth of gold, by the approximation that in
April and May alone it produced £334,000 worth of silver
and lead—l,soo,OOOoz. of the former and 14,000 tons of the
latter.
♦ » » *
Sample of the unreliableness of the N.S.W.
Mines Dept.’s bulky annual report. On page 78 it is
stated that at Broken Hill 4297 miners won £2,719,946
worth of silver, lead, and ores. Page SI says that 4297
miners were working in the district for silver. But p. 14
says that all the silver, silver-lead, and ores won in the
whole province during 1895 was valued at £1,642,671. As
a matter of fact, the statement on p. 78 is slightly over a
million out. The table showing the annual export of
silver and lead is, by the way, notoriously wrong and mis-
leading : in some past years credit has been taken for
metal exported at Cockburn (from Broken Hill), and
again when re-exported at Sydney, whither it had been
shipped from Port Pirie.
• * * *
Opal-mining at White Cliffs (N.S.W.) looks up.
For 18 months past the sensitive gem-market has been
overstocked, but buyers have come about again lately.
Good stone has, of course, always had demand. Now,
also, an English co. has been formed to take over the two
chief properties—Turner & Richardson’s and the Wil-
cannia Co.’s. A higher tribute percentage for deep-won
gem has recently brought many windlasses on to the
field ; before, it was all shallow pit-prospecting.
» * * *
Mt. Browne, in the far N.W. corner of N.S.W.,
petitions for a Govt, battery, on the terms proposed by
the Mining Conference and approved by the Minister.
* * * *
Eleanora, Hillgrove, N.S.W. : 436 tons, 5060 z.,
the record yield. Said that with sufficient water to treat
tailings as well as ore this mine can produce 600 oz. a fort-
night. Also, that the best rock is coming within a short
distance of the Garibaldi boundary. In other respects
the writer hears that this mine is looking much better—so
Bull may pull out, after all.
• * * *
Cable: “The Gallymont G.M. Co. (N.S.W.)
has been formed with a capital of £300,000, and is issuing
shares to the value of half that amount.” This is evi-
dently intended for the “Galley Swamp”—several old
leases taken over some months ago by the Anglo-Austra-
lian Exploration Co. of London. If so, the shock of such
a capital is alone enough to kill them.
* • m *
Another back-somersault by the Mt. Drysdale.
Two or three weeks ago it was announced that what was
thought to be a new pipe of rich ore had been struck. A
big yield was predicted, and rumors of a great quantity of
amalgam accumulating on the plates spread themselves
about. As the writer remarked, the public stood off —one
mine one boom in N.S.W., once bitten 100 times shy. The
total yield is 170 oz little more than from the low-
grade rock, and the poor, innocent S.M. Herald allows
it to appear that the great quantity of amalgam for so
little gold has puzzled the shareholders, and “ it is thought
that too much amalgam was allowed to accumulate on
the plates.” As a smart Yank said recently, one of the
most deplorable things in N.S.W. is the child-like ignor-
ance of the press in relation to that industry.
* * * *
We thought as much: “Inverell.—The members
of the syndicate that discovered the General Gordon mine,
W.A., have each received £BOO in cash and 320 fully-paid
up shares. Another syndicate is in course of formation.”
« '* * *
Woodstock G.M. (N.S.W.), after many a great
report, has had a crushing. The same old story : when
the battery goes up the mine goes down. 280 tons for
lOOoz., including 32 tons of seconds.
* * * *
An old-time Broken Hill draughtsman writes
over from Coolgardie : —“ lam at the ancient game—
making lodes for people.”
* * * *
Some Melb. men have pooled the bulk of the
W.A. Goldfields Water Supply scrip, and anticipate turn-
ing the parcel over to a British shindykit for £75,000.
And—er —a few of the aforesaid crowd want a big div.
very badly.
* * * *
Colin Templeton, St. Albans Wilson’s smart
right-hand man, was an original fifteen-pounder in George
Brookman’s Adelaide Prospecting Party that found the
Great Boulder, Ivanhoe, &c. So discrediting were various
expert reports on the properties that Templeton sold, for
£2OOO odd, an interest that to-day would stand him in
about £200,000. It is interesting to recall that Capt.
Oates was the only expert out of the early samplers who
had a good word for the shows. His summing-up:
“ Phenomenal returns should be produced.”
* * * »
Adelaide Exchange has 130 odd W.A. co’s on
its list. Paper capital, £7,000,000. A heavy slump would
paralyse W.A.
* * * *
Although the Ballarat-owned Morning Star, at
Mt. Magnet (W.A.), started the half with divs. it closed
the term £1389 in debt. However, late yields, vide
446 tons for 5080 z., have put the co. quite on its feet.
Six months milling : 3984 tons for 26190 z. 14dwt. ; divs.,
£3937 10s. Big yields are over, for the lode is roguing on
the co. When the Britishers spotted the formation’s
patchiness they “cried-off” their buying offer. Co.’s
wages-bill tots over £lOOO a month.
*.* * *
Bank of England shares at £7 or so are an
instance of the inflated values of Kalgoorlie scrip. The
mine is strongly suspected to be very patchy ; and until it
is better proved that fact ought to bar its shares being
worth more than a fraction of their present price.
* * * *
Friendship G.M. Co., Coolgardie, has been
registered ; capital, £85,000, of which £55,000 is issued
for public subscription. About three years since work
was started on this mine—situated in a very un-
savory neighborhood three miles S.E. of Coolgardie.
* * * *
Every night in the week, bar Sunday (which is
given up to drunks), the main street of Hannan’s is
crowded with scrip-dealers of every size and condition—
from the modest buyer of 100 in shilling stock, to the
man who bosses half-a-dozen shindy kits. Lately the
police have been specially engaged in keeping back the
crowds that surround the open calls.
* * * *
Weights and measures, W.A. —30cwts. 1 ton of
ore.
» * * *
Burbank’s Birthday Gift, Coolgardie, was at
latest having another 500 tons put through at the Lon-
donderry. Seven shafts on the property; fair gold has
been got in most of them. None, however, are any depth.
If the mine can survive its proximity to Coolgardie, it
ought to be a future div.-payer.
* • » *
A wire from Mt. Magnet, W.A., describes two
miners dollying 7460 z. gold from four whisky-cases of
stone. “ Save the Londonderry and the Wealth of
Nations the specimens from this whisky-case show ex-
celled everything—one of the most marvellous sights ever
seen in W.A. They have six more whisky-cases full of
stone.” What has become of the whisky ? Is it in the
wire ?
* * » *
Kalgoorlie, Friday.—“ Hill End West, at Broad
Arrow, has struck good gold in the shaft. An assay of
21b. of stone resulted in 12dwt. of gold, equal to the extra-
ordinary yield of 500 oz. to the ton.” This is published
under the heading—“ A yield of 500 oz. to the ton.” Thank
Heaven, the public are not fooled like newspapers !
* * * *
Coolgardie.—“ A rich lode, with abundance of
water, has been struck in the Hodgkinson mine. The
formation is similar to the Great Bouldf r.” Strange that
no formations like Bayley’s Reward are being struck now !
“ News has been received from Mount Magnet
that Kelly and party have struck an ironstone dyke
averaging 250 z. to the ton.” Most dykes are large, so
this should make a nice low-grade “ proposition.” The
boom is on right enough when such things appear in
print. Alas ! where are the great finds of a few months
ago ? What becomes of them, and where are all the tons
of gold they produce ?
“A trial crushing of 34 tons by a dry-blowing
machine at Mt. Charlotte (W.A.) yielded 240 z. The
machine was very slow, but otherwise was successful.”
Which is equivalent to saying that a mine would be a
success if it had more gold. In all ore-reducing machinery
time is the essence of the contract.
* * * *
Ivanhoe, at Hannan’s, the manager reports the
most important discovery ever made in the mine in the
eastern lode. Driven 7ft. without a sign of the hanging
wall, all good stone, and iSiri. of it, he says, will yield
10 to 15 oz. to the ton. The Bulletin hears that, under
the advice of a German expert, quite a number of German
princes and princesses have got into this mine.
* * * *
The secretary of the Boulder North West G.M.
Co. has sent a letter to Adelaide Stock Exchange intimat-
ing that it had been found that serious misrepresentations
had been made to the directors re that mine, also that
the ore in the mine contained no visible gold. A board-
meeting has been called to deal with the situation. Truth
is often sure but slow. It is remarkably slow with regard
to scores of other W.A. mines against which the same
indictment might be made.
• * * *
New Normanby, Ballarat, barren of divs. last
half, but prospects are cheerful. Clean-up shows 1800 oz.
6dwt. from 6440 tons - a heavy drop from the previous
term’s 22120 z. 13dwt. from 6512 tons. Co. paying ex’s
and has .1200 with which to shaft-sink the other 100 ft.
to get below the improved body of stone making
strongly underfoot from the 1000 ft. level.
* » * *
Hope, .Wood’s Point (Vic.), month’s stamping,
550 tons for 3630 z. 14dwt.; 6th 6d. div. Good enough for
the old-timer. Co. increasing its battery to 20-head to
thump bigger divs. out of the several years’ stone in sight.
* * * *
Golden Gate,Ballarat, which has been “coming”
many times the last eight years, now seems to be really
on the verge of doing something for call-payers. Working
a flat make of stone proved payable 60ft. wide, and shortly
expects to cut the two shoots of good stone tackled at
shallower levels. Six months record, 537 tons for 151 oz.
lOdwt.; average, 6dwt. Would pay if the battery could
be kept going full-time.
% * * *
North Duke, Maryborough (Vic.) has flopped
badly the last half: 7874 fathoms wash-dirt yielded
41780 z. Bdwt —average, lOdwt. 14Jgr. per fathom, as
against 18dwt. 12gr. the previous term. And the div.
slump—£l3,7so to a paltry £1250 ! wherefore scrippers
who got in on the strength of the directors’ boast that
“ the mine for the next half-year will yield a handsome
return,” must feel nasty. The North, with £985 in hand
and the mine just paying its way, doesn’t look to have
too healthy a future, and the crowd, to avert a crisis, are
fixing a combine with the youthful Duke United, and
intend to gradually dump the pair on J. Bull. A very
celebrated boomer, whose wife is heavily interested in
the Duke Estate, the royalty grabber, is manipulating the
deal.
* * * *
Chalk’s Freehold, Carisbrook (Vic.), has divd.
£23,750 on £44,500 called up. Gold won, £186,270, the
biggest “ cuts ” £80,354 to contract labor and £57,400 to
wages, and royalty £B4OO. Past half has given £lB,OOO
from gold, panning ss. 9d. per share, and leaving £782 to
the good. Chalk’s is making divs. from a very low
quality of wash-dirt, but by the way the stock is droop-
ing the crowd inside doesn’t think too much of the chance
of keeping divs. up.
* * * *
Bendigo millionaire Lansell’s famous 180 has
turned him in about £1,000,000. And still its prospects
are good.
* * * *
According to engineer Thwaites, of Melb. Board
of Works, over £20,000 worth of produce was taken off
Werribee sewage-farm last year, although not a ton of
sewage has yet reached it. Next year he reckons it will
double that sum, equal to 7500 tons, and when the works
are complete it will easily raise 15,000 tons of produce an-
nually, lowest value £BO,OOO yearly. Reads like a mining-
report.
* * ♦ *
C. Fraser, the young Melbourne ex-bank-
clerk, and inventor of the new railway-carriage door-lock,
has, The Bulletin hears, received an offer of £35,000 cash
and 5 per cent, interest in all profits from the sale of the
patent, for his rights in the invention. He is unlikely to
accept, as English syndicates offer better terms. He will
probably go ’Ome and deal.
* * * *
Charters Towers May output:—ls,l6l tons,
15,8470 z. Divs., £29,058.
* * * *
Leigh’s Creek (S.A.) coal sales are being pushed
with fair success at B.H. —helped on by the disarrange-
ment of Newcastle trade.
V * * »
The new issue of 60,000 contributing shares in
the North Mount Lyell Mining Co. (No Liability) was
applied for twice over, so the float may be set down
as a decided success. Shareholders received 100 paid-
up shares in the new co. for each share held in the
old one, and up to the 17th they had priority of applica-
tion for the contributing shares. Very few, if any, of the
new shares reached the hands of the general public.
* * * *
How to float an “ extended ” wild cat, as dis-
closed by a certain Tas. mining syndicate. The property
was formerly held and abandoned by another co. The
present promoters reprinted on their prospectus that co.’s
reports, said reports being, of course, favorable. The
responsibility is shifted further back by the disclosure that
the report in question was pirated from a third co., which
held the ground in the dark ages. It also transpires
that the present co. doesn’t hold a quarter of the second
co.’s territory.
* * » *
It will interest a lot of people to read that “ Mr.
T. Caradoc Kelly, the well known New Guinea explorer,”
is now a temporary “ lion ” in London, where he figures
as a coach “ to teach all the ins-and-outs of gold-mining,
&c.” “ Etcetera ”is good. He has already, it seems, been
appointed bear-leader to the sons of several notable per-
sons, and takes them with him to Auckland, M.L., via
Coolgardie. “T. Caradoc Kelly” The Bulletin pre-
sumes to be identical with the gentleman who, years ago,
had so heated ah argument with some stubborn Vic.
miners over oertain alleged samples of New Guinea gold.
* * * *
It is often easier to get into W.A. than out
of it. The Absconding Debtors’ Act is often arbitrarily
brought into play at Albany just as a man is stepping
aboard. De Rose, one of the Great Boulder crowd, was
one of the last victims. A big growl concerning the abuse
of this Act is imminent.
* * * •
The statements that Macpherson’s party got
IOOOoz. gold in six months’ prospecting in the Woodlarks,
New Guinea ; that another party of five got lOOoz. each
in three months ; and that mining-plant is to be put up
at Sudest, where rich quartz is being got, is so much more
fat thrown on the gold-boom fire. But the man who gets
gold in New Guinea earns it.
* * * *
Sulphide-treating works are to go up at Swansea,
Wales.


ef
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION .
rj’HIS Zotion cures Swelling and Sandy Blighty
-*• Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight •
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the Sight. By post, 3s. per bottle.
Solely by H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing -
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRUHIO
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING PICNICING
OFFICE BUSH SPORT
PROMENADE TRAVELLING and EVENING WEAR
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED
• DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &, BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
TYPHOID:
> llJctll
_ , - Melb. Health Board
Out and out Jeffery’s are the best filters.” The Pro
fessor of Hygiene, Melb. University sav s • “
fiUer * are powerle ** Win* germs so small as tyMd
verms; use a JEFFERY FILTFR - t
Jeffery Filter principle is highly recommended I
President N.S.W. Health Board Write or ' L '
PEARDON, 4 Bond-street, SYDNEY • or J v
W SprinS - St ” MELBOURNE. Prices, 15s. 6d to i ’
sd
—THE—
herculesshirt.
I OS I | |{ Kfc to any part of the colonies.
y
®* ,,ple Shi,,t on recei Pt of P. 0.0., 7_- ;or:w . Ilalf-doz.
and utis'lirfnk-'d>l'| U ' ll f°* station wear: is very durable
heiirht chit t httad w,th f-eble collar clips. State
Write for sample. bU,e ’ »>snally won
* inL I»KO,? m ISilsbnm.
Society
COOLALTA
CAMEO
N.S.W. Vice-Royalty having had play-
actors to dinner, Gimletdom is mourning—“ What-
ever is Eigureheadedness a-coming to? We
thought Lord ’Ampton was a ‘ God-fearing ’ man,
like Mr. Want, and his other Ministers ; we have
seen him presiding over gatherings ‘ for the King’s
service; ’ but, oh ! the snares that the Enemy sets
for the Exalted Horn ! ” There has been talk of
a deputation of the Salt of the Earth to point out
to “Brother ’Ampden” the pernicious example he
is setting to the tender and innocent and imitative
Lambs of the Fold, and to then and there pray
with him, for him, and at him. “Let us pluck
this Brand from the burning,” says one inspired
wag.
* * * »
Gov. Brassey was made an Oddfellow the
other day. It was a great occasion with much
frill and he-millinery about it, and the people who
made Brassey an Oddfellow were :
G.M. Header, acting as N.G. of the lodge, supported by
P.G. Tucker, of the Earl of Hopetoun Lodge, and P.G.
A. M. Pool. The V.G. was Deputy P.G.M. J. Sternberg,
M.L.C., Bendigo ; and his supporters were P.G.M. 0. H.
Bayley, and P.G.M. E. J. Dixon. The Grand Master act-
ing on this occasion was P.G.M. G. H. Hobson, supported
by P.G.M. Geo. Turner, the Premier, and P.G.M. E. L.
Zox, M.L.A. ; secretary, G. A. Wood, of the Earl of Hope-
toun Lodge; acting warden, S. H. M'Gowan, provincial
V •"
C.S. of the Bendigo district; 1.G., P.G.M. H. B. Hughes ;
O. P G.M. J Lang; conductors P.G.M. W. Beckwith
and C.S. J. H. Taylor; metropolitan directors, A. Bell
and P. H. Boy. Among the visiting brethren were
P. Thos. Miller, P.G.M. P. Power, P.G.M. W. H.
Barber, Deputy P.G.M. Mackey, South Melbourne ; and
P.G. R. Barrows, Bendigo.
What The Bulletin would like to know now is
this : Supposing the P.G.M. had got drunk on
the occasion, and the N.G. and the Provincial
C.S. were taking him home with difficulty, and an
officious policeman ran them in despite the fact
that the O.G. P.G.M. offered bail, how would the
Deputy P.G.M. explain the matter to the metro-
poiitan M.U. 1.0.0. F. ? This is a point that
wants to be cleared up at once.
* * * #
Gov. Brassey’s recent lecture on Imperial
Eunuchty was a miserable fiasco in point of
interest. Not ten people in the whole assemblage
were able to follow the statistics which “ Uncle
Tom ” ladled out so lavishly ; for the speech was
little else but a string of figures showing that
Britain exported so many tons of sausage-casings
in 1863, while at the present day an increase was
observable of, &c., &c. In fact, the whole lecture
was practically a resume of W hitaker’s Almanac
for 1895, filling 40 pp. type-written matter, which
His Ex. read out slowly and with difficulty. Yet
the “loyal” crowd, which filled the hall and
bulged out on the other side, yelled vociferously
every time His Ex. stopped at a hard word, and
the Argus was loud in laudation the following
day. In the Argus’s view, Gov. Brassey is a sort
of standing rebuke to atheists.
* * * *
Gov. Brassey is growing more and more
unpunctual. He is usually 20 minutes late at the
theatre on a V.R. night, and at the recent St.
Vincent Hospital Ball (advertised for 8.30) the
first programmed dance did not start until an
hour-and-a-half later owing to the vice-regal
party’s delay.
* * * *
An ingenious representative of vice-royalty
thought lately that it would be a graceful recogni-
tion of her obligations if she adopted a young
aboriginal girl, as she had been told Governoress
Duff once did. Accordingly half-a-dozen young
aboriginals were rounded up and presented for
inspection. “ I wanted an aboriginal—a black
girl,” exclaimed the lady, after a survey. “ Ye-e-s,
your ladyship,” the tame official replied, “ but the
aboriginals on our mission station are all like
these.” “But these girls are white.” “Nearly
white, your ladyship: but they’re the only
aboriginals we have. One that was all black we
were keeping for a curiosity, but she died.”
* * * *
Judge Windeyer, on the Privy Council,
would remove its one merit to Australians. Its
members would then at least unofficially know the
“ nicest ’’people when it happened to meet them.
Andrew Usher
and Co., the famous
whisky - distillers,
have, it is cabled,
given £lOO,OOO to
build a new Edin-
burgh town - hall.
Most town-halls are
merely places where
they drink whisky.
* * *
A delicious
piece of N. Q. alder-
manism. The muni-
cipality’s books
had long been un-
posted and un-
balanced ; alto-
gether, things were
in a hideous mess.
Defalcations were
alleged against an
official on evidence
more or less strong,
and legal proceed-
ings were sug-
gested; but the
boss alderman
naively remarked
that, though Mr.
Snifter had hum-
bugged them terri-
bly, they must re-
member that he was
the husband of the
daughter of their
second Presidents
which, of course,
carried the day,
and an amendment
was passed that a
letter be written
Mr. Snifter asking
him to return and
explain. Of course,
Mr. Snifter re-
turned. They
always do.
A correspondent: Gov. L unington brought
to q. three dogs-a fox terrier, a Scotch terrier,
i jrish setter fnenf-lv svmLoHonn n ’
an “. an , lrLStl setter (neatly symbol cal). Q. quar-
ant me laws provide six months detention for
imported canines, but Lord Lamington’s dogs
were not detained a single day. One law for the
rich, another for the poor, and a third for the
ornamental figurehead. And the official who, of
ah others, is supposed to keep the laws is the first
to break them.
* * * *
Jusfcice-MinisterGould’s statement, inreply
to a Parliamentary question, that no N.S.W.
divorce-cases are ever heard in camera except when
“ respect to public decency or morality ’’ made
such a course desirable, is mere impudent shuffle.
Why should it be always “in the interests of
public decency and morality ” to suppress all
mention of the divorce-cases of powerful poli-
ticians ?
* • * *
The harricterial mnlentinn fhnf Ar,l„
, J n f Ddmscerlal contention that only such
delicate cases as nullity-of-marnage suits are heard
in camera in N.S.W. divorce-court, is most mislead-
mg. Several “society” and political divorce-
cases have been heard in absolute privacy during
late years, even though not technically in
camera.” The court, in these cases, sat either
before or after ordinary hours, and a sharp look-
out was kept that nobody who wasn t wanted
should be on the premises. Also, the names m
these special cases were kept right out ot the p
lished lists. Wasn’t that practically in camera .
.** ■ * ,
Hell is the place we go to when we don t
die. Everyone goes to hell who lives long enough.
A quaint dog and law item comes
from Melbourne. There were two
cousins, and one of them had his dog
stolen. Shortly after he met the second
cousin with a dog which seemed to be
the same dog to a hair, and promptly
called him a thief, whereupon he re-
ceived a “ woodener ”in the eye. I hen
the man with the assaulted eye laid an
information, and his assailant was ar-
rested in the morgue, where he was in the
act of identifying his sister, whose dead
body had just been recovered from the
Yarra. The case came into court, where
prosecutor with-
drew his charge out
of sympathy for
defendant’s be-
reavement ; and
Panton, P.M., com-
plimented him on
his kindly con-
duct, and said nice
fatherly things
about harmony m
families ; and de-
fendant asked if he
couldn’t have his
sympathetic rela-
tive arrested there
and then for per-
jury, and refused to
be harmonious on
any terms. Just
here a police-ser-
geant persuaded
him to leave rapid-
ly. What became
of the dog doesn’t
appear, but The
Bulletin is pre-
pared to swear that
if the cousin with
the dead s ister
does prosecute the cousin with the lost dog for
perjury, and the case comes before Mr. Panton, he
will receive small consideration. When a magis-
trate has just made some really beautiful remarks
about peace and harmony, and thereupon one of
the allegedly harmonious parties demands the
arrest of the other one, it makes the beak look
so beastly incongruous that he doesn’t forget it
for a long time.
PROBABLY UNMEANT.
HE: "I haven't seen much of you of late, Miss Broad."
SHE : "Well, I never did sec much of YOU, Mr. Small.”
They now call N.S.W. Divorce Court the
Decameron-there have been so many Boccaccian
episodes decided there in camera.
* * *
Pathetic advt. from the Sydney D T •
jyj^ATRIMONIAL.—Gent., 32, little deformed, wishes
„ correspond with lady with means. 1 p n
George-st West. ’
Even malformation asks that his “ future ” shall
have means’ ! What is the marriage-price of
cripples ? It all depends upon how the man i s de-
formed. A hunchback is probably worth more
than a noseless man. Think of the widow whose
mind fluttered concerning the bullet- wound of
Sterne s Uncle Toby.” “< I will show you the
very place, said Uncle Toby ”_ 0 r words to tW
e ans”f deformed ” and a “lady with
’ *
The new Australian parsonical vogue of
smoke concerts’’should prove a valuable means
of converting the nigger. “Poor fellow me! You
gib it bacca ” T -is the Lord’s Prayer of the Aus-
tralian aboriginal.
* * * *
The post of Comptroller-General of N.S.W.
prisons is an office created at the instigation of
the late Parkes, and was, in one of his numerous
dark days, offered to him as a steady billet by the
rulers of the hour.
* * * *
The advent of lady students at Sydney
University has resulted in the stiff-necked autho-
PLAIN CARD, JURER, EUCHRE.
THE BEAK : “How, sir, what were you doing?"
MONTE MAN : “Doin'? Why real good business till this fool cut in on me! ”
THE BEAK : “ Umpht his cut, my deal. Three months.”
rities paying tardy respects to Mrs. Grundy by
the deleting of “ blue ” passages in the text-books,
* * * *
A Yic. law penalises people who omit to
have their names and addresses printed on their
carts. South Melb. Bench deliberately repeals
the law in the case of “ well-known ” and respect-
able defendants. As usual.
One of the big-
gest Australian
banks has a ghost
in one of its city
offices presum-
ably the spectre of
an old teller who
died some time
ago. He was a
grumpy person of
superhuman accu-
racy, and all the
days of his service
at the counter he
occupied the same
pigeon-box; he re-
garded any at-
tempt to shift him
from it as an in-
fringement on his
rights, and re-
tained possession
till his last illness
came upon him.
No other man has
prospered there
since. The best
teller in the bank
can’t keep his cash
right three days
running if he oc-
cupies that parti-
cular compart-
ment ; the spectre
of the deceased
comes along and
makes him two-
pence short or six-
pence over, and
then he has to
spend hours over-
hauling his ac-
counts and trying
to arrive at a bal-
ance. Three forged
cheques have been
paid by the bank
since the old man
pegged out, and
they have all been
paid at his com-
partment ;and the
only time of late
years that the
bank was taken in
with a bogus note
it was passed
there. Nothing of
that kind ever h ap-
tW J - the , ot j l^, two tellers - Also, when an agile
hoo , k l ed the money which a customer was
of o h lllj incident happened there as a matter
° T 6 ' Wl '? n J l2lb - of ceiling fell down once
it all dropped right into that teller’s box.
* * * *
Now that war is to recommence between
will™^ a , ny feri l es > perhaps the Marine Board
the s ulate with the people who, possessing
the foM- 1 * ° a *’ kavf j hitherto taken advantage of
side f tv, ■ ran ? e up on the windward
loathsome contemporary and smother
tailed em d u deck thereof with their long-
dresses ° f filtky coa l'dust—spoiling hats and
oassen ’^ Kl s °metimes even temporarily blinding
passengers who happen to be taken unawares.
the rlf 6 official returns showing the cost of
of persons tf n orri mission, there is one section
1 ■ who, apart from titles of office, are


EAT AND DRINK.
TAKE NOTICE I
There are many kinds of everything; but only
one is
THE BEST OF ITS KIND.
BILLY TEA
IS THE BEST TEA.
GRANUMA
IS THE BEST DIGESTIVE FOOD
DRINK AND EAT.
MATRIMONY.
TF vou wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult
1 us Our varied and extensive chentdle enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stations of life. Local
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecy All communications confidential. Information
sent free to bona-fide applications. Write for pamphlet
and rules.
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association.
57 PHILLIPS STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next Hotel Metropole).
One of the pleasantest, coolest, most
central and best-appointed restaurants in Sydney
is the Manhattan Dining Room, situated in the
basement of the great Equitable Building in
George-street, Sydney. It is in the middle of the
busiest portion of Sydney, and is in every respect
a high-class establishment with good cooking, good
attendance, a lavish bill of fare, and luxurious
fittings and furnishings. #
JAMES KIPMAN, Grocer, Wipe ai)d Spirit Merchant,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR.
WHISKIES.
Walker’s Extra Special
~ Ordinary
Robertson’s XXX...
„ X
Usher’s Special Reserve ...
~ Glenlivet O.V.G. ...
Buchanan’s (House of Commons) (white seal)
Dawson’s XXX Special
Brown’s 4-Crown ...
Glenkinchie Special (9 years old) ...
J.K. Special (8 years old) ..
Very Old Highland
Bullock, Lade & Co’s
4/3 per bot.
4/- „
4/3 „
4/- „
3/9
3/6
4,8
3/9
3/9
25/- per gal.
24/-
22/- „
fs
Other Spirits, Beers, etc., will be advertised in next week’s issue.
JAMES KIDMAN,
OXFORD STREET, GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY; BILLITER STREET, LONDON
ranked as “ Mr.,” while another section remains
severely unornamented Thus we have “ Mr.’’
F. E. Rogers and “Mr.” C. G. Wade, whereas
shorthand writers, professional witnesses and
others appear baldly as “ F. W. Curnow,” “ T. D.
El well,” and so forth. The point is only of value
as a hint to the Public Service Board, showing
what a lot of time some official barnacles must
waste in inventing and maintaining such micro-
scopic distinctions.
» * * *
A noteworthy incident in the Public Ser-
vice Board alterations in the N.S.W. Justice
Department is the appointment of a layman,
Mr. G. Miller, late Comptroller-General of N.S.W.
Prisons, to succeed that astute lawyer, Mr. A. C.
Fraser, as Under-Secretary. Mr. G. Miller is the
luckiest official in N.S.W. Civil Service. Why a
man who has had no connection with law in all
his life should be appointed secretary for Justice,
is as big a mystery as why Mr. Miller, after spend-
ing all his official life as a clerk in the Education
Department, was suddenly appointed Comptroller-
General of Prisons. However, possibly the Board,
in kicking the Union Club man upstairs, had in
view the benefit which would accrue to the Prisons
Department in being placed under that intelligent,
energetic and humane disciplinarian, Capt. Neiten-
stein, who has made so great a mark for himself,
and has long been so poorly paid, as chief of the
training-ship Sobraon.
Since, however, the under-secretary is the per-
manent head of the Justice Department, The
Bulletin protests vigorously against Comptroller
Miller, who, as known in his official capacity, is
only less bloodless than Minister Gould, being
thrust into the billet. Miller is the departmental
apologist for the gag, the lash, and the solitary
cell, the man who ordered “ white spirit mixed
with a nauseous drug ” to be served to sick
prisoners instead of brandy, and censured a gaol-
doctor for allowing spirits to strengthen the
stomachs of two prisoners who attended on a
patient in the gaol-hospital suffering from a par-
ticularly loathsome disease.
There is a certain harmony in bringing such a
man into direct departmental contact with Minis-
ter Gould —the harmony of two frogs croaking
under your window; but the man not content
with one frog at a time is extravagant and a
glutton. Comptroller Miller should be removed
from the Justice Department altogether. His re-
ports show that he has no conception of the prin-
ciples of the modern science of crime, and he
appears from those reports to be a man of small
and obstinate intellect, incapable of being taught
his own ignorance.
* * * *
At Balmain (Sydney) Court, the other day,
two young gentlemen employed at the local abat-
toirs were fined £2 each “ for throwing bullocks -
livers at people passing—a practice so common as
to be an intolerable nuisance.” Liver-throwing
is the first stage in the public history of these
young men. Shortly, no doubt, we shall hear 01
them as footballers.
* * * *
All Melb. cable-tram cars and dummies
are now fitted with hinged seats for the conductor
and gripman, so that on stretches of several blocks
both have decent opportunities of resting then
limbs, and thus avoiding congestion of the blood-
vessels in the legs, varicose veins, rheumatics, and
so on. The Bulletin presumes that this heralds
another reduction in wages. The tram co. has
given “ nix for nil ” so far.
The Sydney Chinese paper is in future to
be printed from type, a “ fount ’’—probably the
first used in Australia-havmg bee n iniportecl for
the purpose. It contains between 8000 and JOUU
oharacters, and 30 pairs of ordinary printers cases
are used to hold it.
A SKETCH BY “HOP’S” UNDERSTUDY.
' l Locking, tpeDaßumc*
The well-known solidity of first attempts
at baking dampers is proverbial. Some kangaroo-
shooters lately engaged a cook of the “boiling
water without burning it ” type. His first and
second efforts were simply thrown out, except a
part which was used for bullets. On the second
day he tackled a third damper, and, although the
dough persisted in sticking to his fingers, he
managed at last to get it into the ashes, and,
greatly exhausted, went outside for a rest. After
a while he noticed some birds come down and
pick at the remains of the first damper, and,
though they struggled hard, they could not get
their beaks out again and were easily caught.
The party used the insides of the other dampers
for bird-traps.
* * * *
The Argus has had luck. In the same
issue as that in which it hisses at Sangster for
making those sensational charges re the alleged
unseaworthiness of certain ships, particularly the
Wendouree, it is compelled to report the accident
on the latter vessel—the bursting of a boiler-tube
by which two men were boiled to death. Sang-
ster was pretty severe on the boilers of the Wen-
douree. Is this a strange chance or a terrible vin-
dication ? The Argus hastens with the assurance
that the explosion is no proof of the inefficiency of
the boiler. . Probably not—most likely it burst
with sheer indignation.
¥ * * *
The inevitable double event: Two Melb.
suburban railway station-masters just killed, by
trains, within a week. None killed before.
* * * *
Probably “Australian Natives’ Day” in
Melbourne will not long survive Chief-Sec. Pea-
cock’s order to suppress the sale of art-union
tickets. The A.N.A. annual fete has been run
solely on the gambling racket. A soft-headed
public bought shilling tickets for the ffite mainly
because each bit of paper represented a fraction
of a pen’orth of chance to win £ 1000. The exact
size of the fraction aforesaid can’t be accurately
stated, seeing that the number of art-union tickets
issued is wrapped in mystery. Neither does any-
one appear to know whether the drawing of prizes
provided for the large number of chances that
must have been left on hand unsold.
¥ * * *
A Victorian spinster postmistress is in
trouble over alleged embezzlements, amounting to
several hundred pounds. Cherchez le masheur.
* * * *
A charitable movement is afoot amongst
the Chinese merchants of Sydney to send about
100 aged and decrepit Chows to China.
* * * *
The apartments of an absconder now very
much wanted by the police were decorated with
scores of photographs. But when the detectives
came to ransack the photographic gallery and to
rummage into all the belongings, not one solitary
photo of the Levanter himself, at any age what-
ever, could they find. Yet Levanter was a vain
man—just one who might be expected to have
photos, of himself taken in all sorts of attitudes.
There is one photo, extant of the gentleman —but
that is another story.
* * * *
From the report of Glebe branch of Sydney
City Mission, recently wept over by Gov. Hamp-
den :—
326 persons had been relieved and 1003 prayed with ; 45
had received medical aid, and 896 had received tracts.
The Glebe missioners are thus more than three
times as liberal with “flopping” as with bread ;
and nearly 20 times as generous with tracts as
with physic.
* * * *
At Ballarat (Vic.), a week or two ago, one
Mary Downes was tried for attempted suicide and
acquitted on the ground that she was insane.
Next day she was tried for arson, and was con-
victed on the ground that she wasn’t insane, and
got four years’ “ hard.” And now the Justice De-
partment has taken to gibbering to itself as it
walks, in its efforts to decide what it should do
with Mary Downes.
* * * *
A blush betokens innocence—at a former
period.
x * * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Why should a man in a
crowded railway-carriage always give up his
seat to oblige a lady, who, the chances are,
feels much less tired than he ? Because
he is the slave of a foolish social cus-
tom founded upon bogus reverence
for the weaker sex. The other day
I got into a compartment full
of vulgar holiday-makers, and
had to stand until a cheer-
ful larrikiness said, “ ’Ere,
you take niy seat, mister ;
I’ve been doin’ a lot of
sittin’ all day, I ’ave.” It
was a strain upon my moral
courage, but I took that
seat, I did. The girl seemed
happy to do a bit of stand-
ing, and her bloke, who
remained seated as before,
said, “My colonial! Liz.,
there ain’t any blanky
nonsense about ’im.” The
bloke’s remark was a well-
deserved compliment, I
guess.—Weary.
* *
A Melbourne master -
baker admitted in Haw-
thorn Court, last week,
that he had paid a “second
hand ” 3s. for sixteen
hours’ work, and summarily
sacked him for refusing to
work nineteen hours at a
stretch. Ye gods ! no won-
der the consumers find
fault with their daily bread. A loaf manu-
factured in a baker’s nineteenth consecutive
hour of toil (at 2|d. per hour) is likely to be a
ghastly failure.
* * * *
An evening paper publishes in Sydney—
in this alleged land of gold—a story in which the
hero jumps a stream and makes a long bush
journey up hill and down gully with a wallet con-
taining 10,000 sovereigns (nearly ljcwt.) slung on
his back !
* * * *
The story goes that some people who
lately hired a certain powerful tug-boat to act
temporarily as a ferry steamer have now in hand
quite a number of lawyers’ letters claiming
damages for having shaken women’s teeth out of
their heads.
* * * *
Again the pietistic tea-bibbers in deputa-
tion assembled have asked for the abolition of the
barmaid. Chief Sec. Peacock is going to “ make
inquiriesask a policeman, probably. “There
are numerous occupations for young women apart
from hotels,” say the purists. How very true —
out-door work, especially.
THE WAYS
OF A. MAID.
WITH A MAN.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
HELP Hand lH£ARD Mi i*\ SPfAlR. 1/
D/s E ARNEVf WHISP£F*,& , FIRA AND, iPW /
painty flush That T ll ' lC ' tD y°ur. cnteK. \
, H)£Uto the Faint half-HEART to /'io / K
Pleaded , as ] Pleaded once
yielded as you yielded then (
left you as 1 left You once
‘jHE HAPPIEST MAN of LLVINCv. n\en ” H
Hi ay Sweet !. Whaj Creed’s Your '
N ' — r-v ' * *f
E)oE-S »T no T WARviM -ft\ E AND FAlfeE. i
l^fA Y CRE-ED ? '’THE WORLDS A BalLROoNF BRIGHT
) u
' where Hearts are partner?* F°r a yvaltz.
Vic
LMP.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently,
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted , and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
G.G. : Attack Law before Medicine, because
anyone can practise as a doctor Sinbad : Com-
monplace—right down to the “soul which looked
out from her large, earnest, blue-grey eyes.”
E. (100-Mile, W.A.) : You found a tooth in the tin
of meat. And that’s all your “ Anicdoat.”.Nix
(Sunny Corner): Well, what do you want done to the
Civil Service dog? W.B.G. (Newcastle): You were
mashing the old man’s shoeless young wife, and he
wanted to know why you were “fooling with me heffer.”
Not being an agricultural paper we don’t care for heifers.
Kei Panes : Respectable verse, but “Memories” and
lonely graves and the tombstone business generally is off.
Ran Basterpoole : The lady in “rich, shimmering,
nut-brown hair ” w’ho was kicked in a luxurious boudoir is
hereby declined H.G.B. : Just so Hairpins: Poem
received beginning—
Politics versus Potter and Divinity versus Deakin
A “ Holy Joe ” and “Needy Poll” contrive to get their
beak in.
The rest is gloom and mystery J.B.W.J. (Sydney)
Will use Penleigh : Received, one bad parody on a
song that was never any good Eulomogo (Lane Cove):
Disappointing yarn. Begins with promise of an original
idea and ends as a plain twopenny drunk F.H.O.
(Bourke): The feeblest salting-yarn to hand for a long
time .... Edgar Clarke : Verse pretty good. Don’t care
for subject Isabel E. : “ About Theresa” is ivell
written, but covers too much space for its 5nap......
C.W.P.P. : Can’t say. The profundity of your hypothesis
about the nature of gravitation has broken us all up.
We have no theory left to offer E.D. : Zeal. Good
W.C.M. : Infantile humor, infantile art G. (B. Town):
old as the hills DugaldM'L.: Will print “C.” E.K. :
A considerable number of “ Banjo’s” verses were omitted
from the collection entitled “The Man from Snowy
River” —the “Scapegoat” being one of them. “The
Banjo” is modest enough to say that, in his opinion, the
“ Scapegoat ” was not worth reprinting apart from Hop-
kins’s illustrations W.A.H. : “Which is the right end
to light a cheroot?” Well, much depends upon the size
of a man’s mouth. Most people light the smaller end
6xB: That the wandering man who pays cash gets far
worse served than he of fixed residence who gets credit is
an old story W.P.: Boils down to this—You don’t tell
a woman you love her to be believed, but to show what a
devil of a fellow you are P.J.N. :So far, you are ad-
dicted to the unprintable W.B.M'D. : That cloak-and-
cow-stealing story was used by the clown in Burton’s
circus 25 years ago E.S.D. (Yic.) : Handed to artist
Dulcangi : The climax of “ A Swim” w'ould not do to
print Acorn : Black looks respectable on a parson,
but on the Devil it is quite a different matter.
Aloe : But then Queensland tick-fever is pretty certainly
not due to the tick itself, but to a disease-germ carried
by the tick, just as fluke is not due to water-snails, but to
embryo flukes carried by them C.B.A. : The reason
the Judge awarded “ twelve months and one week’s im-
prisonment ” is that prisoners serving sentences under, or
up to, 12 months are not given any “ mitigation ” of their
ordered periods for “good conduct.” Good conduct
counts for mitigation in the case of any prisoner getting
over 12 months. Thus, the 12-months-and-a-week man
will probably work off, by “ good conduct,” one month,
thus serving only 11 months 1 week. Had he got 12
months bare he would have to serve the full period—
unless he was “ well-connected.” (2) An 18-months’
prisoner gets 3 months ordinary “mitigation”; a 2-
years’ man, 4 months’; a 3-years’ man, 6 months’ ; and so
on, in regulated proportions, until a 20-years’ man gets
5 years’ “mitigation.” Anastasia: Let us give the
Jews a bit of a rest; also the Irish, who desire a holiday.
It’s just about the Scotchmen’s turn now. If you have
anything particularly new and ferocious to say about
Sandy Mac and Co. let us have a look at it Crusoe:
Ode to Queensland fully anticipated—by 100 other bards.
Scotty : Essay on old whisky will appear A.C.
(Cool.) : Many thanks D.D. : B’s. D. will do
A.J.S. : The other fellow’s sentiments may have been
“ immoral,” but they were artistically expressed ; your
sentiments, however commendable, are put in a shape
that is simply hideous. The Bulletin wasn’t established
for the purpose of printing bald piety A.O.L. : Please
do some of the “necessary shortening” yourself. We
have spoilt our alleged intellect and shorn our days by
picking needles out of bundles of hay R.B. : Good
story . .. J.B. (B.B.) : Will print sooner or later
J. O’S. C. : Don’t know, but will find out Alma (G.) :
Now is the best of times. Write Mr. Reginald Black, of
Jones and Black, brokers, Bond-st., Sydney W.M.F. :
Treads too closely on the heels of various well-known
verses S.G. : Jack C Bill : Government bonds—
which will yield you little over 3i per cent. The safest
is the “ best.” But such a lot depends upon your pros-
pects, your inclinations, your temperament, your know-
ledge of the world, your location, your age O.A. :By
all means Medico (Min.) : Very interesting F.C.C. :
No interest A.A. : The gent who goes to the gold-
washed house and meets his female relation in a gold-
washed tableau is really very crude and tiresome
N.V.P. : Considering R. : “ Pan ” doubtful; all your
rhymes are more or less consumptive—hectic, thin, and
delicate W.D. (Moree): Some cleverness; not enough
realistic art to counterbalance unpleasantness J.B.C. :
(Vic.): Tight .place of man pinned under burning tree
isn’t improved by your gilding. Melodramatic gush and
rant are a chemical-factory smell to the soul Jingle:
Sort of square-rood stolen from the other side of Space.
No anchorage here .... Ariadne : May use Roving Ben :
No value J.W.B. : You think, in fact, that Australia
should be buried in Parkes, not Parkes in Australia.
Young man, there is room in Australia for many, many
Parkeses R.S.M. : You fail to make ’em real and inter-
esting S.A.M. (Richmond): Par.-incident only
S.W. : “Erotic” declined; also “Mundane,” “Brown
Men,” “Necessity.” G.D. (Melb.): Little kernel
Brownie : Medical students’ lunch-sandwiches cut from
thelegsof thelatest dissecting-room “ subject”—glorious !
W.L.: Received Lake : Both questions too limited
and technical for us Pipey : “Jim”used; “Hopeless”
dull Bures: Will print Tom C.: Thanks; verse too
slow and heavy—nobody wants to ride on the street-roller.
W.J.H. : Declined Mach: Triolets for print ....
J.L. (Tam.): “Bullfrog” may do A.J.C.: Writing
abominable ; writings may have value some day—pretty
cheap at present Jim B. : Can’t trace it. Why not
make sure of date and page of matter commented on ?
C. A. Tetley : (1) Can’t exactly say, but it was about 1865.
(2) In keeping posted at railway stations the names of
people who have been fined, etc., for defrauding the rail-
ways, the Commissioners have taken a leaf from the
French system of making a man fined for adulteration
post on his door a record of his iniquities. The Commis-
sioners don’t seem to have any express legal permit to do
this, but there is apparently no power to prevent them
A.G.W. : Must respectfully decline to become a mining
tipster F.P. (W.A.) : Would sooner advertise a local
man. Protection —even for parsons E.G. : Slight for
space. And appreciation would be better shown by
silence —complete silence. From silence you might
graduate depreciative applause till you damned preten-
tious incompetence with the braying cacophony that
idiotic audiences tag on to Miss Nagel’s “Ben Bolt.”
W.E.O. : Fed. poem not up Carl V. : “ Inn ” par-value
only J.T. (Wellington): A mere paragraph, killed with
gabbling circumlocution H.A.C.: “ Prospects” wants
interest Ika (W.) : Pointless D.: You can buy
Kipling’s little lot at 2s. 6d. each now Moderna:
Literary women are often a painful lot; but just think
what sarcasms those could shoot at your face and figure
and intelligence!


T be fv\otOal Life loSGraoc*
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia. OF NEW
Con>paoy
YORK.
The Largest, Wealthiest, and Most Progressive Life Insurance Company.
ASSETS (December 31, 1895)
RESERVE FUND
SURPLUS
INCOME for 1895
NEW BUSINESS PAID FOR IN 1895
INSURANCE and ANNUITIES IN FORCE
£45,423,762
39,907,014
5,516,748
9,978,938
... 30,296,933
184,614,877
FLA NS OFI NS UIiAN CE TO S FIT AIL REO UIR EM ENTS.
For information thereof apply to
Tbc MANAGER,
COMPANY'S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE. SIDNEY
Or at the Branch Offices— Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strip •
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Smi?
are highly recommended.
33 ,talf - do TiA% post
Pal terns and Measurement Forms o„ Appli oat ion
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brirtu,, (Ha-
Maoriland males exceed Maoriland females
in number by 40,000. Maoriland should therefore
be a good marry-land for immigrant girls.
A man arrested for wife-desertion at Hay,
when lodged in gaol, said he would sooner be
hanged than return to Hay. “ Hay and Hell and
Booligal. ”
Time deals kindly with the woman who
uses “ Babeskin ” soap. It softly removes the tell-
tale lines of the years, and renews the delicate
bloom of youth. One shilling packages of two
cakes. All chemists.*
There are signs—especially in its ‘ ‘ corres-
pondence” columns (for every newspaper “re-
ceives ” just those sorts of letters which it wishes
to receive) —that Sydney D.T. is “aspecting” its
alleged views so that it may readily and excusably
turn and rend the Reid Govt, when opportunity
and “commercial principles ” dictate such a course.
The rats, in fact, are preparing to leave. Masterly
feat! to be at one and the same time an “ official ”
and an “ independent ” organ.
Messrs. J. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. wish to
notify the Australian public that the dimensions
of their stock and the forethought of their arrange-
ments will enable them to keep the prices in
leather down for at least three more months.
Buyers should take advantage and communicate
with the firm at 162 Clarence-st., Sydney. *
Sydney D.T’s. interesting London corres-
pondent hears from Johannesburg that the
Jameson raid came to grief mainly because the
conspiracy was a whisky and water affair—a John
Jameson affair, in fact. Want of food and too
much grog did the trick. The expedition some-
how lost the run of the food-depots it had elabor-
ately arranged; nevertheless it managed to pick
up some vile Boer grog on the very day the
burghers potted Jameson’s men from behind
rocks.
When General Hutton first came to N.S. W.
he straightway announced that he intended to get
rid of certain locally-appointed military officers
and import Imperial ones to fill their places—
which autocratic announcement was speedily re-
sented by his official superior, Premier Dibbs, who
refused to allow him to dismiss (among others)
Colonels Spalding and Airey. But General
Hutton now has his way; the two officers named
have got notice of retirement—at the instance, it
appears, of “ the Colonial Defence Committee” in
London, to whom Gen. Hutton represented things
on arriving in England, and whose recommenda-
tion, endorsed by the new Commandant, has been
acted on by Premier Reid. That the officering of
the N.S. W. forces should thus be manipulated by
the Imperial authorities is, from an Australian
Democratic point of view, most grotesque.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have
stoutly declined to abolish the preferential rates
of freight allowed to Eskbank Iron Works, even
though a . large deputation of business men
representative of the Sydney Chamber of Com-
merce, pleaded that the importing “iron mer-
chants of Sydney were being commercially cruci-
fied by the concessions granted to Eskbank The
railway commissioners pointed out that an in-
dustry upon which a large number of persons
depended, had been a direct result of the pre-
ferential rates ; also that the big traffic caused
therefrom really paid the railway department.
Which is a significant contribution to the protec-
tionism-m-practice question, delivered by a board
of commercial principles,” men who happen to
be statutorily independent of the present foreign-
trade, cheap jack importing government.
Watt, the British ex-M.P. whom Premier
Kingston accused of having tried to bribe him
with shares in a Northern Territory co., and who
has just been divorced by his wife, cut a rather
poor figure in court “ Mrs. Watt’s notion of her
denWir Say^ ydne - y A T -’ s London correspon-
Mr Plavflrd H 1 that of Mr - Kingston and
Mr. Playford, not to mention the shareholders of
the various companies the ex-member for Glasgow
promoted. Mrs. Watt is tall, stately and
ffivenfie age The Mr 'i Watt , f . ancies himself still
wi i! T he couple quarrelled first over money
pitwhow Je marriage of Mrs - Watt’s aged
parent, who wedded a young girl. In ’BB too a
hbel action led to differences of opinion.’ Mr
on ‘ Th g e a Nortbr y ter .f tin ff lecture in Glasgow
on ihe Northern Territories of South Australia ’
It was capital stuff, and the author felt righteously
M?rD a omW n D a i C - Sed l ‘ liftin S’ thelotfroS
mrs. Dominic Daly s work on the same subiect
He prosecuted the paper which said so for libel'
and turned to his wife for svnimtln; qv v, ’
ever, expressed wondcl tbatTeCfd Sto the
mlnese-box and swear the lecture was his original
work when she remembered seeing him and hk
secretary copying freely from Mrs Daly’s bo^k
tliere ’could g bp Ce h U I lnsinuation Mr. Watt felt
knitedh sw«edl„°%. effeot T
dinner hofnrf il oir.Somebody Something to
S Bi t°n / Sa 4-- m He wl f f° u r riou" STS
aSreed^tEl;^ 611 Wh f «» Watt diV
outlets af Mr - Watt flung a
court were of a oth ? r revelations in the
uiu were ot a much worse character.
BKSZBm
wmm
, ( ,G-OT° HIEJLXj-
?eIUh^ N P f ° l r , Pretty sta “PB- VVe
i i,'f he , S j t r? f . 14 > un used, for Is. fid.
> !,i tr 1 fced Prlce Lis t of Foreign and
“ “ asian Stamps, post free, and
Freci Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.),
L LIZA BETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
[?]
Sydney, .Tune 23, 1896.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Not so much the music as the audience was
relied on to make a success of the first concert of
the fifth season of the S.A.O.S. at Sydney Town
Hall. _ The last people heard of the society was.
that it was falling through with a hollow sound
because of the shyness of the subscription-list and
the stern fact that Sydney hadn’t enough orches-
tra in its soul to run a hurdy-gurdy with.
Therefore, when the society announced a fresh
start people were more greatly concerned to see
how the house filled than whether Hazon’s giftec
band was going to improve on its old form or
not. Considering the size of the Town Hall, the
attendance was realty very heartening, anc
included a girl in pale-pink from head to toe, who
looked like a peach-blossom ; and a stout lady in
sort of steel cuirass, which looked as if she hac
trimmed herself with chain pot-cleaners. The
programme, under Hazon’s electric baton, went
off in great style, the clever orchestralists being
diversified by Miss Milly Wynne, who made her
first appearance with the society and wore white
satin, subsequently brightened with many handed-
up bouquets. Her numbers, by Verdi and Gomez,
proved her to be the possessor of a showy high
soprano voice united to a good platform style, anc
a personality which reminded you of poor Violet
V arley.
Apropos singers Miss Nagel, the unseen
warbler of “Ben Bolt” in “Trilby,” has a rich,
round, somewhat baritoney contralto—the sort of
voice that seems lonely without whiskers, I always
think—but she must get nerves to match it, or
Australia won’t have in her another Crossley to
spring on a waiting world—unless the fashion
comes in of singing behind fire-screens. Miss
Nagel’s nervousness is inexpressibly refreshing in
an age when girls are pushing in the front row
from infancy upwards, but it is likely to stand in
her way all the same. I hear that several attempts
were made during the Sydney season of “Trilby ”
to lure her on to the concert-platform, but with no
avail—the damsel was willing, but her knees were
weak. Nervousness carried to those lengths is
generally as great a drawback to public success as
no voice at all, but I hope Miss Nagel, with her
lion’s voice and mouse’s courage, will get over her
stage panic in time to make a great name for
herself.
I was really sorry to miss the Royal Society’s
reception, last Thursday, for these attractive
functions only occur, as it were, once in every blue
moon, and Thursday’s function was made memor-
able by Professor Threlfall’s Rontgen-ray demon-
stration, which seems to have absolutely fascinated
the numerous laymen—a great crowd of doctors
attended —by whom it was witnessed.
The New Religion in Sydney ominously begins
in smoke. The celibate “ priest ”of St. James’s,
Sydney, where part of Govt. House worship goes
up, gave a big smoke-concert in the church nail
the other evening to the men of his flock, who all
brought their pipes by special invitation. The
object is to bring the wandering males, as it were,
of the flock round the shepherd, who is apparently
getting tired of the ring-fence of petticoats by
which he has found himself enclosed up to date.
Hence the new movement in High Church circles
to smoke the women out of at least one phase of
Kerristian fellowship. The Incumbent of St.
James’s definitely admitted the plague of women
in the churches when, in a speech during the
smoke-concert aforesaid, he told how he “once
knew a vicar whom somebody asked if he knew
much of the fathers (meaning the early fathers).
‘No,’ he replied, ‘but I see a good deal of the
mothers and daughters.’” Which strikes me as
being a very ungrateful remark for any parson to
make—unless he was riled at the fit of his last pair
of woolwork-slippers.
I wonder how women like the struggles of their
pet parsons to be free from their galling yoke?
When a woman finds her tame curate, warranted
to feed from the hand, suddenly barring her out
and spending whole evenings with men and
tobacco, she must feel as if ner pet kitten had
suddenly found voice and sworn at her. But, for
my part, I think the move only fair to the men.
Hitherto churches have been made interesting
solely to women. The show of millinery, for ex-
ample, and the celibate curate who pays visits and
drinks tea, only appeal to the feminine community
—but the new regime of “ a pipe with the parson ”
on certain evenings, and a monthly smoke-concert,
will round up the sceptical male while the novelty
lasts, anyhow. And when that wears off lots of
new “wheezes” for keeping the men up to the
mark will present themselves to a mettlesome
high churchman who knows just how to dish the
devil with lots of sacerdotal sauce to deaden the
flavor. Choir-girls, par exemple, are a compara-
tively unworked field in Sydney, regarded as a
means of bringing young men to church on Sun-
days. The present system is crude and ill-digested
—precious material boxed up anyhow, wearing
unbecoming clothes when it ought to be carefully
stage-managed in angelic but tricky night-gowns-
cwm-surplices.
Everybody’s thoughts seem to be on tobacco
just now. There has lately been a newspaper-war
as to whether smoking should be allowed in Sydney
Botanic Gardens. Certainly, as they stand, our
Gardens, where nobody (but nurse-maids) ever goes,
are social wildernesses. You have to poke about
to discover the whereabouts of your five o’clock
cup of tea, and when you get it you drink it fac-
ing a blank wall, and wander out again feeling
like a wet Sunday afternoon, although the Gardens
themselves are beautiful always. Of course T
know all this has nothing to do with smoking
there—but then I don’t care a row of pins about
the smoke question—l only want to point out
that the Gardens entertain you so sadly that some
novelty ought to be tried there. The women’s
grievance about the Gardens is the absence of a
smartly-managed tea-room with a wide verandah
studded with little tables, whence one could com-
mand a spirited peep of the harbor.
Gov. and Lady Hampden and party visited
Sydney Zoo the other day and were speechless
with rapture at the tout ensemble. But, to my
mind, the Zoo must be a mixed pleasure to any-
body really fond of animals. The goaded elephant
loaded with brats ; the camel in a 6 x 4 enclosure ;
the cassowary stalking up and down a narrow bit
of sand; the gaunt, wild beasts in barred cages
roaring for meat; and, lastly, the strings of
broken-down horses who have slaved to the last
gasp being led in the back way to be slaughtered
to feed the howling mob of captives. I suppose,
though, we must have a Zoo so as to let the State
school-children have ocular demonstration that the
leopard doesn’t change his spots.
Government House appears to have broken out
in a fresh place over its “ at homes ” this season.
The new caper appears to be to hold what were
usually afternoon receptions by gaslight, and to
allow a large suburban majority in off the grass,
in a manner of speaking, for the first time. This
will make Guvmentouse wildly popular, and is
the sort of thing that leads to her Ex. becoming a
“sister” to a number of unknown people. The
garden-reception racket was played out during the
Duff period, when many truly loyal subjects never
saw the pattern of the V.R. carpet; and though it
(I mean the garden-reception) was cheap (the
crowd generally walked to and from it), it was
more or less nasty. Receptions by candlelight
changed all that. There is something far more
serious to the average would-be society female in
paying your respects to vice-royalty in evening
dress backed up by a stiffly-starched husband and
a hansom cab than doing it alone by daylight in
your Sunday frock and making the pilgrimage
“per boot”—though everybody, of course, isn’t
glad of the innovation. The old, now-disrupted
Govt. House clique hurries through the motley
assemblage with its nose in the air, so I hear.
The thing Gov. Hampden feels most profoundly
grateful for in Australia up to date is a shepherd’s
bluey. On a recent shooting-expedition after
bush turkeys, the roads through 20,000 or 30,000
acre paddocks (the size of these amazed H.E.)
got too heavy for expeditious travelling, and,
darkness setting in, the guns were glad to seek
shelter in a shepherd’s hut. “ I will never forget,”
says Gov. H., “the pleasure I experienced when
my kind host found me a blanket to cover myself
with. ” After all, how close we all are at times to
the naked aborigine who yells “Gib it blanket.”
Put a Governor in the middle of a 10,000-acre
paddock without his eider-down quilt, and the
same cry wells up naturally and immediately from
the bottom of his soul.
Dot Boucicault’s farewell to Australia and sever-
ance with the B. & B. co. was a crowded-out
festival at Sydney Criterion last Saturday, adorned
with speeches, flowers (there were lots of flowers
for Mrs. Brough, and one wreath of laurel fell for
D. 8.), a purse of money, and an illuminated ad-
dress. To my idea the audience should have come
in crape, with black-bordered handkerchiefs, and
a leading undertaker should have been hired to
come on and hand the testimonial in a coffin
while the orchestra played the Dead March. For
the departure of the gifted Dot hits Australia
right over the heart. Not only does his going rob
the local stage of the most versatile actor and most
accomplished dramatic tutor it has known, but it
also puts an end to that most useful abbreviation,
“The B. & B. Co.” Nobody would have the
hardihood to write about “ the B. comedy co.” in
the land of the great adjective.
By the way, the Brough dramatic co. will now
(for the first time in its history) visit North
Queensland —hitherto it has never travelled north
of Brisbane. North Queensland —the co. goes as
far as Townsville and Charters Towers—has now
ahead of it the biggest treat it has ever experi-
enced. I advise every woman of brains and
artistic aspirations to save up her money and re-
serve a front seat for the entire season.
That much-adored actor, the bright-eyed Wallace
Brownlow, has left the stage, but not Australia ;
the destination of the accomplished baritone,
whom wild horses couldn’t drag to a tea-party, is
variously stated. His opera clothes, at least, w 1
be hard to fill. That is the worst of engaging a
large, athletic youth for parts usually tilled
small and curly lady-killers. The next man in
always looks as if papa s pants would ne\ er
Johnny, in a manner of speaking.
Quite a flight of fixtures is billed for cold July,
though the Tempe ball occurs on 30th June (next
Tuesday) at Sydney Town Hall and end® t _is
month up with festive honors. On 3rd •July tne
Sheep Show is to be opened at Sydney Agricul-
tural Ground by Gov. Hampden, on which occa-
sion ladies will be admitted free to gaze on the
erratic back-bone of the country and contemplate
mutton-chops in their wild state. The feature ol
the Sheep Show, from a public point of view, is,
of course, the sheep-dog trials. On 15th July
Miss O’Shaughnessy’s complimentary benefit con-
cert takes place in the Town Hall with a good list
of patrons, and on the same evening the Steam-
ship Co.’s officials give their annual ball at Pad-
dington Town Hall. On July 7, Mrs. Harvey,
gives a charity-conversazione and concert at Needs
rooms, and the Freemasons’ ball —the only public
ball now arranged by men —comes off in Sydney
Town Hall on 29th July in aid of the poor of
Sydney.
More fixtures for July: On 3rd a dance will be
held in Stratton’s Hall, Waverley, in aid of the
local poor. On the 14th the Fete Nationale
Francaise comes off at Correy’s gardens, Cabarita,
and a seasoned committee have the affair well in
hand. For the 20th H. Ex. has accepted the invi-
tation of the Institute of Bankers of N.S.W. and
the Australian Economic Association to a conver-
sazione, which will probably be one of the most
brilliant entertainments of the season.
The Sydney Nice People’s Club had a business
meeting (kept very quiet, for reasons) in Tatter-
sail’s Chambers, Pitt-street, on Friday last. To
escape the remarks of a vulgar and critical press
the nicest of the nice had to lift their silken skirts
and march up four flights of stairs to the hall
which is used for religious purposes and has
“Stewards of Truth” nailed up on the door.
Great pains were taken to keep the press out, but
no reporters appeared. The genial Sydney Bur-
dekin, framer of the imperishable phrase defining
the objects of the club, was not present. The
matter of renting a club house in the city was gone
into, and the large and smileful Hon. Rupert
Carington filled most of the chair.
From the composer I have received “Dorcas, a
Stately Dance,” by Percy Kehoe, and dedicated
to Florence Bland Holt, a very faithful, un-
flattered likeness of whom literally adorns the
cover. The “Stately Dance”" is quaintly con-
ceived and aptly named after the Quakeress in
the “Prodigal Daughter,” one of Mrs. Holt’s
prettiest parts. “ The Carbine Polka ” is also to
hand, Eric Johnson perpetrator. Words fail in
the teeth of a composition like this. “ The ’Bus-
horse Gallop” would be a fitter name, judging by
the quality and bump of the thing.
Writes my Melb. correspondent:—
“The discreet Wallington (he still carries his
damaged arm in a sling) is to get =£3ooo from Lord
Brassey as compensation, with which, unless his
friend Lord Hopetoun gets him a billet in Eng-
land, he will probably go to Westralia—that is, if
he does not get back to Melb. Club. It was not so
much that the captain fell out with the aides, as
some people have said, but that he and Lord
Brassey soon came to a difference of opinion about
what a Governor ought to do—His Ex. inclining
to the free and easy, and the private-sec. to the
conventional. And, not unnaturally, the lord
who pays the piper preferred to get a new
musician.
“ The Brassey’s are causing much trouble to in-
tending entertainers by withholding the date of
their first ball. One Mayor is tearing his hair, for
all the invitations for the S. Melb. Mayoral ball
are printed, and now he is roundaboutly told that
the hop at the stucco mansion will be held on the
same night.
“ Austral Salonites fell down and worshipped,
the other day, when Mrs. Brown Potter and
escort Bellew descended upon the Sanctuary of|the
Block, and for a whole afternoon shed their radi-
ance over the tea-tups. Mrs. Potter wore a won-
derful lemon-colored garment under a brown-
plush cloak, which she hugged round her conspira-
tor-wise or flung back in a heap when she remem-
bered the claims of the aforesaid bilious robe to
admiration. Mr. Bellew, whose curls nowadays
are powdered with silver, protested in a gushing
speech that Salonites could not be half so glad to
welcome him as he was to see them. His hearers
hung round and gloated rapturously over their
Idol until nearly 6 p.xn. Then he escaped with
his party and boarded a tram in the gathering
dusk, still shadowed by a faithful few.
“For the sake of Shakespeare’s poor, vexed
ghost, believers in a spirit world rejoice that the
Potter-Bellew “As You Like It” has, for the
time being, ceased from troubling. Women, as a
rule, are pitiful, and perhaps it was partly’ com-
punction for the hovering Bard of Avon that made
her own sex so impatient with Rosalind Potter
So grotesque,’ they all said, ‘and as flat as if
you d rolled her out with a rolling-pin ! ’
“A pretty, wealthy matron, who, a while back
shook off a troublesome husband in the Divorce
Court, intends, ’tis said, to bestow herself her
thousands, and her two children upon a youthful
Melb. barrister The happy man is an ardent
Wesleyan, to the delight of the lady’s clan, who
ascribe most of her former matrimonial troubles to
tion ” Ct that She married out of the denomina-
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
“ The opening of the first session of our 12th
Parliament was a soul-stirring function lasting-
over two days The principal inwardness of the
ceremony was the interesting study of osculatory
method. As members took their seats in the Lower
House, they developed some 70 different styles of
kissing, varying from a perfunctory bob of the Book
against a member’s beard to the sonorous smack
administered by one burly legislator-which smack
augured well for his moral code. Experience in
contraband caresses would probably have taimbr
noise t 0 glVe S ° S ° Ulful a Sal Ute W ' th much £
“Lord Lamington’s gubernatorial uniform was
new and resplendent, but nevertheless improve
of the fact that a man must be brought up to a
uniform to feel on good terms with it. P
“ Lady Lamington for once looked well out of
doors. A mantle of handsome black moire reach-
ing to her feet was trimmed with wide bands of
cream lace, with which the big sleeves and cape
were also garnished. The hat was suggestive of a
red velvet cushion tied in the middle.
“Mr Hoolan’s congratulation to the Premier on
his birthday ‘honors’ fairly brought down the
House. After felicitating him upon being the
only solvent knight in Queensland, he extended to
him his commiserations for being in such uncon-
genial company, and consoled him by hinting that
possibly in the dim future he, Jack Hoolan, might
be found amongst the Order—when, presumably,
the only cloud would be removed from Sir Hugh s
mental horizon.
“ The Governor’s Private Secretary is a tenor
who, it is said, once adorned the operatie stage.
At a fashionable charity concert, the other night,
the very smart set fairly mobbed the hall to catch
the first notes of the much-talked-of vocalist, for
rumor had said that Tapley would have to look to
his laurels. The gifted one gave evidence of a
tuneful and well-managed warble—of its compass
people were given no chance of judging; so far,
however, Tapley may sleep in peace. It must be
a trial to sing in an uncompromising collar, ear-
high.”
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.


Henry Lawson’s Poems.—Post-free from
Bulletin office, ss. sd. in stamps or postal notes
of any Australasian province.
The point on which Messrs. Brandt Bros.,
of 236 Pitt-street, Sydney, specially desire to
challenge creation is that their kerosene-gas is 65
per cent, cheaper than the ordinary article sup-
plied by the local soulless monopoly. This firm
has on exhibition the “Primus” kerosene gas
stoves, ovens, and cooking apparatus, which con-
vert kerosene into gas, burn without fumes or
smell and with no wick, and cook admirably and
cheaply. Also they offer the Hecla Primus forgo
which supplies sufficient heat to melt lead or brase
and to bend iron bars; the Vesuvius painter’s
burning-off lamp; the JEtna brazing lamp ; the
Ultra Primus lamp for heating soldering-irons,
and the well-known Anti-Candle, an illuminant
which recent improvements have brought practi-
cally to perfection.*
m
T H. SQUIKE & CO.,
* Photographic Stock Peal^rS,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
lAPTP OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New Pochet Koddh, price 21s .
SPOOLS OF FILM FOR 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lies.
“ The Colossus of Life Insurance.”— Westminster Gazette.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE
COIMIIPA.ICT'Y'. i
ASSETS - - <£35,965,430.
RESIDENT BOARD FOR AUSTRALASIA :
(With power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.)
THE Hon. Sir JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G. (President Legislative Council, New South Wales), Chairman'
G. C. WESTGAKTH, ESQ. (Messrs. Westgarth & Co., Solicitors, Sydney).
W. EDWARD WARREN, Esq., M.D. (Chief Medical Officer).
GENERAL MANAGER DEPARTMENT OF AUSTRALASIA:
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.I.A.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH OFFICES I
NEW SOUTH WALES:
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA :
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND: 337 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
[uire for particulars of the Accumulation Policy of this Company.
Personal Items.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s demise, Jtme 24th,
1870.
Baxter, J.P., of Lormer Board Enquiry
fame, is a Tasmanian pensioner.
Graham Berry will not again stand for Vic.
Speakership, his pension being assured.
Major-General Ffrench, a distinguished
officer. Rather : he spells his name with two f’s.
The eighth thousand of “ Banjo’s ” “ Man
from Snowy River ” (price, 55.) is now in the
market !
Gov. Brassey has two doubles in Victoria.
One a Govt, employe, and the other Prof. M'Coy,
of Melb. University.
Lord Lamington, the new Q. Governor, is
so sweet and complimentary that at Rockhampton
they call him “ Butter Scotch.”
A well-known Anglican clergyman, who
has buried four wives, is now about to take unto
his bosom a fifth —a lady who was his first love.
James Casey, who is alleged to have played
the triangle at the funeral of Napoleon at St.
Helena in 1821, lately died in Melb. Immigrants’
Home.
Mr. F. S. Isaacs, the newly-appointed
Sydney Stipendiary, is son of the old-time barris-
ter, R. M. Isaacs, Solicitor-General in the Martin
Ministry 18GG-’69.
Alleged that Premier Reid, when in Ade-
laide lately, went to sleep while being shaved by a
local barber. Good: The Bulletin wonders no
one ever thought of this way before.
Hori Grey will probably spend the
last of his days in England. His niece, Mrs.
Seymour George, for years his constant com-
panion, is now returning to Maoriland.
W. J. Clarke, son of Marcus (and not to
be confounded with the baronet of the same name
and initials) was to make his debut as a reciter at
Melb. Masonic Hall, on 21th—“ Australian Poets’
Night.”
From N.Z. Herald, 13th June :
virrANTED, situation by Young, Fair, and Beautiful
’ ’ Widow, who understands housekeeping ; bar,
waitress, town or country. McLeod, 24 Queen-street.
Telephone 884.
The able Miss Spence, of lecturing fame,
who smilingly owns to being 71 years old, said to
a Melb. audience recently—“l’ve been waiting
for the right man to eome along all these years,
but he hasn’t come yet.”
At Cardinal Moran’s last St. Mary’s Build-
ing Fund public meeting, the K.C.M.G.’s present
were given precedence over the K.S.G.’s. Victoria
and Leo appear to play the same precedence see-
saw as the local Cardinal and Primate.
Who says lovely woman isn’t taking up
medicine in dead earnest? Miss Freda Gamble,
M. one of the resident surgeons of Melb.
Hospital, last week figured at an inquest as having
made a, post-mortem on a Chinaman ! Next !
Old Col. Wells, who commanded the
N. infantry in the Soudan, has one joke. To
prove that he was mentioned in the despatches he
produces a cable clipped from a twelve-year-old
S.M. Herald : The Contingent has arrived at
Tamai. Wells dry.”
Judge Casey (Vic.;, in nonsuiting with
costs a libel-action plaintiff, has ruled that to call
a man (in letter addressed to a third person)
“ cowardly ” and “ a cur not fit to associate with
other men,” was not “that excess of comment
which would constitute malice.”
At a recent Adelaide banquet, Premier
Kingston was making notes for a speech. There
were one or two particularly godly people there,
and a friend whispered in the Premier’s ear Ihe
notes went rapidly into his pocket. He had been
writing on the back of a totalisator ticket.
The frigid piety of the S.A. vice-regal
party is appalling to ordinary sinners. Noel
Buxton, the just-arrived, is a rabid cold-tea man,
despite the beer foundation of-the family fortunes,
and the new aide has the humorless demeanor of
a Scotch policeman. But Gov. Buxton, despite
all drawbacks, is personally popular.
Masonic Grand-Master Brassey has just
been initiated into the mysteries of Oddfellowship.
This is what the Age calls “carrying out his pro-
mise to identify himself as far as possible with
Victorian life.” Fiddle! The. Governor merely
identifies himself with secret societies—the darkest
and most unwholesome corners of V ictorian life.
Broadhurst, the old-time Sydney Q.C.
and Shakespearean scholar, while walking to the
Supreme Court in full fig, tore his gown on a beer-
barrel, and immediately remarked to Lackey, who
was with him: “See what a rent the envious
cask has made.” When a piece of ceiling-plaster
fell in the Court, the Q.C. was ready with Fiat
justiiia ruat ccetum.”
It seems that the present postal address of
G W. Taylor, onetime Melb. boomster, is the
Colonial Institute, London. That’s where he may
be applied to for fulfilment of his famous p om se
to feed the blessed Wesleyan (or was it l.aptLst .)
Church with AlO,OOO a year for hve consecutive
years. Taylor was a wag then, and he lias been
playing the wav ever since.
Premier Reid’s taunt that Protectionist
member O’Sullivan “ wears imported clothes re-
calls the fact that the on’v member of N.S.W.
Parliament who made a rein ion of his Protec
tionist views and we re Australian manufactures
from hat to socks was Allen, s.imor— father of t
ex-members, the Freetrade poet, Alfred, and t
Protectionist soap-maker, W. J.
The late Edward Butler, Q.C., of N.S.W.
once arose to cross-examine a long, gaun
whose story had completely and unexpectedly
knocked the bottom out of (Butler
“You said your name was —. O Lnen
O’Brien.” “And may I enquire how'you hve
Mr. O’Brien ? ” “I live, sir,” rephed Michael
loftily “by my own honesty. Indade, sa
Butler, “ then that fully accounts for your e -
dated appearance. You may lave the box, Mr.
Michael O’Brien.”
Louis Beeke will shine in London as a
smoking-room raconteur, telling grimly-funny
stories with his inimitable stutter. To socially
succeed in London, if you are not a local duke or
something of the kind, you must be and look like
an exotic. Becke’s many Australasian friends are
wondering how the ex-pirate, who really looks
like a pirate, will look in a long hat.
A good point about Premier Turner is that,
though he works late himself, he won’t let his
subordinates work late. He stews over figures
night after night in his office at the Treasury, but
he sends his orderly home at 5 p.m. regularly.
“Mr. Turner,” says an old civil servant, “ is the
most considerate Premier to his subordinates that
we have ever had within my memory. ”
“ Godfearin’ ” Garrard, when returning
thanks for his return at last N.S.W. general elec-
tion said something to the effect that he had never
doubted the result, as he felt he was in the hands
of a Higher Power. Whereupon his opponent
declared that had he known that the Almighty
was supporting Garrard, he would never have
stood against their united omnipotence.
The Tasmanian “travelling correspondent”
of a mainland weekly used to excuse late despatch
of “copy” by throwing the blame on the “bad
roads.” Having missed two consecutive weeks,
and feeling unequal to the strain of the position,
he was about to resign the post when a curt edi-
torial note arrived : “No copy this week ; are the
roads bad again ? ” He accordingly wired his re-
signation : “No roads at all— am making tracks.”
Rudyard Kipling has had his brother-in-
law bound over, on account of some empty threats.
He stated, when in the box, that he had never
been in a row in his life. Kipling, the depictor of
a hundred battles-royal and street rows, never had
personal experience ! It serves to show how far
psychologically an author may be from his crea-
tions. What, for instance, would the glorious
Mulvaney have done had a marriage-relation
threatened to lick him ?
The fount and origin of Yarney Parkes’s
truceless and widely-advertised feud with N.S.W.
Public Works Committee are found in the pro-
posal made by him, when chairman, that ,£5O
should be devoted to the purchase of a number of
books which he considered necessary for the edu-
cation of the members of the Committee. Varney
considered his proposal an essential to intelligent
work, but the committee jumped on it as an ebony
insult.
When Phil. May was leaving Sydney, a
number of artistic and other friends gave him a
dinner. In the third stage of the somewhat
hilarious proceedings the chairman ladled out
from a monster bowl to each guest a full-sized
tumbler of what the Gaul ho ran the show,
HIS AWFUL EXPRESSION.
ADMIRING FEMALE: “Mr. Topnote sings with wonderful expression, don't
you think?"
SOULLESS MAN : “By Jove! yes ; I was just looking at it.”
called Ponche.” This punch consisted of well-
sugared raw brandy with lemon, &c., but no
water —that had been forgotten. Only about three
of the guests appeared in public for days after-
wards.
Melb. demise : Allan M‘Vean, for 40 years
Brunswick Presbyterian pastor. Such men pre-
serve respect to the parsonhood by their humility,
abstinence from specs, in the earthly mansions,
and good work amid the poor. Mac. was of the
here stands-a-post, good old Dr. Cairns order, and
was almost the last tusker in the wagging jaw of
the era of Hethermgton and Co. All the new-
fangled higher criticism, introduced by Menzies
and wrought up by Rentoul, he dismissed with
one semaphore wave of his arm.
WHAT, INDEED.
YOUNG COCKATOO : “ Whats Bill been doing,
father?"
Panton, P.M., of Melb., told a medical wit-
ness that next time he came to court he should come
sober. iNiS.W. Chief Justice IVlartin asked a
witness once if he was sober. “As sober as you
are, sir,” was the reply. “ Then you are sober,
said the chief. A well-known Sydney man step-
ping into the Sydney Supreme Court witness-box.
once stumbled. “ How many drinks have you
had this morning?” enquired Justice Faucatt.
“ Only one, upon my honor,” said the witness,
placing his hand over his heart and making a pro-
found bow. “ H’m,” said Faucett ; “how long
was it ? ”
lie black-
mail upon pub-
lic men. A
great Austra-
lian lawyer,
a f terwards
Chief Justice,
when young,
made a secret
appointment
with a married
woman at her
house and was
there surprised
by her husband
and others. All
through his life,
Sir was a
man whose in-
tellect went
straight to the
core of every
question before
him. “Trapped,
by ! ” he
instantly ex-
claimed—“ how
much ? ” It cost
him a thousand.
The wife of
a certain Aus.
Supreme Court
Judge usually
occupies a seat
in his private
room at court,
and freely goes
through affida-
vits and other
mat ters pre-
sented to his
Honor. The
wonder in the
profession i s
that she does
not take a seat
on the bench
beside the
Judge. She has
a precedent.
The wife of the
late Judge
Francis (N. S.
Wales minor
Judge) always
went on circuit
with her hus-
band, and occu-
pied a seat on
the bench dur-
ing court busi-
ness.
Love, who lately killed his drunken wife
at Sydney, won’t be hanged. The jury expressly
found that he was mentally distracted at the time
of the deed, that he had long borne his domestic
troubles patiently, and that his wife’s dissolute-
ness ultimately unhinged his mind. The recom-
mendation to mercy was absolute, and the Reid
Government has, so far, been sensible enough
never to disregard a recommendation to mercy.
Besides, the jury’s suggestion will, no doubt, be
strongly urged by Judge Rogers, as humane a man
as ever wore a wig.
Tom Walker, the versatile everythingarian,
left Sydney the other day to conduct a teetotal
crusade in Maoriland, just about the time that
the lighthouse-keeper of The Brothers lighthouse
in Cook Strait saw sea-serpents.
A Coon correspondent to The Bulletin :
Sam Little, a well-known prospector, left Rocky Dig-
gings, East Coast (N.Q.) in March intending to walk to
Coen (about 40 miles distant). Six weeks afterwards hi«
remains were found by a search party 60 miles N.E. 01
Coen. Little had kept a diary on the back of a pocket-
mirror. The diary showed that he was hopelessly bushed
five days after leaving Rocky. He then built a small
gunyah which he thatched with gra. s. According to the
diary he existed for nearly three w eeks after this living on
raw mussels, having no matches to light a fire. He then
wrote his will on the bottom of an empty butter-tin. It
concluded, “God is my witness, brother, S. Little.
Round the sides of the tin were written his instructions
to the finders of his remains re the disposal of his pro-
perty and personal effects. Both will and instructions
were written briefly and concisely, and there was not a
word in either relating to the misery poor Sam must have
endured.
Spagnoletti: Zox scores, by proposing
that a Melb. artist, presumably Longstaff, shall
paint Queen Victoria, with a sitting, at Victorian
State expense. The Jews furnish the tip-top
loyalty, as well as the most extreme anarchism.
Well do I remember the time when the late A. T.
Clark, M.L.A., was alleged to have libelled H.M.
in his Williamstovvn paper. Zox called attention
to it in Parliament. The Ministry tried to bilk
him of a speech, by urging that other important
business demanded attention. “What ! ” shouted
Thoxth, “ Doth the honorable gentleman mean to
tell me that any bithnith can be tho important ath
the question of an inthult to Her Grathiouth
Majesty! ” Kerferd and colleagues could only
inly groan, while Zox orated a column of the
newspapers, well knowing that every word was
first-class copy.
N.S.W. Sheriff Cowper (son of a late
N.S.W.“Premier), who has been retrenched, was
the only occupant of that office who “ dined ” the
Judges in his banqueting hall at Darlinghurst
Court-house —in feeble imitation of a similar func-
tion performed by the High Sheriffs in Great
Britain. The function provoked little enthusiasm,
the space between the offices of host and guests
being rather too well marked. The High Sheriff
in Great Britain holds an honorary office of high
degree, whereas Australian Sheriffs are little more
than apotheosised bailiffs and boss executioners.
Australian Sheriffs’ dinners roundaboutly recall
the story of Beau Brummel when he had been
invited, with a number of friends, to a grand
dinner given by a wealthy nobody-in-partieular.
“ Oh, yes,” said Brummel, “ everything passed off
well—only the damned fellow would insist on
sitting down with us ! ”
Vic. Minister for Education Peacock—-the
Man with the Iron Laugh—not along ago visited
a Melb. suburban school. After some of the
classes had been put through their facings—to the
accompaniment of laughter which made the timid
little ones shake in their shoes—the youngsters
were lined up and Peacock proceeded to address
them. “ Now, children, do you know who I am?”
he commenced. A pause. “Don't you know who
I am?” said Peacock, surprised. A little girl’s
hand went up : “ Please, sir, the new inspector ! ”
Peacock laughed ‘ ‘ Hrrecrrechaw-haw-haw ! ”
while the blackboards rattled and a map fell off
the wall. When he stopped another hand went
up : “ Please, sir, you’re the man with a vacant
mind ! ” The head-master hastened to explair
that the lesson for the day had been Goldsmith’s
“Deserted Village,” where the couplet;occurs :
The watch-dog’s voice that bay’d the whispering wind,
And the loud laugh that spoke the vacant mind.
Peacock accepted the explanation glumly, and
didn’t laugh once during the rest of his visit.
And now it is sai(f that the “ Deserted Village’ is
to be struck out of the Vic. school-books.
During the argument on the. - appeal of
Kops, when the right of a Judge to adversely com-
ment to the jury on the prisoner’s refusal to give
evidence on his own behalf was dispusspd by the
Full N.S.W. Bench, Salomons, Q. 0., had in sup-
port of thfe appeal fairly deluged with! law the
court of seven Judges, amongst them Justice Win-
deyer, when the latter interrupted him : ‘“ What!
you mean to tell me ! —I, a man of sound common
sense sitting on a bench ! Twelve
men before me! Vile and abominable charge)
made ’gainst man ! By saying few words can clea>
his character ! Doesn’t say those few words —meal
to tell me I’m not to comment upon his silence t-
the jury?” “With great respect, y’r Honor,
submit that the Legislature never intended tha
y’r Honor should comment upon it,” insinuate)
the Q.C. “ Wooh ! ” thundered Windeyer ; “ it’s
absurd—a child would see the absurdity of it.’
“ Precisely, y’r Honor ! If y’r Honor pleases !
Y’r Honor sees it as a child sees it !’” retorted
the Q.C.
Tom shot a parson “ wanst,” and then
He “ took the pledge,” like lesser men ;
And showed the common boozer how
To thrive upon teetotal vow,
As lecturing and posing sample
Of rescued “ horrible example.”
To Maoriland he turns his feet
But leaves some sinners on his beat,
With snakes on land, and snakes on sea,
To nurse the rnem’ry of d.t.


i/jijeU
the many matters urged T>y a
temperance deputation to-day
-“abolition of barmaids.”
1 71 \
i<, I \-n
3) id o''
,Y V ' *
U/777J7T^7ic7
__23 € n ~z^~ij<r
/c Y /7 /a s Y YY€ Yo no'e sY ,
OUR DOCTOR.
-Melb Httnld.
Subscriber My mother Is 66 years of
age, and for the last two years she has
suffered with a constant ringing of
bells in the head. It she presses her
head she con set them ringing
She
should Take twenty grains of
potassium, in water, three times a
day. and**it will relieve the most dis-
tressing symptoms.
\ •***■■ * a
Vf-acf/c e mates
l Wfo A*r *
\ 7- e f (/Si cl • "
' The Treasurer anticipates that his es-
timate of the amount that would be
realised from the Income Tax in respect w
of the calendar year 1595, and for ar-
rears from the 'previous year, will be j
realised, but, so far as this flnancialU
year, which closes on 30th June, is con-m
t'eerned, the actual payments will beVM
’ ,I*lo,ooo behind. \
A new use for the Roentgen rays has
been found in. the detection of false
gems. True diamonds are transparent;
sham ones are not, f/
. JJre sxao<jen 'Yo^/<>-**- 7/7/71
S? 7 3/a t>/( <se s/?af~ of
e7/ Ot 7-71 0 I'l /s
S/rtS/z 777 e 0/1 y/“*xtt.
' THE TICK PEST.
ACTION in victoria.
As there is ft danger of the dreaded “ tick ” pest,
which is causing such trouble, in Queensland,
being brought to this colony in dry hides.
■^/cw
SPEIGHT V. “AGE.”"
NO -FURTHER ACTION.
. - Mr Speight says that he has
finally resolved not to pursue the matter ,
tiny further.
A7 Y /A/5 O\/ \y. / 0/7 A? £7?
v. J
. I think that /i ///- < // -) /
1 under the circumstances the most mercl- * J//r » ■ - U.t>P/7 To
ful course will be to give him a long sen- | o/-f ?2A£j>
MELBOURNIANA.


“HENCE HORRIBLE SHADOW!”
JUSTICE-MINISTER GOULD, the God-fearing "You see, your Houor, to make every ling nice and comfortable for you on your return, we have removed every trace
of the Mount Rennie business. We have released the prisoners!"
HIS HONOR : “Oh, you have, eh? Then what is it casts this awful shadow?"


|Y| ELACH R I N O
—, Cigarettes.
M. MELACHRINO & CO.,
CAIRO,
Largest Manufacturers of the
Best Egyptian Cigarettes.
Supplied to over 200 London Clubs and
Regimental Messes.
Hand Made. Absolutely Pure.
'IV, haA from all Leading Tobacconists.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
ilpll"
«>■'
IMiii
n
Mniki
m
''Sr
inn!*;
Him
V*K«Rj£!7t
A^l,
ip
uii
Mill
nil'
iiilllllliNh
4
»•:<*:**
V
r.n
iiimhi
lUillliii'
iilltf.il
•u..#
H,.iHii
pii
ml!!
lull!'
«i|iiiiillli
inti
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
guarantied splendid condition.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
W BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY
Two Itives Saved.
Mas. S. G. Cox, Pepper Grove, Bacchus Marsh,
Victoria, was told by her doctor that she could
not live. The same dismal verdict wab given to
Mr. B. L. Cooke, Lyttleton, N.Z., but they both
escaped ; were saved by the same means, and it
will save you—if you take it in time. Mrs. Cox
says : “ I was taken suddenly ill, and called in our
doctor, who attended me without doing me the
least good. He then informed me that I was suf-
fering from chronic disease of the kidneys, and
that, having vainly tried everything, he considered
that it would be useless to continue his attendance.
At that time I was completely wasted away, and
in such a helpless state that I could not leave my
bed. I then, through the advice of friends, com-
menced taking Warner’s Safe Cure. The effects
which followed were marvellous. I can now look
back and say that if it had not been for Warner’s
Safe Cure, I should have been in my grave. To
those suffering from kidney disease I earnestly
advise a trial of this medicine before anything
else.”
Mr. Cooke says: “For months my life was
made a constant misery with sufferings from
Bright’s Disease, causing pains in my back, pain
m my sides, and terrible headaches, while my
water was full of red sand. The disease finally
affected my eyesight, and for three long weeks I
was totally blind. Reduced in flesh, weak, and
altogether disheartened, after the doctors failed to
help me, I finally heard of Warner’s Safe Cure for
kidney disease, and tried it; indeed, after using
seven bottles, with the Safe Pills, as required, I
was quite restored. ”*
WATEROUS—
SAWMILLING- MACHINERY.
UP-TO-DATE SAWMILLS (Gang & Circular).
Wood-working Machinery.
ENGINES (Portable and Stationary).
LUBRICATING OILS, ETC.
JfTILLIAM FLEMINV,
Australian Agent,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
And Satan finds some mischief still for
idle lands to do.
The Crown Flaw Department is the latest
name for it in Melbourne.
Deakin, fooling in his £6O Windsor uni-
form, was a reminder of how he allowed Premier
Turner to snap the opportunity.
Actually, Kanakaland has stipulated in a
mail contract that the contractor, the British-India
Co., shall man its steamers with white crews !
The £5OO reduction made by N.S.W-
Assembly in the Parkes Family grant was a
miserable tinkering at the fringe of a miserable
make-believe.
The Chinese Government has but one
official representative in Australasia a store-
keeper at Cooktown (Q.), who proudly signs him-
self “ Chinese Consul.”
Sydney Truth describes the action of R.
Jones, M.P. (N.S.W.), re the Mudgee <.aol bricks,
as “ moving an adjournment to discuss the bad
quality of the bricks which shelter his constituents.”
A Victorian “ railway committee ” recom-
mends that a tax “per acre” shall be levied on
“ all land allowed to lie idle and which might
otherwise furnish freight ”to any railway-line. It
is coming !
Tasmanian Treasurer Dobson remarks that
“ Protection is like feeding a dog on his own tail.”
But any sane dog would rather have his tail
scientifically amputated and cooked for his own
use than hacked off for the benefit of the other
dog—which is Freetrade.
There has been yet another scene in Melb.
district court, Attorney Gaunson having again
objected to teetotal faddist Lormer, J.P., sitting
on a licensing-case. Mr. Lormer has no more
right to sit in judgment on publicans than the
historical wolf had to sit on the lamb.
One result of the appointment of- Haw-
thorne, M.P., as N.S.W. Government Whip,
meaning an extra <£3oo a year, is the conversion
of some Reidites to a belief that it pays to be sus-
pected of semi-independence and an inclination
occasionally to vote “ agen the Government.”
The N.S.W. Solidarity Labor-party seems
very likely indeed to stick to Reid, not because it
directly fears him, for he has had his dissolution ;
but because (for one reason) if it threw out the
present Ministry Lyne would come along with a
dissolution in his pocket and cause no end of
trouble.
Justice Windeyer’s pretensions to a seat
on the Privy Council are laughed to scorn by the
rest of the Australias. The odds are 10,000 to 1
against his getting an appointment from United
Australia, for, outside his own province, he is
chiefly, if not solely, known as the man who tried
the Mount Rennie and Dean cases.
Last week’s N.S.W. political crisis. “ Let
us play at troopers tracking bushrangers,” says
Opposition-leader Lyne. “Phoo! this is only
political petty larceny. You can’t prove that we
blacked our faces or wore crape. Besides, you
helped us to let the big-brewery alleged bush-
rangers go,” retorts Premier Reid.
Ex-Treasurer Ward (M.L.) was lately ban-
queted by a few friends at Stratford, Taranaki,
and being pressed for a song he gave that ancient
melody, “There’s Bound to be a Row.” That
was the first forecast of his approaching downfall.
A few weeks later Judge Williams started over-
hauling the affairs of Ward’s dreadful Farmers’
Association, and, when it turned out that the
Treasurer could only pay about Is. in the <£l, the
row arrived.
The new S.A. Assembly should be the
most garrulous on record. The silent men of the
last Assembly—Kelly, Packham, Johnson, H. E.
Downer, Randell, and others —were all rejected at
the election, and all the old wind-bags were re-
turned by large majorities ; and as the most re-
liable wind-bag of all, Copley, the converted
Democrat, is now leader of the Opposition, which
consists mostly of Tory wind-bags, S.A. Parlia-
ment has a lively time ahead.
The curse of the late Dibbs Govt.’s piebald
tariff has come home to roost. N.S.W, Labor
members are now throwing at Opposition leader
Lyne the well-merited accusation that the 'Dibbs
Ministry, of which Lyne was first lieutenant,
associated, itself with Freetrader Salomons on i
deliberate agreement that its fiscal program •
should only amount to a revenue tariff, and not
Protectionist one.
If Australia must needs have a Judge on
the British Privy Council, the man who has a
clear right to the billet is Way (and his dog) of
South Australia—not Windeyer, who is impu-
dently trying to jump the claim. Way is the
senior Chief Justice of Australia. He is one of
the ablest lawyers on the Australian bench, and
has never mixed himself up with politics, or given
testimonials to dubious spooks, or served as an
advt. for anybody’s ghost. He has no Mount
Rennie on his judicial record, and he hasn’t gone
’Ome in search of the job, which is another point
in his favor. If there must be an Australian
Judge on the blessed Privy Council, Way and his
dog have distinctly the best claim to the honor—
against Windeyer and his spook.
It is alleged that it was Premier Reid who
suggested to the British Government—without
consulting the Ministries of the other six pro-
vinces—the appointment of Mr. Windeyeras Aus-
tralian Judge on the Privy Council. This off-
hand assumption of superiority will probably rile
the other Premiers and make Mr. Windeyer’s pro-
spects rather worse even than they otherwise
would be. If the' news reached Kingston when
the Portuguese side of his character was upper-
most he ought to kick, at all events.
Judge Murray’s exercise of the discretion
allowed him by current law—which only for the
direct interference of the Governor would have
made a Star Chamber performance of the Royal
Commission on Public Works ; Judge Backhouse’s
exercise of discretion in the solicitor Rofe affair ;
and several other similarly-questionable judicial
“discretions” within the past year or so, should
make the N.S.W. public pause, and pause thought-
fully, when Salomons asks that justice shall be
expedited by extending the discretionary powers
of judges.
When Parkes allowed Garrett to bring in
the Payment of Members Bill he was reproached
by Dibbs as an unprincipled Premier for allowing
a Minister to father a Bill in the teeth of the
Premier’s convictions. Parkes retaliated in similar
savage phrases when Dibbs, the liquor Premier,
allowed Kidd, the water-Minister, to bring in an
anti-whisky Bill ; and now Reid, also a liquor-Pre'-
mier, who jeered both Parkes and Dibbs for thus
dishonoring their Premiership, allows Minister
Joe Cook to bring in a Bill to flood the Legislature
with water.
According to the Sydney morning papers
it is probable the Reid Govt, will, when the
financial statement is made, announce its intention
of making some compromise over the sugar-duty.
If it does it deserves to be bundled neck and crop
out of office. It was returned by a Freetrade
majority to establish the glorious, blessings of
Freetrade in N.S.W. It promised to do so,
and if it doesn’t keep its promise then it is
an Ananias. Already there has been a great deal
too much compromise in the matter, and the
blessings of Freetrade have been postponed too
long.
Patriot Farnell, M.L.A., retired the other-
day from the poorly-salaried position of N.S.W.
Govt, whip because he was incapacitated through
ill-health, and was promptly appointed to a highly-
paid job (it pans out about ,£7OO a year) as mem-
ber of the Public Works Committee. Presumably
Mr. Farnell will attend in an insensible condition
on an air mattress and his fees will be put in his
pocket for him by a kindly colleague. But,
solemnly speaking, nowadays almost everybody
appointed to the Committee smells strongly of
iodoform, and clumps with a crutch, Or respires
God’s glorious oxygen through carbolicised cotton
wool.
“THE SAME BUT DIFFERENT
HE: “ When we were married I thought we were to be ‘two souls with but a
single thought.’”
SHE: “ Well, aren't we? Don't we both wish we were single again!”
Judge Docker is of opinion that, under the
N.S.W. criminal law, a magistrate can’t legally
sentence a woman to hard labor. It can, he
thinks, only be done by a Judge. This is a matter
which wants to be cleared up ; a woman has just
as much right, in these days of equality, to hard
abor as a man.
Considering that Maoriland has a big or-
pins this year it should be a good 7
those borrowed sinking-funds Treasurer
much row about in 95. -But cioes ai y
ever repay anything ?
N.S.W. Protectionists are now loaded wit»i
four big-bodied robust knights— Lackey, ’
Dibbs and ex-Mayor Manning, whereas the J roe
traders have only to carry poorhttJeHenwwkan
the shattered Jennings-neither of whomever
clearly knew where Freetrade ended
tion began.
ROBERT STOUT , M.L’s Titled Democrat ,
now running with the National
Photo, by Wrigglesworth & Binns.
Last, year, the “God-fearing N.S.W-.
Ministry: “We will reform the Leg. Oouncil or
die in the attempt.” This year the ditto ditto,
excusing themselves to deputations seriatim :
“ We see the justice of your contentions and re-
cognise the burden of your grievances. Had we
only one Chamber to deal with, we could make
short work of these evils ; but, as things are we
must be content to submit only so much of reform
as the Upper House will permit.’ Yet it goes
down ” with the fool deputations every time.
The Australian
public is invited to
notice the growing
insolence of Ministe-
rial replies, given by-
lawyers, to questions
asked in Parliament
as to official - legal
and judicial malprac-
tices.
Chamberlain says
the future of the Em-
pire depends upon
the decision of the
colonies to enter into
closer unity with the
mother-country. As-
quith, M.P., on the
other hand, contends
that “ the informal
connection of the co-
lonies with Great
Britain is the best
safeguard for the per-
manent unity of the
Empire.” The situ-
ation is this : Eng-
land isn’t Australia’s
mother, but only its
mother-in-law. What
happens when a man
enters into closer re-
lations with his mo-
ther-in-law ?
‘ ‘ Take my word
for it,” said the un-
speakable Thomas
Bent the other day;
“ I won’t be kept
aut of Parliament.”
Which indirectly
suggests that there
were some good
points about the
Greek law of ostra-
cism, under which a
man could be run out
of the country by a
popular vote, and or-
dered not to come
back, on the general
ground that he was-
n’t a nice person to
have about the pre-
mises. A popular
vote on the question
of running Tom Bent
over theborder would
be an interesting re-
ferendum just now.
To again allude to a well-worn theme—the
iniquities of the Ass in Bananaland. Brisbane
was actually appointed a polling-place for Carpen-
taria-2000 miles away, while Croydon, just on
the borders of that electorate and with more votes
than Brisbane for Carpentaria, could on no account
be gazetted. How long, 0 Lord !
Premier Kingston’s proposal re the bien-
•,retirement of half the Assembly, is a curious
example “f the appearance of atavistic spots on
the democratic leopard. It is the very continuity of
existence sought for in S. A. that helps to make Vic.
Leg Council one of the strongest plutocratic cham-
ber" in the world, and practically irremovable save
bv quasi-revolution iry methods. Supposing a
S A Parliament hateful to the country it would
require four years of extreme political tension to
get rid of it,'to say nothing of the danger of de-
fections in the half-house returned in the first two
years.
Deakin’s—shall we say treasonous —private
suggestion to Sargood that if objectionable to the
Upper House, part of the factories Bill might be
limited to three years, has evidently been greedily
snapped up in other quarters. Replying to the
deputation re the long hours of shop-assistants,
Premier Reid hinted that perhaps the Government
would be able to introduce the desired legislation
in the forthcoming Factories and Workshops Bill,
if only as an experiment, giving the Act, say,
three years to run. From the general tone of the
Preimer’s remarks the bell-wether of Vic, Council
is evidently to lead N.S.W. factories legislation.
Recently the N.S.W. Treasury circularised
a lot of the big Sydney firms asking if their cus-
tomers had received the full benefit of the aboli-
tion of duties—in other words, if, when 10 per
cent, duty was taken off, goods were 10 per cent,
cheaper ; and if not, why not? The answer sent
by at least two big firms was that they had given
their customers the entire benefit of the tariff re-
ductions, but that retail prices in their lines were
no lower, because whenever the duties came off
the English manufacturers raised their prices
sufficiently to cover the difference. So the Trea-
sury loses" a large amount of revenue, and neither
the local consumer nor the local dealer gains by it.
The profit goes to the English producer.
A great effort is going to be made at a
public overhaul of some branches of the Vic. tele-
graphs, and if it starts m, real earnest it may
develope into an inquiry into the whole postal
and telegraphic department. Then there will
probably be trouble. B.M.G. Duffy is the happy
incapable of the Vic. Ministry, and his 'inertness
has prevented the P.O. shar.ug, to any great
extent, in the general reorganisation. He got
into this Ministry, and into three previous ones,
because it is a sort of tradition in Melbourne that
there must be one more or less affable Irishman in
every Cabinet, but it is commonly believed that
Turner wouldn’t be sorry if he found a chance to
drop his Celtic colleague overboard wiilio t any
unnecessary splash.
Premier Seddon has announced himself ai
M.L. Treasurer in < f | l ace of the fallen Ward.
The experiment is bound to be interesting.
No one has hitherto regarded Richard of Kumar.i
as a financial expert; he is generally understood
to be only a practical, energetic, hard-headed man
of moderate education and respectable honesty,
who gets through most difficulties by pluck,
tenacity, and plain horse-sense, and when he meets
a difficulty that is beyond his mental resources
hits it an awful wipe with his great fist and flattens
it into atoms. Ward has gained credit for sup-
plying most of the financial detail of the Cabinet,
while Seddon furnished the broad principles ; and
though Seddon has risen unexpectedly to the Oc-
casion over and over again, this isn’t the sort of
occasion that he looks like rising to. Moreover,
financial problems can't be solved by welting them
with Digger Dick’s big fist.
Herewith The Bulletin presents the por-
trait of Robert Stout, probably, of all Australasian
Democrats now living, the one who has fallen
furthest and come down heaviest. He was once,
in theory at least, an advanced Liberal—a man
for and of the people, always preaching the gospel
of the oppressed and advocating purity and stern
morality. But, when the time came to do as well
as speak, he proved wanting. He became Vogel’s
colleague, joint-author of the Midland Railway
scheme and of the measure for the seizure of the
sinking-funds, K.C.M.G., and finally a bitter Tory
with intervals of Liberalism, and a disciple of
the National Ass. Stout is a brilliant orator and
probably the cleverest advocate in Maoriland. He
is a disappointed man inasmuch as he intended to
be the successor of Ballance, and) failing that, he
now proposes, by the aid of the Ass and the Cold-
Tea party, to some day succeed Ballance’s suc-
cessor. But Digger Dick Seddon sits heavy and
sits tight, and Stout, with all his brilliance, seeing
hardly strong enough to shift him.


The hysterical female, with her legendary
tale of how she was assaulted by a man in a dark
street, or attacked with a bottle of chloroform in
a railway-carriage, is haying a rest, and the
hysterical male is taking a turn.-
young man created a considerable scar(PEtm-- s ti iv
day by sprinting into a police-station with a nan
rative about a masked highwayman and a re-
volver, but after an hour or so he owned up that
he got the highwayman out of a novel, and went
home in disgrace. Also, a Victorian small boy of
five years has attempted to lay an informa-
tion against his father and uncle, on the ground
that the father had murdered his farm-servant
, ai ? ™) ar *<i then he and the uncle had sunk
, ?° f y m a dam. Said small boy was bowled
11 a , w ant of finish in his narrative, there
never having been any farm-servant; still, con-
sidering ‘ us a o e > it was a most creditable first
jdtempt.
, . , fils’s mistake in recognising a dead
husband. ATWitthnastown, a few years ago, a
tramp was laid-out washing
up and down round the pier for a day dr two. A
Irantic wife recognised him, and gave him an ex-
pensive funeral, on “tick.” Afterwards her hus-
band turned up—to receive a =£l3 bill for his own
funeral.
The steamer Warrigal takes 500 tons
frozen rabbits from Melb. to London.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing oyer a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
quyer of all other Australian gems.*
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.—A new invention is
brought before the public and commands success.
A score of abominable imitations are immediately
introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in copying
the original olosely enough to deceive the public,
and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputa-
tion and profit.”— Adams. Caution.—Examine
each bottle and see the capsule is marked ENO s
Fruit Salt.” Without it you have been imposed
on by a worthless imitation. Prepared bv J. C.
Eno*s Patent, at Eno’s “Fruit Salt Works,
London, S.E. Sold by all chemists and stores.
m
n
82
..rv
'
,i, '>
ji
* *
r
B&i
yS
ial
The Celebrated Taint dale Orchard, Ourimbah, near Gosford, N.S. W. For Sale by Richardson & Wrench, Ltd.
The celebrated Palmdale Orchard, for sale by
auction on Friday, 10th July. To orchardists,
fruit-exporters, gentlemen, and investors. The
well-known Palmdale Orchard, Ourimbah (in the
famous Gosford district), celebrated for the beauties
of its natural vegetation, marvellous richness of
soil, and strikingly effective views. Palmdale
Estate was a careful choice by its owners out of a
large area of primeval forest, and by art, skill, and
the judicious expenditure of a large sum of money,
a perfect property has been evolved, combining
both the pleasing residential and reproductive
aspects. The total area of land is 140 acres, about
90 of which are cleared, and thereout the
plantation is about 56 acres, representing a vast
number of trees of orangery and orchard sorts, and
in their collection no expense or trouble was
spared to procure the very best kinds ; so that in
a very few years a large annual income is assured.
Great delight, too, ca.n be enjoyed at Palmdale
such as is offered by very few places. Splendid
scenery. Palmdale cottage is most comfortably
furnished and commodious, well built of brick,
with verandah front, side, and rear, and contains
hall, nine rooms, pantry, kitchen, bathroom, &c.
Three cottages for men are conveniently placed,
containing severally three rooms and two rooms,
&c. There are all necessary outbuildings for effi-
ciently conducting so superior a property. The
fruit chamber is novel, and thoroughly suit-
able, by the principle of drafts of cool air, to
store equal to 1000 cases of oranges or other
fruits. It is being sold only on account of the
quite recent decease of W. Yon der Heyde, Esq.,
who held it with his partner, and it is now deter-
mined regretfully by the executors to part with
Palmdale. Cards to view for Wednesday and
Saturday in each week obtainable from either firm
of auctioneers, who will also be pleased to exhibit
to inquirers a schedule of the trees. Photographs
on view at auctioneers’. Richardson and Wrench,
Ltd. (in conjunction with Hardy and Gorman),
have received instructions from the executors of
the estate of the late W. Yon der Heyde, Esq., to
sell by public auction, at the rooms, Pitt-street,
Sydney, on FRIDAY, 10th JULY, at 11
o’clock, the above. Deserving of inspection and
attention.*
Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Great Emporium.
The Colossal and Artistic Show of Australasia.
Universally Renowned as the Great English Cash Trading Firm.
In Full Swing' under the Freetrade Banner of New South Wales.
„ . . . „ Qll fnr nl] that >s made Then, buy for cash, all who would share cheapest and best for look and wear.
" taSurt-SXttei£ ».„310 grandest in the song , its banner highest np the hill i its motto “ Upward„onward still.
Its voice nnr of FINE gold JEWELLERY, DIAMONDS, SILVERWARE, and
Conation of B ri ma ? , sad a Pa_ of Artistic Show.
Prices saving to every Purchaser from Six to Eight Shillings in the Pound.
Watches at Freetrade Prices.
r... nn i n OO J -OQ lAc T o rLi oa 5 nn
nnMhe ot World wide Repute EngHsh throughout, Silver £2 10s JSS, a, „1 JS3 10 s. Ver°v S' eSTuaS S-" mlutiZ” 2dS!£. h KTilfc "l£
to £3 10s. Our Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Princess iveyiess iiuuoc , ___ _
to .£3 10s. Our .Ladies jara.wuuiiuuiw.-v, •
flold Jewellery at Freetrade Prices.
M ttnid Brooches. 10s 6d to 30s. Highest grades, 30s to£lo, thousand*
’v _ iA . qa 0 Hia>hp<sf m.odpa QQs to <£lo thousands to select from, all the very pick of London, latest designs ; Gold
i. variety and display, and at prises to suit ever, purchaser.
Studs, and rms, a mujuuui #
Diamonds at Freetrade I rices.
™ * i-r» Tioripfv and value, no eaual nr:
. , r „ , , rn ,, lp nn enufll nrices £5 5s to =£so; Gent.'s Single-stone ditto, £4 4s to .£100; Stars, Tiaras, Necklets,
The Whitest and Brightest ot the Bright.on* £lO ti”iSs ; Flies, Oroscints. Sprays. Heart Pendants, etc., the linost assortment in Australasia.
Pins, and Studs at all prices ; Diamond nroocue
Pins, and Studs at ail prices, 1 *
Silverware at Freetrade Prices.
K-JAJ- ▼ Vy_L 'TVsr.ttcrariri Articles to select from. 101 l
m, , A to select from Toilet Brushes, Hand Mirrors, Scent and Salt Bottles, Powder Boxes, Trinket Boxes,
Everything that is New just lauded ex m- Mg* •“■ «* ™ ~~ «
Cigar and Cigarette Cases Tea u] newnoBa ot the article on exhibrt PAB EXCELLENCE,
inside, and everywhere aime you wi _ •
inside, and everywhere auao •
Electro-plate at Freetrade Places.
. A o,nne rinht away miles ahead of all competitors. .The Novelty, Wrmty and C
, „ ... „. a Tl Novelt.v Variety and Character of our Stock embrace everything worth looking for, our London
r> . , + .'- hie we stand alone, right away miles ahead of all competit •_ . bri un^r the Ilo tice of those who so favor us hundreds upon hundreds of New Elegant Articles of
House securinfTfor us the very pick U .hi. Department our Prices will be found in many instances one-h.lf that usually charged,
the very best make at all prices trom ■ Whether von live in New South Wales or otherwise, it will pay you to visit us, and also interest you to view
I, you arc a Buyer o, anything in the cSSng’the Dr.ndct Exhibition ami Variety o, Stock ever b.cnght together. Everything New. bhe-ything
the Finest Establishment probably m the petition can come near. .
Elegant, Everything at Prices wh.c _ forwarded (Duty and Carriage Paid) to any part of Australasia.
Illustrated Pamphlet, Post ee .
STEWART DAW SO A & CO.,
j /2
(ieoi‘dostfeet, and Strand , Sydney , New South Wales ,


SHARES OF £i EACH.
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
Sydney Ciipi smhh FBEEHDLD PROPERTIES
sth Prize —£4,800.
273 Prizes
REGISTERED ADDRESS—
“TATTERSALL,”
care of George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.
Please allot me Shares in your
GREAT PROPERTY DISTRIBUTION. 100,000 at 20/-
Name
AiUlretS■
iHEf:
Bth Prize—£3,soo.
Each Subscriber will have a chance of 16 prizes.
Wmm
- "X-
-rmm
:
/*%, ■rs.
" I •*- ** ‘» -.4
1
Sfc£T ‘ ?
■■ .
»
"rff j
fPMibH* I |ij
.£f*v.***'
■ issiils*^ — ~
I 8 WgBETg
(jf?r«s mv***. ..'. -i••: • >••* x-*>- .;. •
-—— -
The FIRST PRIZE consists of BOTH ot these Fine Properties
.
Large Warehouse—George Street. Two Splendid Brick Stores—Kent Street.
FIRST PRIZE - Value £28.500.
List positively closes 30th June, 1896.
*• -j
3rd Prize —£14,500.
...
m
yth Prize —£3,5*0.
\ ■
4th Prize—£6,soo.
100,000 Shares
of £i Each.
Address— “ TATTERS ALL,”
o/o GEORGE ADAMS,
HOBART. TASMANIA.


TATTERS ALL’S
** MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
I
GrandMon&lß
4th JULY*
50,0H0 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Bank B.
Ist AUGUST.
10,000 Subscribers
at 5.
Tattersall’s great property Distribution.
100,000 Shaves of £1 each.
Closes 30 tlx June,
SCHEDULE OF PRIZES.
1896.
1. Large Warehouse —George-street, opposite Commercial
Bank of Australia, Ltd.; net rental, £416. Two splen-
did Brick Stores, Kent-street; net rental, £450
2. Large Block Land—Kent & Princes streets, 80ft. x 330 ft.,
with 4 houses and 2 cottages; rental, £409 10s. Block
of Land, Clarence-st., near Town Hall, 404 ft. frontage
3. Brickworks at St. Peters —With substantial buildings and
first-class brick plant; rental value, £5OO
4. Leasehold Property-Corner of Cleveland and Riley sts.,
Redfern, with Shop and Two Houses ; rental, £l4B 4s.
Splendid Block Land, Harrington-st., near St. Patricks
Church. Portion let for ,£6O
5. Large Dwelling House-151 Elizabeth-street, 10 rooms,
outhouses, and stables ; rental, £220
6. 833 Acres Farm Land— Cooranbong, close to Morrissett-
Railway Station
7. Four Acres Land, Hunter’s Hill, extending to water front-
age, with Stone Cottage ••• ~ VA .
8. Substantial 10-roomed House, “ Narrawah, Ocean-stree ,
Woollahra ; title, Leasehold ; 60 years to run ; no Ground
Rent : Rental, £l3O ... ••• . , 0f)0 r.
Six Blocks Land, Avoca-street, Randwick, 120 ft. x 229 ft....
Two Cottages, Cook’s River Road; Rental, £OB 10s. ...
Block of Land, Avoca-street, Randwick, 40ft. x 249 ft. ...
Four Allotments Land, Rockdale, Ferner s Estate, Nos
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24
34
74
124
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land,
Two Allotments Land, —-
Block Land, Chatswood, 74ft. llin. x 275 ft. ...
to 33. Ten Blocks Land, Coogee, each £lOO ...
to 73. Forty Blocks Land, Rockdale, each £oo ...
to 123. Fifty Blocks Land, Coogee, Hurstville, and Five
to 273 k 150 Blocks Land, Guildford, Galston, and Campbeii
Hill, each £2O
10, 11, 12, 13
Nos. 14 and 15
Nos. 16 and 17
Nos. 18 and 19
Nos. 20 and 21
Nos. 22 and 23
Nos. 24 and 25
Nos. 26 and 27
Nos. 28 and 29
Nos. 30 and 31
Nos. 32 and 33
£28,500
21,000
14,500
6.500
4,800
4,000
3.500
3.500
1.500
1,250
500
500
250
250
250
250
250
200
200
200
200
200
200
1,000
2,000
1,500
3,000
£lOO,OOO
Registered Address: “ Tattersall,” care of GEORGE ADAMS, Hobart, Tasmania.
Please allot me Shares in yOU1 ‘
Great Property Distribution, 100,000 at 20s.
Name
Ad tires !
Canterbury Q.
18th JULY.
10,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
IS!ame_
Address
£
Melbourne C.
3bd NOVEMBER.
100,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE 0.
3rd Kfovemtoer.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
the above.
Name.
Shares in
£
Address
CAULFIELD C.
17tli October.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares
in
the above.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


«s*|gg£W“
0^
, v<To
Awarded.
Gold Medal,
e
’BOBl
‘oO uj
COLEMANE A SOUS, Ltd.,
WORLD FAMED
Bucalypte Extract
Cou?hs, Colds, Asthma, BronohiHs,
V-' Ll XX/AjO Consumption, Influenza, &c., &c.
ASK FOR
Colemane t£- Sons’ Eucafi/pte,
And SEE that you OET IT.
SOLD EVERYWHERE-Is. 6d. and 2s. Gd.
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
BRAWLIN, near COOTAMUNDRA, N.S W.
N.S.W. Assembly refused, by 64 to 31
votes, to even “ deprecate ” the monstrous Dean-
Commission fees job. Such is Party Government •
a Ministry must either be hanged or absolutely
acquitted—it must never be fined five shillings or
get a well-deserved punch in the eye.
Copies of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp
on “Piles and How to Cure Them,” without
operation, by the great “Cannalin” treatment
free on application. Depot for Australasia 257
George Street, Sydney.*
George Ellis, of the Post-office Coffee
Palace, King-street, and the Crescent Coffee
Palace, George-street, claims to provide for men
and women the best cheer and lodging at the
most moderate rates, to be found in Sydney. He
controls 200 bedrooms, and serves upwards of 3000
meals daily and the verdict of visitors, travellers
lodgers, and the general public is summed up in
the one word Immense !”* 1 11
BUCKLEY & NUNN Ltd.
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
GENTLEMEN’S TATLORS & OUTFITTERS
Sole Agents for the “Victoria” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
£lO and D“Ji
£lB and
GENTS’
LADTES’
-‘-■o a,nu
Costumes, Shoes, Oaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST
“ Toby ” Barton says that the Reid Minis-
try calls itself “the God-fearing Ministry because
it has so much reason to be afraid of Go .
A. Saunders, of 815 George-street, Sydney
has long enjoyed a reputation as running about
tlTe cheapest, best-stocked and most widely-known
jewellery emporium in bydney. His stock in
eludes every known variety of every known article
in the jewellery biz. at every possible price except
the exorbitant one. The " bad times of recent
years have struck the jewellery industry very hard
and a large number of firms have been driven out
of the business. All the dealers whose prices were
high and their goods dusty and antiquated have
gone down in the general collapse, and A. Saunders
has risen on their ruins, and annexed whatever
remained of their trade, and is consequently doing
better than ever. There is always room at the
top, and the man who is at the top is never
crowded, and A. Saunders is that man and intends
continuing to be him. #
Every man worth anything is always on
the look-out for a good investment, and every
such man will find a subject worthy of most
earnest attention in the high-class property, Palm-
dale, near Gosford (N.S.W.), a photograph of
which, with particulars, appears on page 17. It is
impossible by a sectional photo., however good in
itself, to reproduce to the understanding a just
and adequate idea of the real inducements of this
fine estate. Tickets, therefore, for personal in-
spection—for a business and pleasure-trip com-
bined-may be had by mere application to Messrs.
Heyde Todman, of York-street, Sydney, or Messrs.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd., of Pitt-street.*
Artificial rr e> e>-t lx, £5.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist, 38 Wynya:d square.
COMPLETE (Upper and Lower) G Id Medal Sets
of perfectly - fitting Teeth, £5. Mastication
guaranteed. These are t he best and lowest in price thatcan
be made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
gums. Old misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering with own
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate after
if wanted. Entire absence of pain during extractions by
the aid of nitrous oxide, chloride of ethyl, or cocaine.
Fee. ss. No danger or ill effects follow. Send for Treatise
on Teeth. Consultations Free. Fees precisely the same
as advertised. Telephone 2167. Established 1879.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNVARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert’s), SYDNEY.
W. W. GREENER’S
fs
CELEBRATED
guns Rifles
Can now be purchased
through all the princi-
pal dealers in the Aus-
tralasian colonies.
CAUTION.
Guns bear the full address,
68 Haymarket, London, as
well as the Maker’s Name.
Anyone desiring advice or
information about guns,
should write to Mr. Greener
while he is in Australia.
Address— W. W. GREENER,
G.P.0., Box 326, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK
116 Pitt Strekt, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Original Cash Fielder.
U \
0 mmissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughout
the Worjd.
STARTING PRICE' 20 to 1 Limit on all Horse races.
Telegraphic Code—“ Westbrook, Sydney.” Telephone
No. 1542.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there ar
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at ir
SYDNEY. One is “ HIE CRESCENT,” situated 63.
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other i
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 5
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. EL CIS.
These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam of Copaiba, Oubebs or In-
I
actions and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
ni it inconvenience.
Sold by all Druggists.
Wholesale A gents:
Elliott Bros. & Co.,
and
Australian Drug Co.
'Each Capsule ts
stamped “ MJDY.**
Missing Friends.
nri'FTO'VrAS MACPHERSON, from Scotland.
A verage height,broad-shouldered, with large
rown eyes and dark hair ; present age about 38 ;
landed in Melbourne 17th September, 1883, from
s.s. eoman, and not heard of for some years,
nyone giving information about the above will
it to his advantage to communicate with
Hesronden, aJ O Gordon and Gotch, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“Sheffield Park,” gossips an Australian abroad
to The Bulletin, “is 43 miles from London, 2i hours
journey by the special slovv-train. The cricket-ground—
an ideal one for picnic cricket—slopes to the ropes and
developes doubles into fourers. An attack of worms has
demoralised the pitch, which kicked and crumbled until
it lay in the dusts of its own disintegration.
“ Albertedvvard was inside a dark-brown suit
and under a black ‘boxer.’ He had a ‘far-off, North Pole’
expression in his eye, his beard electro plated with early
old-age, and his cheek browned with heavenly tanaline.
At his approach the crowd cheered and clapped in chips,
and old Nineteen-and-Six exposed his glistening hairless
nob what time the bridge of his aquiline nose rose like
unto the back of a fighting ‘ Tom.’ A more regal-looking
man than his pictures show, not bloated, but bored to a
death of dullness.
“ The Kruger-faced Earl of Sheffield says the
last match has been played in the Park. He abhors the
London pressmen, whom he terms a ‘ lot of ragamuffins,’
simply because they commented on his childishness in
boycotting the members of Stoddart’s team from selection
in the initial match.
“‘Oh, what a difference in the morning,’ said
‘ W.G.’ to Trott when on the second day 5 wickets fell for
16 runs. George Henry Stephens replied later per medium
of ‘Jonah,’ whose fast ’uns rattled knees, ribs and
knuckles, or touched the bat and passed on to rest in a
waiting pair of hands. Alick Hearne, the pro., said he
never played against faster bowling. But Ranjitsinghi,
when asked how the present Spofforth compared with the
‘ Demon,’ answered —“ After half-a-dozen matches he will
not be heard of ; 41‘Kibbin is a better bowler.”
“The Indian Prince is an undersized, gimcrack-
built stripling. A plate of curry with two bright, black
beads stuck in, and a dozen large, clean grains of rice on
the lower edge, fairly represents his dark, puffy face. A
most brilliant bat, and a far greater favorite than ‘ W.G.’
He repeatedly cut Jones for four between six fieldsmen,
or changing his feet in a flash whipped the fastest to the
leg boundary. His marvellous eye and double-jointed
wrists made up for want of physique, and his pluck was
never ‘ out ’ when called on. In the field as active on his
legs as a strychnine-dosed cat, he works with astonishing
enthusiasm, and only English prejudice can keep him out
of the All-England Team.
“ W.G. never plays in a match without putting
in a claim to the title of William Goat. There was an
appeal for * run out ’ against Darling. The umpire had
his eyes open, and couldn’t give it. ‘ What! !! ’ shouted
the professionally-paid amateur, and subsided into a
silence so heavy that it weighed down the umpire’s eyelids
during the Englishmen’s second innings.
“With the bat Trott, Darling, and Hill shap’d
best in the order named ; Iredale, Gregory and Eady
worst, considering expectations. The solitary Victorian
who played is none the worse for being a stone lighter,
and batted well all round the wicket. Hill showed but
little nervousness, and satisfied even the English one-eyed
critics. Darling and Donnan batted steadily and surely ;
the latterly as indifferently as the former did well. Giff.
bowled with hard luck and batted with none, being given
out in the first round for a catch behind on the wicket-
keeper’s appeal only. George might indeed fairly have
exclaimed, ‘ WHAT ! !! ’.
“ Kelly missed a soft stump, but otherwise per-
formed creditably. M‘Kibbin opened with ‘tripe,’ and
pitched them still shorter after being boundary-ed, but
did better on a second trial. ‘ Jonah’s ’ audacity in hit-
ting the mighty W.G. on the knee, th/gh,' and ribs with
three opening balls is not likely to gain him the boss
cricket-cocky’s goodwill. But for that the strong man
recketh little. He has well, and smiles inwardly
at the thought of the pace he will get-on on a hell-fiery
wicket. Eady did not fill Trumble’s shoes, and his in-
clusion at such a price was worse than an error.
“ Giffen promenaded the ground with half-a-
dozen females —midgets and matrons —in deep black,
drawing forth the remark, ‘ There goes Giff. with his
mourning-coach.’
“Iredale has been described by the English
papers as of ‘aristocratic appearance;’ whilst Jones has
discovered his relationship to a family of nobility.
Climate, bai jove!
“ Australia’s Albert Edward has been engaged
at Lords. He gets, besides a salary, £5 a match. Barring
one score of 58 for Thornton’s XI., he has not, up to date,
done too much for his fivers.
“ Blondin Lyons, inspirited, would say, ‘l’m as
full of runs as a dog is of fleas ; I’ll make 1000 some day.’
No doubt; but where to ?
“ G, S. Trott was introduced to the Prince, who
gave him a flower and a cigar. The phlegmatic captain
immediately bit one weed and puffed complacently, put-
ting the other in his pocket, for his better-half, doubtless.
“Jack Harry has been temporarily taken on at
Lords, and played his first match, a week after landing,
for the M.C.C. v. Leicestershire. He went in first and
totalled B—the third highest score for his side.”
• * « *
Veteran Peel is apparently on the down-grade
as a bowler. He started this season with 1 wicket for 27,
and 2 for 90 against such moderate teams as Warwickshire
and Somerset. Richardson seems to be going strong as
ever, judging from his work against Essex—ll wickets for
170, and 10 of them clean bowled.
* * * *
Comparing the average performances of English
county elevens when playing against one another with
the performances of the same teams against “our boys,”
it would seem that the Englishmen are the better
batsmen, whilst the Australians are much stronger
in bowling. For instance, Surrey played Essex in the
same week that the latter county met Australia. Surrey
scored an innings of 430 against the same bowling which
the Australians couldn’t punish severely. On the other
hand, Essex scored 174 and 236—a considerably bolder
show than the county made when the Australians were in
attack. Somerset siogged a first innings of 323 against
Yorkshire, and Yorkshire replied with 400 ; also Yorkshire
put up a record of 887 against Warwickshire—bigger
figures than the Australians would be likely to make, or
allow their opponents to make, in matches with either of
those teams. So it happens that the Australians may
beat county after county, and yet not have as good a
batting-average in county matches as some of the elevens
that they conquer, because the Englishmen get taller
scores from English bowling.
* * * *
Writing to Adelaide, Ernest Jones early in
May seemed to have scented the Sussex engagement. He
also said that A. J. Webbe has a big opinion of Albert
Trott as a batsman, but does not fancy his bowling.
* * * *
Apropos the Australians’ slow-scoring at Shef-
field Park, on a perfect wicket and with perfect weather,
a London weekly trotted forth the old story of the public
schoolmaster who played the “ blocking game.” The
awful man had been at the wickets half-an-hour for 6 runs
when one of the big-boys respectfully informed him that by
a new rule of cricket the umpire could call him out if he
didn’t raise his bat once during every over. The school-
master appealed to his umpire for confirmation of the
boy’s statement, whereupon the old Yorkshire professional
gave it to him straight : “ Aw don’t know owt abaht that.
But aw know if tha’ does lift thee bat tha’ll domned soon
be out.”
* • * *
The Derbyshire man, Hulme, was the first
bowler to take it out of the Australians on a good wicket
—6 for 54. Clearly, the new man bothered them. They
pottered about until 4.30 p.m. for a score of 138, after
which the blawsted Britishers made 168, at a cost ol three
wickets only, within the next two hours.
• * • *
Meanwhile, the very latest news about the
match with All-England is that Australia went in, and
was knocked out in 75 minutes tor 53 runs. Then the
Englishmen went in, and at time of writing had made 267
for eight wickets, or something equally overwhelming.
Under these ghastly circumstances, all the above gush
about the Australian heroes seems waste of valuable
space. What is the good of gushing about 11 cricketers
who can only make 53 runs among them in the first inn-
ings of a test-match ?
P.S. —“ The glorious uncertainty! ” When The
Bulletin went to press the English Ist innings had
closed for 292, and the Australians, or some of them, were
playing real gate-money cricket: Trott, not out, 141;
Gregory, 103 —4 wickets for 283.
* * * *
This will be the third year of Bischoff in a G.N.
Hurdle Race at Flemington, and possibly the rogue will
again start a good favorite on the strength of a flattering
trial. One or two trainers, besides Scobie, have already
given Bischoff best, and their latest successor doesn’t
seem to have put a new heart into the horse, so far. Last
week Bischoff performed execrably at a Melb. suburban
meeting. But he ran fourth for the big race last year,
and the handicapper has let him in 31b. lighter this time,
therefore, sanguine punters who back rogues for the sake
of what they might do, in the face of repeated disappoint-
ments, may as well pour some more gold currency down
the Bischoifian sink. What’s the odds, when one loser is
just as good as another ?
* * * *
The great horse sport is, or ought to be, killing
itself in Sydney. Present average, about 572 meets a
year ! When a couple of trotting clubs come along and
increase the 11 shows a week to 14, 75 per cent, of the
Sydney public will gradually get into gaol—or the poor-
house.
* * * *
The threatened 8. A. anti-tote campaign has not
eventuated, the Adelaide clergy being too busy over the
share-market.
* * * *
True Blue, winner of the double at Randwick
last Saturday week, paid a div. of £3 for 2s. 6d. in an
Adelaide street place-tote on the Randwick Stakes.
* * ♦ *
In the U.S. they are giving trotting horses
cocaine injections before races to liven them up, and
many Yankee cyclists are said to be taking to cocaine.
May the Lord have mercy on their souls 1 Hell —it is
cocaine.
* * » *
The withdrawal of the two Maorilanders from
their Vic. G.N. engagements was quite expected by
people who knew the horses. They were handicapped
out of reason. Owner Douglas paid £9OO for two of his
intended visiting string, secured specially for the trip. He
reckoned without the handicapper.
* * * *
The novelty of two Sydney racing fixtures in one
day was spoilt on Saturday, rain smothering the intended
Brighton pony-show. A double galloping dose, and foot-
ball barracking in every nook and corner of the metro-
polis, leads strangers to believe that Sydneyites live on
sandwiches of horseflesh and leather.
* # * *
Warwick Farm’s decently-endowed Cup, with
alluring sweep-money in prospective, brought out a good
galloping field, but backers fell by the wayside. The
Trenton filly Wahine demonstrated unwonted finishing
pace, and secured a 20 to 1 chance, an almost unheard-of
winning price at a weekly meet. The enrichment of the
ring was brought about by favorite Newman being knocked
back by a two-horse fall. His training companion won,
but the plunging stable didn’t calculate on the contingency,
and the public followed the betting-ring tip. Glendenon
was unlucky in losing after pacing the field throughout.
The late run of Loch Leigh promised a remunerative
victory in the near future.
» * * •
Hurdler Havanna, Dan O’Brien’s casfc-off, played
leap-frog with his opponents at Caulfield on Saturday on
three legs and a swinger. Cigarette’s grey son, who
lumbered top-weight, appears to be a pretty prime cigar.
* * * *
Totalisator “fractions” at Adelaide R.C.
meeting came to £l9l.
* * * «
People who plunge early have to plunge often,
if their early fancies are scratched. That Melb. backer
who took Waterloo in a 3000 to 30 double illustrates the
turfy saw. Waterloo was .withdrawn next day. Punters
meet their Ikey Mo sooner or later.
• • * •
A solitary Rowe-street (Sydney) bookie was
fined last week for laying a silver double. Scores of
others, who were laying even more openly, escaped obser-
vation. Also, papers published the latest betting that
morning, as usual, and continue to do so, but tho . e are
the quotations of protected top-perch bookies, and do l’t
count. There’s nothing like protection. Even the police
are averse to freetrade in betting.
* * » »
A Christchurch (M.L.) turfite has perfected the
tote, the stamping of the ticket called for ringing the in-
vestment on to the horses’ number and on to the grand total
simultaneously. At present the money-taker calls the
number, another stamps it, and a third rings it on the
machine.
• • * •
A Sydney business man, who never attends
races, noting that there was money in the game, set a man
up with a £3O start in the silver-laying business some time
ago, and has been drawing dividends ever since. The
private cash biz. pays better than his own credit establish-
ment.
* * * *
Gold Prix, the Sydney small-stick candidate, is
a direct descendant of The Wild Irish Girl, winner of Mel-
bourne’s big steeple 40 years ago, when £lOOO was re-
fused for the lepping beauty.
• * * *
A light-weight G.N. double Bischoff and
Will-o’-the-Wisp. The former ran fourth in the Hurdles
last year, and the latter, a fine jumper, hails from Dai-
mio’s stable.
* * » »
Sydney horses have been handicapped in a
patchy sort of fashion for Vic. G.N. Hurdles, but they are
not a brilliant lot. Gold Prix will likely prove the most
reliable of them on the day. By no means a phenomenon,
Payten reckons her a cheap £5O worth, and expects some-
thing in a minor key if he doesn’t annex the coveted big
money.
* » * »
In a Sydney football-inquiry last week a witness
stated that the swearing used “on the umpire” was
“ every-day swearing.” The cognoscenti will smile. Foot-
ball-swearing is a fine art, and for a partisan to so depre-
ciate its merits shows a big lack of artistic instinct. By
the way, the club whose team threw so much mud and
waved their huge feet so violently at the umpire that he
went and got his revolver, has been expelled the N.S.W.
Football Association.
• • * •
The Wentvvorth-’Varsity contest interested a
limited attendance, principally barrackers, who got their
money’s worth. Dashing rushes and heavy scrums were
the main features, the forwards having most of the fun.
It was a fine athletic display ; neither’s line was crossed,
but Went.’s goaled from a free given against an opponent
for hanging on to a particularly dirty-looking ball. The
excellent efforts of the U.’s in the second term made
things look blue, but something always happened to
check their ardor. The solitary mishap of the day hap-
pened, as usual, to a 'Varsity man. Jh e y
convenient to have a playing-doctor in their tea ..
Pirates couldn't even beat Paddington on Satur-
day, but the game was rowed under adverse circs.
ground was one vast sheet of water, and the P'° S
were mostly mud, earth, and very little ball. A
scores were a try each in the first spell. t
The Randwiok-Wallaroo heel-and-toe match
provided a Rugby treat for a wet-day crowd on Saturday,
when the premiers netted a well-earned win by. •
The points give no indication of the real dl ® c r®P
between the contestants, the equalising try of each being
supplemented by a couple of pretty goal drops by
for Randwick. W.’s played the better all-round game, and
should have scored two or three times, but they let
luck at home. Only three or four nasty accidents nap-
pened during play. 0
Saturday’s Melb. football matches resolved
themselves into uninteresting mud-m§l6es before p y
knots of freezing onlookers. Port Melb., who thoug
take down Essendon, went to bits when the la
“ spurted ” in the final quarter, and were beaten 4 goals 10
2 goals. Melbourne, Collingwood, South, and Fitzroy, y
winning their respective scrambles, place a big gap -
tween the five leading and remaining premiership cluD .
Geelong, utterly disheartened, has fallen to third last o
the list.
* * * *
The noble art has declined sadly in M.L. since
Harry Laing fought Slavin on Wanganui racecourse. A
coupie fighting for the so-called championship a few
weeks ago, gave a miserable exhibition, devoid of science,
and not up to a brisk mediocre athletic-hall sparring-
match. The festive Maori doesn’t seem to hanker after
glove and wrestling glory, as of old. A marked prefer-
ence now seems to be given to Saturday Rugby, whic
provides healthier hospital knock-outs, and affords a mucn
better show of getting in on t’other fellow when he isn t
looking.
* * * *
The Vic. football boundary-umpire idea, which,
when tried, was an unqualified success, making the game
faster, opener, and fairer to both sides, in addition to re-
lieving an exhausted and overworked central umpire, is
not followed up because of the slight expense ; it meant
expenditure representing several drinks weekly out of each
senior club’s sundry and professional account.
» * * *
Marchner, the German trick cyclist, who showed
at Adelaide recently, does some wonderful feats. W altz-
ing on wheels, riding without fork or handle-bar, jumping
on one wheel from a chair on a table to the floor, riding
on spokes only, are amongst his performances.
* ♦ * *
Italian Porta is of all cyclists on the Australian
track the most fastidious about his personal appearance.
He never leaves the dressing-room without surveying
himself in a tiny pocket mirror, to see if his hair is
straight, and it cuts him to the heart to go out a second
time in the afternoon in a sweater spattered with
mud. During the time he was laid up at St. Kilda
(Vic.), he used to be besieged by local damsels who
sought to do homage to his brown legs by loading the
bedroom with flowers and pots of jelly, and it was Porta’s
horror that any of the girls should be admitted while he
had a day’s growth on his chin. Shaving himself being
awkward, arrangements were made for a barber to ca.ll,
and, on that individual turning up, Porta subjected him
to a searching examination regarding his competency—
“ You no cut me? You no mek me hoogly?” was his
final suspicion. “ No, I won’t make you ugly,” guaranteed
the man of razors, and, accepting the assurance, the
Italian lay back on the pillow and submitted.
* * * •
Iron-jawed cyclist Martin has explained how he
wins his races. Prior to the event he reckons out the
amount of the prize-money in dollars, and then works up
his imagination until he can see a mythical heap of “ ten-
dollar bills ” at the winning-post—much as the “ subject"
of the hypnotist can feel a pin sticking in his left elbow.
When the bell sounds for the final lap, Bill’s visionary pile
swells in increasing perspective in his mind’s eye, and he
lets out for that pile as his historic countryman reached
for “ that pie.”
* * * •
At Cobar, N.S.W., the other day, John Griffiths
is said to have made the world’s record for endurance by
swinging clubs for thirty hours. Miserable wretch 1
# * * *
Michael, the 19-year-old Bst. Welsh cycling
wonder, is now getting £lOO a week for performing at
Westminster Aquarium, which has encouraged him to get
married. Mick’s trainer was so disgusted at his weakness
that he tendered his resignation on the engagement being
announced. Just as well, if his earnings depend upon
the Cambrian’s future winnings.
*— * *
That Kensington case demonstrates once again
the liability of the law to get lost when misinterpreting
itself. Bettors outside the gates (said Justice-Minister
Gould) were liable to punishment because they offended
on Crown land. But bookies inside (also Crown land)
were ungetatable because the course could not be con-
strued as a “place” within the meaning of the Act. A nice
discrimination between the nondescript silver layer and
the toppered gent with a cigar. The Crown derives
revenue from Kensington racecourse ; therefore, bookies
who play in its yard can lay from dawn till midnight
without let or hindrance.
* * * *
New word—Puntakin: a juvenile punter. Syd-
ney is full of them.
* * * *
“Buying a share” is the latest method of styling
owner’s connection with sweep-tickets. It sounds better
than “ blackmail."
* * * *
Timber-crossing incidents : one jockey refused
lately to ride a horse because it hadn't been properly
trained over hurdles. Another wouldn’t steer a certain
notorious customer unless he was shouted half a pint of
whisky before starting.
* * * *
One substantial winner in a Chinese ticket-lot-
tery the other night was a member of Sydney foorce. But
did he win, or was it only ordinary policeman’s luck?


“ Johnny ” Hawthorne, the new -N.S.W.
Govt. whip, is a staunch teetotaller, and was at
one time Grand Treasurer of the I.O.G.T’s. ,
The Goldsmiths’ and Silversmiths’ Alliance
is a firm which must commend itself to everybody, I
and should be carefully noted by buyers of jewel-
lery, The establishment is in King-street next
door to that good-looking and popular resort, the
catering rooms of the N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice
Co. The Alliance’s premises are unique from the
standpoint of decorative shop art; it is incorrect
to say that they are a study in white and gold,
because the expression presents only a forcible
feeble picture to the mind’s eye. But waiving
this consideration and coming down to the bed-rock j
of all business tests—the question of price and
quality—the Alliance has perhaps the newest and
handsomest stock in Sydney ; the firm’s principals ;
are all long experienced in the jewellery art and
have made most advantageous arrangements for I
importing direct from leading English and Ameri-
can firms. One striking feature is the collection i
of American opals—beautiful gems alight with a
living sparkle.*
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
CYCLE SUPPLIERS
To His Excellency Lord Hampden.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
—FOR THE—
World-renowned HUMBERS, PREMIERS, etc.
W. J. C. ELLIOTT, Manager.
THE BOSTEDO.
FISHER <3c LINGHAM,
Sole Importers, Vic. Arcade, SYDNEY.
TERMS, 2,'H). CASH, £lB.
rs
m
The poor Barmaid having’
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
Mdm. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
Remington TUP e Hitter.
There has been of late a marked increase in the
SALE OF THE REMINGTON
to the Titled Classes and the leaders in every
department of thought and action — Authors,
Journalists, Clergymen, Physicians, Barristers,
Solicitors, and men of business.
Stott & Hoare, Sole Importers.
»:r;
The DAILY USE of the R E M I N GTO N in the
Royal Households is only another indication of
its growing popularity, which is further evinced
by the fact that our machines are used in all
departments of Her Majesty s service in Great
Britain, to the practical exclusion of all other
makes.
Stott & Hoare, Sole Importers.
The RenjiOgtoi) Typ« Writer
—IS—
USED and Endorsed as “the best ” by upwards
of Thirty British Railway Companies, after
Exhaustive Tests by their Leading Engineers,
the London and North-Western Railway Co.
alone using’ some 200 machines.
USED and Endorsed as “thebest ”by
Steam Navigation Co., the Union Steamship
Co., and all other leading steamship lines.
USED and Endorsed as “ the best ”by the Royal
Insurance Co., using upwards
and by nearly all other leading British effaces.
STOTT & HOARE,
SOLE IMPORTERS FOB AUSTRALIA,
126 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
49 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
stashing'an”scrubbing WANTED
V by the Day ; Respectable.
MRS. DALTON,
No. 3 West-st
PADDINGTON.
Amusements.
f H E A T It E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Perfecthm of Histrionic and Scenic Art.
bland holt’s
Gorgeously Brilliant Spectacle; ~ *
“The Derby Winner , > ~ r
A COSTLY AND EXCEPTIONAL PRODLCTION
Which EVERYBODY should SEE while opportunity
offers.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day
Tickets at Power’s.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson and
Musgrove.
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS i
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co’s and A. Hordern & Sons’,
Haymarket. Prices as Usual. Day Tickets at Adams’.
SATURDAY, June 27—A Trip to Chinatown.
IV OLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry Jtickards’s Neiv Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is; Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager. JOHN C. LEETE.
r|l HE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO.
JESF” Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
POTTER-BELLEW SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
J. C. Montesquieu's Original Play,
CHARLOTTE GOHDAY.
SATURDAY, June 27—“ CAMILLE.”
Bex Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
, TWO” WALTZ—Dedicated by special
VV permission to Lord and Lady Hampden. Just
published and well received. Played by Permanent
Artillery Band. Price 2s. All Musicsellers.
HE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL
SOCIETY of VICTORIA.
GRAND ANNUAL EXHIBITION.
Sbow (SroOQds, Fl^njiogtoo
2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth SEPTEMBER, 1896.
LIBERAL PROGRAMME OF PRIZES OFFERED
FOR COMPETITION.
Schedule Comprises 544 Separate Classes
for Exhibits.
General entries close Saturday, Bth August. Double
Fee entries, Tuesday, 11th August. Sales of exhibits of
stock on the Ground.
Members’ Subscription to the Society £1 per annum.
Prize Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
Thomas Patterson, Secretary.
“The Rialto,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
JHE WAXWORKS, MELBOURNE.
Vast Collection of Life-like representations of celebrated
and notorious characters, to which have been JUST
ADDED figures of the most prominent
STATESMEN OF THE DAY
(Salisbury, Chamberlain).
INTERESTING CONGERIES of HISTORICAL CURIOS.
Glassblowing by Mr. C. A. Woodroffe.
PROF. CUNARD and his Musical and Magical Troupe.
Admission —ONE SHILLING. Children, SIXPENCE -
PULVERMACHER
WORLD FAMED
GALVANIC BELTS
Cure nervous Weakness &. br>in Fag,
Cure rheumatism gout & sciatica,
Cure liver & kidney disorders,
Cure sleeplessness,
AND
INVIGORATE
The Debilitated Constitution.
These appliances have been recommended by
several of H. M. The Queen’s Physicians, and are
prescribed by the leading medical men of the world.
Pamphlet, “ GALVANISM”—Nature’s Chief Re-
storer of Impaired Vital Energy, sent free anywhere.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
Electricians & Opticians, 438 George Street, Sydney
THE SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
The south mount lyell mining company
LIMITED.
NOTICE is hereby given that Scrip or Certificates for
Shares in the above Company will be ready for issue to
the Shareholders in the South Mount Lyell Mining Com-
pany No Liability, on and after the Ist DAY of JULY,
1896, on surrender of the Scrip or Certificates for Shares
in the No Liability Company.
Shareholders are requested to forward or deliver Scrip
or Certificates for Shares to the Company at its registered
office—Third Floor, Prell’s Buildings, 60 to 70 Queen-
street, Melbourne.
Dated this 18th day of June, 1896.
By order of the Board,
JAMES P. MADDEN,
Acting-Manager.
Amusements.
QHEV ALIER DE KONTSKY.
The Most Remarkable Event
In the Annals of
MUSICAL HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA.
FLYING VISIT to AUSTRALIA
(Under the Direction of Messrs. W. H. Glen & Co.)
of the
Veteran Pianist and Composer,
The Renowned
CHEVALIER DE KONTSKY,
Court Pianist to the German Emperor,
THE ONLY LIVING
Pupil and Personal Friend of Beethoven.
COMMENCING
Bijou Theatre, Melbourne, Tuesday, June 30.
The Australian Tour will include
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane & New Zealand.
For Particulars see Local Announcements.
HUGO FISCHER, Manager.
National and Agricultural Industrial
Association of Queensland.
TWENTY - FIRST ANNUAL EXHIBITION.
BRISBANE:
AUGUST 11th to 14th, 1896.
Prize Schedule and Entry Forms on Application to
Henry C. Wood, Secretary.
JUST PUBLISHED.
MAY TOURNAMENT: aTennisßhyme.
By H. B. BIGNOLD.
(grice 6d. George Robertson & Co., Publishers.
Ist CLASS.
j[ The Ronisch Piano.
A Bargain for the Buyer and a joy to the Musician.
■- I— ■
SOLE AGENTS. ]AI 0 H Oli SO ]N (Sl CO.,
34s George-st., Sydney (next Equitable Building).
il
A STUDY IN WHITE AND GOLD,"
Tbe Modsri) Jeweller’s Sbop,
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
{ (S<9/dSm i/fcj Sr
'M.
Art Jewellers, Watch Manufacturers, Ac.
Our Price? are Unapproacbed in Australia.
f\ Trial Qr<ltr is Respectfully soiicite<l.
HIGHEST PRICES IN CASH for
KANGAROO SKINS,
GEO. WILCOX & CO.,
9 Young Stbeet,
CIRCULAR QUAY,
SYDNEY.
WALLABY SKINS,
RABBIT SKINS,
OPOSSUM &. BEAR SKINS.
NO COMMISSIONS DEDUCTED.
PAYMENT RETURNED SAME DAY SKINS RECEIVED.
Write for Price List.
SOMETHING TO BLOW ABOUT.
l
/
V
4
V-
y
Ta
s n
JNS
//
Pamous “ NATARA.”
Universally Praised.
ONCE TRIED ALWAYS RECOMMENDED.
FOE
Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis & Influenza.
Quick in Action. Immediate Relief.
Pleasant to the Taste.
la. 6d. per Bottle.
Fisher & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists,
337 George-st., SYDNEY (nearly opp. G.P.O).
Our Dispensers rank among the Best Read and Cleverest
Chemists in Sydney. Registered and Qualified.
Both Homoeopathic and Allopathic Prescriptions accu-
rately dispensed. LOW PRICES.
T
OWN
HALL, WEST MAITLAND.
MONDAY TUESDAY - WEDNESDAY,
June 29, 30, and July 1.
Doors open 7.30 p.m. Commencing 8 sharp.
Carriages 11 p.m.
ADMISSION FREE. NO COLLECTION.
df
Or. IRaloneg,
M.L.A.,
Of MELBOURNE,
Physician,
SURGEON.
Specialist Medical,
Surgical, and Electrical
Treatment by a New
and Unique Method for
the Diseases of Men,
Women and Children.
OCULAR DEMONSTRATIONS of this Scien-
tific and Successful Method will be given by
Treating the Halt, Lame, Paralysed,
Deaf, and Sight, etc.,
t&- In Full View of the Audience !
FREE PATIENTS for the Public Treatment
must be at the above-named Hall by 6.30 p.m.,
bringing letters from Magistrates, Clergymen, or
well-known citizens guaranteeing their cases to be
deserving of free treatment.
DR. MALONEY’S MANAGER ASSIST AN-
TANT, MONSIEUR RICHARD, will give an
interesting and amusing laughter-provoking Elec-
trical Entertainment. -
On presentation of Visiting Cards, Ladies and
Gentlemen will be conducted to seats by the
Ushers in attendance.
The best seats are reserved for Ladies, Govern-
ment Officials, Public Men, and the Press.
The General Public is courteously invited.
Smoking not allowed in the hall. Small children
and boys not admitted. The management reserve
the right to refuse admission to objectionable
persons without further explanation.
DR. MALONEY undertakes SUCCESSFUL
TREATMENT for Stuttering, Deafness, Sight,
Throat, Voice, Locomotor Ataxy, Cramp, Varicose
Veins, Writer’s Cramp, Dyspepsia, The Weak,
Nervous and Debilitated Complaints, and all who
suffer from Brain and Spinal Affections, Fits,
Paralysis, Gout, Rheumatism; Sciatica, Sleepless-
ness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Liver and Heart De-
rangement, Indigestion, Poor Blood, Eruptions on
the Face, Fever, Diabetes, Hydrocele, Piles, Kid-
ney arid Bladder Troubles, Tumors, all Chronic
Diseases of Men and Women, no matter of what
complaint, or the consequences of indiscretion, or
what cause arising from, and all Nervous Com-
plaints, &c., will find PERFECT HEALTH by
this new method of treatment.
In special cases, when an operation is absolutely
required, Dr. Maloney performs such ; operations
by Electricity, without pain and without chloro-
form.
Inquiring Consultation Free. No notice will be
taken of letters unless Postage Stamps are enclosed
for reply.
All Communications Guaranteed the
Strictest Secrecy.
CONSULTING HOURS-8 A.M. TO 8 P.M.
ADDRESS OF PRIVATE CONSULTING
ROOMS, positively up to AUGUST
FIRST, ONLY :
GROUND PARLOUR (Private Entrance),
ROYAL HOTEL, WEST MAITLAND.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘ Mandarin ’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, which
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards and most tender skins
are unanimous in saying that with no
other Razors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbenz’s. Made
by A. Arbenz, Jougne, ■
France, and Birmingham. Introducer of the
original and only genuine “ Gem ” air guns. Insist
upon having guns marked “Arbenz,” with trade
mark “A” in Swiss cross for first quality, and B
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Of
Principal Importers.
s
Houses and Land for Sale.
BUY before the Boom at MANLY! Rival
Kerry Companies have Amalgamated ! Building
Lots only £8 each ; 10s. Cash, ss. Monthly. No interest.
Free Deeds. Plans post free from E. C. V. BROUGHTON,
250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. When writing please mentioy
this paper.


Irritating and Disfiguring
ERUPTIONS
On the Face, Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Remarkable Experience of Miss Dorothy
Maher, Fitzroy, Victoria, whose portrait
we are privileged to give below:
“I take pleasure in testifying to
the great benefit I derived from
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I suffered
from eruptions on my face of a very
irritating and vexatious nature.
For a considerable time I experi-
mented with various so-called blood
medicines, but without any allevia-
tion of my trouble. At last, your
famous Sarsaparilla being strongly
recommended to me, I began to use
it, and after taking two bottles it
was most gratifying to see and feel
the effect in allaying the irritation
and reducing the eruptions. When
I had used three bottles the erup-
tions disappeared altogether, with-
out leaving a mark on my face, and
I have never been troubled with
anything of the kind since.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
MELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
•converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents.—Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell &Co., Ltd.
BE A UTIF UL FL O WEB S
—AT—
SBARL’S,
STDHEY’S PLOEISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
EducationaL
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.—Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal.—E. LENTHALL
•OLDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria.")
“Barber’s rash” is nasty; syphilis is
worse. In France, of late, barbers have taken to
keeping razors, brushes, combs, and the like in a
1 per 1000 solution of mercuric sublimate. Cheap,
clean, and sanitary. Australia, please copy.
A would-be train-wrecker is at large in
Victoria. This individual apparently works
alone, and goes to infinite trouble in piling timber
on the railway-track, so far without much success.
The Australasian devotes a long article to specu-
lations as to what kind of maniac the wrecker
may be, and concludes at last that he is a dis-
torted monster of iniquity, partly ghoul, partly
Deeming, and the rest a mixture of Jack the
Ripper and bottomless pit. And probably he is
only an ordinary miscreant with a little more than
the usual desire to break something. Everybody
wants to break something. The desire to break
things and listen to the crash has been fixed in the
human brain by an all-wise Providence ; therefore
some people throw stones at a bottle, and some
throw stones at windows, and some roll big
boulders downhill on a holiday, and some try to
wreck trains, and some throw eggs at Thomas
Bent. But everybody wants to break something.
The only difference is that some people want to
break a larger thing into smaller pieces than
others do.
Copy of letter addressed as follows : “To
Honor Doctor and Director of Government Camel,
Coolgardie ”: —
The Honor, —Please excuse me I write you few lines en
you respict honor : Please I am bien this colony about 2
years ago and I have do it my camels agencies bussiness
here this time this business is done about 3 months I
have not founded any business to do —because I will ask
with you—if you favor me with you great pleasure and
you will give me place to do the Government Service —
like storekeeper of camel feed ore account maker to the
load of camel ore go with camel on his trip to make
understand of Afghan-man and I will drive the camel—
about any etc. work I will do it. Please I waite for you
great pleasure reply. lam a poor man and I have British
Subject I have en do India whole my service for the
Goverment. Plerse if you will appointed me en you any
service—l hope you and I never forget you with you
great charaty and I will do every service like Book-keeper
ore account maker ore drive the camel and entrpeter with
Afghan man. I know and read and write English and
French and Indian and Afghan. Please never forget you
servant and you will get any place to keep me. Please
apply me with letter Coolgardie P. Office—l am sure
please you will hope me Yours remain Servant Mahomed
Ali.
The ordinary business man’s most critical
difficulty just now is how to get his money in. In
the recovery of debts, especially in circumstances
of difficulty or delicacy, Holdsworth & Co., 101
Swanston-street, Melbourne, meet with singular
success. #
The Jay Pee once more. At Prahran,
Vic., the other day, a man was charged with
brutally assaulting his wife. Owing to previous
illtreatment, the wife had gone out into a situa-
tion, but was persuaded by her lord and master to
leave it and come back to his loving fists, which
fists next day doled out to her such a brutal
thrashing that she was unable to give evidence for
a fortnight. Fined £5, or three months. At the
same court, a man who stole a diamond ring got
six months, without the option, and an intimation
from the Bench that, had the case come before the
Supreme Court, he would have got five years.
Proputty, proputty, proputty !
ROWLAND'S
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves, Strengthens, Beautifies the Hair, pre-
vents baldness, eradicates scurf and produces a
luxuriant growth. Authorities all positively assert
that oil is absolutely necessary to nourish and pre-
serve the hair; therefore use Rowlands’ Macassak
Oil ; also in a golden color for fair-haired children
and ladies.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO.
A pure, fragrant, non-gritty tooth powder; it
whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
strengthens the gums and sweetens the breath.
Ask Druggists and Stores for Rowlands’ articles,
of 20 Hatton Garden, London, England, and
avoid cheap poisonous imitations.
Organs
By STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
for Church, School and Parlor.
Pianos
By E. KRAUSS, GERHARD ADAM,
etc., etc.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS
By REYNOLDS & CO.
F. BESSON & CO.
Violins,
BOWS, STRINGS, and all kinds of
fittings.
Accor deons,
CONCERTINAS, MOUTH ORGANS,
BANJOS, GUITARS, MANDOLINES,
and all kinds of Musical Instruments and
Fittings.
Wholesale Warehouse:
A. P. SYKES
(Late Philip P. Samuel & Co.),
227 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
Price Lists on application.
Minister Peacock’s little idea involving
the teaching of plain sewing to the boys in i°-
State-schools has called forth many protests ron
mothers down South, but the laughing philosop-
persists, having regard for the New oman. >
he asks, is to sew on the buttons and menc
family breeches if not the New Man ?
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skm.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Southern Queensland is largely Teutonic.
At a recent Brisbane police court case both
parties were Germans; counsel on both ®^ es
German ; examination and cross-examination at
one stage also in German, until a witness, object-
ing to a barrister’s interpretation, discovered he
could express himself in fluent English.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
“Success turns a man from citizenship
into respectability.”
1207
124
372
#L
1208
403
126
125
127
234
* ■ 078
57
a 56
*
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD PROM
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc Cool@ pf Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUli TitADH
MAKK
(ftATW)
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A ZJSTRALIAN
X EEDLEWOOI)
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
81207, 7/6 856, 7/5
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Go., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Go., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-streetand 27 Swart
ston-street, Melbourne.
WESTRALIA—
Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
Atclierley & Dawson
By Special Appointment
to their Excellencies,
Viscount HAMPDEN.
Sir R. W. DUFF.
The Earl of JERSEY
Lord CARRINGTON,
and
Lord HOPETOUN.
Choice “ GLOBE ” TEAS.
Awarded FIRST I‘ltlZE and Special SILVER 11 i:i»A I,
at the METROPOLITAN SHOW, 1895. These Teas
also gained the same distinction in Queensland.
These unrivalled TEAS are supplied to Consumers Direct at Lowest Rates. Samples Gratis.
Delivered FREE at any Town in the Colony.
ALL GRADES AND VARIETIES OF TEA KEPT IN STOCK.
257 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY—aIso at MELBOURNE & BRISBANE.
PERPRIAU & CO.’S
mo. e.u.,1. WATERPROOFS
AND
RUBBER BOOTS.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST—FREE.
270 George Street, SYDN^v
PRIZE MfiDAT.
Dr. Keitli’s
Baking Powder
Is the Real Thing. TR.Y IT.
**■ AND HAVE SOME GENUINE BAKING POWDER FOR A CHANGE. 13u
Gillespies Flaked “Grainea”
Is the Most Perfect PORRIDGE POOD ever Invented.
iilMf y
H. HILLIER,
Manufacturer & Importer,
135 and 137
Sussex Street, Sydney.
\s:
Don’t forget the SULKY, as shown wV.n 13 10s * ’ Cushi ™ Tires, £lO.
10s
rom me. ' 1 aoesn t m—ter what you want in this line—you can gel
A household word— HILLIER’S Saddles known nil ,e
I. 6d. It applies also to Harness : you can get any stvie at an v or j^ ow Prices. Saddles, complete, fr
3 S 3 Style at an > P rlce 30s. upwards. Send for Catalogue.
All
it from me
39s
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
infants
9
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
DrugCo„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere
'“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aced


fc ■
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HERBAL
ALF ALINE REMEDIES
(Registered)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Bloocl and Nerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY COLONIES BUT. THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OVER 10 YEARS,
AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
List of the Alfaline Remedies
Vitality Restored
ALP ALINE
VITALITY PILLS
Are the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Austra-
lian public for many years, and stood a test which
may well he envied by all other manufacturers of
similar remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bility, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and. Kidney Pills— l/- 3/-, and 6/-.
Alfa tine Rheumatic Pills— Special Double course,
43 6 ; ordinary course, 23/6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -Boxes, 23,6,
12 6/-, and Si-.
Alfaline Universal Pills-For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43 6, 23/6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder-Boxes, 6,-.
Alfaline Injection Powder-Cures the Whites.
Boxes, 6/-. _ .
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— Boxes, 6/- and
3 -.
Alfaline Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, 1/- and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 1,6
Alfaline Bath Tablets -Prevents Diseases, Regu-
laies the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes. 1/-; posted, 1/6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c., «c.
Blood Purified
ALFALINE
LOCK CURE FILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonic-
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It is not the usual Mercury remedy,
hut a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALF ALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint he im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rassmussen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices. —With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/-
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
Herr RASSMUSSEN. c/o any of hie Intercolonial Branche., or, if you prefer it, to hi.
Head Office : 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus -PROPRIETOR, Box 208, GmMAL Post Omo* SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
Important.
ta- ADDRESS your letters to
w A R N I N G -
_ . . . 0.1. Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should
as advertised on this pa g e. An Herr
RASSMUSSEN S REMEDIES are guarantee:d PURELY HERBAL,
and Branches as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free,
andean only be obtained fromi his own Cq ^fIUENT a nd Remedies and Pamphlet
PO Rft h'SPON DENCE i - LiA . , .
Bent unobserved in plain cover. Any whether you send to his Head
Malce C heques or Money Orders payable to nans xn*
Office or
Selected Testimonials.
Nerves Cured.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir —I have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, I consider you are deserving of success,
wmch I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I coa-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later: —“ The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill ; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor. 1
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wish Fulfilled.
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, JN.b.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Here Rassmussen,
I atn pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for six.
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shalls
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they-
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which,
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have-
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to.
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to>
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You;
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year of 1871 I was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E._
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as.
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On]
Thursday before Good Eriday I took the first of
your Pills; since then I have used 4 boxes Special!
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special!
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver-
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline]
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing;
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years agoi.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
Witness: Edward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debiiitv of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you,
can make what use you may think proper of this..
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness : John Hagerman (my husband},,
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh - street,.
Sydney.
A. Valuable Free
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuable
information, and many useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality as well as
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will be
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. Ihis book contains a laige numbei of test)
monials as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and U nobs rived
Herr Rassmussen s
Head
Office:
547 George St., Sydney.
AND AT HIS INTERCOLONIAL , BRANCHES :
Melbourne :
Adelaide:
150 Bourse Street
151 Bundle Street
Brisbane: 100 Queen Street
NZ. : 91 Lam Mon Quay, Wellington
Corner Hav and William Streets, Perth.


A Ballarat banker who embezzled £1077
was sent to gaol for six months by pious Judge
Hodges the other day. His Honor said that his
bowels of compassion had been moved by the fact
that.prisoner had stolen the money because of the
sickness of those most dear to him, and had not
spent it on horse-racing or other low pleasures.
How would the burglar who cracked cribs to buy
medical comforts for his sick mother or his little
brother Bill fare at the hands of Judge Hodges?
The Bulletin fears that the filial or fraternal
sentiments of a low thief would not count for
righteousness. Only respectable-looking prisoners
who have had a clean shave and who wear
‘ ‘ decent ” clothes are supposed by the law to be
possessed of the finer emotions. And then em-
bezzlement is such a genteel crime ! Judges and
the “ best people ” in Victoria grow so tolerant or
it that it is in danger of becoming a new virtue.
Henry Lawson's book of collected verses,
containing all his best Bulletin poems, may be
had post-free from this office for ss. sd. in stamps
or postal-notes of any province.
“Thrift plants outposts of Capital m the
ranks of Labor. _
The greatest corporation on earth w the
London and N.W. Railway-capital,
revenue, .£l3OO per hour - engines, . n es
covered’per year, 41,000,000; employes, 00,000,
passengers, 150,000 per day.
MIND
YOU GET
WOLFE’S
The Only
REAL
SCHNAPPS.
POSTS AND RAILS
For the Country.
Mark Foy sends Daily hundreds of Posts and hundreds of R
the country - not wooden ones. That would be like sending coals to ew "
castle.
Mark Foy’s posts are parcels by post, and rails are larger parcels by
rail.
Carriage Paid.
Post Haste.
From MARK FOY’S.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letiers of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON , Manager.
tpHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
r LASIA Ltd.
Incorporated under the “Companies* Act 1890.**
Authorised Capital £4,000,000
Capital Paid-up .. „ £1,598,549 2 9
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 151,450 17 3
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 760,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirW. A.ZeaI,K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Auditors: VV. H. Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), wnth Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Direotor: Hon. VV. M‘Mil!an, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
rpHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
“ (Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane,
CAPITAL PAID-UP _ £366,358
RESERVE LIABILITY ... _ 300,000
RESERVE FUND .. ... 30,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Universal Land & Deposit Bank
LIMITED.
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Incorporated under Companies Act of 1874.
Fixed Deposits received at 5 per cent, per
an u uni.
All business arising out of Real Estate transacted.
This Company Never Suspended Payment or Re-
constructed in any way since its formation.
ERNEST C. Y. BROUGHTON, Managing Director.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £43,733 0 0
DIRECTORS : E. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—-Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estates undertaken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
EREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CLARKE & CO.,
STOCK Si SHARE BROKERS,
COLLINS STREET,
No. 314. Melbourne.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
J 3ank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £3,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital 1,928,380 0 0
Reserved Fund 1,183,576 12 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. I Thomas Cadell, Esq
Robert C. Close, Esq. | James T. Walker, Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
Loudon Office-Old It road Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their_behaliin.puhlio
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales:
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS since commencement of the
Society exceeds
Twenly-two Millions sterling (£22,160,000)
Being an average of over a MILLION for each year of its
6XiBt6llC6<
T. JAQUES MARTIN, General Manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £6,000,000
Paid-dp .. .. .. £3,955,381 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors : Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JUshopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhaß Street, E.C.)
TJank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
phtenix Assurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... ... ... £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1 120 789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed £20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
Talten
as Cash all
over the World.
The Cheque Bank Limited, London.
CAPITAL, £500,000.
Established over 20 Years.
CHEQUE BANK CHEQUES:
Travellers' Drafts.
Circular Notes.
Money Orders.
FOR REMITTANCE OF MONEY to all parts of the World, are CHEAPER nnH h
innumerable advantages over Ordinary Money Orders. and h »ve
FOH Ji^i“ r E Not«" S ,nOS ' CO " ,e ” i “ t f °"“ of -oner, and the most useful
C,Sl Stir i * ° f 20,000 BankS aU OV " the World ' “ d *>y o™t 2200 Banks in
SYDNEY AGENCY: Handbooks am all Dmm™. on Appl.cat.on,
56 Pitt Street .near Bridge-st.) MALCOLM,
General Agent for Australasia.
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd
INCOItrOItATUU 1870.
Directors :
Hon. G. THORNTON, M.L.C.
(Chairman.)
H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., J.P.
Hon. F. B. SUTTOR.
ef
Registered under the Companies
Act, 1890.
CHIEF OFFICE IN NEW SOUTH
WALES :
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES
ALL PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMRFP'i
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY
SURRENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditiona Liberal.
Security
M. M‘CRAE, J.P., Resident Secret/
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIIItTIIEU ItIKHKIt KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to =£lo
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, 60 Market Street.
Cable Address— Kiemseil.
Code— Moreing & Neal, eto.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 337, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
STOCK &. SHAREBROKERS,
Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide
(Lace Australasia Chambers, King William St.).
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
avaUabh^T 8 ? f ) VeBter . n Australian Stocks always
Hill? ° rmat, ° n fr ° m SpeCial Cor ' M P°'‘'
Stocks' SU w°i all Australian Investment and Mining
D.po.Tt BeSliu i“ Bank
r^'sr amm ~ *« *»«««*
T. J. <i l I/I>J \,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
mining exchange entrance,
JOII2I BEaiCgreg'or
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
took, Share, Finance and Companies
liedlietionvFoS^H'^ 0
Front Exchangei Meibourne.
DQYOUW^ta
CATALOGUE?


Business Announcement.
The people of Queensland
—IN—
TOWN and COUNTRY DISTRICTS
Are invited to send their Orders to, or Visit the
Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES,
AND CO.,
BRISBANE,
WHERE the FINEST STOCK in the COLONY
—OF—
General Drapery, Tailoring, Clothing, Shirts,
Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
Mattings, Furniture, Eedding, Bedsteads,
Glass, China and Crockeryware
Can be seen in all Qualities, from Low-Priced
Lines to Very Best.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS by giving clear
description of their requirements, stating prices
they wish to pay, and enclosing remittance to
cover amount, will always get from us best value
procurable for their money, and will be as well
served as if in town to select for themselves.
Our Goods are always New, Up-to-Date in
Style, Underneath in Price,
And we serve all customers alike. An examination of our
GOODS and PRICES will be found an economical lesson.
Finney, Isles, & Co., Brisbane,
And at MARYBOROUGH (Q.),
And 27 Milton-street, Fore-street, London, E.C
A Beautiful Fabric.
THE CELEBRATED
“LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
-i n.
m
-
> r
LUSTROUS
BLUE BLACK.
PERMANENT
JET BLACK.
Rich & Rare Colors
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT
Genuine “LOUIS
VELVETEEN” is
specially recommended
for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns,
Dinner Dresses, Chil-
dren’s Dresses & Cloaks,
Millinery, Trimming,
and Art Decorative pur-
poses.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS” Velve-
teen bears the Name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no other
way), and is stamped with a Guarantee of Wear.
Hairdressers and wigmakirs.
To tlic Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
varietv of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12 and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basina, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops Hot Water > Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers Poles
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, Jo.
NT B —We engage men for Country Clients and
give’trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality ; best
newest design, 10s. 6d.; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from «wn pattern of hair
r d *•*© '5-£- Jr*
Com resting** ml to 'order .. lowest
quotations AI TKEN.
NEW SOTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE,
GBO «S 682 George Street, Sydney.
sdwerh
'GREENFIELD)
.BARRACLOUGHyjj
LATEST
PINCE-NEZ
Greenfield and
Be<rr£i»clou.§flij
Spectacle Makers,
371 GEORGE STREET 371
'(A. Street, SYDNEY).
Sir SAMUEL GRIFFITH pleM«re f i" J “®
in certifying to V»“' nl c„^
•Opticians, in whom the public nnay piacc
Sight Examined Free of Chat ge.
THE FA MOTTS
Acori) Wbi^ky.
rustus van MauriU’s
—CELEBRATED —
potcb Cigars-
TEA BISECT [rm the PLANTATION .
Ho, .AC, P. Ellis, Ol-mbers, Svdslv
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition : 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
| long.*
The Only
Certain Moustache
Producer.
111 Try It.
unuuini
Posted (under cover)
to any partof Austra
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10 0
Sole Agents:
The Result.
& Aitken, 680-632 George-st, Sydney
Craig
NOW
dgcd
owl
o^v
&
BES I
MAR
M.W.fcC°
VOLCANIC
Soda Wat er
IS ABSOLUTELY pure.
At all the Leadlng_H<>tel. and Chen
Volcanic Aerated Water Co.,
Th “ Bulleti'J Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Business Atnoincernents
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED BY
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
ft
T J
FOR—
Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds,
Coughs, Golds,
Influenza, etc.
Ask for Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.
Prescribed and Recommended
—BY —
MEDICAL MEN.
111
) MaUL
Jkynem
—FOR —
INDIGESTION,
ACIDITY,
Nervous Headache.
The Family Medicine.
%WE Strongly Advise Yo(i
Before purchasing elsewhere to inspect our
STOCK of
Wall Papers.
Oils apd Colors-
apd PaiptS.
Sbggt & Fapcv Platg-glasS-
PiQt6r€S & MoOldipgS-
Our DEFIANCE DYES are BETTER,
CHEAPER, MORE BRILLIANT, and LAST
LONGER than any other.
H. H. GROTH & CO.,
529 George Street, SYDNEY.
57
YEARS DYEING
FOR. THE LADIES.
w.
40
O. BLI3EIEGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
YORK STKI'iET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
—lucerne
(SMuMOL
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
3K IN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
otti.es, Is. and 2s 6d.
BEETHAM &SON. Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
KI.TON
GRIMVVADE & 00., Me bo mi*-.
liLLlorr BROS., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
HIGH-CLASS
LUBRICATING OILS
for
Steam Engines,
Gas Engines,
Oil Engines,
Dynamos,
AND
EVERY DESCRIPTION of LIGHT
and HEAVY MACHINERY.
thb “champion
(Registered) LUBRICATING OILS
m
m
Are positively the best in this market.
All Cases, Tins and Barrels Branded bv us
“ CHAMPION.” can be relied on as containing
only High-Class Lubricating Oil of one uniform
quality. „ . ,
We warrant our “CHAMPION OILS entirely
free from Grit, Gum or Acid.
SEND EOR PRICE LIST.
H. P. Gregory Compy.,
Engineers,
General Machinery Merchants,
315 Kent Street, SYDNEY ;
499 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for the
Champion Lubricating Oils.
Publications
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “ Martha,” “ Robert le Diable,
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore ” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
0-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-Q
!-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-
THE GOVERNMENT
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
y DICTIONARY j
STANDARD
Send for free prospectus
containing- specimen
pages, illustrations and
full particulars
G.&C.MerriamCo.
Publishers,
40 Huntei: St ,
Sydney.
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o
Greo. Robertson & Co *
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photograph s of English A Cjolonial Celebritim
A. LONDON SUCCESST
New Coon Song.
OH, HONEY, WILL YOU LUB DIS COON.
Pricp, 6d.
Also, same price, the popular song, “LOVE'S VESPER
HOUR,” by Lindsay Lennox, and LOVE S VESPER
WALTZ ” by Then. Bonbenr. 1000 other SONGS,
DANCES, etc., at 3d. EACH, of all Dealers, or from
Publishers, W. PAXTON A CO., 80S Swrinstoii-sL,
Melbourne, ami Ift Oxford Street, London.
Catalogues Free.
medical.
P 3; •
T~> B A. E* IVT IE! S S and Head
Noises relieved by using WILSON’S Common-
sense Ear Drums, New Scientific Invention,
without wire or string—safe, simple, com-
fortable, invisible. Write for pamphlet,
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
YOUNG
AND OLD
MEN
If you are discouraged by the failure of cure-alls and
unskilled treatment, consult the eminent specialist,
Dr. Walsh, L.R.C.P. & S., Ed., a legally qualified
and registered physician, who guarantees to cure
each and every case he undertakes.
| No Stomach Drugging |
Consultation and Diagnosis free.
“THE BRIGHT SIDE”
A valuable
illustrated
medical work on brain and nerve exhaustion
and its cure, by Dr. Walsh, sent sealed-six stamps.
All communications confidential.
Address : DR. G. WALSH, 51 Hunter St., Sydney.
THE
BRITISH&COLONIAI DRUGGIST
says : —“One must have a good article to
offer. No advertised article can live on
shillings or sovereigns caught one by one
—advertisement by advertisement. It is
the sales by recommendation that make
up the back-bone of any advertised busi-
ness.’’ How true: The popularity of
WARNER’S SAFE CURE is due more
personal, neighbourly, friendly recom-
mendations, than to advertising. There
is not a reader who will read this but
knows of some acquaintance or friend
who was cured by using - >
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
Coolamon, N.S.W., May 15th, 1894.
“ For several years I have been engaged in
travelling with stock in different parts cl the
Colonies, and while so occupied was seized
with an affection of the kidneys, and- at
intervals have been compelled to lay up in
consequence of theexcr. ciating pains from
which I suffered in the back and sides, more
especially when riding. At times I was un-
able to sit on myhorse, and was fearful i hat
I should be compelled to give up my situa-
_tioa.- Alt 6ther remedies That were tried
having failed to effect any improi eihent in
my condition, and hearing cf the . cures
effected by Warner’s S..fe Cine in similar
cases, I resolved to try it. Five bottles of
Warner’s Safe Cure ar.d one phial ct Sale
Pills cured me. Having experienced so
much benefit myself, I have glad y made it
known to my fellow drovers, some of wlipm
have expressed astonishment at the good
results produced, in some instances in a
marvellously short time.”
(Cattle Drover.) F. Silverwood.
The Bulletin notices that all the baby-
farming murderesses bowled out during the last
few years have possessed a distinct literary twist.
They all wrote excellent letters—perhaps that may
T5&T«r-wecessity of their calling. Mrs. Dyer, hanged
in London last week, wrote most plausible, free,
and flowing epistles, and while awaiting trial
asked a friend to send her “ Pr-ndemiis,” “East
Lynne,” and “ Bamaby Rudge.”
Apropos the case of Surgeon Lea, of the
Ringarooma, thus a writer in the Practitioner :
Some years back a naval officer whom I knew was com-
ing round from Sydney to Melbourne on one of the large
mail liners, and was horrified to hear the captain order a
course which would have driven the vessel on to the rocks
of Point Lonsdale. On speaking to the captain about it,
he was angrily told to mind his own business, and the
course was repeated to the quartermaster with emphasis.
The gentleman then went to the first officer and told him
of the circumstance, and the latter saw at once the danger
the vessel was in. He also remonstrated with the captain
in vain, and then, taking the law into his own hands, had
the captain secured in his own cabin, and altered the
course just in time to save the ship. The captain had to
he removed to an asylum two days afterwards !
One Yallander, of Wangaratta, lately sued
Vie. Railway Depart, for damages sustained at a
gate. The gate in question was opened for Yal-
lander by a child, and, as plain tiff was driving
through, it swung back, striking and crippling his
horse. In the trouble that followed, Vallander
and his wife and child sustained cuts, bruises,
breaks, and abrasions valued at =61250. The trial
was conducted with due solemnity ; the accident
was admitted, also the child ; but defendants con-
tended that the child’s grandmother was the pro-
per person to have opened the gate, and, as she
had not done so, the department was not respon-
sible. Case dismissed with costs. Moral no one
should ever pass through a Vic. railway gate with-
out first assuring himself that it has been opened
by the duly-qualified grandmother, and if the
official grandmother is not there he should camp
on the wrong side of the gate till the old lady
turns up and opens the said gate within the mean-
ing of the act.
An Australian religious “ organ ” recently
advertised for a manager, “ able to keep books,
read proofs, ” &c., &c. From the deluge of applica-
tions received the most likely were sorted out, and
the writers requested to call on the “board of
management ” —consisting of half-a-dozen parsons.
Each quivering seeker for the good billet was
solemnly and closely interrogated with regard to
competency. He was then told that the salary
would be £1 per week ! If this information didn t
break-up the would-be manager, the boss parson
imperatively demanded “How do you intend to
live on this pound ? ” The suddenness of such a
question was too much for the majority of those
interviewed, and, murmuring something about
“ going to a quiet place to think it over, they
reached for their hats and staggered from the
awful presence. One quiet-looking young fellow,
however, whose clear, unclouded eye showed con-
sciousness of moral rectitude, met the question
unabashed. He pressed his hands together, cast
his orbs Heavenward, and said he d leave that
matter with the Lord.” The b.p. admitted he was
beaten, and the young man was duly installed.
And day by day he keeps those books,
And reads those holy proofs ;
His work is pure, he never looks
At marks of Satan’s hoofs. _
He hums a hymn in leisure time:
No worry clouds his brow ;
His life is sweet as a church-bell chime,
For he lives—well, God knows how !


Til.ore is s'ill living in Sydney, at a great
Age, a Q itkcr who, as a young man, was present
at tV? World's Anti-slavery Convention held in
London in June, 1840. Thomas Clarkson pre-
sided, and it was the scene which ensued, as a
tottering old man rose to open the proceedings,
that was taken by Haydon, the historical painter,
as a subject for his picture of the event. Hay-
don’s written account of the opening is a most
remarkable piece of word-painting. To f > con-
clusion of Clarkson’s speech, the vast meeting
responded with a tremendous “Amen.” Says
Haydon :
The death warrant of slavery all over the earth was
boded by that “ Amen.” I have seen the most affecting
tragedies, imitative and real, but never did I witness in
life or in the drama, so deep, so touching, so pathetic an
effect produced on any great assembly, as by the few un-
affected, unsophisticated words of this aged and agitated
man.
The old Quaker spoke that day to Sir George
Stephen (cousin to N.S.W. Chief Justice Alfred
Stephen) who had taken a leading part in the
Anti-Slavery Propaganda, and he remembers dis-
tinctly Stephen, in response to a remark that it
was appalling to think that English gentlemen
could be guilty of the atrocities attributed to them
in their treatment of slaves in the West Indies,
saying, “ The English gentleman only believes in
liberty and justice for his own class.” Stephen, a
few years afterwards, came to Australia, and,
after a career at the bar, occupied a quasi-judicial
position in Melbourne. It was his son, Wilber-
force Stephen, who gave the Victorians their
Education Act. Sir George, as a young barrister
in London, wrote a book on horse-dealing, and in
his later years in Melbourne wrote a “ Life of
Christ.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
The Lord loveth a cheerful liver.
To Cure sore Throats
WOUNDS, BURNS. SORES, m„l .ill DISC.MUCKS, ami for purifying drinldn-
- 0,, . „ water, use CONDY’S FLUID.
hold by all Chemists. Look of directions on every bottle. Condv & Mitchell of
London, England, are the sole makers. Insist on buying “ '!«> nj • y* -s F i IT r O ”
Use “Condy’s Fluid.”
From the pitors’ Book.
MAX O’RELL.
“ Sydney has as much right to be as
proud of this hotel as of her harbor.”
SARA BERNHARDT.
“ May I be always treated as well as I
have been treated at the Australia.”
HOTEL . . .
. . AUSTRALIA.
RATES:
From 12S. 6D. PER DAY up-
wards —inclusive of all meals.
N. Edwii) Moore,
MANAGER.
CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EVERYONE INTERESTED IN PHOTOGRAPHY
Is invited to visit our Large, New and Centrally-situated Premises, 66 KING STREET (near George-
street), comprising Five Flats, or to write for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of over 200
PAGES, which we post free on application. We keep the most Modern and Complete-Stock of
** Pbotograpbk Materials**
And compete in Prices with any House in Australia.
We cheerfully give information and pay every attention to our Customers. Correspondence invited
from Local, Country, and Intercolonial Photographers. WE ARE HEADQUARTERS FOR
POCKET
PRICE 21s,
Loaded for Twelve Exposures.
v.y >
KODAK.
EXTRA EXPOSURES
1/6 per Roll of 12.
YOU PRESS .Lari BUTTON—WE DO THE REST.
Proprietors of The Australian Photographic Journal, illustrated, price 4d., now in its fifth year. The oldest
and only Photographic Magazine entirely edited and printed in Australia. It contains the latest and most valuable
Information, and no photographer should be without it.
HARRINGTON & CO., LIMITEP.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL MERCHANTS, 66 King Street (near George-st.), SYDNEY.
gTOP THAT COUGH!
Don’t Delay—TAKE
BONNINSTON’S
IRISH moss.
“ My Dear Mr. BONNINGTON.
[copy.]
“ Theatre Royal, Sydney, April 20, 1896.
“ Allow me, on behalf of Mrs. Holt, to thank you very sincerely for your
kind thought in sending her, on Saturday, a bottle of your famed Irish Moss. I may say that
it is an old and valued friend of ours, and I am sure our esteem of its virtues will be
strengthened by the acquaintance with it which we now renew, through your good agency.
“With all sincere wishes for your success and well-being,
“I remain, yours cordially, BLAND HOLT.”
mm
SSSIII
* .*4 4
m
f.M
r li
■W
*'< —y -: •k 1 " ■
■•'■■ ?*&»? *
£** ■ -' jr^. ~g<
- r
,*■ .x-'F;
• ,
t fkX^C
«
mniTT's
FED ON
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits.
The Children’s Food .
BE Sure YOU GET
ARNOTT’S.
mmWnmm \JwTa
THE
' Plum ’
Plum
ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of shears, can testify to tlieir merits. We f/uarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price | o- ng ! e azor ’ j n strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
Si
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HQMEUR,
Obtainable from all Leading 1 Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Borsdorff & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
“O BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
and at
Adelaide & Hobart
.Trade Mark.
ET
%
■j-
/
HD
7
«-C
♦
HOCMMD’S marvellous MM RESTORER
4,
&
■
%
#
XS rightly considered by thousands of people
„ f 7° f m itS wonderful on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
Zt wnr r the ° preparation
that will arrest the premature decay and per-
manently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
X
M-
%
°£
i
-S'
Mr. HOLLAND. the following Genuine and unsolicited Testimonial *-
?r* 01 n th „SiK« In
convinced that anyone who will use vonr P'Ltn.- Q ,? r S , r ,’ and he would on no account K ea a new growth
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HATH amt* T m Yours truly, g.C. ’
worth its weight m gold. Ask your Chemist for “ A^ D ITS TREATMENT ”
IB " " le -^.£*.*>-■ M.. 12,
Jh. HOLLAS D, Hair Specialist,
Wellington-street «st vtt t. 7
reet, hT KILDi, VICTORIA.
It
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
A Pure Tobacco Dip. Best and Cheapest in the Market.
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP.
A.bsolutely Destroys Ticks anc3. Lice. cures anta F*reve +
Nicotine Mange Cure (in bottles), |-pts., i/c; pts., 2/6 each. Nicotine might Cure (inb n?T?
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO., “Rialto,” Collins-street, MELBOURNE- r,s Pin * 7'J pts ’ V 6: S
mtmmwmnwmsammrmß W ’ Dd 1 itt-street, SYDNEY.
•irot,.
9 /6 each.
Dl


/T
rn
LIPP PIANOS
BRINSMEAD PIANOS
VICTOR PIANOS
AND ALL
OTHER
GOOD
MAKERS
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
w for strictly first-class Pianos for Prompt Cash or Time
Our Prices are very low tor stncuy
The Best Tone and Most Reliable.
BRASS BAND and all kinds of MUSICAL INSTRUM
m
p S f/,BUSHED /q Sj
330 QEORQE STREET,
The largest Piano Business in
Australia.
PIANOS
ORGANS
USIC
And all kinds of Musical Instruments.
W. H. PALING & GO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1553.
best security is to deal with
an old-established responsible Firm, whose
guarantee is of value, whose interest
it is to sell only good and reliable Instru-
ments. Call or send for Illustrated Cata-
logues and Price Lists post free. Old Pianos
taken in Exchange. Instruments sent
everywhere on Easy Time Payment System.
“The Sport of Kings"—and
Other Thieves .
The usual healthy crop of race-accidents at
Country shows have been chronicled lately, but merely in
a perfunctory, insignificant fashion. At one undertakers’
gathering a couple fell in one race, two more in another
and four in a third. The fact that eight jocks, weren’t
killed instead of only two horses was a lucky circum-
stance. “ It’s not the dangerous courses, as alleged,” said
a steward lately ; “ it’s the foul riding that brings ’em
down.” Precisely. The stock - furrowed circus - tracks
have nothing to do with it. The Government ought to
seize the majority of these country run-rounds, and
gazette them as graveyards.
* * * *
One of the most interested spectators of a recent
neck-and-neck tussle was a leading rider who would have
been in an uncomfortably tight place financially had his
well-backed choice lost. Yet he has had sacksful of
money in his time. The old tale, and the old moral.
Jockeys who make and keep money form a very small
proportion of the professional crowd. The assets of the
average reinsman generally comprise a strong pair of
hands, a capacity for moistening the system, ahd a huge
stock of native impudence.
* * * *
One jockey, with stronger arms than will-power,
was lately heard cursing the day he was born. “ Passed
out to-day,” he said, “and it’s my birthday. And, blime,
I got a ‘ sixer ’ this very day last year.”
* * * *
The election of the first lady member of a racing-
club in M.L. opens a new source of club revenue. The
New Turfite of the future won’t badger her male friends
to take her to the races. She’ll join the club and go “ on
her own.” And Ikey Mo may yet tremble in his boots if the
fair sex—but The Bulletin forbears, for the present at
all events.
* * * »
A certain trainer drew another trainer’s rather
smart prad in a sweep and was asked for a big cut out of
the probable proceeds or else the horse wouldn’t weigh
out. The holder, not over friendly, and not very parti-
cular, told him to scratch and be hanged. He did. Just
what the ticket man wanted. He won the stake with a
well-backed ’un of his own, and scooped a large slice of
the sweep from the man who had drawn his horse. It’s
now nip and tuck between those two stables, sweep or no
sweep.
* * * *
Overheard on the course. Tormenting lady-
punter to bad-tempered jock : “ Got any show in the han-
dicap?” “No.” “ Horse not well ? ” “No.” “Lame?”
“No.” “Not enough work?” “No.” “Too much
weight?” “No.” “ Field too good ? ” “No.” “Want
more money?” “No.” She (loudly) : “Is he going to
start?” He (furiously): “No.”
* * * *
An observant Adelaide owner declares that it is
only a matter of a few years when S.A. clubs will be
enabled, through the tote, to give better prizes all-round
than Vic., and that a race may be established of greater
value than Melb. Oup.
« * • *
At Gawler Jockey Club meeting, the other day,
“ a man who believes in the office ” discovered on the way
up that the meeting was being held on the sixth day of
the week, the sixth month of the year, in the year 1896.
He put £1 on No. 6 in each race (in a 10s. tote), and won
£27 2s. on the day. It will be seen that the divs. are
above bookmakers’ prices.
* * * *
Now that the big-timber season approacheth,
one can almost hear the inquiring yell, “Is that the
favorite down?” which Ikey Mo puts to his clerk at every
second hurdle.
» * « ♦
Anything over a medium investment at starting-
price sends Melb. “shop” runners into a mortal funk,
especially if it’s too late to wire to the course. Some
owners get in on the crowd occasionally, but one select
coterie bungled its commission sadly the other day,
and the fact that the horse had been backed in town was
known by everybody. Scratched !
» * ♦ *
A rather gaudy crowd lately wheeled up for a
puny M.L. selling-race, and the books, as usual, touted
round for little bets at tote odds. The owner of one par-
ticularly-rotten-looking prad was “ induced” to distribute
~A-mwof his flimsies. Only three or four backed the horse
on the god when he won from end to end, and paid
twixt £7O and £Bothe secret-laying crowd groaned
iu their agony. „
» * *
A much-champagned Sydney bookie
averred that he could tell some horse yarns that woufil
astonish even a journalist. A mild exaggeration, pro-
bably. But why doesn’t some literary Ikey Mo knock
out a book on turf varieties, cracks and crocks, mugs and
mules, certs and stiff? and come-to-lifers, and all the rest
of it? “The Romance of an Undertaker’s Nail” would
likely fill the title with success.
* » * «
A Bill is now before the N.Y. Legislature
making it penal to drop, place, or cause to be placed,
upon any cycle-path, street, side-walk or road, any sub-
stance which might injure or puncture any tyre used on a
bicycle. The reign of wheel! By the way, “he has
wheels in his head ” has long been the American equiva-
lent of “he is mad.”
* * * *
Bookie (at his first coursing-meet): “ I’ll lay
even money either of these ’ere two dogs.” Sport: “ How
can you lay evens against both, and make money? You’ll
go broke.” “ Why, hain’t I got the bloomin’ hare going
for me ? ”
* * * *
A Maoriland racecourse had a recent visita-
tion from myriads of flies, and the crowd spent over an
hour frantically waving its pockethandkerchiefs and
fishing ’em out of its beer. One literally-covered win-
ning jock, was found to be lib. overweight. But a hoof-
show that had no flies on it would be a very straight affair
indeed.
* * * *
What some owners of pony favorites do now is
to put up a jock, that has never ridden in his life. “ Ex-
planation accepted ” —but not by the public.
* * * *
Says Sydney Truth, which credits some of the
big bookmakers with favoring the introduction of the tote
as a means of squashing the small pony-tracks : —“ They
are bucking against their best interests in so doing. A
M.L. man put it tersely to them the other night in Tatter-
sail’s : ‘ You ride in cabs now, but if you get the tote you
will all have to walk; even tram-tickets will be denied
you.’ The M.L. man,” declares Truth, “is right all the
time.” Whatever is against the interest of Ikey Mo is in
the interest of the backer.
m * * *
Pastor Jefferis is credited with a desire to
organise an anti-totalisator party in S.A., but although
the “ books” may give him their moral and financial sup-
port, the public will not desert the tote, which always
pays out and never leaves its trousers on a racecourse-
fence in its hurry to avoid “ parting.”
* * * *
Thus said the preacher: “I know a lady who
bicycles every Sunday. Oh, my friends, what think you
that woman’s latter end will be ? ” “ As hard as a brick,”
yelled a voice from the back.
* * * *
A certain small Sydney terrier, with cocked ears
and a waggish aspect, can jump 6ft. 6in., according to his
sporting owner. Writer saw him reach sft. 9in. for a
weevily biscuit, and didn’t care to argue the question.
* * * *
The new game of cricket-billiards, concocted by
R. 0. Norman, of Melbourne, may come into fashion at
small tea-parties. An oval-shaped board, suggesting an
American billiard-table with the corners rounded off, and
a netting gutter substituted for cushions, serves as the
cricket-field. It is a single-wicket game, the wicket being
a board (that turns on' a pivot when struck) situated at
the “spot” end of the table. The bowler delivers a
small-sized billiard-ball from “baulk’’-line with a cue,
whilst the batsman, standing behind the wicket, defends
it with a mace. The batsman is required to keep within
popping-crease limits, and if he pushes the head of his
mace beyond the crease and misses the ball he has to con-
sider himself stumped. Also, if he knocks a fieldsman
down with his mace he goes sorrowfully back to the
apocryphal pavilion. But these ways of getting out are
more feminine than masculine. Ladies play the game. In
a general way the batsman is either clean-bowled or caught;
occasionally the ball glances off his mace into the wicket.
A catch means the overturning of a fieldsman by a ball
which the batsman has struck. Eleven devil’s-pool pins
impersonate the field, and the captain of the “ out” side
places them and shifts them according to his judgment of
the batsman’s play. The placing of the field is subject to
distance conditions, which give the batsman a reasonable
chance to slip or drive the ball between the pins. As a
-nile, the trickiest striker, up to now, has been “ caught
out " withtirtwenty strokes. A long innings is a rarity,
so the game may be said to move fast. Cricket-billiards,
regarded as a harmless form of amusement, suitably for
the domestic dining-table, is worth further consideration.
* * * *
Young Flack, the Melb. harrier who lately won
the Olympic mile-footrace at Athens, has, it appears, had
a right “ royal ” time in the capital city of degenerate
Greece. The King sent his carriage to convey the vic-
torious Australian back to the city, and the latter was
publicly honored by the Athenians with a gorgeousness
reminiscent of their Pagan-predecessors’ god-worship.
He appeared at theatres, churches, &c., with King George
and his family, and on his departure from Athens was
cheered by countless thousands end greeted at every
stopping-place by crowds of gaping Greeks.
» * * *
The establishment of a racing co. to run a big
stableful of first-ekss horses and make unlimited money
is advocated by someone at ’Ome, who points to the big
stakes landed by leading stables as evidence that there is
cash in the venture. The details read well on paper, but
the scheme is based on a winning assumption. Though
laughed at in many quarters, a Melbourne paper takes up
the theme in all seriousness, and advocates racing or
breeding co’s in Australia. The latter would be right
enough but for the trivial fact that breeding doesn’t pay,
anyway. What are studs returning annually now ? And
why was the famous Sylvia Park in M.L. broken up?
Racing co’s might pay divs., but calls would have to be
made much oftener. Motto : “ Straight racing.” But
what about the baleful influence of Ikey Mo, and the jocks
he rules ? And what a nice billet the manager would
have answering letter queries by the hundred every week
as to when the co’s horses would be on the job, or what
their chances were in the Woolloomooloo Handicap or
Rooty Tooty Oup!
Maoriland is thinking of kicking hard
against the local Press Association. This Associa-
tion, which includes practically all the existing
papers, supplies cable intelligence to members
only. No new paper is admitted without a
payment of <£soo cash; failing that it must
do without cable news, and is cheerfully told
to go and run a service of its own. As the average
new paper can’t part <£soo, and as very few papers
can live without foreign cables, there are practi-
cally no journals starting in Maoriland nowadays.
Every now and then an old one dies or amalga-
mates, and as its place isn’t filled the Maoriland
press steadily diminishes.
Parkesiana.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A friend called on Parkes in ’93, just after
another chip had sprung from the old block.
“Mr. ,” squeaked the gay parent of 78, “you
see hus hin that ’appy frame of mind which natur-
ally follows hupon the solution hof a difficult pro-
blem.” “Indeed, Sir Henry.” “Yes, we have
decided to name my youngest son Cobden.”
“ Cobden, Sir Henry ! But consider: when he
goes to school the boys will call him Cobby !
Cobby Parkes isn’t nice. Why not name him
after some American patriot—Washington, Lin-
coln, Garfield?” “Mr. ——, we ’ave considered
the matter from he very point of view, and we ’ave
decided to keep the three names you suggest for
the next three boys.”
* * * »
At a dinner given by Major Rennie, of the
Mutual Insurance Co. of New York, at the Aus-
tralia Hotel, Parkes was placed opposite editor
Curnow, of S.M. Herald. Oysters were served.
“ Very good oysters, Sir Henry,” said Curnow ;
“fine food; very strengthening, very stimulating.”
“ Mis-ter Curnow,” said Parkes, “ Hi ham a hold
man hof fourscore, and Hi don’t need these hadven-
titious haids.” And he added such a gloss to this
text that the editor blushed into his plate for the
rest of the dinner.
* * * *
One Saturday Parkes was going up to Faulcon-
bridge, and W. B. Piddington was a passenger by
the same train on his way to Mt. Piddington.
“Ha, Piddington, are you hoff up to the moun-
tains ? ” “ Yes, Sir Henry. I'm going to my little
place from Saturday to Monday-my selection,
you know; must fulfil the residence condi-
tions.” “Ho! and may Hi hask what yen
’ave hin that basket, Piddington?” “In this
basket, Sir Henry ? Oh, sandwiches.” Will you
let me see those sandwiches, Piddington ? ’ ver-
tainly, Sir Henry ! ” and Piddington opened the
basket. “Ha ! a bottle ! What is in that bottle,
Piddington?” “’Tis a bottle of hock, Sir Henry.
“’Ock ! Dear me ! Now I wonder have you a
corkscrew, Piddington?” “Yes; would you like
a glass, Sir Henry?” “Piddington, since you
press me, Hi would.” And while Piddington was
opening the hock, Parkes devoured the sandwiches.
“Ha!” holding the glass up, “ this looks good’ock !
Drinking it and taking the bottle, “this is good
’ock, Piddington!” And Parkes the
hock —the sandwiches were already gone. “But
Hi perceive you ’ave another bottle, Piddington.
May I hask what is hin that bottle, Pidding-
ton? ” “Claret, Sir Henry.” “Well, Pidding-
ton, hif there his one wine Hi prefer to
hanother, that wine is claret.” And the claret
followed the hock. “ But what have you in that
parcel, Piddington?” “Oh, a little bit of cake,
Sir Henry.” “ Cake ? Dear me ! ” And the cake
followed the sandwiches. “ Piddington,” said the
old man, getting out of the train at Faulconbridge,
“Hi thank you for your ’ospitality. Hi could
wish that we travelled together hoftener, Pidding-
ton. Oood-bye, Piddington! ”
* * * *
Blank, of Lithgow, was one of those who took
a <£s ticket in the famous Faulconbridge Art
Union, one of Parkes’s neatest schemes for raising
the wind. Some time after, Blank fell on evil days,
was declared insolvent, and, coming across the
ticket, he thought he would look Parkes up
and get his cash returned. So he called
on the old man at the Treasury. “ Good
morning, Sir Henry. I’ve called to see you .
“ You have the hadvantage of me, sir ; you have
not told me your name.” “ Oh, beg pardon, Sir
Henry ; thought you’d remember me ; my name’s
Blank. I’ve called .” “You have not told
me your haddress, sir.” “Oh, beg pardon, I’m
sure ; my present address is 241 Dash-street, Red-
fern. I took a ticket in your art-unicn, Sir Henry,
two years ago, and I’ve had great losses—in fact,
I’m without a penny in the world ; and as I hear
the art-union isn’t to be drawn for some time, Sir
Henry, I’ve brought the ticket, and I should be
glad “ Mis-ter Blank, are you haware that
by a recent decision hof the Hattorney-General
hart-unions are declared hentirely hillegal ? Hi
ham sure you will see the imprudence of hengagmg
me to hassist you in hany hillegal transaction.
Good-morning !”


In calling their 20s. Blanket their “ sove-
reign Blanket,” Hordern Brothers, Pitt-street,
have made no “misnomer.” This sterling value
is. much appreciated, and country residents can
receive same per parcels post at the same price—
one sovereign. Address letters : Hordern
Brothers, Direct Importers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only) Sydney.*
TWO WONDERFUL INVENTIONS I
Hannam’s Patent
WATER HEATER.
: r
A Hot Batli
for a Handful
of Chips.
Price, £2.
Prices on application for
Hannam’s Patent Water-Heater
using Gas.
Tbc (SLOW LAtyP.
mi
i, ''i
Price, Is. 6d.
Post Free to
any part of
Australia,
2s.
The Cheapest Kerosene Light in
the World!
Burns 200 hours for One Penny!
No Smoke! No Smell! No Danger!
Agcots for tbe PASTEUR SERNI FILTER.
HANNAM & CO., 148 Pitt-st., Sydney.
(Agents \
Wanted, I
In the Day of Judgment?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He knew he was dying. He read it in his
daughter’b tear-blurred face, in the silent figure of
the doctor, standing motionless by the window,
waiting. He felt its numbness creeping upwards
from his feit. Oh, the peace df death’s stillness
after years df life’s agdiiy ! Oh, td sleep* and
and sleep, artd sleep, with nd remembrance, with
hd hauntirtg remorse for a deadly crime, with nd
Sickening terror of a day when it should be found
out. Was there a moment when he had not
thought of that day, of the cold grip of the hand-
cuffs, of his daughter’s moan over her blasted life ?
And—oh, Cod! —had he not felt the rope round
his throat a thousand times, and wakened with a
shriek of terror with the drops of agony upon his
forehead ? Death—oblivion— was all he had prayed
for, and now death was come. Death, yes; but
afterwards ?
» * » *
A sweet, tender face was before him, a sad,
patient face beneath a widow’s cap. He saw her
with her hands on the piano, with the firelight
fl ashing on her hair, on the polished wood, and in
the eyes of the small, round-faced boy at her side.
It must have been Sunday evening, for she sang
a hymn, the piping, childish treble mingling with
her low voice. It was long, long ago, but he re-
me inhered it all. ‘ ‘ Repent / confess ! thou shalt ”
an 1 suddenly, at the remembrance of some recent
boyish crime, the shrill voice had broken into a
Sob. “ What is it, little sott? What’s wrong with
mother’s boy ? ”
If she would beat him, he had reasoned to him-
self, he would not mind, but she would not do
that. She would be very sorry, perhaps she
would cry, and so he would never tell her. The
influences of early training and the traditions of
childhood gained their authority over the man
o.ice more. As sharply now, as in those days of
unreasoning faith, the anguish of an unrelieved
conscience ptrmeated him.
* * * *
How hot it was, how breathless and over-
powering ! —only a sheet of brown paper to-night
between us and ; he chuckled feebly at the
familiar phrase, then fell to shuddering. Only a
sheet of paper—good God ! there was nothing,
nothing between him and that awful yawning
chasm. The flames were flinging up their long
fiery arms to drag him down. He was lost, lost;
Oh, Cod, have mercy; he Would confess before it
Was too late. His dry lips moved, and his face
twitched with agony.
“ Something is troubling him,” whispered the
doctor ; “ try to soothe him ; ” and his daughter
bent over him. •
‘ ‘ What is it, dear father ? Do you want to
speak to me?”
“ If we confess our sin— if, if— no salvation else,
nothing but outer darkness and gnashing of
teeth” But no words would come, for all his
struggles. The doctor raised the sick man’s head
and put a cordial to his lips.
“ Dear, dear father,’ sobbed the girl, “ speak to
me. What is it, father ? ”
His brain was suddenly cleared. Yes, confession
would drive away the demon horror that possessed
him, and give him peace ; but what would it do
for his pure young daughter ? In the moment of
clear vision he saw her crushed under the burden
of another’s guilt, shunned by all, heart-broken.
His lips ceased to struggle for speech, He would
lose his soul, but he would not hurt hers. The
darkness was closing round him. He was losing
the light for ever. The surging of many waters
came over his head, and the light went out.
* * * *
And. who shall say that there was not joy
among the angels over the sinner who left his sin
Unconfessed ?
Q.
MAMOOSE.
Dear Bulletin, —It has been pointed out
to me that, in a yarn of mine printed in a
recent Bulletin, I make a drunken police-
magistrate “ raise his head on one elbow ” ! . . .
“ Well ? ” “ Why, he couldn’t do it! ” “ Couldn’t
he ? That’s all you know. It was in the old days,
in the bad old North, when a police-magistrate,
especially a drunken police-magistrate, could do
anything ! Why, I’ve seen a drunken magistrate
in the old days picturesquely raise h : s tivo heads
on one elbow.”—Yours, The Dipsomaniac.
London Evening News, a paper run by
the Harmsworths—who also own Answers— is
about the most shameless stealer of Bulletin
matter on the face of this earth. It never ack-
nowledges anything, and it grabs on a large, com-
prehensive scale everything that suits its purpose.
In its issue Of April 25, for example, it reprinted
under a new title Henry Fletcher’s story “Hjs
Lucky Day,” which was printed in The Bulletin
of 7th March, and paid for by this journal, and it
rldt only left out the writer’s riame biit put the
steal under the heading “ Our Short Story.” Out
short story, be it observed : Harrrisworth’s short
story, in fact—not Harmsworth’s Comprehensive
Steal. Likewise, these “ enterprising ” half-
penny pirates stole S. A. Mills’s graphic Bulletin
story, “160 in the Shade,” and republished it
under another title as original.
Under a column headed “ Original (?)
Correspondence,” a London newspaper called
Colonial Enterprise, of March 26, has an in-
stalment of a story of Louis Becke’s, published in
Sydney Sunday Times, and entitled “The Great
Crushing at Mount Sugar Bag.” .“‘Colonial’
Enterprise ” is good. No acknowledgment of
either author or paper is given by. this friendly
thief.
Here is a quotation from “ The Bird of
Paradise,” a 500 pp. novel, just published, by Dr.
Dutton, of Maoriland (erstwhile of Melbourne).
This dreadful language purports to describe a
Storm, in which the repulsive heroine of the story
Is despatched
It was doomsday for Marvel ! The lightning danced
and gleamed in the heavens like the quadrillion brandish-
ing halberdiers of a mailed ethereal army in the im-
memorial war between inanimate Nature and man, with
death amidst all its beauty ; now with the seinti lating
glare of colossal diamonds, now changing into Titanic
spears and broad-arrows of blue and obvoluting oriflammes
and long tridents of serpentine-green, and now flaring
with the shimmering sheen of scutiform rotary-polished
silver and the incandescent glow of laminiferous sheets
and braziers of diaphanous burnished majolica in the
treasure-house of Olympus. The heavens opened, ani
the four winds were let loose all together. Then came
terrene, seismic disturbances, and a sulphurous smell as a
zig-zagging biuelight blazed in the zenith, quickly flicker-
ing down the matchlock iron stanchion of the infundibuli-
form gargoyle above the balcony ; the window rattled,
and Marvel, standing in such imminent proximity to an
infuriated universe, was terrified !—first staggering, then
knocked down by the lightning, she lay, with a charred
arm, prone, torpescent, and unconscious on the floor.
“John.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Among the recently reduced-m-screw
N S-W. Public Service is a patriarchal messenger
who", in his time, has beeri as good, if not better
than a father td the numerous Ministers who held
sway under him. His great speciality has been
the cutting short of long-winded deputations and
blocking the approach of the over-gaseous. ills
resourcefulness in trickery amounted to positive
genius ; but on at least one occasion he was toiled.
A deputation of faddy gabsters, niale and female,
called by appointment; but the Minister-occu-
pied in listening to the “good stories brought
from Victoria by a friend —was unable to see them
at the precise time. In fact, he had forgotten all
about them, and “John ” had taken upon himself
to invent excuse after excuse for his chief s in-
attention. At last, as one after another of the
Parliamentarians who were to do the intro-
duction business slipped away, the deputa-
tion became rampant. “Is the Minister really
in his room?” inquired a lady. “And does
he know that we are here?” “Madame,
rejoined “John,” with much deference, the
Minister is in his room, and does know you are
here.” “ May we venture to ask on what special
business he is engaged ? ” asked the lady, with
a Visage that was authority itself. “ J°hti
asserted that it was a matter of life and death
the Minister was carefully considering the notes
in the case of a prisoner lying under sentence of
death. Just then,, the Minister’s door was thrown
open, and worse—held opeii by the retiring Visitor,
as he. paused to emphasise the point of his last
Rabelaisian, not to say Parkesian story, and, efe
“John” could close the door, the Ministers
giggling confirmed the jest, and “John ” stood
honfounded. The indignant deputationists then
took the matter of entree ihto their Own hands,
and found the Minister recumbent on two chairs,
coatless and bootless, and in the abandort of hearty
laughter. How the deputation got through
“John’’did not stop to see. He left word with
his assistant that he was ill, and retired to his
snug housekeeping quarters, a defeated and dis-
graced man. ‘‘ I leaned on ‘ John ’ with all the
trustfulness of my nature,” said the Minister,
“ but he proved a broken reed.”
One high official of “ John’s ” department was
as partial to the messenger as he was to an after-
noon nap. It was “ John’s” special duty to arouse
that official about 3.30, so that he might, by the
exercise of great diligence, get his coat on, his
hair brushed, and his hands washed by the time
the clock struck four. On one occasion “John,”
absent on a message for the Minister, could not
return to the office till after 4, and as it never en-
tered his head that a public servant of such stand-
ing as Mr. Jobkins should so violate official
tradition as to stay after 4, he accordingly did not
look into his superior’s room. Mr. Jobkins was
thus left in the sleep of the easy-worked and heavy-
lunching till the chill of dusk aroused him. Making
his way to the messenger’s quarters, he reproached
him for his remissness. “Sir,” said “John,” “I
did not think, sir, that one of your name and posi-
tion, sir, could object, sir, to spend an hour longer
than usual in the service of your country.” Where-
upon the high official retired rebuked.
One of “John’s” favorites, and at the same
time his particular pest among the juniors of his
branch, was a close connection of a one - time
Minister —a youth who would not have presumed
1.• v'., thp chief bad there been
uponh ;vl r- but as he was simply a “ fifth
wheel" he chiefly spent his time in the service of
wheel, ne t . tlicks f or the destruction
of mind. Some departmental
tittle-tattle had found access to a Sunday paper,
and the mischief-making junior persisted m accus-
in ■■ “ John ”of bt ing the author. 1 1 nder the im-
putation “ John ” was ira :e, and particularly at
the palpable unfairness of the article, in that it
had referred to him as being more ill the confidence
of the Minister than the under-secretary. As
if,” affirmed “John,” “I didn’t know more than
the under-secretary ! ” _
The chap to slave the Country — Reid. --
Sydney Trutß. ,
Insanitary Westralia. Ihe Registrar-
General’s death-roll divulges that, irt Perth, 163
out of 503 deaths for the first quarter of ’96 were
from typhoid ! Fifty-three per cent, of deaths
from an easily pieventible disease due to filth .
He was a Northern locomotive-inspector,
and his name was a word of terror. At a certain
station on the Central Line he was examining an
engine in his customary microscopical style. At
last he discovered a small spot of rust on the
crank-shaft and proceeded to rate the hapless
engine-cleaner therefore. Finally the latter fired
up: “Well, you see—l only cleaned the blamed
thing with the naked eye—not with a forty-foot
telescope.”
An interesting little girl writes from Mel-
bourne
Deaf Bulletin I ,—l am only a little girl, but Bob (my
brother, you know) says “ there are ho flies on me, and
that I am “ funnier than a bit of string,” and I want you
to open an “Aunt Jane” page in your paper like our
Weekley Times-, so that little girls can write little letters.
Well, you must know that pa took me to see the play,
and we went in the tram from St. Kilda, and old Mr.
If.tikes was on the dummy, and pa was talking to him for
a long time, and at last he said “ By gad, Raikes, old man,
that is a prettv nurse-girl your wife has got now, and
looks so respectable, too; I am certain She is a good
«drl”; and old Mr. Raikes gave such a big sigh,
and said “ Yes, Pease, old chap, I Rtfl ofvctid she is,
arid then pa looked at Mr. Raikes sideways, so funny,
and said, quite low, “ The Old rip ! ” hut I could not see
anv hole in Mr. Raikes’s Coat, though I looked ever so
close. And then, when he got to the theatre, Mr. Raikes
sat near Mrs. Goflighty, and there was such a smell of
cloves, and I think Mrs. Goflighty must have been eating
some, for I heard Pa say to another gentleman that the
conversation was prettv spicey even for her. And I heard
old Mrs. Malone talking to Mrs. O’Shea just behind me,
and she said in such a funny voice—for she comes from
Ireland, you know', and Mrs. O’Shea too—“ Yes indeed,
Mrs. O’Shea, when my man was took had two years ago
come Candlemas,.ai d wasn’t able to keep anything on the
stomach of him but hot fermentations, the doctor elevated
his pains (for sure ’tw'as windy colic he had, had cess to it)
w’ith subterraneous interjections of cocoa;” and Mrs.
O’Shea said, “God be good to us, sure my husband’s wife-
died of that same, six years ago come Palm Sunday,
which is three months after he married me ; but sure the
doctor called it poisoning, for I saw him put it in h r
death sen tance, and he wrote it ‘ All collie poisoning
through gin,’ so he did,” and that’s all I can think of now,
so good-bye from Yours truly, Lotta Green-Pease (a little
over 7 years old).


AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
Purifies, Vitalizes, Enriches the Blood; Gives
New Life, Health and Vigour.
mmmwmm?
Mr. Allred C. Jolliffe, of Granville, So. Australia, whose portrait
give above, writes:
a I used Ayer s Sarsaparilla m England for years before coming to
Australia. At times I was much troubled with boils and other eruptions
of the skin, caused, the doctors told me, by the running down of mv
system and general debility. The only medicine that has ever done me
lasting good is Ayer s Sarsaparilla, which has always cured me—purifvin!?
my blood, and giving me new life and health and vigour.”
The wonderful success of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in purifying the blood and
restoring health and strength to systems enfeebled by disease, or the enervat-
ing effect of a warm climate, has led to the placing on the market of other
preparations called Sarsaparilla. Remember that imitation is the sincerest
form of flattery, and be sure that you get AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
which has stood the test of time, has won the highest awards at the world’s
great expositions, and has been a blessing to the people of Australia, and
all civilized countries, for more than a generation. No other medicine operates
so effectually in removing general debility, languor, and all outward symp-
toms of the grave mischief caused by disordered nerves and impure blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Known all Over the World for Its Excellence.
AYER’S PILLS, Sugar Coated—Mild but Effective.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
f HAVE YOU A COLD?
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough ,
r_ .., '* for a Cold.’
fry it for Whooping-Cough
»»»»!irs &£■ tb ° bom - 1 “ h ”
w. s. HOLLINGWOHTH, Cliflon Street, Manchester.
fivrinidges
vjjhnglonic.
•-S.'. o n'd"x,a,r,',S“„: *>« --»
«Jthout a bottle of it in the house.” y f a 2 ain . and will not be
JOHN WALKER, O.Q. Station, Killybsgs, 00. Donegal.
Try jt for Consumption.
fc Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d
and lie., by all Chemists and Patent ”
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
fiOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING 00„ 31 KING STREET, 3YDNHY.
Worth a Guinea a Box
has passed into a proverb
expressive of universal approval
concerning a medicine of rare value,
This Notable Verdict,
justified by a sale of 6,000,000 boxes yearly
must secure the confidence of sufferers
in all climes and countries,
and
ever-widening fame
of
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Of
ever-widening fame
and
in all climes and countries
must secure the confidence of sufferers,
1 justified by a sale of 6,000,000 boxes yearly]
This Notable Verdict
concerning a medicine of rare value,
expressive of universal approval,
has passed into a proverbs-
Worth a Guinea a Box. 1
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HATMAEKET, SIDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND —
Tobacconists’ Fancy Ooods.
CUTLERY, BRUSH WARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
OOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS & CIGABS:
g™ ROSE, CAN’T BE BEAT, THREE
WILLIAMS ULLY ’ A 1 CUKLS ’ LEGER > TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
CIGARS,
viz.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA PAROLA, EL MUNDO
ALPINA^HaMLA 11 *? T & c FE (P * De Mendoza )> SANTIAGO, HANSA,
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons Furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-payment
A G ;° ods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade sup-
plied cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony. P
MICKBTMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
ef
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS
•“""T - l no -,) Vhy waste time - mone y and health with wonderful “cure-alls,”
specific*, etc., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a complete cure for Nervousness and Panins' Manly viiror in
yoirng and old men. The Homcepathic Treatment cures in four weeks. All letters sent
reM ’ Pr » mviNG CO., c/r Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney


DC YOU USE
IF SO
you OU&HT
o purchase one of Wells’
Waste-Oil Filters,
you will then only have
. TO BUY .
IN ANY
Oil occasionally, as tlie Dirty
QUANTITY? J
Oil can be used over again.
Therefore, go to Wimble’s, 87 Clarence-st.
. a FILTER .
that yill save its own cost in six months.
"TTCHARM'NG SCENT.”
H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
NBo v s
WHITE ROSE.
“The Sweetest of Sweet Odours.”
Delightfully and delicately fragrant.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
ATKINSON S ONLY GENUINE
Perfume, Toilet Powder, Soap, Tooth Powder,
Sachets, & all other specialities with this
“ charming ” odour, of all Dealers through-
out the World & of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St.,London.
66
rjTALKS of thjj CONVICT SYSTEM.”
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS CU
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
03 York SYDNBY.I
Collins
« THE BLOCK,”
Street, M;y!XjBOXTIt3XrE.
CYCLING! CYCLING! CYCLING!
Outside Tyre Covers
] nternal Tubes
Non-slipping Bands
Valves
Valve Tul
Solution
Pedal Rubbers
Cork A Rubber Handles
Repairing Rubber Sheet
CUSHION and SOLID TYRES.
CYCLE CAPES.
LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK. CALL or WRITE FOR PRICE-LIST.
The India Rubber, Gutta Percha
& Telegraph Works Co. Ltd.
Sydney Branch : 283 GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter-street).
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OP BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OP BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, dame, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
DEPOTS (Refreshment) — 92 King
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Ageing jj PATESON, MANAGER.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY, LIMITED
m
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING ENGINEERS
—AND—
(acoeral MercbaQtS-
patentees of
Dodge Rockbreaker.
Challenge Ore Feeder.
Huntington Mill (impd.)
Frue Tanner.
Ropp Straight-line Furnace, etc.
Catalogues on Application .
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class ol Work. Agents Everywhere.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
sd
“ DAG-OIXTET ” ChLa,m.pa,gn.e. EXTRA SUP. DRY.
MA.H.KS & CO’S Sherries. IN BULK and CASE.
“ MARIPOSA. ” Cigars. In 50 and 100 BOXES.
The above can now be had from the SOLE AGENTS—
SCOTT, SIBBALD & CO.,
20 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
NOW IS YOUR CHANCE!
BUY
■FRAGRANT AROMA.
EXQUISITE FLAVOR.
RELIA BLE QUA LITY.
GOOD CONDITION.
Mallo Cigars—4 for Is.
A credit to the Smoker, equal to any 6d. Havana Cigar, and a pleasure to his friends.
Wines, Spirits & Beers.
India, China and Csyion Teas (new shipments arriving monthly).
Th. 6 Safest, Most Heliahle and Cheapest House in Sydney
UNTO Spurious or Adulterated Goods Offered!
PLEASE SEND EOR PRICE LISTS
SELECT REERESHMENT ROOMS AD.TOINING
P. P. Larkin,
Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant
778, 780, 782 & 784 George-street,
HAYMARKET SYDNEY.
