

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Louis Koederer’s Champagne.
CADBURY'S
A Stimulating*, Sustaining* Cup.
Made Instantly.
A
PARSONS’ Flaked Oatmeal
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW amp SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FRY’S MALTED
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of
COCOA.
MALT.
A
■o.;,o v
<RAc{aJocK>
c/2o.
&
v
,v O <TV
U
R. A. HERVEY. Agent. 28 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
AIL STOREKEEPERS
IN N. S.W. 9t QUEENSLAND.
ROBERTS’
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
4s and 2s per bottle.
Brown’s Four-Crown Whisky, 3/9
Gilbey’s Silverstream Schnapps,
4s and 2s
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
• Whisky, 3/9
Very Superior old Port Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
«SSs«&
Brfare visiting the City write to the Manager for
Cara e; Tariff, (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
[▼Y
TfouOKiM
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
lOd., lid., la-
Large Stocks of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
Clarence
TANNEKS,
Street (Only), SYDNEY.
The T Boot Coy.
Largest and Best Shoe Store in Australia.
©
IMMENSE VARIETY TO SELECT FROM.
Prices Below every Competitor.
Tboot company,
386 Geor&e-Bt., sytlney.
TONIC
(REGISTERED).
THE
Great Health Restorer.
RECOMMENDED BY THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION.
SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Sold Everywhere.
THE
3/4 to
60 B.H.F.
Recommended and need by nearly all Goverinnent.. Be.t and Cheapest IMIUe •*> ser<«e,ie, y-lai.it per
make, oogpy. «™W. for S&33&&' « ■*» ** P» « 18 “»• '*">» *»* «** °^T
hour per U.P. need. A„k for result, and real, non A „ stralaßla .... SO JPltt Street, SYDNEY.
Office for
Doctors
Recommend GILBEY’S DRY GIN. Tucker & Co., Agents, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 17.-!—No. fcs3B J
[Saturday, March 7, 1896.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


A Golden Shanty,
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and
Yerse, by Bulletin Writers.
Paper covers ; 171 pp. ; posted, Is. 3d.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Limited.
Publishers’ Notice.
Three New and Attractive Publications:
Our Celebrities. 1/- ; posted, i»
25 Splendid Photos, of Australian Favorites.
Australian Boys & Girls. 1 /©; posted, 1/1©
An Illustrated Annual of T„\.s by Louis Benko
E. iavenc, Ethel Turner, etc. Becke,
Australian Music Portfolio, No. 1.
Containing New and Old Favorite SongVand Dance'l
A marvellous shillingsworth.”-T.iE Bulletin
GORDON & GOTCH, and all Booksellers.
The Last of Six:
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS
By Ernest Favenc.
I aper covers; 141 pp. ; posted, Is. 3d.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Limited.
Literary Notes .
Of Translation.
The suggestion that Bulletin readers
should make English versions of a touching
little poem by Maeterlinck lias not met a
quite satisfactory response. Of the dozen or
so copies sent in—some by hands which
should be really competent—hardly one
translates the French accurately, and several
have had to wander far from the pathetic
original in search of rhyme and expression.
Some gave a fair paraphrase of the spirit of
the verse—which is not translation. Some
gave a fair rendering of the letter—which is
not translation. None was able so to mingle
letter and spirit as, allowing for the genius
of the languages, to give the exact force of
the original.
* * * *
Yet the original is not unapt for transla-
tion. Its key-note is simplicity—a simplicity
of which we have the equivalent in many an
old ballad. A verse like—
O where have you been, my long, long love,
This long seven years and inair?
O I m come to seek my former vows
Ye granted me before.
—gets very near to the rhythm and tone of
“Et s’il revenait.” Only the flavour of
modernity is lacking, for Maeterlinck, how-
ever unaffected his art, cannot throw off the
garment of the centuries. But translators
wear this too.
* * * *
The best version received comes from
“Austin South,” and is here printed with
the original :
ET STL REVENAIT.
Efc s’il revenait un jour
Que faut-il lui dire?
—Dites-lui qu’on l’attendib
Jusqu’a s’en mourir. . .
Et s’il demaude oh vous 6tes
Que faut-il repondre?
—Donnez-lui mon anneau d’or
Sans rien lui repondre. . .
Et s’il m’interroge encore
Sans me reconnnltre?
—Parlez-lui emmun line soeur
II souffre peut etre. . .
Et s’il vent savoir pourquoi
La salle est deserte?
Mon rez-lni la laiiipe eteinte
Et la porte ouverte. . .
Et s’il m’interroge alors
Sur la derniere heure?
Dites-lui que j'ai souri
De peur qu’il ne pleure.
This can only be considered a fair attempt.
The note is unforced, and the spirit is well
caught ; but the thought 'is not accurately
given, and the chanson-music of the original
might be more nearly reached. “Till
pale Death remembered the life that
Love forgot” is a pretty phrase, but it is
not the phrase of the original, and is doubt-
fully as strong. “He was looked and
longed for till death came of longing ” .seems
more natural, and it is what Maeterlinck
meant. (By-the-by, with the exception of
“L.M.” and doubtfully of “ R.K.D.,” every
translator slurred the significant en, and
missed the meaning of these two lines.)
“Pale Death” is rather trite; and the “I
waited ” is too explicit—another well-patro-
nised gulf. The original is intentionally
vague : if the enquirer learns that she is dead
in the first stanza the remainder is all
anti-climax. (“Till my dying day” is a
favorite fourth line, and in the fifth the
intelligent stranger is made to ask where
the dead one is.) Passing some verbal
cavils, the unwarranted “too,” and the
expletives in the fourth verse, “Austin
South ” circumvents rather neatly, a miscon-
struction of the last two lines, over which
everybody else but “ R.K.D.” (and possibly
“L.M. ’) tumbled gallantly. The stranger
isn’t to be told that “she smiled lest he
should weep ” —which, in elegant vernacular,
“give - the game away ;” but, lest he should
weep, lie is to be told she smiled. The error
is tempting, certainly; but translators should
have strength to resist temptation.
* * * *
For the rest, tolerable versions come from
R.K.D. (hardly close enough, and alternate
weak ending would have helped melody) ;
L.M. (poetic, and rivalling preferred version,
but metre xxot so good equivalent, and expres-
sions like “apace,” “darkened face,” seem
strained) ; Vie Manquee (sympathetic, rather
stiff): L.B. .(rhythmic, but mistranslated, and
“ lest that,” “ dead lamp,” not permissible);
L. L. mistranslated; “ without rememb-
rance,' and “late ” won’t do) ; B.G. (sympa-
thetic, rhythmic, some stiffness). Bad ver
sions come from J. S, ; T. C. : R. H. ; E. S.
Mach. ; W. M.
* * * »
The art of translation is to reproduce th
precise impression left bythe author—no mar
and no less. As nearly as possible a jus
equivalent should be found for (in order o:
importance) his thought, his tone or colo
or atmosphere, and his mode of expres
sion. A translator-genius like Francis Ma
hony can do this all but completely, work
ing with modern languages ; but in
the turning of ancient to modem, or vie
versa, absolute perfection is visibly unattainec
by the ablest. There will always be room for
the play of idiosyncrasy in debate whether
translator should put author before reader or
reader before author, when to harmonise
their claims proves impossible ; whether, foi
example, Conington’s “iEneid ” is better than
Dryden’s, or whether Fitzgerald’s liberties
with Omar would, on the whole, please or
displease that illustrious tentmaker. Yet
the end is clear, whatever difference there
may be as to comparative value or justice
of means. And people with a little know-
ledge, a little alertness, a little scope, and
little literary knack, may get from transla-
tion an intellectual pleasure which stimulates
without exhausting.
* * * *
It is with a full comprehension of the in-
discretion involved that a rather wooden
application of this commentary is permittee
to follow :
IF HE COME BACK
If some day he come back
How then speak of you ?
—Tell him he was hoped for
Till deferred hope slew.
If he ask Where stay you
What should I reply?
—Give him my gold ring, and
Give it silently.
Yet—he may not know me—
If he question more?
—As a sister soothe him
Lest his heart be sore.
If he seek to learn why
Desolate the hall ?
—Show the lamp extinguished,
Door thrown open all.
And if then he question
llow you fell asleep ?
—Say I parted smiling :
Say this, lest he weep.
The facts in the case of Fisher Unwin—
subject to that publisher’s correction. The
literary and artistic contents of The Bulletin
are covered by copyright in Britain and Aus-
tralia, and where the International Copyrights
Act applies. This copyright is habitually
waived in favor of contributors, on condition
that republication shall be accompanied
with an acknowledgment of original publica-
tion in The Bulletin. There was such a
waiver in the case of Louis Becke’s stories,
and such a condition. In his first book,
“ By Reef and Palm,” a collection of Bulle-
tin stories published by Fisher Unwin, the
condition was complied with. In his second
book, also a collection of short stories, many
of them from The Bulletin, soon to be pub-
lished by Fisher Unwin, the condition (so
The Bulletin is informed) is not complied
with. More—according to the statement
of the editor of the Sketch, he has been
led fo publish without acknowledgment
several of these Bulletin stories, in the
belief that they had never previously
appeared. Probably the editor of the
English Illustrated Magazine, who has
also published some of Becke’s stories
previously printed in Australia, and other
editors, have been in similar ignorance.
The fact, therefore, of previous publication,
in The Bulletin and elsewhere, of Becke’s
stories, seems to have been suppressed (not
by Becke) for the sake of making an extra
profit on the forthcoming volume ; since the
editor of the Sketch writes that he would
not have printed the stories had he been
aware of their previous Bulletin publica-
tion, and probably other editors would
take the same course. Again, Becke
and Walter Jeffery, of Sydney Town
and Country Journal, collaborated in a
long story—“A First Fleet Family’’—sold
to Fisher Unwin as a joint production. This
story has been permitted to appear in the
Illustrated London News as “by Louis
Becke ” (only), without Becke’s knowledge
or consent. Apparently, therefore, the name
of Jeffery, as a comparatively unknown man,
has been suppressed in the idea that it would
be disadvantageous to the sale or appreciation
of the story. Who suppressed it ? Fisher
Unwin ? What does the editor of the
Illustrated London N ews say ?
“ The History of Mankind,” by F. Ratzel,
is being published by Macmillan in monthly
parts. It is well illustrated, but the treat-
ment seems heavy, and the part-purchase
system is little appreciated in Australia.
Fergus Hume’s “Expedition of Captain
Flick ” (Macmillan) is a crudish copy of the
new models in adventurous romance.
THE POET AND THE ANARCHISTS.
I sought the sweetest singer of our day,
Our Chaucer with his fair and golden words,
And tales of old Greek gods, and Vikings brave
(Oh ! City of wild contrasts, meetings strange !)
I found him in a mean, ill-lighted room,
Perched on a platform, dressed in roughest serge,
Prating of Art to alien Anarchists !
Beside him sat a lank and weary girl
Strumming the Marseillaise; whilst noisome lads
Sold broadsheets of Chicago murderers !
In front sat women, frowsy, foul, and loud,
Who mocked at kings, with angry ruffled brows,
And clenched t.heir fists and cursed ; and one
Unwound her swathing neck-wrap like a snake,
Then damned the Queen, and spat upon the floor.
The Poet from his written page, prosed on ;
And when he spoke of Art, a silence fell,
Broken by rustling broad-sheets, but whene’er
He jibed at lords, or dubbed the bourgeois thieves,
The building shook with yells and stamping feet.
Nowhere else does Mr. Martin reach this
pitch of intensity. Here is ore from his
more characteristic vein :—-
WHEN A MAN’S SINGLE.
I ask but little from the Gods—
Good health and friends to cheer;
And, just as one of Fortune’s nods,
Three hundred pounds a year !
I’d let the Politician rave,
The Theologian fight;
I’d let the Sexton dig a “grave
And bury both to-night.
I’d rather sing the Poet's song
Than do the Hero’s deeds,
And gaily go through life along,
Unmindful of the creeds.
And many a pleasant hour I’ll pass
With her so sweet and chaste—
My charming little winsome lass,
My arm about her waist.
And when my time at last has come,
And fled is all my mirth,
Take me as one who seeks his Home,
And lay me i’ the earth.
Not very new or strong, maybe ; but un-
forced and readable.
Phil May gives the volume a clever frontis-
piece, and Hume Nisbet contributes illus-
trations which are better than his stories.
A. B. Walkley contributes to Cosmo polls
some competent criticism on current English
drama :
The Bible episode in “The Notorious Mrs.
Ebbsmith ” is not only not an inevitable, it is not
even a plausible, sequel to the first two acts ; the
very name of “episode” which my pen spon-
taneously found for it is its condemnation. The
incident is not in causal relationship with the rest
of the play ; Agnes’s moral struggle, the crisis
through which she is passing, lies far away from
formal religion. Ibsen, I make no doubt, is partly
to blame. The stove into which Agnes throws
the Bible is the stove into which Hedda threw
Lovborg’s manuscript; but there is this vast
difference, that Hedda’s act is consistent with her
character, an outward and visible sign of her soul
state, while Agnes’s is precisely the reverse. Mr.
Pinero has simply reproduced a stage effect the
externals of the thing, and in doing so has de-
parted utterly from the spirit of his model If
the burning of the Bible is false enough, what is
its rescue? Well, I cannot resist the uncomfort-
able suspicion that Mr. Pinero has here not been
thinking of his play at all, but of his public.
His rescued Bible I feel is a sop to that fetish-
worship of ‘ the book I mean the material,
tangible thing of paper, print, and leather—which
still survives in certain classes of our community.
Now that a man of Mr. Pinero’s calibre should
spoil the crisis of his play in order to make a con-
cession to Ciapham is, indeed, something which
gives us furiously to think.” And this is not
ail. lirom one British fetish we are hurried to
another. Ihe Church intervenes not as the
Church, not as a spiritual comforter, but as an
wlnctl confers “respectability.” In
Ihe Benefit of the Doubt” we have the same
conclusion, though there it is even more flagrantly
inadequate and impertinent. How ludicrous is
the disproportion between the fierce soul-struggles
of the unhappy people in this play, and the short
cut to social salvation provided by a bishop with
a house in town for the season !
FROM A FAR COUNTRY.
What shall I say if he, some day returning 1 ,
Shall seek thee, knowing not?
Tell him I waited—till pale Death remembered
The life that Love forgot.
If he should ask to know thy place of dwelling,
What shall my answer be?
Give him the ring of gold from off my finger,
Give it him—silently !
But if, as with a stranger, he still questions,
Say what then shall I do?
Speak to him very gently, as a sister,
Perchance he suffers, too !
And if he ask why silent and deserted
The halls so bright before?
Answer no word, but show the lamp extin-
guished,
The widely-opened door.
And lest, perchance, he ask of that last hour—
What message must I keep ?
Smile in his face, and say I parted smiling 1
Yes, smile—lest he should weep !
AUSTIN SOUTH.
A. P. Martin’s Verses.
Australians’ knowledge of Arthur Patch
ett Martin consists mostly of an impressioi
that sometime m the dim past he was f
pleasant-natured Melb. telegraph-officia
with a fair literary knack ; that he went to
London and turned his literary knack anc
his knowledge of Australia to account; tha:
he wrote the life of Robert Lowe ; and t-hai
now he occupies an easy chair and slippers
in the ranks of London dilettanti. Mr.
Martin’s book of collected verses sup-
plies opportunity for exact admeasure-
ment of a talent which the new gener-
ation has taken largely on trust. It
proves to be a thin, not unpleasing talent —
an agreeable vin ordinaire rather than a
piquant sherry, a substantial burgundy, or a
sparkling champagne. The Australian verses
—presumably earlier—are decidedly weak ;
the London lines—apparently later—are a
good deal better : a light, occasional verse
deficient in wit and poignancy, but with suffi-
cient fluency and sentiment to be readable.
Some lines have a strong flavor of Locker-
Lampson ; others of O. W. Holmes ; but, on
the whole, the echoes are distant enough to
pass muster. The author seems to have a
good eye for subject-points ; his execution
falls rather short of conception. Here is the
strongest piece in the book :
Reprints.
Itrtj aie scant.
Tread lightly, she is near
Under the snow ;
Speak gently, she can hear
The daisies grow.
All her bright golden hair
Tarnished with rust,
She that was young and fair
Fallen to dust.
Lily-like, white as snow,
She hardly knew
She was a woman, so
Sweetly she grew.
Coffin-board, heavy stone,
Lie on her breast;
I vex my heart alone,
She is at rest.
Peace, peace, she cannot heat
Lyre or sonnet :
All my life’s buried there,
Heap earth upon it.
Oscar Wilde.
Tears for my lady dead,
Heliodore !
Salt tears and strange to shed,
Over and o’er;
Go tears and low lament,
Fare from her tomb,
Wend where my lady went,
Down through the gloom.
Sighs for my lady dead,
Tears do I send,
Love long remembered,
Mistress and friend 1
Sad are the songs we sing,
Tears that we shed ;
Empty the gifts we bring—
Gifts to the dead !
Ah, for my flower, my Love*
Hades hath taken !
Ah, for the dust above,
Scattered and shaken !
Mother of blade and grass,
Earth, in thy breast,
Lull her that gentlest was
Gently to rest.
Andrew Lang, after Meleager.
Strew on her roses, roses,
And never a spray of yew !
In quiet she reposes;
Ah, would that I did too!
Her mirth the world required ;
She bathed it in smiles of glee.
But her heart was tired, tired,
And now they let her be.
Her life was turning, turning,
In mazes of heat and sound;
But for peace her soul was yearning
And now peace laps her round.
Her cabin’d, ample spirit,
It fluttered and fail’d for breath.
To-night it doth inherit
The vasty halls of death.
Matthew Arnold.
It is incorrect to say that the efforts of J.
C. Neild to write the worst verse ever pro-
duced in Australia have been completely
successful. There is an educated blackfellow
at Cooroopajerup (Vic.) some of whose com-
positions are distinctly inferior to Mr
Neild’s.
I think that a story should be conceived and
narrated for the story’s sake, as a disinterested
representation of life, of character, of events. It
should have no more “message,” or ulterior pur-
pose (as of discouraging religion, inciting sedition,
promoting loyalty, persuading us to marry our
deceased wives’ sisters, or to abstain from marriage
as an impure and odious invention), than have the
plays of Shakespeare, or “Old Mortality” or
“ Manon Leseaut. Andrew Lang.
Maud Walpole contributes to London Spectator
some rather striking verses on Margaret Catch-
pole the plucky Suffolk girl whose blood still
throbs in Australia. The episode chosen is the
night ride on the horse which she was transported
tor stealing. Here are the last stanzas
li'i! ar if d °,. er b ’ B b ' B neck > an d she slackened his rein
And he flew like a bird o’er the heathery plain •
btranyfe shadows waved with the waving trees
Stiange voices shrieked with the shrieking- breeze
But little she recked of things like these !
Faster and faster did she ride,
And wild things rode at her horse's side
The moon rode fast through a sea of grey
And the swift stars fled down the Milkv Way
And the great black shadows that earthward’lay.
She drew not rein nor paused for breath,
tor she rode for Life, and was chased by Death ;
All night she rode with the sleeping tide
r ” * fcl ? her Love and her Doom on either side,
Till the whole world joined in that headlong ride,
Margaret 1
<‘ni h vi m ,? ntI T e °t Ruskin seems to have fallen on
uuida. in Jan. Nineteenth Century she
discusses The Ugliness of Modern Life,” and
perorates thus
tvrant h /hs>?, l " eated ,f T or h ‘ m self in the iron beast a greater
human or Caligula. And what is the
nniah p /"'ll f the . lro " beast . what is the typical,
epoch'?’ b COns ‘ ,TCUOUS creation of the iron beast's
in 1 hll,dllrf I(l l il °‘ fc 1/ f ° r fch from ever Y city and town
lnd h hllv a* ’ tbo , UBa, ‘ ds . millions, with every holy day
Pad h hil l' Tl)e , ch . iet , creation of modern life is the
mavVifUrV exclusively modern manufacture, and it
nmlnpst fplili •‘"w thafc the Poorest slave in Hellas, the
a orntW* T 1 Egypt, the humblest pariah in Asia, was
the com p I m lde h “ n - The ° ad is the entire epitome,
told isl lip b i° SS P m and fruit in one, Cf what we are
he veils i s °l CU V ,re ' Behold him in the velodrome ns
L e ' nely his kind as they (ear along on
noor.inp de T, ' PaC,I " e 8 1,1 a ma'oh against Cody's
Onv .pllp^-f I ' o ' lo ' 08 ’ aild thpn l,sk yourself candidly,
eai-th ever ,’,'! j' e l>efore thi " i" all the centuries of
lorn snml !nodl .' e ' ed any creature so utterly low and
collectivel’v hideoul S / Ca The SnfO vicluaily and
of Kpitap in YY the helot of Greece, the gladiator
mebe nffim l,T 8h CWe, ° f Jl ‘ d '*''„' Europe, nay, the
France If n ,d P,‘ ndei ' or Elizabethan England, of the
dionifv nnriiv a °? 8 * °/ , l ' e Spain of Velasqmz, were
last leVrs If fh COniajfe person beside the cad of these
twentieth d f nl " et u ef ‘ l ‘th, this breaking dawn of the
screaimof'llli'lfitpl ’ 'll , cad «"»»»* with his shrill
or the f s knocks down the feeble' woman
e e •nl»rspe l Hf -l, hlld ,’ a " d ,nftlci "K life and death and all
intolerahlo f Q i ri *f lCU niere existence of his own
intolerable fatuity and bestiality.


Medical,
If yon cannot procnre at your Chemist, write us direct.
NORTHROP &. LYMAN CO., Ltd., 15 Bridge St., Sydney.
C.o
*
1
£
£
i\i tst no o i ).
HEAL 111. s IKt .w, in .-ia/j i n; oli RliSTORh*
In I'uitt Hubs by ihe u±e of
SI
The only TnfalUh'e Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedenti d success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions ,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for GGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for A-us'i alasia—Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales— W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygien'j, Infallible and Preservative.
Cl Jit £8 without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J. F E R R E
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Use Dr. King’s
Infallible ** Remedies
(POST FREE).
Pi 1 a "hi ni rl C! ensuro Immediate Relief
■ ±lO AdUlUiUo and Absolute Cure of Piles
—2/G and 4/- per Box.
Toxilene
Cures Quickly and Safely all
Diseases of the Urinary Organs
(both sexes) —4/- and 7/6 per Box.
The Wife’s Friend.
Every woman’s
welfare within
her own control. Safe, Efficacious. 10/6 per Box.
Confidential correspondence invited. Money
Orders payable to The King - Co., Sole Pro-
prietors and Manufacturers, 54 George-st. West,
SYDNEY, and Box 291 G.P.O.
("4 ENTS.’ Latest American Preventative —
JC Simple, effectual, last for years. 2/6 posted.
Write WILLIAM GARFIELD, Collins-street
West, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
%
«"0
{Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
Whose new and scientific treatment, by purifying
and enriching the blood, gives new life and tone
to the whole nervous and muscular systems, and
builds up a new constitution in the most enfeebled.
The first week of treatment brings glad relief, and
perseverance ensures a thorough and lasting
CURE.
nil r 1 IVI suffering from Nervousness and
IYI EL Debility, Exhaustion, Sperma-
torrhoea, Varicocele and Private Diseases, should
try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies.
Young Men and those Who Wish
to Marry,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from debility, should
consult him, for he is now enabled, quickly and
effectually, to remove the cause, and so prevent
life-long misery.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing
their troubles in detail, be treated at home. The
course of treatment will not in any way interfere
with their business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive
a straightforward and candid opinion of the case,
and the possibility of a cure. If the patient is
curable, he will tell him so, if not, he will also tell
him. He undertakes no case which he cannot
cure.
Med : cines sent securely packed and free
from observation to any part of the colonies.
WOMEN?”
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle-aged and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire confidence
andsuceess.
FEMALE PILLS for irregularities and ob-
structions. 10s. and 20s. per box. Guaranteed.
29 York-st., Wynyard Square, Sydney-
ARE YOU SUFFERING
From weakness of ihe Nervous System, loss if Noble
Manhood through early errois or excesses. If so, write
to me and I will send you an absolute cure. Address,
Private, P. 0., Box 347, Sydney.
MEDICINE SENT FREE
Tp MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £1 ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 399, Sydney.
MANHOOD RESTORED !
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restoro you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blopd, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Suffereis say, 1 wish I had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per Case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.]
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS
Are to be found in the <r LIGHT AND
LIFE ” for the Speedy Cure of Nerv-
ousness, Debility, Lost Manhood, and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book
will be sent Free, sealed for Six Penny Stamps.
Address
s. WARD AND 00.,
Sydnky Pharmacy, 76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IT MAY BE SELDOM
That Medical Advertisements can be relied on, but vve here assert the following facts, which can be
borne out from Testimonials in our possession. Thousands may see this, and treat it as some
announcements dr.serve, but in this they would make a great mistake,
AND FOR THIS REASON :
by taking notice of what we have already done and can do, as proved by thousands of grateful
acknowledgments of our skill which we hold, it may Save Your Life and that of your dear ones.
Has any Person Living
CURED 344 oases of ERYSIPELAS,
each case in 24 hours, and Never
Failed in One Case ? VVe have. Or
HYDATIDS for 15 years, and Never
Failed; or BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
which is supposed to be incurable ;
or RINGWORM in Half a Minutb ;
or ever actually cured the LIVEIt
and KIDNEYS in their Worst States
of Disease; or MARASMUS in Chil-
dren after All Hopes had been Given
Up by all the best medical men ; or
YELLOW JAUNDICE when life was
despaired of; or ECZEMA at ter 35
years' suffering ; or ASTHMA alter
25 years’ standing; or DEBILITY at
58 years or any age ? We answer—
WE HAVE CURED ALL
DISEASES,
and we repeat again, WE HAVE ;
and can also CURE Scurvy, Bad
Legs, Piles, Diphtheria, and remove
WORMS of all Sorts (Tape, Ring, and
Thread). We cure at once Itch,
Barbers’ Itch, Coughs, Colds, Bron-
chitis, Catarrh in the Head, Blight
and other Diseases of the Eves,
Varicose Veins, Deafness, and any
other diseases,
WHEN ALL OTHER TREAT-
MENT FAILS.
We say again WE HAVE, and having
established a Branch of our Melb.
House in Sydney, we ask the people
of N.S.W. to TRY US and See for
Themselves the Wonderful Remedies
WE HAVE.
OUR REMEDIES ARE SAFE, SURE, AND MODERATE IN PRICE.
- - 1
W. (VIEINITIPLAY & SON
505 i GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, & 188 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp’eted his New and Centrallv-siluated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 EJizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBDOSTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS k SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not fee!compe-
tent to fully describe your ease, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none bub the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STBEET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
- Shipping.
N G L A N D VIA AMEIUO A
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
Tlie steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under;
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £66 to £67 10s.
Combination Ticket, ... £57 Ids. Id.
STEERAGE £3l IDs. 7d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Passenger Office, Mocre
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
TICKETS. TICKETS.
ItEhl (111 It ATE <
To any-part of the Australian Colonics, New Zealand,
America, Europe, Africa, &c.
TICKETS liouyht, Sold , Ejcchuiit/ed,
—AT —
Passenger Ticket Supply Agency,
135 King Street (over F. F. Ice Co. \ SYDNEY ;
121 Spring Street, MELBOURNE; also ADELAIDE.
Medical.
QANCER AN IT T U MOT RS.
A Wonderful and Xutural li< mcdy
vFOtt,
Cancers and Tumours.
Pamphlet on the Subject post free on receipt of
4d. in Stamps. References.
Apply: A. M‘KEE and CO.,
City Medical Hall, Adelaide-st., BRISBANE.
Markell’s Pills.
A boon to the suffering, the friend of the household. These
wonderful herbal Pills quickly cure in either sex. all liver,
stomach, bowel and kidney complaints, constipation, biliousness
headaches, &e., blood diseases and female complaints.
Mai'kell S Pillg act like magic on the liver, stomach,
bowels and kidneys, stimulate and strengthen all the vital
organs of the body, purify the blood and restore the bloom of
health. If you are ailing (no matter what cause) try, hese pills
and you’ll bless the day you did so. Sold at all chemists and
grocers in the world, Is. per box, with full directions. Use them
mce and you ll never be without them,
LADIES!! I
Imminent Specialist in their
Should consult tl
particular ailment
29 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
DR.SPEEr
Female Pills for Irregularities. Ifs. and 20s. ptf
guaranteed O.K.
Ladies
Parisian Female Powders restore regu-
laiity and remove obstructions without
fail in 48 hours. No obstruction can resist them, and they
never leave any had after effects. Price 7,0., posted any
colony.. Write “SPECIALIST,” G.P.0., Melbourne.
,rfjffiffiHSMW
'W:
Will Cure
WHEN
Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Belts to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, how-
ever poor, need be with-
out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address —
Dr* Lamont Electric Belt Co M
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
3ST o C lire, M o P a y,
electro
belt
ri'HlS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt winch will
-*- cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list fpost free), which vvi.l convince the most
sceptical. Address —
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
Snakebite Antidote
POCKET CASES.
Si
For Dr. Mueller’s
Successful Treatment of
Snakebite by the Hypo-
dermic Injection of Strych-
nine, with Patent Poison
Sucker, Hypodermic
Syringe, two Tubes of
Strychnine Tabloids, which
will keep for years, and
Full Directions jor Use.
Price, complete, 16s 6d— postage paid lo all party
of Australia.
L. BRUCK, 13 Castle reash-at., SYDNEY.


Business Announcements.
TTAIRDRESSERS 4 V It WKiMAKIUS.
** To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising' 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clippej. Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THEJ.ADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d, ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from our pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from 6s. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 <Ss 682 George Street, Sydney.
Medical.
I
The Eminent Specialist in all Nervous Diseases.
Registered in England and the Colonies as a Physiciai
and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
newest American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book. Send
Six Stamps at once. Write your case freely
and confidentially. The charge of ONI
POUND ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace
for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about yetting Married ?
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the followinvr
symptoms, don’t delay a moment, and receive prompi
reply:—Depression of spirits, bashfulness, inability to
look frankly into the eyes of another, headache, hair
coming out, dim sight, noises in head and ears, weak
memory, forgetting persons, names, places, etc., loss
of voice, taste, or smell, sunken eyes, pimples on face,
paleness of face and lips, looks old for years, stunted
in growth, palpitation of heart, pain in or under breast-
bone, shortened breath, indigestion, with depression
after food, constipation or irregular bowels, flatulency,
gravel, weakness or pain across small of back, loss of
muscular power, afraid of something going to happen,
distorted sleep, moaning, talking, grinding teeth,
tearful or want to laugh. Dr. WALLACE, Box 52
Post Office, Park-street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dr. G-eorge On Lee,
Chinese Doctor,
23 CARLTON TERRACE, WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
A LL persons suffering from any Internal Diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have them
dispersed by medicine without cutting. Also CURES
Bad Eyes, Fits and Skin Diseases. He asks no questions,
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs his
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise. Has prac-
tised 25 years in Sydney. Consultation Fee, 10/6.
Health
V.
Disease
A. Valuable Book FOR MEN
containing positive proofs*
Doctor’s evidence, reference,
and exp ains an absolute and
Perfect Cure for Lost Manhood,
Premature Decline, Func-
tional Disorders, Kidney and
Bladder Diseases, &c.
Nearly One Hundred pages.
This Scientific Medical Treatise Posted for 6 Stamps.
Address— APOTHECARIES’ DISPENSARY.
506 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
gLOOD POISON
A SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
or Tertiary lil.OOll POISOa per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You can
be treated at home for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
here we will contract to pay railroad and
steamship fare and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge, if we fail to cure. If you have taken
mercury, iodide potash, and still have aches
and pains, Mucous Patches in the mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots, Ul-
cers on any part of the body, Hair or Eyebrows
falling out, it is this Secondary BLOOD POI-
SON we guarantee to cure. We solicit the most
obstinate cases and challenge the world for
a case we cannot cure. Physicians cannot
cure you. $500,00© capital behind our uncondi
tional guaranty. Absolute proofs sent sealed on
application. Address COOK. REMEDY CO„
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A.
'MESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
By the ARTIFICIAL EAR CUSHIONS.
Comfortable to wear and Invisible. Illustrated book
of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M,
if AST, Burke and Wills Chambers, Collins-st., MELB.
REAP THIS.
ELECTRIC BELT FREE.
How to Obtain It.
To introduce it and obtain Agents we will give away
a few of our £2 Belyian Electric Belts for Ner-
vousness, Rheumatism, Loss of Vitality, etc., etc.
Write to H. W. RUMMAN, Agent, 10 Imperial
Chambers, 91 I’itt Sire I,S RNEY.
Enclose Stamp for Reply. Don't .Hiss This.
fPwthington Pumping Engine Company ,
I S==S^
WORTHINGTON TRIPLE EXPANSION SURFACE
CONDENSING PUMPING ENGINE.
(HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE)
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY
TRADE MARiU
Victorian Agency—Sturt-street, South Melbourne.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
Are the Recognised Standard, of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World,
’ KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOR
IRRIGATION
SINKING
MINING
CREAMERIES
GARDEN SUPPLIES
WOOL SCOURING
WOOL DUMPING
WATER SUPPLIES
SEWERAGE
MARINE
TANK FILLING
BOILER FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
Schweppes
To be obtained at
all Clubs, Hotels, and Wine Merchants,
if specially ordered.
SODA WATER, &c
These Waters are Supplied to the Queen.
EXCELSIOR
NICOTINE
LIQUID
NO MORE POISONING!
DIP
COST
ABSOLUTELY DESTROYS TICKS and LICE. . __
CURES and PREVENTS SCAB and FOOTROT. A FcUtlllllg' pGr SllGGp.
NICOTINE MANGE CUE/E (in Bottles) 1/6; pints, 2/6 each.
NICOxINE BLIGHT CURE (in Bottles) J-pts., 1/6; pints, 2/6 each.
Weber, Lohmann & Co.,
AGENCIES THROUGHOUT THE
Melbourne—Rialto, Collins-st.
Sydney—63 Pitt Street.
COLONIES.
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
-H FOilS WEEKS
'"'before. after. Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “ cure alls ”
specifics, etc., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing Manly Vigor in youne or
old men. The Homeopathic Treatment cures in four weeks. All letters sent
sealed. Address, Dr , irvi NG C Q., 147 Collins St., Melbourne.
o/-.l' S^^ e « rnost P er f ec t Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED,
it Keeps the Skin Cool and Refreshed in the Honui
. Weather.
nnnnii'Jt£!r e removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, ftc.
And preserves the THE SKIN from the eflects of
exposure to the
WnTD, OR hard water,
Itia ffeotually than any other preparation.
J OOl^ 11^0 aQ d Refreshing if applied to
being out in the Sun, Tennis-
re PioveB all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
"nee in England, Is. & 2s. 6d. Sole Makers*
M BEETHAM & SON, Chemists CheltenWFr/.land.,
FELTON, GRIMYVADE &
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Co., Mel
Sydney.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world wher<
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have notl>eei
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onc<
leeogmsed. Fullest directions are supplied for their us<
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur
chasers should l°° k to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they ar<
sounous.
SWAGMAN : “Could yor give us a pipe of tobacco, mate?”
HORSEMAN: “Yes. I can give you some that was made in America, It’s CAMERON’S TWO SEAS — the best
smoke in the world!”
SWAGMAN : “My oath, it's good. I've bin trvin' to get it for years.”


Try Anthony Hordern’s
, Follow the lead of tens of thousands if you are
in the outside division ; while, if you are of the
chosen people, do as you have done before. We
have everything you can wish for. Whether you
are a man of 80, one foot in the grave ; or a young
fellow of 18, with plenty of pocket money and a
waggon-load of expectations —we are the people
who can please you right up to the hilt. A nice
b.T^rr blt , of ’FACCA or a dandy SUIT OF
CLOTHES ; warmth and comfort for your de-
clining years, or dainty solitaires for cuffs and
neck.
GIVE IT A NAME !
You can get it at our Store. A pound of
PAINT to furbish up the garden fence, a ton of
Iron to build a stable with, a SADDLE for your
nag, a DOLL for your daughter, a BONNET for
your wife, a CRADLE for baby, a PAIR of
GLOVES for your sweetheart, a TRICYCLE for
that nipper of nine, and anything else you may
happen to want; good things for lining your
carcass inside ; and correct arrangements for out-
side. There is no limit to the conveniences of our
Store; there is no end to the List of our Wares.
WE SELL EVERYTHING.
We have the honor of serving many thousands
every day, and delightedly record expressions of
unlimited satisfaction at our treatments. We
serve old friends, whose familiar faces remind us
of our youth, and sometimes when some well-
remembered form is missed, the sad thought
comes that one day or other all must pass away.
Then new faces come upon the scene, and young
faces, bringing evidence of our continued popu-
larity. From
GENERATION TO GENERATION
the children are likeminded with their parents,
sons and daughters, grandsons and grand-
daughters, one and all finding their way to the old
3tore. Pardon this little digression from ordinary
paths, but there are times, even in the most
practical moments, when sentiment asserts its
sway.
Anyhow, your best plan will be to do your
SHOPPING AT
ANTHONY HORDERN’S.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
FNIVEIISAL I’ItOVIIIKItS
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
SYDNEY.
Morning
Noon
Night
Good all the time. It removes
the languor of morning, sus-
tains the energies of noon, lulls
the weariness of night.
Hires’ R £‘
Delicious Sparkling, Appetizing.
A Shilling Package makes 5 gallon .
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale Agents for Australia —
SHIRLEY, CLAYTON, & Co.,
SYDNEY.
Artificial Teeth, £5.
COMPLETE (Upper and Lower) Gold Medal Sets
of perfectly - fitting Teeth, £5. Mastication
guaranteed. These are the best and lowest in price
made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
gums. Old misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering with own
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate
after if wanted. Painless extractions daily by nitrous
oxide or cocaine. Fee, ss. No danger or ill-effects
follow. Send for Treatise on Teeth.
Consultations Free. Fees precisely the same as adver-
tised. Mention this paper.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist,
New Address-
-28 WYNYARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert’s), SYDNEY.
TIP-TOP
Designed
Displayed
and Electrotyped BV us
F.T. UllfflßCG & CO.
EXPERTS IN
Advertisement Display
87 Clarence-st., Sydney.
TRY US
One
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. ZEIILIDIRIIIDG-lE] & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
£435 IN PRIZES.
Amykos Educational Competition.
For Circular giving Particulars, apply to C. A.
FALSTEDT, 87 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Q
•ST,m
Saffigg to%£\
C. Z*££"*x.
gaMUtS
RESTORES
Color, Fullness, and Beauty
TO HAIR
Which has become Wiry, Th ; n, or Gray.
It cures Itching- Humors, and keeps the scalp cool,
moist, healthy, and
FREE FROM DANDRUFF.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor is an elegant toilet article,—a
favorite with ladies and gentlemen alike.
It imparts to the hair, beard, and mous-
tache a beautiful silkiness, and a delicate
and lasting fragrance.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
All Druggists and Perfumers.
of cheap Imitations. The name—Ayer is prominent on the
wrapper, and is blown in the glass at the bottom of each bottle.
U t— lA___ -
y'
Ml
J ewe Hers.
Freetrade Prices.
Wholesale Only.
BEST ASSORTED STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
Walthams & Rotherhams
A SPECIALITY. Intercolonial and Country Buyers treated liberally.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
2 WYNYARD STREET,
Lazarus, Aronson & Co.,
Sydney.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HOHNEUR.
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
ll'// OL ESA L E ONL Y:
Borsdorff & Go.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
UO BA II ItAOK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
AND AT
Adelaide & Hotoart.
Trade Mark
*
T
t/.
m
2S
so
► RWr
C>
/
*
GREAT DISTRIBUTION of the LESSON ESTATE,
CONSISTING OF
Svdnev Suburban and Country Freehold Properties. Issue of 119,000 Shares at 10s.
* Ba n o t will absolutely take place a,t Hobart on lotlx APRIL ’ 1886.
The ir A-mwoT) MTC Bankers: BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
Trustees: Hon. ALEX. KETHEL, M.L.C. ; Hon. DANIEL 0 CONNOR, M.L.C. ... p _ o , n _
Value of Property to be Distributed £59,505.
First Prize £12,850; Second Prize, £lO,OOO ; Third Prize, £4420 ; Fourth Prize, £4OBO ; Fifth Prize, £2BOO ; Sixth Prize, £1450 ;
Seventh Prize, £1350; and 85 other Prizes, ranging- Irom £5O to £l3oO.
See Prospectus for detailed particulars of Properties. For SHARES and Information apply to p M LISSON, HOBART, TASMANIA ;or to
IST I LISSON POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, PITT STREET, STONEY, who will act as Agent for tl
4.Via PaV.n.te in New South Wales.
M'Ginty’s Happy Thought .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M'Ginty’s the fair and O’Ry an the wise,
a l i ley l , set ou^ — 80 they did —for a drink.
And they wanted to drink over head, ears and
eyes,
But they’d not the least taste of the jink—
ihey were sadly in want of the jink.
Said M'Ginty, “ My throat is as dhry as a brick.”
Said O’Ryan, “Faith mine is the same.”
baid M'Ginty, “ But sure we could alter it quick
If we took a deep dhrink at the sthrame—
Sweet bad luck to the tasthe of the sthrame!”
Said O’Ryan, “We’re here at the back of God-
speed,
And the divil a penny we own ;
Faith, ’tis hard wid our tongues out for whisky
indeed,
To be threatened wid wather alone—
Raw wather’s the divil alone.
“ And the doctors all say that ’tis full of disase,
Chock-full of young divils with tails.”
Says O’Ryan, “ I’ve dodged them the most of my
days,
But at last here their father prevails—
Yis, the divil their father prevails.”
But Mac gev a bounce and he shouted “ Hurroo !
Here’s a mighty good thing I’ve discerned •
You mesmerise me and I’ll mesmerise you,
And we’ll think that the wather has turned,
Aye, to best Irish whisky has turned.”
In a minute ’twas done, and the mesmerised pair
At once to the river ran down.
And ever since that hypnotising affair,
They’re the envy of all in the town :
They’re the two drunkest men in the town.
Zef.
The Rhodes-Jameson faction has re-chris-
tened Johannesburg “ Judasburg.”
Cecil Rhodes, no orator, is terse and pithy
in his remarks. For instance, at a meeting of the
De Beers Diamond Co., a shareholder asked what
would be the effect of the large output of dia-
monds, and was it not possible that fashion might
change and run on emeralds and other precious
stones? (Bachelor) Rhodes : “So long as women
are vain and men are foolish, so long will dia-
monds continue to be sought after ” —the case in a
nutshell. By the bye, it is whispered that the
management of the great enterprises with which
Rhodes is connected has caused such a strain upon
him that he flies pretty extensively to—lemonade #
This is the Polynesian garotte, recently
imported from Ambrym (New Hebrides), a
favorite mission vineyard : The garotters
find their victim away from the village,
garotte him, and, while he is unconscious, the
murderer places him on his face on the ground,
and, planting his knee on the victim’s back, twists
his neck and crushes his larynx, yet so as not to
dislocate the cervical vertebrae. When conscious-
ness returns the victim cannot speak, and knows
not the actual murderer. He is only able to crawl
or totter back to bed, and dies in the course of 12
or 24 hours of the effusion of blood from the rup-
tured vessels into the lungs, spine, and cranium.
[But why does the “simple savage ” bother with
these complications? Why not kill the man
right out? —Ed. B.]
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
The paternal Government lately constructed
a well for the use of the inhabitants of a certain
Westralian town. But it didn’t take the trouble
to provide a road to the well: the only access is
via somebody’s private property, and the owner
thereof charges Is. a time for the privilege of
walking across his ground to the water-supply.
An ordinary family finds the bill run into 2s. or
3s. a day for the right to hump its bucket of
water across this Goth’s paddock, and it is neces-
sary to be confoundedly civil to him as well; any-
body who makes remarks about his conduct is
liable to have the price raised to 2s. 6d. The town
is reported to be “ indignant,” but the miserable,
law-abiding place hasn’t enough public spirit to
turn out en masse, and haner this capitalist by the
feet from a tree, and charge him ten guineas for
being let down again.
Cairns Post, reporting a kanaka-grog-
selling case, alleges :
Sam Eromango, a native of the New Hebrides, was then
placed'in the box. In reply to questions by the P.M., he
said he did not swear on the Bible, but that he would go
to hell in the event of his telling a lie.
The P.M.—“ What’s more, you will go to gaol.”
Here is official confirmation of the decadence of
the consoling belief in hell in the torrid North.
Cairns is so hot just now that a place only a little
hotter —if it is hotter —has no terrors. Conse-
quently hell has to take a back seat. The warm
hell was originally invented for cold climates, and
if the clergy want to keep their grip on N.Q. they
should promptly supply another brand guaranteed
15,000 degs. colder than the North Pole. Yet that
would probably seem like Heaven to the Cairns
man. Decidedly, it is a hard matter to keep the
end of the dogmatic log up nowadays.


Australian Mutual
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE whioh DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy Chairman ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.; ROBT. J. KING, Esq.;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEEOE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ANNUAL INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Twelve Millions and a-Half Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1894 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £428,021
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £850,000.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
A. Good Carver wants a good knife. We think we have
as good a stock of Cutlery as any house
in Sydney, and we want your opinion
about our think. Call on us if you
want anything in this line, or anything
else in Hardware. Have just landed
the new L.R and C. Bread Knife, which
is a revelation, price 1/3 —the old style
has now got to go. Razors, hollow
ground, from 1/6 upwards.
MXean Bros. & Hig'g Ltd., 512-14 George-st., Sydney.
PARKER’S
Australian Hair Preserver.
Those who use it will never
become Bald.
It entirely removes Dandruff.
* * *
It promotes the Growth of the
Hair.
* * *
Jjadies will find it a perfect
boon ; it is not a dye—it
is not sticky or greasy.
One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
m
wM
This pure and excellent
remedy is now under Vice-
Regal patronage, and is used
by leading ladies of the colony
with most gratifying results.
If not procurable from your Chemist or Storekeeper, SAMPLE BOTTLE will be sent to you on
receipt of 3/6 in Money Order or Stamps. Testimonials from well-known citizens forwarded on
application to
J. CURTIN, Sole Agent, 84 Market Street, SYDNEY.
486.488&490 CEORCE STREET. SYD NE Y.
TRABE, MARK
Rej
The
mi fifce
AUSTRAL CLOTHIERS & OUTFITTERS
SAC SUIT
To Measure,
FROM
KATAPOI, O AMARU,
455.
GEELONG,
SCOTCH, and Best
N.S.W. TWEEDS, SERGERETTE,
INDIGO SERGES,
BLACK and BLUE CORKSCREWS.
Boys’ Unrivalled School Suits
(50 different Patterns)
Boys’ Blue Serge Sailor Suits
(Trimmed Uold or Black)
4/11
4/11
The Largest Juvenile Clothing Stock in the
Southern Hemisphere.
BEST QUALITIES at LOWEST PRICES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST, PATTERNS, TAPE and MEASURE FORM.
All Parcels Carriage Paid by Boat, Rail or Post.
IRO^ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STE Ot
Cultivating
Machine)')/.
M
EM
Mi’- •
WtL
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
X© c o m o fives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING -MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “ THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.
WHITELAW & CO.,
155 Swan3ton-street, Melbourne, BOOT & SHOE MANUFACTURERS
On receipt of remittance forward, carriage paid to any address in Victoria (other colonies 1/- extra)
any of their specialties in Boots and Shoes, catalogues of which will ’ ’
he sent on application. Their Hand-made Boots do not creak, are
flexible in the sole, have no nails, ] egs, or tacks whatever to wound
the foot, they do not require breaking in, being smooth and clean
inside.
Phe RATIONAL, a strong, serviceable country boot
~ UNIVERSITY, a town walking and business boot
~ HORSE-SKIN, a wide-welt, first class winter boot
~ American-dressed Russia and Ooze Calf Boots
MACHINE-SEWN BOOTS from 10s. 6d.
16/-
21/-
22/6
21/-
Whether you live one mile or
1000 away, we guarantee to fit
you. Our Self - measurement
System is perfect. Write us for
Patterns. Self - measurement
Forms and Tape. Free postal
delivery any distance. Serges
specially manufacture d for us by
one of the leading home houses
from 455.
S. M. BAUMASHE,
Manager.
London & Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 & 33 Erskine Street. SYDNEY.
H 1
rf
(D [fl
455.
Business Announcements.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of rainless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFELIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes“ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADD HESS.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, J\.S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 Bs. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
IUTR. AUBREY DAVIS, Dentist, of 492 George-
street (Royal Arcade), SYDNEY, has spared no
expense in fitting-up his luxurious consulting rooms with
the latest dental appliances. The Operating Chair is a
work of art, in which the patient can be raised, lowered,
or placed in any required position by hydraulic power.
Extraction is performed painlessly without Ether or
Chloroform, by spraying the gum with a new local
anesthetic—“ Chloride of Ethyl.” Artificial teeth of the
best quality are fitted at prices not much more than half
the rates commonly charged a few years ago.
Public Companies.
INSURE with a COLONIAL
THE ™
City Mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY, Limited.
HEAD
OFFICE:
95
Pitt Street
Sydney.
Chairman:
J OHN SEE Esq., M.P. (late Colonial Treasurer.)
The CITY MUTUAL Fire Company is a purely
Australian institution, having a large and in-
fluential body of shareholders, all closely identified
with and contributing to the prosperity of Aus-
tralia. All funds invested in the colony. Rates
are lowest. Settlements prompt and equitable.
A Cash Bonus paid Insurers every year.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
it2T Transacts FIRE insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., £B47B— divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making £82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
RESERVE & INVESTMENT FUNDS, *117,020.
UNCALLED CAPITAL, £75,000.
PURELY a COLONIAL OFFICE, deriving
its income from New South Wales only, no risks
being taken outside the colony.
A BONUS of 20 PER CENT, has been paid
annually since 1873, divided between Policy-
holders and Shareholders. The amount thus dis-
tributed totals £118,651.
Claims promptly and liberally settled. FIF-
TEEN DAYS’ GRACE allowed for Renewal
of Policies—a protection afforded by no other
Fire Insurance Company.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets, Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. htd. of London.
Passenger Policies for Travellers In-
suring against Accidents & Shipwreck.
Australian Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide: P. P. Plummer. L. A. Jessop, Director.
Melbourne: D. Clynb. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
58 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
iu
Q
O
o
u
zr
UJ
y
1^
«Wn»K!WL»W^j[
appeared here, and it has won erpatpr , B P? ken as tlis finest plug-tobacco that has evei
anything previously. This is no idle hnanf H ur ’ ng t,ie short time it has been on the market than
there are few towns in N.S.W where “YANKWT? P n?vrmT ? moker can test the statement, for
has this year increased nearlv nnp DOODLE is not known and sold. Its sale
Simply that “YANKEE DOOT)T F»> i (100) per cent over that of last year. And why is this?
years of careful study from a striJ ck the popular taste. In the first place, it comes, after
exquisitely flavoured, that anv Rmflr tL” ° f Ce !i fca 'V c,101 ? e Virginian tobaccos, so blended and
forced to admit that he has at last can st . a . n< l a tobacco heavier than the pure gold-leaf is
been accustomed to. DIXSON B °™ etb,n f? far and away better than anything he has
usiness has been buißnnL\\ Ve - fcake \ OV ? r to accomplish this f and, as
oin B , t a;r m «-»«* ’<**• >?
_ TT Tobacco Factories & SONS, who use more American leaf
QUEROR,” “ SIR ROGER -’ ‘‘ CHAMPmTT d .’. ar ?, n ,?^ T f ? r Sfiveral Oigh-class brands :-“CON-
ranks supreme. ’ OHAMIION, and DOLLAR;” but “YANKEE DOODLE'


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 17.—N0. 838.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7. 1396.
Price, 6d.
THE DEMON-FACED CRAB.
IN JAPANESE WATERS.
This interesting creature has a way some-
what less in size than a florin in the lar-
ger specimens, and on the carapace, sculp-
tured in with unmistakable fidelity, is the
face of a Mongolian, a diabolical, leering
Jap., With eyfes, nose, mouth, high cheek
bones, and wrinkled forehead, fully and
clearly defined. Nowhere in the uncon-
scious delineation of nature is there so
finished a picture of the human face as
Stares weirdly from the carapace of this
grotesque sea thing.
fro"j
%-x^k
THE DEMON-PACED LAND-CKAB, AS SKETCHED BY a REPENTANT FREETRADER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians .”
Proprietors and Publishers :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. (Limited).
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 P ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 b 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling —with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province, you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every iveekfor
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to
interfere
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald. .
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MS. ivhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event, will
be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture containing
a good or adaptable idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal : The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also :—R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Westralia and Maoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is now £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage. England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
7%[e ZBzzlZelzoi.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7, 1896.
The Great Bogus Land.
Westralia is for the present this continent’s
land of promise. On a smaller scale Para-
guay was its land of promise a few brief
years ago, but Paraguay is under a cloud
now from which it seems unlikely to
emerge. Various other places have also
been Australia’s land of promise at pre-
vious stages of its history, and Australia
itself was for many years—and to some
extent is still—regarded by a large number
of people in Europe as a species of Canaan
in the far distance. It is one of the idiosyn-
cracies of man in general that he always
believes there is some blissful spot on this
earth which will furnish him with happiness
and wealth and prosperity if he can only get
there. What kind of place it may be matters
nothing ; any barren, sun-blasted waste in
the land of GoD-forgotten will do to make an
Elysium out of, if it is only a long way off.
Therefore, Westralia, the saddest, poorest,
meanest, most utterly hopeless region to be
found between the Great Australian Bight
and Carpentaria and from the Leeuwin to the
Hauraki Gulf is serving the purpose at pre-
sent. The exodus to Westralia goes on more
or less persistently from every other province
in Australasia, yet hardly anything has
occurred so far to justify a movement on
such a scale, and nearly everything that could
happen to show the utter folly of it has
happened.
* * * *
Westralia is, even in this boom-time, the
least promising province of the seven. It
has very little agriculture, very little in the
way of pastoral industry, and hardly the
semblance of anything that can be called
manufactures. The total area under crops is
about half that of little Tasmania, and about
one-twenty-fourth that of Victoria, yet Vic-
toria is barely one-twelfth the size. The
Swan River province covers one-third the
entire area of Australia, and the whole
annual value of its pastoral, mining, agricul-
tural and manufacturing products is not
much over one-sixtieth of the production
of the rest of the continent. In proportion
to its size, it produces about 200 times less
than Victoria, even with its alleged gold-
yield reckoned in. Westralia, apart, from its
auriferous deposits, has absolutely nothing
to recommend it. And as a gold-producing
province, surprising as it may seem to many in
view of the boom that has been raging for
three years past, it is in point of actual results
the very poorest in all Australasia, South
Australia alone excepted. Considering that
Westralia lives on its reputation as a land of
gold, and on that alone, this seems suffi-
ciently incredible, yet it is fully proved by
the official reports just issued. In its best
year, 1895, it produced less than one-third as
much gold as Victoria, which, taking the
relative sizes of the two provinces into con-
sideration, shows that Victoria, even in its
decadence, is fully 36 times richer a gold
country than is the new province in its
youth, so far as present results go. On the
same basis Queensland is five times, New
South Wales five times, Maoriland eleven
times, and Tasmania nine times richer than
the alleged Golden West. Even South Aus-
tralia is almost as rich, so far as can be
judged by the production up to date, as the
Great Bogus Land of which Forrest is dic-
tator. That land comprises nearly a million
square miles of country, and in no other part
of Australasia can a million square miles of
land be found which do not yield at least
three times as much gold. On the cold logic
of facts and official figures it is by many
times the poorest spot of its size in all this
continent, and the W.A. boom is about the
most outrageous instance of lying on one side
and blank credulity on the other which has
been seen this century.
* * * *
Even the published figures do not show
fully the wretchedness of hungry and
waterless Westralia as a gold producer. Last
year Victoria and Queensland each yielded
three times as much of the yellow metal, and
New South Wales and Maoriland also pro-
duced each many thousands of ounces more.
In Maoriland and Victoria, too, the yield
last year increased faster than in Westralia.
In all the Eastern provinces the gold is widely
diffused and affords an existence to hundreds
of miners, a good living to hundreds more,
and a fortune to a few; while in Wes-
tralia it yields about once a year an immense
pile to one man or one party, and starvation,
or something not much better, to the rest of
the seekers. In all Westralia, which is
nearly as large as Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland combined, the number of
known dividend-paying mines at the present
time could almost be counted on the fingers
of one hand. Moreover, the gold-return,
miserable as it was last year, shows signs of
falling off. The gold-returns for the last
month of 1895 were much smaller than those
for the first month, and those for January,
1896, were smaller still. Bayley’s Reward
is practically dead and buried. The London-
derry is seemingly ditto. The Wealth of
Nations is almost forgotten. There is hardly
one sensation left save the Great Boulder,
and Victoria alone can show old, partially
worn-out mines that are almost as good even
yet as the Boulder is at its prime. Also,
there are fields almost deserted in Victoria
to-day which look more promising than the
vaunted Ooolgardie, and yet no one could
raise a boom on them by all the lying of all
the Ananias tribe from the first of the name
downwards.
* * * *
The Westralian boom, when analysed, is a
weird affair. First of all, a few large finds
were made, or rather a few moderate finds
which looked large because they were con-
densed in a very small space. When
£50,000 worth of gold was taken out of a
few square yards of ground, the credulous
British investor assumed that the rest of the
ground would yield at the same rate, and
proceeded to float these finds into £700,000
companies. Very little of this nominal
capital ever came to Westralia—it was
almost all annexed by various financiers in
London. But the amounts looked enormous,
and a rush of immigrants, most of them with
more or less money, set in. Westralia has
lived since then to a very great extent on
the money of these immigrants, who brought
much more gold into the province than
they ever took out of its reefs. Their
inrush created Coolgardie, Kalgoorlie,
and many other towns, and gave the land
there an artificial value. These towns
exist, not to get gold by legitimate mining,
but to float companies on the unfortunate
J. Bull ; so long as J. Bull will buy the
business of pegging out leases and floating
companies goes on ; while it goes on the bar-
ren desert on which Coolgardie and the other
towns stand is worth often many pounds per
foot frontage, though its value, measured
by the gold production, is little more than as
many pence. Apart from the industry of
floating companies on J. Bull the people
live by selling leases to each other, not for
working purposes, but for flotation on
J. Bull later on ; by selling food and drink
and tobacco to each other, building houses
for each other, taking each other in as
boarders, doing each other’s washing, bor-
rowing money on mortgage upon the fictitious
value which their presence (for the purpose
of floating mines on J. Bull) has given to
the land, bringing up stores for each other
per team, bringing up timber to sell to each
other or to supply the mines that are living
on British capital, building railways with
borrowed money to take people to and from
places which live on borrowed money,
buying shares from each other, discounting
each other’s bills, and publishing newspapers
which tell each other about the amazing
resources of the country.
So far, in not one single instance, has the
British investor received anything ‘
decent return for his money, and, so t ,
not one single mine has been proved payable
at any respectable depth ; therefore, unless a
wondrous change comes over the spirit of
the dream, the time must come when J. 801 l
will listen to the voice of the charmer no
longer, and the influx of British money will
practically cease. Up to date very few in-
deed of the strangers from the eastern pro-
vinces have realised their visions of wealth
and glory ; therefore, unless a great change
arrives, the influx of capital from the east
must some day die away also. Owing to
want of water, want of fuel, difficulty of
carriage, scarcity of gold, and many other
drawbacks, every £1 extracted from the
earth in the shape of the yellow metal has
cost, on a rough estimate, £<3 to extract, and
only the influx of foreign capital has kept
mining alive under such conditions.
Obviously unless a change conies here also
the time must arrive when the boom will die
for want of dividends, for even the maddest
of prospectors won’t keep working for ever
on these ruinous terms, and the maddest of
British investors won’t keep investing for
ever unless he gets a fair return. The fields
have no agricultural, pastoral or manufactur-
ing industries to fall back upon. They don t
produce enough gold to pay working ex-
penses, and when the foreign capital fails
the population will begin to drift away.
Then property values will fall, and there
will be no more money to be raised by
mortgaging the fictitious prices of land. The
people who live by selling leases and shares
to each other will drop off for want of buyers.
The people who live by building houses, and
taking in washing, and providing accommo-
dation, and selling food and drink and
tobacco, and bringing up stores, and all the
rest, will go the same way ; they all live on
the foreign capitalist, in the first place, and,
in the second, on the artificial land-values
they create by getting together in one spot for
the purpose of living on the foreign capitalist.
The remorseless logic of the gold returns
issued by Government shows that Westralian
mining, even after yeai’3 of hard borrowing,
doesn’t pay its way, and a field that has no
material resources save gold, and whose one
material resource is a dead loss, is doomed.
♦ * * •
Last year — 1895 —was the best year up to
date in Westralia’s history. Also, in a sense,
it was the worst. There was a large influx
of population, the greater part of which was
bound for the goldfields, and the united
efforts of all these new adventurers increased
the gold-yield to the extent of less than one
ounce per man. In other words, the
strangers made, in actual realised wealth, an
average income of something like £4 each
per annum. What else they acquired was
made by selling bogus mines to J. Bull or
to other people ; by getting together in one
place, and thereby giving an artificial value
to a bit of sand, and then buying, selling,
mortgaging, and booming it ; by making
roads and railways, and being paid by the
State with borrowed money for doing so ; by
floating companies to supply, with borrowed
money, water and gas to populations that
will presently fade away, unless something
unexpected happens ; by selling land, or
mines, or shares, or options, or miscellaneous
shadows to each other at enormously inflated
values on bills, and then discounting the bills
with banks which may be very sorry for it by-
and-bye ; by swapping shadows and exchang-
ing hallucinations ; and otherwise by eating
their own and each other’s tails. But the solid
basis of it all was the aforesaid £4 each per
annum only that, and nothing more. And
the fact that man does not live on £4 per
annum is too patent to require demonstration
* * * *
The Westralian gold-boom is like no other
gold-boom that this country ever saw. None
of the ordinary rules apply to it; it can be
measured by no recognised standard that
Australians are acquainted with ; and all the
old experiences of all the old diggers in this
country afford no criterion by which it can be
judged In the early golden days of Vic-
toria, N S. Wales, Queensland, and Maori-
land individual diggers toiled with the pick
and shovel, and lived on the proceeds of their
r jIV 1 the f? were no Proceeds then they
didn t live. Almost the only capital was what
was du ß« U m° f the grouud ’ and the one test
of a goldheld was its value in actual gold. In
A estralia all these conditions are upside
d °n n 'f T n 6 0f a g° ld held is not what
gold it will produce, but what it can be sold
S*’ °n \°r “V ICh P eo l ,le think it can be sold
the 'l rave I n . ous . British rogues and
en to the sheep-like investors on their
s ling. lie existence of a town in a given
spot is not a proof that there is gold enough
to support it only that enough fore fn
money has been drawn there to supportT
prove 6 thtt 1 X f bigg6St tOWU doesn ’t
piove that the locality around is the most
auriferous— merely that it is the locality
Tlm IbiSttf\]7 St artisticall y lied nbU
? f. , , rile miner is not to sink his
shaft as quickly as possible, and to o-et out
tbe metal in the shortest possible time • if
he has a good show his object is to avoid
dicaSis doiflt bf • BUrfRCe in ‘
coZty the M jq god
of the i,liner is not to mL‘ T 1 ™ ol ’ iect
Hves '»™ly by „„ t ”i“™' Vato^
paper, and bluff, and big, flaring London
ofhees, and ornate boards of directors with
peers on them from the very beginning,
Therefore, its future can t be judged by the
experiences of Bendigo or Ballarat or Char-
ers lowers or Gympie or any other field,
but its present, judged by its own official
returns, is about as depressing as it wel]
can be.
The J. P System,
Sore as are the afflictions imposed upon the corn
munity by individual stipendiary magistrates
the revelations of the Lormer Board of En-
quiry, now jogging along spasmodically in Mel-
bourne, show, it there were any need of showing
the imbecility of the unpaid-magistracy system’
Putting aside the imputation'of bribery and
favoritism, the incapacity, the want of judicial
balance, and the mental puniness of those to
whom are entrusted the characters and security
of thousands, are sufficiently striking to cause
doubts of the existence of their vaunted com-
mon-sense in the peoples who tolerate the
system. Where justices are honest, rule-of-
thumb law is what they “chuck” at you, it
being quite a common experience for a lawyer
who cites a ruling-case in point to save the
expense of an appeal, to have the decision given
against him “on the facts”—for his temerity in
telling the “beak” the first principles of his
business. Astute lawyers never know cases in
the police-courts—they know the justices in-
stead. And it works well. The dogs of Stam-
boul divide the city into cantonments, with
summary justice against poachers : Lhe police-
court lawyers divide the justices, and each is
supreme over his own pack.
* * * *
“ Justices’ justice ” was a byword and a sort
of tolerated reproach when their jurisdiction
was limited to a few pounds’ worth, or to the
preliminary proceedings of a Supreme Couit
trial; but when it plays the jumping clown
over a jurisdiction of hundreds of pounds and
in criminal matters practically beyond appeal,
its existence becomes an intolerable nuisance
and a grave national danger. More laws are
repealed by the ignorance and private passions
of pigheaded or unscrupulous justices than by
the established constitutional machinery.
England for long objected to remove the
consular courts of Japan, because, although the
Japanese laws were good, she was doubtful
about the administration of them. Could a
more apt example of wretched administration
be found in China itself than our unpaid judi-
ciary ? On England’s precedent it should be
quite sufficient to ground a claim for Japanese
consular courts in Australia for the protection
of Japanese subjects. Parliament may pass
hactories Acts as it chooses ; but manufacturers
who are justices, sweaters who are justices,
have to interpret them, and as their decision
is final on questions of fact, they will gladly
interpret their. The “social evil” may be
legislated out of existence, but you have to
reckon with the justice who is the landlord of
the bawd, or the justice who is the “fancy
man” of the nymph, or the justice who is her
wine-merchant, or livery-stable-keeper, or the
one who is always on hand, for a consideration
in money or in kind (frequently kind), to bail
her out on occasions. What system could be
devised more certain to breed injustice, or to
blast a nation’s character for striving to secure
justice, than one which so works in the great
pastoral districts of Australia (where nearly all
offences and disputes are either against or by or
with squatters) that nearly all the Justices of
the Peace are squatters or their hangers-on ?
And in this case one of the offences over which
they have jurisdiction is a class offence, the
committal of which entails imprisonment on
the workman, but only a money penalty on the
squatter.
* * * *
The qualifications of a J.P. are nil, unless
successful flunkeyism at elections be reckoned
one. Whatever brains are necessary are sup-
plied by an underpaid clerk of courts. The
justice usually prides himself on his ignorance
of the law he has sworn to administer justly
and without fear or favor, so that perjury
would seem, in many cases, to be another
essential for a justice. The Bulletin, of
course, is not admiring the law, it merely asks
for fair weight and no adulteration in the
donkey-meat the people pay for. As the
justice is usually a man who has acquired or is
acquiring a competency by rigid adherence to a
sordid ideal of life, is animated mainly by the
ordinary ambitions of putrid Respectability,
and is inaccessible to any of the sweeter in-
fluences of true culture, he carries his limita-
tions in these respects on to the bench—judges
motives from the lowest point of view, and
equips with the sanction of law the knock-
kneed marionettes of shoddy conventionality.
The justice does nob come from the people ; he
is but one of the keener-knifed of the leeches of
the people. He is of the crowd who gorge at
town-halls, who work the oracles of secret-
society boodledom, who boss the “invites” to
mayors’ balls, who blarney the working man at
Sunday-school tea-meetings, who, in a word,
are in the swim and mean to keep there by
hook or crook. His presence is an insult to
Democracy, for he is not selected through
merit, nor elected for fitness, as was his ancient
prototype. Besides, he is unpaid. That is to
say, if he needs payment he must find it himself.
And, needless to say, he can, and often does,
easily manage that.
♦ * * »
There should be no unpaid officers in a demo-
cracy. Whatever may be said against this
from the ideal standpoint (and much may be
said) the experience of ages goes to show that,
in practice, the power of the purse is one of
the principal safeguards of freedom. Econo-
mically, the proposition soon justifies itself.
As a mere insurance premium for sound
justice, a salary would be a mere fleabite,
when the amount of money and of g ao ‘
involved in the case is considered. But,
apart from this, the danger of “justice on the
loose ” is greatly to be apprehended when men,
reduced, perhaps, to impecuniosity by exploded
swindles; are practically invited to help them-
selves out of the pockets of the public, without
check or limit. When our Tammany times
come (if they aren’t here now), they will fi nt *


* “Songs ’Neath the Southern Cross,” by J. C. Neilcl.
George Robertson and Co., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
and Brisbane.
their most suitable “ soil ” in our unpaid muni-
cipal councils, our unpaid Legislative Council,
and our unpaid magistracy.
* * * *
The whole system must be swept away.
It is undemocratic. Election might remedy
this. 1 lie custos pacts of old times was
elected by the people, so that this method
would be consonant with a time preceding that
in which the sordid sway of the country-
squire lay like a nightmare on the chest
of English politics. Again, the system is an
unjust one. A primal “fount of justice” is
the maxim that no man shall be a judge in his
own cause. A system which allows a grocer to
decide for or against a friendly or a rival grocer
in the same neighbourhood, which draws its
judges of the rights and duties of labor from
the employer-class almost solely, which ap-
points a principal shareholder in a brewery to
punish the licensing offences committed in a
hotel the property of the brewery, and which
frequently sees its magistrates alternately
on the bench and on the floor of the
court as suitors, deliberately breaks this
maxim, and must go. And that the system
is a corrupt one, that there are “blind
magistrates ” (thanks, John Chinaman, for once,
for your exquisite irony !), that there are judg-
ments dictated by personal connections witli
lawyers and clients, and by class animosity or
favoritism, that decisions on “questions of
fact ” are unscrupulously given in order
to prevent appeals—these things are so
well known to that universal rumor which,
though rejected as worthless by technical
rules of evjdence, seldom errs, that any
citation of specific instances is unnecessary.
The unpaid magisterial system is rotten in
principle, vicious in its undemocratic spirit, in-
capable of any improvement on account of
its material, immoral in its influence, and
either inane or corrupt in its practical adminis-
tration.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Nicholas Willis on Foreign Capital.
Premier Reid has renewed his promise—the
one he made a year ago and didn’t keep—to
float future loans in the local market. Where-
upon Nicholas Willis, M.L.A., the evil
genius of the N.S.W. Protectionist party,
sends to the daily papers a remonstrance and
an essay on the beauty and loveliness of foreign
borrowing. These are the bones of Nicholas’s
story :
So development should continue by leaps and bounds
until the colony, properly developed,'can boast an edifice
of national resource, which, founded on the rock of
stability, can rest conscious of its own strength. . . .
But will not Mr. Reid’s proposal have a diametrically
opposite effect ? It will open the door to the unthrifty
investor, who, content to take small interest, will throw
his money into the hands of the Government and quietly
await dividend day without putting his hand to the
plough of development. It will close the door to the
flood of English capital, which is so essential towards
cheapening our local money-market. It will, in a word,
absorb all the available local money, tighten the money-
market here, strangle enterprise, stifle development, and
hinder the producer on the soil, who has gone on through
a succession of bad seasons, tight money-markets, and
financial crises, in a hope that when a change did come
the surplus would be on the market for borrowers who
had borne the heat and burden of the day, and not
absorbed by a short-sighted Governmental act which will
make matters really worse than they were in the past.
Every man or woman with a hundred pounds will run to
the Government for stocks instead of placing his or her
money at fixed deposit in the banks ; and thus the capital
usually lent by such corporations to men who would work
with it and endeavor to make more is practically robbed
from the producer by the Government itself, thereby
causing stagnation in trade —a hindrance to the borrower,
the effect of which would, I assert, vibrate throughout
the colony. . . . lam convinced, now that the wave
of prosperity has commenced to set in, that ten millions of
money could be financed by our Government at 3 per
cent.
The average man, who knows about as much of
finance .as Hamlet did of the Schleswig-Holstein
question, has been accepting this view of things
for a good many years now with disastrous
consequences. The only thing that is wrong
about it is that it is all a fallacy from beginning
to end. If the Government borrow's money in
the country and spends it there, it doesn’t
“ absorb the available local money ” nor
“strangle enterprise,” nor “stifle develop-
ment,” nor leave the banks with less money to
lend to the private borrower. If the Reid
Ministry borrow-s, say, £2,000,000 locally, it
will come out of the banks in the first place and
go in again the same day or next day—it will
be transferred from the credit balance of the
lenders to the credit balance of the Government,
and the money in the banks will remain the
same. Then if the Government spends it in
the province it will be taken out by degrees to
pay wages and buy material, and the wage-
earners will promptly dissipate it among store-
keepers and others in the purchase of neces-
saries, and in a few weeks’ time it will have
drifted back into the banks again and be ready
for lending out just as it was before. It will
be at the credit of a different set of men,
but otherwise there will be no change. If
the banks had £10,000,000 in cash, the Govern-
ment could float twenty £5,000,000 loans out of
that sum in succession, provided it spent
one loan before raising the next one—in other
words, it could borrow the money 10 times
over ; and, so long as it spent the cash in the
country, the same old pile of money would be
in the bank again when the last opera-
tion was finished, waiting to be borrowed
for the 21st time. Australia has at present
more gold in proportion to population than any
other country on earth, and the idea of borrow-
ing money to bring gold into a country in that
condition is ludicrous. As to the theory that
money should be borrowed in England because
it can be obtained there at a lower rate, and
brought into Australia to “ cheapen our local
money-market,” that also is a mere superstition.
Cheapness is only a relative term ; 15 per cent,
is cheap if money elsewhere costs 20 per cent.,
and 3 per cent, is dear if money elsewhere costs
only 2 per cent. The only object of bringing
in borrowed money is to make interest as
low here as in England, and if Australia
borrowed a thousand millions from England it
wouldn’t arrive at that destination. Money is
always cheaper in the country which is receiv-
ing interest from abroad than in the one that is
paying interest to foreign creditors, and all the
borrowing in the world wouldn’t alter this fact.
The only way to make interest as low here as
in England is to swear off foreign borrowing, and
gradually pay off the country’s foreign liabili-
ties, and make this country financially inde-
pendent. Borrowing money to make interest
low' is only drinking to get sober. Foreign
loans, however, produce one definite re-
sult which is the one thing Mr. Willis
does not allude to. For a short time
until the interest eats up the money and
takes it back to England—they cause an un-
natural abundance of cash, and an outbreak of
speculation, and a boom in land values, and on
the top of that boom the big squatter— Nicholas
Willis is a squatter if this paper remembers
aright—can sell out his property at three times
its real value and go away in peace. The Melb.
laud-boom, with its natural complement of
awful burst, was caused by the influx of
foreign capital, and the ten millions Mr. Willis
wants to borrow in London at 3 per cent,
would make the same boom and burst in New
South Wales.
Shiels and Speight.
Dear Bulletin, —The nice things said of
Speight by ex-Premier Shiels, in the Vic.
Assembly last month, have been contrasted
with the nasty remarks made by the same
Shiels when lie was accomplishing Speight’s
destruction in 1892. It suited Melb. Age to
point out the awful inconsistency of the politi-
cian, and argue that his latter utterances were
necessarily insincere because they flatly contra-
dicted his former statements. But there were
some much more former statements by Siiiels
to which the organ of David Syme didn’t call
attention. In December, 1890, Mr. Shiels was
acting, under old James Munro’s Premiership,
as Minister of Vic. Railways, and it fell to him
to usher in a new railway policy, or rather an
amendment of the old Act, with a long speech.
He was an admirer of Speight at that time-
-15 months previous to turning him adrift. All
the mischief possible had then been done, and
Parliament was discussing a huge railway deficit
which had come to stay. And Shiels spoke in
this tone :
They might refuse to renew Mr. Speight’s tenure of
office ; they might carry out the hopes raised by Mr.
Giddies’s letter (promising a rise of salary), or they might
reappoint him under the terms of his original engage-
ment. To refuse to renew the appointment would be a
direct reflection on Mr. Speight. That could only be
justifiable if he had proved himself incompetent anil in-
efficient. ... A man would be simply a wonder if he
could manage such a complex railway system as that of
Victoria without complaints or accidents. . . . Mr.
Speight had done nothing to conciliate the public, but
there was another side of the case which every reasonable
and just man should take into account. He practically
stood with his hands tied behind his back. He was called
to preside over a department that was disorganised
and torn by internal jealousies and dissension.
The Commissioner of Railways had to work with
officers that were, in some cases, incompetent,
in others effete, and become responsible for their work.
. . . If he had been more Draconian in discipline, and
more severe in demanding implicit obedience, the public
would have been better served. But what would have
been the consequence in Parliament ? The clamor would
have been intense. . . . Placing in the balance all the
merits or demerits of Mr. Speight, and the difficulty of
getting a better man for the money, the Government felt
it was their duty to reappoint him at the original salary
of £3OOO. He had heard even Mr. Woods say that Mr.
Speight was a man of wonderful resource in every detail
of railway management.
The Shiels of December, 1890, it appears, was
the Shiels of January, 1896, as regards his
opinion of Speight, whereas the intermediate
Premier Shiels —the weakling whose railway-
policy was laid down for him by the Age pro-
prietor—professed to see his duty in Speight’s
peremptory dismissal. Shortly put, the mem-
ber for Normanby has now recanted his previous
recantation, and confirmed his original judgment.
He spoke well, then ill, then well again of
Speight, and the odds are two to one in favor
of the twice-told tale.— Old Newspaper.
Bad Law and Bad Liquor.
The casual, hap-hazard way in which the law
is administered according to the state of the
judicial liver, and the utter want of any visible
connection in its decisions, helps materially to
brighten up an otherwise dreary and painful
subject. For instance : A week or two ago a
shopman in a Sydney grocery store was charged
with selling Australian wine without a license,,
and without his employer having a license, and
in the course of the proceedings it transpired
incidentally that the wine, which was labelled
“old port,” or something to that effect, was
only a loathsome imitation of what it pre-
tended to be. It was not proved that the luckless;
employe knew his master had not the requisite
license, nevertheless he was sentenced to pay
,£3O and costs, or to do three months in gaol.
Then the employer was charged with selling
bogus liquor, and he was fined ,£2O and costs, in
default levy and distress, but so far it seems
that nothing has happened to him over the
license question. So the situation pans out some-
thing like this : When an employer causes his;
servant to sell bogus liquor and to sell it with-
out the employer having a proper license, the
servant is directly responsible for his master
not having a license, and the master is respon-
sible for the liquor. There was no direct evi-
dence to prove that the knew his boss;
hadn’t a proper license, or that he knew his
boss’s liquor was bad, but, by a beautifully fine;
distinction, it is decided that he ought to have
known about the license, but couldn’t reason-
ably be expected to know about the liquor. By
another beautifully fine distinction the boss is
responsible for selling bad liquor by deputy,
but not for selling without a proper license by
the same deputy. The law also holds that the
proper punishment for selling unspeakably bad
liquor on your own account is one-third
less than the proper penalty for another man
not having a license. Further, the Bench said
the conduct of a man who was fined ,£2O was
disgraceful, but it made no severe comments on
the man who was fined ,£3O or three months, so
apparently the disgracefulness and infamy of
the proceeding are deducted from the penalty ;
and it has now been legally affirmed that to
corrode the human stomach with infamous
liquor is <£lo less nefarious than to be employed
by a man whose license isn’t in good order—
which is interesting for the person with the
corroded stomach.
Queensland Govt, has disfranchised 3577 elec-
tors enrolled at the Jan. revision-courts by
dating the elections a month before the usual
time, in the ordinary course of that regular pro- j
vince. This was done after the agents of the
Political Ass had scrutinised the rolls or pumped
the registrars and ascertained that the probable
balance of the new votes would be strongly
against Boodlewraith. So utter is political
demoralisation that even the democratic press
hardly bothers to protest—a long course of
Boodlewraith has seared the public conscience.
And Premier Nelson’s manifesto lays cynical
stress on the favor with which he regards
“such an amendment of the electoral law as
would place every man in a position to acquire
the franchise.” Three thousand and more
electors have just acquired it, and Boodlewraith
prohibits them from using it. The ostensible
reason for the haste is the need for electing
delegates to the Federal Convention, while
everybody knows that the Black-Labor Govern-
ment could only be driven to federate at the
point of the bayonet, and Attorney-General
Byrnes told a Sydney interviewer the other
day that Federation in Queensland was a dead
question ! 0 Lord, how long ?
A case illustrating the necessity of making
the Employers’ Liability Act apply to sailors,
comes on shortly, probably in Victoria. A
sailor engaged in Melbourne for a six months’
trip to YVestralia, &c. When leaving a port
there a number of carpenters were shipped for
the purpose of erecting cattle-barriers, the in-
tention being to convey wild cattle between
certain ports. The barriers were erected under
the captain’s supervision, but, in spite of warn-
ings, the cattle were allowed on board, broke
the barriers, and one of them gored a sailor so
severely that he was laid up for a year. If the
courts follow English decisions they will pro-
bably hold that the captain and sailor are “ fel-
low-servants,” and that accordingly the co. is
not liable, and so it will getoffseot free, although
it has practically admitted its moral liability by
offering a sum which the circumstances make
quite insufficient. The Employers’ Liability
Acts partially restrict the “fellow-servant”
doctrine, but do not apply to sailors in Victoria,
and in the provinces in which they so apply it is
very doubtful whether the provisions are not
ineffectual on the high seas for constitutional
reasons. This, perhaps, is a case where the
machinery of an Imperial Enabling Act might
be justified, if any Imperial-Australian legisla-
tion can be justified.
-*■
The S.M. Herald, a couple of days before the
opening of the local Criminal Court, delivered
itself of a “ leader ” extolling the uses of the
gaol lash. “It has been established that the
lash put down garrotting,” it asserted, with
that air of infallibility which only the partially-
informed can successful!}' exhibit. Half-an-
hour’s study of the question will demonstrate
to even a very prejudiced person that no such
fact has been established about the lash. The
evidence on the subject is claimed to prove that
garrotting declined before lash-legislation for
the offence took effect; and, if this be denied,
then most writers hold that the evidence to
hand amply proves that only to an insignificant
extent did the new legislation affect the waning
fashion of the criminal class. Further, on the
list of names to come before this particular
Criminal Court for trial were those of Edward
Crawford and others, accused of robbery with
violence, and the appearance of the Herald
article before the Court began business looked
like a direction to the Judge to apply in such
cases on conviction the lacerating powers of
the Criminal Code. The apparent nicety of
the calculation is creditable to the Herald’s
sense of timeliness, but all else about it is
obtrusively brutal.
♦
It has been enacted in Maoriland that no regis-
try office fee shall exceed 55., half-a-crown
payable by the person who gets the situation,
and half-a-crown by the employer to whom he
or she is supplied. This bursts up a profitable
and old-established swindle. The wild-cat
registry-office keeper, when times are bad and
the towns swarming with men who want work
at any price, often takes all the first week’s
wages as his fee, and goes shares with the
employer. Then at the end of the week,
or the end of the second week, the new man
is sacked, and another engaged on the same
terms, and the boss and the registry-man
divide again. In some large establishments,
when times are very bad, about one-third of
the wages-sheet is thus “whacked” between
the boss or manager and the bowelless ruffian
who runs the registry. When there are more
men available than can be used up even by this
dodge, someregistry-keepersfind them imaginary
billets at the extreme end of the country, wages
good, the men to pay their own fares. The fee
charged in each case is, so far as the registry-man
■can estimate, all the money his victim has over
and above his railway-fare, so that when he finds
out the imposture he won’t be able to come
back and knock the head off the harpy in the
office. This latter swindle is dangerous, how-
ever, and is generally tried on women or small
men who look harmless, but the device of going
shares with the boss is practised every day in
Sydney and Melbourne, and was in full blast in
Maoriland also until the new law came in force.
Now it is practically dead. The half-crown
isn’t worth dividing.
The Criminology Society has now a good oppor-
tunity to secure the release of all the sentenced
murderers, &c., in Victoria who are suffering
in health owing to their incarceration. The
Staples precedent show's that it can be done
easily, quietly and without even the principal
members of the Cabinet knowing anything
about it. The secret release of Staples
emphasises The Bulletin’s old contention that
whenever portion of a prisoner’s sentence is to
be remitted a detailed notification to that effect
should be published in the Government
Gazette. Staples was sentenced to five years
in ’93. The remarks of the Judge were
especially severe, regret being expressed that
the offence, issuing a false balance-sheet, was
only a misdemeanor and did not admit of a
higher penalty. Yet with three years served,
Staples is let loose on society, and is out of
gaol for three months before any of the public
ior even the Ministry, with the exception of
Solicitor-General Cuthbert (M.L C.) hear of it.
Dear Bulletin, —Re shearers-and-labore’rs
amalgam. During the late sitting of the A.W.U.
Conference at Ballarat the Gen. See. considered
“that something might be done for the laborers,”
and the chairman’s ruling was asked “as to
whether the manifesto agreed to included shed-
hands as well as shearers.” That doesn’t look
much like an amalgamation. Gx 8.
Song's ’Neath the Southern Cross,
The latest Australian bard to come out in book-
form is John Cash Neild, the N.S.W. politician
with the unique moustache, who talked the Jen-
nings-Dibbs Ministry to death in a nine-hours’
oration some years ago. The famous Jawbone
publishes his soul-wail in a neat green volume,
with a portrait of himself in a fierce aspect on the
front page, and a beautiful flowing signature
below. Neild, as a poet, is distinctly better than
the dreadful Sladen, but that isn’t saying much.
There is very little more originality about his
book than about the title of it. The Southern
Cross, which is a weak, straggling constellation,
and not much like a cross at the best, is the refuge
of every Australian bard who has no better flower
of imagery at command. It is a figure of speech
peculiarly Australian—at least no European bard
that The Bulletin knows of ever wrote “ Songs
’Neath the Great Bear.” And when one considers
the unspeakable vastness of the Southern Cross,
even if it isn’t much of a constellation to look
at, and the smallness of the bard who sings under
it, and the exceeding smallness of the song he sings,
Mr. Neild’s urgency in pointing out that such avery
small tune is tootled beneath, and so far beneath,
such a very large mass of blazing suns seems
grotesque. It is very like writing a par. about a
municipal meeting at Cow Flat, and heading it
“Prose written beneath the Universe.”
* * * *
J. C. Neild is obviously not a poet. He is a
mechanically accurate person who most of the
time cuts his screed into neat lengths of gum-log,
and piles it up carefully for removal, but there is
no fire in him, no energy, nothing that anyone
will ever want to remember. His first four poems
spread over 103 pages. “ Out West ” tells, in 30
long verses, how three men went forth into the
wilderness, and in the middle of it one of them
saw a vision of an inland sea, and on it an old,
old, weed-covered, barnacled ship of the Flying
Dutchman persuasion, and on the ship an old, old
man who tells, in a digression of 35 verses, a talc
which is a bad copy of Coleridge’s “ Ancient
Mariner.” Neild’s mariner also, with his glitter-
ing eye, holds one of three, and his tale is adorned
with ancient expressions such as “eftsoons ” and
the like. In this painfully new land, old, disused
statements like “eftsoons” seem out of place,
The following is a brief hunk of “ Out West” :
But for the aid of kindly blacks,
Who led us to a tiny spring,
We must have perished. We lost two
Horses that fell dead in their tracks.
The other long poems are large accumulations of
nicely-written commonplace with some common-
place in between which isn’t nicely written but
only thrown together with a shovel. Witness
this verse from “ Two Xmas Days in North Aus-
tralia ” :
Again the boisterous dance proceeds
Till the musicians nod and wink
At one another and the crowd—
They’d had by far too much to drink.
In the course of this poem “George Vivian ” is
made to rhyme with “billycan,” which is rough
on a useful bush implement. Mr. Neild is more
interesting in his sonnets because in them there is
less of him. His poem “ Morning ”is an effusion
in which he urges some unspecified infant “to
grow on, sweet babe,” and “press boldly for the
prize,” and “press onward, youth, be thy goal
noble deeds,” which is about as dull and feeble an
aposti’ophe as could be imagined. The bard who
can only tell an infant to keep on growing is of very
little use, seeing that the infant is growing anyhow,
and will continue growing just the same without
his permission—unless he gives it gin regularly.
The spectacle of J. 0. Neild in book-form
authorising an infant to grow seems unnecessary,
somehow. In his sonnet to “Evening ” the same
authority states that “The sun shall rise,” which
removes a great doubt from the public mind. A
few pages further on J. C. Neild tackles the vast,
comprehensive subject of “ Death ” in such
language as this :
I can hear the deep tread of thy footstep, O ! Death !
On my face I can feel thy lethiferous breath,
And thine arms calmly fold me, magnificent Death.
And again :
Come ! I have called thee in lone hours of midnight,
When woe insupportable hopefulness hid quite.
‘ ‘ When woe insupportable hopefulness hid quite ”
is the worst effort at rhyme this paper remembers.
* * * *
Later on the author plunges into what he calls
“ Bush Rhymes.” The first bush rhyme is
entitled “ Jim.” The second one is “ Bill.” Bush
rhyme No. 3 is “ Joe,” and the next one is “ Fan.”
The following is a sample of “Jim,” which, for
vigor, is far above the bard’s average :
Well, he stayed and stayed, and he pulled poor Jim
Back, steadily back, from the grave’s dark rim,
The doctor? A darned good sort, I call him—
You can call him what you like —
We gave him some nuggets when Jim got through.
Did I ever tell Jim ? What ! About Dru ?
What use ! AVhy, before we left the Paroo
She married a cove called Mike.
Jim was ill in a bark hut at the time, and Dru,
who married a cove called Mike, was the girl who
had promised to marry Jim, and who mashed
somebody else (doubtless Bill) in his absence. Joe,
in another poem further on, was a shepherd’s dog
in 75 verses, who ran 30 miles on three legs to
fetch the boss and four stockmen, at a crisis. In
“ The Bush Fire,” somebody, probably Dick, tells
Bill at some length how Jack carried him, under
difficult circumstances, to rescue Ann. Mr. Neild
is obviously not at home in the Bill and Jack kind
of verse, and tells his story in curt barks like this •
Or cut me a bit of tobacco—hey !
Look at that snake.
Hit him a whack with your whip, and don’t stay
To find a stake.
Harmless ? No ! That be dang—
Brown ! Just look at his fang !
His hole’s there, under that stone.
I was after a mob
Of young steers, on a cob
Out in the ranges alone !
The bard who makes an Australian bushman say
“dang” simply to find a rhyme for “fang” is
capable of making the fearsome Bill of the back-
blocks say almost anything.
* * * *
There is a lot of large “O” in Mr. Neild’s
verses, and his cries of “ O ! Hope ! ” and “ O !
Memory!” and “O! Happiness!” and “O!
Blessed state ! ” and things like that are painful
examples of abstract shriek in long metre. Still,
it may be that the author couldn’t sleep till he got
this volume off his chest, and, if so, he did well to
publish it. Suppressed poetry is bad for the
health at all times.


QELLU LAR
CASHMERE,
HOSIERY
IN
MERINO, or SILK.
VENTILATED FEET and LEGS.
New Shipment Just Opened—ls. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
These are the only practical ventilators for the feet.
People who have suffered all their lives from the incon-
venience and discomfort of perspiration readily testify to
the success of this specialty. There is a delightful free-
dom in the sensation experienced in the use of these
socks, quite foreign to other makes.
CELLULAR PYJAMAS,
DRESS SHIRT'S, TENNIS SHIRTS,
AND ALL UNDERWEAR.
Pamphlets, Price Lists, and all particulars,
CELLULAR CLOTHING DEPOT,
(New Premises) 334 George-st., SYDNEY.
D. Braiiam & Co., Sole Agents for N.S.W.
Awarded
Gold Medal,
Chicago,
1893.
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
WORLD -FAMED
Eu.ca.lypte Extract
CURES
Coujfhs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Consumption, Influenza, &c., &c.
ASK FOR
Cole mane & Sons’ Eucalypte,
And SEE that you GET IT.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Is. 6d. and 2s. Gd.
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
BKAWLIN, near COOTAMUNDRA, N.S.W.
OI
Pleasantest, coolest, most
centra 1 an d b e st- a pp oin t ed restaurants in Sydney
is the Manhattan Dining Room, situated in "he
basement of the great Equitable Building i n
George-street, Sydney. It is i„ the middle of the
busiest portion of Svdnev and 1“ ot the
a high-class establishment'with a-ood le,s P eo J
attendance, a lavish bffl of fa™ co ° k , $°od
fittings and furnishings i fare ’ and luxunou *
I c
LOMBARDIA,
,£l n,k‘TolFr R f”' dieB
Po« of Lombardia, and
Trial is asked. y
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
P * McI)OXAL7J ’ Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Messrs. D. Braham and Co. are removing
their cellular clothing business to more commo-
dious premises at 384 George-street, near G.P.O.*
A very line example of artistic ornamenta-
tion may be seen at Paling’s well-known Sydney
music warehouse. This building has been fitted
up with a beautiful ceiling of embossed zinc
worked in panels, and tinted by Phil Goatcher,
the scenic artist. The walls have been panelled
witli huge plate-glass mirrors secured by rich
mouldings and friezes of embossed zinc, and the
woodwork is artistically coloured to match the
cedmg All this magnificence was executed by
the \\ underlich Co., of Redfem, and the effect
produced is admirable.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK,
Lyceum “ Miss Decima.”
Her Majesty’s .. “ Monte Oristo.”
Royal “ The Lancashire Lass.”
Criterion “ Wanted, a Wife.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Opera House Cog-ill Bros.’Specialty Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's. Brough and Boucicault
Season.
Royal “ Land of the Moa.”
Alexandra Dan Barry Co.
Opera House Rickards’" Variety Co.
That reliable favorite, “ Ma Mie Rosette,”
is doing a week at Sydney Lyceum, and Henriot
Brownlow’s Henry IY. is the same beautifully
finished character that he has always been, and
the people who insist on exhibiting their inferior
French in the d.c. lift up their voices and allude
to him as Angry Cat, just as they did in the happy
bygone days. Miss May Pollard fills the short,
unsophisticated skirt of Rosette once more, and
dreams on the bunch of hay in the farm-yard
about how she fell through carrying refreshment to
a giddy monarch quite as well as any one could
desire. Courtice Pounds is May’s rustic lover this
time, and though he fills that character as capably
as his predecessors he does nothing to explain the
great original conundrum why May refuses to go
off with the King, especially when Brownlow fixes
her with his large, introspective eye and his
beautiful clothes, and her lover has nothing to
offer in lieu thereof save a cottage and a luvin’
’art and a low-comedy face with a pained expres-
sion on it, and a good deal of grass-seed in his
hair. Howard Vernon, Lauri, and Misses
Florence Young and Marietta Nash occupy their
old parts, and the many pleasant things this paper
said about them last time are hereby repeated in
one comprehensive ditto.
* * * •
The new series of Living Pictures is larger
and more varied, and is set in a bigger frame and
a more gorgeous background than the last one.
There is very little of the undress element in these
productions, whereas the other ones were attired
principally in a quantity of dazzling teeth and a
hope that all would yet be well, therefore the
present show is r.ot tempered by a half-formed
expectation that a large married policeman will
rush in, hiding his shocked countenance behind an
umbrella, and arrest the Pictures on the spot.
The new Pictures are also more elaborate than the
first series, and have more character in them, and
in most cases have a tale of human interest to tell,
instead of merely narrating a pair of legs. Long-
staff’s “ Breaking the News,” Kennington’s
“Adversity,” and M'Cubbin’s “Down on his
Luck ” are three out of the nineteen put on by a
lavish management which are alone more than
worth the admission money. On Saturday “ Miss
Decima” is to be produced for the very first time
in Australia, and till then the Pictures and the
bad French king pursuing his mediaeval Flossie
will probably keep the Lyceum full and a little
over.
** * *
George Darrell’s alleged comedy, ‘‘ Wanted
a Wife,” which was staged at Sydney Criterion
last Saturday, is a piece which causes sad reflec-
tions about how man was descended from a monkey
and has been a disgrace to his ancestor ever since.
It belongs to the old, sad school of funnyism
wherein the humor consists of four people being
concealed in as many different rooms, and another
hidden under a table, and one more in a box, and
all these people putting their heads out cautiously
to see if the others are gone, and shrieking dis-
mally when they find they are not gone. There is
no reason worth mentioning why they should play
hide-and-shriek in this inane fashion, save that it
is down in the directions, and they are paid to do
it. When they all discover each other no dreadful
consequence ensues, and, as the situation is quite
harmless from the beginning, their wild sprinting
back and forward is mere superfluous pedestri-
anism. Some more mirth is based on a waiter
with a disgusting sniff in his nose and a tendency
to go into unwholesome particulars about it, and
the waiter’s nose is just as interesting as that of
any plain small boy with a cold and no handker-
chief. Also, his confidential communication—
made between two sniffs —on the subject of
underclothing is not interesting but only
stupid, and the fact that Wilfred Shine hits
him on the head with a ruler whenever he
shows himself from underneath the table is
not comedy but merely assault and battery.
There is no plot in the piece—only a mechanical
gallop of automata, who have no coherent motive
because the author didn’c invent one, and the fun
consists of horse-play and bounds and yells, and
the waiter’s aforesaid nose, and the underclothing,
and the General’s ceaseless complaints about his
gout and his liver, and another funny man’s asser-
tion that he lives on “sheeps’ jimmies” and
that they are “filling.” This kind of mirth isn’t
new, and can be obtained gratis at the boiling-
down-establishment any day. There are some
good people in the piece, and one lady whose
clothes were obviously thrown at her with a
knife and fork, and some other ladies ; and some
of these people accentuate the direful woodenness
of things, and some of them wear their hair hang-
ing down their backs, and some of them go into
unpleasant detail about the waiter’s nose. The
Bulletin doesn’t like that dreadful person or his
nose, but they supply the one gleam of originality
in the show, and if they were taken out there
would be hardly anything save the boiling-down
joke left.
** * *
“ Monte Cristo,” on a scale of much
splendor, is being nightly heaved in five acts to
his doom in the pale-green, hungry sea at Her
Majesty’s. “ Monte Cristo ”is essentially a one-
man piece, and that man is Dampier, who is
the mill that grinds everything exceeding
small. Probably there is no other man in Aus-
tralia who could fill the part so well as this sterling
old actor. Even where he has nothing to do but
pine in a dungeon for 19 years he pines in a highly-
finished manner, and when he gets out and goes
on the trail of his enemies, and takes their scalps
one by one in the slow, patient maimer of a man
who has learned to be tranquil through having
nothing else to do for the best part of a generation,
he is an eloquent example of how the scalp comes
to him who waits. He doesn’t rant much, and he
doesn’t pose much in the limelight, and he doesn’t
vow vengeance to any great extent, but in a
quiet, convincing fashion he arrives (mostly
in evening dress) just the same. Dampier
has three-fourths of the glory, and a dozen
other people divide the rest among them. They
consist of a quantity of assorted bad charac-
ters, one or two good people, and some sundries.
Lesion as the principal crawling villain, and Mrs.
Marshall as the daughter of the reconstructed
banker, and Inman as a brigand in a small way of
business, are the most notable. All these people,
and a lot more, are overwhelmed by Dampier in
the long run, and, when the curtain falls for the
last time, they are only a heap of picturesque
ruins.
** * *
The military spectacle at Sydney Royal
remains as big and smoky and convincing as it
was when last reported upon, and the red glare of
battle, murder, insurrection and sudden death
shines in a lurid haze across the footlights. There
is more good, solid explosion in the “ Enemy’s
Camp ” than in any other piece of recent years,
and the amount of promiscuous free fight on moun-
tain tops and other places where it is needful to
hang on by the hair, is almost unparalleled. One
night last week, after Hazlitt had been executed
in his beautiful uniform, and Scot Inglis had
started off in his beautiful uniform to rescue the
imprisoned girl, and Plimmer, in a gold-laced suit
that must have cost at least <£B cash, went after
him and cut the bridge just as he was standing on
it, the hero went down at too sudden an angle and
bumped himself grievously against the ravine.
This is the only casualty up to date. “ The
Lancashire Lass ” is announced for Saturday.
** * *
After a brief indisposition, executed in his
usual capable fashion, John Coleman has re-
appeared at the Tivoli, and the discrepancy
between the solemnity of his countenance and the
agility of his madly-grotesque legs is on view
every night. La Belle Maie and Miss Alice
Leamar are also on the bill, so that the Tivoli is
particularly strong at present. The Cogills’ show
at Sydney Opera House is also doing well, and the
Music Hall remains closed, and gives no signs of
an early re-opening.
** * *
The new theatre which is being erected by
George Adams, in Pitt-street, Sydney, is getting
on towards completion, and Arthur Garner, who
is to have the sole direction thereof, has sailed for
London by the Warrimoo, on behalf of a bloated
syndicate, with unlimited powers to engage the
best talent to be found in Europe and America.
Mr. Garner’s long experience as a member of “ the
Firm,” and also on his own account, is a sufficient
guarantee that he will get together a first-class
show. The new theatre is intended to be the most
elegant in Australia, and, under the beneficial in-
fluences of a Freetrade tariff, the seating accom-
modation is being specially manufactured in
America, so that the local artisan may have a well-
earned rest. Mr. G. L. Goodman (“Goody”),
who has been manager in Sydney for the Firm for
more years than one can remember, and than
whom no one is more popular with both public and
profession, will be in charge of the front of the
new house.
** * *
“ The Passport,” played in Sydney a few
weeks back, is now raising the harmless, neces-
sary laugh at Melbourne Princess's. It belongs
to a somewhat ancient order of three-act farce, in
which several performers remain carefully ignor-
ant awhile of a fact always known to the audi-
ence. When the truth becomes clear to everybody,
the entertainment goes into liquidation, and the
public who supplied the capital for carrying on
the business are left in doubt as to whether they
got a fair return for their money. There is
nothing to dwell upon when the curtain falls. One
may take away crumbs of food for reflection from
a musical comedy, or a variety show. Sad reflec-
tion is perhaps better than none at all, and a
catchy air can be hung on to. “ The Passport ”
is as unsubstantial as a puff of smoke, or
an elephant’s breath. Fortunately the B. and
B. company appear to advantage in this
vaporous thing. Mrs. Brough contributed a pretty
sketch of a feather-headed lady who mislays her
passport and everything else she handles, except
her husband, and she nearly loses him likewise.
There are many such charming women about, so
wrapped-up in themselves and their nice clothes
that they hardly know when their husbands are
hugging them, and are apt to wonder where the
dear man has got to all the while that they are
sitting on his knee and playfully tapping his bald
head with a fruit-knife. Boucicault goes one
better than this with a clever caricature of the
man addicted to bursts of matrimonial misgiving.
At short intervals the gifted Dion B. leans his head
upon his hand, stares into vacancy, and rumi-
nates as to whether he would have married
his wife if he had been better informed on
the subject ere making the fatal plunge. Cecil
Ward is a walking gentleman husband, who didn’t
bigamise, as supposed, and Dorrington is a long
incoherent Gussie, who wanders aimlessly in and
out of the story. A tradition of Dorrington’s
volubility pervades the scene, but he never gets a
chance to unloose his flow of language. As soon as
he breaks into a preliminary stutter he gets
hustled into an adjoining room, or shut up by
accident, and his conversation remains dead to the
world. Young Majeroni, as a Russian police-
officer, with designs upon Robert Brough’s
stomach, scores a success. He suspects the gentle-
man of carrying a false corporation for the
concealment of stolen goods, and his manner is so
threatening that Brough tries to save his interior
from insult by lying on it. “Fedora” follows
“ The Passport,” probably on Saturday.
** * *
“Ten Nights in a Bar-Room” is still
wafting warm, spirituous odours across the foot-
lights of Melb. Alexandra, and well-filled Houses
appear to hang upon every brealr+Jm
this great temperance drama. The death of little
Eva may also have something to do with the im-
provement in business. The angel child, m this
instance, happens to be a little Mary, who gets
cut down like a flower by a nobbier-glass heaved
at her unsober parent by a scorbutic pub-pro-
prietor, but her real name is Eva nevertheless.
She sings a temperance song on her death-bed,
after which a number of angels call for her
small, white soul, just as though she were
the young person in “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
Meanwhile, Augustus Glover, her father, suffers
hbrribl.y from the effects of liquor. A green mon-
key with a scarlet tail gambols rounds his twitch-
ing legs, sjiakes nestle against his bare chest,
and poor father gets the d.ts. again for all they
are worth. A critical audience is not expected at
the Alexandra, therefore our old friend Glover
deserves particular credit for his artistic perfor-
mance. The same thing done under more fashion-
able conditions would bring a considerable amount
of glory to this large, robust, versatile actor.
-X- * -X- X-
“ The Land of the Moa, ” at Melb. lloyal,
is not quite the same disjointed panorama that
Sydney saw, although the points of difference are
not worth mentioning. This production, like the
original, consists of substantial scenery and
Maori shrieks, mingled with gall in the form of
dialogue. The plot opens in a sufficiently human
spirit. A nautical uncle, drinking rum hot with
sugar and lemon in it, desires a certain fair
young Mavis to become a barmaid and pour
long beers down the customers’ backs. She
refuses, and is carried aboard the lugger
of a Black Angel, and turned adrift among
the Maoriland mountains. A rising author
—one of The Bulletin’s numerous contributors,
no doubt—spends his time in trying to rescue
Mavis, also venerable James Cathcart, disguised
in thick streaks of paint and pretending to be a
cannibal chief, takes compassion on the maid. '
Finally the chief’s daughter pushes the Black Angel
down a sulphur hole in the Pink Terraces of yore,
and the drama is destroyed by an earthquake.
Many incomprehensible surprises occur in the
meantime. Savages chase white folk, who chase
the savages in their turn, through many changes
of scenery. Miss Maud Williamson hap-
pens freely, sometimes alone, and often
accompanied by a nut-brown lover. Likewise
a half-caste ballet and an unintentionally comic
war-dance are thrown into the expensive farrago,
but why all these incidents occur, and what they
mean when they come to pass, are mysteries
locked- in the deep bosom of the management.
The earthquake and eruption offer atonement for
a good deal. An excellent display of fireworks,
assisted by loud reports from the crater, are not to
be despised. Less imposing spectacles have suf-
ficed to fill the Royal for three or four weeks ;
therefore, “ The Land of the Moa ” is not unlikely
to flourish.
Joe Darling, the left-hander of the
Australian Eleven batsmen, went in for South
Australia in her first inning's, in the match
with hew South Wales, when two wickets
were down for 0, and the bowlers were smilino-
But afterGiffen left at 3 4) Darling, with the aid
ottii.il, the bowling in such a knot that Gar-
rett, m desperation, put honeymooner Iredale on
—unavailingly, Darling played faultless cricket
tili he reached 121. His first big score was 252
when 15 years old, for Prince Alfred College
against St Peters He didn’t begin interpro-
vincial cricket till the season ’93-’94, when he was
24 years old, but that beginning was remarkably
successful. Last season his best performances
were 117 and 37. not out in S. Aus. VEnZd •
and 74 and 50 in the final test-match. He has
made many centuries in club cricket; the Saturday
before he came over to paste the N.S.W.
he scored 120. He plays with the Adelaides—
Giffen s club-is married, and in business, like
Syd. Gregory with a sports-depot. He is a
plucky, hardy batsman, and though his game is
sound, he can lift ‘‘soft stuff” out of the g giound
for five every time he gets the chance. He never
showed his mettle to better advantage than when
he played in the fourth test match for Aus v
Eng. Johnny Briggs had just got Iredale and
Gregory off successive balls, so Darling had to
ace the hat-tnck-a task for’a beginner! nerves
Briggs s first ball was a snorter, but Darling came
bank and stopped it with his knuckles. Then he
stayed there, making an invaluable 31.
Ciem HiH’s fine innings (206, not out) in
the match S. Australia v. N.S. Wales fhis siVm’c
total was but 400) is not his first big feat Tin ee
years ago as a 15-year-old schoolboy, he put up
300, retired, for Prince Alfred (Adelaide! CnlW?
against St. Peters. When 17 he scored 91 ?
hi! 18th b-°thd Ad u kide a " ilinst Hindmarsh. On
his 18th birthday he registered 150 (not out) and
second mnmgs, 56, agafnst Stoddart’s EnSmen
-Peel, by the way, advised him to drop wicket
keeping and solely develop his batting. After the
English match Hill made 106 (not fut)'in North
Adelaide v. Norwood. This vpar tof.,;i i c,rt .
N.S.W. in Adelaide,
agamst y.c,. He and Darling are the ’only t wo
Australia who'ean beeallXT
.oi d^^T^row*&s yle rf
& iircJsriKF*
At Poverty Point .
A severe illness accounted for Marie Bister’s retirement
into silence after her one appearance (as Maritana) with
ttie Carl Rosa Co. When she got up from her sick bed
Miss Bister found her voice so much “ off ” that she can-
celled all the concert engagements on her little list"
Another illness and a throat operation put the unlucky
little woman further hack into the shade. Now that she
is strong again (with her voice “ better than ever,” she
says) Marie Bister promises to get a good show in' Eng-
land. Sir Joseph Barnby, shortly before his death, heard
her in “ Sing, Sweet Bird,” and was so delighted that he
got the composer, Ganz, to hear her rattle through the
ballad again next day. Ganz endorsed Barnby’s opinion
by adding a number of Bister’s bird trills to his original
music. Also, he declared her method of voice-production
to be “ perfect,” and offered to coach her gratis whenever
she might feel disposed to seek his advice. At latest
dates Bister had scored a big success in a Lyric Club con-
cert, the audience of somewhat languid fashionables being
so much taken by the lady from Australia, bai Jove! that
she was asked to sing again. Subsequently, at supper
the “ star ” vocalist was the guest of the evening, and
chairman Horace Ledger (of the Era) predicted great
things of her. Bister seems to have got a footing among
the right people.
A competent London musical critic, discussing a ballad
concert at the Queen’s Hall, deals with two or three
artists known to Australia : “Those whose singing pleased
me most were Miss Ada Crossley and Mr. Jack Robertson.
Miss Crossley sang Walthew’s ‘Gleaners’ Slumber Song’
with much charm and refinement. . . . Miss Belle
Cole’s songs were received with applause. . . . Miss
Evangeline Florence sang F. Cowan’s two songs, ‘ Love
Lies Asleep in the Rose ’ and ‘ The Swallows,’ with con-
siderable taste. I, however, would like to point out to
Miss Florence that the fact of her being able to take an P
in alt does not mean that she can sing well. Far from it.
Singing is an art, not a trick; but singing Fin alt is a
trick, and not a sample of the art of vocalisation.” The
men who spread butter on imported concert singers for
the Australian daily press swore that Belle Oole was the
rarest contralto on earth, and Evangeline’s ur!sympathetio
high notes were the perfection of soprano singing.
The rumor current that Florence Young intends shortly
to visit England has been authoritatively denied.
Nellie Farren and her husband are re-united after an
estrangement of 20 years.
Patti says she has Australian offers, but appears to
doubt whether she is yet old enough.
Signor Lardelli, of Sydney, has been appointed a pro-
fessor of singing at Blaekheath Conservatoire of Music.
According to rumor, he owes this success to the inter-
vention of a lady whose sister he had taught in Sydney.
Lardelli is also to compose some pieces for the Prince of
Wales Theatre, where Roland Cunningham is gaining
experience in “ Gentleman Joe.”
Boothby’s operatic dialogue not having proved ideal, an
ordinary hack-writer was at latest providing Gov. Robin-
son’s operetta with a libretto.
Miss Rose Cavendish, who has just been brought before
the London public in the Ella Russell libel-suit, is none
other than Australia’s old friend Rose Albu. Miss Russell
considered her reputation damaged through her name on
the programme being sandwiched in between Rose Albu
and Amy Sherwin. She wanted to be either at the top or
the bottom, and because she was not put there Percy
Norcutt, musical agent and editor, had to pay £lOO.
Ararat (Vic.) Town Hall was formerly a cattle and pig-
market, and a parsimonious council permits it to
endure as a relic of past glory, the cobwebs, in many
parts, not having been removed since the days when the
pigs used to grunt their welcome to the borough-inspector.
The Orangemen have now erected an opposition hall, but
as no R.C. was allowed to work upon it the Pope’s brigade
shun the edifice as a thing unclean. In fact, so far do
they carry their resentment that even Maggie Moore and
Holloway- suffered during their recent season.
Tenor Tapley has only just torn himself away from Aus-
tralia. He left for London per Oruba last week.
Monkhouse and Bradfield are playing together in “ The
Artist’s Model,” despite the fat comedian’s wrathful vow
that he would never be seen in “Braddy’s” company
again. Also the beauteous Ryley, Maud Hobson, and
Decima Moore are in the same piece.
Henry r Irving told an Australian in London the other
day that he had really made up his mind for a tour in this
country before he definitely retired from the stage.
The moral influence of the “ drammer ” is gratifyingly
shown at Melb. Alexandra, where Dan Barry and co. are
putting in “Ten Nights in a Bar-room,” a play which
powerfully illustrates the demoniacal characteristics of
Derrink. The cheap and impressionable audiences groan,
hoot, applaud and perspire with the greatest enthusiasm
during the progress of the acts, and between whiles rush
the adjacent pubs., and flood themselves with liquor more
or less accursed. The temperance drama should have no
intervals, and should close one minute after the pubs,
shut.
Melbourne gallery-goers patronised “The Notorious
Mrs. Ebbsmith,” but the d.c. people studiously absented
themselves, probably not liking the public attention drawn
to their exposed wish-bones and shoulder-blades by the
reflections of “ Mad Agnes ” on low-neck dressing.
A most realistic touch is lent to Duke Boucicault’s
gouty limp in “ Mrs. Ebbsmith,” at Melb., by reason of an
attack of sciatica which is at present troubling the come-
dian.
Pro. : There are not at present half-a-dozen shows “on
the road ”in N.S. \V. The “ depression ”in the profession
has never been so terrible as at present. Another gigantic
benefit in aid of worthy out-of-shop “pros.” would be a
heaven-sent blessing.
One of VV. and M.’s fixtures “ahead” is “The Trip to
Chinatown,” New York’s burlesque comedy success of
last year. The entire American co. which spread itself
over the original production is to be imported also. An
Australian co. is not equal to a prolonged wrestle with
the subtleties of Amurkan humor.
J. C. Bain, the Q. “ comic vocalist,” appears for a short
season with Harry Rickards, before leaving for England
to try his luck on the music-hall stage. Bain used to keep
a tobacconist shop in Barcaldine a few years ago, but
gave it up when he began to get kudos as an amateur
comique.
A Capuchin priest named Bambini died suddenly in
Sydney the other day. Memories of “ Tambour Major ”
and Johnny Wallace—Bambini, are you there ?
T. Mandeno Jackson, who graduated from Allan’s Melb.
music-shop to the concert platform, and who toured Aus-
tralia with the Belle Cole Concert Co., is getting on
admirably in London. Stockwell has not been so much
heard of lately. Both these singers, with Lennnone and
George Clutsam, owe much of their English success to Amy
Sherwin, who has become a most noted London hostess.
“ The Gateway,” a poetical song written by H. C. Cogh-
lan and composed by organist Turner, goes very well in
Melbourne, a first consignment of 500 copies from the
London publishers having been sold right away from
Glen’s. Ida Osborne tried “The Gateway” at a Melb.
Exhibition concert last winter, with an encore result. It
travels on the “Holy City” ticket and has a pretty,
haunting refrain.
Melb. Aok gives 17in. of space to a dull story of the plot
of “ Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith,” but the yarn isn’t even a
plain statement of facts. According to this long-winded
critic, “The fourth act brings Sybil Cleeve, the wife of
Lucas, and Agnes together, the former coming to appeal
to the latter to relinquish her husband.” The appeal, as
it happens, is just the other way round. Agnes has
already renounced Lucas Cleeve, and the wife comes to
ask her to reassert her influence to bring the man back to
his blessed career.
Prof. Heller, writing from South Africa, says the only
things which catch on there are circuses and semi-religious
shows.


-THE—
SYDNEY FURNISHING HOUSE,
175 PITT STREET
(next King Street).
Artistic
House
Furnishers.
J.W. CLIFF,
Jun , Si Co.
DINING-
ROOM
SUITES
AT
£l4 14s.
Frames made of
best Tasmanian
Blackwood, and
covered with best
Skins.
BEDROOM
SUITES
In Solid Walnut,
£l3 133.
(Complete,).
Economical
House
Furnishers.
J, W, CUFF,
Juni Si Co.
MILES T, CARROLL & CO.,
Mining and Finance Brokers, Va uutors. ti'C.,
PRACTICAL & IiELI ABLE FINANCIAL ADVISERS
IN
STOCK, SHARES, OR REAL ESTATE.
Trust Money ailvantageous'y Invested. Best
Interest and .Security obtained.
Experts report on Mines throughout Australia.
70 <|nccn-st., Melbourne. [Telephone 1603.
A
GENUINE
CAW N PORE KHAKI
RIDING TROUSERS.
Post ft' e to any Pare* 1 Post Office in Queensland or New
South Wales on receipt of P. 0.0. or St; nips value 9/6.
This is a peifeet mated 1 for Station ami Bush Wear,
and is absolutely unshrinkable. JUMPERS of same
materia], post free, 11 6. State height, chest, waist, seat,
and inside leg measures. PIKli KUOS, Bi isbaue.
The Wild-Cat Column,
The Bank of North Queensland has made a new
departure. Instead of laying itself out for short period
fixed deposits on the old system under which the banks
took money for terms varying from three months to three
years, and invested it where they often couldn’t get at it
for seven years, and trusted to Providence that there
might be no rush of withdrawals, it now sells 4J/> per cent,
debentures fixed for ten years, the money to be repayable
thereafter solely at the bank's convenience. This means
a great economy in one direction; as the debenture-holders
can’t rush the bank at a sudden crisis there is no need to
keep any reserve lying idle to meet withdrawals. There-
fore, money borrowed at 4} per cent, on interminable
debentures is much cheaper than ordinary deposits at 4
per cent. But in these days of falling interest anv bank
which pledges itself to pay 4$ per cent, for ten years ties
a big and dangerous millstone round its own neck. The
value of money may go up to 5 per cent., in which case it
will have made a good bargain, and it may fall to 2), which
will mean a heavy loss. And, seeing that the B.N.Q. earns
only an uncertain £1 4s. per cent, for its shareholders, and
keeps that on hand to cover depreciation, and that it could
easily call up more capital at the same cheap rate, the idea
of offering 4£ per cent, certain on £50,000 of debenture-
money seems grotesque. If the bank can offer that rate
of interest to anybody, why not call up £50,000 more capi-
tal, and pay the 4£ per cent, thereon ? It is a long
time since the shareholders have seen anything like that
dividend, and they would probably rush for it. As matters
stand, the B.N.Q. offers the public £2250 a year for the use
of £50,000, while at present its shareholders get nothing a
year for the use of £200,000, which is a one-sided situation
somehow. Moreover, the bank pawns its uncalled capital
as security, so it will probably find that while the deben-
tures last it can’t call up any of the said capital, except
for the purpose of paying the debenture-holders, and, as
it can’t pay them for 10 years, it is quite likely that the
B.N.Q.’s £250,000 of uncalled capital has been put beyond
its own reach for all that time for the sake of borrowing
£50,000 at exorbitant interest.
* * * *
The “ Flood Estate trouble ” is now reported to
be about settled. Said trouble arose through the National
Building Society (Sydney) buying a piece of land with a
£OOOO mortgage on it, selling it at a profit to small buyers
on time-payment, and taking their purchase-money with-
out making any provision for paying off its own purchase-
money. Therefore, when the buyers of allotments had
paid off their liability, or part of it, to the society, they
found that the society didn't really possess the land, and
couldn’t give a title, and that the previous owners were
about to sell it by auction for their unsatisfied mortgage,
in which case the buyers would have lost their land, their
houses and their money, all in one act. The difficulty,
however, as already mentioned, is being “ settled,”
though the National Society’s idea of a settlement is
rather primitive. It has borrowed £5OOO on the estate
from another society, therefore it still hasn’t got the pro-
perty, and has merely got extra time and a differ-
ent creditor. The buyers presumably will go on paying
their instalments as before, and if the National has no
better luck at lifting this mortgage than it had with the
last one the only change is that the people who have spent
their life's savings in making homes on the luckless estate
will be sold up a little later on by the new mortgagee in-
stead of being sold up now by the old one. The difficulty
is postponed, certainly, but the postponement throws no
new light on the morality of selling land without any
certainty about being able to deliver it, and taking money
for a property which the seller doesn’t actually possess,
and may never possess if things happen to go wrong with
him.
• • * •
The Standard Bank reports that it is still pulling
nard against the stream. Last half-year showed a loss of
£1513 against a loss for the previous half of £4908.
Against this, however, it takes credit for £10,161 interest
which was previously written off, or carried to suspense
account, or something, and which is now carried back
again, and thereby reduces the total balance on the wrong
side of the sheet to £9330. The co. doesn’t state that it
has actually collected this £lO,OOO odd, or that it feels
sure the amount will be collected ; it is merely stated that
it is credited on the strength of “ counsel’s opinion,” so
apparently it is passed as an abstract point of law rather
than because the money is actually there. As abstract
p lints of law are unsaleable this item isn’t so com-
forting as it might be. The last £4OOO of the
reserve seems to have been written off to cover
losses, so further depreciation must come out of the
shareholders’ funds. The Standard has reduced
the interest on its fixed deposits to 2£ per cent., and
thereby saves nearly £13,000 a year, and even that saving
and much economy in the management doesn’t keep its
head above water. Its total investments are set down at
£1,300,000, and they yield all round a shade over 2£ per
cent, gross. Assuming that they are lent out at a nominal
5 per cent, all round, this means that £656,000 worth are
d ad—temporarily or permanently. If they are supposed
to be lent out at an average of 7} per cent., which is
much more probable, that means that over £860,000 of
the alleged funds are so utterly stranded that the interest
is unobtainable and the principal more or less ditto. And
that would mean that all the paid-up capital and £300,000
of the deposits are gone aground.
* * * *
A correspondent draws The Bulletin’s atten-
tion (good old phrase) to the advt. in the S.M. Herald of
a firm called W. F. Coxon and Co., Limited. Said firm
seems to be in the time-payment, cheap macintosh, con-
certina, and all-sorts business ; it takes slow instalments,
and promises quarterly dividends at the rate of 6 per cent,
per annum. Also, it advertises for travellers with the sig-
nificant addition, “all employes must be shareholders.”
Which moves Tub Bulletin to ask, without insinuating
anything, the following few questions, which Messrs.
Coxon and Cc. are at liberty to answer (at not
too great length) in this column (1) How many
shares at how much a share has a man to take in
order to get a billet worth how much a week ? (2) How
long does he keep his billet on an average after he has
paid for his shares? Does he ever go out and thereby
make room for another man who will take up more
shares ? Doef, he generally stay long enough to get back
in salary what he put in as share capital, or does he gene-
ra! ly stay longer, or does he generally stay not so long?
(3) Does he get back his invested capital when he leaves ;
if not, when does he get it back ? (4) What sort of a voice
has he, as a shareholder, in the management of the con-
cern. (5) How many shares are there in the co. ; what is
the paid-up capital; what price are the shares selling at,
or are they selling at any price in particular ; and who
manages the co. ? In these hard times a lot of men will
risk their little savings in almost anything in order to get
a billet, and a concern which shoves its shares into circu-
lation in this semi-compulsory fashion naturally excites
interest.
* * * *
The Equity Trustees and Executors Co. (Melb.)
nas made a profit for the half-year of £483, and, as the
dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum amounts to
£625, and £lB is written off furniture, the result is that
£l6O had to be taken from the previous balance to make
up these amounts. Last half-year the profits were £5BO,
and the dividend of £625 was made up then also by taking
the difference out of the cash on hand. The Equity
Trustees Co. has been in existence for eight years, and in
that period it has accumulated the lamentable reserve of
exactly £750. In the present half-year the net profit
doesn t seem to equal the amount received as interest on
its own invested capital, and the trustee business appears
to be wholly unprofitable. Meanwhile, the desire to pay
5 per cent, dividends under all circumstances is a thing
which the shareholders may be very sorry for by-and-bye.
* * * *
Re the charge brought against the Citizens’ Life
Assurance 00. that, in its industrial branch, it makes no
provision for liabilities upon policies on the lives of
children under 10 years, the actuary, in a letter to
Sydney Telegraph, admits that this is the case. The re-
port also states that no provision is made for liabilities
under the new endowment policies (table F.). The
actuary says that the point re children’s policies is unim-
portant because “ from any point of view the liability
could not be large.” Probably it isn’t large, but it exists,
and it isn’t provided for. And as the assets are only
£152,949, and the liabilities, even after making no pro-
vision for the policies above-mentioned, are set down at
£148,095, said liability only need equal £4900, which isn’t
so very much, to make the assurance fund of the Citizens’
industrial department insolvent, unless money is taken
out of the shareholders’ capital to make good the
deficiency. Under these circumstances it would be much
better to state exactly what this unprovided-for liability
really amounts to, and show the exact degree of its un-
importance.
* * « *
The Victoria Insurance Co. has made a profit
for the half-year of £7020, and it expends £8987 in paying
a div. at the rate of about 36 percent, per annum. There-
fore to keep up its gigantic div. it takes over £l9OO out of
the funds. The Victoria is a large, solid, and prosperous
concern. But even a big and solid concern shouldn’t
hunger after 36 per cent. divs. quite so violently as this,
especially as the business is practically stationary, the
reserve hasn’t been added to for a number of years, and a
possibility is ahead of heavy depreciation in the freehold
assets which may mop up a lot of the contingency account.
* * * *
Apropos the rejection by one vote of the Wages
Attachment Bill in Vic. Assembly (Yes, Assembly) and
the cry that the poor man’s credit would be stopped if
the Bill became law, it is notable that even now the Vic.
civil servant can’t be garnisheed, yet he gets as much
credit as he wants, and a goorl deal more than is good for
him. Besides, the fraud-summons procedure is an effec-
tive check on systematically-dishonest debtors. Gar-
nisheeing wages is a petty, but intolerable, form of
traders’ tyranny. Even the British conscience was
shocked at its existence, and stopped it"; but then Vic.
Assembly doesn't pretend to be as studious of the interests
of the people as the British House of Lords.
* * * *
Thu Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
reports, in a glad tone of voice, that it) loss for the past
half-year is only £2616, which makes about £15,000 gone
in 18 months. This institution recently got a reduction
of deposit interest to 2.J per cent., and the new rate was
in operation for three months of the half-year, otherwise
the loss would have been £7500. If things remain the
same next half there will, on the 2J4 per cent, interest
basis, be a profit of 2200 or so, and as the bank’s affairs
don’t seem to be getting worse just at present this
glad result may be arrived at. The A.D. and M. has paid
off one-tenth of its deposits (about ' 68,000) in one lump,
which is something in its favor. Against this its reserve
fund has gone bung, its assets are admittedly, even on
paper, nearly £19,000 less than its liabilities, and it is only
earning £1 10s. and some odd coppers per cent, on its
alleged funds. Therefore the amount of its dead or
comatose assets must be something enormous. The bank
itself admitted lately that £73o,ooo—equal to more than
half its advances—were paying no interest, so what the
real worth of that £730,000 of paper values may be just
now is a thrilling conundrum. Also, the rest of the
advances are clearly not yielding 4 per cent, all round, so
what their present value may be is another conundrum.
Still, if the institution begins, as anticipated, to realise
even a small profit, it will doubtless overtake its losses
some time or other.
* * * *
The Mortgage Guarantee and Mercantile Finance
Corporation of N.S.4V. has made a loss of £479 for the
half-year. The previous half it lost £B9O, and the one
before it lost £576. Roughly speaking, this concern
makes nothing a year on its own capital of £34,030, and,
apparently, its deposits and other moneys are so carefully
invested that they are a dead loss of about 3 per cent, per
annum.
* * * •
The chairman of the Balmain New Ferry Co.
writes, at much too great length for publication, to point
out that the apparent discrepancies in the balance-sheets
and other matters to which this paper drew attention
were all satisfactorily explained at the annual meetings.
This is quite possible, but when, to quote a single
example, a co. declares a dividend of £342, and the next
balance-sheet shows a dividend paid of £4lO, it should at
least account for the discrepancy. A sheet which is unin-
telligible in many particulars, unless the reader can
remember all the lengthy explanations given at a series
of meetings, is of very little use.
» * * »
About the saddest and most candid boom-tale
yet told was that narrated the other day by the Perpetual
Land and finance Co. (Melb.). The co., some years back,
bought a "property in Moray-street, Emerald Hill, for
£45,000, payable by instalments. When it had paid
£32,125 it offered to sacrifice this amount and give the
property back free if the sellers would only accept it and
call things square ! But as it wasn’t then worth anything
like the £13,000 still owing the offer was refused with
contumely. Then the Perpetual Co. offered to throw in
£7700 worth of city property, which meant that it was
willing to give £39,825 and the £45.000 property to be rid
of the £45,000 liability, but the sellers didn’t think the
said property even worth £6175, and again they refused.
Next, the Perpetual threatened to go into liquidation, and
the vendors were so terrified at the idea of having to take
tie land back at any price that they knocked off £1875 of
their claim, and reduced the interest, and gave more time
for payment. Said the Perpetual Land Co\chairman :
“This company’s losses would touch the heart of anyone
but a vendor of Moray-street property. I can only say
now that the shareholders and directors were idiots, and
1 was one of them.”
* * * *
J. B. Davies, brother of the acquitted and certi-
ficated Matthew, was absolved, the ot her day, by Vic. Full
Court from the statutory obligation to pay 7s. in the £,
and is duly whitewashed,of £593,600 of liabilities. J. B.
Davies never was a rich man except on paper. He was
one of the crowd which owned the Freehold Investment
Co., and that awful concern, according to the liquidators’
report, during the last 2}4 years of -its life made a loss of
£50,000, yet paid £llO,OOO in dividends and professed to
carry large sums to an alleged reserve. Its alleged profits
were simply paper, and its dividends were, in effect, paid
out of the deposits. Yet the law has apparently decided
th ’ there was nothing about the Freehold Investment
Co which it could complain of. Judge Molesworth rb- :
tused J. B. Davies’s certificate, but the Full Court over-
rules Molesworth and grants the boomer an uncoj*<Htional
release on the ground that his fearful company
wasn’t wrecked by paying £llO,OOO in dividends
when there were no profits to pay it out of, but
was simply overtaken bv misfortune or the act of God or
something like that. Also, the same Full Court went out
of its way to state that J. B. Davies acted as “ any
prudent man might have done ” when he incurred a call
liability of £453,000 with nothing like that sum to pay it
out of. Considering that the uncalled capital was the
principal security of the creditors, and that it was allowed
to appear to the public as a solid, reliable asset, and that
the public was invited to put its money into the Freehold
Investment curse partly on the ground that it was
secured by all this mass of uncalled capital, and consider-
ing that J. B. Davies must, as a sane man, have known
this and must have also known that his share of the
alleged security (about one-third of the whole) was mostly
bcrns -considering these things, how does the morality
of "the business stand in the Full Court’s idea, saying
absolutely nothing about the morality of the Freehold
Co itself ? The Full Cou t deliberately records its opinion
that a man who undertook to pay £453,606 if called upon,
when he couldn’t do it or anything like it, was a
“ prudent ” and careful person. Will it also state that he
was a perfectly honest and honorable person, seeing that
other people were led to risk their money on his promise
to pay, and that he must have known they were doing so ?
* * * *
Silverton Tramway (8.H.) is a fat property. In
’95 30 p.c. of its earnings met ex’s. As bigger traffic is
expected this year, the stock has jumped ±l.
« * * *
S.A. railway and Silverton tram people, afraid
of a rival N.S.W. Barrier rail, are fixing up a long ore-
carrying contract with the sulphide corporation, owners
of the Central. The N.S.W. rail is a fine bogey to cut
rates with.
* • * •
Pinnacles Amalgamated (8.H.), wanting work-
ing capital, is to sell 66,500 forfeited shares at Is. net. A
Melb. broking firm has first call on the parcel, and it will
shortly start to play with the market—and the public,
which bites every time as it loves a cheap silver scrip to
fool with.
* * * *
Sunlight fll.M. Co., Hillgrove, for 12 months’
works —10,668 tons, 48380 z. ; value ±16,995 —an average
of a shade over lOdwt. per ton. Yet all has gone in work-
ing expenses. A little better ore and better concentration
would give this co. regular divs., which it deserves as the
reward of six years’ work.
* * * *
“ Splendid gold has been struck in No. 5. shaft
of Tindal’s mine at a depth of 30 feet. No. 3 shaft has
also a reef carrying good gold” says the wire. The
market does not respond. The public are full up of
Tlittial’s. It has had several small, short shoots of gold,
and takes all the gold in one to find that of another. It
has plenty of stone, a battery, and regular oalls. All it
wants is more gold.
* * * *
The Eleanora mine, at Hillgrove, is now run by
a man capable of handling it. Jolly, formerly of the
Junction and once manager at Nymagee, has put in the
finest concentrating plant in N.S.W., and is sending away
large quantities of calcined concentrates worth ±36 a ton.
So far, he finds the 30-heads quite enough for the mine,
on which there are 60 new heads that have never been
used and are not likely to be for a long time to come.
Whose mistake ?
• * * •
Ructions are promised at a coming B. H. mine-
meeting over a big sharebroker acting as director. Held
that no man should be in a position to gain first news and
abet market-rigging to the disadvantage of ordinary
holders.
* * * •
Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo, with a <£305,500 div.
record, is just now much out of sorts. Late in ’94 the
rich reef cut out and calls began. And after a spell of
shelling-out scripper3 most ungratefully abused the 29
years’ mine-manager for not having a new reef handy
wherewith to stoke their maws. At the recent half-yearly
meeting he slanged them back to some purpose. Millings
from the three mines have averaged 4dwts. (5711 loads for
15570 z.). Better prospects this term, especially in No. 3
mine, from which, With more scope for breaking the 650 ft.
level reef, yields should become payable. Over 35
tribute parties, on 45 and 50 per cent, basis, operate in the
Johnson.
New Red White and Blue Consolidated, mostly
in Lansell’s grab, has div’d ±112,500 since July, ’9O. Past
half’s milling—ll,Bs4 loads for 52960 z. 14dwt. ; divs.,
±9OOO. Quantity of pay-crushing dirt in sight talks of
divs. for long to come.
Pearl, last half, barring one div., wisely put its
profits into prospecting the 80it. thick extension of the
Red White and Blue spurs met with at 550 ft. in its eastern
ground. Trials encourage the belief that this big forma-
tion will prove payable when thoroughly developed, and
if this happens the Pearl will indeed be a beautiful div.
gem. Bi-annual wash, 3400 tons for 10420 z. 19dwt. 12gr.
• * * *
The Leader has spread itself to boom Sheep
Station, and, consequently, David Syme is the best-cursed
man in Gippsland just now. There are two decent reefs
in the district, but the rest are nothing but squibs, and
most of the magnificent yields—6oz. and upwards—are
worked up on the edifying principle of averages : “ If a
bucketful of stone goes lOdwt., what will a ton go?”
Practically there is no telling what the ton will go,
because it is unprocurable. Tucker is very dear at Sheep
Station bread Is. a loaf. Carriers take a man through
from Bairnsdale for ±l, but will cart hi-m back for 2s. 6d.
Numbers of men are busy in the surrounding creeks,
trying to earn the half-crown.
An old and experienced digger, back from Sheep
Station, and much disgusted, replied to a Bulletin man
in Melbourne ; “ Oh, yes, I had some blanky luck. I got
three quid for pulling a dashed dead Chow out of a shaft.”
* » * »
Pioneer Hydraulic, Mitta Mitta, Vic.’s first
hydraulic sluicing success, eked out one sd. div. last half.
Lack of water cruelled work for nearly three months.
* * * *
Linton, a Vic. alluvial thriller of the 50’s,
which has yielded ±500,000 worth of gold, will shortly
need an obituary unless something happens. Field
deserted save by two little co’s, and neither is attempt-
ing to test the deep levels. Linton ought to be trans-
planted to W.A., where country with its prospects would
be a godsend.
Democrat, 100 tons for 4980 z. 12dwt. The one
cheerful spot in Glen Wills, Vic. By the way, the United
Brothers, the alleged big thing of the district, has not
made a div. appearance yet, and they do say the free ore
is nearly played out. So the profit chance does not look
too lively when the co. has to tackle its refractory stone.
Yet holders have the neck to ask 355. for their scrip, with
buyers at 20s.
J * * * *
Berry Consols, Smeaton’s (Vic.) boss alluvial
mine, has paid its 100th 2s. div. Total, ±245,000 ; average
weekly yield, 300 oz.
An excited individual charged into the Mining
Department, Melb., the other day, with his hands full of
specimens that he had picked up in a Little Bourke-street
sewage-trench. He wanted a lease on the spot, and evi-
dentfy expected to float his mine during the afternoon.
The geological authorities pointed out that the quartz
“ appeared*to be a broken-off portion of an original driftal
deposit accidentally caught up by the older volcanic flow.”
But the disgusted discoverer didn’t understand, and has
been dropping in every day since, with fresh specimens
and wilder appeals to be allowed to mine a great hole in
the centre of Smellville.
***.-*
A Melb. man has been worrying Mines Minister
Foster for permission to’ dig for gold in Sullivan’s lane, off
Little BouAte-strget. Female prospectors have been
striking payable gold there for nearly half a century.
• * * *
Brunswick (Vic.) gasworks having fallen into
M. L.C, “Johnny” Wallace, for his ±44,000 advance, are
to be offered to the Britishers, at a price.
* * * *
South Star, Ballarat, six months’ total—9o34
tons for 46830 z sdwt. 18grs, ; divs., ±6OOO. Enough stone
in sight to pay back the ±60,000 odd sunk in the mine;
560 ft. of payable stone proved at 910 ft. level; stope imme-
diately above the main level carries a 40ft. body, and at
870 ft. there is an enormous mass of fair grade quartz.
Therefore, the Scuth looks like hustling the neighboring
Star of the East for Ballarat’s quartz premiership. Fly
in the amber, though, is the 61 p.c. royalty squeezed from
the South—s p.c. by the Star of the East on an old agree-
ment clause, that, it is alleged, was never intended for
enforcement; while the old Gynding Star ground land-
lords (with another 30 years “ life ”) extort 1) p.c. tribute.
South is to add a battery to its plant, thereby saving 2 6 a
ton milled. M.L.A. Vale, one of Vic’s keenest mining
men, has chaired the South since its start, and ditto for
many years the Star of the East, a mine practically built
up by his persistency.
The Madame Berry shareholders have resolved
to wind up, the whole payable ground having been taken
out. The 00. has in the aggregate won a million in golA
and paid £820,000 divs.
• * * *
South German, Maldon (Vic.) —200 tons and 50
tons pyrites, 5230 z. 7dwt. ; Is. div. (59th). Deep levels
are beating the shallow.
* * * *
New Mariner, Steiglitz (Vic.), smiles again.
“The directorate feels certain the crosscuts west are
bound to strike the reef.” But mining dead-certs, rarely
come off, though in this case a lucky strike is sadly
needed —it would infuse new life into erratic Steiglitz.
Tributors milled last half 1030 tons for 7380 z. 18dwt., and
12 tons 14cwt. pyrites for 460 z.
* * * *
Lake View, 155 tons for 4250 z. smelted gold.
Ivanhoe, 120 tons for 1430 z.
* » * *
Zeb. Lane (loq.): “The subscribed capital of
the Boulder is something like £135,000.” An admission
that a great number of shares were not taken up in
the float. It has paid 6s. a share in divs., and has£2o,ooo
in the bank; he expects to return the subscribed capital
within two years of the formation of the co. He speaks
well of Brown Hill mine, the Perseverance, and the Lake
View, but is quiet about many others. “ I have also been
commissioned to enquire into the statements of some of
the experts upon whose recommendations big prices have
been paid for some of the Hannan’s mines. I have
affidavits to prove that properties on which developments
have been described have never had a pick in them.
Others have reported thousands of tons of rich stone at
grass, when the whole of the available stuff for crushing
could be carried off in a dray.”
* * * *
Wired to the East that the Great Boulder did
not crush any stone last tinm at the Leviathan battery
because it was unable to get teams to cart the stone. Lane
says it was on account of the larger percentage of gold
left in the Leviathan tailings. Anyhow, the fact tran-
spires that teamsters refuse £1 a ton to cart quartz a very
short distance, which shows how cheap mining is in W.A.
* • * •
Second clean-up from the Premier mine, 25-Mile
(Coolgardie): 75 tons, 1660 z. This time the excuse is that
owing to the scarcity of water a larger percentage has
been left in the tailings. The yield is good enough. Why
grease the fat pig ?
* * » *
Cue wire : —“Exceedingly encouraging news to
hand from all parts of the field,” and the wire proceeds
to show the richness of many mines. No crushings, no
yields and no divs, from which it may be inferred that
none have taken place. The Murchison has too many
batteries and too much water to play this game any
longer. The public are tired of it, and the continued
publication of such news in papers like the Argus and
S.M.H. is a sad commentary on their intelligence.
* * * *
Specimens half gold have been got at a mine at
the Norseman (W.A.) and have been sent on to Adelaide.
What for? The half-gold stone, from W.A. especially,
should be given a rest. It has lost its charm, and the
new crop of fools is not up yet. May the time soon come
when the man who displays half-gold stone will be put to
death!
• « * *
Day Dawn Block has declared a 6d. div.
(£12,000), making over £33,000 in divs. from the Towers
for the February.
» * » ♦
Mount Leyshon, Charters Towers, has skinned
a small profit from under 2dwt. stone ; cost of treatment,
7s. llfd. per ton. World’s record for cheapness? At
Ballarat the Grey Horse’s tiny profit on 2jdwt. stuff
knocked the other managers, while at Bendigo nothing
under 4dwts. meets ex’s. When the rest of Australia can
get closer to Mt. Leyshon figures, mining will boom again.
* * • *
Since Sept., ’95, the Tasmania mine has had
105 head of stamps going. Quartz crushed for half-veag,
12,206 tons, giving 12,2790 z. 2dwt. 6gr. retorted gold-
average of loz. 3gr. per ton; value £45,551 17s. sd.
Working account for half-year, £18,327 18s. Id. profit; of
this £14,440 has been paid in divs.
From the formation of co. in ’77 up to April,
’94, the Tasmania had not gone below the 500 feet level,
but had raised 244,498 tons for 311,2540 z, lOdwt. gold.
Since then it has burrowed to 718 ft., andNn 19 months
crushed 26,028 tons for 35,3810 z. 3dwt. 6gr.’ Total gold
won since formation of co., 346,6350 z. 13dwt. 6gr. from
270,526 tons of quartz—an average of loz. sdwt. 15gr. to
the ton; value, £1,250,717 13s. lOd. ; paid in divs.,
£600,675. Truly a grand mine.
The Tasmania is held in 48,*'00 shares of £5
each. Of the £240,000, but £131,997 has been called up.
* * * »
Mt. Lyell debentures are looming large just
now. £23 jump in a month ! Palpably evident the
underwriters are on the “ bull,” and, with ordinary luck,
they stand to scoop a mighty profit on the deal, if the
public makes the usual ass of itself in biting before it
knows what it has to chew. Prudent speculators will
await the result of Sticht’s experimental smelting plant.
By-the-bye, directors are alleged to have had a finger
in the underwriting, vide dissatisfied shareholders’ cir-
cular, in which they were challenged to make a statutory
declaration that they had no interest in the profits of the
underwriting on the debentures. To date, silence. The
directors, if the statement was false, should have kicked
their traducers hard.
* » * *
A heavy Mt. Lyell share-swag will shortly
provide a sensational Tas. case. Tas. M.L.G. Henry,
defendant, prior to leaving for England, had a severe
private exam, grilling by the solicitor for the Melb. plain-
tiff, silver-speculator Dixon.
* * * *
It is alleged to have cost the Mt. Lyell co.
£16,000 for its 18 miles of railway-survey.
» * * »
The Jumbo of the Mt. Lyell co. is said to have
picked up his 20,000-share swag for £l5OO.
* * * *
The Anchor Tin-mine (Tas), bought for a big
price, is now at least temporarily shut down by order of
its London directors. Premier Brad don, whose name ap-
peared on the prospectus as a promoter and Premier of
Tas., says he holds no interest in the mine, but that he
gave his name in the public interest, at the suggestion of
the Mines Department.
The Tasmania Co. has stumbled on another
likely-looking reef in the bottom levels. Next to no
prospecting is intentionally done on the mine, although
the last annual Govt, survey showed that the co. was
crosscutting for stone, that it was actually driving on—
the co’s plans being grossly in error. This crosscut is not
being continued. Shares have fallen 25% since Bravo
Jones’s attempt at flotation.
* * * *
Lefroy looks sick for want of deeper sink-
ing. Deepest shaft 800 ft. Pinafore, once 445., now ss. ;
Volunteers, once 545., now 10s. ; West Volunteers,
formerly £3, are to-day 14s.
* * * *
The Racecourse Mill (Central), Mackay, has just
published its balance-sheet for 1895. On the average 7J
tons of cane yielded a ton of 88 per cent, sugar—a profit
for the mill of Bs. 4d. a ton. The Central Mill actually
paid 14s. Bd. a ton for cane, and : av 5 its shareholders an
extra Is. a ton into the bargain. Besides this, £1035 was
paid for improvements to machinery, and the concern
also paid off £4135 of capital lent by Govt.—so that the
state of things in view of the low price of sugar is highly
satisfactoi y.
* * ♦ »
A Coolgardie wire and a fair sample:—“Mt.
Burgess mine has produced 5053 oz. of gold up to date.”
Not a line given to the fact that it started crushing early
last year, and yet has never paid a div, while the regular
erushiiy's stopped months ago simply because the ore was
too poor (o pay. This English Co., under the impression
that it had an unlimited amount of roclt, rushed up
the plant, and spent tin u ;ands in carriage alone. First
crushings went an oz.. and they soon fell below paying
point, a id for sometime the mine has been regarded as
one that cannot be made to gee under the existing
conditions.
* * * *
The pro. pectus of the North Nymagee Copper-
Mining Co. appears in the f.dvert'sing columns of this
issue. The co., as will be seen, has a laige area of ground
in a good copper district, and, as the capital is very email,
even a moderate return should be sufficient to pay handsome
dividends. To avoid over-capitalisation is the first duty
of every company-promoter, and in the present case this
duty has been duly attended to.


Wonderful Discovery!
R OSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTIOY.
M'HIS Lotion cures Swell in r/ and Sand// Jitiyht,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Siyht.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the Siyht. By post, 3s. per bottle.
f3T Manufactured Sole]v by l». l licniist
531 GEOHUE STREET. SYDNEY. ’
Telephonic No. 490.
PEATE & HARCOURT,
Telephone No. 496
THE PREMIER GROCERY ESTABLISHMENT OF AUSTRALIA
By Special Appointment,
Purveyors to
'/m >5
H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh,
and
His Excellency the Governor.
GROCERS, WINE MERCHANTS &. ITALIAN WAREHOUSEMEN.
LEST OF GOODS AT GREATLY REDUCED FRICKS.
25 5 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SHIRTS.
For Station ami Out-door work our Siik W,
Ma-italassis Mri Vnmms’SJSXtgSSZ
are highly reconmieu(ie»i
* 3/ 7,e, ‘ >>»«<»,,o„ !//lotlt
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Appliontior
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbana, Q’land
at per dozen.
The most important point for the consideration
°, all persons who desire to possess photographs
o those nearest and dearest to them is with regard
o permanence rather than price. No photograph
lat will turn yellow, break out in sjiots, or vanish
n °thingness within a few weeks can have its
value expressed in figures. When delivered, it
may slime like the enamelled mystery on a soap-
ox ’ seeds of disease are there, and must
come to the surface. This may be regarded as
ijiu o. the certainties of cheap photography at per
CHARLEMONT &. CO.,
~K •!!« (JEOIKi K STHKKT, SYDNEY,
ITa i»*mfcS9r lALTY of I‘Ehma NEXT WORK,
MERIT and SKILFUL FINISH,
oi lnvite you with confidence to inspect their
Showrooms. 1
Society
CAMEO
A sudden change has come over the spirit
of the Melbourne magistracy scandal. Judge
Williams, who adjourned the Board for an indefi-
nite period because he had to go on circuit, and
his colleague, Professor Kernot, would have private
business to attend to presently, is not going on
circuit after all. Chief Justice Madden will take
the tour, leaving learned brother Williams to
grapple with further Board revelations. Also, the
Professor’s private business has lost its urgency,
and there is nothing to prevent Lormer’s allega-
tions of beak corruption from being heard and re-
ported upon with decent promptness and despatch.
Already there is talk in the street, not among the
tail-hat brigade, but among uninfluential citizens,
of a testimonial to Lormer, the man who opened
his mouth when a scandalous silence was the order
of the day. Lormer ran a great risk of getting
solemnly squelched by the powers that be, and but
for the hearing being so long delayed, and the
gradual arrival of evidence from unexpected
quarters, he would have got squelched for a cer-
tainty.
* * * *
The story goes that, when Chairman
Wilson, of the N.S.W. Public Service Board, first
heard of some of the salaries enjoyed by certain
head-mistresses of public-schools—particularly of
the Infants’ Department—he' was simply flabber-
gasted. “Why,” he exclaimed, “it’s ever so
much more than many first-class bank-managers
receive to keep up‘ expensive positions and rear
large families on ! ”
* * * *
At Delegate (N.S.W.) a sheep-stealer’s
dog warned him of the approach of the police.
He got away for that time, and was hiding in a
hollow tree when the same dog faithfully led the
police on to his burrow. Recalling the other noble
dog which wouldn’t allow the police to touch the
body of his dead master in the Tibooburra de.si i t.
(Toby, you see, was eating his dead master.)
* * * *
THE DAY AFTER THE WEDDING.
HAPPY MAN : “ What was my pet thinking about?”
ADMIRING BRIDE: "I was thinking that I couldn’t hare really loved a man who wasn’t
handsome.”
The “chain” letter-curse device for col-
lecting money has reached Australia. Said device
consists in sending a letter to some individual ask-
ing for a subscription, and also requesting that he
make three copies of the precious document, sign
them with his own name, thereby taking the
responsibility of what may be a gross swindle, and
pass them along to three separate friends. The
three friends are thus invited, not only to subscribe
themselves, but to harry, on their own responsi-
bility, nine more friends, and the nine are re-
quested to subscribe and bring their personal
influence to bear on 27 more, and the latter lot are
mvited to cash up themselves and worry 81 more,
and these latter are to rouse up 243 of their per l
sonal acquaintances, who, in their turn, appeal to
oi berS ’ ai *d they are earnestly solicited to stir
up 2137 people they know, who are all to subscribe
themselves and pass the appeal on to 6561 others,
in U P an( l send it further along to
19,683 more, and these send it on to 59,049 —and sO
on ad libitum. In other words, the chain device
is a begging scheme whereby you make people beg
tor you and subscribe as well. What is wanted
in the present case is stamps. A children’s ward
is needed, so it is alleged, for a suburban hospital,
mid an apparently benevolent lady whom The
Bulletin doesn’t know states that if 1,000,0 >0
used stamps, not the common Id. and 2d. kind,
are forthcoming, some person not named will give
for them a sum not specified wherewith to build
the said ward. Which is about as vague as any-
thing can be. Who gets the stamps ? How much
is he willing to give for them ? What kind of a
ward is he going to build ? Who holds the stamps
m the meantime ! And who holds the person who
holds the stamps ? Also, is the “ chain ” begging-
letter curse coining to stay in Australia ?
Melb. Zoo. authorities have lately been
accused of cruelty for allowing dogs to be at
times caged with lions. As young lions in cap-
tivity are inclined to be hideously lazy, the half-
grown pup or small dog is put in as a playmate to
liven them up while the cubs are still too young
to harm the dog. They always become great pals
and play about merrily. Even when almost full-
grown the lions still hanker for their foster-
brother—and the dog reciprocates.
* * * *
There are rumors of a vigorous anti-vivi-
section crusade in Melbourne, arising out of the
recent interesting snake-poison experiments ”
an f ro £"dissections recommended to future
candidates for matriculation in physiology. It
seems that, in sbme obscure regulations, a license
is required by medical men to escape the provi-
sions of the local Animals Protection Act, and
that, even then, anaesthetics must be used on at
subjects of experiment.
A keen medical controversy re snake-bite
antidotes has been carried on for some time past.
Some swear by strychnine and chloride of lime ;
others hold that more people are killed by strych-
nine than by snake-poison.—
These arguments do well denote
New remedies are risky ;
Also that people should
Hold fast by what is good :
To wit, the grand old antidote—
Whisky.
* * * *
lie Melb. typhoid outbreak. Is it merely
coincidence that the two periods in which this
disease has most seriously prevailed have been also
periods during which the festering streets of the
city have been in process of excavation—first for
tramway, and now for sewage purposes ?
The next big sensational divorce-case down
South will involve two eminent legal hghts, two
M’sL.C., one M.L.A., three squatters, a butcher-
boy, and a pilgrim of the night. t
Feb. 29 will not come again until 1904.
The leap year is missed in 1900.
* * * *
At a recent meeting m
cemetery trustees in a small
Vic. township, the local car-
penter, who also acts as un-
dertaker, produced a list of
the bodies he had “ put
under.” “Why didn’t you
arrange them alphabeti-
cally ? ” asked the chairman.
* ‘ How the can I arrange
’em alphabetically, when they
won’t die alphabetically ? ’
retorted the corpse-shifter.
WANTED, AN ASBESTOS GAMP.
UP-TO-DATE STREET-PREACHER (during the late heat-wave): “ Yus, my dear friends, it’s ’ot,
an yer glad o them umbrellys-but it’s ’otter in ’ell, and there’s no umbrellys there."
Fever-accommodation at the Melbourne
hospitals is overcrowded owing to typhoid, and
many cases have been refused admission. Apropos,
it is stated that the stench at the Yarra steamer
berths “ turns the passengers ill and blackens the
ships paint inside and out.” The water is dirty-
black, thick and slimy, and the smell of it makes
people inclined to fall down dead. There is talk
of dredging the place, but in that event the
Southern hemisphere will have to hold its nose.
And Dr. Gresswell, Chairman of the local Board
of Health, says right out that the Yan Yean
water in daily use by the citizens is “loaded with
8 per cent by weight of putrid organic matter.”
There is in N.S.W. no legal obligation on
doctors to report typhoid cases. So much for the
long reign of the vaunted Parkes.
The Bulletin prints a pic-
ture of Maoriland’s champion
yacht, the Waitangi, and owned
by a triumvirate, Messrs Jamie-
son, Georgeson and Kirker, who
sail her for all she is worth—
which has meant first past the
post in every race she has entered
for, bar two. Her latest win was
the first-class yacht-race at the
Wellington regatta on 22nd
Jan., this year, beating the ex-
champion Maritana by 55min.
over a 32-knot course. At Lyt-
telton the Waitangi did the
course in record time, beating
the crack IMascotte on her own
water. Already in the ’95-6
season she has come home first
in the five races entered for, but
big time allowances have taken
three out of the five trophies
away. Logan, of Auckland, is
the builder. She was launched
m 94, and her builder brought
her down the 600 miles’ sail in
6 days 18 hours, with a dead beat
for six days. Measurements :
57ft. 7in. overall; 38ft, on water-
line ; beam lift. 4in. ; draws 9ft.
Bm.; has ten tons of lead outside and one ton inside •
■iQ#F 0l t maSte - d ;bo °m, 41ft. long; cruiser’
SV bows P nt , 6 f t. long; overhang aft 12ft. and
Bft. forward. The photo, shows her off Te Aro
Wellington, during the big event on 22nd. Jan.
Since this par. was written the Waitangi has
written “Finis” to her record with one abrunt
sad stroke. On 28th February, according* to the
telegrams which have reached Sydney Messrs' W
k ° f tlle Commercial Ho’tel, Christ-
church) Murray (of the New Brighton Hotel
Lyttelton an 4;T th - r ’, t0 ° k , the STat
Lyttelton. She capsized; and the three named
™ left clinging to her, while the fourth swim
for assistance. He reached the shore safely • but
on returning to the scene of the capsize nothing
tangltecruite men * was the
* * * *
A gruesome hot-weather story. A private
come b, the heat, the 2,5
aside and proceeded to camp underneath while
the passenger took a spell under a neighboring
tree. When the latter had rested sufficiently he
turned to rouse the driver, but found him dead
Lifting the corpse into the buggy, he started for
Windorah, but, overcome in his turn, fell out of
the buggy unconscious, and lay on the road until
rain fell and revived him. Again he made "or
Windorah with his gruesome load, and finally
arrived there to find the landlord of the only hotel
in the place also dead of heat-apoplexy.
* * * *
More women doctors. Already Melb.
University has turned out 13 women-doctors, and
this year’s entries show that there are 10 girls
more studying medicine, or one woman medical
student to every 20 men ditto.
* * * *
The much-gilt Miss Nellie Aitken, one of
Melb. ’s prettiest girls, is to be married next week
to Mr. Lionel Buckland with great pomp and cir-
cumstance.
* * * *
Wail from New Australia: “If this is
Socialism, God defend me from it. The trouble
is, we all mistrust the laziness of the other fellow.
I had an awful grudge against one man I suspected
M.E. Champion Yacht WAITANGI.
Photo, by T. Pringle, Wellington.
of loafing until I found somebody else suspected
°f the same. We have no candles or kerosene
vf iV however, the fireflies here are big about
half-an-inch long—so we catch them, and secure
them m the cleft of a forked stick, and make them
serve as substitutes.”
thus a married man now in New Aus-
tralia: “ We have no light to light us to bed ; no
soap for washing ; we never taste tea, flour or
sugar. Our tools and utensils are wearing out,
and we cannot get fresh ones. Our principal food
is maize, and even that is failing. We cannot
possibly get back unaided, for we threw all we
nad into the movement,”
THE J.P.
“Justice is mine,” saith the Lord.
But the powers of darkness get level,
Grinning like one who has scored,
“ And the J.P. is mine !” saith the Devil.
S. S.
THE FATE OF FATE.
I riend Danton,”poet of the puzzled pate,
Permit thou me, a pundit poor, to state
that Tate, of Fate, is first and final date,
And thus the only Fate of Fate is—Fate.
P.M.
Find first where a circle ends,
And fix where it begins :
Mark where Space no bound
O puny mannikins !
Space pegg’d out, Eternity,
With dials regulate :
Then, Child of Humanity,
Fix thou the Fate of Fate.
C.


SHAVING *a»«
A PLEASURE uv Using
ed PIMUI)
Shaving
Cream.
MATRIMONY.
F you wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult
us.- Our varied and extensiv e clientele enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stations of life. Local
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecy. All comnnuiications confidential. Information
sent free to bona-fide applications. Write for pamphlet
and rules.
Weldon's Matrimonial Association.
57 PHILLIPS STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next Hotel lletropole).
JAMES KIDMAIN,
What a Difference the FREETRADE TARIFF has made to the BREAKFAST TABLE )
JUST FANCY!
YOU CAN PROCURE AT JAMES KIDMAN’S
Company’s I.C. Sugar, 2d. per lb.
Gold Medal Milk, (id. per tin.
Kippered Herrings, 7d. per tin.
1211). Rice for Is. 9d.
3 tins Skeena lliver Salmon for Is. 9d.
:i packets Cornflour for 9d.
lolli. Adelaide Flour for Is., Patent Roller (of course the
previous duty of Jtl per ton has been taken off).
Sydney Soap and Candle Company’s Sperm Candles,
full weights, sd. per lb. In this instance, the sd.
per lb. duty has disappeared.
Lea and Perrin’s Sauce, IOJd. per bottle.
121 b. Sago, Is. 6d.; 121 b. Barley, Is. 6d.; 161 b. Soda, Bd.
C. and Blackwell’s Lncca Oil, quarts, Is. 9d. bottle.
Foster’s quart Ale, Bs. lid. ; M‘Ewan’s Ale, quarts,
9s. sd. ; Jeffrey’s quart Ale, Gs. 9d. ; Toohe.y’s Ale,
4s. 9d. ; Bulldog Stout, 9s. 7d. ; Burke’s or Beaver
Stout, Bs. lid.; IJennessy’s *** Brandy, Gs. per
bottle; Usher’s Spec's! Reserve Whisky, 3s. 9d.;
Brown’s 4-Crown Whisky, 3s. Gd.
NAMDIK SEMAJ, Oxford Street, and George and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Another voice from Paraguay is heard in
the columns of the Barrier Miner: “Gilbert
Casey is back, says the voice, “ and is whipping
up the scattered flock, but its members are riven
by conflicting opinions. It is a dull, hard, spirit-
less grind, and no ray of light can I see ahead. So
the most cheerful and the bravest have left in sad-
ness. H. G. Watson, whose early letters were so
full of hope and courage, has silently gone down
to Asuncion. Only the bushmen’s dread of being
laughed at by the tender-handed but tough-
tongued city scoffer restrains those who could
raise the money from silently stealing back to
Australia and fighting once more with the world
in the old way at Coolgardie. The education of
the children is neglected ; the young women are
already old, and mere mechanical drudges; and
altogether the community, which started out with
such high hopes and ideals, is getting surely down
to a plane no higher than that of the poor native
people whom less than three years ago they all so
heartily despised. It is one of the social catas-
trophes of our time. ”
* * *
The Victoria Regia, the great African water-
lily, flowered, for the first time in N.S.W., last
week at the residence of Mr. Hugh Dixson. Summer
Hill, Sydney. In Victoria, for 30 years past, the
annual flowerings of this plant have been a great
attraction at Melb. Botanic Gardens, where old
Baron von Mueller had a special house built for
its accommodation.
* * * »
Who says that the yellow aster is not to
be ? A green dahlia has been grown in the public
gardens at Oamaru (M.L.). The blooms of this
curio are small, perfectly double, and of a brilliant
green.
* * * *
Boss Chow laundrymen in Melb. are, it
would appear from a petition re the Factories
Bill presented to the Leg. Council by the
Tailoresses’ Union, gradually “ sacking ” their
yellow employes and taking on white girls to do
the work. They find it cheaper, they exp’ain.
And several vegetable-carts now traversing Melb.
suburbs are driven by Europeans, though bearing
the names of Ah Tip, One Lung, &c. The alleged
white of Cairns (N,Q.), identifiable by his habit of
taking off his hat whenever he meets a Chinaman,
will soon have a Southern prototype.
* * * *
Judges’-associates have a very soft time.
As a rule, they are near relations to the Judge,
and are in training as barristers. All their duties,
which are well-salaried, could be easily performed
by a court-messenger. Also, their pickings often
exceed their salaries. Any court-documents which
are to be copied are put in the care of the associate.
He has the work done by a miserable typewriter
at Id. or 2d. per folio, and charges Is., which the
unfortunate parties to a suit have to pay. In this
way, out of a very ordinary case, .£2O or £3O can
be reckoned on. In the course of law-reform,
attention should be given to this cold-blooded
swindle.
* * * *
“ Women are more imaginative than men.”
Our colonial word ! A Ballarat servant-girl the
other day drew upon herself the attention of half
the town by hanging out of a window in a
state of undress, and shrieking for the police, and
the fire-brigade, and the benefit of clergy. The
brave girl had found burglars in the house, and
attacked them with great ferocity, whereupon
they fled down a ladder. The ladder was there
to corroborate the story, and moreover, the rooms
were turned upside-down, and a gold watch and
other valuables belonging to a fellow servant were
missing. After imaginary burglars had been
chased for seven days and seven nights, and
shrewd detectives had gathered up half-a-ton of
footprints and other clues, the girl artlessly con-
fessed that she got the whole idea out of a penny
dreadful, and the missing jewellery was hidden in
her chest-protector, and she wanted to go home
to ma.
* * * *
Professional burying-parsons in Australia
will read with much pain that their work is being
done in Long Island, U.S.A., by phonograph.
The mechanical parson is brought along by the
undertaker and set up at the head of the grave,
where it reels off the service with much greater
impressiveness than the average black-coated
minister of grace. After all, it is merely the
change of one automaton for another. The par-
son who gabbles over a dozen coffins a day in any
Australian boneyard displays just about as much
sentiment as a hurdygurdy.
* * * * *
“Look here,” said a detective, lately
transferred from country to metropolis, accosting
a leading reporter on a morning paper, a man
whose name is known as a journalist of excep-
tional ability throughout Australia, “ I want you
to mention my name whenever there’s a show.
My arrangement with the press boys is 2s. fid. for
each mention, and that’s what I’ll give you.” And
the man of clues sincerely believes that the sub-
editors are leagued in a conspiracy to suppress his
name, and often does he commiserate with the
reporter on the loss of his prospective half-crowns.
The story of the N.S.W. one-legged man
who, the other day. jumped on his big brother,
locked him in a room, and then dashed himself
through the side of a house in the upper storey,
and tried to bore a hole to Tophet with his own
upper storey, after a 20-feet dive, makes the writer
want to tell a lot of stories about wooden-legged
men. He has often seen a timber-shanked party
back against a wall, unscrew his loose limb, and
defy “ the foorce ” to “ come on now, ye murdher-
ing ruffians.” There was a noted Brisbane ex-
man-o’-warsman who could sprint like a ped. on
BAR-PARLOR THEOLOGY.
FIRST THEOLOGIAN: “ Solomon was a wise man, and-”
SECOND DITTO: “Yes, but Jonah swallowed a whale.”
THIRD DITTO: “ Good Lord, what a — hie—h of a fellow for fish!”
two timber-stumps (iron-rimmed at the business
ends), and could give two policeman, at one and
the same spring, each a prod exactly where the
buttons feel tightest. He came to grief one night
by sticking fast in a grating, and broke both legs
and his neck by the impact of his checked impetus.
But the worst case the present liar ever knew was
that Rockhampton hero with one wooden leg and
one wooden arm, furnished with a “ Captain
Cuttle ” hook. His battle-habit was to grapple a
bobby in a fleshy part with the “arm” and smite
him into civility with his “ leg.” Another wooden-
legger—a bit of a crank—used to cremate his
timber, and then mooch around for the price of
“ more firewood.” Another—but anon.
♦ * * *
Recent obituaries record the death of Mrs.
Dight, a member of the historic N.S.W. family,
at a great age. It was her husband who took up
an early grant at Yarra Falls, near Studley Park,
Melbourne, and established the big mills there.
Twenty years ago, the Dights’ Saturday and
Sunday boating parties were one of the innocent
glories of social Melbourne. Many a young couple
took a plunge into matrimony close by the eddying
A FRAGMENTARY LOVE-PASSAGE.
THE GENT: “Ah! had I but windows to my soul"-
THE LADY: “ Whereas you, only have one, poor chap!"
currents of Dight’s Falls, and one man drowned
himself there on being rejected by a girl who
afterwards became one of the stoutest and most
haughty boom-matrons.
* » * *
Princess Helena is preparing a book of
etiquette for occasional visitors to royal and im-
perial courts, which will be full of “ hints on dig-
nified behaviour in august presence. ”, The ideas
of a Queen’s daughter as to how “ subjects ” should
comport themselves in an august presence ought to
be deeply interesting.
* * * *
Madame Blank, of London, advertises that
she is eorsetiere to all the leading members of the
dramatic profession, and to the officers of many of
Queen Victoria’s crack regiments.
A hint for women who love to languish
long over their little interesting events. The
Duchess of York drove out to her parents’house
to dinner 11 days after the birth of her latest
baby. It was certainly a special occasion—Xmas
Day—but that doesn’t alter the fact that the con-
valescent pulled herself together and performed a
feat which Mrs. Brown de Jones would faint at
the thought of. If Mrs. B. de J. wants to be
really fashionable she must make less fuss next
time she adds to the population.
* * * #
Melb. society staggers under the momentous
intelligence that Gov. Brassey has changed his
“trike ” for a “ bike.” He found that the three-
wheeler was too great a handicap when Mrs. Free-
man Thomas started to “scorch,” and now,
mounted on two wheels, an elderly Governor
bruises himself for an hour every day for the sake
of lightness and suite. Imagine Augustus Loftus’s
horror at the degradation of Australian vice-regal
traditions !
An Adelaide
lady who arrived in
Melbourne the other
day on a visit met
with a collection of
picturesque bad luck.
Before she left the
steamer her pocket
was picked of every
cent she had with
her —the average
woman goes into a
strange country with
all her assets in a
pocket in the back
part of her skirt ex-
pressly contrived so
that she can’t see the
man who is pillaging
her. She thus found
herself, with two
small children, a
cleaned-out stranger
in a new city. A
fellow - passenger
with four small chil-
dren was moved by
her troubles and
asked her to break-
fast in a restaurant,
and after breakfast
stepped out for a
moment to buy some-
thing. She never
returned, though a
distracted lady with
six small children
waited for hours in
hopes that she might
turn up, while an
aggravated landlord
besoug'A her to pay
for the breakfast —which she couldn’t do because
she bad no money—and get out —which was im-
possible, for she had no place to go to or to take
the other four children to. Finally, the devas-
tated proprietor gave the other four children into
custody as neglected infants, and the lady with
the other two children went away and got out of
their troubles somehow. And the moral of it all
is that the back part of a lady’s frock is an insane
place for a pocket, anyhow.
ROUGH DIAMONDS.
Far from the noise and smoke of towns
Dwelt her adorer ;
Upon the Western Queensland downs
He was a borer,
Who always, slightly through his nose,
Struck fire and water ;
And she, a fair and adipose
Bush public’s daughter.
A wild (grog) blossom, innocent
And self-reliant,
Of evil thought or evil meant
She was defiant.
A wide experience had she,
And nothing shocked her ;
She cured more cases of D.T.
Than any doctor.
His cheque was done. She coldly said
She loved another;
But he, no longer fancy led,
Married her mother.
And, when his case is diagnosed,
He’s not so far out :
He serves the drinks, while she, deposed
She scrubs the bar out.
Likewise he swears, when partly drunk
And ripe for slaughter,
- No darned bananer-eatin’ skunk
Q-
Will git his daughter.
R. A. F.
AN IMPRISONED SOUL: TO ANGELA.
The medical evidence showed that deceased, a young
girl of 19, died from a weak heart. —News item.
“ Weak heart,” the doctors said ;
Sweet soul, they did you wrong !
Though hearts with heavenly longing fed
Beat fast, they still beat strong.
Yours, caged, felt no doubt
That when against the bars
It beat its earthly being out,
Its soul would join the stars.
R. K. DEE.
Melbourne.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
F.C. (B.): Over-complicated C.V. (G.I):
Your “pointed” remarks would cost £'lo,ooo to print.
Please send marked cheque ... H.M. (O.): Nicely written,
but interest doesn’t match length P.M.G. (E.): “ Mar-
riage ” merely a temperance-tract story Kergela : Yes,
but you give us hardly a usable line W.J.O. : Don’t re-
member them E.8.D.: “ The mere fact of a man’sname
being Ebenezer or Reuben signifies nothing,” you say.
“ Ebenezer or Reuben is as good as any other name.”
Perhaps it is—in itself—but you can’t get over hereditary
considerations. The man who handicaps his son with the
name of Ebenezer usually does it as an advertising move,
and the ostentatiously-holy are mostly addicted to sneak-
thievery and the more contemptible vices. No stalwart
bushranger was ever named Ebenezer. So, when you
meet Ebenezer, and Reuben, and Jedediah, and the rest
of ’em, you have to consider whether figs grow on thistles.
... The Bounder: You ask what sized hats are worn by
Parkes, the Prince of Wales, and Gladstone. Well,
the two latter not being personal friends of ours, we don’t
know, but there’s no hat on earth big enough for Parkes
M.B. : Some merit; not quite enough G.T. (Pent.):
“ It don’t matter what you do if your heart is true ” —but
it matters a lot what we print Ziobo : Far too long-
winded Walt (Mildura) : Dream of heaven only sug-
gests thoughts of H. : Sorry unsuitable
H. (London): Tedious melodrama . F.G.S., W.A.8.:
Considering Smith (Brisb.): A bright person might
nave made a bright par. about it. You are plainly a dull
person Jean Rimeur : Little strength or originality.
A.G.W.: Verse ditto “All on his Own”: Hardly
up Timothy Titus : It has the gloomy twang of the
British comic paper “ Better Days ” : Good idea ; treat-
ment weakßackarock : “Shell-voice” ditto R.K.:
“Jay” neatly worded, but probability not obvious
enough to give point Amycus : No Bulletin value
Perthite: Barrington has never visited Australia, so
far as is known Glen : “Station B.” excellent J.
J. : Thanks ; but we must say no more about Margaret
Catchpole’s place of burial. The subject is interminable.
Fat Person : Eat little ; drink less ; no sugar, beer,
spirits, potatoes, bread, pudding, pastry, soups, fancy
dishes; plenty of exercise and bathing Blund'erbus :
Nothing in “Comedy” W.A.P. : No descriptive knack.
Harold : Yarns dull and British Lycidas : Nothing
compensates for the unpleasantness Arnold: Little
power; and the lightning is not an impressive machine-
god Cubbie : “ Sick Stockrider” re-hashed Momus :
Dead-child pathos is getting too worn, and yours shows
traces of the pump Robert W. : Verse tedious
Buveur d’Eau : If water can only inspire you to lines like
Then come, my love, my only love,
Come hither unto me !
better try a little whisky Flen : Touches the nadir
of commonplace Jimmy Ringer : Hardly enough in-
terest for space Scotch College Boy : Who is he?
J.W. (Balmain): Will investigate: H.J.B. : Anecdotes
with “flaming” in them are only less objectionable
than anecdotes containing “blanky.” J.Y.M. : Go
and multiply Is. 6jd. by a mile-and-a-quarter, and
then boil the answer in a hat, and ask yourself why a
frozen cockatoo isn’t a bull-ant with green spectacles on.
N.I. (Sydney): Good yarn disfigured by too much
“blanky.” Thor. : Soliloquy of Chow oh bike hardly
good enough Under-scrub (Nelson): One or two will
do R.A.C. : “Ain’t a wardrobe a thing what a priest
wears?” Is that a joke? Red Cover : Thanks, but your
local editor’s figures are rather loose in places Ghoul:
You are too preachy for a ghoul. A healthy ghoul simply
chews dead bodies in a meditative fashion, and occasion-
ally carries decayed flesh round for exercise. You are
merely a curate B. : The yarn about the actor who
wanted to play “Marshal Tread,” the individual that
Henry V. always entered with, isn’t new The saint :
Can’t stand yarns with “ Lo, and Behold ” in them
F.J.H. : We quite believe it “really happened at
Ipswich.” Ipswich is just the place where a thing
like that would feel sad enough to happen
Mephisto : What is the “real fault” of your “poetry?”
Dullness and mechanical correctness, and the fact that
you aren’t a poet Charles H. : Just so J.S. : The
worst tiling about Jameson’s raid is the doggerel that
came after it. The man who wilfully sets other people
writing doggerel about him, or does things that give rise
to doggerel, is a reckless incendiary Trois Etoiles : Poor
decomposed pun R.H.A. : The Bulletin wants a
Federal navy, army and militia for Australian defence.
But that is no reason why you should shriek about the
“ blood-red war-cloud hanging low on the horizon.”
P.S. : Your poem about Neild’s poems is worse than
Neild’s poems themselves F. Bradshaw : A good story
but unprintable, like many other good stories S.M. :
Dreary fragment about a praste J.M‘N. (Kalgoorlie) :
Thanks E.M.N. : The story of M'Pherson, the China-
man, has been told many times already Bales : Was
shea “lady” or a “lydy” or a “ puffeck lydy?” A
great deal depends on that A.G. (Annandale): Will try
to tone down some of the language of Victoria de Grey, and
use .O.T. (Queensland): You’ve struck it first attempt
Nolo : What is needed is more police, not more floggings.
Certainty of detection, not severity of punishment
I. (600): Will print Lycidas : Your fly and other
perjuries will appear R.A.F. : Sawmill will have to
keep awhile E.E. : The Broughs have been married 15
years Silva: Unusable C. 8.5.: The Wesleyan clergy-
man, we believe, gets £8 a year for each child in his family.
D.F.A. : A free railway-pass is the only public re-
muneration Westralia’s legislators receive ; but, if rumor
be correct, several get plenty “ mint sauce ” privately
Country Mug : Lacks the delicacy necessary in approach-
ing such a theme C.C.: It comes to this—as well try
to prohibit women as wine A.G.W. : The “wild ele-
gee” has no charms for us A.E.S. : “Is life a choas?”
you demand. Spelling is, anyway D.T.D. : Rhymes
float peacefully over commonplace thought like a dead
cat in the water-supply Diamond: “Cocky” has
germs of good, but they want better treatment
W.A.P. : Not much in “Bishop.” A.N.H. : (1) Thanks,
but Gordon is pretty familiar. (2) Poem “ let down
easily,” as requested C.C. (M.L.) : “Psychologist”
good idea, but unconvincing as written. Would it give
verisimilitude to relate as a doctor’s experience ? Hub :
Thanks R.H.L. : Worthless Miner (Johannesburg):
Long letters no use Tahune : Verse hardly up C.N.:
Ditto Practical Bushman : The joey can’t get round
inside, so it must go outside, and the mother has been
seen to put it on the teat with her lips. It mayn’t
be “ reasonable,” but it’s so. Lots of unreasonable
things occur every day—beginning with sunrise
Leura : This paper wasn’t established for the purpose of
glorifying pushing people who happen to possess money.
The facts that the cheeky Mr. and Mrs. Norfolk Howard
“ are on a visit to Mrs. Borndrunk,” and that “ Mr. and
Mrs. Snobkins entertained a large circle of friends,
including Mr. and Mrs. and the Misses de Jobson,” is of
interest only in Snobkinsville and de Jobsondom, and the
parts adjacent thereto Yarrevah : Too close to a P.M.
Magazine yarn, and not worth space, anyway Hard-up:
“Cursed” is J.J.H. : Fine sample'of the yarn that
goes exploring in the wild interior and loses itself
F.C. J. : Your objection to the naughty house seems to be
chiefly that it is run by Chinamen." Exactly how far is it
from the school? Mathetes : A bit morbid, don’t you
think? R.W. :“Dead baby” received at office of Bul-
letin—the literary morgue K. (Dubbo): Again—easy
writing is d d hard reading Veldt: Merit; not
enough 6 x 8: “Father” may do A.H.: Thanks;
the slips serve to show us we’re mortal like other fellows.
(2) Yes, if you cut ’em shorter J.H.W. : Thanks ; will
use “ Idyll.” R.L. : MTlwraith is invalided physically
and financially, and probably he’ll never see Kanaka-
land again Breaker: Probably J.W. : Thanks.


Our Fashion Book, containing 36 of the
latest styles fof autumn and winter seasons, 1896,
is now ready for fisge distribution, upon applica-
tion. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 2LI,
Bitt-street (only), Sydney.*
SAPHO SOAP
REMOVES ALL WRINKLES AND IMPURITIES OF THE SKIN
PLAIN woman MADE ATTRACTIVE. PRETTY woman
made BEWITCHING.
its Constant Use-
SAPHO PERFUME
FOR the HANDKERCHIEF
COMPLETES THE
toilette
<0R
AS*
mi
[?]
Sydney, March 3, 1896.
My Dear Moorabinda—
This is indeed a frosty time for old Adam, what
with revolting wives, new-womany talk, absence
of rudimentary decency, and all the rest of it.
And the other day a lecture (the hall was crowded
to the doors) was given in a Sydney suburb for
“ married women only,” “ on mental and physical
inadaptability,” by a female medicine-woman, Dr.
Ida Somebody. I can imagine the result—how
the sheep came home after the enlightenment
more determined than ever to strike ill-used atti-
tudes and burn the gravy, for what women see,
hear and read has a lasting effect on them—their
emotional adaptability insists on it, and all these
serio-comic problem plays and sex lectures, which
try to rub out women as women and substitute I
don’t exactly know what, are making domestic
joys very uncertain things. And what rubbish
women' are striking attitudes about nowadays !
Take the utter hysterical tommyrot of Mrs. Ebb-
smith’s shuddering moan and staring eyes of
horror on discovering that she—a woman —was
fundamentally womanly! By the same token,
every woman who suddenly finds that she wants
her lunch ought to grab hold of something and,
with eyes starting out of her head, shriek in a
dramatic voice, “Bring me a pot of tea and a
scone in the common, hungry way of my unfor-
tunate, contemptible sex! ’
Talking about sex, Miss Alice Muskett, in her
breezy and interesting description in Sydney D.T.
of some phases of life in the Paris Latin quarter,
discovers the fourth sex. “ The room,” said she,
“was full of men, women, and models.” This
will be comforting news to Mrs. Grundy, to whom
“ model ” and “ hussy ” have heretofore been syno-
nymous terms. How is it, by the way, that you
never, by any chance, read in an Australian news-
paper an article, a sketch, or a story from the pen
of any of the numerous gilded young Australian
women whose riches privilege them to travel
among the older civilisations? What delightful
letters are sent from Europe to San Francisco
Argonaut by wealthy, cultured Californian
women abroad ! And how is it that only once in
a. blue moon “ A Victorian Girl ” or an Alice
Muskett arises on our newspaper horizon ? The
rich Australians all seem to be either destitute of
brains or ashamed of their country.
Rev. C. H. Yatman, the hysterical Yankee
revivalist who has been turning up the oft-tilled
spiritual soil of Sydney, has now departed for
other shores, but I cannot let him go without com-
plimenting him on the symmetry of the order of
his discourses. For example, one day he gave a
“ Woman only ” afternoon on the subject of
“ Woman’s Special Work,” while “ Hell ” was his
starting-point the very same evening. It almost
looked as if the dear brother was illustrating cause
and effect.
Apropos of ghostly things, I am reminded
that a new convent lately blessed has its
looal habitation in three amalgamated terrace-
houses, one of which is the identical dove-cote in
which a much-married politician went successfully
courting bride No. 2 some time before No. l’s
shoes were quite ready for her. Evidently the
morals of a house are solely the existing tenant’s
affair, for now a rev. mother occupies the most
thrilling apartment in that historic domicile.
Which is interesting in connection with the theo-
sophic theory that evil lurks in houses like typhoid-
germs in a drain, and that the microbe of—er—
unconventionalism is as easily absorbed as the
others.
The N.S.W. military made the farewelling of
Major-General and Mrs. Hutton a prolonged
agony—numberless dinners and a conversazione in
the big Town Hall, which was rather too large for
the attendance and presented the appearance of
more flags than folks, though, to be sure, a man in
lobster fixings takes up the space of six black-
coated civilians as far as filling the eye is con-
cerned. Captain Gingah & Co. may congratulate
themselves on the fact that they did their level
best to make “ Uncle ” Hutton’s last moments in
office as much like the termination of a kangaroo-
hunt as possible; and though they pursued him
with corkscrews instead of stirrup-irons, the
result to the quarry was practically the same. The
most trying part of officialdom must be that you
oan’t get into or out of your collar but the com-
munity comes down on you in sections with corn
and oil and long-winded until the
bored recipients feel a wild longing to cut away
i nbeknownst per sheep-truck—if they happen to
te outward bound.
The blonde Mrs. Hutton took part in almost all
the farewell functions. Sydney will honestly re-
gret the Major-Generaless, who proved such a
tactful leader of society at a time when Guvment-
ouse appeared to be hardly answering to its helm,
and showed much practical sympathy for the
Sydney charities. Mrs. Hutton was generally the
best-gowned woman in the room, too, and she had
the art of wearing her gorgeous diamonds as
calmly as if they were strings of beads. If only
as a valuable object-lesson she will be missed by
many diamond-wearing and consequently worried
Australiennes. It isn’t at all unusual to see Lady
Marrowfat grab at her new diamond necklace with
an anxious expression every ten minutes or so.
A company of well-intentioned musical amateurs
under the inspiration of -Mrs. J. E. Scantlebury
(Miss Josephine Deakin), gave a pleasant enter-
tainment to their friends at the Masonic Hall,
Summer Hill, last Wednesday. “In Honor
Bound ” opened the programme, but the piece de
resistance was a new operetta “ Extremes,” by
Odvardo Barri. “ Extremes ” is a unique operetta
in that there is absolutely no male interest—it is
played altogether by women, which rather gives it
the air of a girls’ boarding-school break-up. It
was very well dressed and staged, but “Mrs.
Crabtree,” “Nora,” and “Clara” were the only
convincing members of a cast seven strong.
Nothing else —except that the clever pianiste ac-
companying the opera was the very speaking
image of Juliet Flegeltaub Wray.
N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society means to
make a far-reaching splash this autumn with its
annual show, which opens on Ist prox. Most of
the Australian Governors have signified their in-
tention of being present, and, as all the leading
horses have also promised to attend, the show
should be particularly brilliant this year. There
is to be a banquet in the Town Hall on the evening
of opening day, With ladies looking on from the
galleries ; on the 7th prox., a grand ball in the
Town Hall winds up the show-week. And the
Governors are to be in evidence all the time. Ido
hope there won’t be any contretemps like that at
Christchurch (Maoriland) Agricultural Show, the
other day, when, after the toast of the “ Queen ”
had been solemnly proposed, the band struck up
“Daisy Fell.”
THE TWO BRILLIANT LEFT-HANDED SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BATSMEN.
“Joe ” Darling and Clement Hill.
Photo, by Kerry.
Ma Mie Rosette had a signally-successful revival
at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday. Memories of
Nellie in the name-part grew faint, and certainly
May Pollard’s warble is very fetching—she has a
dove-like coo in her voice that soothes like a cat
purring in your ear. But she wore too many
petticoats—as usual. The public resents even one
skirt on the shapely Miss P., and, when she
bunches ’em on in threes, there is a rankling sense
of injury “in front.” Mr. Pounds, as Rosette’s
well-meaning lover, looked like Walter Howe at a
fancy-ball, and wore a pair of mauve tights which
gave me a pain in the eye every time he stood
near Rosette’s rose-pink garment. But he played
and sang Vincent as that -ill-used gardener—who
has such a bad time of it in his best girl’s night-
mare—has never been interpreted here before, and
one heard for the first time what Vonsong was
howling about. A great difference was made in
the duel-scene. There was no clash of property-
swords as heretofore. “My lords will not fight,”
says the author plainly.
Wallace Brownlow played and warbled the
gallant “ Ongri ” even more picturesquely than
before, and, as a fatal consequence, the encore
fiend got his thumb on each of the bold, bad
monarch’s solos while the red-hot scene in the
second act got an enthusiastic hand. Mr. Brown-
low’s big voice has a clear field in “Rosette,” and
he can let himself £o without any danger of
drowning the other principals, for Royalty has the
orchestra all to itself when it elects to pour out its
soul in song. Only one thing I don’t understand
in Brownlow’s King, and that is when Jie alludes
to himself as “I.” Aren’t kings—and editors —
always “We”?
Miss Hetty Muret (with the speaking-voice of a
horse-marine) was new to Sydney in the flesh-
colored tights of Segur, and the new—l won’t say
fresh —faces in the chorus lent an air of unfami-
liarity to the guests in those awful garments of
state. Chorus-girls are the greatest of all argu-
ments against petticoats. They are so trim and
alluring in tights, and so suggestive of third-rate
milliner’s dummies when the plot requires them
to veil their principal beauty. Seeing the chorus
in long gowns proves that the woman who isn’t
Venus has all to gain and nothing (to speak of) to
lose in bifurcating herself. Even the back row of
the ballet have a certain opera-glass interest when
they demonstrate in pink tights that men and
women walk on two legs.
The Tableaux Vivants after “ Ma Mie Rosette”
had a great reception, and it was notable that the
encore didn’t always follow; the l-
ndeed, “Breaking the News md A * The
EES
and the pose was cleverly preserve! J
of having the name of each
the frame was a good one. Aft e j
popular, but jometohr o^ht
unmarried artist that a girl hoots too,
her chemise and bracelets on i Guv’-
apparently - except on occasions when G
mentouse champagne has kep p night,
virtuous couch round the room al g
“Sappho” made a very airy, frenchy, rattier
tobacconist-advt. figure m black !g‘ -
mask, but, all the same, I am tryn.K to estabhsh
relationship with her on the strength < f the ap
plause she got. “ Hope ” was nambyjmT by, amd
the pose was spoilt by the moving
» Summer ” made me hold my breath.
got cramps in her right arm some mght hd let
that bunched-up drapery fall, there would tea
feminine break for the door, though t ,
Fates ” going before may be regarded as a sort ot
botSr ’S-K* the force of any »ucoee*n*
moral shock. Statuary of course, is alw ,ys
proper; besides, a pipeclay female is unearthly,
and gives rise to no speculations. Even .Vgm
lion didn’t really liven up until Galatea s toes
began to blush.
Premier Reid, in his speech at the Hutton con-
versazione, enunciated a great truth when he said
Mrs. Hutton was the better general of the two.
Of course; the blonde and smiling Mrs. Hutton
had only to present the silky side ; it wasn’t her
task to clean out the Augean stables of the service,
so consequently she had a greater vogue than
hubby. Somebody said the other day that General
Hutton was all right enough, but he was a lot too
sudden. It was a real shame to have a great, big,
strong, active potentate, who simply ravened for
exercise and hard work, coming along in the early
morning and bustling men, some of whom had for
years never ventured to get out of bed in the
morning until they had taken six whiskies to drive
the snakes out of their boots.
The Medical Congress which has just subsided
in Dunedin certainly has a peculiar appearance in
the hotel-lists published in Otago Daily Times.
“ Wain’s hotel, Doctor MacParritch and one lady ;
Watson’s hotel, Doctor Burgoo and two ladies ;
Smith’s hotel, Doctor Mac Haggis and three
ladies.” But perhaps the public of Duhedin,
where they wear kilts on their morals, wildly
speaking, is too Scotch to grin at such things.
Writes my Melb. correspondent
Polo has been the local diversion during the
past week : sassiety ” thronged to Richmond
racecourse for the three days to watch the youths
of the smart set half kill their ponies in this reck-
less but high-toned sport. On Wednesday after-
noon, when the two Melb. teams were badly beaten
by Camperdown and Caramut, the gathering was
particularly fashionable, and the dressing of the
maids and matrons “Cupesque,” if I may coin a
word. The wife of the president, Mrs. Geo.
Chirnside, wore a serpentine-dancer’s gown of
blue pmk and green opalescent silk, with pink
silk sleeves. Mrs. Everard Browne, looking pale
but pretty, affected demure black and white
tweed, but let herself go somewhat as to the hat
which was vast and black and pink. Vice-royaltv
made the affair a kind of family picnic and went
out on bicycles, the babies and nurses follow-
ing m a capacious carriage. The bicvcle
costume affected by Lady Brassey and Mrs.
Freeman Thomas is graceful and pretty when
the wearer is riding, and it has been slavishly
copied locally to a button. In promenading in
the breeze, however, there is an obviously un-
wrinkled or wet-bath mg-gown look about the
lower part of it. The costume is made of grey or
dark-blue alpaca with full skirt and 8 jacket
worn over a white blouse with goffered frills and
j e iiT ai^0 Ti C S? ar a^SO mu °h befrilled. Lady B
and Mrs. F. T. who make a point of displaying
on all occasions how very much the maternal in-
stinct is in vogue just now, hugged their respective
infants half the afternoon. The three Govment-
ouse men played with the Melb. teams; Lord
Shaftesbury looked particularly dashing in his
polo dress. He played with much vigor, and
rolled his sleeves up to the shoulder, thereby dis-
playing elaborate devices of dragons, serpents, & c .,
m Japanese tattoo, mementoes of his recent visit
to the East. One Melb. player rode a miniature
cream pony during the first “quarter” of the
game, and emerged from the fray with his horse’s
flanks and sides dripping with blood. Even
sassiety, which makes a point of concealing its
feelings, was moved to horrified exclamation when
the quivering little horse was led off the ground.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
The Leger at Flemington on Saturday was a
ludicrous exhibition of bad jockeyship— i.e., bad judg-
ment of pace—on Gough's part. Nobody supposed that
James Gough had the head of a Tom Hales, but he was at
least given credit for knowing what to do with a first-class
horse in a 1J mile race when there is but one dangerous
opponent going. A wise rider under these conditions
never allows himself to be lured into the rear by his
dangerous opponent, whilst the d.o.’s stable companion is
plainly running away with the race. Whether W
Delaney (on Waterfall) fooled Gough into “waiting” too
long, or Waterfall couldn’t go any faster, is not a
question to the point. Wallace’s jockey failed to
overhaul Cabin Hoy because he couldn’t realise
the slowness of the race he travelled at for the first
94-mile, when engaged in watching Waterfall ; he dis-
tressed his mount by driving him along for the next mile
at something like record-time, with no more practical
result than a bad second to Cabin Boy’s easy win. The
horse that made the running from end to end was never
in trouble, whereas W’allace and others struggled under
the whip to make up the ground they had lost.
Kallara’s jockey was the only one who seemed to guess
how things were going.
Cabin Boy’s exercise gallop for the V.R.C.
Leger was a very genuine performance. J. Delaneyj
following instructions from owner Oxenham, went away
at a good sound pace, and improved his lead along the
back of the course. Before coming to the turn for home
he took a pull at Cabin Boy, bringing him several lengths
back to the field. Rounding the turn he gave the then
second-winded animal his head and let him “ win if he
could.” Cabin Boy, as it happened, oould win in the
respectable time of Smin. lSjsecs. And didn’t Ikey Mo
cheer !
When The Bulletin’s Melbourne prophet
selected Maluma as the best of three Newmarket Handi-
cap guesses the filly was still a 20 to 1 chance. She started
first favorite at S’s, and won nearly all the way. Indeed,
it looked as though young Redfearn had brought Mal-
volio's sister too soon to the front and would be “ pipped"
at the finish. However, nothing got near enough to
bustle the leader. Within eighty yards of the post the
boy glanced nervously over his shou.der, an amateurish
weakness which fetched a cry from the Lawn of •* Keep
your head straight! ” but otherwise he rode in business-
like style.
Auraria’s bad failure in the Essendon Stakes
didn t quite prove that the Cup-winner has gone amiss,
although it brought the hopes of her Champion backers
down to freezing point. What’s the matter with Auraria,
anyway ? She gallops freely, and looks very muscular.
In the paddock, she walked without showing any sign of
lameness, or even soreness worth mentioning. Yet, after
a rousing preliminary canter, the pretty filly seemed a
trifle tender on first one, then the other of her fore-legs.
And again, she appeared to be as right as possible. All
the same, Ikey Mo and the touts were right in the assump-
tion that Auraria couldn’t win last Saturday. They knew
more than the stable.
With Auraria reckoned a hopeless case, punters,
for an inexplicable reason., laid 2 to 1 on Hova for the
Essendon Stakes. They deserved to lose their money.
Quiver, an 8 to 1 outsider, met him on 4lb. better than
their Melb. Cup handicap terms, and now is the time for
mares to show their best form. On paper, there wasn’t a
point to choose between the chances of Hova and Quiver.
It was characteristic of public opinion re turf
“ certainties” that Coil could be backed at 2 to 1 on for
the Sires Produce Stakes. On latest form it was 10 to 1
against the good thing getting beaten. Coil had proved
too fast for Maluma at Caulfield a fortnight earlier, and
Maluma had just run away from five ana thirty horses,
most of them triers in the' Newmarket Handicap. But
backers know to their cost that nothing is certain in Aus-
tralian racing.
With few exceptions, the leading Victorian
jockeys are up to their ears in debt to some “ book ” or
other. Instructions from the trainer, or owners, are the
merest farce in these cases. Ikey Mo gives the all-impor-
tant whisper which decides the policy of the horse.
The absolutely worst exhibition of riding ever
given at Flemington, within the writer’s recollection, was
achieved in the run off for the Hopeful Stakes. The boy
on Aroha, who was winning easily, sprawled himself along
the colt, on the near side, and walloped it as though he
were mad. An ironical Hebrew offered even money that
the youthful artist wouldn’t fall off.
Oxenham, who didn’t notice anything wrong
with Waterfall after the Leger, got his first intimation
that the horse was lame from Alf. Joseph. Alf’s placid
eye had spotted a screw loose.
Homespun and Budgeree were clean out of the
Newmarket Handicap race when the starting-machine
rose. Moorite—who couldn’t have won, in any case—was
also left at the post. Foliage got first away.
» » * *
Owner Oxenham, though he started two, never
expected’to win the Leger. Of the pair 1000 to 1 wouldn’t
have tempted him to back Cabin Boy. Yet the public
always fancy they can beat Ikey Mo at the game !
* * * *
The moral of the St. Leger is obvious. Any
crock can beat a champion if he gets a sufficiently long
start. The Delaney brothers, on Oxenham’s pair, com-
pletely nonplussed Gough, Wallace’s pilot. It’s the story
of Wycombe, Australian Peer, and Abercorn, in Randwick
Plate, re-told. Gough waited for Waterfall to move, but
the jock, didn’t want to move so long as Cabin Boy was
going his hardest in front. When Wallace was set at top,
Pursuit was hopeless, and once more the public fell in.
he favorite started at 2to 1 on. In the race it was 2to 1
against Gough.
* * * *
Wallace must indeed be a great colt to run the
last mile of a If and 132yds. race in 1.40, and the con-
cluding six furlongs in 1.14. It was wasted energy, too.
* « * *
It’s generally good biz to back a mare for the
Newmarket if you back the right one. The sex has scored
10 times in 23 years.
* # * *
The Newmarket field certainly lacked sprinting
brilliancy, but it was large and contained good animals of
all ages and reputations. Class asserted itself, and
Maluma’s flutter was reminiscent of Bungebah’s year,
only her victory was even more hollow. Courallie, giving
a stone, scored second for N.S.W., as Vanitas did
last year, and the unfancied Pilatus and Disparity
formed the tail of the van. The winner was
highly fancied by trainer Redfearn, whose son had a
picnic ride. As she has been more or less fancied
throughout, and was first choice, Ikey Mo was badly
Struck.
(“ Sporting Notions ” continued on page %0.)


jhe'Old Blend
WMsig
•J* A 1 s Ji/uaie SCOT cm mait
*W3*
; r £ inbui'^
CaledonianLiqueurWhisky
EH
FOSTER’S
ALE Sl stout,
WHISKY & GIN.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
W BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
M. MELACHRINO & CO.,
CAIRO,
Largest Manufacturers of the
Best Egyptian Cigarettes.
Supplied to over 200 London Clubs and
Regimental Messes.
Hand Made. Absolutely Bure.
To be had from all Leading Tobacconists.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Graham Berry’s pension may come on for
discussion before Parkes’s.
The N.S.W solidarity Labor party says
straight out that it will never consent to vote a
pension to Parkes.
How W.A. is being overdone may be
gauged by the fact that there are 2000 applicants
for billets in the Education Department
The coming S.A. election will probably pro-
duce more candidates than any previous contest.
Already 100 candidates are out for the 54 seats.
Settled that Duffy is to be the new Vic-
torian Speaker. Which will be the first Austral-
asian instance of son following father in the office.
One Yic. female telegraph-operator is re-
sponsible for the safety of £23,000 passing through
her hands every year. Her salary is just £1 os.
9|d. a week.
The Wellington (M.L.) Knights of
Labor have elected a woman as Master Work-
man for the ’96 term. Miss Lee runs a circulating
library in the windy city.
N.S.W. Premier Reid, as Solicitor-General,
is merely emphasising the iniquity of a political
Attorney-General. Law and Justice (so-called)
should be divorced from politics.
It now appears that a recent Ministerial
resignation in another province was not due to
Cabinet dissensions, but was entirely owing to
private financial troubles, as on a former Occasion.
Member of the Boodlewraith Cabinet :
“Yes, we’ve got a strong crowd, and a strong
platform. But our right-hand man is Thomas
Glassey, and our trump-card is ‘ Socialism in our
Time. ’ ”
Dr. Magarey, M. L.C., has declined the
S.A. Chief Secretaryship. If Gordon definitely
refuses to return it will be offered to Arthur
Addison, a country miller, or J. V. O’Loghlin,
editor of the S.A. Catholic paper. The fact that
the latter is of the religion is against him, as
Premier Kingston, Lands Minister Gillen, and
Govt, whip O’Loughlin are all more or less sons of
the Church.
Again the cheap and reli-
able. Recently six boys were
“recruited” at Tucopia. In
the latter part of ’95 they landed
on the Burnett, and four
promptly showed their appre-
ciation of plantation diet and
conditions by dying of dysen-
tery. The fifth gazed mourn-
fully at the majestic suite of
apartments allotted him in the
Kanaka barracks, and then (says
a local paper) “ deliberately
hanged himself. ” Hereupon the
sixtli appears to have gone mad,
for he was found plunging into
the river and swimming aim-
lessly seawards—probably mak-
ing for home again. This is the
sort of thing that is gradually
settling the Kanaka question,
and bringing Bananaland
planters to the conclusion that
perhaps sugar can be grown
with white labor, after all. You
can’t import a Kanaka slave
much under £3O, cash on de-
livery, and no man cares to fork
out 30 lovely sovereigns for a
bit of cold meat dangling at the
end of a plantation rope.
Coutts, one of the Fat Men
of Vic. Leg. Council: “We
never really go before our con-
stituents. T have been a mem-
ber of this Cnamber for 14 years
and scarcely once had an election
contest.” That is the secret of
all the trouble. A few of the
Fat Men go out every two years.
There is seldom any excitement
on at the time, so the people
don’t notice their exit, and so
few of them retire at once that
it doesn’t seem worth while
trying to shift them and to put
better men in their places ; thus
things are allowed to slide. As
often as not half the community
doesn’t even know that an
election is in progress, or
that the chance, which comes
just once in six years, for cast-
ing Sargood out on his ridiculous
head, has c-ome.
The Free trade proclivities of many parsons
are sadly undermined by the discovery that they
will be personally liable under the N.b.W. Land
and Income-tax measures. The softer sex, both
the clerical and the strictly female, adore cheap-
ness, and are Freetraders to a woman.
Q. Govt, has neatly scattered its elections
over a month, and put all the Govt, supporters
constituencies in the first batches, so as to provide
plenty of back-doors m case of defeat. In the
more advanced provinces the people have risen
against politicians who perpetrate this trick, and
thrown them out in their dishonesty.
Melb Democratic Club will probably soon
be reconstructed. The objectionable boxing ele-
ment is to be tabooed, a feasible debenture scheme
is mooted, and democratic work is at last to be
recognised as the proper object of the club, it
those now at work succeed, the club will probably
become a trysting place of Melb. sansculottes,
instead of being a target for justifiable jeers from
the enemies of democracy.
Quaint relics of last N.S.W. general elec-
tion are the remnants of two posters on South
Head road, evidently referring to the Woollahra
and Paddington contests. They now read “Neild
for Padding ” and “ Knox for Wool.”
The N.S.W. National Defence Guard, to
be founded at G. Republican Dibbs’s instigation,
will receive a large accession from Wollongong.
All the retired military men in that district have
applied for enrolment. They are —One. Newcastle
enrolls a unit also.
Mr. ARTHUR GARNER.
Photo, by Falk.
Yic. female telegraph-operators get no
increments, but the male operators do. Male in-
crements were to have been stopped some years
back, but agitation and organisation of males
(voters) put political pressure on, and they were
safe from the pruning. “ The age of chivalry ! ”
The Q. Premier “does not approve of a
treaty with Japan,” and “ notes with, satisfaction
that the number of Kanakas engaged in the sugar
industry is decreasing, whilst the area under cane
is rapidly increasing, thus showing that the white
farmers are superseding the Pacific islanders.”
Also, he states that he “favors a slight increase in
the payment of members, with a view to attract
and retain the services of competent men as repre-
sentatives.” ‘‘ When the Devil was sick,” &c.
What a wonderful political tonic is a general
election !
The curse of foreign capital is falling more
and more heavily on Mildura (Yic.) irrigation
settlement. The settlers bought their land at a
high price from Chaffey Bros., and gave mortgages
for the amounts due, the brothers contracting to
put the irrigation works in order and supply
water. The Chaffeys transferred their assets to a
company. Now it transpires that the settlers o: ■
Photo, by Noudin.
Mr. F. WEBSTER, Secretary N. S. W. Agricultural Society.
their money to the co., but that the obligation to
supply the water vests with the Chaffeys. lne
Chaffeys can’t supply the water. The co. threatens
to sell up the settlers unless they pay for the land,
which, without the water-supply, isn t worth any-
thing like the money still due, and if they are sold
UP they lose what money they have paid and
several years’hard work. Therefore they curse
the day when British capital first came to Mildura,
“We cannot do away with Party Govern-
ment. The only way is that men shall be elected
who will not make unscrupulous use of their
powers,” says Mr. Lewis, new Tory member for
Christchurch (M.L.). The gentleman may give
this subject a rest. There were never more than
two men of the kind he is looking for, and they
are both dead.
Herewith a sketch of chief-officer Stein,
who, seven years ago, created the Melbourne Met.
Fire Brigade out of chaos. Originally imported
from England to Melbourne, to take charge of the
old Insurance Companies’ Brigade, new-chum
Stein found himself in a hot and uncomfortable
place. Amateur arrangements for the alleged
purpose of suppressing conflagrations were at that
time rampant in almost every suburb. Smell-
bourne abounded in brigades. Once a year the
city witnessed a ridiculous
march round of second-hand
engines and vain - glorious
boozers, known as a demonstra-
tion, which m -rely demonstra-
ted the necessity for sweeping
reforms. When a fire broke
out, the great object of Mr.
Stein was to rush his own well-
trained body of men upon the
scene before the irresponsible
amateurs could aid the devour-
ing element by doing the things
they oughtn’t to have done,
and baulking his efforts to get
fairly on the job. Sydney has
had experience of the sort of
sufferings that Melbourne en-
dured at the hands of volunteer
fire-brigades. They mostly used
to set forth with a fixed inten-
tion of safeguarding the beer-
cellar at the expense of the
balance of the burning pre-
mises, and they came home
speechlessly drunk, in many
cases, if they met with good
luck. Superintendent Stein,
on behalf of the insurance com-
panies, fought hard against this
bad state of things for some
years. The nominal boss of all
the brigades, he, being a strong,
ready fellow with his fists,
brought main force to back
up his moral superiority. If
the salvation of a top storey
depended upon the overthrow
of a few blasphemous obstruc-
tors in brass helmets Stein
didn’t hesitate to lay ’em out,
so the public soon recognised
him as a useful man. The old
order of things came to a
climax at the famous Bijou
Theatre fire. It happened that
Stein was away from Mel-
oourne on that Easter Monday night, and in
his absence the volunteers were perhaps rather
more thirsty and uncontrollable than usual. J_ne
fixe raged in the Bijou, but refreshments abided
in the Palace Hotel adjoining the burning play-
house. The situation was faithfully depicted in
some Bulletin verses of the period —- The Mel-
bourne Fireman’s Story.”—
Besides, poor Brough and Boucicore ’ad got no beer and
So itlrops my ’ose when David shouts We d better save
the pub. !”
David was summed up in a previous verse
There’s my mate, David Feeder—ah ! a ’ero, sir, is Dave—
He’d go through fire and water solid h’eatables to save ~
And I make bold to say, sir, knowin’ well old Davey s
worth, " , ,
That at savin’ beef and pickles he’s the smartest man on
earth.
The Bijou calamity was Mr. Stein’s opportunity.
Anon he got instructions from Duncan (ililies, or
Fitz Gibbon, or some such potentate, to organise a
Metropolitan Fire Brigade, in place of his Insur-
ance Companies’ Brigade, the cost to be divided
between the Government, the various Melbourne
municipalities, and the companies aforesaid.
Whereupon he posted a circular to the volunteer
stations, requesting all enthusiasts desirous of
earning a comfortable living wage in the new con-
cern to send along their names. They all sent
along their names, and thus these amateur brigades
practically disbanded themselves. Stein, having
selected some of the most likely men started to
furnish Melbourne and suburbs with a really
efficient fire-extinguishing service. A master
of his craft and a disciplinarian, chiel-
officer Stein is clearly the right man m
the right place, and he seems to enjoy the
fullest confidence of the Board appointed to take
his reports. His telephone system of communi-
cating with suburban fire stations and public
buildings is perfect, and he shows quite a genius
in electric cont: winces for saving time when time
is most vjihri Withal, St6in is a modost public
servant, cia.nung only to be up to the mark, and
always ready to assimilate the latest improve-
ments.
The Vic. Opposition papers profess an
unprintable contempt for the Turner Administra-
tion because it has yielded to the weight of
opinion in the House m connection with matters
on which the privilege party would have liked to
see it stand hard and fast; but they are just as
mad with Turner because he is adamant in his
determination to put the unemployed on to en-
large Flinders-street station this winter, instead
of casting more new wild-cat lines in out-of-the-
way places—as the Fat interest demands, lhe
trouble is not that Turner vacillates, but that he
does not vacillate at the nod of “ Proputty.
The excellent bromide photo, of Carrie
Moore and Ivy Scott, published in a recent
Bulletin, was from the Melbourne studio of
Charlemont and Co. Through an oversight the
name of the photographer was not published with
the picture.
A lot of people are waiting to see how the
N.S.W. Public Service Commission regards the
dual-big-billet system. As an instance, the case
of Dr. Anderson-Stuart,
who draws something
like ,£lBOO a year as
a University Pro-
fessor, and, in
addition, “hogs’
the office of
Govt. Chief Me-
dical Adviser.
A University
professorship,
one would think,
ought to suffice,
both as regards
occupation and
money, for any
man who di<*
his duty.
MELB. FIRE-BRIGADE SUPERINTENDENT STEIN.
I The Mr. Cuthbert whose name cropped up
in a spicy portion of the Lormer Board inquiry,
and who was called as a witness but didn t ap-
pear, is in no way connected with Vic. Solicitor-
General Cuthbert. Unfounded rumors to the
contrary merely indicate the tone of Melbourne
public opinion re the Lormer Board scandal. The
Crown has shown no eagerness to do its duty,
wherefore any little coincidence that looks like a
possible reason for this official torpor arouses sus-
picion.
Mr. George Black, M.P., writes :
The N.S.W. Labor-party, assembled for the purpose,
decided to run a candidate for election to the Public
Works Committee ; then, almost without dissent, they
decided that their select, if also the select of Parliament,,
should donate half his fees to propaganda work. This
condition being made absolute, four nominations were re_
eeived, including the names of Messrs. M'Gowan and
Cann. Together they did not poll more than half the
votes that I received individually, but neither of the two
can honestly attribute defeat to prior declarations that
they would not, if elected, abide by the Party’s decision
re fees. Such matters concern the Party only, but so
many garbled statements have been made by the jealous
and still further distorted by the malicious that I think
self-defence justifies me in making these facts public.
N.S.W. “Education” Garrard: “The
Ministers are modest men. I will content myself
by saying, ‘ By their works ye shall know them. ’
Q. Attorney-General Byrnes has done his
best to put Boodlewraith’s fat in the fire over the
North Brisbane election. He was member for the
Chinese constituency of Cairns, which he pro-
mised in so many words “ never to desert until it
deserted him,” but he threw it over without a
blush and told “the Party” that he must stand
for North Brisbane. The Orange section of the
Political Ass, knowing the constant endeavors of
the R.C. hierarchy to upset undenominational
State education, didn’t relish Byrnes one bit. No
more did Tozer, scenting a struggle for the Pre-
miership. But Byrnes has had his way ; and he
and Kingsbury—a Govt, lay figure with a plausible
tongue —are accredited candidates for the chief
metropolitan constituency.
One of the concessions demanded by the
Outlanders at Johannesburg, it will be remem-
bered, was that the teaching of English should lie
permitted in the public-schools. The following
snuffle, from a Dutch paper, is the chastened wail
of a local farmer who had been eaten out by
locusts :
God was very just in my punishment, for, had my
children not learnt English and been to a dance, the
Omnipotent would not have punished me in this way.
This epitomises exactly the views held by some
of the Boers on the subject of allowing any lan-
guage or ideas other than Dutch to take root in
the Transvaal.
Now, lookee, Holy Jacob, look !
You think you’re quoting' from “ the Book”?
Not so. ‘‘The Book ” your question burkes;
It (lon’t identify by “ works ; ”
But says (if aught the question boots)
That one should know ’em “ by their fruits."
But would you, Jacob, mid your “perks,”
Be really sized up by your “ works ” ?
Then let your pride swell if it will,
And go and gaze on Tucker Hill.
The Unemployed of Eyeglass brand
For grocer tickets -shifting sand !
It’s g-ood ? Yes, for the groceree—
A grosser humbug couldn’t be.


k \ /V/JTK e!
j The Lady' /vfi' ni%Tei-
li now heady
l ~tb receive, cieh utoPiom ,
//if ZacY/es c/iese a// 7/e
Ii f oocl /oof/ny a nc/ 71/cc
A ones 7/0/71 & 7770 n
M Y/ie/TL fp p O / /72
7f Si'&ur su.sceftti'/■>/<>,
77 jets a t 'TL,-Varied.
Pir/ZA 7/ie cortsecrz*. e Inc e ~/l ~/A
po/~ ayf Y/?</??7e/nbe/~s ™
ct/l' tok 7-id <xnc? secuzeci ‘
ari uici-e menhturA/'cTx,
Jta d/d Kot 7h />? /< i/je^
~w~ere &n7/'Z7eU /T. "' *
~7es/7/aa/es-fe h Du/ff,
rfttoj- ir/i/th joes, /f "
faSe.
fi±f~hybrid W-ortiansi
*Me4. n*,s7^
Jetncde 7n/n/ s^.
Zo cZea/
A>zerty
* T>ecmon of PfirffioU .7?M*
; * - / '
Jj/ofeJ f ' // ztrei-e
L, /«’*“■
** -f/icr‘, -A"'
™r*r>7‘ >u ’
uri/t 6e ' r ““J'„
eat-ef” 1
] we)c/~fSo*- s/^
X \' According to. [
s\ Dr. Gresswell, Mr. Fitz Gibbon is giving
, us sewage to drink, with the full knowledge
V of, the noisome stuff of which he is the
/ purveyor. The water which runs into the
/ Yan Yean is “ loaded with organic matter
// “in a state of putridity,” *
TO/fCtessurelL Look
//f here / f/kz, M/’i /s\
/?&Scr?*,'/>/e J/ou/
Yam- Yean tyv~cL~fe/\
'/tray o&ti yoct j
; S€€ P , /77 en&a&ed
[ 07? CZ 77707
u /mY)/77'/a77 / ~
, / 77/af/e/-'
Mr. G. TURNLR said the clause as origin-
ally drafted was—“ Chinese includes persona
having a Chinese father 'or* mother.*’ At
the instance of Mr. Staughton balf-caates
hAd been excluded, and the form of expres-
sion was now very awkward. But if the
amendment were adopted it would throw on
the inspectors the onus of proving that the
I persons had a Chinese father or mother,
whioh would be impossible, as such evidence
j could only be got in China.
Mr. MURRATc SMlTH.—Supposing a man
says he is not a Chinese, how are you goinz
to prove it ? *
J/eTel/p/meP/r 7)/e .
rf/*”') ea ■ -0!7l/ln
' Jann / ctoTi£' y 0
A YA/,i/< of. J> aa/ -
Vv r 9/ •'
T\"Tf Safe. Act 7tc/a/-3 a j
S'**-kbits'Retire
Ikee 7i Jee/i A eectirxi
ry e 7Ae,-'LA4ur>frJ t
Aciv-Yte /-*&£,•/?
'Mnt/9 Y/f e ur/,- e
'/■e. 7i a e s.
MOSTLY MELBOURNIAN.


// Aypr/e/' - /?/</ J
A 7 /y /raj /a ay
‘Tay *//'&* jot^ x
yctc ? mn/^%7^
1 1 !v f W/j'My; 7#&-
f/fp / /p? tfZ' / /z I £?i\
y&/tZp/~ £' <?/? \
/ .
mT ' *
~7%j0k. 4y*4s'7&'‘‘* r
//As/jg " J/S/y&f' ffa/s }• p# /g/ta /£yay/Ays <pp. "
k A&^-
fi ,^ m
»/
r ' L ofor Q-
..
PCf-
|jfck V
/art* a A/acj /faf u&u&f
Cjjy/jf py Jfy/p/wss/ps/zAr " <7/7
~ fra 7tfarfc77o^J
[ff
/**/fritseJr&for— / jayypatrtf
7/7/ /Tz&fo y #7/-
I/ffttfty /'/fays-' /&/r yaZUttf
deserMf #«/jfcty&a/fay y "
d/jfr A ypaf/ZS afasy
rtc jfyd’tf/pc* 7y<y <Z/*A /''
4/ '2^ y//v*
/i Wa£p//»<?#■ /£// y aw/- ■ * stems /a/zcfaw/btA? //£/>-''
Z~ (//k/ j y?#/ //fry&/y'cffsss~ tf/*/fared#/? ?
£.//.&■ jdfartpjf'/p/Zrs/y A<o/ / "
THE N.S.W. LANDANINKUM TAX.


THE BILLY TEA
Is the Finest Tea ever Sold at its Price.
IT HAS A LA KG EU SALE THAN ANY
PACKET TEA IN AUSTRALIA.
It is Used hy all Classes of the Community.
it is always the Sams and Never Disappoints
The Sales Exceed a TON per DAY.
•TAMES INGLIS & CO,
I)jan's P’.arc, SYDNEY. S ’le Proprietors.
Sa w in ills, En g i ne s,
WOODWORKING MAOHINEHY.
FINE CARRIAGES and WAGGONS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, &c.
WILLIAM PLEMIUG,
24 Clarence Street SYDNEY.
mmm
0-0 TO IHIIELL-
-IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
yratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin &Ca),
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Henry Lawson’s book of collected verses,
containing all his best Bulletin poems, may be
had post-free from this office for ss. sd. in stamps
or postal-notes of any province.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” possesses the power of
reparation when digestion has been disturbed or
lost through alcoholic drinks, fatty substances or
want of exercise. If its great value in keeping
the body in health were universally known, no
family would be without it. Sold by all chemists
and stores.*
Personal Items.
Mr. Frank Wrench, late of Sydney, now
holds a commission in the Chinese army.
Of Melb. Stock Exchange’s first roll of 32
only Gavin Brown and J. S. Butters remain.
Mountmorganaire Tom Hall has now
settled in London and lives in Berkeley Square.
Gov. Brassey, during his recent Hobart
visit, fell out with Gov. Gormanston. Nobody
knows how they fell out, or why ; but they did
fall out.
From Adelaide Evening Journal
The Recognition op Women’s Rights —Mrs. Mary Lee,
who has been one of the foremost workers in the cause of
women’s rights, has been appointed a visitor to the lunatic
asylums.
The ever-dignified A’ic. Chief Justice
Stawell would have stared to see his favorite
pupil, Judge Hodges, as now visible daily in
Collins-street, on a bicycle.
Photo, by Beavis Bros
The Late Mr. J. B. GRAHAM , P.M.
The alleged portrait of Higinbotham
after being stowed away for months, has now been
hung in Melb. Supreme Court library, and
should be viewed by all who wish to see what the
revered Democrat wasn’t like.
Buckley, K.C.M.G., was allowed at Wel-
lington (M.L.) to take his seat on the Supreme
Court Bench for the first time in an ominous dead
silence, though the Bar was there in force. Which
looks bad for both Bench and Bar.
The numerously-signed petitions for N.S.
Wales Justice Windeyer’s removal, which were
never presented through the illogical reaction of
the popular mind when Dean confessed, are locked
up in the Sydney Safe Deposit vaults.
Gov. Brassey sends along a cheque for £25
to the Trenwith fund. The aristocracy in politics
has also come down pretty liberally, it being
understood that the Vic. Labor-leader will have
his eyes opened in “ Urup,” don’t you know.
Mr. John Cooper, brother of the baronet,
and principal owner of at least one of the divisions
of the Cooper estate, is again in Sydney. A new
policy of dealing with some of the vast Cooper
interests is expected to be introduced —and not
before it is needed.
Journalist Whitaker, formerly sub-editor
of the defunct Melb. Standard, now on Wes-
tralian Hansard, has signed a contract with that
smart young man Calvert (and valet) for a four
months’ trip to England to write up the goldfields,
the sum to be paid being £5OO.
Laureate Austin, the penny-in-the-slot
poet, is entitled, since his election to the position
of kept-bard, to draw all the back-salary since
Tennyson’s death, also the arrears of sack. There
is a precedent for this in the case of Dryden. Pre-
sumably Austin wrote “Jameson’s Ride” after
drinking all the accumulated sack.
It was said that Princess Beatrice brought
about the appointment of Alfred Austin as Poet
Laureate, in order that there might be an official
bard to glorify the valor of her Battenberg when
that luckless warrior came back from Africa. Poor
Battenberg returned in a wooden ulster, and Austin
was required to chant a requiem.
What became of the privately-printed
pamphlet of the great Geelong scandal, owned by
J. Bracebridge Wilson, late headmaster of the
Geelong Grammar School ? It was not seen
amongst his books as catalogued for sale ; and
scores of pounds would not buy it. It is be-
lieved, if Wilson’s copy has disappeared, that not
one now exists.
Humored that Gov. Brassey will take a
trip to England next year ; also, that about the
same time he will ask the Colonial Office to relieve
him of the rest of his term at Melb. Guvmentouse.
The. bazaars, and agricultural shows, and tea-
meetings are said to be damping the Brassey
ardor, an 1 it will only be the delay of that much-
desired earldom which will make the serious old
gentleman continue his course in Vic.
Mrs. Hannah Hall, relict of James Hawkes-
bury Hall, formerly of Macquarie Retreat,
Hawkesbury River, who died on 19th Feb., and
had reached her 90th year, is believed to have
been the oldest N.S.W. native. She was born at
Portland Head, Hawkesbury River, in Nov., 1806.
Brokenhillionaire George M‘Culloch will
shortly take possession of the palace he has built
in Queen’s Gate, London. It is estimated that the
value (or at any rate the cost) of the works of art
he has bought runs into £ 120,000. But it is not
often that art dealers get a chance of shearing a
Broken Hill fleece.
It is now known that the donor of the
splendid dome to Brompton Oratory, which
must have cost over £5OOO, is Mrs. Bellasis
(late Campsie-Dalglish) nee de Lauret, of
N.S.W. It is one of the most conspicuous land-
marks in London. Mrs. Dalglish’s former husband
got into Broken Hills early and made a big pile.
The death is announced of Vice-Admiral
Robinson, brother of Sir Hercules of that ilk.
Deceased was on the Australian station in the late
60’s or early 70’s as commander of H.M.S.
Pioneer, and married a daughter of the late Mr.
William Bradley, of Sydney and elsewhere in
N.S.W., for which slice of fortune he was indebted
to Lady Robinson, who was a great match-maker.
Habitue : “ Assiduous Gagliardi would be
impossible as Melb. public librarian only because
he is too foreign, and not mobile like another
Italian, Panizzi, the London man. The librarian
ought to be a youngish but mature Australian, sent
round just to see the British Museum, Parisian
Bibliotheque Nationale Boston Public Library,
and the Chicago one. ”
Ex- Premier Parkes, who has lately had to
contend with many rebuffs, took his gruel at
Waverley very badly. Although he spoke up
sp'ritedly from the hustings, and said he was just
as pie sed he had not been elected —his usual gag
—tad old man broke down completely immediately
after, and has since been in a weak and uncertain
state of health.
J ustice Holroyd is more than respected by
the Victorian lawyers. The other day the follow-
ing scene took place :
Ooldham : “ But your Honor’s all wrong-”—(then after
a pause)—“with respect.”
Holroyd (anxious to get at the real facts): “ Never
mind the respect! ”
Coldham : “ But I can’t help it, your Honor.”
Whereupon those in court almost said “ Hooray!”
“ T. M. Sheridan, the abortionist,” writes
a Bulletin correspondent from Queensland, “ was
at one time a chemist on the Roma-Dalby line,
and was favorably known to hundreds, and gener-
ally esteemed as one < f the kindest of men.
Fever was raging there during Sheridan’s time —a
man died for almost every sleeper on the line—
and the ministering angel to many a poor, parched
and dying navvy was the man who lately paid the
last penalty of the law in the city of Sydney.
Night and day, wet and sunshine, Sheridan
tramped from tent to tent; money, or no money,
he always supplied medicine ; till, weary of it all,
he left the West—wandered South and died—a
felon 1 ”
Photo, by Brand
“ bob ” FITZSIMMONS, Champion Pugilist of the World.
Bird, J.P., confessing his weakness for “re-
forming ” soiled doves to the Lormer Enquiry
Board, was humorous, but not as humorous as Bird
subsequent to the event. When the giddy old man
was loosed from his examination, after having
been fairly “roasted” by witnesses and counsel
alike, he rejoined his friends, quite proud and
happy, saying, “Didn’t I come through flying,
eh? Didn't I come through flying?” He was
fully persuaded that his irrelevant ravings con-
cerning his ancestors, and so forth, had distracted
the Board’s attention from his magisterial eccen-
tricities.
Phil. Greenwood, over eight years secre-
tary to the Firm, is almost knocked out by illness,
and early this month takes a trip to England to
recruit his health. Phil, has always been a good
fellow, and an earnest worker for charities,
especially for distressed actors’ fetes. Now that
his dark day is on him, his friends are rallying up
and filling a purse with sovereigns. Clifford
Ferley is hon. sec. and Geo. Tallis hon. treasurer,
and both will be glad to send their autographs in
return for a shekel.
By the recent rather sudden death of Mr.
J. B. Graham, P.M., of Bathurst, Suffield, con-
victed of criminal assault before Judge V indeyer
and sentenced to ten vears’ imprisonment, will lose
a good friend ; for the deceased magistrate made
no secret of his emphatic belief in Suffield s
innocence. Mr. Graham, a bachelor of 54 years,
and a nephew of “ Jack ” Robertson, had many of
the best traits of that old warrior, and was
esteemed by all who knew him as an able, humane
and fearless magistrate.
Once again N.S.W. litigants are suffering
from the indifferent health of the Judges. Judge
Windeyer is at present away on a health-c-wm-
holiday tour; Judge Manning is rusticating at
Bowral, and not likely to be in harness before
April ; Judge Innes, who has just concluded a
spell off, is still in weak health, and may have to
leave at any moment; and Judge Stephen is just
back from a year’s holiday. About the only really
robust occupant of the Bench is the Chief-J ustice.
Since Parkes’s third marriage, so goes the
story, Edmund Barton and the old man have been
rather less friendly. It was to Barton that
Barkes communicated, in writing, an emphatic
denial of the rumor that he was going to marry
for the third time ; and the former, with charac-
teristic justice and good nature, nailed the rumor
whenever it cropped up, only to discover after-
wards that the gay old boy had been “ pulling his
leg.”
Ballington Booth, who, it is cabled, has
now caved in, took the stand of his predecessor,
“ Major ” Moore, in the U.S. When “ General ”
Booth recalled Moore, the latter flatly refused to
come and tried to form an American Army, but
ignominiously failed. “ Colonel ” Barker had such
a pull in Australia that he refused, when first called
on, to shift, and had to be humored awhile.
Booth’s sons appear to be shaping like those of
the Indian or Afghan potentates —the Abdur
Rahmans and Yakoob Begs.
Mr. F. AVebster, the energetic secretary of
N.S.W. Agricultural Society, is the first white
man born in Victoria Barracks, Sydney; his
father was Captain Webster, of the 11th Regi-
ment. When first he was secretary —13 years ago
—the society’s annual “ gate ” totalled but £9oo—
it is £2400 ; the sole catering right cost but
£2o—now £450 wouldn’t buy it; the show’s
entrance fees reached only £70 —now they total
£5OO. Mr. Webster ’cutely seized the cycling
boom the moment it presented its forelock; he
laid down a modern fast banked track, and
invested the N.S.W. wheelmen’s money in a new
grand-stand on the Webster estate. He has
arranged for all the Australasian Governors to
appear at the big April show—at the expense of
the N.S.W. Governor. He is now working up a
magnificent military tournament for “ the show,’
and expects contingents from all the provinces.
On opening day all the Governors will arrive with
a gorgeous guard of honor, and the sec. will
receive them with his hat off, as shown in the
photo, printed in this issue.
Amongst the Jameson filibusters
captured by the Boers is Gordon
Grimes, the younger son of “Jemmy”
Grimes, formerly of Toowoomba, Q.
He was in the Bechuanaland Police, a
corps lately disbanded, and joined in
Jameson’s unsuccessful raid.
G. P. Doolette, the somewhat
pious erstwhile Adelaide man who is
making such a splash in London, and
is reputedly a millionaire, drew his
initial success out of Broken Hills.
He was a humble trader in King Wil-
liam-street, Adelaide, when “ Sammy”
Beddome, then Adelaide P.M. and now
a wealthy man himself, put him at a
low price into original Brokens, which
he sold out at the very top of the
boom. Doolette has purchased a big
cattle-station in 8.A., and intends to
eventually settle down as a horse-
breeder.
Carping critics profess to be
mystified by John Haynes’s published
correspondence on Japanese and other
leathers. But John, M.P., was not
the first of his name to print senti-
ments of occult significance. “John
Haynes informs the public that he
possesses the true means of making
leather breeches sit easily,” is said to
be the cryptograph which led Gan-
ganelli to suppress the Jesuits. John,
M.P.’s letter on the boot-trade may
cover a plot for the deportation of
Cardinal Moran.
Henniker Heaton’s proposal,
reported to have been accepted, that a
banner emblazoned with the arms of
the Metropolitan See of Australia
should be hung near the cenotaph of
Bishop Broughton, in Canterbury
Cathedral, recalls the fact that that
bishop, when in Sydney, initiated a
movement in public protest against
the Roman Catholics of N.S. Wales
being allowed to form a See, or possess
a ruler with the title of Archbishop.
Polding was at that time setting up
house, and the modest Broughton, who
was also a bit of a politician, and sat
in the Legislative Council, claimed to
be the sole head of Christian Australia.
“Does ‘the Banjo’ smoke ?” enquires a
lady correspondent of The Bulletin. “It is
noted as a curious thing that throughout his book,
‘ The Man from Snowy River,’ he does not men-
tion tobacco or a pipe. The BulleHn (Feb. 9,
’95) mentioned, in a note on Gordon, that ‘ the
pipe is closest to his heart of all,’ and said:
‘ Every bush poet puts his pipe—and his horse
and a woman—into his poetry.’ ‘The Banjo’
puts a whole stud of horses into his book, and not
a few women, but where is the pipe?” “The
Banjo ” does smoke.
The story goes in London, says a Bulletin
correspondent, that the action brought by Mrs.
Langtry for the recovery of her diamonds from
the Union Bank of London will be a cause celebre,
if not squared, as the brilliants are alleged to be
the family jewels of a certain nobleman, and are
said to have been obtained from Mrs. Langtry’s
bank by a ruse on the part of that nobleman’s
countess —a very beautiful woman, who years ago
ran away from her former husband, was divorced
by him, and then she married her friend the noble-
man. If the rumors current are all true, the lady
is now reaping the whirlwind. ,
Wullie M’Millan, M.P., presided at the
t’other-day Sydney Town Hall meeting, at which
the Irish corps of volunteers was enrolled. In
manners, canniness, looks, and name, the perky,
brainy little Mac is as Scawtcn as Scawtch can be,
but he has a claim to ca’ himsel an Irisher, and he
kens how to use it. M’Millan’s Irish tie is of
“the black North,” and his father, Gibson
M‘Millan was a meenister at Londonderry—the
town that was never captured ! Con^^ u h entl 7’
Wullie was well-placed, presiding over the broths
of boys whose memories cling to the South
the Slatterys, Freehills, Daltons, Tooheys, and
O’Hooligans.
Mr. PHIL GREENWOOD.
John Deasy, formerly M.P. for West
Mayo, who visited Australia some years ago with
Baronet Esmonde and John Dillon, is dead. He
is best remembered in N.S.W. by a love-affair in
Maitland district, in the course of which he
charged the local postmaster with tampering with
his letters. The official was acquitted by a Royal
Commission which elicited, amongst other things,
that a lady concerned had, per aid of steam, peeped
into the contents of the love-missives, and quietly
squelched the intended match. At ’Ome Mr.
Deasy fell foul of a “ slavey ” who charged him
with assault, for which he was duly fined, and, as
a consequence, he resigned his seat in Parliament
and retired into private life.
It is not regarded as complimentary (writes
“J. Drayton ” to Sydney Truth) to refer to any
Westralian gentleman as a descendant of one of
the first families. The founder of one of the first
families came here to stay, because it was not
clearly proved that it was he who cut the head off
the captain of the ship when the crew mutinied.
But someone must have done it. Because when
the mate dived into the flesh-pot to pick out a
nice fat piece of beef for his mid-day meal, it was
the captain’s head which grinned at him on the
hook of the searching-fork. The mate was of
opinion someone killed the captain, and was
strengthened in this opinion by the reflection that
he was not the kind of man who would have cut
his head off and put it on to cook for a lark.”
Concerning Peacock, of the Yic. Ministry,
and his laugh. That undisciplined burst of merri-
ment has long been a luncheon institution at
Melb. Stock Exchange Club, where other mem-
bers, by way of protecting against disturbances
during meal-time, would rap upon the table with
their knife-handles every time Peacock gave
tongue. Apparently Peacock’s hide is thinner
than might be supposed. The table-rapping
practice touched his dignity, and the order, “ Let
no dog bark when a Crown Minister shrieks,”
was served privately upon the club’s manager. A
few days ago Peacock laughed as usual, but only
two members retaliated with their knife-handles,
all the other lunchers sitting wrapped in thought
as though they had heard nothing dreadful
going on. Presently, when the companion
of these two delinquents was hurrying
away to keep an appointment, the manager
stuck him up with a request “ not to rap upon the
table every time the Chief Secretary laughs.”
The member thus appealed to happens to be a
solemn-eyed city man, for whom Vic. politicians
possess very little glamour. He slowly placed the
manager under observation and said: “ I unfor-
tunately forgot to knock just now, but I am glad
of the present opportunity to mention that Mr.
Peacock’s noise is a nuisance. Kindly tell Mr.
Peacock that, for the future, I will never permit
his scandalous tumult to pass without administer-
ing a counter-irritant with a knife, fork, or spoon.
Kindly put my resolution in writing and give it to
brother member Peacock before he can further
annoy the peaceable supporters of this club.”
Whereupon the manager gasped in horror, and the
injured protestor retired gracefully.
REUBEN KEIRL AND JUDGE HODGES.
A sinless Judge
AVho simply draws his screw,
And feels he’s one of God’s elect.
What should he know of Reu ?
THAT JINGO JINGLE.
Poet Austin, so they say,
Gets five bob or so a day ;
But his poem of the Raid
Makes us think he’s overpaid.


“ tits tirzr: a glove."
THOMSON’S
m,/k
LIKE
GLO ' E
"CLOVE-FITTING”
CORSET
The Perfection of Shape
Finish, and Durability.
APPROVED by the
whole polite world.
Annual Sale over
One Million
Fairs.
To be had of all Dealers
throughout the Worl 1.
Twelve Fibst Medals.
MANUFACTURERS.
W. S. THOMSON & CO., LTD., LONDON.
gee that every Corset is marked “THOMSON'S GLOVE-
FITTING," and bears our Trade Mark, the Crown.
No others are genuine.
WORLD-WIDE POPULARITY.
•■■ABC<g) MAM '*■»
EXTRA CONCENTRATED I
„sSSS>,
Blossoms
177 NEW BOKOS’LOMOnJ
THE DELICIOUS
PERFUME
GRAB APPLE
BLOSSOMS
> ’
AND THE
CROWN
LAVENDER
SALTS,
ANNUAL SALES EX-
CEED 500,000 BOTTLES
IGO
erS
PQFUwirCm
No articles of the toilet have ever been produced which have
been received with the enthusiasm which hus greeted the
Crab Apple Blossom Perfume end the Crown Lavender
Salts. They are literally the delight of two continents, ;nd
are as eagerly sought in New York and Paiis as in London.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE CROWN PERFUMERY CO.,
177, New Bond Street, London.
Sold t.y Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCUTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)
fcL <h*i&
b MCTW L'nnrrt
St. John’s Works, W.P., LONDON,
Government Notices.
** Land and Income Tax Assessment
Act of
NOTICE is hereby given, under section 30 of
the above Act, that Returns of Raced
and Income for the purposes of the assessment
of Land and Income Tax are required to be fur-
nished to the Commissioners of Taxation, at their
Office, on or before the 27th day of Mar h,
1896; and all persons who are owners of
land, or in receipt of income, and all persons
liable under the provisions of the Act in
any representative capacity to furnish re-
turns for the purposes, aforesaid, are hereby
informed that the prescribed forms of returns, ex-
cept those for Companies, are now available, and
may be obtained on application at any Post
Office, Police Office, Custom House, Rail-
way Station, and the Office of any Clerk of
Petty Sessions in New South Wales, Stamp
Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at
the Taxation Office. Custom House, Sydney.
Forms for Companies can be obtained at the
Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at
the Taxation Office, Custom House, Sydney.
All owners of land are required to furnish
Returns of the whole of the lands owned by
them, notwithstanding that the value of such
lands, or any portion thereof, is below the ex-
empted amount of <£24o.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or
profession on their own account are required to
furnish Income Returns irrespective of the amount
of their income; but no Return of Income is
required from any person in receipt of
Salary or Wages only, if the gross annual
amount of such salary or wages does not exceed
<£2oo.
Public attention is called to the fact that a
penalty of Twenty Pounds is imposed on any
person neglecting to furnish the return required of
him within the time above mentioned, and that
persons failing to furnish such return are not
relieved from liability to the penalty by reason
only that they may have received no notice to fur-
nish the return, or that the prescribed form may
not have been delivered to them.
JAMES POWELL,‘'I
R. N. JOHNSON,
L. S. SPILLER,
Commissioners
of Taxation.
Land and Income Tax Office,
Custom House, Sydney,
20th February, 1896.
Particular attention is called to the observa-
tions and directions on the Forms of Return.
L Y O B U M THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson and
Musgrove.
THURSDAY, March 5, and FRIDAY, March 6,
“MA MIE ROSETTE.”
At 10.20 will be presented the Magniflc nt New Series of
TABLEAUX VIVANTS.
SATURDAY, March 7, for the First Time in Australia,
“MISS DECIMA.”
No Free List. Prices as Usual. Early Doors Is. extra.
Photos from Life .
Beautiful Studies of Female Figures (draped and un-
draped), for Artists or Collectors, taken direct from
famous French and Italian LIVING models. Large
assortment, various positions, symmetrical figures. Abso-
lutely true to Nature. Exquisite sample photo., mounted
on special bevell-d card, and price-list on receipt of 12d.
colonial stamps. Very uncommon ; truly life-like.
‘l'lie Art I 3!! oto. Co..
93 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MADAME PALMA
(SCIENTIFIC PALMIST),
18 Sydney Arcade, King Street, Sydnev.
Write or Call for Particulars.
Information can be supplied from an Impression or
Photograph of the Hand.
Numerous Testimonials from Celebrities and Others.
IJIHEATHE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING 1
The Dramatic Event of the Century—the Sensational,
Romantic. Spectacular Drama,
“THE LAND OF THE MOA.”
Written hy Mr. George Leitch.
GREAT REALISTIC TABLEAUX.
Popular Prices.] W. M'LEAN, Business Manager
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry JHckards' Neiv Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
GO High-Class Performers GO
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, U 1 Is ; Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rpHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Aoting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO.
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan's.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
NICHOLSON & CO.
Have Removed from the Corner King and George Streets, to their
New and Elegant Premises,
NEXT EQUITABLE BUILDING,
Sydney.
THE
Finest Piano & Music Warehouse in the Southern Hemisphere.
Note the New Address: Next Equitable Building'.
Positively the Best Dressing
EDwaßDS>pe
EME
m
hen
w
Sc
o
tfr* >o
FOR
PRESERVING & BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Line.
“HARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling OH and Turning Gray.
Unequalled fnr Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to he devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson's Testimony.
Ackw'orth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1 /-, 2 (i and (triple 2/6 size) 4 G per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” CO.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C.
Year Book of Australia.
JUST
PUBLISHED.
1896.
THE
JUST
PUBLISHED.
1896.
15 tlx Year.
The acknowledged Authority on all Australian Subjects .
CONTAINS:
Events of Past Year, Reviews, Finances and Statistics, Lands, Minerals, Postage, Telegraph, Money
Order and Gazetteers, Railways, Tramways, Sporting, Administrative and Legislative, Ecclesiastical,
Legal Medical, Military, Naval, Commercial, Banking, Building Societies Insurance Companies
Industrial and New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Victoria, Western Australia, and
their Metropolitan Cities.
Price, 10/6 _A.II Booksellers, Post, 11,4
A.ll Booksellers,
SYDNEY
Amusements.
TT E R M A j E S"f Y~S.
Sole Lessees .. Messrs. Woods & Marshall.
Manager .. Mr. Alfred Woods.
PHENOMENAL AND INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS.
“MONTE CRIST O.”
In which Australia’s Favorite, ALFRED DAM PIER,
scored a distinct slice ssin his renowned impersonation of
Edmond Dantes, supported by Her Majesty’s Company.
Popular Prices of Admission. Box Plan at Nicholson
J. L. LE BRETON, Acting Manager.
rp HEA T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. C. B. Westmacott
Treasurer and Bus. Manager .. Mr. Frank Barnes.
7.45 EVERY EVENING 7.45
“The Enemy’s Camp.”
Saturday, March 7, “THE LANCASHIRE LASS.’’
Prices-3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Theatre. Bookim)
Fee, 6d.
QRITERION THEATRE] SYDNEY.
Sixth Week of our Comedy Season.
OUR THIRD PRODUCTION. ANOTHER TRIUMPH
ACHIEVED.
“ Wanted, a Wife. ”
(Written by George Darrell.)
Received with Shrieks of Laughter and Spontaneous
•Bursts of Applause.
WILFRED E. SHINE, RALPH ROBERTS, supported
by the Criterion Comedy Comedy.
Under the Special Patronage and Presence of the Two
Teams, South Australia and New South Wales.
Popular Prices.] W. J. WILSON, Bus. Manager.
LiiXANIIUA THEATRE, MELIIOU ItXE.
Under the management of Mr. Dan Barry.
EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS OF
DAN BARKY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
In the Thrilling, Realistic, World-famed Drama,
“ Ten Nights in a Bar lloom.”
Popular Prices— 2s, Is, and 6d.
DUNCAN MACALLUM, Agent.
jpLBOfKNE TO WN HALL
Mondag, Oth March.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency the
Governor and Lady Brassey.
FAREWELL COMPLIMENTARY CONCERT
TO
Miss Bertha Rossow
(Prior to her departure for England).
Generously assisted by Mrs. Palma, Miss Ida
Osborne, Miss Sara Lewis, Miss Grace Kemp,
Miss Bertha E. Emanuel, Miss Florence Lewis,
Signor Buzzi, Mr. Armes Beaument, Mr. Ernest
Fitts, Mr. W. E. Nott, and the Lyric Orchestra.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
jpRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
Sub-Lessees and Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
TONIGHT! TO-NIGHT!
B. C. Stephenson and W. Yardley's Farcical Comedy,
“ THE PASSPORT.”
Bex Plan at Allan’s. J3P” PRICES AS USUAL
In Active Preparation, “ FEDORA.”
Missing Friends.
George Alexander bell, formerly
of Bundaberg (Q.), and recently of Bris-
bane, Ipswich and Southport (Q.), will benefit
by communicating with CHAS. F. NIELSON,
Solicitor, Bundaberg, Q.
Medical.
ARTIFICIAL PERFUMES"
CAUTION !
Messrs. J. & E. ATKINSON warn
their customers against the Artificial
Chemical Perfumes at present so
extensively offered. Though strong
they are nasty , and from a hygienic
point of view their use is to he strongly
deprecated.
ATKINSON'S “ NATURAL ” PERFUMES
are made from flowers, and posses 5 all their
natural fresh sweetness. They cannot be
surpassed either in delicacy or strength.
ATKINSON'S “WHITE ROSE,”
‘A charming scent ’-H.R.H.TheDuchess ofYork.
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St., London.
Registered. A positive
and speedy CURE tot
Consumption,
Catarrh, Colds,
and all Pulmonary Affections.
Trice, 53. pe ’
bottle posted.
ALFKKO J. FLEGG,
Box 642, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
A New Music Wareiiouse.
W. H, CLEN & CO.,
MUSIC-SELLERS & PUBLISHERS
(WHOLESALE & RETAIL), and
Importers of Pianos, Organs, Music,
And every description of Musical Instruments, have much pleasure i
in announcing that they have
At those Centrally-situated Premises, No. 369 GEORGE STREET, next door but taro to Messrs. David Jones & Co., and nearly opposite the General Post Office.
W H. GLEN & CO. respectfully invite Inspect.cn to their splcnd d Stock of PIANOS by all the most renowned makers, and
their Great Speciality, tllC Famous BLUTHNER PIANOS.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK of SHEET and BOOK MUSIC.
PIANOS and ORGANS on VERT EASY TERMS. Catalogues gratis to any address.
xr GLEN & CO., 359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
W. 272 and „ 74 CO IItNS STRI.ET, MELBOURNE.


JTrQSSARD*
- 1
*
3®
o
:
V
1
,
C<\
JV
Kl
<P
£
I
%
«
li
FRflSSA'Rorv
, (p> LLi Tr °
*=
§S
O
try.
W**
:JL
P
i 1
P
.;
ax
"T~
&£r
CX '
51-
\
tA'
v <
&
Fragrant
I-1
i m
¥
ui
V 2
m
ISM
41.
Pack ets
t-on ° "5//
I Mil
r»
A
r .'■
im
A
Jl
a
P 4
pr
? \
C/i i,
Packets
p
11 1
OF
FOR r
IT
ic\^
/
/
.oSMILD -po,
7RAGRANT
PACKETS
8;’. v-
EARLY ANTICIPATIONS.
POURING IN.
Millinery,
Mantles,
Dress
For the Winter Fashions
Goods,
Fal-de-lals and Frippery.
At MARK FOY’S.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SOUS,
Direct Importers & Manufacturers of Hats & Caps.
3b2 George-st., Sydney, and Qneen-st., Brisbane.
LADIES’ SArLOIiS.
Made to Order —Black or White
POCKET FELTS, 5/0
Feattur-wciy lil, 10,0
WH-ITF THOPO HFXMRT, 13/0.
Blai.ct) fir Cleanin'', i - Tin.
WHITE PrNTFIA HE
13, G
'MET,
GENT.’S STRAWS.
Single Brim
3 0
Double Brim—
-40 5 0
5 0 and J 0
Cooksey & Co. Gold Medal London Silk
Hats. Highest avvaids, Chicago, IS9I.
GENT.'S TEItAI, : (i, ,s«, I0<;,
Puggaree, 2, - extra.
QUAID'S
Covered White ..
Do. Felt _
THE LEALINO SHIItTMAKERS
OF THE COLONY.
B. Mou i) teas tie & Sons draw special
attention to their Dress Shirts, open
front or back, at 7,6 each. These
shirts are admirablyadapted foreven-
inyr wear, bodies are made of excellent
1 ih t American Longcloth, and fit-
tings of best Irish Linen. The sizes
are regulated on an Australian
average, and their shirts will wear
and fit better than goods of British
manufacture. All goods are stamped
with the Firm’s Itegisteied Trade
Mark. Sample half -dozen Shirts,
free per post to any Australian
colony, for 46 B. M u t'astle and
Sons, Queen-street, Brish ne.
At Queen-street, Brisbane. B.M. & Sons make a
as well as all the LATEST SHAPES of HATS and LAPS
specify of SHIRT-MAKING, HIGH-CLASS MERCK
KY and HUSiERY,


—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar TXT one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, <as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of thecolony, com posed of wildplants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you .'
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joseph son’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man eaual to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for rem >v-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY"
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’===—
Bnchn Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions ef Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. —BBBB—I find thrse Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters..
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Wokds.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
li That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint!
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU'LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
-i .I—————— ——
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
Uke ROW’S STEANE ,C 1 WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it. . ,
Teetotallers will find tins newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its inb>xieating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
Pa CAUT lOX. —When you call for these a-k for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydney-
Dear Bulletin, —Prof. Morris, in his
derivation of “gone-bung,” is even farther astray
than you assume. “ Billabong ” does not signify
a pond of dead or motionless water. It is the
aboriginal equivalent of “ana-branch a natural
by-wash or secondary channel, running, as a rule,
only in flood-time. The Billabong Creek is a
billabong of the Murray ; so are the Edwards, the
Gulpa, the Wakool, and a host of minor intermit-
tent streams. A billabong may form the flood-
connection of two separate rivers ; the Willandra
Billabong is an example. But there is as much
difference between a billabong and a lagoon as
between a State-bank and a Mercantile ; and the
integrity of the aboriginal term should be pre-
served. Of course, “billabong” may suggest
“gone bung” when the faithless stream is dry,
not otherwise.—Tom Collins.
The steadily growing demand for Parker’s
Australian Hair Preserver not only marks its
growing popularity, but undoubtedly stamps the
efficacy of the preparation. The many testi-
monials from well-known residents show that,
in the near future, no dressing-table will be
complete without it. #
At one meeting of the Liberator Building
Society committee, Jabez Balfour placed the
following resolution on the agenda paper :
That, on the occasion of taking possession this day of
our new premises, the directors desire to record their own
sense of thankfulness for the prosperity with which, as
they believe, God has hitherto blessed their efforts in the
establishment of this business.
Says a London paper, commenting on the cant of
the greasy Pharisee : “ Certain it is that a very
large number of the Liberator victims were simple-
minded, God-fearing, chapel folk, ensnared actu-
ally by their own pastors and office-bearers in
temperance, religious, and thrift organisations,
all of whom were hired and paid by commission
to tout for the Balfour group of companies.” How
closely the tactics of Jabez were imitated in
Melbourne !
The eviction of Tenetahi, an ancient
Maori, whom the Seddon Ministry recently cast
out by force of arms from his ancestral home on
Little Barrier island, is being worked for all it
is worth by the Tory press of Maori land. The
pathetic old man, dragged in his declining years
from his humble home and brutally “ chucked ”
into a cold world, has been dished up in many
different shapes, and Seddon, as the base
oppressor, has become a bye-word. Tenetahi
and his tribe sold their ancestral home to the
State, and religiously collected the money. Then
they all gave up possession, except this one
pathetic old wreck, who simply stayed on, and
shook his hoary locks at the purchaser, and talked
pathos about the resting-place of his fathers, and
his declining years, and so forth. And, now that
he has been evicted, he is going up and down
the country quoting poetry of the 1 ‘ Old Dog Tray ”
description and smoking the strongest plug-
tobacco, and the Tory papers want to know if
Maoriland will endure this brutally-oppressive
Ministry any longer.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Apropos of the present denunciation of the
State-school system by the R.C. hierarchy, it may
be remembered that the R.C. and Anglican pre-
lates made a similar onslaught on the English
Education Act of 1870, which they attacked
as “destructive of religion and morality.” In
1870, when the population was under 23,000,000,
the number of prisons was 113. In 1890,
when the population had reached 26,000,000, the
number of prisons had fallen to less than 60. At
that time (1870) the number of children in schools
was 1,400,000. It is now over 5,000,000. “And
in that period,” says Lubbock, “ crime has de-
creased by at least a' half.” Drunkenness shows a
similar and even more marked decline. Full
State-schools, in the long run, make empty prisons
and a sober people.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
SPLENDID BUILDING SITES AND BLOCKS
—AT —
PERTH, the CAPITAL CITY,
FttOM £l5 EACH. VERY EASY TERMS.
Discount for Cash. Title Guaranteed Perfect.
The Intercolonial Investment Co.
(Limited),
309 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas, Manager.
SW Note.— Map of West Australia (4 colors)
latest data. Post free, Is. each.
Prof- Loisette’s Assimilative Memory :
Or, How to Attend and Never Forget.
Established nearly a quarter of a Century. Incomparable
for students and business people. No artificial, mechani-
cal or “ locality ” “ associations,” but Assimilation only.
Taught by mail in ONE BOOK (instead of Six, as formerly
used) from this permanent BRANCH only. All agencies
have been abolished. Questions at bottom of page help
out like oral lectures. Endorsed by well-known people in
all civilised countries. For Testimonials and Terms,
address-Prof. A. Loisette, P.O. Box 1234, Sydney, N.S.W
JAMES CAMOLL,
Land and Income Tax Adjuster and Sworn
Valuator
(Appointed by the Govt, under the Real Property Act).
Land., Mining, Financial and Estate Agency,
19 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
18 MEDALS AWARDED 18
—TO —
S. B. JEAN’S,
Patentee and Manufacturer of Gas Fires, Gas Cooking
Stoves, Water Heaters for Baths,
Sanitary and Licensed PlumUr, Gasfitter, dec.,
JUNCTION, ST. HILDA.
Gas and Water Laid On. x Estimates Given.
Postal Address: St. Hilda lid., Melbourne.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Sank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £3,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital, as on 10th Sept., 1895 1,894,200 0 0
Reserved Fund, as on 10th Sept., 1895 1,172,297 2 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. I Thomas Cadell, Esq
Robert C. Close, Esq. | James T. Walker, Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
Loudon Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Capital Called-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£999,345 0 0
655 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; GL J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. DIBBS, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
Sir W. P. Manning, Esq. Edward Chisholm, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:—Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; F. 11.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oval
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.—Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal. E. LENTHALL
OLDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria"
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd
I«COKFOKATK» 1850.
Directors :
Hon. G. THORNTON, M.L.C.
(Chairman.)
Dr. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., J.P.
Hon. E. B. SUTTOR.
Registered under the Companies
Act, 1890.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES.
STRICTLY MUTUAL. ALL PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURRENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditions Liberal. Security Undoubted.
,T. M. M'CRAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
Taken as Cash all over the World
The Cheque Bank Lir
CAPITAL, £,500,000.
Established over 20 Years.
CHEQUE BANK CHEQUES:
London
Travellers’ Drafts.
Circular Notes.
Money Orders.
FOR REMITTANCE OF MONEY to all parts of the World, are CHEAPER, and have
innumerable advantages over Ordinary Money Orders.
FOR TRAVELLERS the most convenient form of carrying money, and the most useful
Circular Notes.
CASHED by upwards of 15,000 Banks all over the World, and by over 2200 Banks in
Great Britain.
Handbooks and add Inkokmation on Appmcation.
SYDNEY AGENCY: JAMES MAHCOLM,
56 Pi t Street (near Bri . ge-st I General Ar/eiit for A nstrnltisiii.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout Lite United States of America and
Canada, and can otter special facilities 101 dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Let' ers of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager. _
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £6,000,04)0
Paid-up . .. £3,055,281 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, li.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Ijssiectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsffate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Thrtadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
The national bank of austra
LASIA Ltd.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. .. £4,000,000
Ca|ital Paid-up £1,557,392 3 0
Preference Shares raid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 192,607 17 0
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. ... 750,000 0 0
2.805.750
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Chairman, Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, li.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Vice-Chairman, A. S. King, Esq. John Grice, Esc.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Auditors: W. H. Tuckett, Esq.;
Andrew Bums, Esq. Chief Manager; Francis Grey Smith.
South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches throughout
Soutli Australia. Local Directors: Caleb Peacock, Esq.,
J.P.; John Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison.
New South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits £88,477 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es j., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estate', undertaken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales:
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,750,000.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS since commencement of ttie
Society exceeds
Iwenly-oue Mil lions sterling (£31,000,000),
Being an average of a MILLION for each year of its
existence.
T. JAQUES MARTIN, General Manager.
Money to Lend.
ITIMIII.It KEIMCEO KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
MONT DE PIETE
D, & I CO. (Limited).
Only Address :
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every <£l to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over <£so
£lOO and over —Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest R ites.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, GO Market Street.


JHE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
Established 1813.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia,
STATEMENT FOR 1895.
(Just received by Special Cable.)
Income ... ... ... ••• £9,075,000
Surplus ... ... ... ... 5,500,000
Assets ... ... ... ... 45,100,000
Insurance in Force ... ... 184,000,< 00
New Business actually Paid (discard-
ing incomplete) ... ... 30,000,000
Net Gain in Insurance in Force ... 12,,00,0.00
INCREASE OF ASSETS OVER PREVIOUS YEAR
£3,400,000.
AUSTRALASIAN HEAD OFFICE:
COMPANY'S BUILDING,
MARTIN PLACE and PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OP THE
North Mymagee Copper Mining Syndicate,
MYMA GEE, N. S. W.
To "be Registered. as a HXT o-Liability Company.
Capital: - £7500 in 750 Shares of £lO each.
350 Shares are offered to the Public at 4?10 each, and 400 Shares are to be issued to the Vendors,
who also receive 4?15(J0 in cash in full payment for the Property.
less brokerage only, to be placed to the Credit of the Company.
It is proposed that the Syndicate shall be registered as a No-Liability Company, with a Capital of £18,750 in 37,500 Shares of 10/-
each, issued as paid up to 7/6, so that each Syndicate Share of £lO will carry 50 Shares in the Company. It* will be seen that,
should further capital be required for erection of plant, reduction works, etc., the Vendors will contribute proportionately with the
present Subscribers for the Syndicate Shares. J
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
Capt. JOHN BROOMFIELD. ALFRED HARCOURT, Esq.
Gr. 0. CHALMERS, Esq.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. SLY & RUSSELL, 379 George Street, Sydney.
BANKERS :
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK, LIMITED.
MANAGER:
LEONARD DODDS, 131 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BROKERS :
Messrs. SOUTAR & HOARD, Post Office Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
FELIX RANDLE, Union Bank Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
THIS Syndicate is being formed to acquire 120 acres of Freehold Land, situated immediately north
of the celebrated Nymagee Copper Mine.
It will be seen on reference to the plan that the workings of the Nymagee Copper Mine have been
extended half-way across the road which separates the two properties. The recent valuable discoveries,
which have so materially enhanced the price of Nymagee shares in the market, are in the extreme
northern end of that Company’s property, and are dipping rapidly into the North Nymagee Mine.
The report of Mr. W. blakemore, General Manager of the Nymagee Copper Mine, is appended
hereto, and from which it will be seen that the property now being offered is an exceptionally valuable
one, and in his opinion the various rich lodes now being so remuneratively worked by the Nymagee
Company, will no doubt be proved to exist in this Company’s property ; but, in addition to this, large
deposits of Oxidized Copper Ores can at once be raised and profitably disposed of, and a valuable
Silver Lead Lode, the existence of which is proved, only requires developing to form a lasting source
of profit.
The Nymagee Company, since its formation, has distributed the handsome sum of .£94,000 in
dividends to its Shareholders.
Attention is drawn to the great revival which has already taken place in copper-mining, and in
the values of copper shares. A short time ago, Nymagee shares were practically unsaleable, now their
,£1 shares paid up to ss. are readily dealt in at 565. ; and in the same period Great Cobar shares have
increased in value from Is. 6d. to over 30s.
advance cainhe* looked'for"' [he ZZ ft* 110 Present year, and a further
a rapidly increasing consumption of the metal. g y dinnnis bed stocks in Europe, together with
mote™L^i3^rmeSgtop^ky aVOrabl6 rep ° rt ° f Mr - W ' j-»H<y the pro.
or 01 *» «tefd into by the Comply,
therejf, as trustees for the directors, to waive the snecifi on tinfn Wlth the Company and the brokers
Biz ~umber ha i e , aiready bsm a ™ iied "*■
s^Sed V ?h t h re™ \tt n *™Tt “ d oShlwofto
reasonable to suppose that a lode lo a moderate depth, as it is hardly
hundred yards cut out altogether Shrmld vou he 't “fi th ° bou . ndar y line should in less than a
have very little doubt about, this property will be one n??™ 1 W CUtt r g the , Nymagee lodes, which I
mend it as a first-class mining speculation. * imense value, and I can confidently recom*
all particulars can toe ototained from ttoe Brokers.
When Abercorn won Vic. Sires Produce Stakes
It Was only by a head from the Musket Maxim. On Satur-
day Goil had a much easier task than his dad, having no
finishing opposition. Fucile, who beat The Officer, is a
green Carbine who wants time.
• * * *
Old Whakawatea isn’t apparently his once
junior self. Even Hales, who can’t be much this side of
50, couldn't bang him to the front. Hales’ last New-
market was on Hova, when he landed a swell stake.
* * * *
Courallie seems to be a second-place horse. His
first notable second was to Hopscotch, in Epsom Handi-
cap, and his last (the fifth) in the Newmarket.
♦ » * *
Adelaide people have been smitten with horse
fever since Auraria brought Melb. Cup there. Foliage
and Thunderer carried a heap of S.A. money in the New-
market, but weren't class. The little syndicate that fore-
stalled the Foliage stable got a lesson in turf ethics.
Follow a stable lead ; never lead a stable.
* * * *
Oakleigh Plate is a fair Newmarket tip fur-
nisher ; Hova, second in ’94, won the six furlongs after-
wards ; Vanitas, second last year, ran second at Fleming-
ton ; and Maluma, second this year, won. Her sire—
Malua, William Tell, and Wild' Rose, Oakleigh Plate
winners, scored in the V.R.C. dash in their respective
years.
* * * *
Maluma only won one race before the New-
market. Her brother had little to his credit before he
scooped Melb. Cup. Yet both started favorites.
* * * *
Maluma’s two last performances stamp Coil as
a slashing youngster. After having bad luck, he beat her
at Caulfield. Then she donkey-licks 36 of a Newmarket
field, and he leisurely appropriates the Sires Produce
Stakes.
* * * *
Lawyer O’Halloran’s libel-action against jour-
nalist Champion was nipped by the Vic. Attorney-General,
who declined to file a bill. The Attorney-General's
opinion about O’Halloran’s case can only be gauged by his
action. A conviction was improbable/ Which reflection
is a poor salve for O’Halloran’s injured feelings.
* * * *
Had Maluma not been outheaded by Coil in
Oakleigh Plate, she would have been penalised for the
Newmarket,, and, after her. Saturday’s unextended achiev-
ment, curiosity is expressed as to how. she would have
shaped with a penalty.
* * * *
Fully a dozen neddies were ridden by Holdhard
at Caulfield, but the potato-eyed stewards said nothing.
Strange to say, they heard nothing either. The idea of
dropping on a real trier, who won, was ludicrous, but
quite in keeping with the traditions of Caulfield heath.
* * * *
The best two-year-old, Sydney side, is un-
doubtedly Tird, the M. L.-bred youngster (half-brother to
Tirailleur, killed in Glenloth’s Melb. Cup). If looks and
pace go for anything he’s another Carbine.
* * * «
It was' not only the anticipated stiff running
that kept the public away from Caulfield autumn meeting,
which resulted in loss. Oakleigh Plate and Purse aren’t
sufficiently attractive from a spectacular point of view.
The distances are too short for big handicaps. People
like sitting back in suspense and gazing at something
longer—a cross between, say, a mile-and-a-quarter and a
Chinese opera.
* * * *
St. Alban’s Wilson is going ’Ome to recuperate,
see the Derby, and secure a couple of new stud strains on
which he has long had an eye.
* * * *
Some of the ring were quite prepared for
Preston’s defeat of the odds-on Harvester in last year’s
Leger. Bookies are generally ready for surprises. The
public aren’t. When Cabin Boy cantered home on Satur-
day even his leviathan owner was flabbergasted. He never
lays his own horses, but no one fancied his hack this time,
anyhow.
Twenty to one was Cabin Boy’s quoted starting-
price. What would a tote have paid ?
A hundred yards is an awful start when the
leader’s nearest opponent has to round a turn at top.
How rider Gough must have kicked himself for his St.
Leger error 1 Look at the great ovation he missed, too,
riding in an easy winner on the idolised Wallace 1
Riding according to instructions isn’t always
the game, unless a jock’s instructions are to ride stiff. A
pilot should follow instructions and go “ on his own ” as
well.
So far as Adelaide is concerned the lesson of the
Newmarket is that Foliage is always green in autumn.
« * ’» *
The N.S.W. v. S. Aus. match will be memor-
able for Turner’s reversion to brilliant form with the ball.
He bowled nearly all day for 35 runs and got six wickets.
The climax came when oniy one S. Aus. wicket had to
fall, and Giffen, having cut a ball, ran only one instead of
two in order that he might face Turner himself.
Nemesis ! Giffen’s wicket was scattered second ball, and
the Sydney crowd roared itself hoarse for Turner. At
time of going to press the match seemed a very good
thing for N.S.W. S. Aus. had made4oo and 200; N.S.W.
first innings, 428, an 1 103 in the second innings for one
wicket (Mackenzie’s).
* * * *
Lyons has one chance of being included in the
English trip, and that is—Buckley’s.
* * * *
TheTas. giant Eady has kept his hand in during
the last few weeks. His club batting-average has been
considerably over the century.
* * * «
The S.A. bowling last Monday was generally
weak stuff. Nearly 30 full-pitchers were bowled before
luncheon ; no wonder Iredale made 187 ! Iredale’s big
score is chiefly valuable in proving that he has plenty of
pluck to fight an uphill game—if proof is necessary after
his 133 and 140 against Stoddart’s team last year. This 137
follows directly on two successive innings for 140 and 124.
» • • »
Several members of the present Australian
Eleven are against the inclusion of a fourteenth. “ Three
men always to watch a match,” remarks veteran A. Ban-
nerman, “ three men to always grumble, and get ill drink-
ing lemonade.”
* * * *
After Kelly’s grand wicket-keeping against S.
Aus.—not a sundry against him In a score of 400—several
of the certainties for England are asking whether it isn’t
a mistake to take Johns and leave Kelly.
Percy M‘Donnell, who captains the No. 2
eleven in Australia v. Australia, thinks his side ought to
win if it wins the toss.
This week’s contest between the first and
second Australian elevens gives rise to reflection. Sup-
pose, as is possible, the English team is beaten, that
Turner takes 9 wickets for 20 runs, M'Kibbin 3 for 100,
and Jones gets 20) scored off him for nix. That Kelly, at
his best, takes four wickets by lightning stumping, ami
Johns, off his nerve, mulls his chances ; while Mackenzie,
with the bat, scores more than all the first eleven put
together, how shall we feel ? What sort of “conquering
hero-don’t-want-to fight ” tune can the picked ones sing
when they board the steamer; and, more vital still,
what sort of draw will a defeated Australian eleven be in
England? The match will be very interesting from a
sporting standpoint ; but, after all, what is sport ? What
is anything, in comparison to Gate ?
* * * *
Why has no superstition-monger come out with
a protest against a possible Australian team of 13 mem-
bers? It looks like flying in the face of Fate.
* * * *
It all depends on the point of view. A Sydney-
ite, on the day when the news came of the terrible Johan-
nesburg dynamite accident, met a friend, who said to
him, with perfect gravity of manner ; “ That is awfully
bad news in the paper this morning?” “What? Yo
mean that Johannesburg trouble ? Yes, awful. No,
I didn’t mean that; I referred to Musgrove s resignation .
Giffen got three wickets for 16(1 in N.S. W. s first
innings. A pity the rules of cricket won t allow one m
to bowl from both ends throughout the match . Then
G. G. could give himself a fair show. As it is he only B ets
half a show—and the remaining ten of S. Aus. get me
other half among them.
The beautiful length Turner was bowling against
S. Aus. last Monday wreathed Percy M'Donnell s face
smiles. Mac. thinks that Turner is the only fust-class
bowler in Australia.
What if Giffen and Co. left Jones out of their
eleven, and Turner got his opponents m the test-matcn
on a sticky wicket? P. M'Donnell would smile more
than Giffen did when C. Hill was batting. . >
The crowd gave the great man 1 ‘ beans. Get
off that three, George ! Now, George, make a run .
The Only One was in 70 minutes for 6 runs. Rheuma-
tism in the thigh,” he said, was the cause of his tameness.
* * * *
Last Saturday’s Adelaide cycling was note-
worthy by reason of Parsons lowering the Zun. Aus. halt-
mile record from 58 to 54sec., triplet-paced ; Parsons also
won the Five-Mile International Scratch Race from Porta,
Kirk, Megson and Kuhle. Neither Martin nor Harris was
there—are they syndicating? Megson’s return to form
(anticipated in Tub Bull bun) asserted itself sensationally,
lie came with his old-time brilliant finish and downed
Parsons, Kuhle and Kirk in the Mile Australasian Cham-
pionship. f
Entries for the March Carnival of N.S.W,.
League of Wheelmen have closed with 616 for the. 10 races,
and Sec. Webster, of the Agricultural Ground, is to get
the show he so well deserves. Gall for the Sydney Cricket-
Ground crowd, who will now have to part for themselves,
their sisters, cousins and aunts.
» * * *
Last week at Adelaide Parsons pedalled a mile
in lrnin. 58 3-ssec. This is the goal of America’s trotting
ambition ; the day on which a trotter breaks 211110. will
put Yankeedom on its head, from the President down-
wards.
* * « *
Parsons is leaving Melb. to race at ’Ome and in
France. A complimentary meeting is now under weigh
to give him a fair start.
° * * * *
Bob Fitzsimmons, the Maoriland pug., is a game
fighter who learned much in Sydney froir Peter Jackson.
Corbett, who waited sixtv rounds for Jackson, selected
Maher as his proGgd, and'handed him the championship ;
Fitzsimmons, Jackson’s pupil, only needed sixty seconds
to take that honor from Mr. Maher, who was said to have
greatly improved since he was beaten by Fitzsimmons in
a dozen rounds three or four years ago —a nasty jar for
“Gentleman Jim.” Maher is a man who, when called on
by his friends in several bitter goes, always shone brilli-
antly. But in Fitz. he met a scientist who “ waits.”’ And,
seemingly, the waiting champion is the fighting champion,
and as Fitz. is now an excellently-dressed personage, with
a good little hoard, it is time to assume the title of “ Gen-
tleman Bob,” Champion of the World. Yet Fitzsimmons,
as a world-beater, is a mystery to Sydneyites. Of his
cleverness there was never any doubt, but his ability to
stand punishment, and come round after being dazed,
puzzles people. The writer recollects seeing the red-
haired blacksmith set-to one afternoon with Hick Sandall.
Of course the long man got all over the stocky weight-lifter
for a few rounds, and then Fitz. suggested “a willing one”
for a finish. Towards the end Sandall landed a heavy
right on Fitz’s ribs, when the latter turned green and
looked as if another punch would have knocked him clean
out. Maher and Fitzsimmons are of one height, sft.
lljin., but the former is 101 b. heavier, and the champion
seven years older. Fitz. has a bigger chest and waist
measurement, but in thighs, biceps, calves, forearm and
wrists, the Irishman has the advantage.
* * *
Ever since the new fistic champion Fitzsimmons
knocked four men out in one night at Timaru (M.L.), and
five the next, he has had a great career—has never been
beaten, unless a “ doubtful ” with Jim Hall can be counted.
It can’t. Once, too, he drew with Choynski, but played a
veritable tattoo on the clever Hebrew, and should have got
the verdict.
Three years ago, Fitz. walked the stone-broke
plank having lost his thousands through bad-management
and speculation. He swore then he’d never employ an-
other manager, but found he couldn’t do without. It re-
quires something more than a wife to keep a boxer straight.
Had Slavin set up as a temperance-model before
he left Australia, he might have been champion to-day.
Bragging Corbett, when he first received Fitz.’s
challenge, tried to bluff by offering to back Creedon
against him for £lOOO. The blacksmith had beaten Cree-
don, and has now twice downed Corbett’s second nomina-
tion - ,
During the recent cricket-match between a
Southern °Tasmanian team and Mr. Wood’s Eleven, the
Southern Tasmanian Cricket Association achieved some
sort of curious distinction. Mr. Wood (the husband of
Miss Essie Jenyns) is a decent fellow, quite apart from the
indirect celebrity his wife brought him. He pays all the
expenses of his team, and takes no percentage of the gate-
money, the fees, &c. The S.T.C.A. collected the ordin-
ary fees of admission to the ground from the wives of
such of the visiting players as are married, and in other
directions failed in hospitality and courtesy.
The Year-Book of Australia, containing a
vast mass of information about almost every-
thing Australian, has just come to hand. One
excellent feature about this publication is its
exceeding up-to-dateness. It presents a very large
amount of valuable detail about Australian in-
dustries, finances, Governments, railways, public
departments ; mining, banking, insurance, sport-
ing, commercial, legal, military, educational and
ecclesiastical matters ; and almost everything else
from the averages of Australian elevens to the
amount of dog-fees collected in Melbourne ; and
all these facts, corrected up to the end of ’95, are
published by the end of February : 9G. If the pro-
prietors would only extend this valuable work to
cover Tasmania and Maoriland as well as Aus-
tralia, it would be practically perfect. Tasmania
especially, as a province of which wonderfully
little is known on this continent, should be
included.


A Useful Hint for Gentlemen.
Custom is second nature—it has a mechanical
effect upon the body, an extraordinary influence
upon the mind. We grow fond of doing what we
are accustomed to, and our employments become
our diversions. Our taste is never better pleased
than with things which at first were objectionable
to us. Did you enjoy the first glass of claret or
beer or whisky you ever tasted ? What about
your first smoke? Yet habit has made you an
inveterate smoker, and you couldn’t while away
your time without your pipe or your cigar. The
great point in habits is not to give way to them
injudiciously. Be particular about the quality of
your wine and the brand of your weeds. You
may depend upon one thing—that you will not go
wrong if you smoke Frossard’s Cavour Cigars—
mild and aromatic, sold in packets of 8 for Is.
Let not outward appearances deceive you. They
look rough, the shape is unusual, but the quality
is there, and that is the essential.*
DEATH.
From mixing phosphorised pollard at Inver-
cargill, New Zealand, last April, three men were
seized with illness ; one was prostrated for a week,
another recovered in three or four days, and the
third man died. At the inquest the jury returned
a verdict “ Death was caused by phosphorous fumes
whilst phosphorisina pollard for rabbit-poisoning ; ”
and a rider was added urging the Government to
supervise the manufacture of phosphorised pre-
parations.*
Messrs. W. H. Glen and Co., the well-
known musical warehousemen, of Melbourne,
have established a branch of their business at 3)9
George-street, Sydney, an enterprise to be con-
ducted with the same spirit of liberality and
straightforwardness which has won the firm such
prosperity and respect in the Southern province.
Of course, the new branch has been primarily
established to supply the wants of the considerable
clientele already existent in N.S.W.*
THE RABBIT PEST IN VICTORIA.
The Waranga Shire Council at last meeting
instructed the engineer to procure three “ Ringer”
poison-distributing machines. They are known to
be the most practical and economic means of des-
troying rabbits yet out, or likely to come out.
The machine works in the roughest country ; the
size of the bait laid is under the control of the
driver ; one thousand acres can be scarified with
furrows and seventy thousand baits dropped in a
day, at seventy-five per cent, less cost than any
other means. *
Warner’s Safe Cure.—The annual re-
port of the Warner’s Safe Cure Co. for the year
ending July 31st, 1895, shows .£32,078 Is. 3d.
available for dividends. This report is certainly
satisfactory, and shows that the old-time pros-
perity of the Safe Cure business is rapidly return-
ing under the management of the English Board
of directors. No doubt both the Australasian trade
and the publishers will be pleased to learn that
the Australian branch will now receive special
attention under the management of Mr. H. W.
Calkins, who was previously associated, for nearly
four years, with the introduction of this business
in Australia, and whose experience has been
ripened since that time by having charge of the
advertising department of this company in Great
Britain. Mr. Calkins is expected to arrive in
Sydney about 1st March.*
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
116 Pitt Strekt, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Original Cash Fielder.
commissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughout
the World,„
STARTING PRICE - 20 to 1 Limit on all Horse races.
Telegraphic Code—“ Westbrook, Sydney.” Telephone,
No. 1542.
Mr. A W STEEL,
Member of Tattbrsali/s,
(133 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
Has some especially good information for next Satuiday.
Steeplechase J - ,a y >
FLEMINGTON (7th MARCH).
SEND for the SELECTION without delay. Fee only 10s,
gy DISCRETIONARY INVESTMENTS
Mr. Steel is, as usual, investing for clients on the above
day, and also over the V.A.T.C.
CAULFIELD MARCH MEETING,
Run Saturday. March 14, and, in fact, Mr. Steel is always
f VERY SATURDA to be found in the Ring- back-
big his selections, both for himself and clients. So do not
be misled by those mushroom tipsters who invariably stait
advertising just before a big meeting. . ..
Mr. Steel’s Circular is sent gratis on receipt of address.
Miscellaneous.
READY FOR INSPECTION.
Our First Shipment
—FOR —
AUTUMN & WINTER SEASON.
507 PACKAGES 507
Ex British-India, Southern British, French, German, and
American Mail Steamers. Also,
A Choice Assortment of Chinese Silks,
AND
Ladies’ & Gents' 1 Handkerchiefs,
all made of the Pure Silk.
In all, 507 PACKAGES, giving us one of the
Finest Assortments of
New Goods & Latest Styles
that ever came to Queensland.
tST We direct SPECIAL ATTENTION to the
LOW CASH PRICES
all our GOODS are MARKED AT, and the
SPLENDID VALUE we offer. A Trial Order
and comparison will convince any who have not
proved them that these facts are reliable.
FINNEY, ISLES & Co.,
Brisbane,
And Maryborough (Queensland), and London.
gYDNEY
c
RICKET
G
ROUND.
aFt-A-KTE)
TEST CRICKET
Matcß,
Commencing
Friday. 6th March Next.
USTRALI AN ELEVEN
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN
r -versus- /
COMBINED AUSTRALIA
Combined Australia
This interesting match has been arranged to test
the streng th of the Australian Eleven prior to their
departure for England, and a great struggle is
anticipated, as the Combined Team will include
many of the best players from the various colonies.
OMEO ATHLETIC CLUB,
GIPPSLAND, VICTORIA.
EASTER MONDAY AND TUESDAY,
6th and 7th APRIL, 1896.
Easter Gift. —First, .£5O; Second, <£B; Third,
<£s : Fourth, £2. Nom., 10s. ; Accep., 7s. 6d.
130 yards.
Hurdles. —First, .£11; Second, .£3 ; Third, .£l.
Nom., 55.; Accep.,' ss. 150 yards—lo hurdles.
Mile. —First, <£7; Second, £2 ; Third, .£l. Nom.,
ss. ; Accep., 2s. 6d.
440 Yards.— First, .£lO ; Second, £3 ; Third,
.£2. Nom., 5s ; Accep., ss.
Nominations close 18th March. Handicaps posted
to competitors immediately after.
Acceptances close 3rd April. Various post entry
Events.
W. WILSON ... Secretary.
The Entertainment of the Year.
RUID O’
Grand Annual Gala .
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE,
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1896.
Art. Union, 125 Golden Prizes - Value, £l5OO.
FIRST PRIZE, ElOOO Cash. No Deduction.
Great Cycling Carnival—Druids’ Great Wheel Race, £201).
yjgjT" Art Union drawn publicly at Hibernian Hall, Melb.,
on Monday, April 13, 8 p in. Winning numbers published
Melb. papers, April 14. Tickets, Is. each, with full list of
prizes, from your local agent; or direct from the Secre-
tary, Is. each, 11 for 10s., or 23 for 205., on receipt of
postal note or stamps with address to J. J. BREN AN, Sec.,
Grattan and Drummond Sts., Carlton; from whom all
particulars concerning Bicycle and Athletic events can be
obtained. SSi*" £1033 for Is
fjEVER. (
ft Pleasure
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades.
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garrett
& Co., London, IV.
CASCARA-HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEB GICARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Tonic Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse's Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Business Announcements.
PARTNERSHIP SALE.
E3^
Read
This
Very
Carefully.
An important change is pend-
ing in the well-known Drapery
business of Messrs. Manning
and Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
For some time past Mr. R.
Manning has been Sole Pro-
prietor, and quite recently has
had very tempting proposals of
partnership from a friend of his
in Scotland. These are likely
to result in a combination of
talent and capital which will be
calculated to produce a large and
rapid expansion of business.
While negotiations are proceed-
ing, opportunities of reducing
stock and collecting book-debts
are being made the most of, and
(Messrs. (Manning & <Qo.
are making a most determined
effort to do both in the most
practical way possible. Their
warehouse has been closed for a
whole day, and every article in
their choice Stock has been RE-
MARKED and heavily dis-
counted. Each Department
must reduce its Stock by a cer-
tain sum, and one or two depart-
ments (notably the Boot Depart-
ment) are to be closed altogether,
in order to make room for the
extension of the COSTUME,
MANTLE and MILLINERY
DEPARTMENTS. Ladies
would do well to drop in here
during the progress of this
genuine
Partnership Sale.
MANNING & CO.,
OH THE BLOCK,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
GENTS
WANTED
EVERY TOWN in the COLONIES
To Undertake the SALE of the
“ Western Australian
Goldfields CourierA9
The Courier is the Largest Weekly Newspaper
published in Western Australia, and is the Lead-
ing Paper issued on the Goldfields. Illustrations
of Life on the Field, and Views of the Mines are
published in Each Issue.
It is the Best Paper for Advertising
Purposes.
6 cl. PRICE 6cl.
Liberal Commission to Newsagents. *©&
Specimen Copies Free on Application ,
Office: Bayley Street, COOLGARDIE-
The most successful volumes
ever published in Australasia.
The Man from Snowy
River and other
Verses. By A. B. Paterson
(“The Banjo.”)
Fifth Thousand. 5/-; post free, 5/4.
In the Days when the
World teas Wide and
Other Verses. By Henry
LaWSOn. Price, 5/-; post free, 5/6
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
Booksellers to the University, The Public Library
of N.S.W. and The Parliament Library,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Booh Club.
Catalogues and Terms of Membership, for
Town and Country, on application to
Angus & Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
*11
sa
l-V
aStock-holder?
If so, sell all jour FATS through us. No double com-
missions or disputes. We kill and export. All charges,
l£d. Sales of Country killed Meat Daily. Drop us a line
M'MASTER CO.,
Government Meat Markets, DARLING HARBOR.
Business Announcements.
NATATORIUBI,
400 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE GRANDEST SWIMMING BATHS IN
AUSTRALIA.
Sea Water Swimming Baths and Hot Sea and
Fresh-Water Plunge Baths.
Open on weeh days for yentlemen front 0 a.m,
to 9 and on Sundays till Noon.
PLUNGE BATHS and a Small Swimming
Bath for LADIES DAILY.
Swimming Tn,ix g li "t.
&3T A Fresh Supply of Sea-water Daily.
BURNS & BRIGHT
148 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY
SPECIAL
Wood Burning Stove.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
66 The Australis
I
§SSsSES->
Barns 20in.
wood.
W. E.
AND AT
CARLISLEaCO.,
18 BARRACK STREET,
Sydney;
116 JEFFERSON AVE.,
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Agents for American Manufacturers of
BOOTS & SHOES
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
H.P.GREGORY‘CO.,
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
GENTERAL
Machinery Merchants,
Sole Agents for the
BLAKE
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
(SINGLE AND DUPLEX).
These Pumps are now so well-known all over
Australia that they are generally recognised as the
MOST RELIABLE STEAM PUMPS IN
THIS MARKET.
PUMPS
All kinds of Pumping Work
In STOCK, suitable for
Mining, Irrigation, Marine Worh
IV aterworhs,
Boiler-feeding, Creameries, etc.
Send for our Catalogues and Circulars.
ill
patewt
WICK REGULATOR
SCALE ONE FIFTH
BRANDT’S
“Anti-Candle.”
A Kerosene Candle with new light
spreader, which increases light and pre-
vents blowing out. For Candlesticks and
Carriage Lamps. Entirely supersedes the
ordinary candle. 110 HOURS’ LIGHT
at a COST of ONE PENNY. Prices—ls
6d and 2s 6d. Postage 4d per pair
extra. Last for years.
Genuine “PRIMUS”
Kerosene Gas Stove.
No Wick, Atmospheric Flame.
17s. 6d. each.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lampmakers and Importers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
I Price—One Shilling.
WE PAY HIGHEST PRICES IN CASH for
KANGAROO SKINS,
WALLABY SKINS,
GEO. WILCOX & CO.,
9 Young Street,
CIRCULAR QUAY,
SYDNEY.
RABBIT SKINS,
OPOSSUM & BEAR SKINS.
NO COMMISSIONS DEDUCTED.
PAYMENT RETURNED SAME DAY SKINS RECEIVED.
The Equitable Life-Assurance Society of
the United States has been under examination by
the Insurance Department of the State of New
York, and the result of the investigation is
summed up by the superintendent, in his report to
the Legislature, in the following words: —“ The
examination has been of the most searching and
exhaustive character. The officers and directors
have given every facility to the department during
the progress of the examination. The securities
owned and held as collateral were examined and
counted. The cash was balanced and verified.
The same diligence and exacting care was applied
to all the categories of assets. The valuation of
the liabilities has been made in the most careful
way, nothing being taken for granted, and abso-
lutely independent computations being made in
every case., It affords me profound satisfaction to
find that all the affairs of this vast insurance cor-
poration are in a sound and prosperous conditi< m.
The policy-holders of the Equitable may be satis-
fied that their interests are guarded by conscien-
tious and skilled officers and directors, whose
integrity is a guarantee of fidelity, and whose long
experience qualifies them to conduct the business
in a manner best calculated to conserve the true
interests of the policy-holders.” Mr. C. Carlisle
Taylor, for some years a member of the head-office
(Staff in New York, has recently been appointed
general manager in Australasia for the society.


Greenfield AND
Barraelou^h,
Spectacle Makers,
371 GEORGE STREET 371
(A.J.S. Bank-building's, near King Street, SYDNEY).
Sir SAMUEL GRIFFITH, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice,
Queensland, writes:—“l have much pleasure in saying
that you are entirely at liberty to make use of my name
in certifying to your being competent Ophthalmic
Opticians, in whom the public may place confidence.”
Sight Examined Free of Charge.
WONDERFUL
Blood-Purifying Effect
or
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Mr. Charles Stephenson, a well-known
Railway Employe at Kaiapoi,
New Zealand, writes:
“About ten years ago, while engaged in
shunting, my foot caught between the rails,
and my leg was fractured below the knee.
It healed in time, but I have been troubled
ever since with swollen veins, and have been
obliged, at times, to wear a bandage. About
a year ago it became much worse, and I
feared I should be obliged to give up my
work. A friend advised me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I did so, and after taking four
bottles the swelling disappeared, and I have
not been troubled with it since.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Has cured others, will cure you.
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents. Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. :
John Connell &Co., Ltd.
BEAUTIFUL FLOWERS
—AT—
SEARL’S,
FLORISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
The other day, James Healey was picked
up in Swanston-street, Melb., much damaged, and
was wheeled away to the hospital. There he was
reported to be suffering from superficial bruises,
and ordered to gaol. In gaol he died from a badly
fractured skull. He was only a ship’s cook, and—
well, everybody knows who sends cooks.
Trial Bay, writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent, is probably the nearest approach to a
pashalik that can be found in Australia. Save
for a nominal and perfunctory supervision exer-
cised from Sydney, at a distance of about 200
miles, the superintendent is as absolute as, say
President Kruger, and enjoys many interesting
privileges. The Comptroller-General of Prisons
(qy., why not Inspector-General ?) pays an official
visit once or twice every three years ; he managed,
for the first time in 18 months, to put in an ap-
pearance seven weeks ago, the Thetis being pro-
vided for the special accommodation of himself and
his friends. He walked around the establishment,
brought up to an abnormal state of cleanliness for
the occasion, heard requests from prisoners for
leave to petition, mostly returned the stereotyped
answer, “ No grounds,” and vanished—for another
18 months or two years ? The prison, a strong
structure of granite, the cost of which made a
big hole in <£loo,ooo, stands on the narrow mole
or peninsula from which the breakwater starts.
It is 25 miles from Kempsey, and is completely
isolated from the outer world by the ocean on one
side, and mountain, impenetrable thicket, and
swamp on the other. Parson Meekin, of “His
Natural Life,” would piously extol Trial Bay as a
place designed by Providence for a penal settle-
ment. M’sP. never come there, unless involun-
tarily ; educated men naturally shrink from collect-
ing experiences in such a place ; and the occasional
travelling reporter is easily hocussed by ex parte
official statements re the administration of the
prison and the blissful contentment of the inmates.
Apart from every other consideration, and irre-
spective altogether of individual grievances, it
would seem that an enquiry by the Public Service
Board is necessary in the interests of economy.
Trial Bay has escaped the knife of retrenchment
because of its inaccessibility. The public of
N.S.W. would be appalled at the extravagant
expenditure involved in the maintenance of the
establishment on its present footing. A superin-
tendent, a deputy-superintendent, clerk and
schoolmaster, a chief warder, and 18 subordinate
warders, are paid to keep the average of less
than 100 men in order. These men—all, be it
remembered, doing the last portion of their
sentences under conditions of relaxed discipline—
are, with few exceptions, employed outside under
the Harbors and Rivers Department in quarrying,
loading and discharging trucks of stone, stripping,
&c., for eight hours daily, and are, of course, more
orderly than any similar number of free men who
have access to liquor. They are so tired, so
divided in interest, that mutinous conspiracies are
naturally out of the question. The time they
have to serve is so insignificant, and the objections
and obstacles to escape are so obvious, that the
outer gate might with safety be left open all
night. As it is, only three warders are on duty
each night, and the doors of cells and huts are
never locked. Three or four escapes have been re-
corded in eight years, and by consensus of opinion
the recaptured ones were dubbed fools, and went
back to gaol for fresh terms without having even
the barren sympathy of their quondam associates.
Muster, muster, muster is the principal business
within doors ; and for the performance of
this important function the country pays
the superintendent <£425 p.a., deputy-superin-
tendent, <£22o ; clerk and schoolmaster (with
no pupils to teach), <£lso ; senior warder
<£lBs ; and the 18 other warders the full rate
which they would be entitled to receive in Dar-
linghurst according to their grade. In addition to
their pay, the officials, including the resident sur-
geon (<£3so) draw full rations of bread and meat
for themselves and wives, and of bread for each
child. Each little angel in transit from the stars
to this world of sin and struggle is as sure of a
square meal while pa wears the blue as if he or
she were a Guelph. Why this extraordinary dis-
tinction is made between the city warder and the
T.B. warder is an inscrutable mystery. Perhaps
the ration concession is a solatium for living in
such an ultima thule. But existence at the Bay
carries for warders its own advantages. There are
no shops and no pubs. There are even no churches.
There is no opportunity for spending money. The
boundary-rider, a gate-keeper, and one other
“ screw ” are on police duty during the time the
establishment is empty, and for the rest the duties
are of the most trifling description. Consequently,
each warder has taken reverentially to himself
the command given unto Abraham. The fresh
sea air, the freedom from care, the absence of
stays and of the accursed drink, all combine to
assist his devout resolution, and the obstetrical
branch of the doctor’s business flourishes while
disease itself decays. This Arcadian condition of
things long ago arrested the attention of Mr.
Brownrigg, the late Harbors and Rivers engineer,
and it is understood that in a special report he
undertook, if six artillerymen were sent down and
placed under his command, to save this enormous
waste of public money, and still carry on the inter-
minable work of constructing the breakwater.
But the suggestion was not accepted, Mr. Brown-
rigg ultimately accepted another post in the Govt,
service, and the system of wasteful expenditure
under a divided control has been continued up to
the present time.
M
ONTSERRAT
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserrat
used in its production.
Dr. ROBERTS’
POOR MAN'S FRIEND
. r ' '
Are a Sovereign Remedy for
Bruises,
Burns,
Cancer,
Cuts,
Bczema,
If
Eruptions,
Eyes Inflamed,
Fistula,
Gangrene,
Pimples,
Piles, Scorbutic Complaints, Skin Diseases
Ulcerated Legs & Wounds of every description.
Price Is. lid., 2s. 9d., 11s., 225. each.
Sole Proprietors,
BEACH <& BAKNICOTT, Ltd., Bridport, ENG.
Gr. HE SMITH & SON
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOIt AUSTRALIA.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
>|o*Y fJEATH'i
sTRADE MARK
1207
372
124
1208
403
126
w
Mllf
mm§ %• ■>' i
125
127
234
078
«S-—KS
56
57
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Si Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE
MARK
<£sTw)
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A V STB ALIA A
NEEPLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
COUGHS.
SPEEDY RELIEF and CURE.
TAKE
J^ONNINGTONS
(Registered) Irish Moss
COUGHS,
COLDS,
INFLUENZA,
ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS,
VOICE,
THROAT, and all
LUNG COMPLAINTS.
BONNIUGTOFS Irish Moss
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
BONNINGTON’S
Liver Pills.
Valuable Cure
FOR
BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,
DIZZINESS,
TORPID LIVER.
Prized by all who have tried them-
fob Liver Tonic
general debility
And NERVOUS IRRITABILITY,
HEARTBURN,
KIDNEY DISEASES,
And all Derangements of Liver.
THE
* Plum ’
P(D
THE
‘ Plum*
should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow d-™"f ,g superior to any others offered to the public,
can highly recommend it to the general U nnhlk. ngS a bell and never require s grinding. We
know the exact kind of edge that is rponirru Übl °' practical tradesmen ourselves, we
a number of years, can testify to their'merits ° ?” sure an eas y shave, and, having had them in use for
„ , * , , merits. We guaran tee each Razor for Two Years.
Pn “ (sin* te; IS Si;. «•= p * “ t-iw «««»> um*. 21,.
Registered and sent Post Free to an uof th'/ J, f ~z o™ > lv ory handle*- in beautiful case, 30s.
sreetoanyofthe Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN » 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Use
Aunt Mary’s Baking Fourder
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
Benger’s Pood is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
DrugCo„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
the aced.


V
J
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HERBAL
ALF ALINE REMEDIES
(Registered)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and Nerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES, BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OVER 10 YEARS,
AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLIC ITED TESTIMONIALS.
List of the Alfaline HemetUes.
Vitality Restored
ALFALINE
VITALITY PILLS
Are the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Austra-
lian public for many years, and stood a test which
may well be envied by all other manufacturers of
similar remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Exeita-
bilhy. Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— l/- 3/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pilis- Special Double course,
43 6 ; ordinary course, 23 0. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
and 3 -,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - Boxes, 23/6,
12 , 6/-, and 3 -.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43 6 23 6, and 6/-.
Alfaline Fiesh-producing Powder— Builds up
ami Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges l lie Bust. Boxes, 6 •
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder Boxes. 6
Alfaline Injection Powder -Cures the Whites.
Boxes, 6 -.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier -Boxes, O'- and
3 -.
Alfaline Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6 and 3
Alfaline External Pile Powder II xes, 0/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder Boxes, 0-
Alfal.ne Varicocele Powders -Packets, 6-.
Alfaune Ointment— Boxes, 1 - and 2
Alla.ine Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateahle.. Boxes, 1- ; posted, 1 6
Alfaline Bath Tablets Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lars the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/- ; p sted, 1 6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c., &c.
Blood Purified
ALFALINE
LOCK CURE PILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonic-
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It is not the usual Mercury remedy,
hut a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALF ALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint be im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
H err Rassmussen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. Thelmperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices. —With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
as- ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
Important.
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus—PROPRIETOR, Box 208, Gknkkal Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
TAT A R N I N G
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should
always obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
RASSM I 'SSKN'S REM EDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
can only be obtained from his own Offices and Branches as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
and CORKdSPON DENCE HEL > STRI TLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlet
senUunobserved in plain cover. Any par ticulars desired sent free.
Make lieques or Money Or ders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to Ins Head
Office or to his Branches.
Selected Testimonials.
Nerves Cured.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
IGO Rlizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Si* I —l have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured io« of a severe, case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. 1 nay also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, J consider you are deserving of success,
wnioh I do most heartily wish you. —Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and-popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Mcsi-Prom.nent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-si., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Hkrk Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later: —“The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trnpp rs
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill ; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about 00 miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady's Wish Fulfilled
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. 1 am, vonrs respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly,
N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured,
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen,
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Fills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous _to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year of 18711 was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills; since then I have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY
Witness : Eoward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness : John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh - street,
Sydney.
A "Valu-atole Free Book.
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “ THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuable
information, and • any useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality, as well as
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood. Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will be
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of testi-
monials, as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office:
547 George St., Sydney.
AND AT HIS INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
Melbourne: 150 Bourke Street
Adelaide: 151 Run die Street
Brisbane: 160 Queen Street
N-Z. : 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
West Australia: Corner Hay and William Streets , Perth .


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL, ” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
Hawkeshry H.
RUN AT ROSEHILL
21st MARCH.
50,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot- me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
Doncaster Q.
RUN AT RAND WICK
4th APRIL.
25,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Fame
Address
BANK or VAN DIEMEN’S LAND.
Grand Lottery.
SANCTIONED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT OF TASMANIA, 57 VIC., No. 2, 1893.
SECOND DISTRIBUTION OF PROPERTIES,
Total Value £50,000.
—IN—
-200,000 Tickets at Five Shillings (55.) Each.
Ihe SECOND DISTRIBUTION of PROPERTIES, authorised under the Lottery Act,
will include the following
MAGNIFICENT PRIZES !
Prize. Value.
1. Orient Hotel ... ... ... £13,500
2. Bank Premises, Launceston ... 8,000
3. Bank Premises, Devonport ... 5,000
4. Orchard, Glenorohy ... ... 4,000
5. All Nations Hotel, Zeehan, let at
rental £220 ... ... ... 3,000
6. Royal Exchange Hotel, Zeehan, let
at rental ,£2OO ... ... ... 2,500
7. Store, Orchard, etc., Huonville ... 2,250
8. Meadowbanks Estate ... ... 2,000
9. Federal Hotel, Zeehan ;or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 1,500
10. Residence, 18 rooms (weatherboard,
Don ;or cash less 10 per cent. ... 1,000
11. Hall and Offices, Zeehan; or cash
less 10 per cent. ... ... ... 500
12. Orchard, Hnon ... ... ... 450
13. Cottage, Launceston ... ... 400
14. Cottage, Hobart ... ... ... 300
15. 214 Acres Land, Castra ... ... 300
16. Cottage, Forth ... ... ... 250
17. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 220
18. 74 Acres Lands, Cumberland ... 210
19. Cottage and 30 Acres Land, Ship-
wright’s Point ... ... ... 200
20. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
21. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
22. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
23. Building Site, Bellerive ... ... 200
24. Cottage, Launceston ... ... 200
25 to 29. Five Allotments, Hobart—
<£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
30 to 34. Five Allotments, Hobart—
<£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
35 to 44. Ten Allotments, Penguin—
<£so each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
45 and 46. Two Cottages, Don —.£5O
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
47 and 48. Two Cottages, Don—<£so
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
Prize. Value.
49. One Cottage, Don- <£so, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... ,£5O
50. Two Stables, Don—<£so, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 50
51. Allotment, Turton-street, Devonport
.£5O, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 50
52. Allotment, Northam —<£50, or cash
less 10 per cent. ... ... ... 50
53 and 54. Two Building Allotments,
Launceston—.£so each, or cash less
10 per cent. ... . ... ... 100
55 to 58. Four Cottages, Don—.£2s each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 100
59 to 61. Three Cottages, Don—£2s each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 76
62 to 66. Five Allotments, Latrobe—.£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 125
67 to 70. Four Allotments, Leith—<£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
71 to 74. Four Allotments, Penguin—
<£2s each, or cash less 10 per cent. 100
75 to 124. Fifty Lots, Strahan—
.£lo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
125 to 145. Twenty-one Building Lots,
Don— <£s each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ... ... ... 105
146 to 168. Twenty-three Building Lots,
Don— £s each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ••• ••• ... ... 115
169 to 188. Twenty 5-Aere Lots, Don—
<£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
189 to 208. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don—
d£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
209 to 224. Sixteen 1-Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 80
£250,080
In the event of the total number of tickets not being SOLD, the Drawing will take place
pro rata, and a proportionate number of the alternative Cash Prizes will be included in
such drawing.
TO TATTERSALL—
Please allot me shares
in the above Lottery.
Name
Address
Sydney C.
RUN AT RAND WICK
6th APRIL.
25,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTEESALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
N ame
Address
£
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me I __ Shares in
the above.
Name !
Address ! _
£,
CAULFIELD C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
the above.
Name
Shares in
£.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Business Announcement.
For
Infants, Children,
AND Invalids.
A Complete Food in Itself.
Recommended by the Highest Medical Authorities
throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
FOR THE DESTRUCTION
-OF ALL
Insect Pests,
KRUSE’S
Insecticide
Is the ONLY RELIABLE Agent.
CERTAIN in ACTION. QUICK in RESULTS.
Is quite Harmless to Animal Life, and can
with perfect Safety be, applied to Dogs,
Cats, Poultry, &c.
Preserves Clothing from the ravages of the Moth.
Destroys Aphis and Vine Caterpillar.
Far more effectual than Tobacco Smoke in
Ferneries.
BEWARE OF USELESS IMITATIONS,
and see that you get
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE.
In TINS at Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., & 10s. each.
SOLD EVERVWHERK.
529 George St.,
p
NEAR LIVERPOOL ST.
OILS.
Paperhangings.
Paints.
Ma teria(i
'Ctu
°Ulcj
g-s
o,
&
£
o
*
c 2
ARTISTS’
DEPOT. .
Window
Decorations.
Plate & Sheet Glass
Polar Refrigerating Paint reduces the heat
in buildings from 40° to 50°.
H. H. Groth, Junr., & Co.
529 George Street, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect in
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
whioh so fa vorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearing C.B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
esale Agents—
Chisholm Lane,
J. E. NEWPORT .V SONS,
Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Mklbourn;
.A..
19
jA. . M -A-
HAIRDRESSER,
Hunter Street,
Pt K S
City,
to intimate to his numerous customers
il,h(. in addition to the above, he has Jfe=***
a Ilia'll-class CIGAR and iOBACCOMSI
{STORE, next Empire Hotel, Hunter-street.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
quyer of all other Australian gems.*
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
111 Try It.’
UffILUINI
Posted (under cover)
to any partof Austra
lasia orNewZealand.
price, 10 <>
Sole Afients:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st.,
Sydney
NOW
dried
owl
THE
Si
BES
IN THE
MARKET
M.W.HC 0
TWELVE HUNDRED new ways to
Make Money.
pg?:. Sent Post Free for 2/6.
C. SMITH & CO., 264 Russell St., MELBOURNE
Business Announcements.
VOLCANIC
Soda Water
Is ABSOLUTELY PURE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
The Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Co.,
Bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
DEBT COLLECTING.
The Victorian Debt Collecting Agency
101 Swanston St., Melbourne,
Recovers Debts on behalf of Mercantile firms, Professional
men, etc., by a Thoroughly Organised and Effective
System.
Highest References. Correspondence Invited.
HOLDSWOETH & CO-,
101 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
WHO’S MAKING THE PACE
IN THE
Bedstead, Bedding,
AND
WOVE-WIRE MATTRASS TRADE?
Why,
gawler & (Sons, j. Telephone,
30 years. ( 612 George-street, Sydney. ) °‘
And the reason WHY?
Because
Healthy Bedding being absolutely essential to
cheerful health and length of years, the only quality
they manufacture is the very purest and best.
esr For All-round Value, LAWLER’S are not to
be beaten.
£T No ORDER too small or CONTRACT too
large.
Contents of LAWLER’S Mattrasses guaran-
teed as represented.
US’ Orders executed prompt to time.
You Will never sleep soundly, and in the morn-
ing rise vigorous and refreshed, unless you procure
your Bedstead, Wire Mattrasses and Bedding
from
LAWLER & SONS,
612 George-street, SYDNEY.
R. P. MORTON,
Special Shirt Maher
And MERCER,
S X R. A. 3XT D ,
195 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
-THE-
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Has been THOROUGHLY RENOVATED and
RE-FURNISHED,
And I am NOW READY to RECEIVE my
Old and New Friends.
Thos. AscHe
(late of Royal Hotel),
PROPRIETOR
■ | ■ H E “ O Z CD KT E,”
WARRNAMBOOL, VICTORIA.
The Coolest Seaside Resort of Au tralia.
Testimonial, July 2,1895. —“ Have spent a very plea-
sant ten days at Warrnambool, and are delighted at the
town and your excellent hotel, the Ozone, where we
have received every attention. Were the qualities of the
place known, many visitors from Sydney, who now go to
Tasmania, would certainly come here.”—Mr. and Mrs.
Denison Miller, Sydney, N.S. W.
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
BALMORAL HOUSE
Is the most centrally-situated for sight-seeing in
this delightful and bracing climate. Visitors and
invalids will find every home comfort, excellent
table and attendance. Terms—2 guineas ; 8/- per
day. Private suites, 3 guineas. Apply Manager.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar ... Proprietor.
SALISBURY HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
Private Boarding Establishment.
(Within Three Minutes of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONforVisitors. SPECIAL
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
JST' Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is — ,
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
TANKARDS TKMPERANCE HOTEL,
Corner LONSDALE & QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Manager.
Publications .
Under the patronage of His Excellency the Governor
Noted for Celebrities:
TA.LMA. & CO.,
—Artist Photographers—
-119 Swanston Street (opp. Town Hall),
MELBOURNE.
Paris Panels, 20/- per doz.; Cabinets, 15/-
rpHE New ‘Albert ’
-l- Accordeons, two full sets of
reeds, DOUBLE action, Price 21/-.
Same, superior tone and finish,
26/-. The New AUTOHARP—an>
person can play this instrument,
or vamp his own accompaniments
to thousands of songs, without
any knowledge of music whatever
Price, with 3 Pedals, 2 books of
tunes, &e., 16/-; Superior tone and
finish, with 6 Major and Minor
pedals, 26/-. Post Free. The ‘PHCE-
NIX’ Organette (forpieces,hymns
or dances, worked by the handle).
Best, strong and Sweetest Music
in the world—a child can play it. Price, with 6 popular
tunes, 25/-; large size, 55/-. Only at J. ALBERT &
SON, 118 King Street, SYDNEY. Violin, mandoline,
guitar, banjo, cornet, anglo, and concertina catalogue for-
warded Free. NOTlCE.—Messrs. J. Albert & Son are
the only musicsellers in Australia charging for all Two
Shilling Pieces, songs and waltzes at 1/9, post FREE.
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
THE GOVERNMENT
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
DICTIONARY J
STANDARD
Send for free prospectus
containing' specimen
pages, illustrations and
full particulars
G.&C.MerriamCo,
Publishers,
40 Hunter St.,
Sydney.
SECRETS OF NATURE
REVEALED.
Book of Nature.
Guide Marriage Life and Relations of the Sexes,
contains 50 engravings, full and explicit explanation of
the structure and uses of the organsof life and generation
in mankind ; Marriage, its uses and abuses, the rights
and wrongs of Marriage, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, by Dr. L. M. Byrn, 3/6 ; post,
4/-. Decameron, 3/-. Heptameron, 3'-. Radical Remedy
in Social Science, regulating reproduction, with hints on
matters important, necessary to be known by the married,
1/- • post, 1/2. Artistotle, complete Midwifery, colored
plates, 36 ; post, 4/-. Venus and Adonis, 1,6. Girl with
three pair stays, 1/- ", post, 1/3. Rosario, the female
Monk, 2/-. “ Amours of Gustave,” from the French, 1/-;
post, t/3. Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, self-defence without a teacher, Is. Rabelais, 2/6 ;
’’"“A Fatal Sin,” by Balzac, 1/6, post free. The
Devil in Sydney, or Barmaids, Baldheads, Mashers, etc.,
1/- •by post, 1/2. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free, 7 6 ; send for pamphlet giving full contents Plain
Home Talk, post free. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it
should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, postl/2. Wonderful Song
Book, extra large, 16. How to Mesmerise, Thought Read-
ing Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/0. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated, price 16. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 16.
“The Silent Friend,” illustrated private medical book,
invaluable to all, by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
Can you afford to have a large family? Read the
Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted book, “ Fruits of Philo-
sophy,” 1/-; post, 1/2. “ Romance of a Fair Girl’s Bath-
room,” 1,6, post free. Male Generative Organs, in health
and disease, from infancy to old age, with the treatment
of all their derangements, for every man’s own private
use • illustrated by m me ous engravings and colored
plates, by Dr. Hollick, M.D. ; new revised Australian
edition, 26, post free. Ft. BEAR, Cheap Book
Depot, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Greo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
A LONDON SUCCESS.
New Coon Song.
OH, HONEY, WILL YOU LUB DIS COON.
Price, 6d.
Also, same price, the popular song, “LOVE’S VESPER
HOUR,” by Lindsay Lennox, and “ LOVE’S VESPER
WALTZ,” by Then. Bonheur. 1006 other SONGS,
DANCES, etc., at 3d. EACH, of all Dealers, or from
Publishers, W. PAXTON A CO., 203 Svvaustoil-st.,
Melbourne, and 1!> Oxford Street, London.
Catalogues Free.
r#
r-..
The poor Barmaid havin',
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready , post free Is Cd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
Mdm. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
TO COUNTRY NEWSPAPER PRO-
PRIETORS.
A quantity of Humorous
Electro Illustrations, singly
or in lots. Proof-sheets and particulars on appli-
cation to
MANAGER, “ BULLETIN,"
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR SALE.
A Self-Made Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was his boast that he began
His life in squalid ignorance,
To learn he never had a chance
(He seemed to think it a romance),
This Self-Made Man.
Then when upon his chin the down
Commenced to show, across the seas
He came, his native land to please,
And landed in “ the colonies ”
With half-a-crown.
And after forty years or so
Of playing at the griping game
A full-blown Fatman he became ;
Yet still he had the very same
Half-crown to show.
And so he rose to wealth and power
On that half-crown—’twas ever thus—
While we, who have no overplus
Of coin—it would have lasted us,
Say, half-an-hour.
Vast-paunched, with pride-congested head,
He’d rise at banquets—chiefly free —
And tell this yarn unceasingly
Till all who heard it wished that he
Would drop down dead.
He walked about, as in a trance,
Self-hypnotised by his own worth—
His waistband girdled all on earth
He cared for—’twas a goodly girth
Of arrogance.
He died, as even Fatmen do
(Thank Heaven !) and heaved a husky sigh
As though to say, “ Poor world—good-bye !
I know that you will miss me—l
Feel sad for you ! ”
And when before the Judgment Seat
He came, no whit abashed was he,
But said to his Creator —“ We,
O Lord, I reckon, will agree—
Our views will meet.”
“How?’’said the Lord, “presumptuousclod?”
He answered—“ Thus are cases fit—
A self-made Man am I, to wit,
And you, Lord, are, you nrast admit,
A Self-made God.”
C. R.
Gr. 11. Sims tells two good English yarns in
a recent Referee. A young parson was called
upon to take the place of a sick chaplain at the
county gaol on the morning of an execution. The
condemned criminal, a notoriously hard case,
didn’t want to see the new chaplain, any more
than he had cared to listen to the old one, but at
last the novice managed to get alongside his spiri-
tual charge and ask him what he was thinking
about in this solemn hour of death. The mur-
derer objected to the question, on the ground that
his bloomin’ thoughts were his own business.
“My friend,” said the verdant shepherd, “as a
servant of God it is my duty, my business, to do
all I can for you.” This was playing right into
the hands of the impenitent sheep. He gazed
sternly at his tormentor and replied : “You’re a
servant of God, are you ? Then look’ee ’ere, young
feller, you’d better be blanky careful what you say
to me, for in half-an-hour I shall be seeing your
guv’nor.” Sims’s other anecdote came from the
lunatic-asylum, where jockey Giles—known as a
“chalk jockey ” in his time, because he invariably
rode stiff ’uns —was confined. One of the punting
warders (all warders are horsey-minded) came to
Giles for an opinion on the chance of Sprite for
the Chester Cup. “ What do you think about
Sprite?” asked the warder, “I think,” said the
insane jock., “ that if you’ve backed that to win
the Cup, you ought to be the patient in this
asylum, and I ought to be taking care of your
money.”


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Yictorian opium is adjudged at least equal
to the best Turkey opium, and only distinguish-
able from the latter by being slightly lighter in
color. Turkey opium (that most used in medi-
cine) averages _ 8 per cent, morphia, Egyptian 6
per cent., Persian 9 per cent.; Yictorian averages
To Cure Sore Throats
WOUNDS, BURNS, SORES, and all DISCHARGES, and for purifyine drihkine
„.. , „ „ water, use CONDY'S FLUID. 3 S
London tl ß ° 01 di 1 r every bottle. Condy & Mitchell, of
ixmaon, iaigiand, are the sole makers. Insist on buying “OON 1 ‘Y'< FLUID.”
Use “Condy’s Fluid.”
THE PREMIER HOTEL OF AUSTRALIA.
A
ft -
: Si I
iggip
•as.
“THE AUSTRALIA.”
11. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
/jf CHARGES I
(Per Day)
Inclusive of all Meals and Attendance.
SINGLE ROOMS—
-12 6, 15- &. 16/-
DOUBLE ROOMS-
-25 -, 30/-, 34 - & 36 -
SUITE OF ROOMS—
-40 -, 50/- &. 60-
Special Rates to Permanent Boarders
from
&3 10- PER WEEK.
Extract from Max O'Rell's Boole
of Impressions on the Colonies: —
“Sydney has as much right to he
proud, of this hotel as her harbor.”
J
/Fireproof Throughout.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Hot and Cold Water in
every Room.
Lighted throughout by J
Electricity. -
FFIOCLAMATIOKT.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO CIGARETTE SMOKERS,
WE beg to inform our customers and cigarette smokers generally that the American Tobacco Co.,
Ltd., of N.S.W., who control the sale of cigarettes known under the brands of “Allen and
Ginter’s Straight-out No. 1,” “Cameo” and “ Old Judge,” and who manufacture the colonial-made
cigarettes called “ Pure Gold ” and “ Dixon’s No. 1,” have given us official notice that they will not
supply us with any of their American-made cigarettes unless we agree to relinquish the agency held by
us for New South Wales for the world-renowned English firm of W. D. and H. O. WILLS, Limited,
the manufacturers of those popular high-class cigarettes known as
“ TIHZIELIEIE] CASTLES” and “ CAPSTAIT.”
We have declined to conform with this request, as we feel it would not be to the nterest of
cigarette smokers in New South Wales to allow the American Tobacco Co., Limited, to monopolise
the whole of the cigarette trade. We, therefore, appeal to cigarette smokers to try the celebrated
Wills’ “ Three Castles” and (< Capstan” Cigarettes,
And compare their quality with that of any other. We are confident that their verdict will be in
favor of the
“Three Castles” and “ Capstan” Cigarettes,
And by smoking these they will prevent any one Company from attempting to dictate what people
should or should not smoke.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO. (Agents for W. D. and H. 0. WILLS, Ltd.)
CORNETS.
F. BESSON &, CO.’S
Celebrated “ Prototype ” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Ulustr’n., £l2 12/-
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins*st.,
Melbourne. «
Agent for F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
Dr. Keith’s
FRIZES 3VE fiDAL
Baking Powder
Is the irtcal Thing.
TRY IT.
tar AND HAVE SOME GENUINE BAKING POWDER FOR A CHANGE.
Gillespie’s Flaked “ Grainea
Is the Most Perfect PORRIDGE POOD ever Invented.
“Worth a Guinea a Box.”
3 e !^ m ’S
—FOE ALL—
Bilious & Nervous Disorders
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver & Female Ailments.
LARGEST SALE OF ANY PATENT MEDICINE IN THE WORLD,
Being over 6,000,000 Boxes Yearly.
Beeeham’s Cough Pills
STAND UNRIVALLED FOR
Coughs, Asthma, Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, etc.
In Boxes, ls. l|d., and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions
The Is. ljd. Box contains 56 Pills.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
KECOMMPNDS ITSELE. It is Efficacious, Economical,
Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and is a Reliable,
and Pleasant Dentifrice. -
In Collapsible Tubes, of all Druggists, One Shilling.
PREPARED ONLY BY THE PROPRIETOR,
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
H. HILLIER, Manufacturer & Importer,
ISS & 137 Sussex-street, Sydney.
The Best and Cheapest House in the Colony for Vehicles, Saddlery & Harness.
ELEPTIC SPRING SULKIES (as shown), £7 15s.
SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 395. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, £6 10s.
AMERICAN SULKIES, 955.
Send for a Catalogue and secure the Bargains. All Saddles Made equal to Ordered Work.
Price from 3!is. 6d., complete.
PE RDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Hose, Eureka Hose, Canvas Hose,
FOR
Gardens, Brewers, Steam, Suction,
Etc., Etc.
Tennis Balls, Backets, Shoes, &c.
ILLUSTRATED LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
2*70 George Street, SYDNEY.
FROZEN MEAT EXPORT.
Messrs. BERGL & BRABBIN have the honor to inform the pastoralists of Queensland that
they are now able to offer the very best facilities for them to send their surplus stock home. They
can have their stock treated on owners account, either at Bowen or Gladstone, and disposed of to
Mil f I® n dVaniage “ England by the SAME FIRM. If treated at any of the other works,
WIII be T° St happy t 0 take charge of their shipments on arrival in London,
will m've 611 c iar 8' especially the PERSONAL attention given to each consignment
will give satisfaction. For full particulars apply
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin,
LONDON, LIVERPOOL, etc., ENGLAND. SYDNEY, BOWEN, GLADSTONE.
OR. ROPE'S
ViWER K BROOD
o\i]Vß\FN\\Uj
compound
MAKES NEW RICH BLOOD.
Has been proved by
Living Witnesses.
i
F you are troubled with Sick Headache, Loss of Appe-
tite, Constipation, Disorders of the Stomach, Liver
or Kidneys, take Dr. Hope’s Com-
pound. Do you feel Weak and
Debilitated, Ambitionless and
Depressed, then take Dr. Hope’s
Compound. It completely changes
the entire system by removing all
impurities, and Invigorating the
Exhausted and Debilitated con-
stitution.
There are no failures and no disap
pomtments. It acts gently, pleasantly
and quickly. For all Female Com-
plaints it has no equal on earth.
Gives Vigor and renewed strength to
tlie human system when deranged by
Overwork or Excesses.
It will eure you.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. PRICE, 3/6, BY POST, 4/-
wfP'S’llS in aU oases of Nervous
1 xhau * m 0n ’ Blood Diaoi dera, Liver, Kidney
n Stomach Troubles and regain your former healt*
nnrn.nm iegamyouriormerhealtl
PREPARED ONLY AT THE AUSTRALIAN APOTHECARIES’ CISPtNSARY,
506 GEORGE STREET
A Melbourne woman has been committed
for trial charged with an almost entirely new
crime. According to the evidence on which the
committal was made, she had had a disagreement
with a young man over “another girl,’’ and pro-
ceeded to get level with him by registering the
birth of an imaginary infant of which he was said
to be the father. She didn’t intend to blackmail
him, only to “ let people know what a bad man he
was.” If the case is proved this Melbourne
woman has opened up an interesting and hitherto
much-neglected department of crime. “Conceal-
ment of birth ” is old enough, but publication of
birth which didn’t take place is almost new.
Australian Anarchist Andrews, in Reason,
notes the curious trifles on which the introverted
mind of a gaol-prisoner feeds: —
The eagerness with which, at Biloela, I took every
opportunity of posting myself on an elevation for a smail
outlook upon the harbor and its shores ; the relish with
which, after familiarising myself almost with the indi-
vidual peculiarities of every grain of sand in the face of
the sandstone wall, I observed on one occasion the exis-
tence of a moth’s egg in one of the tool-marks; the magni-
fied contrast of colors which I strained my eyes to dis-
cover in the stones of Darlinghurst, dull and uniform-
tinted to casual view ; the critical scanning of a cell I had
not been in before, for a different distribution of the bug-
marks, a different scaling down in the whitewash, a differ-
ent brightening of the bolt and edges of the inner door by
friction; the delight afforded by the discovery of a red
featherwhichthewindhadcarriedoverthewall; the intense
interest with which I watched the behaviour of a sparrow’s
feather caught in an eddy, and the train of reflections to
which it gave rise on the subject of aerial navigation ; the
individual identification of every sparrow that came to
feed in our yard, and the naming of them after the
warders according to their bodily peculiarities; the excru-
ciating agony of interest with which the first turning on
of the electric-light in the gaol was watched ; the strange
sensations produced by a political meeting, and the play-
ing of a band near the gaol; then the growing indiffer-
ence to these things, as to any other impressions which
did not subserve the imposed routine ; the tendency to
“ brown study ” and passive vacuity—just as when, being
without food for four days, as happened several times to
me in the past, I would pass from the eager picking up of
individual crumbs of the size of a pin’s head, to a loss of
appetite and loathing of food, and, when I got the means
to buy some, could not bring myself to eat it except by
resorting to stimulants.


Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Great Emporium.
The Colossal and Artistic Show of Australasia.
Universally Renowned as the Great English Cash Trading Firm.
In Full Swing- under the Freetrade Banner of New South Wales.
“ Cash is the life, the crown of trade, for all that’s good, for all that’s made. Then, buy for cash, all who would share cheapest and best for look and wear.
Its voice is loudest ’midst the throng ; its music grandest in the song ; its banner highest up the hill; its motto “ Upward, onward still.’
The Comprehensive Character, the Elegance, Variety, and Extent of Our Stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, DIAMONDS, SILVERWARE, and
SPECIALTIES have never been approached. Our Establishment is a complete Constellation of Brilliancy, and a Panorama of Artistic Show.
Prices saving to every Purchaser from Six to Eight Shillings in the Pound.
Watches at Freetrade Prices.
Our Ow„ Make, of World-Wide Repute, Si.ver, JSVer“ JEsX
Out LadS'lS GoldPrta “2 Kiyless HwnteS, £5 10s, are cheap at ten guineas. Nonpareil ditto. j!7 10s, never equalled. Solid, substantial and reliable. Every watcb a work o( art.
Gold Jewellery at Freetrade Prices.
,, t) . M fifi to 12s fid fJem Set Gold Brooches, 10s fid to 30s Highest grades, 30s to =£lo, thousands to select from, all the very pick of London, latest designs ; Gold
Elegant Gold Brooches, all pn*», »' fad to 12s fid em Ballgles , any price, f. om 30s to =£B 10s ; Ladies’ Gem Rings, in new designs, from 10s fid to -£5 ; Wedding and
Bangles and sp ’ Pendants and Neck Chains, elegant variety, from 4s fid'to 25s ; Locket ditto, Long Muff Chains, Pencil Cases, Fob Chains, Sovereign Purses, Links,
Stud’s, and Pins, a labyrinth in variety and display, and at prices to suit every purchaser.
Diamonds at Freetrade Prices.
Silverware at Freetrade Prices.
. . . . , atpflmerB At least Five Thousand Articles to select from. Toilet crushes, Hand Mirrors, bcent and bait Bottles, Bowder Boxes, trinket Brxes,
IS 'SSsja sssi P B rr E §&sair ctoB ’“• MatchBoxes '-* vwtour —* -
Electro-plate at Freetrade Prices.
„ A , v i f nw ahead of all comnetitors The Novelty, Variety and Character of our Stock embrace everything worch looking for, our Londom
In this Department £or T^®J^ e every reliable mike 1 A walk through our saloons will bring under the notice of those who so favor us hundreds upon hundreds of New Elegant Articles of
Se U v S e e ry e bls r tmak°e r 5 5,23 from 3s 6dTo 20s mosTuitabß for presents B In this Department our Prices will be found in many instances one-half that usually charged.
• * ahnve line it will nav vou to write to us. Whether you live in New South Wales or otherwise, it will pay you to visit us, and also interest you to view
T J you are a fc ß S r ably a mthe Queers Dominions devoted to our line of business, containing the Grandest Exhibition and Variety of Stock ever bought together. Everything New, Eve y thing
Elegant? Everything at Prices which no competition can come near.
Illustrated Pamphlet, Post Free. Goods Forwarded (Duty and Carriage Paid) to any part of Australasia.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 Georoe-street, and Strand , Sydney , New South Wales.
Sunshime and Hain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was hot, with a dazzling, roasting heat
that baked the ground, scorched the grasses, and
dried, up the water-holes, and from one end of the
great West to the other there was not to be seen
a blade of green herbage, a running creek, or a fat
beast of any kind. The sun—red, wrathful—cast
a bloodshot eye everywhere: north, south, east
and west.
M‘Allister drove along the monotonous road
leading from Lambing Downs to his own home-
stead, Bumbarri. On each side ran for miles and
miles a dusty, straggling fence. It extended until
the dazzling heat-waves permitted the eye no
longer to follow it; as with the road, it was lost
in a misty simmering.
The two dust-grimmed horses with sweaty flanks
wearily tugged at the light buggy, and M‘Allister
gazed at the dry herbage upon the plains, thinking
of the mischief a stray spark would make; this
same thought had been his companion all the
journey, and had caused him to forego his pipe.
Suddenly he jerked the horses to a standstill. A
lone, ragged figure sat upon a swag in the road-
way. An old slouched hat was pulled over the
eyes, and the head was bowed upon two grimy
hands.
“ Hallo ! ” cried M‘Allis ter.
The head, lacking an eye, looked lazily up.
“ Going to camp here ? ” asked M'Allister.
“ I spec so, boss,” said the one-eyed man.
A vision of a fire boiling a billy flashed through
M'Allister’s mind with horrible vividness. Then
he said :
“ Better chuck your swag in the back and jump
up. I’ll drive you to the homestead. Rations
and the travellers’-hut will be better than here.”
The sundowner looked momentarily surprised.
His single optic wandered over the land reflec-
tively. Then he smiled as one who knows °nd
climbed into the buggy.
* * * •
Six months later. The string of water-
holes upon which Bumbarri was built had become
a rushing, roaring stream. The rain still poured
down continuously, and was likely to do so for
some time ; and M‘Allister, sitting on the veran-
dah, looked contentedly at the flood.
The sun had not been seen that day, and the
evening was gloomy before its time. A wet, be-
draggled figure carrying a bluey loomed through
the mist and stood on the edge of the opposite
bank.
“ Hello !” it hailed.
“ Well ? ” yelled M'Allister across the water.
“ Row us across in the dingy, boss.”
“It’s that old ‘whaler’ that’s always about,”
said M'Allister to himself. Then aloud—“ Go to
the devil !”
“ I don’t think he can do much harm this
weather,” he murmured, going inside to his tea.
The man with the swag (he had but one eye)
cursed to himself, then to his swag, and finally to
the universe. After which he got under a log and
made himself as comfortable as possible for the
night.
• * * *
Next summer M'Allister was burnt out—
lock, stock, and barrel. No one knew how the
fire originated. Some alleged, however, that a
man with one eye had camped in No. 4 paddock
the night before. But that was merely hearsay.
Nevertheless M'Allister, girthing up one of the
few horses remaining to him, prior to departing to
file his schedule, was heard to murmur—
“ Perhaps it would have paid better if I had
rowed that one-eyed devil across that night.”
Perhaps it would,
H. A. CONANT.
The recent diplomatic difficulty with Hol-
land has brought Canning’s couplet into common
use with loyal papers :
In matters commercial the fault of the Dutch
Is giving too little and asking too much.
And how true it is, too, the other way about:—
In matters commercial the British have much
The same little tricks as their neighbors, the Dutch.
Fireworks from the first issue of Hydera-
bad (India) Times :
We start this paper by the help of the Supreme Being,
who has illuminated the Roof over our heads with num-
bers of golden globes, which never require any cleaning
and shine equally upon everything without making any
distinction between them. In the same manner he has
decorated the Earthern thrones with sparkling jewellery
crowns, in whose light the two classes of animals live
comfortably and peacefully ; out of those crowns there is
only one which is most popular, valuable, and substantial,
the shadow of which is called universally a “ perfect light,”
the person who takes protection under it becomes very
lucky and remains safe for ever ; the well-known owner of
it is called Her Majesty the Empress of India.
It sounds like the pronouncement of a black Dan
O’Connor.
England has several times bitten off more
of South Africa than she could chew, and at
least once had recourse to prayer in order to
obviate lockjaw. Having got into an unholy
mess with the natives, the Cape Govt, proclaimed
Xmas Day, ’5l, as “a day of solemn humiliation
and prayer before God.” But things got no better
very fast. Then the Devil took a hand. Gov.
Smith was recalled, and Cathcart set to work.
Fifteen months of Kaffir-killing and Basuto
butchery ended, in ’53, in a re-establishment of
peace. And the result was claimed as a direct
answer to prayer.
A young Melbourne damsel got a severe
shock to her nerves, recently, from beholding
Undertaker Sleight for the first time. Just pre-
vious to the death of her aged uncle, which hap-
pened two or three years ago, she had a vivid,
gruesome dream, as follows She saw a short,
thick-set man, with his head under his arm, enter
her uncle’s room, tap the old gentleman on the
shoulder, and lead him downstairs into the garden.
In the garden there was a deep hole dug. The
dreamer saw her uncle dragged to the edge of the
Eit by the strange visitor, who said, from under
is arm, “ Dust to Dust!” in a sepulchral tone.
After which he toppled the venerable relative
down the cavity, and the young lady awoke
screaming. A fortnight later her uncle’s funeral
was transacted by Augustus Sleight, but the
dreamer, not being acquainted with the personality
of that famous undertaker, attached no psycho-
logical import to his connection with the melan-
choly event. It was not until the other day that
she saw, walking down Collins-street, the muti-
lated vision who had called for uncle in her dream.
Sleight was the aforesaid harbinger of death.
Augustus is evidently the sort of coming event
that casts a shadow before, and The Bulletin
will be glad to hear suggestions as to why his
spectre should unscrew its head. The great
original wears his head, and pours refreshments
down his neck, quite the same as every other
man.
Dear Bulletin, —A little W.A. experi-
ence. On Jan. 15 I and two mates making for
Roebourne struck a telegraph-station not 100 miles
from that city of pretty little Jap. women. Not a
soul about. Notice on the door: “ Gone to land-
ing ; back in half-an-hour,” Waited; no fresh
tracks coming or going ; camped and took posses-
sion. All doors open; keys in desks, drawers,
cupboards; telegrams, &c., open for anyone to
inspect; watches and chains lying about; clothes
hanging on line ; bread risen in tins ready for the
oven ; meat in bucket boiled to shreds. Obviously
a helter-skelter evacuation. We wondered why.
Overhauled things ; found last .wire:—“ 4J inches
rain ; river a banker; still raining ; leave for the
hills.” Now, we, who arrived, as stated, on Jan,
15th, had no rain since Jan. 11th. The telegraph
staff, we found out afterwards, retreated Jan. 12.
On Jan. 17 one man came back ; Jan. 18 brought
another; and on Jan. 20 the third and last turned
up. Now, if I and my mates and others can be
depended on, the river was never a banker, and
never came within 15 feet of the telegraph- station
level. Therefore, ? ? ? ? ? ?— Prospector.
A £30,000 museum and public library is
to be built in Perth (W.A.) on the site of an old-
time gaol. Thus the State now seeks to elevate
the mind on the spot where it used to elevate the
body.
Dear Bulletin, —Niggers’ “justice” in
Westralia. Time: last Dec. Place : inland from
Roebourne. White man has a native down on
the ground, thrashing him for some trifling affair.
Native manages to struggle free. The first
thing he sees is a tomahawk, which he picks
up and throws at his flogger, cutting him on the
leg. Native put on the chain and taken to town-
ship ; white taken to hospital. Native brought
before magistrate and sentenced to six months’
hard. Later in the day magistrate discovers
native will have to be sent to Roebourne for that
term. Native brought up again, and sentence
altered to one month and 25 lashes ! Flogging
duly comes off. Audience —his original assailant
(carried on a stretcher to the place of punishment);
magistrate ; publican, who brings a couple of “ his
natives ” to show them how bad boys are dealt
with ; the policeman who cried out the number of
strokes ; and alleged-white-man flogger who did
the job for 10s. Talk about British Chartered Co.
and Matabeles; Boers and Kaffirs. Bah ! — Crab.
JOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I’ll ask ’im for a rise, blowed if I don’t,” said
Joe ; and he proceeded to his employer’s room.
“ Good mornin’, Mr. Dingle; I’ve come to ask
for a rise. Been ’ere nine months now, sir; think
I’ve given satisfaction, sir.”
“Rise, Joe?” said Mr. Dingle. “Nonsense,
my boy, times are really too bad, and, besides ”
but Joe was gone.
“ Damn ’im ! I knew it was no good.”
Joe did very little work that morning ; he was
thinking hard. When Mr. Dingle summoned
him to go to the bank, he started and blushed.
With £5O in gold, Joe set out, and, when he
had passed the bank, he glanced nervously right
and left.
“ It must be done,” he said ; “ I’ve got to clear
out. Damn the totes ! ” Joe went to the railway
station ; but when he found there was no train
for an hour he returned towards Circular Quay.
“I’ll get aboard one o’ them sailing vessels,” he
said.
Then a new idea struck him, and he set off for
Parramatta, where he would get a train without
being seen.
Nervousness again seized him and he became
very depressed. He began to wish he hadn’t
bolted, and the tears came to his eyes. A ’bus
went past, and Joe ran to catch it.
“ Stop thief ! ” cried a newsboy, and Joe nearly
fell with fright. He saw a policeman in the ’bus,
and ran back.
“ Damn’yer ! ” yelled out the driver.
“ It’s no good. I’ll give myself up,” said Joe,
and he hurried towards Mr. Dingle’s office. As
he approached the bank it occurred to him to pay
in the money, and he did so.
“ That you, Joe ? ” said Mr. Dingle.
“Yes, sir,” said Joe, as he entered his em-
ployer’s office with downcast eyes.
“ I’ve been thinking about that rise,” said Mr.
Dingle, good-humoredly; “7s. 6d. is rather small,
and I’ll give you 12s. 6d. from to-day. Pay in
that money, Joe? Ah, I see you have the receipt.
You’re crying, boy. What’s wrong? Not well?”
“ No, sir,” said Joe as he left the room.
Sydney.
EDWARD RAY.
Port Wine Mary .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nor a pedigree girl. No one knew whence sht
came, but the boys saw that she was “all there,”
and, like Eve in Eden, the only woman on the
diggings. The impression she left upon the minds
of all beholders was that of a charming but incon-
gruous picture combination of black hair, great,
stag-like eyes, luscious lips, print dress, and man’s
coat and hard-hitter hat. The two last were once
the property of Fred, the bailiff of the diggings.
Nature has so constructed what is called the
weaker sex that even the courtesan has loving
predilections ; and the bailiff of the early diggings
is not the Uriah Heep-like sneak of more advanced
civilisation.
When Mary heard from one of the gang who
sought her favor that Burgess and Sullivan in-
tended to stick up Fred when on his way, coin-
laden, from Donnelly’s to Ross, she determined
that Fred should be absent and that she herself
would be there. So she lied to Fred and told him
that she had seen the man he sought going up
Jones’ Creek, and thither he went. And then in
the grey dawn of the morning, hatted and coated,
as the komako sang his matin to the coming day,
Port Wine Mary went to tell the gang that their
victim had escaped—went to jeer at them, in
fact. The gang cursed her not. They chaffed
her on the cut of her coat and offered her
a drink, which she scornfully refused, and started
back for home. Rounding the flange of a
giant pukatea tree-trunk, whose upper branches
were gaudy with the ruddy bloom of the rata, a
fiery stream shot out from the under-scrub.
Port Wine Mary was never seen again on
Donnelly’s.
The gang worked on the principle that dead
men or women tell no tales, and, although it is
known that they robbed and murdered many, of
whom over twenty are buried between the Grey
and Hokitika, there is no living witness to their
crimes
R.S.


■
i is ill
mm
1
. .
. . . One that
. . . Speaks
. . . For Itself.
. . . And
. . „ Commands
, „ . Attention,
A New
□■ ■ ■
Style.
w. H. PALING & CO.
limited,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS for the FAMOUS PIANOS of
nway t ta., itich. Lipp * Son, John Bnnsanead t Sana, Ju, ius Faurich, Uatal * Legate,
Erard & Co., Victor, etc., etc.
His Lucky Hay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man sat at the table, writing; the woman by
the wide fireplace grinding maize in an old coffee-
mill. It was a slab-hut with the crevices between
the unhewn planks clay-plugged ; above, the bare
rafters, the inner surface of the bark roof browned
with smoke.
Seated on the earthen floor, two ragged children
were playing jacks with dried peach-stones—they
werenoisy and quarrelled over theirgame. Themill
kept up a regular scrunching sound, but the man
heeded it not ; his face beamed, the rapid move-
ment of his pen was interrupted only while he
gazed with illuminated eyes into the grey bush
seen from the open door. At times he smiled—the
triumphant smile of one victorious.
“ Ann,” he said, “ I have got an inspiration—
it’s simply wonderful. No one has ever thought
of it before ; it will make my name.”
“Yes, John,” answered the woman wearily,
“but don’t you think you had better dig some
ground for potatoes? I could beg a little seed
from my brother.”
“We are all Christians, Ann —all love one
another and believe the Bible. Why not call
delegates from the rich and poor together in con-
ference ; and, coming to a mutual understanding,
abolish poverty ? I would take the chair and see
fair play. It is bound to succeed; every man,
unless he is a fool or a rogue, must agree. It will
be the greatest event in the world’s history.”
DIDN’T CARE TO BE INSIDE.
KANGAROO : “Hello, Leo! have you seen anything of the keeper?"
LEO: “No. Can’t you come in and wait for him'!”
KANGAROO : “ No, thanks. He’d be more apt to bind me here.”.
“ Or couldn’t you hoe a few hills for pumpkins,
John? We have nothing to eat now, but hominy,
and goodness knows what we shall do when that
is gone.”
“ And, after the conference, my dear, they can
surely do no less than make me a paid executive-
officer, to carry out the scheme.”
“You know I do not understand these things.
Remember how you were going to abolish standing
armies, and prevent war, by writing to the Em-
perors of Germany, France, and Russia, and I
don’t know who else—and you never heard any
more of it. And the postage on those letters
would have bought us a bit of meal for dinner this
day.”
“No doubt I was sanguine, Ann, in saying they
would send for me at once. But they are thinking
it over. My reasons cannot fail to strike them.
We may have a royal courier coming for me
shortly. ”
“ I want something to eat, mother ! ” the boy
on the floor cried out.
“You must wait till the pudding is cooked,”
said the woman.
“ I don’t like puggy, it’s nasty ; I want bread,”
shouted the boy.
“ With butter on it,” whispered the girl, who,
though not crying herself, was willing to add her
moral support to the agitation.
“ I want bread, with butter on it,” screamed the
boy, raising his terms with alacrity.
The man continued to write—he heard nothing.
The woman, having finished her grinding, went
out in the bush to gather sticks. The child, find-
ing his outcry
unheeded, re-
lapsed into
sobs and his
game of jacks
again.
Presently
the woman re-
turned to the
doorway, tears
in her eyes,
a strange man
by her side.
“ It has come
at last, John.
I always said
it would
come ! ”
“ What is
it, Ann ? ” re-
plied the hus-
band, jumping
up.
‘ ‘ It’s a bailiff
from Stone,
the st or e-
keeper, you
gave the mort-
gage to. He
is tired of wait-
ing, and has
sent to take
possession,
and—and—we
must go. Now
see what all
your fine ideas
have brought
us to ! ”
“Don’t wor-
ry, my dear.
I always
thought we
were buried here in the bush ; let us go into
town, where there is more scope. Yes, more
scope,” he repeated, as though the word pleased
him.
The woman, with an exclamation of despair, ran
off to a neighbor’s, the crying children clinging to
her skirts.
The stranger entered the house and sat down.
Later, the wife came back with Robson, the next
selector, driving his horse and dray. On this
vehicle the scanty furniture and personal effects
were packed, the family took their seats on top,
and the dray moved town wards.
“ This is most unfortunate,” said the neighbor,
sympathetically.
“Yes,” said the man, “I have been trying to
impress on that bailiff the advantages to society of
the co-operative principle, but I never met anyone
so dense. He does not seem to realise the first
principles of political economy. This bush-life is
accursed. If a man has brains he becomes a
crank—l might even get that way myself if I
stopped here much longer—and with poor intellect
he is little better than the beasts that perish.’
The neighbor did not answer, but called to his
horse. . .
The man continued: “While I was waiting
there for the wife to come back, I got hold of a
splendid new idea—this must be one of my lucky
days. The whole world is at loggerheads:
each people has a different religion from
the others. And all this division over mere
paltry details of no importance. Why not
have a conference of the Archbishop of Can-
terbury, the Pope, and the head of the Russian
church, and by mutual concessions arrange a com-
mon faith? I am sure they only want to meet
together and talk matters over to settle all
disputes once and for all. It is a splendid concep-
tion ! ”
Robson snapped his whip. The woman, un-
heeding the talk, was looking back, gazing at the
neglected clearing, overgrown with wattles and
saplings, at the mean hut that had been their
home, at the picture of her past. The children,
delighted with the ride, were imitating the driver
and calling to the horse.
The man looked forward, his eyes glowing. He
did not see the bush-track, the dog-rail fence, or
the squalid signs of poverty he was leaving; before
him was unfolded a gorgeous panorama, a regal
procession of monarches in an empire city, with
banners and music, and splendid pomp. He was
himself seated in the midst in a golden chariot ac-
claimed by a multitude, a God amongst men.
Entranced, he took out a soiled pocket-book, and
with a beaming face noted the day of the month.
It was his lucky day.
N.S.W.
HENRY FLETCHER.
The anti-German feeling aroused by the
Kaiser’s message to President Kruger cannot be
realised by any one not on the soot,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent. “Such an
~,1 . „ -
outburst has never been known in the memory of
man, and quite puts into the shade the scenes at
the time of the expected war with Russia. There
has not been such a fighting spirit abroad since
the time of George 111., when England went to
work to squelch the French, and succeeded (with
some assistance). The funny incident of the Mel-
bourne people making the German bands play
Rule Britannia has given great satisfaction,
and if Fitzgibbon were here now he would have
no difficulty in floating a big Board of Works
loan.”
The W.A. Govt., which overflows with
sen timent, is endeavoring to stock the Swan
River, near Perth, with swans in imitation of the
Thames swans. It offers to purchase the birds at
bleach. They will be turned loose on the river
and advised to settle down and breed, which
advioe it is said the . odds are against their
acce nting
1
i
Gents . You fve heard of our Pound
Suits? Well, order one. Send your size along,
and we will send the suit, securely packed,
£ 0 ail y p ar fc 0 f New South Wales for One
i-m, c . . ■ .
oun( ‘ * 0 ex^ra f° r postage or carriage,
Address your letters to Hordern Brothers, 203,
205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A Gambler’s Gratitude.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That claim of ours at Fox’s was, in the opinion
of our gold-surfeited party, nearly worked out. It
had dwindled to lOdwt. a day per man when
Mick, the younger brother of Jimmy the gambler,
came along.
Mick was not much of a spieler, but a hard-
working digger, down on his luck, and seeking for
a job to raise tucker for a prospecting tour.
I turned my share in the claim over to Mick,
and went to town for a spell. That spell lasted
seven months, easily.
* * * *
I got into a poker-school at Ross. My dart
was a big Californian, who held much utu. I
wasn’t short of cash at the start, but luck was
against me.
At last, I got a full-hand, and anted-up on it
till the well ran quite dry, and I hadn’t a sovereign
to buck against the ’Frisco-man’s bluff. As my
hands went into my empty pockets in a sort of
hopeless plunge, my face must have told of my
despair.
Then something touched my right hand, and the
rustle of crisp paper whispered a song of hope into
my ear.
I grasped the note —a fiver—and played on.
My chip was taken in change for a larger note,
and when at last I scooped the big pool 1 hardly
noticed that my fortune-bringing fiver was not in
the heap.
It was Jimmy the Gambler, the brother of the
man I had given my claim to over at Fox’s, who
had passed me the note under the table. As I
raked in the pool a Small voice, which made up in
import what it lacked in volume, said :
“ Sonny, it’s a flash ’un ! ”
V * * *
Sixteen hours of fear and trembling
ensued. If my opponent, my particular opponent,
should tire of the game, or if I should happen to
go stone-broke, it meant —well, you know what it
meant on the diggings. I prayed and played my
best, and played on and on.
Just as a new day, breaking into the shanty,
began to make the lamplight look sickly, the
“ flash ’un ” came back to me, and I suddenly lost
all interest in the game.
I had saved at least a ducking in the muddy
creek.
* * * *
Though Jimmy the Gambler was one of
the right sort, his kindness was embarassing.
Maoriland.
ROBIN STUDHOLME.


AYER'S SARSAPARILLA
CURES
Indigestion, Sleeplessness, Loss of Strength and
Appetite, and Nervous Disorders.
vv k \v
The following letter from Mrs. S. Gash, of Kent Town, So. Australia,
Whose portrait is given above, is additional testimony to the remarkable
health-giving power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
“For two years or more I suffered considerably from indigestion,
sleeplessness, and loss of strength and appetite. When I (lid sleep I was
not refreshed, and I always had a severe headache in the morning. I was
induced to try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and was more than pleased at the
result, for after taking three bottles my complaints disappeared, and I
have been in the best of health ever since. I can strongly recommend
Ayer s Sarsaparilla to any one afflicted as I was.”
The wonderful success of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in purifying the blood and
restoring health and strength to systems enfeebled by disease, or the enervat-
ing effect of a warm climate, has led to the placing on the market of other
preparations called Sarsaparilla. Remember that imitation is the sincer-
est form of flattery, and be sure that you get AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
which has stood the test of time, has won the highest awards at the world’s
great expositions, and has been a blessing to the people of Australia, and
all civilized countries, for more than a generation. Xo other medicine operates
so effectually in removing general debility, languor, and all outward symp-
toms of the grave mischief caused by disordered nerves and impure blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
That Enriches and Invigorates the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS, Sugar Coated Mild but Effective.
A/\rs/v»
iiirtV*
A
&
y
0
dr
mmmm tobacco
CLEVELAND STREET SYDNEY
Tales of the Austral Tropics
PRICE, Is. ... per POST, Is. 3d.
“Semper Eadem” Whict ” literally translated, means “ALWAYS THE SAME-.
THIS IS WHY
The “LION” B3 AND.
I defy &ll
to
Approach
if.
r
Lion
IND
$
JS
gc
%
1
m
”':id
OFFKES CwRiMC€§F
*V/oRKJ R£AIT§ t
Of Confectionery is so popular.
ONLY THE FINEST INGREDIENTS USED. THEY ARE THE GREATEST
FAVORITES WITH THE CHILDREN.
Manufactureti Only t> y
James Stedman
Manufacturing 1 Confectioner.
145 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH ?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
“ I was advised by a friend to try your Lung Tonic. To my most agree-
able surprise, after the third dose 1 was able to officiate with perfect ease. I
resolved to add your valuable Medicine to my household remedies, and cer-
tainly shall never be without it.”
(Rev.) F. C. S. KRQENIG, Vicar of St. Barnabas, Hull.
ftvrbridge’s
UfrnialOTtic.
“ As a public speaker and singer, I always find it invaluable for clearing
the voice. It acts like magic on my children for throat and chest com-
plaints, and I have known it save life, when given up by three physicians.”
JOHN BAILEY, Pastor, P.M. Church, Ramsgate.
Try it for Consumption
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRSDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in Bottles, Is. lfd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.


V/
L
I
£O3
REVOLVER
j ' ,*. the:
British Soldiers Favourite
AtNTs” . areW IN GC*
U AllT s SYDHtV U
“T
ALES ov THE CONVICT SYSTEM.’
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ARK—
MAM MATT & SONS,
SPOONS & FORKS!
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
at the show-rooms.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
03 York Street, SYDKTEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MiELBOURKTEI.
G-Oir. Golf. G-Olt
“Silvertown” Golf Balls, Golf Bag’s,
—AND —
‘Jacobs” Patent Golf Club Head.
Made of Best Quality Percha. Thoroughly Hardened. Impervious to Wet.
The most economical Club Head made. The weights to meet all requirements THOROUGHLY
embedded. Improvement on all others. Perfect in balance.
Drivers, Bulgers, and Brasseys for Right and Left Handed Players.
NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS. UNANIMOUSLY POPULAR.
Most important departure from all existing Clubs. The face is corrugated, or marked, as a
Golf Ball, ensuring straighter and longer drives. Fitted on Shaft complete, 12/6
The India Rubber, Gutta Percha
& Telegraph Works Co. Ltd.
Sydney Branch : 283 GEORGE STREET (facing Hunter-street).
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
LTD.
5
Pione
OF
(The COUNTRY MILK TRADE. The CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which
\ The FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more).
I has done so much for the colony and colonies). REFRIGERATION. ICE-MAKING.
Pioneers
OB
Ihe Company sells only the very best articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Cream, Zee, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the City Depots (Refreshment)
}
92
23
KIKTG STREET
ROYAL ARCADE
for AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for Afternoon Teas for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agdts Everywhere. H . PATESON, MaNAOER.
KNOWLES STEAM PUMP WORKS.
jpumps in stock or all Classes.
Boiler Feeding
Tank Filling.
Mining.
Circulating.
Be frige rating.
Water Works.
Drainage.
O
dSlind ONIHNIS
Artesian Well
Salt Water.
Sewerage.
Tannery.
Acid.
Oil Refinery.
Marine.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Parke & Lacy Company Limited, Sydney.
ARTISTIC
WM. WALKER, SONS, & BARTHOLOMZW, LTD,,
KTewest Designs.
Largest Selection,
Lowest Prices.
357 George-street
Sydney,
Next JOftJX
PASSAGES ROOKED
- -v -'/« 1 9 TO ALL, Pi?
TO ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD.
Interpreters en route.
Trouble Saved.
No Commission Charged.
Information Gratis.
Melbourne: 269 Collins-street.
Sydney: 4 Hunter-street, etc., etc.
By
ALL LINES.
ALL CLASSES
At Lowest Rates.
Intending Passengers should apply to
THOS. COOK &
“ -ra A 99 Champagne. EXTRA SUP. DRY.
& CO’S sherries. IN BULK and CASE.
“ MARIPOSA. 99 Cigars. In 50 and 100 BOXES.
The above can now be had from the SOLE AGENTS—
SCOTT, SIBBALD & CO.,
a) BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
prince * S’ of Wines, Spirits and Beers,
2:,,£4i = haymabkk
PBT ~ M". Van'of So y™V"c U "“* " “
' W ' Sh “ ,0 " * *"***"•, ”" d to tl,„ f„ll„„i„ K
taken from his New Special Price-list :
GUINESjiiS ENGLISH STOUT.
ENGLISH ALES.
Foster’s Ale
M‘Ewan’s Ale
Younger’s (Monk)
Bass’s (hot. liy Read Bros.)
Teunent’s (new Brew)
Jeffrey’s ’’
Prestonpan’s „
3 doz. qts., at 9
6
4
7
4
4
0
4
7
4
4
, 27/- case.
Bull Dos; Stout
Boar s Head Stout
.. 4 doz. qts., at 9.9, 39 - case.
4 „ qls. „ 8/9,35;- „
• • 7 ~ pis. „ 6-, 42/- ~
.. 4 „ qts. „ 9—, 36 - „
.. 8 ~ pts. „ 6 6,5.2/- „
..4 „ qts.-,, 9/-, 36/- „
8 ~ pis. ~ 6 6,52;- „
l .Ik. Ij. is also a Divert Importer of the Best
lira aUs of Teas.
Burkes’ “Cat
Beaver
' Send for Special Price-list for '96.
PTv ■- iuacKay-8 Whisky 43/- Case.
m £V I j€| y* |z _ 1 yi rrince of Wales’ Hotel and Refreshment Rooms,
* * * **• * 778 TO 784 GEORGE STREET,
JElaymarket, Sydney.
