

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. PIG STOUT.
CADBURY’S COCOA
A Stimulating', Sustaining* Gup. Made Instantly.
Eat PARSONS’ PURE JAMS.
K. C3-o WATKINS «£& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— _ ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
V FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
Yy
f 4r> ° rf»
W
RAc«A»oCK>
A 4 w 4,
o O,
$
V
R. A. HEIIVEY, Agent, 28 Pitt Stkkbt, SYDNEY.
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
UNR Vfi LIED IN Q UALITY.
ALL VT-cfEK JPL«S
/JV /V S W V QUEENSLAND.
iPifeaitess
mk
Will
B£
m
*
II;
It
[litetasML'illill' m%
>R
ILilAl!
r , r jRi
HSiS- * !■■ i
:^hsikis3
K'l/lj#, ii'i/;
MKlil r MS|' ijJjl! |J|K>.. VI! mSt'MiL j
ROBERTS’
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
4s and 2s per bottle.
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
Whisky, 3/9
Moberts’ Special Whisky for
Influenza.
Splendid Mum for Coughs and
Colds.
Very Superior old Port Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
dfgdfgdfgdfgd
fg
r
Before vlyiting the Of/ wr« the Manager for
CM of Tariff. (jprre;p«ndence promptly attended to r
ow s
►EMBROCATION
Ml « ai
K M>* 1
/•V £ v e PYWH r b£ / \
m
d
FURNITURE.
rg
W. Walker, Sons, & Bartholomew, Ltd.,
357 George Street, Sydney,
And Bunliill Row, London.
PIONEER
LEATHER
B E L.TB N C
PIONEER
LEATHER
B £ LT'i NG
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World's Fair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE SI REET, SYDNEY.
The T Boot Coy.
Largest and Best Shoe Store in Australia.
IMMENSE VARIETY TO SELECT EROM.
Prices Below every Competitor.
BOOT COMPANY
386 George-st., Sydney.
Cheque pank pmited, [ondon.
ESTABLISHED 1873.
Travellers’ Drafts.
Circular Notes.
Money Orders.
GASHED by upwards of 20,000 Banks all over the World,
and by over 2200 Banks in Great Britain.
AGENCIES THROUGHOUT
Europe, Asia, Africa, U.S. of America, Central and South
America, Australasia, Pacific Islands, West Indies, Spanish
and Portuguese possessions, and all parts of the civilised
world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
Sydney Agency:
66 PITT STREET
Makoln?,
(near Bridge Street).
GENERAL AGENT.
Ask for Gilbey’s
Silverstream Schnapps.
Tucker & Co., Agents, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 17.—N0. 8510
[Saturday, June 6, 1896.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HOMOCEA
CURES
PAIN
Why? Ittouchesthe spot
r
a
'A
o'
USE FOR
Muscular
Rheumatism
Stiffness of the joints, pains in the
back and chest, sprains and bruises.
All are immediately relieved by
using
HOMOCEA.
It is easy to apply, soothing in
effect, and, produces a permanent
cure. Sold by all Chemists. Sole Proprietors;
THE HOMOCEA COMPANY ETI»„ JKIRKEXHEAD,
LITERARY NOTES.
Louis Becke’s new book, “A First Fleet
Family,” in which he collaborated with
Walter Jeffery, of Sydney Evening News,
should reach Australia this week, and is
being published simultaneously in Europe
and America.
* * * *
The jealous U.S. copyright-law requires
that a book must be locally printed and
issued before, or at the same time as, the
first edition is published elsewhere ; so tha
there can be no convenient transfer of copie
or stereo-plates. Ward, Lock, and Bowdei
incurred the fresh expenditure for “ Sevei
Little Australians,” but so far the book ha
failed to catch on with Uncle Sam’s sma]
people. As some amends, it has been trans
lated into Danish and Dutch.
* * * *
The title of Ethel Turner’s book of shor;
yarns, to reach Australia next month, ha
been changed to “The Little Duchess anc
Other Stories.” “The Little Duchess” i
the heartless young lady who married—
wasn’t it the shopwalker I —in The Bulletin
a while back. Mrs. Curlewis has lately be
come a leading contributor to The Windsor
and that magazine’s July number will con
tain one of her stories; another by “Ada
Cambridge ” (of Melbourne) ; and a third by
Guy Bootliby (whose recent “ Beautiful
White Devil,” by the way, is shocking stuff
in the way of literature, however it may suit
the public that buys).
* * * *
Cassell and Co. paid 8| per cent, for *95.
* * # *
The Bookman prints a portrait of Alice
xMeynell, author of some clever verse and o:’
' ‘ The Rhythm 1 of Life a book of in-
genious essays. She looks painfully thin
and a low-cut dress shows a sad pair of salt-
cellars. The literary woman, if typically
feminine, takes a big risk when she starves
her body of blood to feed her brain. Only
a,typical women like George Eliot or Harriet
Martineau—practically males, with no debt
of motherhood to pay—can safely dedv the
sex’s physiological law.
* * * *
Publisher : “ You may send a book—a good
book—to one ‘ leading ’ (so it alleges) Aus-
tralian newspaper, and wait vainly for
comment in its literary column. Then you
may send to enquire ??.??? 4 Oh, yes,’ says
the editor, ‘we got that book—a dashed fine
book, too ; but you didn’t send any adver-
tisement. Of course, you know you’ll have
to send along an advertisement. We won’t
ask for a big one—say half-a-sov., and we’ll
give you a real good notice. Ta-ta ! Don’t
forget the ad.’ ”
* * * *
Olive Schreiner is moved to publish in the
Fortnightly a series of articles on the Boers
and South Africa written years ago. “ The
Story of an African Farm” has nearly reached
its 100th thousand. Its vitality is remark-
able. Though 10-years-old, it is asked for
every day at the booksellers’.
* * * *
When Agent-General Reeves left Maori-
land he thought he had given his country
at least one good thing in a School Reader
edited and printed in the province. The
Women’s Christian Temperance Unions have
told his successor at the Education bureau
“that to put the book in its present form
into the hands of the young will not tend to
their advancement intellectually or morally.
The language in which much of the book is
written is slangy and vulgar, and could not
fail to corrupt the purity of the English
tongue throughout the community. The
sentiments expressed in not a few of its
pages are such as, to lead to cruelty of dis-
position and indifference to the sufferings of
others.” This will shock Mr. Reeves.
* * * *
Nuggets from Nordau :
A man cannot beget both thoughts and children.
Originality is the first night of commonness.
There are very few Josephs outside the Bible,
and a Mrs. Potiphar is a phenomenon.
Gallantry is an invention of prosperity and
leisure.
* * * *
To Correspondents.—W. Gay : Thanks ;
but the discussion grows too personal for
print. One regretted injustice was done
you : the ad mis. plea does not meander
through that sheet of advertising opinions....
Stud. : “ Jubilee ” is spelt “ jubile ” in most
Bibles (Lev., xxv, 8-17), but “jubile” isn’t
necessarily correcter. The dies, give it from
Lat. jubilaeus, from Heb. yobel, the blast of
a trumpet Zeta : “ Daantjie kom hier te
orig,” alleged Boer for “Duncan Gray cam’
here to woo,” does look rough ; but the
“roughness” is in your own eye. How do
you think the original looks to the Boer ?
And just take a common English word—say,
“ kitchen ” —detach your mind from its mean-
ing, and see what an uncouth set of conso-
nants it is.
Publications Received:—“The Young
Ladies’ Journal ” —Gordon and Goteh [the
sway of fashion and sentimental romance over
the old Eve seems undiminished ] ; “ The Aus-
tralian Ballroom Guide,” by Mrs. Chas.
Reid—Geo. Robertson [a good little manual ] ;
“The N.S.W. Public School Arithmetic for
Fourth Class,” by Samuel Morrison—Geo.
Robertson [quite as good as anything of the
class imported] ; “ Lafsu Beg, the Camel-
Driver,” by Dr. David Gunn—Geo. Robert-
son [a display of industry and hnowledge of
Hiudostau nnlightened by imagination].
A Vivisectionist Romance.
i Apparently H. G. Wells has definitely
chosen his literary niche, and it is neither
very large nor very lofty. “The Island of
I>r. Moreau 1 is his fourth book : two longer
stories—“ The Time Machine” and “The
\\ onderful Visit ’ —and a book of short ones
—“ The Stolen Bacillus ” —preceded it. All
have the same qualities in varying propor-
tions—a scientific basis, singularly fresh and
vivid imagination, considerable literai’y dex-
terity,. and a delicate satirical vein. But they
want strength, depth, fundamental brain-
power. It is the age’s lack. We are prat-
tlers, not speakers.
Too fast we live, too much are tried,
Too harass’d, to attain
Wordsworth’s sweet calm, or Goethe’s wide
And luminous view to gain.
And Mr. Wells is invalid into the bargain.
Is it possible to create anything permanent
in literature unless one is prepared to squan-
der upon it a rich treasure of vitality ?
“ The Island of Dr. Moreau ” easily out-
does “Frankenstein,” though that is saying
little. It is singular how weakly Mary
Shelley’s romance reads for a work whose
title every member of Parliament is at liberty
to misapply. The conception is strong, but
the execution falls far short of the require-
ments of a generation which sorrowfully puts
its foot in Addison’s style-holes. Without
doubt century-beginning critics were easily
pleased in the matter of fiction. What
notice would “Waverley” win from an
average modern reviewer? “A rather
wearisome romance disfigured by numerous
pedantic asides, and rarely brightened by
graphic touches of character. A plodding
style heightens the reader’s tedium.” Would
not that be something like it ? And how r
would the average modern reader view
another slow-moving Scott in comparison
with the sturdy Doyle or the brisk, stirring
Weyman ?
* * * *
“ The Island of Dr. Moreau ” is the labora-
tory of another Frankenstein, with the dif-
erence that this Frankenstein doesn’t pestle
flesh and hair in a vague, unexplained way ;
but proceeds quite scientifically to vivisect,
and graft, and cultivate, until he has pro-
duced a population of semi-human mon-
strosities. “ Strange as it may seem to the
unscientific reader,” says the author, “ there
can be no denying that, whatever amount of
credibility attaches to the detail of this story,
the manufacture of monsters—and perhaps
even of quasi- human monsters—is within
the possibilities of vivisection.” And the eerie
theme is decidedly well handled. The veri-
similitude, with the consequent repulsion,
are better managed than in “Dr. Jekyll ” or
“Great God Pan,” Wells’s method being
more the detail-method practised by Defoe
in the “Journal of the Plague Year,” or Poe
in “ The Case of M. Valdemar.” The book
is undoubtedly clever, and creepy, and a fine
imaginative feat.
* * * •
Edward Prendick, more or-less naturalist,
finds himself a passenger in a vessel coming
from Arica (South America) with a puma,
a llama, some rabbits and staghounds, a man
called Montgomery, and a nondescript M’ling
with pointed ears tipped with fine black fur
at the edges. Willy-nilly, the drunken cap-
tain sets him ashore with this ocean men-
agerie at the island of Dr. Moreau—a massive,
white-haired man with “the squarest and
most resolute face. ” Driven from England
by the “insular prejudice” against vivisec-
tion, Dr. Moreau has found a little place
where he can experiment without let or
hindrance. Montgomery is his assistant, the
puma and staghounds his material, M’ling a
sample of his workmanship—a beast made
man. Gradually Prendick realises this. The
puma is fettered at once to the enthusiast’s
operating-bench, and yells with pain.
Prendick’s nerves give way, and he rushes
from Moreau’s stockaded enclosure. He is
introduced by an Ape-Man to the home of
the Beast People, where he learns their Law
—a set of conventions implanted in them by
Moreau.
And then began the insanest oeremony. The
voice in the dark began intoning a mad litany,
line by line, and I and the rest to repeat it. As
they did so, they swayed from side to side, and
beat their hands upon their knees, and I followed
their example. I could have imagined I was
already dead and in another world. The dark
hub, these grotesque dim figures, just flecked here
and there by a glimmer of light, and all of them
swaying in unison and chanting :
“Not to go on all-fours ; that is the Law. Are
we nob Men ? ”
“Not to suck up drink ; that is the Law. Are
we not Men ? ”
“Not to eat flesh or fish ; that is the Law. Are
we not Men ?”
“ Not to claw the bark of trees ; that is the Law.
Are we not Men ? ”
“Wot to chase other men; that is the Law. Are
we not Men ? ”
And so from the prohibition of these acts of folly,
on to prohibition of what I thought then were the
maddest, most impossible, and most indecent
things one could well imagine. A kind of
rhythmic fervor fell on all of us ; we gabbled and"
swayed faster and faster, repeating this amazing
law. Superficially the contagion of these brute
men was upon me, but deep down within me
laughter and disgust struggled together. We
ran through a long list of prohibitions, and then
the chant swung round to a new formula :
“ His is the House of Pain,
His is the Hand that makes,
His is the Hand that wounds,
His is the Hand that heals.”
And so on for another long series, mostly quite in-
comprehensible gibberish to me, about Him, who-
ever he might be. I could have fancied it was a
dream, but never before have I heard chanting in
a dream.
* » » *
Suddenly Moreau appears. Prendick
takes to his heels and runs to the sea, still
under the impression that these weird crea-
tures are men, like himself, whom Moreau
has brutalised—not brutes whom he has
humanised. He is sought and soothed,
and Hr. Moreau explains.
These creatures you have seen are animals carven
and wrought into new shapes. To that —to th
study of the plasticity of living forms—my lif
has been devoted. I have studied for years, gain
ing in knowledge as I go. I see you look horrified
and yet I am telling you nothing new. It al
lay in the surface of practical anatomy years ago
but no one had the temerity to touch it. It’s no
simply the outward form of an animal I can
change. . . . It is a possible thing to
transplant tissue from one part of an animal to
another, or from one animal to another, to alter
its chemical reactions and methods of growth, to
modify the articulations of its limbs, and indeec
to change it in its most intimate structure?
“But,” said I, “these things—these animals
talk ! ”
He said that was so, and proceeded to point oul
that the possibilities of vivisection do not stop al
a mere physical metamorphosis. A pig may be
educated. The mental structure is even less
determinate than the" bodily. In our growing
science of hypnotism we find the promise of a
possibility of replacing old inherent instincts by
new suggestions, grafting upon or replacing the
inherited fixed ideas. Very much, indeed, of
what we call moral education is such an artificial
modification and perversion of instinct; pugnacity
is trained into courageous self-sacrifice, and sup-
pressed sexuality into religious emotion.
* * * *
And in this company Prendick passes
many weeks. But by degrees the brutal
instincts of the Beast-People resume their
sway. At last there is a rebellion, which is
overcome ; but the puma wrenches its fetters
out of the wall of the operating-room and
escapes. Moreau pursues it and kills it, blkt
himself is killed in the struggle. Mont-
gomery is also beaten to death. Prendick at
last escapes in a derelict boat, and is picked
up by a passing vessel. Then he gives what
may be called the moral of the book in a
passage which makes one turn back to see if
the whole is not an allegory whose satire is
well hidden. For he says his return to
civilisation was accompanied by something
like mental disease :
My trouble took the strangest form. I could
not persuade myself that the men and women I
met were not also another, still passably human,
Beast-People, animals half-wrought into the out-
ward image of human souls, and that they would
not presently begin to revert, to show first this
bestial mark and then that. . .
When I lived in London the horror was well-
nigh insupportable. I could not get away from
men ; their voices came through windows; locked
doors were flimsy safeguards. I would go out
into the streets to fight with my delusion, and
prowling women would mew after me ; furtive,
craving men glance jealously at me; weary, pale
workers go coughing by me| with tired eyes and
eager pace, like wounded deer dripping blood ;
old people, bent and dull, pass murmuring to them-
selves, and all unheeding a ragged tail of gibing
children. Then I would turn aside into some
chapel, and even there, such was my disturbance,
it seemed that the preacher gibbered Big Thinks
even as the Ape Man had done ; or into some
library, and there the intent faces over the books
seemed but patient creatures waiting for prey.
The Devil’s Case.
Ishmaelite Robert Buchanan’s new poem,
“ The Devil’s Case,” has caused some London
stir. The Freethinker gives extracts from
the work. Mr. Buchanan says at the outset:
Please remember, Gentle Reader,
Not to judge me line by line ;
Tbo’ I try to state it clearly,
Tis the Devil’s Case, not mine !
Mr. Buchanan’s Devil is a benevolent philan-
thropist, profoundly sympathetic with human
suffering, whom the poet, when in distress
and with youth’s illusions gone, meets on
Hampstead Heath on the night after a Bank
Holiday. The Devil is in clerical attire and
reads the pink edition of the Star in the
moonlight. The “Devil’s Case” is the re-
sult of the interview. The Devil calls
attention to all the sufferings, disasters and
horrors in the paper, and professes himself
to be anxious for their alleviation :
If there is a God, He blundered ;
Man is here to set Him right.
Mr. Buchanan deems himself an efficient
interviewer, and even Devil’s advocate, since
he holds something in common with Nickie
Ben :
J, tlie Interviewer hated
Cordially by cliques and critics;
Hailed at in a hundred journals
As a Scotchman lost and lorn ;
He the Interviewed, for ages
Outlaw’d hy the cliques of Heaven,
\V no for over and for ever
801 l the Log and praise the Lord 1
* * t
fetill we keep as our possession
One thing even the angels envy—
lower to stand erect, while cravens
801 l the Log and bend the knee;
Power to feel and strength to suffer,
Will to fight for Heaven only,
Zeal to speak the truth within us
While the slaves of Heaven are dumb.
Naturally, the Devil appoints Mr. Buchanan
his Laureate, to justify his ways to mortals
ihe Devil has some grit in him. He shows
the poet all the kingdoms and the religious
Jfaders of the past, and professes to have
been the inspirer of all that has tended to
the welfare of humanity. This gives a gooc
opportunity for comment upon the faiths o
Greece, of Buddha, Zoroaster, Mahomet
etc., and to show the triumphs of intelligence
and democracy ascribed to the Devil. The
hero says :
I’m the father of all Science-
Master builder, stock improver,
First authority on drainage,
Most renowned in all the arts.
While the Priests have built their Churohe.
lo a God who does not heed them,
I have fashion’d decent dwellings
Public hospitals, and baths.
“ Take no heed about to-morrow ”
Said the Man-God ; “do not labor,
Be content with endless praying,
And eternal laissez-faire.” '
But the Devil, being wiser,
Knows that he who fails to reckon
With the morrow will discover
That To -morrow is To-day!
One wonders, if this is Mr. Buchanan’s
Devil, what sort of Deity he possesses. We
seem to get a glimpse in the fine Litany
which serves as epilogue to the volume, from
which one extract :
Thou hast set these Rulers above us, to bind us
to blind our eyes ;
dhou hast sent these Priests to lure us with creeds
and dogmas and lies ;
Thou hast built Thy Church on the sands still
shifting and tremulous.
From Churches and Priests and Liars, good Lord
deliver us.
The volume is full of vigorous heresy. The
poet sometimes puts in a feeble word for
orthodoxy, but the answer is usually crush-
ing. Thus, to the argument that Evolution
is working out the will of the Almighty
Father, conies the reply :
Say, can any latter blessing
Cleanse the blood-stained Book of Being?
Can a remnant rendered happy
Wipe out centuries of sorrow ?
The Devil’s advice is, therefore :
“ Waste not thought on the Almighty ;
Seek with all thy soul’s endeavour
How to make thine earthly dwelling
Bright and fair, in God’s despite.”
Mr. Buchanan may disclaim the Devil’s
teaching, but the Devil has a good deal of
reason on his side. The review of the past
gives Mr. Buchanan as fine opportunities as
the subject of the “Wandering Jew.” At
times he takes advantage of them. Take,
for instance, this on Voltaire:—
Diabolically smiling,
Up to Prince and Priest he strutted,
Tapped his snuff-box, and politely
Cracked his jokes at the Madonna !
Naught of holy reputation
’Scaped the ribald rascal’s laughter ;
Far away as Rome the Churches
Echoed with his jests profane.
Then, behold, a transformation !
Suddenly he rose, transfigured ;
Periwig and snuff-box vanished,
And an Angel stood revealed.
In his hand my sword of Freedom
Flashing on the eyes of Europe—
While the hounds of persecution
Paused, and Calas kissed his feet!


Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. VV. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven yeaiß, during which peri'd I was
scarcely ever free from consflis, and frequently the diffi-
culty of hreathinsf was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I wiite you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my ease every other
treatment had failed. For a year pievious I tiad been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to lied suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating bleed and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as lam now, quite well.— Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, S\ dnev.”
“ My s in, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The in ise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices weie used and
plasters were applied to the hack and clust without
success.
“ I bought a large-size bot.lle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my hoy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Taimvorth, N.S.W.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prov" its distinct healing power.”- Sign!d
by Ilev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-streef, Geelong, and
59 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
M A N II O O D.
HEALTH , STRUNG 17/ AND F/GOR RESTORE I
In Four Weeks by the use of
dr
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and, debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 265. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Austr alasia —Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBO URNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION:
Hygien’j, Infallible and Preservative.
UUKES I’KfIMI’TLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
FREE NEW FRJEE
Enclose 2d. stamp to Professor
Lupinsky, 29 Rothschild’s Chambers,
Melbourne, for directions and recipe
for the
VIENNA TREATMENT
for Nervous Diseases and Wtakened
Vitality.
ARE YOU SUPPERING
From weakness of the Nervous System, loss of Noble
Manhood through early errors or excesses? If so, write
to me and I will send you an absolute cure. Address,
Private, P. 0., Box 347, Sydney.
MEDICINE "SITmiE
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £1 ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 399, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. SPEED,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Box 920. Registered and Qualified in N.S. W.
T- [ AVING devoted 24 years to the research and study
7,7°* V’ e SPECIAL CHRONIC NERVOUS and SKIN
AfcrEGriONS of Men and Women, is now prepared to
treat sufferers from the above troubles with an absolute
certainty of success or forfeit £2OO in all guaranteed
cases. His success has been so extraordinary, both with
male and female, that it has induced many miserable and
unqualified imitators to attempt to follow his tracks, but
the publio are hereby warned that his golden remedies
can he obtained only at the above address. Consultation
Free. Correspondence invited.
Female Fills, certainties, ss, 10s, and £1
(extra strong).
29 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Speer’s invaluable Female Remedies are
always Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
29 York Sydney.
BOX 920.
474
Will Cure
WHEN
Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Belts to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, how-
ever poor, need he with-
out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address-
Dr. Lamont Electric Belt Co M
82 King Stkeet, SYDNEY.
NT o Cure, NT o 3P a, y.
Ul'
mm.
< > i:=
w
7 >/
rpHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
J- cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt {fives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list fpost free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers' 63 Elizabeth Street SYDNEY.
Trilby Liver Pills.
MAKE life a pleasure and existence a joy. They are a
certain and speedy cure for all Bilious and Nervous
Disorders, such as Sick Headache, Constipation, Red Nose,
Wind, Tired Feeling, Weak Stomach, Indigestion, Female
Ailments, Toothache, Melancholy, Kidney Disorders, etc.
Good for both sexes—Children and Adults. Box posted,
2s. 6d. Sold only by Monsieur HAUTMONT,
R.M.D., Victoria-street, NORTH MELBOURNE.
uk
PRESCRIPTIONS
Are to be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE ” for the Speedy Cure of Nerv-
ousness, Debility, Lost Manhood, and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book
will be sent Free, sealed for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S- WARD AND 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IT MAY BE SELDOM
That Medical Advertisements can be relied on, but we here assert the following facts, which can be
borne out from Testimonials in our possession. Thousands may see this, and treat it as some
announcements dtserve, but in this they would make a great mistake,
AND FOR THIS REASON :
by taking notice of what we have already done and can do, as proved by thousands of grateful
acknowledgments of our skill which we hold, it may Save Your Life and that of your dear ones.
TTa,a any Person Living
■f
m
CURED 344 cases of ERYSIPELAS,
each case in 24 hours, and Never
Failed in One Case ? We have. Or
HYDATIDS for 15 years, and Never
Failed; or BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
which is supposed to be incurable ;
or RINGWORM in Half a Mindte ;
or ever actually cured the LIVER
and KIDNEYS in their Worst States
of Disease; or MARASMUS in Chil-
dren after All Hopes had been Given
Up by all the best medical men ; or
YELLOW JAUNDICE when life was
despaired of ; or ECZEMA a) ter 35
years' suffering-, or ASTHMA alter
25 years’ standing ; or DEBILITY at
58 years or any age? We answer—
WE HAVE CURED ALL
DISEASES,
and we repeat again, WE HAVE;
and can also CURE Scurvy, Bad
Legs, Piles, Diphtheria, and remove
WORMS of all Sorts (Tape, Ring, and
Thread). We cure at once Itch,
Barbers’ Itch, Coughs, Colds, Bron-
chitis, Catarrh in the Head, Blight
and other Diseases of the Eyes,
Varicose Veins, Deafness, and any
other diseases,
WHEN ALL OTHER TREAT-
MENT FAILS.
We say again WE HAVE, and having
established a Branch of our Melb.
House in Sydney, we ask the people
of N.S.W. to TRY US and See for
Themselves the Wonderful Remedies
WE HAVE.
505 i GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, & 188 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp’eted his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting /looms
Will be Pleased to Welcome liis Friends
and Patients at
137 SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBON S,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS Sc SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, <V,c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred —
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD l MTU LINE.
TO ALL
West 8c South Australian,
v ictorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Lour.", Saturday, June 6, Noon.
Feretfriue, Saturday, June 13, Noorv
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Leutp, Saturday, June 6, Noon.
ALBANY
FREMANILE
GEKALUTON
Leuia, Saturday, June 6, Noon.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Satin day, June 6, 2 p.m.
[’arialiool, Tuesday, June 9, 5 p.m.
MACKAY I
TOWNisVILLE f
Tyrian, Saturday, June 6, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 13, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CL Kit ENT FAKES TO ALL I’O KTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
W Iff. HOWAED SMITH Sc SONS, Ltd.
Offices—67 York street, between King & Barrack streets.
Wharves —Boot of King-street, Sidney.
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO. ,r “'
Express Passenger Service to and from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, QUEENS-
LAND, and WEST AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Best and Clieaijest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO. LTD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
IV iNGLAND VIA AMERICA
A by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
Tbe steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
MARIPOSA
MONOWAI
ALAMEDA
3158 [June 8 June 13 July 2
3433 July 6 July 11 July 30
3158 lAugust 3 August 8 August 27
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land
SALOON ±166 to £67 10s.
Combination Ticket, £3l 19s. 7d. to .£5B 14s. 2d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G. P. 0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; Hurrold Bros., Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N.
Co., Brisbane.
Medical.
Dr German Charles,
The well-known Specialist in
TUMORS, CANCERS, ABSCESS, NER-
VOUS and SKIN DISEASES,
late of Riverstone and Lady Robinson’s Beach,
Has RESUMED PRACTICE
at 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, REDFERN.
Hours:
9 a.m. till 1 p.m., 6 till 9 p.m. Sundays, 10 to 12 a.m. only.
ADVICE and MEDICINE, 2s. 6d.
The Doctor will visit any part of the country, and all
letters will be attended to, and Medicine forwarded to any
part of the colony. All Ladies’Complaints are treatid
(Electrical and Medicinal) with the greatest success.
Addiess all communications—
Dr. GERMAN CHARLES,
71 Castlereagh Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
GOOD NEWS !
29 YORK STREET,
Wynyard Square, SYDNEY.
LADIES and GENTLEMEN,
In view of the present depression, I have decided
to Reduce all Fees to Half-Price. This will
afford an opportunity for those of slender means
to avail themselves of my services as a Specialist.
I am the Highest Legally Qualified Specialist
in Australasia, and am therefore prepared to
treat every case which I undertake with confidence
and success, and, if necessary, to give a Stamped
Guarantee to that effect or forfeit =£2CO. My
treatment of
NERVOUSNESS and DEBILITY
has been most successful in all parts of the world,
and I have restored thousands of helpless, miser-
able mortals to renewed manhood and vigor. The
enormous number of testimonials that I have bear
witness to the splendid cures which I have effected
in the treatment of the special and private diseases
of men and women. Anyone applying to me will
receive my honest opinion free of all charges, and
I will send my new pamphlet post free.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
T. COLE-WRIGHT,
M.D., M.Ch., L.M., etc.
gg- p.S.—Dr. Cole - Wright’s celebrated
FEMALE TABLET for IRREGULARITIES,
safe and certain, 10s. and <£l per box (extra
strong). This, perhaps, is the most valuable
boon ever offered to the ladies of Australia.
Hr. COLE- WEIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Gbstiuction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
Box 979 G.P.0., Sydney.
r I TALES of" the convict system.
X Price, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.


PPorthington Pumping Engine Company ,
In
tii
WORTHINGTON TRIPLE EXPANSION SURFACE
CONDENSING PUMPING ENGINE.
(HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE)
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence St.,
gd
SYDNEY.
TRADE MARK*
Victorian Agency—Siurt-street, South Melbourne.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
IRRIGATION
SINKING
MINING
CREAMERIES
SUITABLE FOE
GARDEN SUPPLIES
WOOL SCOURING
WOOL DUMPING
WATER SUPPLIES
SEWERAGE
MARINE
TANK PILLING
BOILER FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
Medical.
NOSIOd QOOT
A SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
or Tertiary BLOOD POISON per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You can
be treated at home for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
here we will contract to pay railroad and
steamship fare and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge, if we fail to cure. If you have taken
mercury, iodide potash, and still have aches
and pains, Mucous Patches in the mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots, Ul-
cers on any part of the body, Hair or Eyebrows
falling out, it is this Secondary BLOOD POI-
SON we guarantee to cure. We solicit the most
obstinate cases and challenge the world for
a case we cannot cure. Physicians cannot
cure you. $>500,000 capital behind our uncondi
tional guaranty. Absolute proofs sent sealed on
application. Address COOK BEMEDT CO„
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A.
MANHOOD RESTORED !
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the ease may be.
This truly wonderful medioine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
P. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1873.]
American Remedy Depot,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Men Women
Should write to us for full particulars of our American
Specific Remedies. Don’t delay. Write at once. It
may save you hundreds of pounds. Address—
AMERICAN REMEDY DEPOT,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
“A Golden Shanty.”
f
UtOOK OF NATURE
—AND —
Illustrated Marriage Guide.
A FULL EXPLANATION of the ORGANS OF LIFE
and GENERATION IN MANKIND,
Intended for the married, or those intending to marry, and who
desire to inform themselves upon the Intent and Nature of Conjugal
Duties, to which is added a
COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE
I'pon all Diseases of the Generative Organs, whether resulting from
I fection or Abuse, illustrated with more than FIFTY ENGRAV-
INGS, by Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D. Price, 36; post, 4/-
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Decameron, illustrated, Ss.
Rush for the Spoil, Nana, Human Brutes, genuine
editions, by Zola, Is 6d ; post, 2s. Send for new list.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d ;
send for pamphlet giving full contents gratis.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
6d ; post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Rose Foster, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
The Soiled Dove, post free, Is 6d.
Skittles : Her Adventures, post free, Is 6d.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It. Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric
Entertainments, &c., post free Is 6d.
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics, without a master,
post free Is.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free..
Wonderful Song Book, extra large, Is 6d post free.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One s Self, Illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette—Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress
Visiting, Introductions, Weddings, &c., Is 6d post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free, Is 3d. > » r
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse,
n health and disease, from infancy to old age, with
the treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s
private use, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D. ; engravings and
oolored plates; new revised Australian edition, price
2s 6rl, post-free. ’
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, Radical Remedy in Social
Science, regulating reproduction, latest information
limiting family. Post free, Is 2d.
Practical Palmistry, illustrated guide to character
reading. Post free, Is 6d.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. MUSIC OF ALL KINDS. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Ch.eap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Business Announcements.
MEMORY CULTURE.
I'rof. Loiscttc’s System of Assimilative
Memory.
A SYSTEM tiy which tlie memory can be trained In re-
produce Facts, Quotations, Poetry, and all the D ily
Occurrences of Life with certainly. Renders success iii
examination sure. Oral lectures now being givui in
Sydney. Can be learnt also by correspondence. Founded
on sound scientific principles. Apply Prof. A. LOISETTE
K-v 1034 0.P.0.. SYDNEY. ’
Medical.
No Doctors
necessary.
Nearly twenty years
Warner’s Safe Cure has
been before the pubic, and no other remedy
has such a remarkable record of cures from
diseases of the two most important vital
organs of the body, the KIDNEYS and the
LIVER. Its principle is herbal. It is safe
to use at all periods of life, and IT CURES
where doctors have signally failed.
H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
Self-Treatment
made easy.
A course of treatment
with Warner’s Safe Cure
for Rheumatism; or for biliousness, and its
prevailing symptoms, indigestion, flatulency,
distressing pain after eating, sickness, and
giddiness; does not interfere with one’s occu-
pation nor endanger taking cold. Take the
medicine and follow the diet rules on the
bottle. At all Medicine Vendors.
H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
Health Guide
FREE.
Our illustrated book on
self-treatment, and how
to recognise diseases, is posted free. Send for
it at once. Keep it in the house for reference
in emergency. It tells HOW and WHY you
are ill. It tells how you can treat yourself.
KIDNEY disease—that scourge which
baffles the best physicians—is promptly cured
by Warner’s Safe Cure. Thousands say so.
H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
Saves Money
and Life.
Yes; it saves TIME,
MONEY, and LIFE to
know howto promptly treat the first symp-
toms of threatening disease. The pain in
the back ; burning whilst passing water;
aching over the shoulder-blades or of the
limbs; coated tongue; they each mean some-
thing. Send for explanatory free pamphlet.
H. H. Warner&Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
GREENBAUM’S
Cucumber Juice Skin Tonic
Softens, Whitens and Smoothes the Skin.
“Send for Samples Free.”
SOLE AGENT: dVLiLIRIKZS,
Hairdresser and Perfumer,
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A N C E R A N D TUMOURS
A Wondertul and Natural Remedy
—FOR—
Cancers and Tumours.
Pamphlet on the Subject post free on receipt of 4d.
in Stamps. References.
Apply: A. M‘KEE <sc CO.,
City Medical Hall, Adelaide-st., BRISBANE.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘Mandarin’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, which
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards and most tender skins
are unanimous in saying that with:
other Bazors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbenz’s. Made
by A. Arbenz,_Jougne,
v/j;infld
France, and Birmingham. Introducer of the
original and only genuine “ Gem ” air guns. Insist
upon having guns marked “ Arbenz," with trade
mark “A” in Swiss cross for first quality, and B ’
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Of
Principal Importers.
• raarov
D E A F 3NT ESS and Head
Noises relieved by using WILSON’S Common-
sense Ear Drums. New Scientific Invention,
without wire or string—safe, simple, com-
fortable, invisible. Write for pamphlet,
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
D*lMf
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist in all Ner-
vous Diseases, Registered in England and the Colonies
as a Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book. Send
Six Penny Stamps at once. Write your case
freely and confidentially. The charge of
ONE POUND ONLY is made by Dr.
Wallace for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about yetting Married s
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply:—Depression of spirits, bashfulness, in-
ability to look frankly into the eyes of another, head-
ache, hair coming oul, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
SWAGMAN : “ Could yer give us a pipe of tobacco, mate?”
HORSEMAN: “Yes. I can give you some that was made in America. It’s CAMERON’S TWO SEAS—the best
smoke in the world!”
SWAGMAN : “My oath, it’s good. I’ve bin tryin’ to get it for years.”


T ■ O O K 1
BEFORE YOU
f. E A F?
When you go out shopping, consider, think
of the money in your pocket, and take account
of the many stores whose various attractions
are laid before you. There is A, with temp-
tation in the form of a pretty show ; there is
B, whose wiles are innumerable ; and C,
who says that he is the man for your money ;
and so on, throughout a list as long as
George-street, each smiling dealer has some-
thing to say and to offer.
Please Pause!
Hearken not to the song of the syren, sing
she ever so sweetly ; heed not the voice of
the charmer, charm he never so wisely.
Your pocket’s concerned ; and there are
pirates about. As the poet pertinently puts
it: “ There be land-sharks and water-
sharks,” and it is for you to see that your
dealings are with none of these voracious
monsters. Take warning in time, for it will
be no use when the new taxes come round—
and the tax-gatherer won’t take no for an
answer—for you to plead : There would have
been enough and to spare had I been wise
enough to
Buy Everything
AT
ANTHONY HORDERN’S,
ONLY UNIVERSAL I’KOVIOERS.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
’S
m
&
V.
Cure DYSPEPSIA,
Cure BILIOUSNESS,
Cure CONSTIPATION,
Cure SICK HEADACHE,
Are Purely Vegetable,
Are Sugar Coated,
Are Mild but Effective.
Good for the Stomach,
Good for the Liver,
Good for the Bowels.
THERE ARE NO OTHER PILLS
SO COOD AS
AYER’S PILLS.
Highest Awards at the World’s
Great Exoositions.
m
t,
Wt C K kEciilatok
gd
BRANDTS
“ANTI-CANPLE.”
A Kerosene Candle with New Light
Spreader. For Candlesticks and Carriage
Lamps. Entirely supersedes the ordinary
candle. 110 HOURS' LIGHT at a COST
of ONE PENNY. Prices—ls 6d and 2s
6d. Postage 4d per pair extra. Last
for years.
Kerosene Gas Stove and
Cooking Apparatus.
No wick, no Smell, Atmospheric Burner :
one flame does 6 operations same time.
From 31/6. Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lampmakers and Importers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
NATATOHIUM,
400 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE GRANDEST SWIMMING BATHS IN
AUSTRALIA.
Sea Water Swimming Baths and Hot Sea and
Fresh-Water Plunge Baths.
Open on week days for yentlemen from O a.ni.
to it p.rn., and on Sundays till Noon.
PLUNGE BATHS and a Small Swimming
Bath for LADIES DAILY.
NOTE.
During Winter Months, Water will be Warm,
thus making Swimming a Perfect Luxury.
S xvimmin & Taught.
gar A Fresh Supply of Sea-water Daily.
Henry Lawson’s Poems.—Post-free from
Bulletin office, ss. sd. in stamps or postal notes
of any Australasian province.
Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserr.il.
used in its prod notion
Sold Bverywhe
WET WEATHER.
EOOT WEAR.
IF YOU REQUIRE BOOTS FOR YOUR-
SELF, or the WIFE and CHILDREN 1 ,
THAT WILL KEEP THE FEET DRY,
WARM, and COMFORTABLE, and NOT
COST TOO MUCH : BEAR this LITTLE
FACT IN MIND—
JOHN HUNTER’S
WEAR BEST
FIT BEST
COST LEAST
And this IS WORTH KNOWING and
WORTH REMEMBERING.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
«r HEAD BOOT PALACE : CORNER GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
«sr BRISBANE BOOT PALACE : CORNER QUEEN & EDWARD STREETS.
Dr. Keith’s
PRIZE MEDAL
•s™? Baking Powder
Is the Rea»l Thing. TRY IT.
tS3' AND HAVE SOME GENUINE BAKING POWDER FOR A CHANGE.
Gillespies Flaked “Grainea”
Is the Most Perfect PORRIDGE POOD ever Invented.
PERDRIAU & CO.’S
Most Reliable WATERPROOFS
AND
RUBBER BOOTS. —~
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST-FREE.
270 George Street, SYDNBY.
PARKER’S
Australian Hair Preserver.
Those who use it will never
become Bald.
* * *
It entirely removes Dandruff.
* * *
It promotes the Growth of the
Hair.
* * *
Ladies will find it a perfect
boon ; it is not a dye —it
is not sticky or greasy.
One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
.. .. ft
'■ v; T
%
*
This pure and excellent
remedy is now under Vice-
Regal patronage, and is used
by leading ladies of the colony
with most gratifying results.
If not procurable from
receipt of 3/6 in Money
application to
rour Chemist or Storekeeper, SAMPLE BOTTLE will be sent to you on
•rder or Stamps. Testimonials from well-known citizens forwarded on
J. CURTIN, Sole Agent, 84 Market Street, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & Co.,
Engineers <fc General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
fA
S 3
SOLE AGENTS FOR
G. F. Blake Co.’s Direct-Acting Steam Pumps (Single and Duplex)
The Pickering Steam Engine Governor Co.
J. A. Fav & Egan Co.’s Woodworking Machinery and Supplies
Shutte & Co.’s Korting Boiler Feed Injectors and Ejectors
W F. &J. Barnes Co. Foot & Hand-power Machinery for Joiners and Engineers
“Champion” Lubricating Oils. “Champion” Leather and Cotton Belting.
The Tanite Co’s Emery Wheels and Machines
The Ludlow Valve Manufacturing Co.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH
bnS
INGTON
HOTEL
BBW
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
(Under 1 Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken- .
aington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF,
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
JAMES BAILEY, M.P., Managing Director.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE WALLABY TRACK.
Oh, a weird, wild road is the Wallaby Track
That is known to the bushmen only,
Stretching away to the plains out back
And the big scrubs lorn and lonely ;
Dawn till dark they are passing there,
Over the hot sand thronging,
Shouldering burdens of Doubt and Despair,
Passion and Love and Longing.
There are pearls of dew on the Wallaby Track
For the maiden Day’s adorning,
And blush-clouds beating the night-shades back
In the van of the golden morning;
There are glories born of the sinking sun
In the splendid eve’s lap dying,
A glitter of stars lit one by one,
And a rustle of night-wings flying.
There are long bright days on the Wallaby Track,
With a blue vault arching over,
And long, long thoughts that are drifting back
To the waiting wife and lover;
There are horse-bells tinkling down the wind
With a thousand rippling changes,
And the boom of the team-bells intertwined
From the far-off mulga ranges.
There are stars of gold on the Wallaby Track,
And silver the moonbeams glisten ;
The great Bush sings to us, out and back,
And we lie in her arms and listen ; .
Our dull hearts quicken their rhythmic beat,
For a wild swan’s southward flying,
And gather old memories sadly sweet
From a wind-swept pine-bough’s sighing.
There are lone graves left on the Wallaby Track,
And the bush-grass bends above them—
They had no white hands to wave them back,
Perhaps—no hearts to love them !
But none the less will their sleep be sound
For the Hope and the Love denied them ;
They will hear no tramp on the thirsty ground,
Though our path runs close beside them.
N.S.W.
GLENROWAN.
THE DEMOCRAT.
Who will come list to this song of the heart-life of
the Democrat, crying friendship,
Crying for the subjugation of things contrary to
all inherent and unrestrained expression of
liberty ?
Come on then !
We will tread this rough new ground together,
We will make war on all that opposes the humane.
Have you computed the peril—the failure of
leaders, promises, hopes, expectations—any-
thing ?
Come on then !
The prizes are the smiles, hand-grips, rough
touches, and words of approval of a brave
circle of hearts, never failing, eternally being
replaced;
The wage is the work —incessant, incessant work
amid the dumb fear and failing of friends ;
The defeat is nothing, either, yet will we have
our own supreme defiances.
We will acknowledge the worth of Literatures and
Sciences, while they hold us not subservient,
Nor assume to be incognisant of our existence;
nor deny us the right of this rough, uninter-
rupted expression;
We will acknowledge the power of Fame and
Ambition (for we must not deny anything).
Are you agreed ?
Come on then ! We will do our work ;
We will not be concerned about what is called
victory or defeat.
Vic.
J.E.M.
A NATIONAL HYMN.
Hail, North Queensland ! May a blessing
Rest upon thee evermore !
Though thy debts are rather pressing,
And thy creditors galore :
Heed them not. The true salvation
Of a rapid coastal boat
And a mighty hopeful nation
Lies in keeping things afloat.
Sweat and Sorrow,
Bung and Borrow,
Are thy war-cries in the field.
“ May the Devil take to-morrow ! ”
Is the motto on thy shield.
Hail, North Queensland ! Mining duffers
Crown thy famine-stricken hills,
Where the pensive hatter suffers
From his unpaid tucker-bills.
Where the fossicker is toiling
For a bit of low-priced tin,
Just to keep the billy boiling
For himself, his dog, and gin.
Lonely campers
Cook their dampers
Where the crowd their revels held,
When the thunder of the stampers
Through the rocky gorges yelled.
Hail, North Queensland ! Stock-diseases,
Drought and dingoes fill thy plains
From the one-horse coastal leases
Out to where it never rains ;
Where the salted horse is tougher
Than the thickest ’gator-hides,
And the festive cattle-duffer
Takes romantic moonshine rides.
Stock-congested,
Tick-infested,
Dismal, hungry, and so forth.
God made earth and sky and rested ;
Then the Devil made the North !
Hail, North Queensland ! Hail the climate !
Wonderful beyond compare;
It would make the solemn Primate
Of the Church of England swear.
Months of roasting inflammation,
Varied by a mighty burst,
Drowning half the population,
While the balance die of thirst.
Clear and hazy,
Cold and mazy,
Under 32 at night;
And at noon there, drive you crazy—
Just one-twenty Fahrenheit !
Hail ; but, no ; it ought to spell:
H-E-L-L !
Q.
VON KOTZE.


Australian Mutual
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEARI
Directors • -The ITon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; .JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy Chairman ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. ; TilOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; P.. SHORT, Esq.; JOSEPH
ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ANNUAL INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Starling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making; unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,090.
Head Office : 87 3PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
A Good Carver wants a good knife. We think we have
as good a stock of Cutlery as any house
in Sydney, and we want your opinion
about our think. Call on us if you
want anything in this line, or anything
else in Hardware. Have just landed
the new L.E. and C. Bread Knife, which
is a revelation, price 1/3 —the old style
has now got to go. Razors, hollow
ground, from 1/6 upwards.
MXean Bros. Bigg Xatll., 512-14 George-st., Sydney.
Poo’t hookey
with YoCir Health-
It is by far the greatest trea-
sure you possess—or ought to
be. The world would be very
different to you if you lost your
health, however rich you were
otherwise. If you catch cold,
take
Watt’S CaragheeQ
at once.
It is an infallible cure.
ALL CHEMISTS.
—THE-
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
r
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect in
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
which so favorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearing C. B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents- J. K. JifiWI’OKT Ai SONS,
Chisholm Lane, Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
¥f SHUT
I4B&4BB&49OGEORGE STREETTsYDNEY:
TRADE. MARK
Peg
I he
AWTRm
AUSTRAL CLOTHIERS & OUTFITTERS.
SAC SUIT
To Measure,
FROM
gd
KAIAPOI, OAMARU, GEELONG,
SCOTCH, and Lest
N.S.W. TWEEDS, SERG ERETTE,
INDIGO SERGES,
BLACK and BLUE CORKSCREWS.
Boys’ Unrivalled School Suits 4/11
(50 different Patterns)
Boys’ Blue Serge Sailor Suits 4/11
(Trimmed Gold or Black)
The Largest Juvenile Clothing Stock in the
Southern Hemisphere.
BEST QUALITIES AT LOWEST PRICES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST, PATTERNS, TAPE and MEASURE FORM.
All Parcels Carriage Paid by Boat, Rail or Post.
EOAD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulaje.
STE A.M
Cultivating
Machinery.
T-T
m
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, & c ., & 0 .
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
II FAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
WHITELAW & CO.,
155 Swunston-street, Melbourne, BOOT & SHOE
On receipt of remittance forward, carriage paid to any address in Vic oria
any of their specialties in Boots and Shoes, catalogues of which will
be sent on application. Their Hand-made Boots do not creak, a-e
flexible in the sole, have no nails, pegs, or tacks whatever to wound
the foot, they do not require breaking in, being smooth and clean
inside.
MANUFACTURERS,
(other colonies, 1/- extra),
The RATIONAL, a strong, serviceable country boot ... 16/-
~ UNIVERSITY, a town walking and business boot ... 21/
~ HORSE-SKIN, a wide-welt, first class winter boot ... 22/6
~ American-dressed Russia and Ooze Calf Boots ... 21/-
MACHINE-SEWN BOOTS from 10s. 6d.
kf/
m
The London and Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 AND 33 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have NOW OPENED a large shipment of SCOTCH and WEST OF ENGLAND TWEEDS
for AUTUMN and WINTER WEAR. These Goods having been bought previous to the great
rise in price, we can now offer the best value in the colonies
Our Popular Prices!
Suits to Order - 45/- 55/- 63/- etc.
Trousers „ - 12/6 15/- 16/6 etc.
aUL well shrunk and well made. satisfaction guaranteed.
Write for Patterns, Self-Measurement Forms and Tape. All orders delivered free by post.
• - • S. M. BAUM ASHE, Manager.
Business Announcements.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
fg
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute
93 Kins Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of rainless
Doiilislry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFELIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Pr. HACKETT writes: “The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
«ay, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest, to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
S TJJJV Al, A. S. IV ALE S.
—w iJr _Jyi
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. AY. AIKIiN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
*T%/S R. AUBREY DAVIS, Dentist, of 492 George-
street (Royal Arcade), SYDNEY, has spared no
expense in fitting-up his luxurious consulting rooms with
the latest dental appliances. The Operating Chair is a
work of art, in which the patient can be raised, lowered,
or placed in any required position by hydraulic power.
Extraction is performed painlessly without Ether or
Chloroform, by spraying the gum with a new local
anesthetic—“ Chloride of Ethyl.” Artificial teeth of the
best quality are fitted at prices not much more than half
the rates commonly charged a few years ago.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 GEORGE STREET.
S Y O TNT E Y.
Specialties JUST ARRIVED for the XMAS
'Trade.
H. L. Hutchinson ... Manager.
rji h e
LAST OF
SIX
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
City Mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Offices: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Chairman —The Hon. John See , M.P.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £163,478,
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
All Eunds Invested in Australia.
rates lowest, security undoubted.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 17 Years - £125,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Transacts EIRE Insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., £8478— divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making' £82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society.
The Oldest Mutual Eire Office in Australia,
RESERVE & INVESTMENT FUNDS, £117,020.
UNCALLED CAPITAL, £75,000.
PURELY a COLONIAL OFFICE, deriving
its income from New South Wales only, no risks
being taken outside the colonv.
A BONUS of 20 PER CENT, has been paid
annually since 1873, divided between Policy-
holders and Shareholders. The amount thus dis-
tributed totals £118,651.
Claims promptly and liberally settled. FIF-
TEEN DAYS’ GRACE allowed for Renewal
of Policies—a protection afforded by no other
Fire Insurance Company.
Ron. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets, Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Passenger Policies for Travellers In-
suring against Accidents & Shipwreck.
Australian Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide: E. H. Peachey. L. A. Jkssop, Director.
Melbourne: D. Clynb. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
68 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
PixsoQ & Soi )S
During 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN" LEAP
than did all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yaokec Poodle.
A semi-dark plug. No tobacco has gained such vast popularity in so short
a time. During the last two years the increase has reached over 100 per
cent, more than that of the preceding year.
Cooqtieror.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South Wales
PixSoo’S New CooqOeror.
To many smokers an improvement on the old by reason of its aroma
and flavor.
Cbaii)pioi) Aromatic.
Long and Rough Cut, Navy Cut, Blended Stock. Nothing can exceed
in quality these gold leaf goods.
DARK TWISTS —Uncle Sam, Sir Roger, Centennial, Early Bird, etc
DARK PLUG —Dollar, Centennial, etc.
AROM ATlOS—Golden Plum, Twin Star Curls, Cloth of Gold.
CALALOGUE OF PRICES AND SHOW CARDS SENT POST FREE.
Importers of Pipes and Tobacconists’ Wares in Great and Newest Varieties-
AOENTS FOR
CIGARETTES.
Mooopolc RotbScbildS, La RoSioa, Flor d« ViSto Cigars.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 17.—N0. 851.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6, 1896.
Prick, 6n.
THE N.S.W. PUBLIC WORKS SCANDAL.
THE GENERAL PUBLIC (to “Oar Special Reporter”): “Plenty of smell, if not much light.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• R 2,
Half-yearly nan
Quarterly V b o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. „ ...
Cheques, Drajts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. JJ •
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
•Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable. MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lllach and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street & Co., Cornhill.
South Africa.—it. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.—lK. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Westralia and MaorilancL
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is now £l, with Us. 2d.
added for postage. England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Tjfce xhzZZd&7i.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6, 1896.
A Municipal Problem.
In New South Wales, though the present
Municipalities Act has been in force for
many years, local government has made but
little progress. Out of the 306,000 sq. miles
which make up the extent of the province,
only about 2800 sq. miles are under any form
of municipal administration, and the area in-
creases very slowly indeed. No less than
1993 sq. miles of this incorporated area are
situated in the eastern division of the pro-
vince ; west of the mountains municipal
government is almost unknown, and over
this vast space of country almost every drain
and ditch and culvert, every rut and hole and
stump and knob in the roadway, every foot-
path and stray dog and Bathurst burr and
dead goat, are supposed to be under the
direct aegis and personal supervision of the
Government at Sydney. But while N.S.
Wales is thus in one respect very much in
want of a system of local government, in
another direction it is locally-governed alto-
gether too much. Within a circle the cir-
cumference of which is nowhere more than
seven miles from Sydney Post Office there
are no less than 40 municipalities; and
within 20 miles of Sydney there are at
least 46. Most of them are small—some of
them miserably small, and their revenues
range from various sums down to almost
nothing. Also, their debts range from vari-
ous sums up to almost anything. There are
many stages of prospective bankruptcy among
them, and many varieties of incapacity, and,
taking them all round, they are dismally un-
satisfactory, and about the best thing to be
said for them is that their circumstances
might be a little worse—not very much worse
in some cases, yet a little.
* * * *
Within the narrow radius above-mentioned
there are 40 mayors and as many full-
blown corporations. Almost every muni-
cipality has its town-hall—there are nearly
£500,000 worth of assorted town-hall in
Sydney and its immediate surroundings.
This little district is bossed by 396 aldermen,
and, in addition, almost every municipality
has its own council-clerk, inspector of nuis-
ances, valuer, rate-collector, engineer, and
other functionaries. There are 35 separate
municipal debts, all within gunshot range
of Sydney Post Office tower, and 27 different
bank-overdrafts, and for the year ended
February, 1895, there were, out of 38 muni-
cipalities whose accounts were published, 25
deficiencies, five cases where the accounts
were squared by hard borrowing, and eight
surpluses. Almost every municipality has
its own internal feud among the aldermen,
its own special row with the municipality
next door, its own trouble about the night-
cart and where the contents thereof are to
be deposited, and its own separate and indi-
vidual difficulty about making the accounts
look moderately coherent. Each munici-
pality has its own auditors, who include
teachers, auctioneers, shopkeepers, butchers,
and all manner of other people whose ac-
quaintance with accounts is strictly limited.
The public lighting is various : two munici-
palities are lighted with electricity, one with
gas and electricity, 33 with gas, and four are
not lighted at all. One has its own electric-
lighting plant, while another is electric-
lighted by contract. The financial arrange-
ments are also various, the loans bearing
interest at from 4 up to 8 per cent. ; nearly
half the total loans carry over 5 per cent.,
and nearly one-quarter over 6 per cent.
Altogether, things are about as mixed as
they can be in the many towns of Greater
Sydney.
* * * *
The obvious impossibility of having 40
different -water and drainage schemes led,
some years ago, to the establishment of the
Metropolitan Board of Water Supply and
Sewerage, which bosses the city and fifteen
suburbs ; those which lie outside its jurisdic-
tion mostly dispense with any scientific
sewerage system, and leave the dead cat in
the gutter to be removed by the act of God.
This was about the first beginning of any
attempt at consolidation. The Metropolitan
Fire Brigade was also established because it
was found impossible for each municipality
to maintain its own brigade—which, in some
cases, would have absorbed practically the
entire revenue. The latest trouble caused
by the disjointed state of things arises over
the electric-lighting problem. The experi-
ence of many British cities has shown that
municipal lighting can be made both cheaper
and more successful than lighting by private
enterprise. A strong desire is growing up in
Sydney to make electric-lighting a municipal
undertaking ; the N.S. Wales metropolis has
had long experience of the blessings of
private enterprise as typified by the incubus
of the Australian Gas Light Co., and it has
no desire to repeat that awful experiment
and set up a new Old Man of the Sea
in place of the one now existing. But,
as matters stand, whereas a private syndi-
cate might get powers to light all the 40
municipalities of Sydney, no municipality
can get power to do any lighting outside its
own boundaries. Therefore, whereas a
syndicate might do the whole work with one
plant, the municipalities would require 40
separate plants, and as many engineers and
staffs of workmen to cover the same ground.
Therefore, the syndicate has so many advan-
tages that there is serious risk of it getting
a hold at least on the smaller municipalities.
And for this, as well as many other reasons,
The Bulletin submits that the present
policy is a grotesque failure ; and that the
whole municipal system should be consoli-
dated under a County Council, which would
municipally govern all the city and its sur-
roundings from Manly to Burwood, or
possibly to Parramatta, and from George’s
River to Narrabeen or thereabouts.
* * * *
The advantages of such a consolidation are
many and obvious. It would do away with
39 out of the 40 mayors—or, if the boun-
daries of Greater Sydney were extended to
the wide limits suggested above, it would
enable 45 out of 46 mayors to be dispensed
with. It would also enable about 300 out
of the 396 aldermen to be left out, and any
one who has seriously considered 396 aider-
men will understand the advantages im-
plied by such a change. To make a
thoroughly capable alderman many qualifi-
cations are required, and the impossibility of
finding in a limited population 396 available
men who possess them has been sufficiently
demonstrated. There is no honour attached
to the billet in a small outlying municipality ;
there is no money except it be come by dis-
honestly ; the business consists mainly in a
constant wrangle about the night-cart and
like subjects, and the whole affair is mean
and commonplace and unsatisfactory. A
County Council which controlled the whole
metropolitan area would, on the other hand,
be a powerful institution with some sem-
blance of dignity about it. It would secure
better men, partly by reason of the fact that
50 or 100 capable men are easier to find than
396, partly because it would offer a sphere
of operations large enough to attract able
administrators, which the present retail dust-
cart business does not. The great majority
of men only serve their country for money or
for distinction, and neither is to be obtained
in the small halfpenny politics of the outside
municipality. The County Council of Sydney
would at least offer a certain amount of dis-
tinction—not of the very highest class, per-
haps, yet distinction none the less.
* * * *
Further, it could not fail, even under very
second-rate management, to be vastly more
economical than the state of things now pre-
vailing. Its securities would be almost, if not
quite, as good as those of the N.S.W.
Government, and it could easily raise money
locally at 3i per cent., or possibly even less,
whereas the present average is about 5 per
Cent. On this single item it eould make a
saving of £30,000 a year merely by renewing
and consolidating the present disastrous
loans as they fall in. Out of the £34,000 a
year which goes in salaries to 40 different
sets of officials, it could save, probably*
£lO,OOO by the mere centralisation of the
work. Instead of the 26 separate bank
overdrafts, most of them bearing interest at
7 and 8 per cent., it could obtain temporary
accommodation, if necessary, on the same
terms as an embarrassed Treasurer by the
issue of 4 per cent, bills. It might possibly
succeed in finding a financial genius to con-
trol the city treasury, whereas the impossi-
bility of finding 40 separate financial geniuses
is too obvious to require explanation. It
should be able to establish a clean and
moderately sane system of dealing with the
city refuse on the dessication principle, which
would be cheaper than the many disjointed
expedients now prevailing, whereas no such
thing seems possible under existing condi-
tions because the muicipalities won’t combine
to do the work, and it is impossible for each
one to pay for its own dessicator, and, in
any case, the presence of 40 dessicators in
one city would be a circumstance too awful
for expression. Further, the establishment
of a County Council is the only visible means
whereby a complete system of municipal
lighting can be arrived at. Under present
conditions it would require 40 separate
systems to light the metropolitan district,
and the spectacle of 40 mayors and 396
alderman trying to introduce 40 systems on a
7 per cent, overdraft is beyond description.
* * * *
Sydney, taking it in its widest sense, is a
huge, misshapen, ramshackle, prematurely-
old city of no particular shape or pattern,
laid out nohow in particular, with narrow,
crooked streets, and a general air of
disreputableness. It might be vastly
improved and practically reconstructed
as Birmingham was under the Chamber-
lain regime, and as Paris was in the
Haussmann era, and as old Glasgow is being
reconstructed now by the City Improvement
Trust—if there was any authority strong
enough to attempt the work. But repre-
sentative bodies in general move slowly, and
40 of them can hardly be said to move at all,
and out of the deliberations of 396 aldermen
no connected results can be expected. This
is another respect in which consolidation
might do much good. And the County
Council, in addition to absorbing the multi-
tudinous councils and aldermen and mayors,
might also—by dividing itself into depart-
ments and sub-committees—do the work of
the Water and Sewerage Board, the Fire
Brigades Board, the Transit Commissioners,
and the City Improvement Board—which
practically burst-up in 1895, after an exist-
ence of 16 years, and now survives only in
name, and thereby make these institutions
more economical and more easily manage-
able than they now are. Also, by the same
process of consolidation there would be only
one municipal body to grovel to the incoming
Governor and read him an address, whereas
now the grovels and the addresses are legion ;
and the periodical free fight in the Council
Chamber would at least be less frequent, in-
asmuch as there would be 39, or perhaps 45,
less Councils for fighting purposes ; and a
lot of dreary “ municipal intelligence ” would
vanish out of the papers ; and many other
desirable things would happen which need
not be herein specified.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Fall of Bent.
The South Melbourne election is an event that
will require a lot of hard explanation in many
quarters. The Trades Hall, which the “res-
pectable ” organs have so long represented as
broken-down and discredited and powerless and
alaughing-stockfor its friends and enemies alike,
nominated Tucker, and, on the advanced demo-
cratic ticket and as a general supporter of the
Govt., he beat the other five candidates in a
canter. The democratic vote was split by three
other aspirants, yet Owen, the Tory nominee,
only came in a bad third. Champion was a bad
fourth. Bent, who represented the Freetrade
interest as far as he dared, was a woeful fifth,
and got 49 votes against Tucker’s 573 ; if there
was any Freetrade party in S. Melb., it was too
muchashamed of the paunchy boomer to acknow-
ledge him. South Melb. election was the
first chance that a crowd of democratic electors
have had of telling one of the dreadful boomers
what they thought of him, and the result seems
to have surprised the boomer badly. Bent
has been treated with some semblance of
respect by his fellow-speculators at Brigh-
ton, and he probably imagined that
Victoria in general rather liked him
than otherwise, and when he discovered, in
his own dull, bear-like fashion, that he was
politically regarded as partly hog and partly
clown, he was quite dazed. In all his progress
through the electorate he hardly met one con-
stituent who didn’t call him some opprobrious
epithet at sight and say, “ Chuck ’im out on ’is
’ead.” Yet it seemed to him so utterly impos-
sible that any constituency could fail to appre-
ciate Bent that in the early stages of the
contest he apparently regarded it all as a horrid
dream. So he plodded on his heavy, ox-like
way through the campaign, and his broad, flat
feet went on awful pilgrimages up and down
the dingy streets where everybody guffawed at
his pretensions, till at last the polling-day came,
and he found that really and truly the people
didn’t want Bent at any price. No other man,
with Bent’s record, would have attempted to face
a democratic constituency—just now, at all
events. It was a piece of foolishness which
only the most dunderheaded variety of clod
could have been capable of, and the one clod in
ail Victoria who was that particular kind of
clod was Bent. Davies or Munro or almost
any other of the disastrous boomers would have
picked his time and his place carefully, and
obtruded himself on some district which the
financial antics of the boom hadn’t struck quite
so heavily; But the Brighton pachyderm de-
liberately threw his 2cwt. of aggressive beef at
the head of one of the most democratic elec-
torates in Victoria, at a time when a wave of
democratic fervor is passing over the province
and before the odor of sundry past events has
fairly begun to die away ; and the result is one
of the most satisfactory events which has hap-
pened in the Cabbage-Garden for a very long
time. s
“ The Bulletin ” On a Fence.
The N.S.W. Assembly has so far decided in
favor of the proposal to provide for the widow
and young children of Henry Parkes out of
the public revenue that the preliminary resolu-
tion was carried by 55 votes. An aggravated
minority, representing 22 votes, opposed the
measure, and, in the course of the debate the
two parties wrangled furiously over the old
man’s grave. As for the question at issue, it
did not, in a logical sense, get much further
advanced. The case is about equally strong on
either side, and about equally mean-looking
remarks can be made on it either way. Parkes
served the province in Parliament for nearly 40
years, and in office for about 15 years, therefore
New' South Wales should be grateful. It is
questionable if the province wouldn’t have been
quite as well, or perhaps a good deal better,
without his services, taken in a lump, therefore
it is open to argument whether New South
Wales should be grateful or not. Anyhow, the
province paid him for his services, therefore, if
the payment was adequate, there is nothing due
to him, and if it was inadequate, there is some-
thing due —it is difficult to say how much.
Parkes died very, very poor. Possibly he did
so because he was a nobly disinterested man,
who refused to avail himself of his opportunities
as a politician of a lower stamp might have done,
in which case his nobility of character deserves
recognition. Possibly he did so because
he was utterly thriftless, and prodigal, and
careless about his own and other people’s
money, or because he had overreached'himself
in grabbing at too much of the earth, and in
these latter cases there is no obligation. If
Parkes’s children should be supported by the
State because he served the State, then the
claims of every man who did service to the
State, even if he did it with a pick and shovel,
also call for recognition. Parkes’s claim
shouldn’t be recognised because the State
doesn’t recognise similar claims in the cases of
all its servants. Parkes’s claim should
be recognised because the claim of all
public servants should be recognised, and the
recognition must begin somewhere, and it may
as well begin with Parkes as with anybody
else. The people elected Parkes to be their
ruler and fetish and little tin god oftener and
more persistently than they did any other man ;
therefore, having declared him by their votes
to be a great and able and patriotic statesman,
they should at least staud by his memory. On
the other hand, the new political generation
which is springing up is not responsible for the
face that the old generation which is fast pass-
ing away chose to hold Parkes in reverence.
Parkes served in Parliament for perhaps 25
years under the old regime when members
were unpaid, and the country owes him for
these gratis services. On the other hand, he
declared over and over again that he didn’t
want payment, so the country doesn’t owe him
anything under this head. And if it does owe
him anything on this account, it also owes, on
the same account, to all the surviving poli-
ticians of the same era, and as it can’t pay
them all it shouldn’t pay anybody. On the
other hand, as it should pay them all, it should
begin by paying somebody, and that somebody
might as well be Parkes. Also, it might as
well be anybody else than Parkes. If N.S.
Wales allowed the young children of its best-
known politician to drift into the Benevolent
Asylum it would be, to all unthinking people,
and to many thinking people, a dreadful
advertisement of the State’s ingratitude. And,
on the other hand, if it provided for Parkes’s
family and left the families of other men,
who had served the State quite as well
for less money and less notoriety, to shift for
themselves, it would seem to some more deeply-
intelligent people an equally bad case of in-
gratitude. In any case, to provide for Parkes’s
family for purposes of mere advertisement is a
mean and slavish act; and not to provide for
them for purposes of advertisement in such an
extreme case would probably be a supremely
foolish one ; and to provide for them and pro-
fess that it isn’t for purposes of advertisement
would, in the case of most legislators, be a lie
pure and simple. And, under all these circum-
stances —should the N.S. W. Parliament provide
for Parkes’s family at the public expense, or
not?
Mildura is not ChafFey Bros. Ltd.
Mr. N. B. M‘Kay writes from Mildura :
Dear Bulletin,— lt is a mistake to imply that, because
there has been a complete collapse of the company of
Chaffey Bros. Ltd., the Mildura enterprise has proved a
failure. So far as the personal gain of the original pro-
moters was concerned, perhaps the scheme might be so
regarded. They put in all they had, played for a big
stake, and lost. Whatever the Mildura of the future may
be, it is hardly possible that George and W. B. Chaffey
will derive any benefit or advantage from it. So that, in
discussing the condition and prospects of this settlement,
the promoters and their company can be ignored alto-
gether. It is unjust to the thousands who have invested
and settled here, to represent the Mildura enterprise as a
failure. It is nothing of the kind. The productiveness of
the soil under irrigation, and the suitableness of the
climate for profitable fruit culture have been abundantly
demonstrated. There are holdings here now yielding re-
turns of £3O to £5O per acre, and there ought to be
hundreds more doing as well. There is nothing seriously
the matter with Mildura. All the troubles, or almost all,
are attributable to human greed, folly, ignorance, or
neglect, and human effort can set things right again, bet
the place and its people have a fair show. The settlers
have put their own money into this concern, they have
cost the State less per head than any other community m
Australia, and they have contributed more largely to the
revenue of the country than any other section of its in-
habitants. Why should a venture, which has for its basis
all the essential elements of success, be coupled and, m
fact, absolutely identified with the misfortunes of a badly-
financed company ? Having- been over eight years here,
I can speak with some knowledge of the matter, and
I emphatically assert that Mildura might have been,
and that it ought yet to become, all that its pro-


moters predicted it would be. And just one re-
mark in conclusion. It is all very well to blame
G. and W. B. Chaffky for entering upon a scheme
like this without having all the capital which, in the light
of dearly - bought experience, it is claimed that they
should have had. But had they possessed £250,000, or
anything like that sum, they would never have troubled
about investing in Australia. Their scheme was a self-
developing one, and the main reason that their company
went to pieces was that they were not permitted to work
it out in their own way. Four years ago the control of
affairs was taken out of their hands (and it has to be said
that good reasons were shown at the time), the revenues
of their company were cut off, and they were unable to
continue the work they had begun so well. And after
more than eight years’ relations with them—relations in-
volving many transactions—l have to state that I have
found them personally upright and liberal, and, in fact,
anything but the greedy adventurers that they have
frequently been represented to be. Now that they are
down, Tiie Bulletin will not, I think, grudge them this
acknowledgment.
The Rapiport - Baxter Fiasco.
The collapse of the “ Beach Scandals ” case in
Melb. Criminal Court leaves the public with a
choice of two suppositions. It must either be
that the Vic. Crown Law Department lacks
legal gumption, or that the case was intended
to fail. Ex-magistrates Rapiport and Baxter
were presented for trial on a charge of having
conspired with Elizabeth and James Boulter
“ to obstruct, prevent and defeat the due course
of justice.” Sundry other charges might have
been included in the indictment, but the Crown
confined itself to this one. E. and J. Boulter,
as the dullest person may perceive at a glance,
could not give strong evidence against their
alleged co-conspirators without placing them-
selves in the power of the law, nor had the
Crown, seemingly, given them any guarantee
of immunity from prosecution as an induce-
ment for them to tell their tales in the witness-
box. Rapiport’s counsel even raised the objec-
tion that Mr. and Mrs. Boulter couldn't give
evidence until they were disposed of, either by
being discharged or convicted, in conjunction
with the indicted parties. Chief Justice
Madden, before dealing seriously with the ob-
jection, ordered Elizabeth Boulter to be
sworn. His Honor then asked Mrs. B. if she
cared to risk the chance of prosecution by open-
ing her mouth, and she replied that she was
unwilling to speak on that understanding.
“ You have the right to hold your tongue if you
Jesire,” suggested the Judge to the witness.
So the witness took the hint to hold her tongue
and went silently away. Mr. Richard Boulter
followed his wife’s lead. His position having
been carefully explained to him by the learned
Judge, he also elected to leave the box with his
tongue in his cheek. Whereupon the Crown
counsel entered a nolle prosequi in a vague,
uncertain manner, and the friends and relations
of Rapiport and Baxter gave thanks to God,
with some of their heads resting upon the
Rappy-Baxter bosoms. Two courses are open
to the Vic. Crown Law department at time of
writing. It may brand itself as a rogue by
allowing the “Bench Scandals” case to drop,
or declare itself to have been an ass in the first
instance by instituting further proceedings
which will bring two alleged criminals to a
satisfactory trial.
The Fetich of a University Degree.
Dear Bulletin, —The principal sting of your
article, “ A Literary Fish,” is where, rhetori-
cally speaking, it should be, in the tail. It
challenges our Australian Universities to prove
that they have done anything for true culture—
genuine literature—science worthy of the name ;
and the challenge cannot be taken up. No
University can generate the creative intellect,
but any University grievously falls short of its
chief duty, its main raison d’etre, if it does not
supply that stimulative teaching which
awakens the creative order of mind to a sense
of its own power and possibilities. Taking
this affirmation —imperfect as to the whole
scope of University teaching, but complete, I
venture to think, so far as it goes—as a
definition of a criterion, how do our
Australian ’Varsities answer the test ? Do
they not fail to answer it at all ? In the
small body of Australian writings meriting
classification as literature, how paltry the
element contributed by University - trained
men ! In original science work, notwithstanding
our alumni have had the advantage of having
under their eyes an almost unworked field, the
notable results which have been obtained by
first-hand investigation can be enumerated in a
five-line paragraph. In law, something has
been achieved, no doubt ; but even here the
men who have gained admittance through the
legal portals without presenting the ’Varsity
ticket have done, man for man, better than the
cap-and-gown crowd. The reason for this is,
primarily, that our Universities have almost
wholly lacked the splendid type of teacher (the
only type to which reverence and obedi-
ence should attach) —the man who inspires.
Woolley and Badham, Wilson and Aldis
were of that type. Hearn approached
it ; Roby Fletcher our petty provincial
world knows not how great a soul was held
enthralled by denominational fetters in the
frail body of the first Chancellor of Adelaide
University—would have been of it had he begun
to lecture in his prime. Of the younger men,
Jenks was developing—he was some-tenths of
an ass was Jenks, but the rest was fine stuff —
Pitt Cobbett and Anderson are developing :
they have glimmerings of what is due from the
teacher to the hungry-to-be-taught. But these
few faithful —faithful to the ideals of the Great
Teacher—what are they among so many ? Our
’Varsity teaching has been of the perfunctory,
unstimulative order, and, as a result, our
’Varsity degrees have become mere fetiches—
masks of dull aspect veiling duller realities,
which impose alone on the credulous, the
ignorant, and the unthinking.— Pyella.
Svdney City Railway.
This paper has for the past fortnight been
scrutinising the Sydney City Railway subject
at odd intervals with odd corners of its mind,
and has entirely failed to come to any definite
conclusion. The problem seems about as com-
plicated as a discussion whether Parkes was
greater than Mt. Kosciusko, and all that can be
done at present is to sort out a few random
ideas which seem to emerge from the heap
rather more definitely than any others. (1)
Redfern railway-station must be enlarged or
shifted at once. (2) It is better to shift
it into the city than to enlarge it by taking
in the Benevolent Asylum, &c., ground across
the road. (3) Considering that the new arrange-
ments are more or less planned in perpetuity,
first cost—within reasonable limits isn’t of
much consequence. Build for to-day, if
you like, but build also for posterity.
So that, if a moderately good scheme
costs .£500,000, and a very good scheme costs,
say, ,£2,000,000, it would probably be better to
spend the odd <£1,500,000 and get the best
scheme obtainable. (4) The Railway Com-
missioners’ scheme puts the station at Park-st.,
which only lessens the Redfern inconvenience
to a limited degree. Many people coming to
George-st., or west of George-st., or north of
Park-st., will still seek another means of con-
veyance. (5) The Railway Commissioners,
generally speaking, are opposed to schemes in-
volving the expenditure of money, and in favor
of schemes which merely involve the costless
resumption of land—Hyde Park, for example.
The Railway Commissioners are like cricketers:
they have to “keep up their averages.” If
they saddle railway capital with an ex-
penditure on which they cannot pay in-
terest, their net-receipts average will go
down. This would grieve the Railway Com-
missioners. I)o they put departmental interest
before public interest ? They say “ No.” Is it
possible for them to deceive themselves uncon-
sciously ? (6) The King-street site would be
ten times better than the Park-street site, and
would apparently cost about twice as much.
Is it worth while choosing Park street? (7)
The railway must come farther sooner or later.
Is it worth while stopping at Park-street?
Says Governor Hampden :
The people who, in a wickedly self-indulgent way, give
a shilling here and there to beggars, commit an absolute
offence against society The man who gives
£1 to a charity is doing more good than if he gave £5O
in a casual way.
The last statement is pure speculation ; but,
even admitting that organised charity does
more general good than promiscuous, how many
unfortunate wretches have had reason to be
thankful for the “ self-indulgence ” of the
people who believe that the “ Bis dat ” maxim
is as true to-day as in the days of old Rome ?
The temptation to “ wickedness ” of this kind,
at all events, is seldom very violent in people
who talk like his Excellency. The man who,
from a sense of public duty, lacerates his own
feelings to any great extent by refusing to a
dead-beat the price of a meal, is—if he exists !
—a veritable hero. But, about the meanest
thing that w alks is the creature who saddles
upon a politico-economical principle his indiffer-
ence to the sufferings of others or his personal
aversion to “parting” uuder any circumstances.
An infinitely greater man than Lord Hampden
—Edmund Burke— wrote :
“ No obligation to benefit my species by degrees, or
upon system, can override my plain duty to feed the
hungry man, if I can, upon the spot. That is the “ sys-
tem ” which Nature has taught us, and Nature is always
right in the long run.
Vic. M.L.C. Embling, who has lately been
stumping his constituency, says that the Coun-
cil will of course “ ultimately bow to the will
of the people.” This is very kind of the Coun-
cil ; but, all the same, the assertion places that
dismal body on the horns of a very pretty
dilemma. The will of the people can be ex-
pressed in only two ways—by the decision of
the Assembly, or by that of the country at the
polling-booths. Now, if the Council “bows” to
the former, it thereby recognises the Assembly
as representative of the actual wishes of the
people at large ; and such an admission would
sweep away at one stroke all the Council’s pre-
tence of usefulness. If the 48 Rich Landlords
insist upon hearing the people’s decision at a
general election, then their backsliding is
still more vile; for they are then resorting
to the referendum, although most probably
their utter stupidity prevents them from per-
ceiving this. But, in point of fact, the Council
does not wash to bend its back (most M’s.L.C.
are too fat to stoop, anyway) in the very least
degree. Its policy is to delay everything use-
ful and desirable, until a disgusted or forgetful
people is ready to take half, or a-quarter, or
any fraction whatsoever of the loaf originally
demanded. And it is partly the people’s own
fault that this game comes off.
Melbourne Punch item
Russia has recently adopted a system that puts the big
nose of the usurious blood-sucker out of joint, and in this
matter we would do well to take points from the Musco-
vite. A State bank has been established at St. Peters-
burg, with branches in all the towns throughout the
country, where the people can raise loans at 4J per cent,
on all sorts of property, from dairy produce to real estate,
and so far as the experiment has gone it has been an im-
mense success.
Yeb when Maoriland and South Australia
started State banks the M'Kinley paper met
the proposition w ith a dreary sneer, and when
Turner announced his intention of creating a
similar institution in Victoria the same Fat
Man journal received him wdth a scoff and a
groan and a curse. The Tory paper keeps up a
reputation for Liberalism by approving of
democratic measures at the other end of the
world, and objecting to them when they get any
closer ; and by admiring the democrat who is
dead and can’t do anything more, while heaping
maledictions on the one w’ho is alive and active.
Therefore, the democrat wdio is alive is always
told that, if he were only like the one who is
dead, the Fat Man organ wouldn’t mind lending
him its support, but being the degraded object
he is it really can’t do so ; and very few people
notice that it called the dead democrat a de-
graded object also when he was alive, or that
it will begin to gently approve of the present
live one—when he is sufficiently dead. The
M‘Kinley organ’s enthusiasm about a State
bank at the other end of the globe is a touch-
ing hunk of sentiment.
Attorney-General Isaacs has not put „a
healthier complexion on the collapse of the
Rabibort-Baxter case by his attempt to shift
all the blame upon Chief Justice Madden.
Granting that the Judge was in a hurry to
advise (for his persistent cautions amounted to
advice) the chief witnesses to hold their tongues,
the fact remains that they had previously
declared themselves ignorant of their position
as regards the indictment, and it was the
Judge’s explanation which made them refuse to
give evidence against the prisoners. The
Boulters clearly had not been made easy in
their minds at the Crown Law Office ; they
were not encouraged to do their best for the
Crown case. Mr. Isaacs, in his explanations to
the Melbourne pressmen, gave away this impor-
tant feature of the scandal by saying—
A witness cannot refuse to go into the witness-box on
the ground that the evidence he will be asked for would
incriminate him, and that he intends to refuse to give
that evidence. What he has to do is to go into the box,
and after he is sworn he must wait till the objectionable
question is put, and then he can refuse to answer it.
Then the Judge hks to consider his refusal together with
any reasons he (the witness) may give for it, and decide
whether the objection ought to be sustained. If this
question had arisen I have no doubt the Crown-Prosecutor
would at once have satisfied the learned Judge that there
was no reason to fear any prosecution against the
Boulters.
How came it that the Boulters were not
assured of their safety weeks before they went
into court ? If the Crown counsel knew they
had no reason to fear a prosecution, why were
they allowed to assume otherwise, seeing that
the question re their willingness to testify was
only what might have been expected from the
Judge? By not “making it right” with the
Boulters beforehand the Crown Law Office
practically invited the disgusting fiasco which
Attorney-General Isaacs so loudly deplores.
And as for the A.-G.’s “ regret that the matter
was not concluded (mark the word !) in a more
definite manner for the sake of the community
generally,” the community would like to know
why he can’t prosecute Messrs. Rappy and
Baxter on one or more other charges. Surely
the matter is not bound to begin and end with
the abortioned Boulter case !
After long waiting, the Melb. Anti-Vaccina-
tionists have scored a win against the Jenner
Act. This Act provides that if, after receipt
of a notice from a deputy-registrar, any person
neglects to have his child vaccinated, he is to
be deemed guilty of an offence. In another
section provision is made for penalties for second
and subsequent offences. Judge Hodges has
decided that the Act makes no provision for
the sending out of notices by the deputy-
registrar a second time, and that thus, although
it had provided a penalty for a second offence,
it had not created a second offence. Which
practically means that the Anti-Vaccinationists
will get what they have demanded—the privi-
lege of paying a small fine for conscience’ sake,
instead of the ruinous fines necessarily imposed
for subsequent offences. Another pretty speci-
men of the coach-and-four trick. The Board
of Public Health is, of course, very angry, and
will try desperately to have the thing altered.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott’s employment of the
word “frivolous,” in connection with Cope-
land’s amendment on Carruthers’ Homestead
Selections Bill in N.S.W. Assembly last
week, conclusively demonstrates the folly of
leaving sucli a word, without an exact defini-
tion, as a weapon in the armoury of the first
officer of Parliament. Copeland’s amendment
proposed to give 28 additional days’ occupancy
to the present holders of land intended to be
resumed under the provisions of the Bill. It
was the most important amendment proposed
during the discussion ; so important, indeed,
that Ministers saw the necessity of rousing
the House to resist it, with the result that only
Copeland and Perry stood firmly up for it.
Yet Speaker Abbott officially declared the
amendment to be “ frivolous,” and as “ frivo-
lous ” it accordingly figures on the official
record. Manifestly it is not the amend-
ment that was frivolous ; what Abbott’s
ruling means is that the support accorded it,
on one ground and another, was so numerically
small that there was no use on that occasion to
carry the matter further. But surely Parlia-
ment can hit on a word that will express that
particular state of things ; or, if it can’t, it can
surely find some word which will not commit it
to an admittedly false characterisation. “ Every
truth begins with a minority of one.” Every
truth, therefore, which happens to come
before Speaker Abbott during its earliest
stages, in the form of an unpopular motion
or amendment, must go on the records as
itself “ frivolous,” though Mr. Abbott per-
sonally believe it important, though the House
believe it important, though the community
believe it important. “ Frivolous ” it is, be-
cause of the inefficient vocabulary at the dis-
posal of the Parliamentary Chair.
Extracts from a report from the British consul
in Japan, lately published by the British
Foreign Office :
If the people of Australia seek cheapness without being-
particular as to durability, Japan can also soon supply
them with a hundred articles which they now either make
for themselves or import from England or Germany—
matches, boots, saddlery, harness, portmanteaus, hats,
&c., all of which Japan could furnish to them at less than
half the prices they would have to pay for European pro-
totypes. . . . Japan has at present absolutely no re-
quirements that Australia could supply which are not
already satisfactorily met by the much-nearer United
States ; and it is improbable that, unless tempted by lower
prices, Japanese buyers—who are strongly attracted to
the people of the United States by sentimental reasons,
and also by the further consideration that they are by far
Japan’s best customers for all the great staples of her
export trade —will ever seek in Australia articles which
they can obtain in less time and equally good from the
States. Among these are flour, leather, preserved pro-
visions, fruits, wine, biscuits, butter, lard, beef, &c. There
is but a limited field for the importation of Australian
stallions and brood mares, while of a wholesale import of
Australian horses for general use there is not the slightest
prospect. Almost the same may be said as to wool and
mutton.
Apparently something has again gone wrong
with Sydney Daily Telegraph’s theory that
boots aren’t made in Japan ; and Jack Want’s
assertion that there is only one boot-factory
in Chrysanthemum Land, and not much of
that, rests on no foundation. But perhaps
the cheerful Jack didn’t seriously investigate
the Jap. boot-question. Most likely he was—
ahem ! —otherwise employed.
With the exception of the Referendum, the
principles of the new platform of the Victorian
Labor-party and those of the Victorian Con-
vention of 1857 are much alike. It proves how
slowly the Victorian world has marched that
the Convention over which Wilson Gray pre-
sided presented the chief demands, even to elec-
toral equalifications and exclusion of the Chinese
—which a party of to-day puts forw'ard as a
new platform. Where details vary it is ques-
tionable if the new party has improved on
Gray. For instance, the Labor-party proposes
that “ registration shall be the sole qualification
for Parliamentary elections.” The Convention of
’57 resolved that there should be no registration
of voters whatever, but that each elector who
came to vote should take oath that he was duly
qualified, the argument in favor of the resolu
tion being that, as property and life are daily
disposed of by oath, the exercise ot the fran-
chise could be similarly governed. The new
platform provision for the enfranchisement of
seamen and other persons following migratory
occupations was more than equalled by the
Convention resolution permitting every person
to vote on merely making oath that he was two
months in the district.
New South Wales Education Minister Gar-
rard suggests the establishment of a State art
school, directly supervised by his department.
Already N.S. Wales subsidises art students by
a donation to the Art Society’s unsatisfactory
classes, and by endowment of classes at Sydney
Technical College. There is really no reason
why there should not be a national art school,
or a national school of music, and Mr. Garrard,
who knows nothing about either music or art,
can come to an unbiassed decision in the
matter. But the N.S. Wales Education
Minister who really desires to be famous must
democratise the University, and bring it under
direct departmental control as the keystone of
the province’s educational system.
To the numerous objections from all parts of
the world to the demonstrated inefficiency of
the Privy Council as a final Court of Appeal
from Courts dispensing all known systems of
jurisprudence, it has been repeatedly urged of
late by eminent authorities that there is no
longer any reason to complain, on account of
the fact that the membership of the P.C. and of
the House of Lords in its judicial capacity are
now practically the same. But hardly is this
effected than another change is made, by draft-
ing into the P.C. possibly incapable and super-
annuated colonial Judges possessed of the
requ site amount of impudence and social influ-
ence. The possibility of a Falkland Island
Judge having the balance of power in deter-
mining a Mercadool appeal, or a Kanaka Judge
from Queensland deciding the applicability of a
Maoriiand Undesirable Immigrants Act to
Solomon Islanders, or a YVindeyer on a murder
appeal, should urge Australians at once to
jockey the P.C. out of its seat, and substitute,
whether we get Federation or not, a wisely-
constituted Australian Federal Court of Appeal.
A startling judgment just given by the U.S.
Supreme Court (Circuit) on the question of the
burden of proof in criminal cases when the
plea of insanity is raised :
The law presumes that everyone charged with crime is
sane, and thus supplies, in the first instance, the required
proof of capacity to commit crime. It authorises the
jury to assume at the outset that the accused is criminally
responsible for his acts. But that is not a conclusive pre-
sumption which the law, upon grounds of public policy,
forbids to be overthrown or impaired by opposing proof.
It is a disputable, or, as it is often designated, a rebuttable
presumption. . . . Strictly speaking, the burden of
proof, as those words are understood in criminal law, is
never upon the accused to establish his innocence, or to
disprove the facts necessary to establish the crime for
which he is indicted. It is on the prosecution from the
beginning to the end of the trial, and applies to every
element necessary to constitute the crime. ... If
the whole evidence, including that supplied by the pre-
sumption of sanity, does not exclude beyond reasonable
doubt the hypothesis of insanity, of which some proof is
adduced, the accused is entitled to an acquittal of the
specific offence charged.
A writer in Westminster Review has
been urging the amendment of that part of the
law which gives judges and magistrates abso-
lute immunity from actions, even though their
judgments have been given from malicious or
corrupt motives. It doesn’t appear to be much
use urging such a proper reform in this judge-
ridden country, but surely something might be
done to provide unfortunate witnesses with an
action against barristers in the following cases :
1. Where the cross-examining barrister makes slander-
ous statements which are unnecessary to support the case
of his client.
2. Where he makes them without justification or excuse.
3. Where he makes them actuated by personal ill-will
or anger.
4. Where they are irrelevant to every question of fact
in issue before the Court.
Counsel’s privilege of slander in such cases as
these is based on the same principle of law as
the privilege of the corrupt or malicious judge
of the Westminster reviewer.
Were not the solicitors of Sydney a long-
suffering and humble crowd, they would never
have submitted so long to the indignities to
which they are subjected in the Supreme Court.
No accommodation worthy of the name is there
provided for them. Should a solicitor attend
to hear a case, woe betide him if he trespasses
on the seats inscribed “barristers,” and set
aside for those pets of the Bench—the “ mem-
bers of the bar.” He may be reproved from the
bench for his audacity (this has happened more
than once) ; at the least, he will be approached
by a tipstaff and invited to get out, or, at any-
rate, take one of the back seats, bearing the
legend, “ Legal profession.” Even there, how-
ever, he is not safe, for, should there be a large
influx of briefless juniors, he will be hunted
again to make room for them. Matters have
gone even further than this; lately a
solicitor, who was conducting his own case,
was naturally seated at the court-table ; on the
arrival of a bewigged and begowned youngster,
for whom there was no vacant chair, the pre-
siding Judge told him he must give up his seat
to the barristerial suckling—adding that solici-
tors must not sit at the table to the exclusion of
barristers, but must give way to them always.
One would imagine that, as a solicitor has
audience in the Supreme Court, he has as much
right to a seat at the table, when conducting his
case, as has a barrister. The Judges, however,
think otherwise. The barristers have rooms
provided for them at the Equity Court and
No. 2 Jury Court, but members of the “ lower
branch ” must not enter their sacred precincts.
When counsel is employed the solicitor,
in some of the courts, has to perch him-
self on a bench, with the table between
him and his counsel, and has to bawl his in-
structions across the table, thereby giving his


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1895.
ASSETS - £41,876,956
SURPLUS - 8,442,502
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
THE TONTINE POLICIES of this Society maturing in 1896 will show substantially
the same results as those maturing in 1895.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); THOMAS CADELL, Esq. ;
Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.; Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
A ivarded
Gold Medal,
d
Chi cago,
1893.
COLEMANE A SONS, Ltd.,
WORLD-FAMED
Bucalypte Extract
CURES
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Consumption, Influenza, &c., &c.
ASK FOR
Coleniane & Sons’ Eucalypte,
And SEE that you GET IT.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
r OLEMANE & SONS~Ltd.,
KRAWLIN, near COOTAMUNDRA, N.S W.
A tall Smoke!
«» \
'S '
w,
Vi
fix
!_n
TTI
'I
nr
m
iHi
r
¥fi
I I •
and yet within
reach of all
The
Old
Dominion
Cigarettes.
opponents an extensive insight into his case. In
fact, neither the public nor the solicitors receive
any consideration at the hands of those respon-
sible for providing them with accommodation.
However, the public is an ass, and therefore
need not be taken into consideration ; but The
Bulletin does wonder that the solicitors have
not got sand enough to enter a protest against
being kicked about from pillar to post in the
courts.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum ......... “Trilby.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Wages of Sin.”
Royal “ The Derby Winner.”
Criterion “ An Ideal Husband.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Redfkrn Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ As You Like It.”
Royal “ The Silver King.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Pinero’s “ Benefit of the Doubt,” which is
the latest new bill at Sydney Cri., shows itself
well up to its British reputation. It is a clever
story of how two homes were burst-up, not by
the great, crude paw of conspiracy and crime as
homes are burst-up in melodrama, but by the
small things which bring about trouble in real life.
There are two heroines. One marries a Scotch-
man who insists on taking her to his ancestral
castle under the shadow of Ben Thingumbob, and
keeps her there till she loathes the grouse,
and the heather, and the retainer with his
bagpipes, and her husband’s kilts, and can’t
take his knobby bare knees seriously any
longer. The other lady’s jealousy drives her hus-
band out of doors, and the man who is trying to
escape his w r ife’s language and the woman who is
avoiding her husband’s kilt and the nightmare of
his two knees get to sympathising with each other.
Then they get into the divorce-court, where the
Judge gives Mrs. Brough the benefit of the doubt
but warns her to walk a chalk-line in future.
And thereupon the broken-down co-respondent
appeals to her kilted husband for sympathy
and doesn’t get it, and flies in despair to the
house of the respondent, just as the plaintiff
has arrived there on all-fours to abase herself and
promise not to be a she-fiend any longer. And
there the co-respondent drowns her misery in too
much champagne on the respondent’s premises,
and asks him to fly with her, while the plaintiff
listens in the next room ; and the respondent, who
knows on one hand that the plaintiff is listening
and on the other that the co-respondent is getting
partly crazed and partly intoxicated, has a really
interesting time. The co-respondent, who is sup-
posed to be a pure and noble woman, grows un-
pleasantly realistic at this stage, and in any case a
woman who is partly tight and has dropped her
manners in a heap on the floor is more or less
Zola-esque at all times.
* * * *
Even after this outbreak, however, Pinero
contrives to make an artistic and happy ending of
the drama by means of a bishop and other ex-
traneous circumstances. Still, Mrs. Brough’s very
fine performance is marred somewhat by the re-
collection of the author’s moral hiccough in act
11., and it seems a pity that part of the hiccough
isn’t left out. Miss Beryl Faber scores another
big success as the plaintiff; and the dramatic scene
where these two ladies get together—both sober
and desolate and disconsolate —and the plaintiff
offers in effect to let the co-respondent stand on
her with both feet by way of reparation, and
the co-respondent fails to see how that will
improve the situation, is one of the best
things either of them has yet accomplished.
Cecil Ward, who is supposed to be the Caledonian
husband, is somewhat unconvincing because his
kilts don’t appear, and he has no accent and no
bagpipes and but little to do ; but Titheradge, as
the other husband, has a large, convincing char-
acter, and plays it admirably. Six other people,
including Brough, Boucicault, and Misses Watt-
Tanner and Kate Bishop, help more or less directly
to bring the drama about, or to keep it from
getting away when it is about, and fill in spaces
while the two heroines are getting ready to break
out in a fresh place ; and they all give complete
satisfaction. “The Benefit of the Doubt ” is dis-
tinctly a powerful play, and the co. plays it for all
there is in it. Also it contains a great moral of
some kind, though which moral the present writer
hasn’t yet decided, and the management describes
it on the bill as “a comedy.”
** h *
“The Derby Winner,” at Sydney Royal,
deserves special mention as an honorable howl in
four acts and thirteen scenes. As a drama it
is about up to the average, and as a pageant it is
vast and gorgeous and stupendous and makes the
spectator feel as if Solomon’s Temple had struck
him unexpectedly in the eye. It is a moving mass
of gas and glitter and scenery and horse and mili-
tary uniform, furniture, millinery, ancestral man-
sion, dazzle, paint, and rich, high-toned shriek.
As for the literary contents, they include the
villain, and the adventuress, and the distracted
wife, and the good girl, and the girl who is led
astray and starts talking about her honor because
she hasn’t any, and the funny man, and the other
accustomed props and circumstances. Also there
is a real billiard-table, and a moderately realistic
Derby at which the good man’s horse wins, and
the bad man’s horse is disgracefully left through a
complication of circumstances, and doesn’t even
get started. Consequently, the bad man is so
utterly and hopelessly broke that the author
doesn’t even think it necessary to explain what
becomes of him, but presumably he afterwards
makes a precarious living with a baked - ’tater
barrow. The adventuress is also left unfinished —
she laughs a wild laugh like that of a maniac
robbed of her clothing and departs out of the tale,
leaving her after-fate to the imagination ; alid
what becomes of the girl who lost her honor is not
mentioned ; but there is a general atmosphere of
happiness about things at the end, and presum-
ably all is well, Of the ladies who in ex-
pounding the narrative, the graceful Miss Frances
Ross deserves the first place, with Miss Vivienne a
very good second. Mrs. Holt is somewhere close
up, and Miss Elizabeth Watson brings up the rear
with a hard cackle and a tendency to whisky-and-
soda. Still this lady produces the biggest effect
she has yet achieved in Sydney when she kneels
down solemnly in the centre of the stage and
says “Damn!” It is a deep, soulful,
realistic curse the curse of a woman in
an evening wrapper, with her hair down-a
lost woman swearing on a ruined man’s Turkey
carpet and refusing to be comforted. The fact
that this part with the large swear in it is the first
in which Miss Watson hasn’t been quite such a
failure as she was in the other ones suggests the
painful reflection that perhaps she ought to swear
oftener. Baker plays the hero in his usual finished
style. Cosgrove is distinctly better than usual,
and Bland Holt, Norman, Charles Brown, and
Miss Flora Anstead are all highly satisfactory.
The fact that the girl who has lost her honor is
wooden and mechanical is hardly noticeable among
the overwhelming scenery and stupendous mass of
horse. A small, pallid girl trying to explain about
her honor in front of all these effects is bound to
be unconvincing, anyhow.
* * * *
“ The Wages of Sin ” is to be staged next
Saturday “ by arrangement with W. J. Holloway,
Esq.,” at Her Majesty’s, which is one more
evidence of the amazing tendency things have to
happen by arrangement with Plain Bill Hol-
loway. Meanwhile, the realistic locomotive in
“ Across the Continent ’’—almost the only stage
locomotive this paper has seen which looks fit to
run for its life—will continue until Friday to bring
the United States troops on the scene just in time
to prevent Manager Woods losing his scalp, and
the accustomed spectacle of blood and carnage,
hair, smoke, battle and dead-meat will continue
as usual.
* * * *
There is nothing specially new to say this
week on the subject of “Trilby,” save that The
Bulletin man thinks he has discovered a corn on
the heroine’s dainty extremity, and if his suspi-
cion proves well-founded he intends to make
trouble. A Trilby with a corn isn’t what the
public bargained for. anyhow. At the same time,
things might be worse. For instance, this paper
knows of two actresses now in Australia who
would do the Trilby business well enough but for
the fact that they have eleven corns between them.
How they are divided isn’t known with certainty,
for each alleges that she has one corn and that the
remaining ten belong to the other woman.
* * * *
Rev. Charles Clark was announced to start
his series of lectures too late for notice in this
issue, so the eloquent Rev. is reluctantly held over
till next week. By the time this gets into
print Mr. Clark—if nothing has intervened—
will be letting his magnificent voice loose in
Sydney Centenary Hall. The first lecture, by the
way—the one fixed for Tuesday night—contains a
lot about the liberties of Hingland, and the
advantages of living under Queen Victoria, and
the future Federation of the Empire ; and as this
paper doesn’t care to hear a man who is capable of
better things wasting himself in a building which
is fitted for a better purpose on the weary question
of the Silken Bonds, it is just as well pleased
that the said lecture arrived too late for notice.
* * * *
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus continues to
flourish, and so does Rickards’ Tivoli show, and
various other things. Charles Godfrey shows no
falling off, neither does Mahomet, the Talking
Horse, and the report that money continues to
come in freely at both establishments grows so
monotonous that this paper hereby swears off all
further mention of it as long as it lives.
* * * *
Further inspection of “Silver King,” at
Melbourne Royal, strengthens The Bulletin’s
faith in that gold-mounted show. It even im-
proves on acquaintance. Plimmer’s Spider has
become a somewhat louder and more emphatic
criminal than at first, when he under-acted the
character in accordance with Garner and Sass
traditions. In fact, Plimmer began by restricting
himself to an imitation of Sass, a quiet, gentle-
manly creature whose bloodless method didn’t
deserve to be reproduced. Now that the young
man suits his accent to the word, and his
gesture to the deed—which the other Spider
didn’t —he may consider himself a complete success.
Scot Inglis developes his natural fitness for the
name-part, and Miss Harrie Ireland begins to
show a warm and tender fellow-feeling for the
character of Nellie Denver, more especially in the
cottage scene, when the wolf howls at the door
and Bodger, the baker, is her only hope. Also
Elton, Sweeney, and the company in general, are
going strong. The drunken passenger, who de-
mands an escort to a third-class smoking carriage,
deserves honorable mention for his neat study in
alcoholic effect, but praise for a small-part actor
is unfortunately apt to inflate the object and lead
him into extravagance. It is likely that “Silver
King ” will travel the remainder of Westmacott’s
course, and pass the post with a good many
pounds in hand.
* * * *
At the Princess’s they are doing satisfac-
tory business with “In Town.” The show, as
now treated, is less showy than the previous dis-
play ; nevertheless, the opera co. puts in several
claims to favorable comparison with the more
glamorous crowd of yore. Strange to say, Palotta,
the most-worshipped and overrated among the
bygone goddesses, is the least missed of them all.
Miss Muret seems about equal to Palotta in every-
thing, except age, and the fault of one pretty
woman in being a year or so younger than another
is readily forgiven by this benevolent journal.
Besides, Miss M. couldn’t avoid the defect any
more than Miss Nash could wipe out the peculiar
conditions of Fred Kaye’s walk. The present
call-boy is lacking in splay feet, but otherwise she
behaves humorously, and goes almost as far as the
original Shrimp. One consecutive performance of
“ A Gaiety Girl” concludes the musical comedy
season on Friday night'.
** # *
On Saturday the Princess’s will fall again
under the spell of Mrs. Potter and Kyrle Bellew,
whose five years’ absence has probably endeared
them to Melbourne. Anyway the city is already
disposed to rejoice over the return of these in-
teresting wanderers, and their first appearance in
“As You Like It” has been anticipated by a
furious rush for seats. Mrs. Potter in doublet
and hose, especially hose, is the question of the
hour.
** # *
Dan. Barry has prudently withdrawn him-
self and 00. from the Alexandra for a time, in
order that he may come back with a certain air of
freshness in the not too distant future. Daniel’s
latest tenancy of the theatre lasted six months,
during which period he attacked twenty dramas,
more or less, and kept the “ghost” moving.
Therefore, he can glance back at a long succession
of Alexandra managers who failed miserably, and
congratulate himself, like the Pharisee in the
Worrd.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House nothing special
has been happening beyond the indisposition of
Alice Leamar. The pit and upper circles seem to
take offence at Alice’s state of health, and when
somebody, armed with a medical certif., an-
nounces that the volatile damsel can’t appear,
the multitude shouts Yah ! Booh ! or words
to the same effect. John Coleman was to
retire from the bill on Wednesday so as
to leave more room for the renowned Frantz
Family. These high-toned acrobats landed in
Melbourne early last week, and will make their
Australian debut this (Thursday) evening. The
nicety of their work is such that the voyage out
from Hingland unfitted them for immediate
action, so, in the meantime, they have been oiling
their joints and recovering their lost perfection.
At Poverty Point .
Kyrle Bellew started life at sea, but was pretty well dis-
gusted by knocking about the India waters. In Melb. he
lectured for a panorama of the Franco-German war at
the Waxworks, and afterwards as reporter for the Evening
Herald used to write police-court reports in this strain :
“ Mr. Brown and Mrs. Brown don’t get on well together.
The other night Mrs. B. got tight and he commenced to
leather. Fined five bob.” He went to England as third
officer of the ship Thomas Stephens, and acted under the
name of Harold Kyrle, being Osric to Irving’s Hamlet.
He was married in Melb. to Mdlle. Eugenie Legrand, after
which a severe cold lodged him three months in the
Alfred Hospital.
Peart (Mercutio): “ ’Tis not so deep as a well, nor so
wide as a church-door, but ’tis enough ; ’twill serve. Ask
for me to-morrow and you shall find me a grave man.”
Frank Cates is dying of consumption in Melb. A private
collection amongst his many 7 friends has superseded the
public “ benefit,” which is so often nothing of the kind.
Wallace Brownlow is really quitting the Firm’s opera
co. this week, at the end of the Melbourne season. More-
over, it is almost certain that W.B. will sail for America
shortly, but the ladies mustn’t abandon all hope until he
gets aboard the lugger. Nothing is certain of a young
man who returns to the stage after he has bought a pick-
axe to go gold-mining with.
Melb. : “ Brownlow is wise. He will only prospect for
nuggets on the stage. He may have once given it up,
and come back, but then he was thinner and 30, a differ-
ent affair to being fatter and on the verge of 40. The
theatre nowadays is emphatically a case of making hay
while the sun shines, like being a Carbine or a cricketer.
The professional life of a Brownlow, at his zenith, apex,
and apogee, is only about ten years, and he cannot slice
them out where he pleases.”
A pen-picture of a prima-donna : —A tripping wisp of
Jewess, short skirted, thin ankled, a palpable deposit of
powder on the face, a very angry mouth, bright black
eyes, gilt hair, a blue costume splashed with scarlet, and
a scarlet cock’s feather stuck in a jaunty hat. And this
is the swift five-feet six of self-confident girldom at which
the boys turn round to look and make remarks.
During their recent visit to the United States Dan and
Tom Fitzgerald found themselves in a railway carriage
opposite to a solemn-looking American (why are Ameri-
cans so solemn-looking ?) who, observing their strange way
of speaking the American tongue, said, “Guess y 7 ou’re
English?” “Oh, no; nothing of the sort. We’re Aus-
tralians.” “ 11. landall, y’are ? ” From a suspicious
demeanor the solemn one changed to cordiality, and the
brothers soon found that an Australian is a persona grata
to Americans, while the Britisher simply 7 isn’t. During
the journey the solemn man cited, with damnable itera-
tion, the various wonders of his Great Country 7, and, in a
contest of patriotism, Tom and Dan found it necessary to
raise the Blue Mountains 14,000 feet, run a spiral railway
up to the summit of Mt. Victoria (17,460 ft.), endow them
with everlasting snow and the largest glacier in the world ;
widen the Murray River at Border Town and span it with
a bridge eight miles long ; increase the speed of all Aus-
tralian trains by 20 miles an hour, abolish the steam-trams
in Sydney, deepen the Mount Gambier lake, increase the
population of Australia by 20 millions, establish an admir-
able system of water conservation and irrigation through-
out the country, discover a great inland lake larger than
Lake Superior, deepen all the coal-mines and raise the
output of gold, praise the sheep, finish the North Shore
bridge, exterminate the rabbits, devise a full and workable
system of local Government for N.S. Wales, magnify the
Jenolan caves, supply the Australias with an army and
a fleet, create a central Government sitting at Boo-
ligal, and elect an Australian President—all within a 24
hours’ journey.
Photographer Falk is not impressed by the commercial
morality of many visiting “stars” who have brought
their patronage to the studio. A long experience of pro-
fessional sitters is embittered by many recollections of
unpaid bills and petty meanness. The stage and concert
platform are not training grounds for high principle, as
far as orders for photos, are concerned. Falk makes a
few honorable exceptions. Maud Hobson was somewhat
remarkable among the Gaiety Girlers for a sense of fair
dealing. Mrs. Potter and Bellew respected themselves
and their contracts, and Sarah Bernhardt did the generous
thing, as usual. Falk’s paid £lOO for the sole right of
“taking” the famous French actress in Australia, and
she, being pleased with the work, subsequently “ gave as
good as she took ” in the form of a huge order for por-
traits, which she could very well have dispensed with no
doubt.
Lawrence Irving, says The Bulletin’s London corre-
spondent, is beginning to tread in his famous father’s
footsteps, and is making good headway in his chosen pro-
fession. He, like the old man, has mannerisms without
number, and by-and-bye he may show that he inherits
genius. He is now playing Svengali in one of Tree’s
travelling co’s, and has made a decidedly good impression,
although he has not the advantage of the inspiration
which might be derived from the presence of his fianciein
the name-part.
lie actors’ superstitions. I know more than one Aus-
tralian “ pro.” who won’t accept an engagement on a
Friday ; while as to objectors to starting out on tour on
that day, or going out with a co. consisting of 13 mem-
bers, I could enumerate dozens. No “ pro.,” again, will
ever speak the tag of a piece during rehearsal. Stagk-
Door.
London papers praise the ’all performances of “ Miss
Louise Beaudet” —B(e)audet means donkey, and Louise was
a pretty little donkey—“ a chanteuse eccentrique ; but
formerly of the regular stage, both in England and
America.” This, of course, is the Beaudet whom Aus-
tralia remembers as leading-lady in Bandmann’s co., a
dozen years ago. At that time, she appeared to be' in
thraldom to the unpleasant German tragedian, like more
than one pretty woman before her. Bandmann’s mesmeric
power over the sex was considerable.
A boxing pony is to take the place of the late lamented
kangaroo “ Jack,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent. ‘ ‘ Professor ” Landemann is training the equine
who will soon be put through his facings in public. We
had a private view of him at Walworth this week. The
performance did not impress me much, but he can hit
hard.
Alfred Moul, now manager of London Alhambra, erst-
while musical critic of Melb. Age, has received from the
French President the decoration of Offieier de T Instruc-
tion Publique, as a reward for his untiring efforts on
behalf of the Soci<st6 des Auteurs, Compositeurs, et
Editeurs de Musique de France —in other words, for his
zeal in bringing to book those who, without authority,
annexed the works of French authors and composers. ’
Lovely woman seems responsible for the literally down-
ward tendency of dramatic art. Some 29 years ago
actresses drew audiences by the exercise of their brains
then came the decolletb or undraped and heaving-bosom
period, which was quietly followed by the leg-show-- -the
descent of art from the head to the limbs being very
rapid. The climax is reached by “ Trilby ’ —the drama of
the bared feet. Apparently the dramatic thermometer
has now reached freezing-point.
Clever Jennie Reiffarth, the Madame Vinard of “Trilby,”
was at first an operatic star. Her “ first appearance ” was
in “ II Trovatore,” in which she played Leonora at almost
a moment’s notice on the engaged prima donna throwing
up the role.
Cockaigne : “I never heard of such a reproduction of
the artist by the child, in gifts besides form, as Madame
Trebelli is of her mother, though there appears to have
been a strange divagation in tastes.”
Lysterite: “Trebelli, in Melb., makes one think of
grand opera. Who will tell us that another magnificent
entrepreneur, such as the one who ruled 30 years ago,
could not bring along the Wagnerian cycle and all that is
modern, even as he delighted us with ‘ The Huguenots,’
‘ La Juive,’ 1 Aida ’ —and ‘ Lohengrin ’ ?”
That Barney Barnato “ tumbled through Australia with
a circus” is as thoroughly substantiated as—well, the
Bunyip. It was a mule named Barney. The supposed
Barnato is wandering for his bread, swallowing stones,
and eating chains.
“ As You Like It,” the Potter and Bellow play, has not
often heen seen in Melb. Brooke condescended to act
Jacques. So did Barry Sullivan, in his management at
Melb. Royal. Essie Jenyns, in “Rosalind,” is the most
graceful souvenir.
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis was first announced, in error, as
the Lady Carlisle of the Melb. Trinity Collegians’ “ Straf-
ford,” and it proved to be Mrs. L. L. Lewis. Natheless,
one thinks of Mrs. G.B.W. as a struggling woman, in the
prime of life, cruelly shelved as an actress. Many Aus-
tralians went to see her in London, a couple of years ago,
as Mrs. Oakly, in “ The Jealous Wife,” and will testify she
was the unlucky best of her line.
Mrs. L. L. Lewis once more eyed the floats with the
Melb. Trinity Amateurs in “ Strafford.” Had she not left
the stage 30 years ago it is evident she would have
bloomed into achievements much beyond those of her
then tender age for a leading lady.
Pagliacci: “One with a faint recollection of theatrical
f cites in London, long out of fashion, could not help con-
trasting the fresh, beautiful, and ladylike actresses of
this Melb. one with the memory of raddled, impudent,
painted hussies, more corresponding to the low type of
circus-rider or vulgar cheap saloon barmaid of to-day.”
Memories of the Melb. Opera House tragedy of 15 years
ago, were revived last week by the arrest of one Robert
Greer for housebreaking, at Warrnambool (Vic.). This
young Bob Greer proved to be a son of the Greer who
shot his wife and her French lover—they were sitting
in a private box at the time—previous to settling himself
with another bullet.
Jennie Reiffarth and Maggie Moore, who hadn’t seen
one another for years, met again in a stage-box at Melb.
Princess’s the other night before the “Trilby” season
ended. Jennie recognised Maggie in the box—probably
she knew 7 where to look for her old friend—and threw off
a melodramatic exclamation as she walked down stage.
At the conclusion of the act she broke the theatre-rule
by rushing into Maggie’s presence, and exchanging hugs
with her in a dark corner of the den, until the call-boy
summoned the impetuous lady back to business.
Miss Geraldine Olliffe, says The Bulletin’s London cor-
pondent, came well through the ordeal of her appearance
as leading lady in Henry Arthur Jones’s new play, “The
Rogues’ Comedy,” at the Garrick. It is not a great work,
but it is interesting enough, though it is mightily reminis-
cent of more than one French play.
“ Charley’s Aunt ” is even now clearing £2OO per week
in London, and has broken the “ Our Boys ” record for
long-staying.
Wallace Kennedy, “ the South Australian tenor,” con-
buted songs of Schubert and Mendelssohn at a Steinway
concert, as London D.T. says, “in a manner studiously
modest and void of offence.”
Old Harry Stanley died the other week in Newcastle
(N.S.W.) hospital, and few people seem to have heard of
his passing hence. Yet the veteran deserved more
obituary notice than the average theatrical identity.
Stanley was a pioneer showman in India and Africa,
especially India, where he had a juvenile opera co.
running, under the management of Tom Liddiard (Fanny
L’.s brother), at the time of his death. For years he pros-
pered so exceedingly that, although the Oriental Bank
failure knocked him to the tune of £40,000, he must have
left a good deal of property in sundry places. Harry’s
business ability was not hampered by his social disposi-
tion. Almost to the last he had a keen eye for contem-
plating the wine when it is red.


Mining: Irrigation &. Ventilation.
A REVOLUTION.
GALVANISED IRON PIPING.
One-Tenth the Weight same size Cast-iron Piping.
COSTS less for Pipes and Carriage than same size Cast-
Iron Piping for carriage alone. Made in Pipes from 12 to
6 in diameter to stand from 400 to 8001 b. pressure to
square inch. All particulars on application to
g 25oIlner, 443 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
MILES T. CARROLL &. CO.,
Mining and Finance Brokers , Valuators, die.,
PRACTICAL & RELIABLE FINANCIAL ADVISERS
—IN—
STOCK, SHARES, OR REAL ESTATE.
Trust Money advantageously Invested. Best
Interest and Security obtained.
Experts report on Mines throughout Australia.
70 Queen-st., Melbourne. [Telephone 1603.
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING.
BALATA^
*3
ELTIN
BALATA*
DICKS
jBELTING
Is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE to
Wm. A.tla,ins & Compy.,
Oil Merchants «fc Engineers’ Furnishers,
71 Clarence-st,, Sydney; 521-523 Collins-st., Melbourne
The Wild-Cat Column .
Melbourne Age makes a financial suggestion
which is worth a lot of serious thought. The Vic. Govern-
ment has about £2,000,f!0i) of 4 per cent, loans falling due
next year, and £1,600,000 falling due in’99. South Aus-
tralia has £500,000 of 4) per cent, bonds falling due in
’9B, and £1,400,000 of 4 per cent, loans; due between now
and ’99. At present money is so cheap that it is about 100
to 1 it will never be cheaper in Australia within the
memory of this generation, and it is at least 10 to 1 it
will become much dearer before these loans fall due.
Therefore, it might be a great idea to offer now a local
loan at par and bearing, say, 3J per cent, interest, to meet
these obligations when they arrive, and sell the stock
gradually at the Treasury as the money came in. It
would only come in gradually, and, as the Government
could probably put it on pretty safe deposit at 2) per cent,
till it is wanted, the loss of interest in the interval would
be very little. And against this loss there is the saving
in the expenses of flotation, and the fact that the loan
which would now probably realise £lOO might later on,
in a tighter market, fetch only £95 or £94. If there ever
was a chance to raise a big loan locally at very low in-
terest and thus transfer some of this country’s English
obligations to the local market that chance is here now,
and it is a pity to let it pass in the shadowy hope that an
equally good chance may be here a year or two later. It
is only two years since N.S.W. and Queensland had to
borrow in London at 4J per cent, and Victoria at nearly
4)6, and in two years more these rates may be prevailing
again for all any one really knows to the contrary.
Apropos The Bulletin’s contention that loans can be
raised as cheaply in Australia as in London : In 1873-76
N.S. Wales raised a 4 per cent, loan in Sydney, and at the
same period it borrowed at 4) per cent, in London. In
1892-93 it raised a local loan at 4 per cent., and in 1893 it
borrowed in London at 4) per cent. Victoria raised 4 per
cent, loans in Melbourne in 1872, ’B2, ’B7, ’B9 and ’94. In
1874 it borrowed in London at £4l3s. ; in 1876 at £4 6s. lOd.;
in 1879 at £4 12s. lOd. ; in ’B3 at £4 3s. ; and in ’93 at £4
9s. 6d. So far as experience goes, except when very large
amounts are wanted, Australia is not only about as cheap
as England now but it has been so very often before.
It is a curious circumstance, by the way, that N.S. Wales
began by borrowing in the local market and made a heavy
loss by shifting its business to England. Between 1849
and 1854 the Government floated in Sydney four loans at
£4 18s. 9d. per cent., and every one of them sold at a
heavy premium. Next it floated two at £4 3s. Bd. per
cent, and sold them also at a premium. Then in 1855 it
shifted its borrowing business to London, paid 5 per cent,
interest, and sold its securities at a heavy discount in
addition. It kept on paying this 5 per cent. - for 17 years.
Which is a very solemn thing to look back upon over the
wastes of the intervening period. If N.S.W. hadn’t wanted
to borrow quite the whole globe in one act—if, say, half
the globe would have served its purpose—it could pro-
bably have dispensed with the London money-lender
from the beginning until now.
* * * *
Vague cablegrams keep arriving to the effect
that Robert Harper is getting on well in his negotiations
with the British depositors of the Commercial Bank of
Australia, and that the arrangements for a reduction of
interest and an extension of time are nearly completed.
Meanwhile, the exact nature of the proposals is still kept
dark, and how much more time and how much less in-
terest the Commercial requires remain a mystery.
* * * *
Kenwood, one of the men who want a conces-
sion for building a bridge over Sydney Harbor, writes to
Sydney D.T. stating proudly that if he gets the concession
he is “ prepared to deposit £lO,OOO within a reasonable
time” as a guarantee that the work will be really done.
What does Kenwood consider a reasonable time? And
shouldn’t the deposit be planked down before the conces-
sion is granted ?
» * * *
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Co.,
whose balance-sheet was favorably commented on in Tiie
Bulletin of 23rd May, reports that it has now “ Invest-
ments, £122,083.” A concern of this size should at least
inform its shareholders as to the nature of its securities ;
“investments, £122,083 ” is a lamentably small amount of
information.
* * * *
Reuter’s Telegram Co. has declared a div. at
the rate of 5 per cent, per annum, adds £6382 to reserve,
which now stands at £14,000, and has a balance to carry
forward.
• * * »
Dear Bulletin, — As one of the pioneers in 1889
of the share-export trade from Melbourne to London, I
venture to correct your opinion that the Melb. market
cannot finance the present boom. Every scripper for
whom I export shares to London puts his proceeds into
local shares. In other words, when trams, Hills, or Lyells
are sold in London, Bands or North Long Tunnels, or
some other trustworthy, reliable, old call-maker, are bought
in Melbourne. Our mining revival in Victoria is thus
owing to British capital owned and employed by Vic-
torians. May Igo further and assert that the share-ex-
port trade is bigger than the butter-export business, and
employs more people in mining and its allied industries
than are employed in farming. Here follows a word in
favor of the broking cult. Lots of people have been able,
by selling shares in London, to get money to pay 1893
calls here. Yet no State has ever given a broker a bonus,
or if it has I’ve been on ’Change when the Treasury
officer called with the cheque. Don’t, please, hurl that
oumbrous assegai “ Foreign Capital ” at me. Aus-
tralia is till eternity pawned to Foreign Capitalists,
and what does it matter if the “ F.C.” garner a few wild-
cat mines along with some of our best securities ? Some
wild-cats can become domesticated, the Great Boulder to
wit—and some tame ones go very wild, witness Bayley’s
Reward. John Bull always pays too much for his foreign
shares because he applies a British percentage test to a
foreign value. Bother the butter and boot bonuses !
They exist because politicians exist, and I’ll make one to
start a holocaust of members of Parliament, who, by
over-mortgaging Australia, have left us a mere equity of
redemption in the best and brightest land (pardon me,
Colonel Bell) on God’s footstool. —Yours, G.D.M.
* * * *
It transpired in the big Tasmanian Equity
suit that defendant John Henry owed the Bank
of V.D.L. £31,000 when that institution went bung.
The River Don Trading Co., practically another
of Henry’s concerns, had about £31,700 on the
V.D.L. slate. The bank agreed to take £12,000 in
cash in liquidation of John Henry’s £31,000, but the full
amount was not forthcoming, so the now-disputed shares
were pledged as collateral security for the balance.
According to the reported evidence the Don Trading Co’s
estate has panned out something less than a color to the
dish. The true inwardness of the Private Enterprise
banking failures will probably never be fully realised until
sunrise on Judgment Day.
* * * *
The last half-yearly statement of Melbourne’s
big butchering firm, T. K. Bennett & Woolcock Ltd., pro-
vides some interesting figures. In the half-year’s trade it
handled 2301 cattle, and 68,802 sheep, besides pigs and
calves. Takings for the half, £72,349. Since the forma-
tion of the co. during boom-time, it has returned to share-
holders the whole amount of subscribed capital less 2d.
a share.
* » * *
David Syme, of the Age, is gradually yielding
to the apparently inevitable Linotype, but the prospect of
increasing the ranks of the unemployed stays his hand.
At present he is chiefly engaged in furthering his scheme
of embarking in tobacco-growing on a big scale at Lily-
dale, and in this he sees a way of introducing the Lino-
type at the Aoe office. “ Comps.” and others who will
have to make way for the machine will be drafted on to
the tobacco-farm. It appears to be the only way out of
the difficulty, and will be an object-lesson for the pro-
prietors of the remaining big Australian newspapers. By
the way, Bondurant, the imported Vic. tobacco-expert,
states, as an established fact, that wherever the citrus
thrives the soil is eminently fitted for tobacco-growing.
* * * *
Potatoes are selling in Tasmania at 375. 6d. per
ton, and cauliflowers in Melb. at Is. 2d. a doz. Go on the
land !
Melb. stock-salesmen, in view of past experi-
ences, have now a sort of trade-protection society amongst
themselves. No buyer is allowed longer than a week’s
credit. If he does not pay to time word is passed round
and the defaulter’s name is chalked up on a black-board
at each seller’s stand. The system has already wiped out
several (financially) weak carcase-men.
* * * *
The shilling restaurants in Melbourne are almost
things of the past, the threepenny-course system hav-
mg practically wiped out the higher charge. Nearly
every city pub. now goes in for catering on the 3d. racket
(glass of beer another 3d.), and a poor trade is done in
any house where 500 meals are not served daily. Four
pubs, each cater for 700 to 1500 people daily at 3d. a head,
and are making money at the price.
* * * *
The question of the amalgamation of the two
rival Manly ferry co’s will be finally settled this week.
Statement of accounts shows that the now-comparatively-
resourceless Co-operative Co. has little choice in the
matter, it having lost £1219 during the half-year. Not
possessing the fighting-power of the other co., it has
either to walk into the old co.’s mouth or be put in with a
fork.
« * » *
The bank-rate throughout Australia is 3 per
cent. Up to lately, it was 3J4 in Sydney and Brisbane,
while Melb. controlled all the rest at 3. Now the clog of
money is expected to reduce it in Melb. to 21.
* * * *
Northern inland towns hate Townsville. This
is why. After 25 per cent, duty had gone to the hated
Southern Govt., 22 tons of machinery paid £33 or 30s. a
ton to pass from the boat to Townsville station. Carriage,
£5 ; 10s. a ton lighterage ; 4s. a ton wharfage ; 2s. a ton
harbor dues, &c., &c., &c., ad infinitum.
* * * *
The new fuel-economiser shortly to be adopted
on Vic. railways, is said by department experts to solve
also the spark-danger problem. The patent should be
worth something if, as is claimed, the locomotives emit
neither sparks nor smoke and burn 20 per cent, less fuel.
* * * *
G.M.C. : Impossible to say. It is rather a
good-looking stone. The apparent disposition of the
formation to harden is not a good sign.
» * * »
B.H. Proprietary monthly div. swallows up
£48,000, which no other mine in the world is touching by
long chalks.
About 150 processes for cheaply treating sul-
phides are yearly submitted to the Proprietary. Most
come from silver cranks in various parts of the world.
At present, the Proprietary, having gathered the experi-
ence of several Hill co’s with their various concentrating
plants, is thinking out a scheme whereby it can rake a
profit off very low-grade sulphides.
* * « *
B.H. Proprietary, which hitherto has not
separated its gold and silver, exporting the metals as dor6
bullion, has now made the necessary additions to the Port
Pirie plant for the separation. Another loss to the metal-
brokers on t’other side of the world, to whom the co. in
the old days, especially before Patton came, was a mag-
nificent gold-mine.
* * * *
B.H. Proprietary is getting out plans for a big
concentrating mill; and the Central (Ashcroft’s Process
Co.) is having a plant built in S.A.
* * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply Ltd. held a special
meeting in Melb. and decided to open a London office and
register; chairman Drysdale frankly owned up to the
object (or, at any rate, the looked-for result)--the enhanc-
ing of the value of shares. There was a mild protest that
to incur an expenditure which could not yield revenue
was not what investors would regard as economy ; but
the proposal was carried hands down. Meantime, thirsty
Broken Hill pays ss. per thousand gallons for the water
(besides 20s. per annum for rent of each meter, supplied
by the co. in every case), and curses the day when it took
this brazen-faced monopoly to its arms.
* * * *
Block 14 balance-sheet, issued last week, showed
a profit for the half-year (to March 31) of £16,629 15s. sd.
Of this £lO,OOO was distributed in two divs., and the
balance (profit and loss account) was increased from
£BOB2 9s. to £13,535 10s. 2d. The co. estimated its liquid
assets on March 31 at £43,526, including £22,507 ore and
concentrates on hand, and £13,709 estimated surpluses.
Liabilities at same date, £25,668.
Block 14’s operations are now running into big
figures. For the half-year : Ore raised, 30,307 tons; ore
purchased at the mine, 19,078 tons. Ore concentrated
(included, of course, in the foregoing), 42,973 tons sul-
phides and 2912 tons second grade carbonates. At the
smelters (Pt. Adelaide) : 5790 tons sulphide concentrates,
641 tons carbonate concentrates, 3162 tons carbonate ore
from the mine, 3401 tons slimes (zinc concentrates) —2301
tons purchased ore (more than three-fourths sulphides)
and other small lines, in all 15,515 tons, yielding 4765 tons
bullion, which contained 369,3130 z. silver. This propor-
tion of sulphide ore and concentrates could not be main-
tained but for the preliminary roasting which Mr. Green-
way introduced. This last half-year the average quantity
concentrated was 1765 tons weekly; previous half, 1291
tons. Previous half-year’s smelting was 11,352 tons.
Further large additions to roasting and smelting plant
are being made.
Block 14 directors are gradually writing-off the
first-cost of the mine smelters, now out qf use : £1176
14s. 3d. comes off this half. This plant, which, a few years
ago, was valued at £lo,ooo—it was set down at £6OOO even
in Mr. Patton’s time—now appears in the balance-sheet as
an asset worth £2OO.
Probably the most important item in the Block
14 report is general-manager Greenway’s reference to
zinc recovery. All along, before he was connected with this
co., Mr. Greenway combated the prevailing opinion that
the zinc market is so unstable as not to be worth troubling
about; consequently he has delved deep into the subject.
Result: “We can produce, from certain classes of sul-
phide ore, zinc concentrates of a character which the
European zinc-smelters are able to purchase on terms that
afford us a small profit, after paying all expenses of treat-
ment and shipment. We have shipped and received the
returns for about 250 tons of these concentrates ; further
small shipments are in transit, and our ordinary concen-
trating operations now embrace their production at the
rate of 50 to 100 tons weekly. Laboratory experiments
have demonstrated that the treatment of these concen-
trates may be advantageously carried out further before
shipment, and we are steadily following up investigations
in this direction, which promise to enable us to produce a
zinc product having a value that will add to the company’s
profits.”
Satisfactory trials of the British concentrating
plant has been made. The original intention to run it on
carbonates (of which there has been satisfactory develop-
ments lately) has been abandoned, in consequence of the
new arrangement made with the Burnham syndicate.
Carbonates are, however, being extensively broken. The
arrangement with the syndicate begins on August 1.
Adelaide shareholders in the South are credited
with being responsible for the movement for the sale of
that mine. Price mentioned about a quarter of a million.
The Ashcroft people would buy; the South adjoins the
Central, now held by that co. The big Melb. broking
holders are reported to be opposed to the sale. A quarter
of a million is a high price ; but the South is a big pro-
perty—the biggest lead property on Broken Hill, exclud-
ing the Proprietary. m t ,
Value of the lode at the 615 ft. level in Block 10.
First workings: l6oz. silver, 241 per cent, lead, 26) per
cent, zinc ; second : 15oz. silver, 20 per cent, lead, 28 per
cent, zinc; third : 17oz. silver, 21 per cent, lead, 27 per
cent. zinc. A hundred feet above this the average is
about loz. silver, and 2 per cent, lead higher. Captain
Warren is still troubled with breakages in his new concen-
trating mills, leading to frequent delays.
* * * *
A comparison of the work done by the B.H.
concentrating mills during the third week in May.
North : 600 tons crude ore, producing 140 tons concen-
trates, bulking-69'2 per cent, lead, 9oz. silver, 5'4 per
cent. zinc. Block 14 : 2369 tons crude, producing 781
tons concentrates and slimes, “ of the usual fair silver and
lead assay.” Junction : 410 tons crudes, producing 100
tons first quality concentrates (62 per cent, lead, 290 z.
silver, and 9'7 per cent, zinc), 70 tons seconds, and 40 tons
slimes (heavy in zinc). South : 1379 tons crudes (30£ per
cent, lead, soz. silver, and 18 - 8 per cent, zinc), producing
506 tons concentrates (68 T per cent, lead, 7’3oz. silver,
and 7’B per cent. zinc).
• * * *
Junction North crowd whoop that their mine
is making £lOOO a week profit. If so, divs. are within
early call.
* * • •
North, after getting what was supposed to be
the Junction lode at 500 ft. deep, is driving West, still
looking for it, passing on the way through quartzite with
patches of sulphide in it. Heaven only knows why it
need be so, but it is reported that “ there is without
doubt a strong body of ore at this point which, when cut
into, should prove of considerable width.”
* * * *
The lode in the Junction North is lending itself
admirably to market operations ; intrusions occur and
the lode “ makes” again in the most convenient way. Not
that the management lends itself to the process; but
a few Broken Hill speculators govern the market
in this stock, and, being on the spot, they take care that
all these variations, common to the Broken Hill lode, are
known in the cities. The ore broken for shipment assays
38oz. silver and 38 per cent, lead—an improvement upon
what was mined at first.
The Junction is easing off its crude ore ship-
ments. For the third week in May 393 tons was sent to
Dry Creek and 191 tons to Pt. Pirie ; and of second-grade
ore 134 tons to Block 14. The product from the mill (210
tons from 410 tons ore) consisted of 100 tons giving 290 z.
silver, 62 per cent lead, and 9'7 per cent, zinc; 70 tons
seconds and 40 tons slimes—altogether an excellent result.
* * * *
A move in Pinnacles presently.
* * * *
Cobar, probably the best N.S.W. goldfield, had
the smallest average per ton for ’95, viz., lOJ^dwt.
* * * *
The Bulletin hears that a cwt. of stone (picked
out of 80 tons) from the old Pride of the Brook claim,
Stewart’s Brook, N.S.W., gave 102 oz. A hundred tons at
grass is expected to go an ounce per ton independent of
the cwt. of specimens.
* * * *
Mr. Roos, a prominent Inverell storekeeper, has
satisfactorily tested the English market for N.S.W. dia-
monds. Included in a 700-carat packet sent to London
through the 8.N.5.W., the other day, was one most flaw-
less stone of nearly three carats, a white octagon of mar-
vellous symmetry, which will lose little in cutting.
« * * *
From Hannan’s;—•“ I counted the number of
applications for exemption posted up on the board outside
the court-house to-day, and found they numbered fifty.
When one considers how this district is now split up,
there being warden’s offices at White Feather, Broad
Arrow and Kurnalpi, the number is significant. It pans
out that, excepting a few like the Boulder, all the other
shows about Hannan’s are being shepherded, and were
never intended, when taken up, for the purpose of win-
ning gold from the earth, but from poor, confiding Jay
Bull.”
* * * *
A damning fact about Hannan’s now is the
absence of English buyers. Few shows are going off, and
prospectors now only ask hundreds for what in Oct. last
they wanted thousands.
* * * *
Wired from Coolgardie: “It was thought the
Bank of England mine had demonstrated its extreme
richness; but in sinking below the 60ft. level, gold was
struck rendering previous displays insignificant. Two feet
of lode consists of about one-third gold, which occurs in
coarse particles in the stone, which is rich in fine gold
alone. Nothing equal to the bottom of this shaft has been
seen on the field. The lode covers the whole bottom of
the shaft, while 2ft. of it are wonderfully rich.” Just
think of it. One-third of a two-foot lode gold— i.e., there
is Bin. of solid gold in the lode. Things can’t go on like
this. The time must come when they’ll strike something
better than even solid gold. They will probably yet hit a
slatey formation which will be found to consist of Bank of
England £lOOO-notes.
* * * *
Great Boulder—B2s tons, 27900 z.
Also : Concentrates from Block 45 lode have
assayed from 660 z to 460 z. per ton. A bulk assay the full
width of the lode gave a return equal to 260 z. per ton. A
sample of stone showing no gold assayed lloz. 9dwt. per
ton.
* * « *
Wired that at the Golden Run mine, Cool-
gardie, there is at grass a heap of 170 tons of quartz which
will average 40oz. per ton. Forty times 170 is 6800, and
6800 oz. at £4 means £27,200. Good.
* * » *
It is estimated that 70 per cent, of the capital of
the Westralian mines floated in London has gone in pro-
motion expenses. In other words, £140,000 is spent in
proving to the public that a mine is worth £200,000.
* * * »
The big Eastern dailies are beginning to fore-
shadow the time when English co’s working Coolgardie
and Murchison mines will be in the throes of liquidation.
It would be easy to prove that J. Bull was induced to put
up his money into these wild-cats by the Australian news-
papers which now regret his amazing credulity. As the
sensational but lying wires appeared in these papers they
were carefully scissored out and sent to London, where
they were reprinted in prospectuses, many of which were
made up almost entirely of clippings from the big Sydney
and Melb. papers, the “greatness” and truthfulness of
which papers were emphasised by the promoters. No
wonder some Westralian journalists have become rich
enough to retire from the Press ! The Eastern dailies
have innocently played their part in the W.A. boom
without participating in the boodle.
* • * *
London West Australian Review estimates
W.A. divs. paid out of “ mining profits ” in ’95 at £130,600,
and divs. from “financial and exploration companies” at
£512,616. £130,000 from the mines and £512,000 from
romancing about the mines ! Total mining divs. in ’94
and ’95, £199,000, of which two mines contributed
£178,000 (Bayley’s, £130,000; Great Boulder, £48,000) ;
total divs. from first-robber syndicates, £568,000 —
in other words, for every £1 of dividend extracted from
W.A. in gold, more than £3 are got by market-booming
and market-rigging.
• * * *
The opinion of an old and experienced Austral-
asian digger who knows Westralia well, expressed to a
Bulletin man, is that W.A. will never go bung for the
practical miner, who will always find a decent return for
honest and systematic work. The field for prospecting is
a tremendous one, and even in the best-known country,
where the richest gold runs in small veins in conjunction
with alpiost barren larger bodies, small parties who can
handle tools, and who know their way about underground,
will step in after big Hinglish companies have gone pop,
and fatten on the remains.
* * * *
Coolgardie should have been named Salina.
Salt everywhere—salt in the earth, salt in the water, and
many of the mines are much salted.
W.A. wire hummers should not grow so enthusi-
astic over first crushings, for is it not written that the
first shall be last ?
Wild-cats will surely destroy the M.I.C.E.
business now flourishing in W.A.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie : “ Splendid specimens found at the
Kurnalpi Consols mine. The stone is white quartz.”
“Too much white quartz” is the cruel, cold-blooded
truth about almost the whole country.
* • * *
Melbourne Australasian tells of a Maldon
(Vic.) man who went away to Coolgardie to seek his for-
tune. He didn’t find any reef out there that was good
enough to pay expenses, but the man who bought the
house he had occupied at Maldon found a profitable lode
in the back garden. The irony of it.
* * * *
Mr. De Rose, one of the pioneers of the Boulder
group of mines at Hannan’s, had a big “ send-off ” by
the Kalgoorlie Club. “The opinion was generally ex-
pressed that to the Brookman brothers and De Rose the
present great prosperity of the field was due. They stuck
to the Boulder group of mines when all the world cried
they were no good, until they had made their own for-
tunes and the fortunes of thousands of others.” The
Bulletin wants to say something on behalf of the world.
At that particular time, as far as any man could see, these
mines were no particular good. The writer happened to
be on them, and saw that they were spending many thou-
sands of pounds, and had no ore in sight that would pay
to crush. Many months after the Great Boulder was
placed in London the shares went down to 55., while men
who saw the mine would not give that modest amount for
a dozen of them. Suddenly the Boulder struck a rich
formation where it never expected to find one, and has
since become a noble mine. That is the simple truth,
which lots of people who know all about it are carefully
trying to conceal. Nothingsucceeds like luck. There are
hundreds of men in the same districts who have done far
more heroic work than the Boulder crowd, but, having
had less luck, they are never heard of.
* « « «
Peculiar that the S.A. Govt, refuses to publish
geologist Brown’s special three-months’ sniffing report on
the W.A. fields? Brown is a trifle too cautious for
Adelaide boomers, which perhaps explains.
* « * *
Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.) is in the curious
position of having to prospect its old workings to pick up
the run of stone yielding so well to the L.T. Extended.
Theory is that in ’76 this make of stone was missed in the
eager development of the main shute, and should it exist,
the Long Tunnel will have a clear 1000 ft. of new country
to work —which would mean many more years’ life to this
“dandy” div.-payer.
* * * *
Last Chance United, Ballarat, past half milled
8640 tons for 26160 z. 16dwt.—rather a nasty drop on 17,879
tons for 36470 z. 3dwt. for the previous period. Divs. also
pinched from £3500 to £lOOO. Given a couple of dwt. im-
provement in the large body of stone met with in the
north drive, the Last Chance may be expected to do better
this term.
* * » *
The disappointing United Brothers, Glen Wills
(Vic.), at last seems in a fair way to pay occasional divs.
Past half’s milling, 3833 tons for 25530 z. 9dwt., and also
119 tons concentrates to net £l4 16s. per ton. Profit,
£2572 9s. Bd., used to wipe out an 8 p.c. loan from an ex-
chairman, so the co. starts the new term with a clean
sheet. Pretty well all the free-milling stone is exhausted,
and the larger quantity of refractory ore put through has
heavily increased concentrating ex’s on the previous half;
while to mine the stuff has cost considerably more—in-
creases that are not encouraging to buyers of these shares,
inflated to £2, but which have lately eased to under
20s. A late 360-ton crushing has given 3270 z., 250 z.
from plates, and 15 tons concentrates.
* • * *
Sir Henry Loch, Ballarat (Vic.), 311 oz. 15dwt.
from 568 tons, speaks well of an early div.-cut. Stone
chiefly from the 1400 and 1509 ft. levels, and averages 1
to 2ft. wide. Tributors monopolise the No. 2 shaft work-
ings. Co. had enough cash for a div. last week, but pre-
ferred to create a reserve with it. Milling dirt in sight
estimated to go £1 in divs., and there is still a large area
to expose. The Loch’s luck has given a fillip to the old
Band, which any day now may cut the former’s run of
stone, and send its shares up to extravagant prices.
* * * *
To date, North Prentice, Rutherglen (Vic.),
owes its backers £59,000, but the prospects look good
enough for divs. before the year closes. Gutter over
400 ft. wide, and opened up 1000 ft. without meeting the
eastern reef. When properly drained, there is a big area
ready for pannelling, promising good things. Gold
won past half, £1398.
» * » *
If Victoria keeps up her present rate of progress
throughout the year, the gold-yield for ’96 will he 100,000
oz. ahead of that for ’95. The increase for the first quarter
of ’96 was almost as large as the whole yield of Westralia
for the same period.
* * * *
Companies are being floated daily in Launceston
on the strength of good reports from the W. Coast, and
the shares are rushed by the public. Melbourne money
is coming over freely ; but for this Tas. would never
stand the strain. The Hercules mine has now a
large litter. Some of her pups : North Hercules, South
Hercules, East Hercules, West Hercules, Central Her-
cules, King Hercules, Queen Hercules, New Hercules,
Hercules Consols, Hercules Extended, Barlen Hercules,
and Hercules Number One.
* * * *
Anything bearing the name of Hercules on its
prospectus, even if “ Extended” unto seventy times seven,
and as far removed from the Hercules as anybody can
remember, is strong enough just now to agitate the Tas.
share-market. Later on some of ’em will smell strong
enough to kill at 16,000 miles range.
* * * *
Tasmania g.m., 4120 tons for 3360§0z.
* * * *
Tas. gold-stocks, generally, are down; silver
ditto up. When the little silver-boom is dead and buried
gold shares will arise from the tomb and enjoy a flutter.
By the way, when Lefroy field booms Beaconsfield slumps,
and vice-versa.
* » * *
The Tasmania, Beaconsfield, is calling tenders
for timber for the new shaft to be commenced shortly. A
rumor was afloat that the mine is to be lighted by elec-
tricity. At present she consumes about 1000 candles per
24 hours, which means, roughly, a yearly light-bill ol
£lOOO.
* * * *
The water from the Tasmania mine pulls the
nails out of a pair of boots in something less than no time.
A drip on to an iron rail in one of the drives cut it clean
through in a few months. The greatest flow comes from
the West face in the low level—72oft. Recently the
pumps stopped work for a small repair. In three hours
the water rose four stopes high. Taking into considera-
tion the mighty rushing river she has to cope with, the
Tasmania is a long way the most wonderful mine in Aus-
tralasia.
* * * *
<£loo,ooo came to Melb. the other day for in-
vestment in Mt. Lyell stock.
• • * *
A Bulletin correspondent : —Since the opening
of Fermoy (N.Q.)field £26,000 worth of opal has been sold
locally, besides parcels taken away. Lately opals have
been found at greater depths, some very large finds be-
tween 20ft. and 40ft. —in some cases going through two
bottoms. The other day some of the most brilliant stone
yet seen was unearthed at 25ft., and at 28ft. was found a
solid piece of opal weighing 21b. and containing streaks of
excellent gem. About 250 men are on the field and have
in hand perhaps £4OOO worth of good opal.
* * * *
The boss was going through the store-book.
“ Seems to me those chaps you started sinking on that
leader are using a lot of fuse,” said he to his shift-boss.
“ See here—Monday 5 coils, Tuesday 7 coils, Wednesday
10 coils, Friday 13 coils—why, they must be firing all day !
We’d better go over and have a look to-morrow.” Next
day the shift-boss reports : “ Those chaps came to me,
said they couldn’t sink no further—said the fuse wasn’t
long enough. I went over; found they used a coil to
each hole and lit the hole, and scooted. The shaft was
deeper than the fuse, so they couldn’t sink no more, they
said. I showed the idiots how to light their holes.”
“ We’d better go over now,” said the boss. When they
got there they found the two “sinkers” on their stomachs,
with candles tied to long whip-sticks, trying to light their
holes; one had succeeded, t’other hadn’t. They were
just in time to pull t’other back from the edge.


gd
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION.
ri HIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Blight,
J Injlanted Byes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the Sight. By post, 3s. per bottle.
Solely by H. A. ItOSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHRUHH.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS RIDING
OFFICE BUSH
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
AND EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
KXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The. Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE unrivalled. patterns free by post. inspection invited.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS. SYDNEY.
TYPHOID :
Dr. Gresswell, Chairman Melb.
Health Board, says : “ Out and
out Jeffery’s are the best fil-
ters.” Dr. Springthorpe, Melb.,
says: “Ordinary filters are
powerless against, germs so
small as ti/i>hoitl, t/rrmx ,■
use a JEFFERY FI LTER.’ ’
The Jeffery filter principle
is highly recoin mender/
by the President of
N.S.W. Health Board.
Write or call on
J. PEAR DON,
4 Bonrl-st., Svdnev;
or, J. JEKEERY,
89 Sprinif-st., Mell>.
Prices, 15s. 6d. to 13.
fg
USE A
Jeffery
Filter.
TAKE NOTICE !
There are many kinds of everything ; hut only
one is
THE BEST OF ITS KIND.
BILLY TEA
IS THIS BEST TEA-
GRAMMA
IS THE BEST DIGESTIVE E> "h'
EAT and DRINK THESE and you CAN T
GO WRONG.
SOCIETY
COOLALTA
The Rev. Lush, of Auckland, M.L. (The
Bulletin isn’t personally acquainted with Rev.
Lush, but it takes off its hat to him and meta-
phorically drops threepence in the plate of his far-
off tabernacle) :
The first thing needed to check the growing immorality
of the town is the re-organisation or suppression of all
Bands of Hope, Christian Endeavorers, and every society
which takes young people out at night. The religious
bodies are seriously to blame for keeping nurseries for
prostitutes, as many of these societies have, in cases, been.
That is a section of the naked and unadorned
truth, though it is quite unusual to hear it from a
parson. A year or two ago, by the way, another
Maorilander wrote to this paper on the same sub-
ject. “ Please send me some indecent photo-
graphs,” he said ; “I am tired of the girl who was
led astray while coming home from choir-practice.”
The photos, were not sent, and The Bulletin has
never quite decided what the writer was driving
at, but, in a general way, he and Parson Lush
seem to be of the same mind. And the world in
general is also getting dead-tired of the girl who
“fell” on her way home from the choir or the
Band of Hope or the Christian Endeavor.
* * * *
Why does not some common-sense legisla-
tor move to amend the seduction laws? If
the action for seduction cannot be founded on
something more reasonable than the fact of wash-
SHUDD EPSOME.
“It’s terrible, Mick, to hear you swear like that."
“Call that swearing ! Why, look here, Jimmy, when my bullocks sticks me up I curse that
much I fairly make myself shudder.”
ing up the father’s cups and saucers it ought to go.
If all the common-sense legislators in Australia
get on a rush in this direction there’s no fear of
anyone being hurt in the crush.
* » * *
North Melbourne police-court is a sort of
haven of refuge and solatium for all sorts of sex
cases, from the maintenance-cabbage to the affilia-
tion-cauliflower. Various reasons have been given
for this partiality, but the cynic is apt to see,
from an incident in the Prahran court last week,
the true causa-causans. After hearing evidence in
an affiliation case, the Justices made an order for
Bs. per week and allowed £1 Is. costs. The solicitor
immediately arose and informed the Court that in
every case of this sort the N. Melb. Court allowed
,£3 3s. The plea had sufficient weight to induce
the Prahran beaks to split the difference. The
Bulletin now wants to know whether the North
Melb. Court is chosen by the complainant or by
her solicitor.
* * * *
W. J. Nott writes to Adelaide Register
suggesting a re-naming of Australian provinces.
New South Wales he wants shortened to “Wales”;
Queensland is to apply to the South only, and
N.Q. is to be called “Beatrice.” Westralia is
sub-divided into “ Arthur ” and “ Alberta ” ; and
S.A. into “Albert” and “Alfred.” Mr. Nott is
evidently entitled to crawl on all-fours with the
other British gentleman who, when Duke Clarence
visited Australia, begged a glass of dirty water
from the chambermaid who tended his bedroom,
and drank it! Of the two, The Bulletin rather
prefers the other British gentleman. His crawl
stopped on the premises.
* * * *
George Ashton has an article in the Studio
on the Victorian Art Academy, comparing Melb.
art “ bosses ” with those of Sydney, much to the
disadvantage of the former. George’s brother
Julian (a practising artist, by the way) is one of
the art-bosses of Sydney, and, being the only real
technicalist among the N.S.W. National Gallery
trustees, is Sydney’s most powerful art-patron —
and herein lies a substantial artists’ grievance.
Parkes’s picture, painted by Mr. Julian Ashton,
hangs in N.S.W. National Gallery. Dibbs’s pic-
ture, by Percy Spence, also hangs there—it was
placed there while Dibbs himself was in
power as Premier. Hunt’s portrait of old Jack
Robertson, tendered to the Gallery as a gift, was
denied admission on the alleged ground that it was
artistically unworthy. But who passed judgment
on its artistic worth, and on that of Julian Ash-
ton’s Parkes —also on Julian Ashton’s unattractive
“Prospector”? Perhaps the painter did not sit
on the tribunal himself, but he was of the tribunal
and had a seat at the back of the tribunal. No
court should hear the case of one of its own
members. “Old Jack’s” picture, refused admis-
sion to the Gallery, has now found a resting-place
in N.S.W. Parliament Houses. You see Old Jack
is dead. But if Old Jack were alive and in office
as Colonial Secretary, and his friends sought to
hang Hunt’s picture of him in the Gallery, how
long, do you think, would the trustees resist ?
*** . *
There are no nudities in the winter exhi-
bition of the Victorian Artists’ Society, opened
this week. Vic. painters can’t afford to pay
models, and handsome women who will sit for the
love of art are few. Hence the plurality of gloomy
“Evening” landscapes in the show.
*.* * *
The married woman possessed of separate
property and a little dishonesty has hitherto
eluded the meshes of “attachment of the person,”
fraud-summonses, company calls’proceedings, and
other privileges of the gaolable male. But Vic.
J u . st i C e Hodges has found in some musty law
books a lasso which will catch the indebted female
who wishes to fly to Westralia. It is now a kind
of cousin-german to the ne exeat colonia, but
formerly, as the capias, was an ordinary way of
starting legal proceedings, as Fielding and his
creations could testify. It was practically abolished
by the statutes for the abolition of imprisonment
for debt. Whether the Judge’s law will hold
water is another matter.
Mrs. BROWN-POTTER, as Charlotte Corday.
Photo, by Falk, N.Y.
In Judge Windeyer’s absence, N.S.W.
Divorce Court appears to give fuller scope to the
ordinary practising barristers; and in connection
with that fact the question has been started : Can
a R.C. barrister plead for a petitioner in a suit for
divorce? Of course, the question is one of con-
science and ecclesiastical discipline, not of law.
*****
From The Bulletin’s Devil’s Dictionary
of Synonyms : Adulterer —the Lodger.^
Although Gov. Hampden has been “ out”
since Nov. last, it was only the other day that a
thoughtful Sydney mother let the public know she
had remembered to christen her baby “ Henry
Robert.” It was usual for Gov. Carington to
have a dozen a month called after him, so that
loyalty must be waning, or something.
M‘Kay, a smart
office - thief, has just
been caught in Melb.
His modus was to hang
round with a sheet of
brown paper and a
piece of string, enter
an office when the pro-
prietor had stepped out
to see a man, wrap up
anything handy and
val uable in a neat par-
cel, and stroll off with
an air of conscious in-
tegrity. He invaded
deserted offices with
the assistance of a
skeleton-key, and has
hinted to the detec-
tives that once at least
he discovered materials
for quite a sensational
divorce. That office-
owner let him go with
a blessing. This will
make city men careful.
* *
Rev. Dixon, of
Warrnambool, opposes
womanhood - suffrage.
“ The angels in heaven
would blush if they
saw a woman usurping
the functions of man.”
But will the angels
specify where the func-
tions of man end and
those of woman begin?
And how do the angels
“ perform ” when they
see a man usurping the
functions of women, as
parsons often do ? The
extraordinary unanim-
ity of opinion between
the angels and the par-
sons suggests the idea
that the latter raise
their own angels.
* *
One Leslie gave
himself up as a biga-
mist in Melbourne last
week. He has done
this, he says, to escape
the curtain-lectures of
his second Mrs. Les’ie, which had become intoler-
able. What is the mighty engine of the law
beside a weak woman’s javv ?
* * * *
The criminal case against those historic
Melbourne J’sP. has collapsed :
Poor Justice ! all know well she’s blind,
And many are surprised,
On taking careful note, to find
She’s often paralysed.
Prof. Harper, 8.D., the dour pietist who
runs Melb. Presbyterian Ladies’ College (whence
sprang Melba) the other Saturday enjoyed the
felicity of seeing one of his old pupils carry off the
local Lady Cyclists’ Road Race in pronounced
bloomers. Which fact will no doubt be proudly
chronicled in the next prospectus of the college.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley’s de-
cision in the H. B. Muglisto fair affords
scope for a delicate hair-s pitting argu-
ment. The C.J. held that although he
could disbar Mr. Mugliston as a N.S.W.
barrister and admit him to the roll of
solicitors he had not the power to disbar
him as an English barrister, Mr. Muglis-
ton having been called to the English
bar before being called in N.S.W. The
fact that an Irish barrister had been in
similar circumstances admitted to the
N.S.W. solicitors’ roll a short time ago
the Chief Justice set down to an oversight
on the part of the Court. But the argu-
ment which his Honor will soon be asked
to consider is, that under the Act the
Court may, and must, if he presses, disbar
Mugliston as a N.S.W. barrister and
admit him as a N.S.W. disbarred bar-
rister to the N.S.W. solicitors’ roll. There
may be reasons why a barrister should not
take the rank of a competent solicitor by
mere transfer, but these are apart from
the intention of the Act under which the
Court works.
* * *
“The experts in the Dean case
were wrong,” said Premier Reid the other
day. The experts were right— right on the
evidence, right on the probabilities, right
on everything but the issue. Dr. Sydney
Jones and Dr. Manning reasoned logi-
cally, and were wrong. Lawyer Rogers
guessed illogically, and was right. In the
Dean case, two and two did not make four
—they made seven and a-half. But all
the same, N.S. Wales is not going to sub-
stitute trial by instinct for trial by reason ;
it still intends to declare that two and
two make four and no more or less.
The Dean case “experts” pulled up the line
which wobbled and got no fish ; the non-“ ex-
pert P u |] U P, || ne 'J 110 * 1 <hdn t wobble,
and found the flathead. Cause why: the lines
were tangled. But every fisherman m the country
still goes for the jigging line just the same,
*
The N.S.W. Destitute Unemployed Relief
Committee reports that it has collected for the
benefit of the poor =£l4B Os. lid. Of this, com-
mission to collectors absorbed <£l2 Os. lOd. ; meals
for collectors, £9 14s. ; and secretary’s salary and
other trifles made up the expenses to £49 7s. lid.
The unemployed received exactly £l7, and £Bl
13s. remains on hand. Considering these figures,
it certainly seems as if the movement wasn’t so
much to relieve the unemployed as to relieve the
secretary and the collectors. “ Never give money
in the street,” says the methodical charity organisa-
AN UNDETERMINED
SUICIDE.
“ Be aisy, Pat, and you've bruk the
lookin'-glass I How did yez
do it?”
“Shure, an ’ I tried to shoot meself
in the glass, an’ bad luck to it,
I missed meself!"
tion person, “ because the applicants are oft* o
undeserving persons.” And thereupon
charity spends so much money in finding ou«
whether the applicant is deserving or not, tli»
when he proves to be deserving there is practical! •
nothing left for him. It is, by the way, a beaut
fully satirical fact that this £ 118 odd abotr
mentioned included a from H.b
Gov. Hampden, who only the other day strong!)
cautioned the community against indiscriminate
charity.


CHA RLEMO'NTS
STUDIOS
492 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
ill ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Eirin of Ciiaki.kmont & Co. confine
tlieuiM' Ives to the execution of the highest
cluib of
Photography Oi)!y.
MATRIMONY.
IF you wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult,
us. Out- varied and extensive clientele enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stationsof life. Local
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecy. All communications eonlidential. Inhumation
sent free to bonn-julc applications. U rite lor pamphlet
and rules. •
H'chloii's .llatminonial Association!
6V PHILLIPS STKEKT, SYDNEY.
{Next Hotel Yfetropoie).
One of the pleasantest, coolest, most
central and best-appointed restaurants in Sydney
is the Manhattan Dining Room, situated in the
basement of the great Equitable Building in
(ieorge-street, Sydney. It is in the middle of the
busiest portion of Sydney, and is in every respect
a high-class establishment with good cooking, good
attendance, a lavish bill of fare, and luxurious
fittings and furnishings.*
The ordinary business man’s most critical
difficulty just now is how to get his money in. In
the recovery of debts, especially in circumstances
of difficulty or delicacy, Holds worth & Co., 101
Swanston-street, Melbourne, meet with singular
success.*
JAMES KIPMAN, Sroc€r, Wipe apd Spirit Mcrcbapt,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR.
WHISKIES.
Walker’s Extra Special ... ... ... 4/3 per bot.
„ Ordinary ... ... • 4/- ~
Robertson’s XXX... ... ... ... 4/3 ~
„ X 4/-
Usher’s Special Reserve ... ... ... 3 9 „
~ Glenlivet O. V.G. ... 36 „
Buchanan’s (House of Commons) (white seal) 4 8 ~
Dawson's XXX Special ... ... ■ 3 9 „
Brown’s 4-Crown ... ... ... 3 9 ~
Glenkinchie Special (9 years old) ... 25,'- pel' jral.
J. K. Special (S years old) 24- >,
Very Old Highland ... '--I- >•
Bullock, Bade & Co’s 2o - ~
d
Other Spirits. I'.eei>, el«\, will lie udvert ised in next, week’s issue.
JAMES KIDMAN,
OXFORD STREET. GEORGE s MARKET STREETS, SYDNEV; UILLITER STREET, LONDON
Bulletin fable : One day a great and rich
official was walking alone in the wilderness, com-
muning with nature and allowing his thoughts to
dwell upon charity and kindred subjects, when he
came upon a poor fellow who lay upon the ground
famishing for water and food. The sufferer told
his story with much difficulty. He was a bush-
man, had long been without sustenance, and was
like to die if help were not offered him. “My
poor fellow ! ” said the great official. “ I object to
spontaneous charity. The man who puts his hand
in his pocket to assist unfortunate beggars offends
against society by helping to keep alive an impro-
vident and useless class. But lam not a hard or
an ungenerous man—l will recommend your case
to the consideration of the Charity Organisation
Society immediately upon my return to town.”
Thereupon the great man went his way, followed
by the blessings of the bushman.
» * » *
A May truism— “After the day comes the
knight.”
* * * *
At the recent Lytton (Q.) encampment an
elaborately-millinered officer pulled his charger
backwards on top of himself, when saluting, and
had to be carried off the field. To a stranger from
’Ome it was a new sensation to see a charge of
cavalry followed by some half-dozen orderlies,
with all their work set to reap the harvest of hats
lost en route,
» * * *
The Victorian Government, after all, has
determined not to abolish the honorary magis-
trate system, but it has evolved a plan which
heaps contempt upon selfpaid - beakdom, and
goes far to flatten out bench-packing. It has
appointed a few additional honoraries, but a noti-
fication has been issued that in future a Jaypee
can officially attend only at the court nearest to
his residence, and that he has no official locus
elsewhere. Consequently, if the nearest beak
can’t be “ squared ” there is nothing to be done.
• • * •
A case decided in England in 1852, and
known as R. v. Gerber, is interesting reading in
view of the bungle made by the Vic. Chief Justice
and Crown law officials over the Rapiport business.
In this case A, B, C, and D were indicted together
and pleaded. Before they were given in charge to
the jury, the Court allowed D to be removed from
the dock and examined as a witness against his
associates. The Judge said: “D is not on his
trial, and, therefore, no objection that his evidence
is inadmissible can prevail. . . That the witness
under the present circumstances is admissible has
been settled for more than a century.” So it
would appear that, despite the protests of counsel,
the Boulters’ evidence was perfectly admissible in
the Rapiport case, since they were not even
“ charged ” at the trial.
* * * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph, leader-writing
on “ Moral Poisoners,” defines the indecent in art
to be an exhibition “ representing scenes which,
if made up by the living bodies therein pourtrayed,
would call for prosecution.” Is this so? If so,
why are not the trustees and managers of public
gardens, museums, and galleries prosecuted and
sent to serve with the lately-convicted picture-
seller Green? What about “The Boxers”?
What about the “Venus de Medici”? What
about a thousand and one canvases known to
everybody? If living bodies were to pose in
gardens and galleries after the manner of these
statues and pictures they would admittedly render
themselves liable to prosecution. Hence there is a
difference between what living bodies may do and
what statues and pictures may be made to do, and
the definition which places both on one plane is
itself a sort of “moral poison.”
* * * *
The tick-trouble bids fair to dwarf the
rabbit-plague into insignificance. From the
Archer to the Bloomfield (N.Q.) are now only
remnants of herds which once numbered thou-
sands. A thousand bullocks were put into a pad-
dock on the Lower Burdekin, and in a few weeks
40'» survivors were marched off to be boiled down.
If driven the cattle die ; if left in the infected
paddocks they die also. The sweat-glands seem
to be completely destroyed, and the cattle are
often afflicted with panting like a dog. Horses
have been affected of late, and even human beings
are not exempt from the attacks of the latest of
Australia’s blessings.
In a case heard in Brisbane Supreme Court
the other day, in which the trustee had died with-
out leaving an heir, it was explained that deceased
had met his death by the explosion of a cask of
rum on which he was sitting. Old Jamaica could
never hold a candle to the real Mackay.
* * * *
Two recent Brisbane police-court cases.
Blank, indecently assaulting his own daughter,
nine months’ imprisonment. Dash, a youth,
stealing £B, nothing else known against him, 12
months’ imprisonment. The old contrast!
* * * *
Permanent (side) way. Melb. stranger :
“ How many miles is it from Melbourne to Syd-
ney?” Sydney railway official: “ 000. ” M.S.
(consulting railway - guide): “You’re wrong, I
think. It says here 576.’’ S.R.O. : “ That’s
actual mileage ; you must include rocking from
side to side between Wodonga and Melbourne —
that tots up the odd couple of dozen miles.”
A shudder-
some kind of
dairy was drop-
ped upon lately
by the Ballarat
(vie.) police.
The milk was
found stored in
an old shoe-trunk
along with a
piece of corned
beef in the last
stage of decay.
The shoe-trunk
was kept in the
yard, and the
yard was several
inches deep in
filth. The rest
of the scene was
in keeping with
the shoe-trunk
and own brother
to the corned
beef. A fever-
patient had for-
merly resided
along with the
milk and the
beef, but he was
now recovered,
and defendant
pleaded that out
of her eight cus-
tomers only one
was laid up at
present with
typhoid. Then
she was fined
just £5 and costs
—yet the same
law sends an
aged vagrant up
for six months’
hard.
* * * •
By the tick plague in Queensland nearly
all the dairy cattle have been killed around Towns-
ville, and the people of that town have to use pre-
served and goats’ milk.
* *
What was the steamer Byron’s registered
tonnage, and how much coal had she aboard when
she went bung ?
* * * »
Lord Brassey has developed into a bathetic
blarneyer since his arrival in Victoria. Whenever
he is called upon to address an audience he does
A QUEEN’S-BIRTHDAY INCIDENT.
(Her “ Ladyship” teas receiving the congratulations of a domestic.)
“ Oh, mum ! I’m so glad you’re a real lady now.”
“Well, Maria, I hope I have always been a lady.”
“ Well, yes, mum; but nobody could ever call you it before.”
so with his mouth full of butter, so to speak. The
other day he remarked that—
Since he had had the honor of residing in Victoria he
had seen that which made him feel a great admiration for
the high ideals of life, the thirst for knowledge, the love
of the beautiful, the taste for culture and the arts, and
the enjoyment of authors of the best kind, which he saw
widely displayed in Melbourne.
And not one of his audience guffawed, probably
not one grinned quietly, at this outrageous irony !
High ideals of life ? Guvmentouse and the Austral
Salong. Thirst for knowledge ? Yes, concerning
the horse that will win the Cup. Love of the
beautiful ? Quite so—in the way of legs. Taste
for culture and the arts? Ask the artists struggling
to make a living in Melbourne. Enjoyment of
authors of the best kind? Book-Arcade Cole
alone sold 7000 copies of “ Trilby ” in a few
weeks. He has not sold as many copies of
Thackeray, Balzac, and George Meredith put
ANY DAY IN THE CITY.—“LINE IN TEERUPTED !”
together in a year. Baron Brassey’s butter of
flattery tastes of vitriol now and then.
* * * »
A Home Reading Union is one of the
swell institutions of Melbourne. Some people can
never do anything on their own account. They
can’t even read a book now and then without
banding themselves together into a society for the
purpose, with president, vice-president, secretary,
and so on. Some of these days the Mutual Nose-
Blowing Union will be one of the most fashionable
clubs connected with Melbourne sassiety.
“Running my eye down the
boarders’-list of a big Melb. hostelry,
I was struck by the number of men,
whom I knew to be single, occupying
double rooms, and all on the top floor.
They are mostly artists. Why is this
thus ? ’’—Wanderer.
THE NEW PHOTOGRAPHY.
To Rontgen’s process science kneels,
But, shade of Mother Hubbard !
Suppose its prying eye reveals
The skeleton in the cupboard !
B.E.
PORTENTS.
I fear, my white-loined sisters, those murmurs in
our halls;
I see unleavened sign-cakes in every vagrant’s
hand,
Strange smearings on the mangoes, and writings
on the walls,
And eerie-looking Brahmans are traversing the
land.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Flanger : In short, you want us to publish in
book-form all the things we dare not print in The Bulle-
tin. Haven’t we told you we’ve already been in gaol?
Jones: After all, that Ballade is much hackneyed:
“ because she’s not built that way.” Douglas T. : You
verge on the line too closely F.A.M. : We don’t know,
but would advise to write to Macquarie River —say, to the
Mining Registrar there M.J.G. : You stole the verses
from a Bulletin years old and now want us to
print and pay for them The Glen: Little Ped-
dlingtonish and might lead to trouble Your
Pen : Why is it wickeder to get drunk on Sunday than
Monday? M. 0. A. : Try again. Neither good enough
F.C.T. : Ditto ; it’s no use sparring with your theme.
You must speak from the heart if you want to speak to it.
Yuigibbar : You would have made a good aboriginal
Ossian ; but Ossian hardly suits B R. J.L. : Write to the
N.S.W. Lands Department M.A.B. : “On the B”
excellent C.C. : Onion item noted G. 8.: It is not
necessarily an unfriendly act to forge a man’s name, for
the bank and not the ostensible signer has to pay when
the forgery is found out. All the same, it is most un-
businesslike to forge Venus : A chief reason for the
Chow’s popularity with the fair sex is that he lets them
bully him, while the white man won’t stand it, and even
does a little bullying on his own account. “A woman
likes to find her master ” ; she also likes to find her slave.
Fossicker : Small point—long yarn H.J.S. : Mere
horror O.E.P. : You’re a very dull reformer. The
world nowadays wants its reforms well sauced and chopped
up fine :....H.O.P. (W.A.) : Such a humorless man has no
business to be called Hopkins Hero : Drivel Mabel:
What’s the point in “Ted”? L. 8..: Unpromising
crudity P. The Hermit: When young men or women
want to become Salvation Army officers, “ they have,”
The Bulletin is told, “to prove that, for two years, they
have been all through the regular mill of open-airs and
break-of-day knee-drills. Then they, their friends, and
local officers have to answer fully 250 questions on every
point of character and health, one being ‘ Are you en-
gaged ? ’ After many months in the training-home they
may be shunted.” Noncom ” : Re “God Save the
Queen ” being sung in the Anglican Church on Sunday,
you overlook that it is in the Hymn Book, No. 541
W. (W.A.) : Thanks 8.0.G.H. : Reid received a Cob-
den medal in ’79 for some essays on Freetrade Amy
K. : No, it really won’t do Cleves : Good C.L. :In
the hands of most people, even after six months’ pistol-
practice, road-metal would be a weapon much more
dangerous to the object aimed at L.A. : The danger or
otherwise of giving chloroform in any particular case
really cannot be accurately forecast. The idea that ether,
as an anaesthetic, is safer than chloroform, may or may
not be well founded : the fact appears to be that though
more people die on the operating-table under chloroform
than ether, many people die from the indirect effects of
ether in the shape of bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia.
Dulce : It is not so easy to stop at the decree nisi as
you imagine, for your husband has legal power to take up
the running at that stage if you, after gaining a decree
nisi, decline to complete the transaction. A couple of
years ago Judge Windeyer, in Dickson v. Dickson, where
the husband had obtained a decree nisi and would go no
further, decided that the respondent wife was entitled to
move for the decree absolute E.B.A. : Your lament-
able building society already dealt with H.H. : “Old
Soaker” not good enough J.K. : O.K Jim: The
“ low wind ” isn’t going to “moan among the trees” in
this paper, anyhow. We only moan among the trees once
a year or so Tablelander : You argue that because the
S.A. women in democratic constituencies voted the demo-
cratic ticket and the women in Fat Man constituencies
voted the Fat Woman ticket, therefore the woman voter
has no opinions of her own. Bosh ! The working woman,
like the working man, voted democratic because it was
her interest to do so. The rich woman, like the rich man,
voted the Ass ticket because it was her interest to do so.
And you reason that a woman can’t have an opinion of
her own unless it is one that goes contrary to her inter-
ests. What man has an opinion of his own by your
logic? HSsop: Wolf-and-lamb fables played out.
Lamb has grown to be a sheep by this time.
Jurisconsult: “Mistaken Identity” dismally weak
in plot, and nobody’s identity is mistaken Potato
(or something like that): Tales whose moral is that
“ the Almighty has been at it again ” are the copyright of
The Bulletin’s old-time contributor “ Polype.” M. M.
and Co. (Sydney) : Thanks E.S. (Sydney): Too thin.
Bookmakers are not built that way N. 8.8. (West M.):
Beloved friend, where do they sell such shirts? Meros :
When you send along a joke with the joke left out, the
results are very unsatisfactory Nemo : The row between
Jim and the policeman is a feeble and ordinary shindy
J. Enright: Flatly refuse space for message “ entrusted
to you by Divine Providence.” If Providence sends along
the message direct, it will be put in large type on the front
page Mugwump : Text inappropriate. “ A man shall
not utter vain knowledge.” Nothing said about a politician
uttering complete ignorance J. A.: Nothing remarkable
about Chinaman’s letter. Plenty of white Australians
write just like that Novice (Coolgardie): One verse
herewith —
Where Sir John Forrest the country does rule,
And the way that he does it is something blanky cruel ;
But he has been educated by the Old School
For suffering Western Australia.
Wy. (Vic.): Uni. for print ; “Valley” dull j.H. :
“ Lay of the Kelly Gang ” received. Did you hear that
dull thud? H.M.M. : Poem apparently smitten with a
consumption, and with an extreme burning, and with the
sword, and with blasting, and with mildew ; and deserv-
ing every bit of it H.A. (Bega) : Hardly up W.A.
(Hobart): Cleverish, but C.C. : Nicely told; but
not enough pith for space Bures : Doubtful Scott :
Some force ; too familiar. Try an English mag P.C. :
Not strong enough H. : “ If Ever” doubtful T.W.S.
(Mt. Vic.): Not up W.A.M. (Dunedin): Ditto
C.C.B. (Syd.) : Small humor Dart : Bill, who just
missed the big sweep, has met this paper frequently.
Sometimes he disguises himself as Jim Bendoc : You
can’t alter the fact that he was a big, strong, hulking,
lazy, fat person who admitiedty got an easy living by
selling filthy pictures on the quiet J.M. : Sorry
cannot now obtain the copies, and it’s against
our rule to reprint in such cases Lincoln : Ex-Chief
Justice Lilley, having accepted a title from Queen Vic-
toria, wears Queen Victoria’s livery, and is, therefore, not
privileged to talk republicanism. The title came to Mr.
Lilley of his own free choice, and it is, therefore, as un-
seemly for him to talk extreme radicalism as it would be
for a Guvmentouse flunkey in silk stockings to say nasty
things about the Governor, his employer Number
Two : Exactly. Painters don’t paint “to educate the
public.” They paint chiefly because they like painting.
No do surgeons operate “ purely in the interests of suffer-
ing humanity’’—the very best of them operate, apart
from monetary reasons, mainly because they love their
art, and like, as a matter of egotism, to see the men
whom they have severely carved walking about the streets
nearly as good as new.


JH E MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDING
31st DECEMBER, 1895.
(One Pound sterling equal to 4.87 dols.)
Assets £45,423,762 1 7
Liabilities ... 39,907,013 17 6
Surplus
Total Income
Total paid Policy-holders in 1895 £4,748,814 17
£5,516,748 4
£9,978,938 10
Insurance & Annuities in force £184,614,877 11 6
Net gain in 1895... ... ... 12,658,654 1 7
New business paid for in 1895 30,296,933 13 6
Note. Insurance merely written is discarded from this
Statement as wholly misleading, and only insurance
actually issued and paid for in cash is included.
AUSTRALASIAN HEAD OFFICE :
COMPANY’S BUILDING,
MARTIN PLACE and PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
X
—THE—
HERCULES SHIRT.
POST I'ICPE to any part of the colonies.
'X
Sample Shirt on receipt of P. 0.0., * ■ ; or 3!> - Ilalf-doz.
Stronglv' recommended for station wear ; is very durable
and unshrinkable; fitted with treble collar clips. State
height, chest measure, and size of collar usually worn.
Write for sample. I‘IKE llROs., Brisbane.
gaer: nsaa
mum
C 3-0 TO EELL-
IGGLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (id.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
yratix. -
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Viudie & Co.),
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
BUCKLEY & NUNN Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOUIINE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “Victoria” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ ... ... ... JBIG and *3l
LADIES’ *lB and * al
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1896 i®'
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
[?]
Sydney, June 2, 1896.
My Dear Moorabinda—
According to their own unsupported statement,
the “ Very Nicest ” people gathered together at
Sydney Centennial Park last Thursday afternoon
for the first meet of the Hampden Riding, Driv-
ing, and Cycling Club. That the “altogether”
was farcical goes without saying. When the
Nicest people let it go abroad in the penny-papers
that they will perform in a certain place at such-
and-such an hour, naturally there is a huge and
critical crowd assembled to greet them ; and if
they really objected to the aforesaid crowd, or had
brains enough to see that they were really inviting
it to roll up, they would make their preliminary
arrangements in a haunted chapel at midnight,
and not in the Town Hall before the reporters.
To an unprejudiced observer the maiden meet
of the Hampden Club looked like anything but
the “ nicest way of bringing the nicest people
together it rather suggested a cock-fight whither
my lord Tomnoddy hies in the company of Bill
Sikes. All shades of the community, from His
Ex. downwards, were represented, and it was
amusing to see how gingerly the officials, laid on to
see fair play, interfered with the populace (plainly
“out for the afternoon”) who treated the sacred
pavilion as if it were a Punch-and-Judy show, and
criticised the Hampden Clubites as if they were
waxworks. I don’t think our glorious Constitoo-
shun ever had a more brilliant day out than on
Thursday, when grimy little guttersnipes barred
the way everywhere, and big officials looked on
helplessly and wished to Heaven, no doubt, that
the Nicest people—immortal phrase !—wouldn’t
put them in so difficult a position.
So far as the club was concerned (but in that
variegated orowd the club was like a needle in a
bundle of hay) the occasion was dressy. Lady
Hampden (who drove) certainly looked like an
elderly governess in a black hat and glasses, but
the Acting-Govemoress was a stately monument
of velvet and fur, and the committee obviously
had its best bonnet on. I was pleased to see that
more women rode than biked. The Vice-Regal
damsels and two of the A.V.R. ditto (who are the
chief chums of the Guvmentouse girls) were on
bikes which they rode discreetly, all wearing dark-
blue serge coats and skirts and white sailor hats,
and accompanied by Capt. Egerton, A.D.C., in a
lizard-striped suit and grey felt hat. By the way,
both Capt. Egerton and Rupert Carington biked
in long trousers, buckled at the ankle, though the
club secretary’s legs presented a variegated appear-
ance, what with golf stockings, knee-breeches,
and so forth; the sec., however, is a plump and
pleasing person who need not hesitate when it
comes to base revelations. But evidently the
Govmentouse male biking-suit has to have a pair
of everyday trousers buckled at the ankle. Calves
and all that sort of thing are doosid bad form at
Govt. House, dontcherknow, as anybody might
guess if he summoned up a mental vision of
what a certain prominent young official would
look like scudding under bare poles.
Some of the lady-cyclists (“devils in trousers”
is their East End name) were pretty well turned
out, but most of ’em went wrong about the trim-
mings. The really-fashionable cyclist is as neat
and natty as a horsewoman, and a bow of ribbon
or a flower is as much out of place on a wheel as on
a saddle. One or two wore rather vulgar hats—
vulgar because out of place—and one with a blue
bow at the back of her neok looked as if she
wanted to be a poodle. Skirts were universal. A
wild rumor that one pair of bloomers had reached
the park was true enough, but the wearer gyrated
on the edge of the crowd and fled like a lost soul
at the approach of man. I thought the club
equestriennes were all bright instances of how
taking women look on horseback provided they sit
straight and don’t worry. One society woman on
a wide-awake moke with a bang tail sported a
snuff-colored habit of soul-stirring cut, and was a
noticeable figure because most of the riders
sported black habits—worn in one instance, that of
a plump society girl, to minimise the German-
sausage effect. There were not many horsemen
present; the hardest riders were away at a meet-
ing of the Sydney Hunt Club held at Canterbury
the same afternoon.
On dit that the roll of Hampden Club members
is not nearly as long as it was expected to be, and
that the Nicest people hung back from subscribing
because the committee has arranged matters so
that it can do pretty well what it pleases,
and no questions asked or answered ; but if any-
thing goes wrong with the works, members are
expected to put their hands in their pockets and
square things. Some of the nicest people don’t
oonsider that the nicest way of spending their
money, so they decide to merely look on until the
rules alter. But the Hampden Club, with its
open rendezvous in a people’s park, is utterly
doomed as a really swagger institution. Unless
the club purchases some of the wild and woolly
land surrounding the park, and fences it in 6ft.
high, and meets therein and drinks its tea and
makes unexpected descents into the park from
this vantage, the Hampden Club meets will always
be the cheap circus the first one was, which not
even a hollow square of School of Industry children
(impressively drawn up on Thursday to give an
air of God-bless-the-Squire to the assemblage)
could reduce to even the suggestion of a forelock-
pulling contest.
Which reminds me that the description of an
entertainment given by the Factory Girls’ Club,
in Sydney lately, reads exactly like an English
forehead-knuckling and bob-curtsey matoh. Surely
it must have been one of the “ very nicest ” of
functions, what with curates, judges, old ladies,
the National Anthem, and so on. And. it’s
amusing to note the proprietary airs of the “ nicest
people ” when having their names handed down to
posterity in the social columns of the penny papers
—they always employ sounding territorial designa-
tions in conjunction with their names. The
Blanks (of Blenheim), the Borndrunks (of Men-
tone) —and so on. But it never sounds really
baronial. In Australia such things only suggest
a sort of glorified edition of “ no connection with
over the way,” or the horror of Smith, the large
fat publican, lest he should ever be mistaken for
Smith, the poor little greengrocer.
On dit regarding the awful lack of “ punctuality,
the politeness of kings,” noticeable about Gov.
Hampden—who has laid up more committee-men
with influenza through keeping’em waiting in their
pumps on top of cold marble steps for weary
hours than any other Gov. on the continent —that
the reason of this serious inability on his Ex.’s part
to keep railway-time is said to be want of organisa-
tion at Govt. House. The incompetency of the
officials (who only want a bun and a pair of
goloshes to be a farcical comedy) led to a fearful
mix-up at the levee the other day—a number of
military big-wigs with cards of entree arrived
much before the time specified, but only just
escaped being too late, and at the Queen’s Birth-
day dinner I hear that the most aboriginal arrange-
ments had been made for allotting the seats at
table. And anyone who knows how sensitive the
nicest people are in matters of precedence will
appreciate the horror of the thing. This happy-
go-lucky style of arranging the most official and
formal gatherings —trusting to chance, as it were,
to shake the big potatoes to the top —looks as if
the diplomatic Wallington, at present out of har-
ness, were seriously wanted at his old post.
The Steamship Companies’ official ball .takes
place at the Paddington Town Hall on the 10th
July. Mr. E. A. Desjardins is hon. sec. to what
is always one of the liveliest invitation-dances of
the year. But the very next dance is the French
ball on June 15, which is working up to be a great
success.
The only moral I observed in. “ The Benefit of
the Doubt,” at Sydney Criterion, was that the
woman who drinks fizz on an empty stomach when
a plate of biscuits stares her in the face deserves
all that happens to her subsequently. It isn’t
kind of Pinero to set all the married people squirm-
ing reminiscently over a realistic picture of a
madly-jealous wife nagging and worrying and
casting out damaging insinuations as to the
genuineness of the complexion of hubby’s
Platonic lady friend, and when the husband shakes
her in the last act you heave a sigh of relief—even
though it is the charming Beryl Faber who is
thus being agitated, in a cloudy costume of scarlet
and greyish-green like an amateur attempt at a
Turner sunset.
The platonic lady (Mrs. Brough) wanted shaking
too, I thought, and so did her cast-iron Dutch
husband (Cecil Ward), and the platonic Titheradge
besides —but, if somebody shook Pinero, perhaps
he wouldn’t inflict such shocking family-jars on
people under the guise of original comedies. Mr.
Brough and Dot Boucicault, as Sir Peter and the
addle-pated egotist, were oases in the sandy desert
of jaw-jaw, and Kate Bishop made every braced-
up fat woman in the circle heave sympathetically
when she announced her intention of retiring to
take off her corsets. The “ Benefit of the Doubt ”
was smartly costumed. Mrs. Brough looked very
handsome in a smoked-ivory color silk, with an
irregular black check, made with immense sleeves,
and fancifully-faked with melon-pink silk covered
with fine white lace —black silk braces and sash-
ends lined with pink ; piquant pink toque and a
green velvet cape, embroidered with jet. It was a
very elaborate turn-out, but, at the same time, I
scarcely think a woman of the world would meet a
charge of alleged friskiness with such an air of
coquettish-challenge about her attire. Virtue in
the witness-box should run to snuff - color and
square-toes if it really wants to convince the jury.
Some parts of the “ Benefit of the Doubt ” re-
minded me of a recent painful Australian suicide
—especially the part where “Eraser, of Locheen,”
stalks moodily aside like a modern Hamlet when
his feather-brained wife only wanted slapping.
The unhappy lady, according to the sad story in
the newspapers, was a weak, warm-blooded —per-
haps mad—woman married to a painfully-respect-
able husband. And when one day she suddenly
and oddly confessed to him that she had veered
from the path of virtue he immediately took his
portmanteau and fled for a judicial separation
without making the most idle inquiries into the
facts of the case. From a safe and formal dis-
tance he wrote her a cold communication to the
effect that the Lord might forgive her if she
prayed hard enough—the inference being that he
(the husband) never could ; and the poor young
wife killed herself and ended the miserable busi-
ness. Nobody can deny that the husband did
what was entirely proper and respectable—and yet
mightn’t it be worth while for some of these severe
moralists to forgive a woman once or twice ?
Voluntary confession is generally a sign of future
love, honor and obedience —but how many men
are there who wouldn’t grab their valise and flee
from the penitent just the same as that husband
did?
The popular G. L. Goodman, whose immaculate
shirt-front is almost part of the entablature of
Sydney Lyceum, is rather “ spiked ” at the grossly-
exaggerated reports that have gone the rounds of
the papers re the huge inheritance he is down for
owing to the murder of his uncle, Mr. John Levy,
a wealthy London merchant. But as Goodie him-
self doesn’t know how much he inherits, it is
obvious that the amounts published are fairy-tales.
As heir-at-law Mr. Goodman inherits the real
estate, and the rest is divided between six people ;
but whether his legal share will be five, four, or
three figures is beyond his knowledge. Since the
publication of these huge fanciful amounts it has
been perpetual Hospital Saturday with “ Goodie,”
who has been besieged with people trying to divert
some of the cash into their own pockets —Poverty
Pointers, especially, almost arriving with shovels to
remove what they consider their share of the spoil.
Also, every woman whom Goodie ever advised to
mind the step expects a parure of diamonds for
her whack.
Admiral Bowden Smith, who was popular in
Australia, and certainly did his best to give the
Sydney girls a chance with the officers of his
fleet by piling Pelion on Ossa as regards flirty hops
and teas, verbally contradicts his good nature in
his paper on “ Two Years in Australian Waters,”
recently read in London. If Admiral Bridge had
growled about the folly of “ subs ’ marrying and
the doubtful wisdom of pensioning the widows of
mere boys it would have sounded en suite ; but
that Admiral Smith, who was so liberal with his
epaulettes whilst “down under,” should endeavor
to come between the Australian girl and her
natural prey, and protect the impressionable sub.
in the green ear, as it were, from her machinations
is indeed a right-about face. However, I piously
hope that all Admiral Smith’s reforms will come
to pass. When once the navy regulations make
wards-in-Ohancery of junior officers, the awful
spectacle of “garrison hacks” pretending to pal-
pitate at the advance of pimply midshipmen will
become a horror of the past. •
Diplomatically enough Admiral Smith puts in a
good word for Australian girls as wives and
mothers (Sir Precedent Scott might be listening),
and between Mr. Smith and Lady Jersey the in-
digenous female has been having rather a good
time of it on paper lately. By the way, Lady
Jersey must have regarded Sydney as her tem-
porary home, to write about it as she does in a
London paper. The sketch of her temporary home
which an ex-Govemor’s wife can draw “ is fortu-
nately bound to be a pleasant one,” says M.E. J.,
and yet it was during her reign that the memorable
barn-dance episode occurred, and that the news-
boys at a Govt. House treat called out to her
amiable spouse—“ Jersey, pass the pickles ! ”
Australian society, though it respects Lady
Jersey, didn’t quite love her : she was far too
downright in her style. Also, her habit of assem-
bling a lot of purse-proud ignoramuses in the red
drawing-room and talking over their heads about
the whichness of the what and then drawing into
her shell in plain disgust when somebody feebly
remarked that it was very ’ot, has not endeared
her memory, and her constant expeditions from
her temporary — very temporary —home left Govt.
House without a hostess for weeks. Gov. Jersey,
charmingly ugly, amiable, and unaffectedly popu-
lar, was the success of the brief Jersey regime.
Ada Crossley sends along a batch of press
criticisms —all “raining rubies and diamonds and
beautiful pearls,” as Svengali says—in praise of
the voice and method of the fair contralto. But
the best line, from a feminine point of view, is
where the scribe tells of the Victorian’s bell-bird’s
nobby appearance in a black gown, beautifully
designed in spangles, and the low bodice outlined
with pink chiffon, which proved very becoming to
her lovely complexion. And Miss Crossley was
standing beside Patti, gorgeous in blue and pink
brocade, when she got that notice. By the way,
had Miss Crossley a “lovely complexion” when
she left us ? I thought it was rather raspy. How-
ever, it is wonderful what England does for the
most sallow skin. It must be some inherent virtue
in the fogs.
A perfect deluge of “Trilby ” music comes from
W. H. Glen and Co. The “Trilby” waltz, by
Bernard Hill, includes all the weary old tunes
resurrected in “Trilby,” and is trifling and turn-
turn from a serious point of view ; nevertheless it
ought to be thankfully received by people who
like to dance to what everybody is whistling.
Much the same may be said of the limp “ Trilby ”
march by Svengali, introducing the air and
words of “Benßolt ” —but the “ Trilby ’Gavotte,
by A. E. Wilson, is a silvery measure sufficiently
pizzicato to be pleasing, and decidedly the best of
the “ Trilby ” bunch. Said bunch is all more or less
dedicated to Edith Crane, whose photo, on the
covers helps things along. The most grateful
features about the “Konowna” mazurka, by
Fannie Ryan, are that it isn’t dedicated to a
Governor and isn’t called the “ Trilby.”
Talking of “ Trilby ” somehow reminds me of a
yarn concerning the N.S.W. medicine-man whose
sudden disappearance has not yet been fully
accounted for. It was at the doctor’s house, one
evening. “What do you think of that?” said
the doctor to a he-friend, showing him the portrait
of a deliciously-refined and divinely-intelligent
face. The other man was entranced. “It is my
ideal of womanhood,” said the medicine-man.
“And she was -?” “A ballet-girl.” A
moving and suggestive tale, but, after all, the
doctor’s friend who tells the story was hardly
justified in sizing up a coryphee on her face alone.
Writes my Melb. correspondent:—
“ The Brasseys’ full-dress reception in honor of
Y.R.’s birthday proved a woeful take-down for
the loyal mob. 9.30 p.m. was the time named for
arriving in one’s gala garments, and a dance, of
the choicest birthday order, was taken for granted.
However, it soon became evident that the ball
theory had been founded on ignorance. There
was no ball, and no anything else in particular,
beyond a band that suffered from * Ben Bolt ’ on
the brain, and some cheap refreshments discernible
in the distance, but seldom available when a
hungry customer applied for shares. At 11 o’clock
Maggie Stirling mounted to the organ-gallery and
sang ‘God Save the Qi ee i,’ whereupon sassiety
shook the dust of the full-d /ess reception from its
angry skirts and went snorting away. The chief
mourners were a number of debutantes, whose grief
at not having been launched upon the sea of dissi-
pation was unaffectedly sincere. .A girl can’t be
said to ‘ come out ’ at a funeral of that kind.
“At South Melb. Town Hall, the other night,
a cooking-class for working girls was opened
under circumstances which must have shocked
local snobocracy. The Governor’s wife signified
her desire to encourage made dishes among the
humblah classes by strolling into the hall half-an-
hour before the appointed time. The first person
to discover the illustrious stranger cooling her
heels in solitude was the Mayoress, who nearly fell
dead before the apparition. Lady Brassey it
seemed, had got there early in order to smile upon
each individual working female as she came to
class, and having carried out this fell purpose her
Lx. bolted home to dinner. She didn’t wait to
appease her inner pangs with an amateur contri-
bution from the new school of cookery.
“Gov. Brassey and Lady have, more or less
gone on strike. Every tin-pot ceremony in Vic-
toria expected their presence, until at last thev
kicked with one accord. Recently the gloomsome
Gov. was asked to open the new operating-theatre
at a Melbourne hospital, whilst Lady B. was in-
vited to do something in the same direction at
Castlemame, and they put the negative on both
invitations, H.E. saying that vice-regal functions
must stop at a sawbones butchery-room How
ever, ex-Acting-Gov. Madden did not despise the
honor of taking Brassey’s leavings. In fact if an
oyster was to be opened in public, the Chief-
Justice would find it a proud privilege to
part the shells, and make a few appropriate re-
marks on the interesting occasion.
“ Mrs. Freeman Thomas comes up smiling
to the ‘ Political Economy ’ lectures at Melb
University. Previously the seekers after this par-
ticular kind of wisdom were few and scattered
but with the advent of the Gov.’s daughter on the
scene a strange reverence for the law of supply
and demand is in the air. The first row, reserved
for Toorak ladies of ‘ neglected and backward
education,’ begins to be fashionably attended
and the body of the hall is no longer bare. ’
“ The announcement that Mrs. George Laber-
touche intends to give a lecturette on palmistry in
a fashionable drawing-room has caused a mild sen-
sation. Mrs. L.’s return from England was
happily timed. The marriage-market is deplor-
ably slack, and an experienced palmist capable of
stating the intentions of the fair man or of fixing
the date when the dark man will come up to the
scratch, will certainly fill a long-felt want.
Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
A Sydney Chinaman has been fined £5 for
keeping a five-roomed house as a leprous offal-tip.
In that core of cancer dwelt 14 men and severai
polyandrie females. Does Australia love the
Chow ? It hugs him to its nodular heart.
Q. Ex-Chief Justice Lilley says he didn’t
write that letter to “My dear Ryan.” He wrote
several letters, covering some time, and “My
dear Ryan ” picked out little bits here and there
and hashed them into one coherent epistle which
he sent to the Sydney press as an apparent whole!!
Cabled that “A fearfulcatastrophe occurred
in Russia at a feast to celebrate the Czar’s coro-
nation. Fully 400,000 people attended, and a
mad rush took place, 1100 being killed and 450
injured.” Which roundaboutly recalls the cele-
brated rush at the free banquet given in Mel-
bourne under the auspices of L. L. Smith and Co.
to celebrate the Duke of Edinburgh’s visit to Aus-
tralia. The mob rushed the huge wine-tun and
stove it in. Nobody was killed, but many became
dead-drunk.
When the news of Baron Hirsch’s death
reached the Prince of Wales on his arrival at
Epsom on the Metropolitan day, he at once re-
turned to London by the special which brought
him down. It was immediately whispered that
he “had gone back to try and get hold of his
I O U’s,” of which it is supposed that the Baron
held a good many for considerable value. But
people will say ill-natured things. The pair were
great friends, and it is believed that the deceased
millionaire left H.R.H, a very substantial legacy.
An interesting side-light on the Sydney
Suppress. One day last week, the time of the
Full Court was taken up for a whole morning in
hearing an application, made by Barrister Heydon,
for the issue of a criminal summons against certain
members of a leading liquor firm, charged on
affidavit made by a private individual with
having cheated the excise-revenue. Ineffec-
tual application had been made to a magis-
trate for a summons, and, as it was technically
within the magistrate’s discretion to refuse, a
mandamus could not be applied for; hence the ap-
plication to the Full Court. Though the alleged
facts were set forth on oath in detail by the would-
be prosecutor, and though the daily-journal re-
porters were present in court, not a word about
this important affair, which was the means of post-
poning the Meagher case for a day or two, ap-
peared in any newspaper. Why ?
‘‘ O what a tangled web w e weave when first
we practise to deceive ! ” A tangled web indeed
was that spun by attorney Meagher, now struck
off the roll of N.S.W. solicitors for his tortuous
conduct in connection with the Dean case. In
delivering judgment the court went right out of
its way to explain that certain leading articles in
the Victorian papers were founded on the erroneous
assumption that Judge Windeyer’s celebrated re-
mark to the effect that he was as sure Dean
poisoned his wife as if he (the Judge) had seen
him doing it, was made before, instead of after,
the delivery of the verdict. While thus apolo-
gising for its learned brother, the court ought
really to have explained away His Honor’s unique
and immoral suggestion that the hesitant and
divided jury might recommend Dean to mercy—
i. e. , compound with its doubts (for it had not up
to then been able to agree) by recommending pri-
soner to mercy for a crime which, if he committed
it, was one of the last crimes in the world de-
serving of mercy. That suggestion was made, not
after, but before the conviction, and it constituted
the real root of the Dean-case agitation against
Judge Windeyer. But for that noxious and mde-
fensible suggestion it is altogether unlikely that
there would have been any effectual public move-
ment in the matter.


|y| ELACHRINO
, Cigarettes.
M. MELACHRINO & CO.,
CAIRO,
Largest Manufacturers of the
Best Egyptian Cigarettes.
Supplied to over 200 London Clubs and
Regimental Messes.
Hand Made. Absolutely Pure.
To be had from all Leading Tobacconists.
CaledonianLiqueurWhisky
PRhVM ii•') • f.-ft U'^SSPI
!fll^‘ ,v OK , ii»«*iii.i l iiiHrjT, , miuii.i»i..vu *./ «»> r rails
li
I.K.UilliiKi!
iI!m«4W
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
W BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
LOMBARDIA,
THE GREAT PILE SPECIFIC
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
Before trying other so-called Remedies you
should ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a
Pot of Lombardia, and take no other. Only onb
Trial is asked.
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
F, MoDONALD, Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydnej.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Odds about 16 to 4 that out-and-out Pro-
tectionist M‘Kinley will be the next U.S. Presi-
dent.
A big row is pending in a Victorian Public
Service secret society. Admission of outsiders the
cause.
“Lands” Minister Carruthers : “I do
not, unfortunately, own a foot of land in N.S.
Wales.”
S.A. Democrats are already organising for
next year’s Leg. Council elections. Chaffey Baker,
arch-fiend of the National Ass, is one of the retiring
candidates.
At Mutooroo (S.A.) there are 75 electors
on the roll, and at last general election not one
vote was recorded. The inhabitants were too
tired. Mutooroo is evidently the champion tired
town of Australia.
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) coal-strike posi-
tion is that the unfortunate miners, who are prac-
tically without funds, are being allowed, as on
former occasions, to stew in their own gravy. The
appeal made to England for funds will, of course,
be resultless.
Roughly speaking, Britain has lent Aus-
tralia, publicly and privately, upwards of
41400,000,000 outstanding at the present time, on
which Kangarooland sweats to pay interest to
the tune of something over 4117,000,000 yearly.
The dear old Mo. country !
The Argus leaders against socialism for-
cibly recall those sermons which refute objections
you never heard of before, and only leave new
objections in your mind. Charles Bright was em-
ployed by the Argus to write down Spiritualism,
but got converted. Is the present writer under-
going that process ? The vividness with which he
states the case of Lassalle, Blanc, and Marx is
alarming.
NEMESIS !
MRS. MURPHY: “ And sure ye lost all yer money in thim thavin'
companies!”
MRS. ROONEY: “ Yes, I did! But God’s good: I have one consola-
tion — my son Mickey is a warder out in Pentridge beyant.”
The N.S.W. Public Works Commission
sittings should have been open from the
public and press. Closed doors only convey that
there is something to conceal. Everything not
indecent should see the light of print. Perhaps
the Works revelations are indecent.
The Yic. Railway Department has just
realised that there is a big leakage somewhere
in the passenger-returns, and that the number
of tickets taken and the number sold show
a great discrepancy. The theory is that the enter-
prising clerk prints tickets on his own account.
One clerk is now charged with haying made a haul
of £3OO, and the weather-eye of the department is
being opened to a lot of unexpected things.
Two members of N.S.W. Public Works
Committee have died within the last six months.
The committee, fully manned, consists of the
fateful number 13. A hint for Governments in
future to nominate only members of the Opposi-
tion to the erstwhile much-coveted positions.
A devoted subject to the Argus :
In the United States I believe that the “ Stars and
Stripes ” is conspicuous in the schools and is saluted by
the scholars. Why should not the Union Jack be dis-
played in our State schools ?
Well, because Australia, like Yankeeland, has a
flag of its own.
Free cabs are explicitly forbidden at
Yic. elections, by Act of Parliament, and yet
there were as many as ever flying about at South
Melb. election. The drivers give their services,
and are content with a douceur —another example
of driving the coach and horses through an Act
of Parliament.
Mauger, the runner-up in the S. Melb.
election, was much-boomed by his conspicuous
connection with the Anti-Sweating League, but
the electors could not stomach his air of smug
Methodism and his tea-meeting principles. He
is a rabid cold-water man, and S. Melb. electors
don’t run to cold water.
N.S.W. Justice Simpson’s initiation of
a scheme —to be followed by a rule of court
enabling those suing in forum pauperis to do
so in reality, is the importation, at a very late
day, into N.S.W. law practice of a custom ages
old in France. There the Court supplies without
charge even paper and stamps to such suitors.
Something has gone wrong with the cheap
loaf which was to be supplied in N.S.W. under
the Foreign-trade regime. Bread has already gone
up once in Sydney, and, at latest advices, it was
seriously thinking of going up some more. And
nothing has come down to any serious extent by
way of compensation, save Brussels carpet and
jewellery.
Cabled that “Mr. Fort, formerly Lord
Loch’s private secretary, asserts that Mr. Rhodes
supported Dr. Jameson’s raid, as he had positive
knowledge that Kruger was arranging an anti-
English alliance. The intention of Dr. Jameson s
raid, says Mr. Fort, was merely to destroy the
Hollander-German cabal.’ Patriotic Rhodes! Yet
it would have suited his private business very
much to be able to jump on Kruger with both feet.
Also Rhodes and Co., until they were bowled out
by documentary and other evidence as liars and
conspirators, insisted that bandit Jameson acted
purely 11 on his own.” The mutual dislike of Eng-
lishman and German is about the only card left
for the Chartered Co. to play, and Mr. Fort is
playing it.
Lands Minister Carru-
thers in a recent speech at
Fort-street School, Sydney:
With that regret there must be
a feeling of satisfaction that the
Port-street Public School Boys’
Union had offered an opportunity
to the old scholars of the school
to pay a tribute of respect to the
memory of one who was the
founder of the Public school sys-
tem throughout the whole of the
Australian colonies. (Hear, hear.)
He said that advisedly, because
the work of the late Sir Henry
Parkes in regard to our system
of education had not been con
fined to New South Wales, for the
Act of which he was the author
had been adopted in every one
of the Australian colonies having
self-governing powers, with the
exception, perhaps, of Western
Australia.
The Bulletin respectfully
states just here that Minister
Carruthers is an igno-
ramus. South Australia
started the State school sys-
tem under a Board of Edu-
cation in 1851 ; Victoria did
the same in 1862; Tasmania
in 1854 ; Queensland in 1860.
Then N.S.W. in 1866 imi-
tated them and set up a
similar system and a similar
Council of Education. In
1872 Victoria created a
Public Instruction Depart-
ment under a responsible
Minister. Queensland creat-
ed a similar department in
1875; South Australia in
1878 ; and N.S.W. again imi-
tated them in 1880. Parkes
wasn’t the creator, but the
imitator; he wasn’t the
founder of the education sys-
tem ; he didn’t draft the
N.S.W. Education Act ; he
didn’t even invent the idea
of imitating the other pro-
vinces. In fact, about the
only thing he ever did invent
was the Kiama Ghost,
Reid and Want are the
only N.S.W. Ministers with
pluck or brains enough to
publicly hold reasonable opin-
ions on the subject of the
liquor-law. They both dare
to believe that you can’t sup-
press the grog-traffic —that if
you closed up every pub. and
stopped the importation of liquor, people
would distill grog in their bedrooms. In
truth, you can no more abolish alcohol than you
can flatten quicksilver under your thumb. The
professional prohibitionists are simply a set of
fools and rogues, or fool-rogues, who live politi-
cally or otherwise by pretending that they can
thumb-squeeze quicksilver.
The highest Judge in France the Presi-
dent of the Court of Cassation—is paid oil y
£llOO a year. Little Australia, with about a
tenth of the population, pays some £15,000 a year
to its Chief Justices. And yet, with this and
other profligacies in finance under their noses,
people meet you in the street and ask : How is
it costs so much to govern us?
The Vic. municipal and shire councils are
Wing their fat heads together with hog-like de-
n! , tion to pre vent the legislation of a Poor
p a t e —one of the measures to be dealt with next
A SUPPORTER OF THE S.A. REFERENDUM.
TEACHER: “The 24th of May is no holiday. It falls on a Sunday.”
CISSIE: “Don’t care! Won’t have to go to church or Sunday-school. See!"
session of Parliament. Cr. Riddell, of Caulfield,
indignantly describes it as an attempt “to shift
the burden of taxation from the general taxpayer
on to the property-owners.” Exactly.
In these degenerate days of life-passes for
tin-pot mediocrities, dubbed by themselves or
other mediocrities “distinguished persons,” over
Australian railway-lines, a bracing tonic may be
brewed from the fact that President Cleveland,
following the custom of U.S. Presidents generally,
never accepted a deadhead-pass for self, family, or
household in respect of trains, boats, or theatres.
Melb. Punch mentions that our recent
visitor, Lowles, M.P., represents one of the divi-
sions of Shoreditch in the Commons. Then it
adds, out of the massiveness of its erudition, that
Shoreditch is so called “ because Jane Shore, the
paramour of King Richard 11., died in a ditch
there.” Punch’s English history is the only
original thing about that harrowing publication.
“ One of the humors of the South Melb.
election,” says the Age, “is that Mr. Bent has
forfeited his <£so, as everybody predicted, and
that he has the undoubted satisfaction of being
for once an undoubted benefactor to the public.
And Bent aforesaid was Speaker of Vic. Assembly,
in succession to Matthew Davies ! Therein lies
the real humor of the South Smellbourne election,
to The Bulletin’s way of thinking.
Up to now there has been a go-as-you-
please for seats in the strangers’ gallery of N.S.W.
Assembly : the first persons who arrived got m,
and when the gallery became full no one else was
allowed admission until a seat became vacant.
The Speaker has now ukased that admission is in
future only to be obtained on tickets issued to and
obtained from hon. members. In a word, whereas
the gallery has hitherto been filled with members
enemies, in future it is to be only at the disposal
of members’ friends.
No one who knows anything of the inner
workingof the N.S.W. Statutes Consolidation Com-
mission will be at all surprised that it is fizzling
out The province has been put to an expense of
more than £4OOO, and the only people who have
got any good, out of it ar© th. 6 S6cr6tari©s of tn©
various committees, who, for 18 months, have
drawn salaries of £3OO a-year each. Did any one
expect that the honorary members could spare
time from club-land to attend revision meetings,
and do a lot of work for nothing ?
The Tozer incident showed up Australian
Labor solidarity in an unexpected way. M.L.A.
Thomas’s protest—partly founded on memories
of a lecturing-tour through Queensland, when
he alleges that Tozer had him dogged by
police was thoroughly justified. The mem-
bers of the present Q. Govt, are enemies of
the people, and should be so treated by those who
claim to be friends of the people. One chief
reason of Glassey’s unpopularity with the Q. Govt.
crowd the Assembly. Hoolan,
P o) - ber hand used to be hail-fellow-well-met,
got qilite a Hking for him.
and M llwraith got quite m g
Every Australian Govt, service should be
cleansed of secret societies. The task is large ana
difficult—difficult because prominent officials and
Cabinet Ministers, along with other public ser-
rants, hold office.™ them A Vur
Premier, when m power, ac y g u
destinies of a secret (Service) society called Ihe
Queen’s Own;” but secret societies have no plac
in a Democracy, and the Govt, which first insists
that no member of any secret society can be a
public official and vice-versa, will deserve and
earn the thanks of every true Australian.
J. B. Tucker, the South Melb. wharf-
laborer, elected to represent the Trades Hall in
Vic. Assembly, is 54 years old, and an English-
man—of course. The average young Australian
is all there in any impersonal skite about his native
iand, but, when anything definite arrives, he in-
variably backs down, refusing to accord the
prophet honor in his own country or to admit
youth and ability as co-existent possibilities.
Tucker is personally a decent fellow, and just
about as fit to be a M.P. as any one of his fellows
who sling cargo or drive donkey-engines. Not a
bit more or less.
The Tozer-Reid discrepancies on the bald
Barrier episode arc much less suggestive of abys-
mal idiocy than is the sheep-witted instinct which
impelled politicians to take sides as parties.
N.S.W. Opposition—not one member, but all of
them—believed every word Tozer said, and jeered
at Thomas, of the Labor camp. N.S.W. Free-
traders— not one, but all of them—believed every
word Reid said, and also jeered at Thomas ; and
N.S.W. Labor men and Q. Labor men and all
Labor men pinned their faith to Thomas and
cared not a fig for Reid or Tozer. The average
man, to become a “ staunch ” member of a politi-
cal party, needs to have the soul blasted out of
him and his brains addled by some huge ancestral
curse or course of heartless personal crime. He
lies, without knowing he lies, for it; he belies,
without knowing he belies, for it; and the worse
in every political sense the man the “ stauncher ”
the party-man is assumed to be.
Hints to Cyclists.
Don’t think you have rented the entire roadway.
Don’t wait until within two feet of a person you
are passing before ringing your bell.
Don’t try to see how close you can run to persons
you are passing without hitting them.
Don’t try to show off because passing a trap filled
with what you assume are envious lookers-on.
Don’t “ scorch ”on the public roads. First-class
riders in good standing have access to tracks
prepared for fast riding.
Don’t bend into a position which represents curva-
ture of the spine, and subjects cycling to
ridicule.
Don’t misunderstand the cause of undue shortness
of breath. The least torpidity or weakness of
the liver is. characterised by shortness of
breath.
Don’t let anyone deceive you. There is only one
remedy known in the world for liver troubles.
That remedy is Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure.
Don’t hesitate to use it promptly if you have
shortness of breath, or notice signs of the
slightest irritation of the urinary organs 01
kidneys, particularly brick-dust deposits in
the water after standing, and, by so doing,
cycling may be followed fearlessly.
Don’t take the vendors’ (of Warner’s “Safe”
Cure) word for it. Mr. W. De Largz D’Alton,
of Warracknabeal, an old Victorian athlete,
says: “I cannot say enough in praise of
Warner’s ‘ Safe ’ Cure. I suffered from uric
acid poisoning. It went to the kidneys—and
this medicine cured me.”


y ipv
ff y y-
yy/ y /
y? i yy 1
/ e ,V ,a /
/* V
*IV
7^
ytjW— as //-
STZr-* a
/bz-esv/iTT
I o
ijLi r '
S** 1 : 5 * r ‘
3UN$i
According to the interpretation which
is placed on the Health Act by Mr Jus-
elce Hodges, a person who has been
1 fined for neglecting to have a child vac*
cinated cannot be agaiu punished
although the child remains unvaccinated
The discovery of this remarkable flaw
in the Act will bring joy into the camp
of the anti-vaccinationists
" the bench scandals.
MESSRS. RAPIPORT AND BAXTER
ON trial* -
COLLAPSE OP. THE CASE.
IMPORTANT WITNESSES DECLINE!
TO GIVE EVIDENCE.
ACCUSED ACQUITTED BY
DIRECTION.
y^LLEN /'fjßouq/f.
Her personal pleastirt*
■'have been found chiefly in her garden*
and conservatories, or amongst her doge
and ponies, and eho has taught at letdt
some of her-children to find satisfaction in*
equally harmless pursuits.
/ \->7f£
he ZjU "
'“ h r on » Atu
**« »' n „
v
up on th«
W "/>f£
fg
<~oIrz? arte* barter
MELBOURNIANA.


2v
I \
<=3® y/=>7<eys oj- />^ <3 / >^
"Styart" s^’
rjrs fylty fooKedh/ell
19 aTaitor^ e 9t at ‘
Conjjoatj'izd. b% O| V I -^ pf 7 s a
"fired itj Irouters to irjatcfj,
O'ljullets dus Copsfcuoashyfj't
absence • P]i 0 1 dJuUeys fof>f>ed
r> bpitje it) btd
c^V
7 ®v k
v s jri
<SU p
/ dr lut}d}<*oiy
w /
J>L~ IfFff .
'f (jo
laice ilf" (jzp.d.
*i&
".And, boys," Said //o/rdess fidi
/yfen fio/tcf art accountnf Afe
affair df/errv'ards T/T/towed
dh orice if~’-hfasn f~ a°
blessed fr[osfceter a idalfcnj
oVej* /7£<° "
* (brack bf oy^of
° 7ft" 9/C.e. /*«*«> |» l
littfz d-ij- <
off and 1
is f ot
UnJbUajM<£
<J)ut uj y^&iy
Ob v«;<£°<*y!
/ °
THE SYDNEY “NICEST PEOPLE’S” CLUB—FIRST MEET AT CENTENNIAL PARK.


df
J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
PbotograpbK Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
AND SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New Pocket Kodak , price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM for 12 EXPOSURE.', 1,6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Lists.
The New York Life Insurance Co. has ap-
pointed as its new resident secretary in Brisbane
Mr. Archibald J. Somerville, who has for many
yoars, in various capacities, been connected with
the Mutual Life Association of Australasia.
Even the most casual observer must have
noted the competition in the boot trade, and
indeed the question for everyone now is, “ Where
should I buy my boots ? Which of the many
finger-posts should I follow ?” The solution of
this as of any question rests on evidence. Sydney
and N.S.W. people know from their senses of
seeing and hearing that the firm of Callaghan and
Son is long-established and of good repute; that
the firm’s clearly-defined course has ever been to
maintain a character for honest quality and ster-
ling value. So the question, “ Where should 1
buy my boots ? ” is resolved into “ How will the
competition affect Callaghan and Son ? ’ The
answer is that the firm strictly adheres to its con-
stant practice of giving the utmost value, because
by so upholding the standard of its goods it pre-
serves its relative position in shoe-selling; and
also because this plan is all the more advantageous
now that a much-canvassed public is liable to be
undecided where to buy. Further reason is that
the principle ensures one customer recommending
another—an invaluable help in these times of keen
competition. So, when calmly analysed, the
question of “ Where should I buy my boots? is
no question at all ; people who like good boots
and do not go to Callaghan’s do themselves a
wrong.*
“ The Colossus of Life Insurance.”— Westminster Gazette.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE
co nyi::p.A.:KrY\
ASSETS - - £35,965,430.
RESIDENT BOARD FOR AUSTRALASIA:
(With power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.)
THE Hon. Sir JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G. (President Legislative Council, New South Wales), Chairman.
G. C. WESTGARTH, ESQ. (Messrs. West garth & Co., Solicitors, Sydney).
W. EDWARD WARREN, Esq., M.D. (Chief Medical Officer).
GENERAL MANAGER DEPARTMENT OF AUSTRALASIA:
THOMAS P. PURVES, A.I.A.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH OFFICES I
NEW SOUTH WALES:
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND : 227 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
£3T Enquire for particulars of the Accumulation Policy of this Company.
Personal Items.
A portrait of Parkes, exhibited in a Chicago
hotel, bears under it the name “Stepniak.” This
is fame.
From Governor Hampden’s revised Scrip-
ture : “ Sell all thou hast, and give to the Charity
Organisation Society.”
Recently, in a M.L. church, a man became
the fourth husband of a lady whose three previous
husbands had suicided.
Primate Smith is reported to have sails
set for the harbor of matrimony. Gossip associates
a well-known widow with the venture.
Dr. Youll, Melb.’s comic coroner, got a
bunch of official letters from America last week
addressed to “Mr. Richard Soule Osborne, Aus-
tralia. ”
Bananaland gibe at Prophet Wragge :
“ When the Lord supervised the weather it was
all right; but, since the Lord put Wragge in
charge, it’s all wrong.”
Messrs. Firebrace’s Mercadool station-
brand is a big, big “ D ” —surely a more than
ordinary coincidence. They put the brand on
bigger than ever just now.
At Cowra (N.S.W.), last week, a man
allegedly aged 107 years, was fined 10s. for an
assault. He had been 80 years in Australia, and
had never been in “ trouble ” before.
“ Putt on the Hempire !” is the yell of the
vulgar in the cricket - field when bowling is
“pasted.” Whenever Gov. Brassey is gravelled
in a speech, he putts on the Hempire.
Throughout the whole of the Mount Lyell
case, Hobart, which has lasted 17 or 18 days, Mr.
Justice Adams opened his lips once, and said five
words. “ The silence of Judge Adams” is omin-
ous.
From Melb. Argus :
Great Britain has never seen a more popular Prince of
Wales than the present heir; no scandals have marked
the careers of the Queen’s other sons,” etc.
Neatly put!
Ethel Turner seems fond of the word
“little” in the titles of her books : “ Seven Little
Australians ” we all know ; “ The Little Duchess
is announced ; and “ The Little Larrikin ” is pro-
mised for Christmas.
Spagnoletti : “ This is shameful. Mrs.
Harrison Lee is leaving Melb. for England. The
only good-looking woman in the W.0.T.U., and
a pearl at that, ever beaming on the reporters
with aspirations for their salvation.”
Mr. F. E. Rogers, Q.C., is considered, by
reason of his latest re-appointment to N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench as Acting-Judge, to have
successfully established a claim to the at present
vacant title of “ Journeyman Judge.”
Melb. demise : Pastor Daniel, Wesleyan.
Almost the last of the old school—men who could
not combine the editorship of lengthy “ Trilby ”
extracts with the preaching of everlasting Dam-
nation. Consequently, they were poor.
Gov. Lamington donated 10s. to the fun
in aid of the family of Lawty, recently murdered
by Q. Kanakas. Whereupon Rockhampton
People’s Newspaper told him he didn’t represent
the Sovereign—only the half-sovereign.
Melb. Argus in its Queen’s - birthday
leader: —
The chronicler of the future will have to describe
Victoria as “ Britain’s one happy queen.”
Can this be the “ Pre-eminent in Grief ” ?
Ex-Vice-regal secretary Wallington is
talked of in print as a possible official successor
to N.S.W. Police Inspector-General Fosbery. In
one respect, Capt. Wallington is strongly qualified
—he knows most of the Nicest people who need
watching.
English letters are already hinting that
Judge Windeyer is to be the first Australian
representative on the judicial committee of the
Privy Council under the provisions of the Act
passed last session for giving the colonies direct
representation on that tribunal.
Angus Cameron, Henry Parkes and John
Davies—three old cronies and mutual admirers—
dead in Sydney within a few months; the two
first leaving their widows a charge on the public,
and the last with very little in the cupboard.
Politics —it is the road to pauperdom.
Characteristic item :
London, April 24.—Mr. Justice Windeyer has not been
heard of for some days, either at the N.S.W. Government
offices or his club. It is understood, however, that he will
return to town for the Colonial Institute dinner to-night.
It recalls two evenings of the Mount Rennie trial.
R. A. Fraser, whose automatic railway-
door controller appears to have “ millions in it,’(is
only 28. He was a clerkling at the Bank of Vic-
toria, Melb., when the idea struck him, and the
controller, on which Gov. Brassey lately bestowed
his —haw ! —warm approval, is the result of 10
years’ steady thinking.
“Seppy” Stephen, M.L.C., solicitor to
the A.M.P. Society, has returned to Sydney after
a sojourn in London, where in some respects he is
a great “ pot.” They do say that the Prince of
Wales once said to the distinguished Septimus :
“ Mr. Stephen, leaving out yourself, whom do you
consider to be the best whist-player in London ? ”
Singularly little notice has been taken in
Australia of the very noteworthy achievement of
Capt. Patrick Weir, of S.A., who has devised a
diagram for finding the true bearing of celestial
bodies so as to correct the compass. Lord Kelvin
(Sir William Thompson) said of the diagram
“ that it is a work of which any high mathema-
tician might be proud. ”
P. S. F. Stephen, who died recently at
Wagga, was a nephew of the late N.S.W. Chief
Justice, and had been 70 years in Australia. He
was educated by Dr. Lang and the old-time
teacher, Cape. In 1851 he was appointed by his
uncle, Gold-commissioner Hardy, captain of the
gold escorts from Beechworth to Melbourne, and
he was at Ballarat during the “ rising ”in ’54. He
died in the modest office of secretary to the Stock
and Pastures Board at Wagga.
John Davies in his heyday dropped one
morning into the office of a Sydney attorney who
had large prints of Gladstone and Disraeli hung
over his desk. John’s eye caught them at once.
“Ha!” he said, pointing to Gladstone, “I see
you’ve got our old friend Montagu ” —a back-
country M.P. of that era —“ in a place of honor.
And, what?” —turning to Dizzy—“yes, it is !
Alderman Caraher, his living image ! ” And John
went uto ecstasies of recognition for full five
minutes.
PA It EES’ YOUNG SONS .
Henry Parkes. Cobden Parkes.
[ Photos. by Falk.
N.S.W. Yice-President Garran stubbornly
resists the Ministerial offer of a privately-con-
tributed sum in lieu of the specified salary lately
derided in Parliament. But the question is : Can
a Ministry which appointed him, with the assur-
ance that it was politically strong enough to carry
his salary through the House, accept defeat with-
out incurring and discharging an honorable per-
sonal liability ?
“The Colonial Office and the War Office
were astonished at the strides the present N.S.W.
Government have made in Federal matters,”
writes ex-Commandant Hutton. The present
Government, bear in mind. Not the Government
headed by Dibbs who snubbed Hutton, or by
Parkes, who treated him as a species of le brave
gdniral, but the Government headed by Reid, who
several times declared him to be “ the finest soldier
~f his day.”
BEGINNING DE NOVO.
SHE: “I believe you’ve had a kiss for every year since the
year One.”
HE: “ That’s all right—now let’s start B. C.”
Geologist David, of Sydney University,
tactfully distributes the glory of the discovery
that Australian artesian water is derived from
triassic rocks nearly equally between Government
Geologist Jack (Q.), Father Curran (N.S.W.), and
Govt. Geologist Pittman (N.S.W.). A triumph
of professional diplomacy. The credit of first
having noticed the occurrence (small) of artesian
water in triassic rocks is given to Jack; that for
“ large supplies ”to Curran; while “the credit for
having been the first to adduce conclusive evidence
as to the triassic age of much of our artesian water-
bearing strata ”is thrown to Pittman. A bow to
you all, gentlemen.
Weakly venturing to trust itself to a leader
on the latest Australian literature, the Argus the
other day discovered that much of Henry Lawson s
manner, was borrowed from the Yarra-bank ora-
tors, quoted as most worthy of approval a common-
place line from “ Fore and Aft,” treated Lawson
and “ The Banjo ” entirely as vernacular poets,
and wound up by commending Miss Jennings
Carmichael as “ occupying a more satisfactory in-
termediate position/’ Thu Bulletin surmises
that the critic then went home to read Fitzgibbor.
Two Bagdad Jews have bought the site of
ancient Babylon cheap. This is getting level for
the Captivity. The house of Cohen always gets
level, soon or late, and the house of Cohen is the
only race which can afford to wait 25 centuries
for its vengeance, with a certainty that when the
opportunity comes Cohen will be there to seize it.
Tom Bracken, the M.L. poet laureate,
author of “ Not Understood,” is now known, per
medium of Wellington Post, as the obituary
versifier. No sooner does a man above his fellows
“cross the bar” than Tom lays a slab of rhyme
upon his memory. He has a jingle for all creeds,
all men. In recent months he has poetically
bewailed Blundell, Bishop Moran, Rev. Dr.
Stuart, Bishop Harper, the Brunner miners,
Editor Gillon, Henry Parkes, Pat. Buckley, and
Dr. Pollen —a record, surely—and to Parkes he
gave his best
Lord Lamington, Q’sland’s
new viceroy, visited a Northern R.C.
school. Patting a youngster on the
head, he asked: “Now, little one,
who is Our Gracious Lady ? ” “ The
Blessed Virgin—l pray to her every-
day,” answered the bright scholar.
“ I’ll tell you,” said a N.S.W.
politician the other day, “why I
distrust journalists as a class. I’ll
let the anonymous men go; they
may be better or worse, but the fact
of their anonymity protects them.
Take the editors —those who ‘ re-
present’ the Press at Government
House and on great banqueting oc-
casions. These are not anonymous
—in fact, they print their own
names, and appear to like it, in their
own columns. Now, can you quote
any politician who has changed his
coat as often as the average of
these editors ? Take your friend
Lukin, the other day. What will
he argue now while he runs the
Tory Wellington Post? Yet you
remember him breathing Radicalism
and Republicanism of the reddest
brands. Take Gullett. After over
a dozen years of the high Conserva-
tism of the Argus company he flared
out as a democratic assistant-editor
of the then go-ahead people’s papers,
the Sydney Telegraph and Tri-
bune. This did not work smoothly,
so he passed smilingly over to the
Conservative Herald. Take Ward :
Well, Ward passed from Radical -
Churohism to the Herald, from the
Herald to the Democratic Tele-
graph, and back again to the Con-
servative Courier. And take his
friend, Buzacott. Buzacott was a
roaring lion among the miners at
Clermont one time, denouncing
squatters in every issue, but when
he bought a squatter paper in Rock-
hampton he moderated his tone, and
gradually flowered out as managing
head of the Tory Courier. And so
on. When you newspaper fellows
rate us for turning our coats, will
you, for God’s sake, just look around
you?”
In Sydney G.P.O. is a room set apart
specially as the meeting-place of the “ Post Office
Christian Association.” Once a month the
Christian brethren meet, and Postmaster-General
Cook steps in to help the good work along as
chairman. Some time ago, in an address, he made
the statement that in his opinion there was no such
thing as luck—the best men invariably came out
on top. This from a man whose public life has
been a succession of lucky accidents ! The illness
of the Rev. Smailes, just before the election when
Cook was put up as a makeshift, is a fair sample
of many remembersome items.
At Omeo, Vie., local lawyers had estab-
lished a common-sense practice of officiating in
court without gowns and horsehair bangs, till
Judge Gaunt, the puffy, purple County Court
man, came along and insisted on the usual Guy
Fawkes business. ‘ ‘ These little appearances must
always be respected,” he says. Judge Gaunt, too,
of all the Vic. Judges, looks most ridiculous in
his wig—like something skinned with a little of
the hide and wool left on. Let his Honor look
into a mirror.
Yarn told of “ Joe ” Walford, of Sydney,
who lately died immensely rich. When the Aus-
tralian Gaslight Co. started business, “Joe’’was
one of the first to have gas laid on to his house.
After the first quarter “Joe” did not like the
light, and turned off the gas at the meter. The
co.’s man came round and read the meter, and
“ Joe ” received an account for the second quarter
which showed that he was still using gas at a great
rate. “ Joe ” went down to the co.’s office to ex-
postulate, but he was met with the explanation
that the meter “couldn’t lie.” He accordingly
paid up, and immediately sold off nearly all his
property and bought gas shares, and when he died
he was one of the biggest shareholders. “ Directly
I found what accurate and truthful little affairs the
meters were,” he used to say, “I saw money in
the business.”
Once, when his chronic financial distress
was keener than usual, Parkes applied to one
of the friends who always stuck by him, with a
pitiful tale of his necessities. This gentleman,
who had helped him before, wrote out a good-sized
cheque and gave it to the old man to keep the
wolf from his door. Shortly afterwards, being at
a shop in George-street, Parkes was taken by a
fine oil-painting which he ordered should be sent
home, without enquiring the price. The owner of
the picture, putting a little “on” for the cus-
tomer’s reputation, suggested that he would like
to be paid before delivery, on which Parkes gave
him the cheque, and received a very little change.
A couple of days after, the donor, a well-known
business man, happened to call at the dealer’s,
when he was informed incidentally that a cheque
of his had been passed through and told the nature
of the purchase—his ideas of the necessities of life
receiving a little enlargement.
Apropos of Judge Windeyer’s commenda-
tion of the Californian system, under which coun-
sel are restricted to one hour in which to state a
case or reply, it is interesting to recall that in the
Mount Rennie “ trial ” (involving the lives of
eleven prisoners, nine of whom w'ere sentenced to
death and four hanged) Judge Ventosior occupied
ten hours straightaway in his summing-up—this in
the presence of a jury that was, and must neces-
sarily have been, half-asleep. For it had sat from,
nine o’clock on Friday morning until half-past three
on Saturday morning, and this after being caged up
for four days, night and day. And at nine o’clock
on the same Saturday morning it was brought
back to Court to proceed with one of the most
shameful farces ever perpetrated in the name
of civilisation; at 11.30 on that Saturday night
(i.e., after sitting for thirty-eight and a-half hours
with an intermission of five and a-half hours only !)
it found its death-verdict. Apropos, what is the
N.S.W. Ministry doing about the Mount Rennie
prisoners ? Does it still fear offending that great
social god, the overbearing Mr. Justice Windeyer?
Peart, the diver, recently killed at Fitz-
geralds’Circus in Sydney, was full of madcap tricks,
which generally manifested themselves on his
spring-board. One night in Maoriland he made
this quaint speech: “ Ladies and Gentlemen, —
Some people say that I hold my breath all the way
down into the water. But I don’t; and, to show
you I don’t, I will sing a comic song all the way
down.” He then took a couple of long breaths,
and as he plunged he sang “ Two lovely black ”
plop into the water. Once, in Brisbane, he was
hauled up to the tiny platform and when just getting
ready to dive two of the guys broke, leaving him
suspended in air with his leg twisted round a wire
rope. A rope was sent up, but he refused to come
down to it —“he never came down that way
and men ascended to refix the platform. “Send
me a cigarette,” he called ; and one was sent up
the rope to him. He smoked until the platform
was fixed and strongly guyed. Then, before he
sprang off, he said ‘ ‘ Here goes ! ” and as he de-
scended he exclaimed “Mine’s whisky and”
plop into the water ! He had a most extraordinary
nerve, and knew no fear.


Wet Weather
Is Dry Weather
If you wear
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-st., Sydney.
Callaghan’s Boots.
Some Hannan’s prices since the railway
has reached Coolgardie —Bread, 8d. per 21b. loaf ;
jam, Is. 4d. per tin ; butter, Is. lOd. per lb.; con-
densed milk, lid. per tin; potatoes, rice, and
sugar, 5d. per lb.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
quyer of all other Australian gems.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
A Port Melbourne pub. has for licensee
one William Swigs.
BILIOUSNESS, LOSS OF APPETITE,
and general debility.—“ In testifying to the value
of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt,’ I have great pleasure in
pronouncing it to be a most efficacious remedy in
cases of biliousness, loss of appetite, and general
debility. I have tried all kinds of Saline at differ-
ent times, but none of them have afforded me that
speedy and lasting relief which makes such a
feature in your ‘Fruit Salt.’ You are free to
use this letter in any way you may think most
convenient. It comes quite unsolicited, and many
of my friends are willing to endorse the remarks
made therein. S.G.S., Epping, Essex.” Caution.
—Examine each bottle, and see the capsule is
marked “Eno’s Fruit Salt.” Without it you
have been imposed on by a worthless imitation.
Sold by all chemists and stores. *
MIND
YOU GET
WOLFE’S
The Only
REAL
GHNAPPS.
Change your mind.
Next time try
MARK FOY’S,
whose goods are delivered free all over Sunny New South Wales
BY RAIL AND BOAT.
Sit down and write for list of prices.
’Twill be many a long year before you change your mind again.
The Boon? 'll7 ArpateGr Photography . ■
-IS ALL OWING TO
\ m.
Snap-Shot. Size, 2in. by I£.
Tlie
Pocket
Kodak
A Complete
Camera
on a
Small Scale.
NOT
A
TOY!
m
V
'
Snap-Shot. Size, 2in. by I|.
PRIC€ LOAP€D FOR TWELVE (12) EXPOSURES,
ONE GUINEA
(£1 Is)
Mounts for
Pocket Kodak Pictures,
4d. per doz.
. Size, 2in. by I|.
Country Postage, Is. EXTRA.
Extra Spool for 12 Exposures, Is. 6d.
Or in Boxes of 4 Spools, ss. 6d.
Sydney Depot for Tbe Pocket Kodak,
WHERE INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN IN DEVELOPING GRATIS,
BAK€R & ROUS€ Limited,
875 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
Spools Developed, Is. 6d.
-
■ '''
Jjsi"" -' V W*\±
Snap-Shot. Size, 2in. by I|.
z§a fjollins-street, ||)elbourne; 65 Bundle-street, Adelaide; 81 Queen street, Brisbane.
The Enghsh Bar Committee has concluded
that in future no barrister who happens to be the
son of a Judge is to appear in any case which that
J udge shall hear.
Perth (W.A.) Town Hall was designed by
a convict, who, satirical dog, cunningly worked
the broad-arrow into the stone work of the
window.
Then the stark, unmerciful dawn,
That follows dishonor’s dusk,
The fulness and flavor withdrawn,
She holds to her heart a husk.
COTSFORD DICK.


100,000 SHARES OF £i EACH.
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
Sudneg Giig ai SiuiDan FILEIILD
/
sth Prize —£4,800,
273 Prizes
REGISTERED ADDRESS—
“TATTERSALL,”
care of George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.
Please, allot me Shares in your
GREAT PROPERTY DISTRIBUTION. 100,000 at 20/-
X a me - ——
A'ltlress
l
* . " .......... .- >^'
Bth Prize—£3,soo,
Each Subscriber will have a chance of 16 prizes.
!
§gp> ,% i
J ;
ggS'T'W '»fj^v-
mm?M
m m .', ; i iSfe?*
I
-
- -
S’***
The FIRST PRIZE consists of BOTH ot these Fine Properties
..
>
TO
n ■*
sbks
:■
tL.
Large Warehouse—George Street.
Two Splendid Brick Stores—Kent Street.
FIRST PRIZE - Value £28,500.
List positively closes 30th June, 1896.
.
3rd Prize —£14,500.
i S
§P
7th Prize —£3,500.
t 1
r'fULL'S
*>4
4th Priie —£6,500.
100,000 Shares
of £i Each.
Address— 44 TATTERSALL,”
c/o GEORGE ADAMS,
HOBART, TASMANIA.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £6,000,000
Paid-up . .. .. £3,955,981 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J. P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Men'res, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
IssrECTORS: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
• OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M’Cutchcon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopst/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GICOIIGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
The Universal Land & Deposit Bank
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Compann s Act of 1874.
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Fixed Deposits received at Current Rates of Interest.
2 Years, 5 per cent, per Annum.
All business arising out of R'al Estate transacted.
This Company has Never Suspended Payment or Re-
constructed in any way since its formation.
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON, Managing Director.
—THE—
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, 60 Market Street.
Cable Address— Riemsexl. Telephone No. 695.
Code—Mokeing & Nealj, eto. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarice & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS,
Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide
(Late Australasia Chambers, King William St.).
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks. Special attention given to business in Bank
Deposit Receipts.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investorj,
free on application.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the C< lonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales:
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS since commencement of the
Society exceeds
Twenty-two Millions sterling (£22,460,000)
Being an average of over a MILLION for each year of its
existenoe.
T. JAQUES MARTIN, General Manager.
PULVERMACHER
WORLD-FAMED
GALVANIC BELTS
Cure nervous weakness & brain fag,
Cure rheumatism. Gout & sciatica,
Cure liver & Kidney disorders,
Cure sleeplessness,
AND
INVIGORATE
the Debilitated constitution.
These appliances have been recommended by
several of H. M. The Queen’s Physicians, and are
prescribed by the leading medical men of the world.
Pamphlet, “ GALVANISM”—Nature’s Chief Re-
storer of Impaired Vital Energy, sent fiee anywhere.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
Electricians & Opticians, 438 George Street, Sydney
The sole agents for Australasia.
A Victorian-told story Time, 9 a.m.
Place, Sydney railway-station. Man running from
platform for ’bus is stopped by stranger, who places
half-a-crown in his hand remarking, “ I’m a Vic-
torian, and they are so beastly slow over here that
I said I would give this to the first man I saw in a
hurry.” “Thanks,” said the recipient, mounting
the bus, “ I’m a Victorian myself.”
At Emu Plains—one of the oldest N.S.W.
settlements—the rude forefathers of the hamlet
rarely used to drop off before 90 or so, and cen-
tenarians were by no means rare. Rum was their
tipple—so much so, that anyone nowadays who
wants good stiff grog and plenty of it has only
to sink a well witmn half-a-mile of the local ceme-
tery. So says G-. Republican Dibbs.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH,
gd
SGRUBB’S
Cloudy
Household
fg
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath.
Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, etc.
Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., London, England,
\NUFACTURERS OF SCRUBB’S ANTISEPTIC SKIN SOAP
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
df
ELLIOT - ! BROS., •» LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Tbe NEW LONDON COMPANY.
ART JEWELLERS,
DIAMOND MERCHANTS,
WATCH MANUFACTURERS.
w?
&
c
Irr carters of
SILVER & ELECTRO-PLATE,
CLOCKS, OPERA GLASSES, &e.
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
NEXT DOOR TO FRESH FOOD & ICE COMPANY'S TEA ROOMS
EVERYONE INTERESTED IN PHOTOGRAPHY
Is invited to visit our Large, New and Centrally-situated Premises, 66 KING STREET (near George-
street), comprising Five Flats, or to write for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of over 200
PAGES, which we post free on application. We keep the most Modern and Complete Stock of
** Photographic Materials**
And compete in Prices with any House in Australia.
We cheerfully give information and pay every attention to our Customers. Correspondence invited
from Local, Country, and Intercolonial Photographers. WE ARE HEADQUARTERS FOR
THE
POCKET
PRICE 21s,
Loaded for Twelve Exposures.
gd
KODAK.
EXTRA EXPOSURES
1/6 per Roll of 12.
YOU PRESS 'iuiJ BUTTON—WE DO THE REST.
Proprietors of The Australian Photographic Journal, illustrated, price 4d., now in its fifth year. The oldest
and only Photographic Magazine entirely edited and printed in Australia. It contains the latest and most valuable
information, and no photographer should be without it.
HARRINGTON & CO., LIMITED.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL MERCHANTS, 66 King Street (near George-st.), SYDNEY.
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd.
INCORPORATED 1870.
Directors:
Hon. G. THORNTON, M.L.C.
(Chairman.)
Db. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., J.P.
Hon. F. B. SUTTOR.
fg
ItcgiAtcri'il ii»»l«*r ili<- Couiimiilrs
Act, l> 90.
CHIEF OFFICE IN NEW SOUTH
WALES:
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES.
STRICTLY MUTUAL. ALL PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURRENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditions Liberal. Security Umtoatated.
J. M. M'CRAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,00u,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can he ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Ltd.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. .. £4,000,000
Capital Paid-up .. £1,588,760 1 1
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 161,239 18 11
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Chairman, Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Vice-Chairman, A. S. King, Esq. John Grice, Esc.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Auditors: W. H. Tuckett, Esq.;
Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grev
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branch i
throughout South Australia. Local Director: J- hu
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. A di-on. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken lIiII.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Mil’an, M.LA. Manager:
George Tirnlull. Western Australia Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Austin in. Local D rec-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £43,733 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estate', undertaken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CLARKR & CO.,
STOCK Si SHARE BROKERS,
309 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone No. 314. Melbourne.
The royal bank of Queensland
(.Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £366,351
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 300,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 30,0 JO
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Money to Lend.
I’ntTIIHK UIIIKKO KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every <£l to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over ,£2O
3d. per month for every pound over <£so
£lOO and over —Special Low Rates and Conditions,
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS
Lewis Levy, Manager,
HELMET and HAT MANUFACTURERS,
George Street, SYDNEY; and Queen Street, BRISBANE, Queensland.
df
Quaids Patent Air-Chamber Helmet
AS APPROVED AND WORN BY
the Leadinc Physicians
of Semi-Tropical Australasia.
Quaid’is Patent Kapri
REGISTERED
Air-Chamber Helmet.
The best Sum Hat ever introduced.
Perfect protection from Sunstroke,
Headache, and other ailments caused
by tropical heat.
Free by post throughout Australasia.
Covered White 21
Do. Drab Felt 2i-
&
\t
SECTION.
Quaids Patent Air-Chamber Helmet,
shewing Double Air-Chamber OroWn,
fARROWS SHOW CURRENT OF AIR TOWARDS CONC^)


as*
*t o
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Copies of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp
on “ Piles and How to Cure Them,” without
operation, by the great “Cannalin” treatment,
free on application. Depot for Australasia, 257
George Street, Sydney.*
Cold weather doesn’t send B. Mountcastle
and Sons to sleep ; it livens those famous Sydney
hatters up to show off their choice stock of latest-
pattern silk and felt toppers, Homburg headgear,
and first-quality umbrellas to any customer with
intelligence enough to pick the best and always
have the best.*
Importance of Dipping Sheep.—The import-
ance of farmers keeping their sheep free from ticks
and other parasites by dipping their flocks regu-
larly after shearing cannot be over-estimated. It
is computed that an animal kept healthy by this
useful economy will give a return of at least is. 6d.
per head more than one suffering from these para-
sites ; a clean sheep keeps in better condition, pro-
duces a heavier fleece, and one which will bring
higher value than a diseased animal. Wool-
buyers are more exacting in their selection of
wools than heretofore, and insist upon careful
preparation. The lesson of the day, taught by
depression and low prices, is that sheep-farmers
and agriculturists must regulate their operations
on a scientific basis, must turn out their products
in first-class style, and must exercise frugality and
care in every step, both of production and distri-
bution. Sheep-farmers require suitable breeds of
sheep for the country they occupy, and should
institute a thorough system of culling, dipping,
avoiding overstocking, and applying intelligence
to the sorting, skirting, and classing of the fleeces.
Under these conditions sheep-farming will pay
handsomely, even at the present low prices of
wool. Odams’ Imperial Dips (fluid and powder)
are recognised as the best. The National Wool
Company, Melbourne, are the agents.*
Renowned Physicians, and even the public are
so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S
MATICO
That the afflicted need not hesitate to use it
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young men. Grimault’s
Liquid Matico and Capsules don’t cause
stricture.
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
For the Destruction
OF ALL
Insect Pests,
KRUSE’S
lo&ecticide
IS THE
Only Reliable Agent.
CERTAIN in ACTION. QUICK in RESULTS.
Is quite Harmless to Animal Life, and can
with perfect safety be applied to DOGS
CATS, POULTRY, etc.
Preserves Clothing from the ravages of the
Moth. Destroys Aphis and Vine Caterpillar.
Far more effectual than TOBACCO SMOKE
in Ferneries.
BEWARE OF USELESS IMITATIONS,
and see that you get
Kruse’s Insecticide.
In TINS at Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s. each,
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
IF" or*
Infants, Children,
Invalids.
gd
A Complete Food in Itself.
RECOMMENDED by the HIGHEST MEDICAL
AUTHORITIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
fg
df
UJ. (I), greener’s
CELEBRATED
Pigeon Guns.
Won over £6OO in Prizes
AT
Monte Carlo this Season, 1896.
Mr. Greener is now in the colonies arranging for
the sale of GENUINE Greener Guns through
local dealers. Should there be any difficulty in
obtaining full particulars, write at once direct to
W. W. GREENER,
Box 326 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
116 Pitt Street, SYDNEY (opposite G.P-O.).
The Original Cash Fielder y
WRit*
0 uimissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughout
the World.
STARTING PRICE -20 to 1 Limit on all Horse races.
Telegraphic Code—" Westbrook, Sydney.” Telephone
No. 1542.
ritestsafS-Uli
ii inniirrm
ttttiiffini
171 OR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
- ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT," situated 63l
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the oilier is
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Paluee," situated 5t
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. ECUS.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
It will be noticed (says The Bulletin’s London
correspondent) that amongst the fixtures arranged for the
Australian team the name of Middlesex is conspicuously
absent. This, no doubt, is due to the Walker-Webbe influ-
ence. All the years I can remember, the Middlesex club
has been most antagonistic to Australian cricketers—for
what reason it is difficult to say, for no people have been
better treated during their visits down under than some
of the leading lights of the County. Webbe was enter-
tained like a prince when he was out with Lord Harris’s
team, and the hospitality shown to R. D. and I. D. Walker
could not be exceeded, whilst one need only recall the
visits of Stoddart to know that he was right royally en-
tertained and received everywhere. V. E. Walker is
almost rabid in his dislike for Australians, a dislike which
little Bannerman’s brusque way of speaking when he had
a grievance did much to keep alive. I remember, when
there was some question about unfair rolling of the ground
on the Oval, how Alec, spoke his mind, much to Walker’s
disgust, and the writer of this has never been forgiven for
the part he took in the matter on that occasion. How-
ever, the Middlesex people will be the losers, for they
would have a big gate for any fixture against the Austra-
lians, who can well afford to ignore the shoddy swelldom
of the county.
* * * *
Australia has never before had such solid reason
for “blowing” over Our Boys, nevertheless it doesn’t
appear to be blowing at all this time. The match with
Yorkshire, coming after the Australians’ big score against
a decent England Eleven, makes out Trott and Co. to be
rather better than the best that have gone ’Ome before
them. They have their “ unexpected defeats ” to come,
no doubt, but whatever may happen between now and the
first test-match, it will not be 2 to 1 on the other fellows.
Thus far, the Australians haven’t met with any new
slogger or bowler of an appalling character. If there are
no recent additions to the front rank of English cricketers
the beastly colonials will want a lot of shaking off. Mean-
while, of course, the local men, who have had a long
winter to get through, are not quite on level terms with
the visitors, whose break between two cricket seasons was
an invigorating six weeks on the briny.
* * * *
It would be idle to prophesy that the Austra-
lians’ doings up to date augur a beating for All England.
The extinction of Yorkshire by an innings and 8 runs is
valuable only in showing how a fast and a slow bowler
working in conjunction can mix up a real strong side.
Jones’s express volleys from one end, and Giffen’s donkey-
droppers from the other, gained for each bowler nine
wickets altogether. Mold and Briggs’s bowling for Lan-
cashire against Aus. in the second innings affords a similar
instance. Six wickets fell for 68 runs, and but for
Gregory’s 54 and Trumble’s 30 the Aus. second innings
would have been dismal. As it is, 139 runs isn’t over-gay.
* * * »
Much of the strength of the Aus. bowling is in
the weakness of the opposing batsmen, and, good as the
Aus. bowling may be deemed on its present form, the first
six batsmen of All-England—Grace, Stoddart, Abel, Jack-
son, Ranjitsinghi, Ward or Gunn —will take all the sting
out of it on a good wicket. And such a combination of
English bowling as Richardson, Mold, Peel, Attewell or
Briggs, with Grace and Jackson thrown in, will get the
Australians out quite soon enough.
* * * *
That 243 of Grace’s for Gloucestershire against
Surrey is the more noteworthy because no English side
has yet scored 200—190 was the highest—in a completed
innings against the Aus. Eleven.
• # * *
Giffen of all men must applaud Jonah’s success.
Richardson and Mold gave Giffen real Sheol on fiery
wickets last tour. The great George’s method of standing
with a foot of daylight between his legs and wicket
brought forth a sneer from Alcock, sec. Surry C.C. :
“Fast howling has never been to the taste of the Aus-
tralians on English wickets.” Now Giffen’s retort comes :
“Encore Jonah.”
The new batsmen of the Aus. Eleven speak
well for the cold-water scheme. Darling has been right
on the job; Donnan and Hill have proved they went
'Ome to play cricket. Iredale, however, has done nothing
except his 67 against Lancashire.
Names scarcely breathed up to date—Johns,
M'Kibbin, Eady.
So far, the Australians’ tour has been meri-
torious from a cricket standpoint, and a banner-and-
trumpet tour from the point of advt. and biz. Getting an
all-England side out for 39, defeating Yorkshire by an
innings, and Lancashire by 154 runs will draw much gate.
The Aus. bowling has sent every side to the right-about
for less than 200 in any completed innings.
Rock-em-in Jonah was a fair bowler here, but in
England he seems to have found his happy hunting-
ground. The English hearts of oak must quail before
Jonah’s wind-jammers Nothing so persuades a batsman
to quit as a cannon-sbot bowler who takes a rib if he
cannot get a stump. The Almighty took a rib to make a
woman out of a man, and the bowler who takes a rib
makes a woman of a man also.
* * * *
Crack bat Jackson didn’t play for his Yorkshire
county against the Australians. He is said to be a
superior sort of person, who gets offended on slight pro-
vocation, and stops away in consequence. “ Jammy ”
Jackson was his title at school.
* * * *
Frank Walters, who can bowl despite his 15st.,
bald head, and refreshment business, heads the South
Sydney club’s bowling averages with 11 runs per wicket.
Walters was also second to Donnan in the batting averages
for interprovincial matches. Were the Queensland game
included the burly rep. would have been on top. Apropos,
why isn’t the Queensland fixture an interprovincial one ?
Are the Bananalanders merely vagrants ?
* * * *
At time of writing, Clem. Hill had scored
double figures in all his English matches. He and Darling
have six double-figure scores, Giffen five, Trott and Iredale
four, Gregory, Donnan and Trumble three. Scores so
far—Darling 336, Gregory 248, Hill 221, Giffen 201, Trott
183, Donnan 111, Trumble 100.
* * * *
Like a good many Australian singers and others
(says The Bulletin’s London correspondent), Paris 111.
suffers from the injudicious adulation of unthinking
friends ; hence his starting at 2 to 1 in the Great Metro-
politan Stakes at Epsom although he carried the welter-
weight of 9.9, which, even allowing for the “proverbial
ease of the Epsom gradients,” takes carrying. Watts
rode the little horse, and seemed to come too soon in a
fast-run race; and though he looked as if the race was
over at two miles, and the bookies were calling out “ ten
to one on the favorite,” the little chap shut up like a
knife and tailed off at once, much to the disgust of
backers. Of course, after the event everybody discovered
that Mrs. White’s horse cannot stay two miles and a-
quarter, but I saw no marked signs of disappointment
on the faces of his party. It was remarked that his
rider, Watts, has ridden the horse in all the races he has
lost.
* * * »
Caulfield and Melb. Cup entries look well nu-
merically, but comprise the usual crowd of doubtful
starters, cronk-legged ’uns, and the like, including a prad
named Shoddy, which well describes the greater propor-
tion of the draft. Wallace goes for the two miles only,
and after the declaration of weights sporting-talk for the
next few months will consist mostly of Wallace and his
weight, and his dad and all the rest of it. N.S.W. has
unusually large representation in both events, but the
M.L. cracks—Euroclydon, Gipsy Grand, and Fatalist—
don’t appear on the list, while Auraria is already a has-
been.
* * * *
: Redleap’s nomination for the Yic. G.N. Hurdles
and Steeple will give the adjuster something to start his
lists with. Flat-racing Preston is in the Hurdles as well
as the Cups, and Pivot is also given a treble-barrelled
show. Of the two M.L. entries, Mutiny has been here
before, while Tiritea is one of the medium sort, owned by
a Maori.
* * * *
Pony Iduna, entered for Caulfield Cup, should
have a nice chance. Sydney sports haven’t ceased talking
yet about Grand Clogs being taken over for Brisbane Cup,
and since little Paris came to the surface the owner of
every smart miniature thinks he has a Caulfield Cup-
winner, and flatters himself accordingly.
When ill-fortuned Response looked a dead moral
in the straight for Sydney Birthday Cup, everybody
wondered if anything would flash up as usual and beat
her home. The lightly-burdened favorite, neither shirking
nor swerving, came along amid yells and, giving the mare
a bitter finishing pill, just outed her. Then unlucky Dan
O’Brien, for about the twelfth time lately, said “ Well,
I’m blowed ! ”
* * * »
The vicissitudes that have marked the career of
the 500-guinea Captain didn’t deter the patient Kelso
stable from taking money about their well-bred neddy for
Sydney Birthday Cup. A wait of nearly three years to
recoup original outlay and sundries was rather long, and
then the doubtful grit of the alleged fraud had to stand
trial. This was successfully tested in a, pinching tussle
when he paired-off with O’Brien’s star of ill-luck. By no
means first-class, the Captain will likely be well supported
for Caulfield Cup by punters before the winter’s out.
One non-starter for Sydney Royal Stakes caused
the laying fraternity much anxiety. The moke’s crowd
have a cute reputation, and Ikey was frightened. The
stable bit not being forthcoming at a good price, it was
decided to scratch. Even then the books wouldn’t
lengthen out and rope in the public. It savored too
much of the tactics pursued with the last Doncaster
winner. So they let the doubtful chance slide. Punters
who had snapped early tens wept in silence.
* * * »
A half-fuddled Randwick visitor put J>3 on
Thor, at eights, and stuck the ticket in his hat-band. He
was so elated by success that he waved his hitter wildly,
the ticket dropped out—and someone else collected £27
from a sour-looking bookie.
* * * ♦
Sydney Tattersall’s flash Grand National Steeple
(150 sovs. gross value) was a slow affair, and none of the
horses fell. Skipwith’s M.L. prad, Othello, got home
with Grandwing, and won on the post. Maoriland Bally-
hooley annexed the event last year.
* * * *
The first three in Tatt.’s Winter Stakes were
practically unbacked, and Ikey Mo smiled serenely.
Coo-ee was pushed home at too smart a pace for the
crowd ; Royal Rose, a one-time lame ’un, and Wyalong
dead-heating. The latter is by Trident, who, by the way,
has never got anything as good as himself at the stud.
* * * *
The victory of Huret over a big field on Satur-
day won’t be easily forgotten by those who saw it. A
number of the field were palpably stiff, but the time was
good. There seems no reason why this young Cranbrook
shouldn’t stay out distance runs when pitted against the
best of his.year in the spring.
• * * *
Sir William, second in Malvolio’s Melb. Cup,
now appears in “ The Derby Winner,” at Sydney Royal.
A congenial game for a played-out neddy. The turf’s a
stage and jockeyed equines merely players.
* * * ♦
Punters are already discussing Ike Foulsham’s
Chevalier for Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
English steeplechaser Cloister’s remarkable re-
covery is alleged to be the result of large draughts of new
milk !
* * * *
Manifold’s Grand National string now includes
Waterloo, Dungan, Veronica, Apsley, Geometry, Elva,
Pivot, and several others. A good hand.
* * * *
M.L. Premier Seddon and the racing bosses
can’t agree re tote. The racing bosses want to limit its
use to their own particular domains, but Seddon wishes
to make it generally available. Same game was tried on
with Vic. Betting-Suppression Bill. Frank Madden
wanted legalised betting restricted to clubs racing under
V.R.C. rules.
* • * *
Gollan’s Ebor put up his third English win on
April 23. He carried list. 51b. three miles for a £220
prize in the Ludlow county steeplechase.
* * * *
In future, Adelaide street-bettors (when caught)
are to be arrested—not summoned.
* * * *
Hova, now lame, has raced long enough for a
rest. The champion has never been sent off his legs on
the track, however, not requiring it. He belongs to the
class that can be got ready for a Cup in five minutes.
* * » *
If the time is correct, The Merry Boy’s 3min.
ssec. for Adelaide handicap shows him to be no slouch.
Cook’s colt is a possible dangerous Cup neddy. But his
last week’s success won’t compensate owner Sam for the
knock-out of the brilliant Harvester.
» ♦ * *
Half-a-dozen sailors, patrons of the Leger, at
Randwick, backed The Captain for the Cup, and stood by
the bookie the whole time until their choice won and the
cash was handed over. A welsher would have had little
chance with that crowd.
» * * »
The Melb. anti-cyclists, who are holding meet-
ings and conferences all over the smellful city, have drawn
up 18 pp. of new by-laws applying especially to cyclists,
which they want Premier Turner to incorporate in the
Police Offences Statute.
* * * *
Ex-sculler Neil Matterson came out of his shell
and won both the Princess and second-class handicaps at
Melb. Theatrical Carnival. Neil was a rather neat rider
when he pedalled a low gear ; but he jumps on the pedals
of the high-gear machine he now rides in most elephantine
fashion. He put in four half-mile sprints in the heats and
finals of the races he won, which took all the steel out of
the fast finishers ; Middleton (gamest and most ungainly
of riders) was the only one to persevere in the hopeless
pursuit. Mattelson’s win was very popular. He has
hitherto been very unfortunate in Melbourne, but has
always given the public a good run.
* * * *
It is probable that Sydney has seen the last of
Matterson as a resident, he having identified himself with
the Melbourne-manufactured Dux machine. Martin has
cast in his lot with the same firm ; Pither goes over to the
Rudge-Whitworth in June ; Porta has joined the Electra;
and Harris has returned ’Ome. Which seems to leave
the once all-powerful Humber without a local back-mark
representative.
* * ♦ *
Understood that Harris will return to Australia
for next racing season; but this can hardly be the
Leicester man’s intention, as he knew that by racing
against trotter Osterley he forfeited any right to race
under league rules again.
* * * *
G. Morrah, a six-foot novice of much promise
and magnificent physique, was the “ snip ” for the Princess
Theatrical Handicap, and was going well when a rider
fell in front of him. Morrah came down and skidded
along the asphalt on his head, one of his ears being nearly
severed. Porta fell in his heat through his tyre blowing-
out. The Italian insists upon having his tyres hard as
iron, and has suffered many times this season therefrom.
Luckily he was behind, and injured no one but himself.
* » ♦ *
Rumored that the flyer M‘Leod, with something
approaching 100 American races to his credit last season,
will be in Australia in the spring to ride for the crowd he
represents on a 16}41b. Yankee jigger.
* * * #
“Phormi” predicts to The Bulletin that in
two years or less 90 per cent, of Melb. racing-men will be
riding either American or locally-made machines. The
talk of the dressing-room, he says, points emphatically to
this.
Gameness doesn’t pay. M'Lean, by sheer
pluck, won the 25 miles Vic. championship, and was at
once brought back 40yds. in a two-mile handicap, from a
mark off which he could not previously get a place in his
heat.
* * * »
Lou. Sharp, who has kept in championship
form, or near it, for over a dozen years, having got
married, has retired from the track. Greenwood (cham-
pion before Megson, Parsons, and co. could feed them-
selves) is still winning from back-marks. Fitzgerald, who
has rowed, cycled, and athleted generally for about 20
years, also retains his vigor and is still in the first-class
division. It seems, despite the appearances of a few
months ago, as though cyclists who take reasonable care
of themselves will, as a class, retain racing-form much
longer than any other athletic clan. Many Melb. racing-
men are well into the thirties. One beginner, who lost
his novice status lately by winning a handicap in splendid
style, is the father of eight children, and was married in
’B3. Another has his nearlv grown-up son as trainer.
* * * *
Yankee Martin shone again at Parramatta last
Saturday. “Bill” is triumphing now, but how does he
feel in his heart about next season? It is a marvel how
he keeps his form so long. What a living lesson on steady
living he is to all athletes ! Also, what a lesson on the
desirableness of having had the sort of ancestors who fit
you out with a heavy jaw and other physical fittings to
match.
* * * *
The amateur boxing competitions at St. James’s
Hall, Piccadilly (writes an Australian in England to The
Bulletin) were poor indeed, and evidenced the decay
of the noble art here. Three-fourths of the entries looked
as if they couldn’t fight, and didn’t want to, and only two
or three had anything but a “ left.” A smart boy, Jones
—whom Pluto would eat first and play the Dead March
over afterwards —retained the bantamship ; Gunn doubt-
fully kept the feather. A Dutchman, Vanderhout, showed
more than his race’s proverbial courage, and punched his
opponents out, and himself to the light-weight champion-
ship ; whilst Ross won the middle creditably for such a
light ’un. The heavy-weights provided but one bout and
the only sensational “go” of the competition. An Edin-
burgh University 75-incher met Captain Johnstone, the
holder, and was all over him in the first two rounds. If
he had had any kind of a decent “ right” he must have
won then. The captain, a showy, muscular man, had a
very powerful right, and shoved it home three times in
succession in the third round. Then, while his lengthy
opponent stood helplessly dazed, looking like a crow-
blinded lamb, the noble captain hit him a terrible blow
behind the left ear. Down came the slab with his head
between his shoulders on the floor, and he was counted
out.
* * * *
“Torpedo ” Murphy is not the only Australian
pug. who has gone back to hard work. Peter Newton
has for some time been at his trade (bootmaking) in a
Collingwood factory. Peter was one of the very best
until Burke, “the Irish lad,” beat him. As a second he
had no equal. His last appearance in the square circle
was some few years ago, when he downed his old instruc-
tor, Hicken, at the M.A.C.
« » • *
London Referee received 18,000 guesses at the
result of the Grand National Steeplechase. Not one
guesser named the winner Soarer, and only seven of the
amateur prophets fancied him for a “ place.” Now, what
sort of dividend would Soarer have paid to Tote backers ?
* » * *
Asked Cataract’s price straight-out for the Sell
ing Steeple at the first day of the A.R.C. Birthday meet-
ing, a bookie —they call ’em “ totalisator-investment
agents” in Adelaide —replied “12 to 1.” The tote paid a
div. of £22 9s. Then the books wanted 4 to lon about
Hova for the w.f.a. race—the Parkside Stakes. The tote
paid a div. at 5 to 3 on.
* * * •
The University-Wallaroo Rugby game on Satur-
day was a bull-dog battle between old enemies. After a
frantic effort to win on either side, it resulted in a eleven-
point tie. The Wallaroos played the better game, however,
their superb passing nonplussing their opponents. Pass-
ing is the point in Rugby. A selfish player shouldn’t be
given a place in a team. Pirates went under to Went-
worths by 11 to love, skipper Brlly Warbrick being as good
as sixteenth man to the winners. Wentworth’s game, in
fact, appeared to be confined mostly to Warbrick. Rand-
wicks had an afternoon’s exercise with Paddington, win-
ning by 47 to 5.
» • » *
St. Kilda F. C., cocksure of beating Essendon,
looked like doing it till the last quarter. Then, though
Essendon had one goal more, there was naught to choose
between either twenty ; but, with its old-time dash, Essen-
don added six goals while St. Hilda dazedly looked on.
Present form preserved, Essendon should easily be pre-
miers.
* * * *
To-day’s (Saturday) Melb. football, on behalf of
local charities, includes three 40-minute games—Essen-
don v. Collingwood and South v. Port Melb., the winners
in each game playing off for a £lO prize. Innovations in-
clude experiments with boundary-umpires, 10yds. mark
limit, and goal-bars 10ft. from ground.
* „ * * *
In the wood-chopping and sawing matches at
Maclean, N.S.W., the Tasmanians, Macpherson and Moore,
easily defeated their N.S.W. opponents. The Tasmanian
wood-chopping fraternity, by the way, are about to pre-
sent an axe to Gladstone. What would be of even more
interest to the old man would be some of the colossal
wood-chips made to fly at the chopping matches in Rasp-
berry Land.


“ A bottle of whisky will convert the
savage sooner than a haystaok of Bibles.” — Wink
Trade Review.
Henry Lawson’s book of collected verses,
containing all his best Bulletin poems, may be
had post-free from this office for ss. sd. in stamps
or postal-notes of any pro vince.
A tiny spark, which will soon grow a live
red coal too hot and big to be carelessly handled :
With whom lies the patronage under which solici-
tors are employed to prosecute for the Crown or
for the officers of a public department in police-
court cases? Is it seemly to crowd an M.L.A.
solicitor with work of this class ? Consequent and
cognate questions are innumerable.
Premier Turner was the most unassuming
figure at Gov. Brassey’s Birthday Levee. While
Democrat Deakin blazed with gold, and numerous
swaggering “oil’d and curl’d Assyrian bulls smell-
ing of musk and impudence ” clanked their swords
and spurs, and the Bishop flapped his lawn sleeves,
and the R.C. Archbishop waggled his purple
cassock, and fat, hairy pastor Bevan strutted in a
chaplain’s uniform—the Premier, in a plain dress-
suit without even silk revers, allowed himself to be
shoved at the back, and could only be seen when
the Bishop lifted his flour-bag-sleeved arms to
scratch his head. Turner really hates show.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Democrat Deakin, M.P., in a gorgeous
diplomatic uniform, was the spectacle of Gov.
Brassey’s birthday levee. Premier Turner turned
up in the plainest possible attire, but Alfred was
littered with frills and embossed with gold all
over. Seeing that dazzling rig-out, one wonders
more than ever at Deakin’s refusal of a knight-
hood, and sadly concludes that if the “ distinc-
tion ” were offered again he would grab -with both
hands —if not with his feet also, like a Chinese
cabinet-maker. “ That Deakin ? ” said a compara-
tive stranger, who had asked about the potentate
in gold and many other colors —“I thought it
must be Peacock.”
A BEAUTIFUL WHEEL.
Light, Strong, and Swift—the embodiment of all desirable
features in cycle construction. Such are the ’96
The wheels for people of good taste —THE STANDARD
OF THE WORLD. We are opening second shipment of
’96 models, all styles.
The <3R€VILL€
is built tor our trade by-
leading’ American manu-
facturers, who claim that it is “ a strictly high-grape wheel
at a moderate price.” It can give points to many so-called
high-grade wheels. We have “GREVILLE’S” for the
whole family—from father down to little four-year-old.
Prices, £lO 10s. to £2O. “GREVILLE SPECIAL,” Men’s
or Ladies’, £l4. Weights from 281 b. down. We shall be
glad to see you.
GREVILLE TURNER LTD.,
City Cycle Exchange,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Commercial Hanking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Bibbs, Esq,, General Manager.
Auditors:
Sir W. P. Manning, Esq.. Edward Chisholm, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
Xiondon Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Medical.
CASCARA-HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUCEB CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR'S COCA WINE. Tonic Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
YOUNG
AND OLD
HEN
If you are discouraged by the failure of cure-alls and
unskilled treatment, consult the eminent specialist,
Dr. Walsh, L.R.C.P. & S., Ed., a legally qualihed
and registered physician, who guarantees to cure
each and every case he undertakes.
No Stomach Drugging
Consultation and Diagnosis free.
“THE BRIGHT SIDE”
A valuable
illustrated
medical work on brain and nerve exhaustion
and its cure, by Dr. Walsh, sent sealed—six stamps.
All communications confidential.
Address : DR. G. WALSH, 51 Hunter St., Sydney.
Dr. George On Lee,
CHINESE DOCTOR,
S 3 Carlton Terrace, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
All persons suffering from any internal diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have them dispersed
bv medicine without cutting ; also cures bad eyes, tits,
skin diseases, diphtheria and piles. He asks no questions,
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs his
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise Has
practised 26 years in Sydney. Cunsultation fee, 10s. bd.
Business Announcements.
“FITS LIKE A GLOVE."
THOMSON’S
TRADE
gd
MA.RS
J.FITS LIKE
GOTE
"CLOVE-FITTING"
CORSET
The Perfection of Shape
Finish, and Durability.
APPROVED by the
whole polite world.
Annual Sale over
One Million
Pairs.
To be had o? all Dealers
throughout the World.
Twelve First Medals.
MANUFACTURERS.
W. S. THOMSON & CO., LTD., LONDON.
See that every Corset is marked “THOMSON’S GLOVE-
FITTING,” and bears our Trade Mark, the Crown.
No others are genuine.
WORLD-WIDE POPULARITY!
fcuuuc
EXTRA CONCENTRATED. I
«*!s>
Blossoms
177 MEW BOHD STLONDON
THE DELICIOUS
PERFUME
CRAB APPLE
BLOSSOMS
AND THE
CROWN
LAVENDER
SALTS.
ANNUAL SALES EX-
CEED 600,000 BOTTLES
jAvenderSat
ROWH PERFUMERrCOMPAt
No articles of the toilet have ever been produced which have
been received with the enthusiasm which has greeted the
Crab Apple Blossom Perfume »-nd the Crown Lavender
Salts. They are literally the delight of two continents, ;ind
are as eagerly sought in New York and Paris as in London.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE CROWN PERFUMERY CO.,
177, New Bond Street, London.
R. P. MORTON,
Special Shirt Maher
And MERCER,
STRAND,
195 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
piTZGERALD BROTHERS’
—HUGE-*
COMBINED SHOWS.
THE LONDON COMPANY.
Itjonster Circus * menagerie
The 2nd Grand Change of Programme
Received with demonstrations of approval
and delight by enthusiastic audiences.
TO-NIGHT and Every Evening at EIGHT,
The Same Popular Programme.
DOORS OPEN at SEVEN O’OL3CK.
Performance at Eight.
Seats may be reserved at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, George-street.
SPECIAL TRAMS from all SUBURBS to the
doors run at short intervals up to 8, and at the
conclusion of the performance.
Prices—4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and One Shilling.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Children, 6d. to all parts—Matinees only.
'J'HE WAXWORKS, MELBOURNE.
Vast Collection of Life-like representations of celebrated
and notorious characters, to which have been JUST
ADDED figures of the most prominent
STATESMEN OF THE DAY
(Salisbury, Chamberlain).
INTERESTING CONGERIES of HISTORICAL CURIOS.
Glassblowing- by Mr. C. A. Woodroffe.
PROF. CUNARD and his Music d and Magical Troupe.
Admission—ONE SHILLING. Children, SIXPENCE.
iiSataa
The poor Barmaid having'
a little hit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
Mdm. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
SYDNEY
Amusements-
JHEATKB ROY A L,
PERFECT REALISATION of SUPERLATIVENESS!
bland holt’s
Colossal Drury Lane Sporting Drama,
66 The Derby Winner.”
A Combination of
SHOWY. FASCINATING, POWERFUL TABLEAUX.
THE LIFE OF LIFE VIVIDLY REPRESENTED.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. Hox Plan at Elvy’s. Day
Tickets at Power’s.
TYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson and
Must; rove.
MAGNETIC SUCCESS of A. M. PALMER and W. A.
BRADY’S COMPANY.
F.VERY
EVENING!
u T B T T> V! > ’
® @5(3? ©*
EVERY
EVENING!
By Paul M. Potter and Geo. Du Maurier.
Box Plan at Nicholson & Go’s and A. Hordern & Sons’,
Haymarket. Prices as Usual. Day Tickets at Adams’.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Farewell Performances by the Brough-Boucicault Comedy
Company, prior to approaching dissolution of partnership.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
“The Benefit of the Doubt.”
SATURDAY, MON., TUES.—“AN IDEAL HUSBAND.”
Wed., Thurs., Fri.—Tub NOTORIOUS MRS. EBBSMITH.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
QENTENARY HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING !
FLYING FAREWELL TOUR
OF THE
R'v-Cbarl'S Clark
NEW LECTURE ENTERTAINMENT.
St. Paul’s,
Or the DOME OE THE GOLDEN CROSS;
AND
NEW DICKENS ENTERTAINMENT.
QUEENSLAND—Brisbane Opera House, Monday, June 22.
Rockhampton, &c., to follow.
See future advertisements. R. S. SMYTHE.
Tivoli theatre, sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Hairy Jtickards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
GO High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is; Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjTiHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO.
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
'pHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE-
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. C. B. Westmacott
Treasurer and Bus. Manager .. Mr. Frank Barnes.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
Grand Revival, on an Elaborate Scale, of
THE SILVER. KIIM G-.
Box Plan at Allan's. POPULAR PRICES.
■pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS-
“IN TOWN.”
SATURDAY, June 2, Grand Production of Shakespeare’s
“AS YOU LIKE IT.”
Bex Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
National and Agricnltnral Industrial
Association of Queensland.
TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL EXHIBITION.
BRISBANE:
AUGUST 11th to 14th, 1896.
Prize Schedule and Entry Forms on Application to
Henry C. Wood, Secretary.
~ 111 E TWO” WALTZ—Dedicated by special
VV permission to Lord and Lady Hampden. Just
published and well received. Played by Permanent
Artillery Band. Price 2s. All Musicsellers.
St CLASS.
The Roniseh Piano.
A Bargain for the Buyer and a joy to the Musician.
SOLE AGENTS :
NICHOLSON & CO.,
348 George-st Sydney (next Equitable Building).
WE PAY HIGHEST PRICES IN CASH for
KA N GAROO SKIN S,
GEO. WILCOX & CO.,
9 Young Street,
CIRCULAR QUAY,
SYDNEY.
WALLABY SKINS,
RABBIT SKIMS,
OPOSSUM & BEAR SKINS.
NO COMMISSIONS DEDUCTED.
PAYMENT RETURNED SAME DAY SKINS RECEIVED.
Write fo* - Price Xjiat.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
PECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION
to and from
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT.
TICKETS at SPECIALLY LOW FARES
will be issued at Sydney and Suburban Stations to
all Main Line Stations, Menangle to Junee .Junc-
tion inclusive, and also to Wagga, The Rock,
Yerong Creek, Culcairn, Gerogery, and Albury,
by the undermentioned Special Train, available
for return by Ordinary Trains (Melbourne Ex-
press excepted) on any day up to and including
THURSDAY, 25th June, 1896.
THURSDAY, 11th JUNE, 1896.
RETURN TICKETS at Specially Low Fares
will also be issued TO SYDNEY from all Main
Line Stations, Albury to Yarra inclusive, by
Special Train leaving Albury at 6.30 a.m., and
from stations Goulburn to Menangle inclusive, by
Special Train leaving Goulburn at 3.45 p.m., on
FRIDAY, 12th June.
RETURN TICKETS at 2d. per mile first-olass
(minimum 10s.) and Id. per mile second-class
(minimum 55.) will be issued from stations on the
Main Southern Line to stations Goulburn to
Mittagong inclusive, by the above Special Train
from Albury.
These Tickets will only be available on the out-
ward journey by Special Trains named : but pas-
sengers can return by Ordinary Trains (Express
excepted) leaving Sydney up to and including
FRIDAY, 26th June, 1896.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. M'LACHLAN, Secretary.
Business Announcements
■ i„ .
STlss
£9
NEW BOSTEDO BICYCLE.
Morgan & Wright Tyres ; Guaranteed One Year.
CASH PRICE only £2O.
Fisher & Lingham, Sole Importers, Vic. Arcade, Sydney.
oHsM
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
CYCLE STTIFIPIjIIEH&S
To His Excellency Lord Hampden.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
—FOR THE—
World-renowned HUMBERS, PREMIERS, etc.
W. J. C. ELLIOTT, Manager.
BENNETT * WOOD,
New Address: 397 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for
“Rover,” “Rapid” and “Hudson” Cycles
Lists Free. Machines on Terms.
mV
HHSCV-: '• “•
> m V 1 ' r-
mHE E. C. JOHNSTON SELF- BA STEM
1 LUBRICATOR & STRAINER PATENT.
Your troubles are ended in the kitchen at last, for by
using this baster over game, poultry, and all roast joints,
the natural juices are kept intact, and a result attained
that will astonish the greatest epicure,. Inexpensive,
easily cleansed, durable, and REQUIRES NO WATCHING.
AT ALL IRONMONGERS.
The baster fits inside the baking dish—any size made to
fit. FOR ALL OVENS TO ORDER. Stock sizes—
-0 1 2 3 4 N.B. —Keep the holes in
*}/. 2/0; 3-; 30; 4- both tins clear. Address:
The MANAGER, BASTER FACTORY,
No. 9 Addison-road, Marrickvilkv


WONDERFUL
Blood-Purifying Effect
OF
Ayer's Sarsaparilla
Mr. Charles Stephenson, a well-known
Kailway Employe at Kalapoi, New
Zealand, writes:
0
“About ten years ago, while en-
gaged in shunting, my foot caught
between the rails, and my leg was
fractured below the knee. It healed
in time, but I have been troubled
ever since with swollen veins, and
have been obliged, at times, to wear
a bandage. About a year ago it be-
came much worse, and I feared I
should be obliged to give up my
work. A friend advised me to try
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I did so, and
after taking four bottles the swell-
ing disappeared, and I have not
been troubled with it since.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS for Biliousness
s
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete aud perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro* Works,
Beckham, London, England.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., Ltd.; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell &Co., Ltd.
BEAUTIFUL FLOWFBS
—AT—
SEARL’S,
SYDUBY’S FLORISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
A T this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
»**■ the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.—Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal.— E. LENTHALL
OLDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria”
Maoriland’s tribute to the Great Protector
is that in the town of Cromwell nearly the entire
population is Chinese.
W. Creek : “Theworld will smile, but by far
the most important name in a recent week’sMelb.
obituary is that of Peter Gleeson, first pioneer of
Jamieson, Vie., who died there in obscurity, May
2. Such Walt Whitman addresses, in his song of
‘ The Redwood Tree ’ as : ‘ You that, sometimes
known, oftener unknown, really shape and mould
the New World.’ ”
The Australian tramp again. The other
day telegraphic communication across S. Australia
was interrupted by a hard-up, who cut the wires
to obtain assistance from the repairing-party. The
repairing - party duly arrived, provisioned the
hungry outcast, and sent him North rejoicing. A
few weeks later the wires were cut again, between
Daly’s Waters and Powell’s Creek, by a second
tramp, who was found by the repairing-party to
be well-provisioned and comfortably camped, but
who, being footsore, wanted a lift northward. It
was determined to prosecute this time, but the
nearest police-station was a few hundred miles
north on the Katherine —the very goal to which
swaggie was wending. Consequently, the latter
scored again, and the authorities were left blas-
pheming.
Angus and Robertson, the well - known
booksellers of Castlereagh-street, Sydney, have at
much expense undertaken the enterprise of pro-
viding a thoroughly Australian copy-book for use
in the State schools of this badly-writing conti-
nent. Hitherto, the local youngster has had to
form his hand on questionable foreign maxims:
Angus and Robertson’s series provides for him
facts regarding the history and industries of Aus-
tralia, which is a distinct gain. Further, the
success of the series will mean the establishment
of a considerable local industry, all the work in
connection with it being done in Sydney. The
new copy-books have been approved byN.S.W.
Dept, of Public Instruction, also by the managers
of many local banks, insurance co’s, and business
firms ; and valuable prizes are offered annually to
scholars and pupil-teachers using them. Conse-
quently, the enterprise commends itself to every
Australian who wants to see this country stand on
its own merits, and utilise its resources, and em-
ploy local industry and local intellect to the
utmost.*
Port Melbourne is a wormy suburb, with
a flavor of dead fish and stagnant mussels, and it
is a popular place of call with the friendless
suicide and miscellaneous dead, who come up from
the sea and bask on the fore-shore. An attempt
was lately made to deprive the Port of its
morgue, and public-spirited citizens arose in
energetic protest. It was pointed out that the
local morgue was a crazy establishment raised on
props, and that the water running over the corpses
stored above fell upon the innocent children who
played hide-and-seek under the monumental ruin.
It was also declared that the suburb’s unclaimed
dead would be better served and more comfortably
housed in the city morgue; but Port Melbourne
objected with great wailing, and refused to be
comforted. The local idea was that the morgue
was good for business and lent a certain status to
the town, and that a place without a morgue was
a place of no consequence whatever. So Port
Melbourne retains its morgue, and on pleasant
Sunday afternoons the children of the suburb may
still frolic in the juices of the latest cadaver fresh
up from the beach.
ROWLAND'S
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves, Strengthens, Beautifies the Hair, pre-
vents baldness, eradicates scurf and produces a
luxuriant growth. Authorities all positively assert
that oil is absolutely necessary to nourish and pre-
serve the hair; therefore use Rowlands’ Macassar
Oil ; also in a golden color for fair-haired children
and ladies.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO.
A pure, fragrant, non-gritty tooth powder; it
whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
strengthens the gums and sweetens the breath.
Ask Druggists and Stores for Rowlands’ articles,
of 20 Hatton Garden, London, England, and
avoid cheap poisonous imitations.
CoQcerQiQg
PICTURE FRAMES.
Referring to the many advertisements
appearing now in the daily papers
concerning
Prices of PictGre Frances,
we beg to state that we are prepared
to execute orders for the above in a
proper workmanlike manner at
Prices EqCially Low
as those advertised by any
Respectable NoCise
in the Trade.
Being DIRECT IMPORTERS and
CASH BUYERS, besides holding
the Largest and Best-assorted Stock
of Mouldings in the Colonies, Cus-
tomers can rely upon getting
FULL VALUE
for their money.
H. H. GROTH & CO.,
529 George Street, SYDNEY.
1207
124
372
1203
403
126
125
234
078
56
57
6>.
%
B 2
A. N.W.
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
G5B George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Sc Cooled Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran*
tee of excellence,
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A USTItALIAN
2V EEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD EltCMi
•NEW ZEALAND— ,
Messrs. Sarjjood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth street and 27 Swan-
Btou-street, Melbourne.
YVESTRALIA—
Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
nr
H. HILLIER,
Manufacturer & Importer,
135 AND 137
Sussex Street, Sydney.
fg
-.QQfi mrvrtFS fro ie Manufactory in Birmingham to my stores in Sussex-street at the following prices
KOAdItIr DUNLOP, Pneumatfc Tires, tangent Spokes (also Ladies), £l3 10s. ; Cushion Tires £lO.
non’t fore-et the SULKY as shown with Cushions, price as usual, £7 155. ; BUCKBOARD'BUGGIES, £lO 10s.
lShfvehicles in Stockfor made to Order. It doesn’t matter what you want in this lme-you can get
it from me. , . .
A household word—HILLIER’S Saddles, known all over the colony for Low Prices.
395. 6d. It applies also to Harness : you can get any style at any price froin 30s. upwards.
Saddles, complete, from
Send for Catalogue.
Atclierley & Dawson
By Special Appointment
df
to their Excellencies,
'Viscount HAMPDEN.
Sir R. W. DUFF.
The Earl of JERSEY.
Lord CARRINGTON,
and
l Lord HOPETOUN.
Choice “ GLOBE ” TEAS.
Awarded FIRST I'RIZE and Special SILVER MEDAL
at the METROPOLITAN SHOW, 1895. These Teas
also gained the same distinction in Queensland.
These unrivalled TEAS are supplied to Consumers Direct at Lowest Rates. Samples Gratis.
Delivered TREE at any Town in the Colony.
ALL GRADES AND VARIETIES OF TEA KEPT IN STOCK.
257 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY —also at MELBOURNE &,^BRISrA'JE.
btST & CHEAPEST UUOKtD tUOU
KTRADEvMARK'
AM
0
16rz.TIBS.
Compare Price,
Weight, and Value
of other Foods-
for Infants. Invalids. & Everybody.
Contains Extracted Wheat Phosphates.
FRAME FOOD CO., DTD LOMBARD ROAD. BATTERBEA, LONDON. S.W.
Houses and Land for Sale.
|y| ILLI O N S OF |y| ONEY!
THOUSANDS of MEN will soon be AT WORK at
BELMORE!
The Chicago of Australia, City of Sydney, N.S. Wales.
BUY BEFORE THE GREAT GOLD, SILVER,
RAILWAY and FACTORY BOOM.
MAGNIFICENT BLOCKS OF LAND
—IN THE—
T€RMINUS €STAT€.
First Subdivision only JEIS each. Only £1 Deposit; only
ss. Monthly. Torrens Title. Deeds only 455.
5 PER CENT. FOR CASH.
Fortunes will be made in the purchase of these splendid
blocks. Magnificent chances for Clerks, Mechanics, Store-
keepers, and, in fact, an era of unbounded prosperity
awaits the fortunate investor.
Buy before the boom. Only 23 minutes from Redfern.
Who can fix their value when the great factories start ?
jfW" Write or wire for plans, post free from E. C. V.
BROUGHTON, Valuator appointed by Government,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Telephone 1725.
When writing please mention this paper.
BUY before the Boom at MANLY! Rival
Ferry Companies have Amalgamated ! Building
Lots only £8 each ; 10s. Cash, ss. Monthly. No interest.
Free Deeds. Plans post free from E. C. V. BROUGHTON,
250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. When writing please mention
this paper.
“ m
THE LAST OF SIX.”
£100,000,000
UNCLAIMED'
A Register, 330 pages’
containing names of 70,000 persons advertised for
to claim property and money since 1700. Price,
2s. 6d., post free. Every man and woman in the
world should buy this book, as instructions are
given how to recover property from Chancery. A
fortune may await you. Dougal and Co., 02
Strand, London, England ; estd. 1844. Property
and money recovered from Chancery on commis-
sion. Wills.—Persons wishing to have copies of
wills of relatives or friends can now do so. Search
fee, <£l Is. Certificates of births, marriages, or
deaths, <£l Is.
GENUINE TESTIMONIALS.
“ Orroroo, Adelaide, Aug. 25, 1894. Gentlemen,—l
hereby acknowledge receipt of cheque, iny share in
estate, with thanks. I also thank you for prompt manner
you have conducted the business. —Yours respectfully,
Amy Nutt.”
“ Port Darwin Camp, South Australia, July 7, 1894.—1
purchased your ‘ Register’ and found my uncle’s name as
having funds in Chancery. I thereupon instructed you to
investigate the matter, the result of which was I recovered
my share, and advise all to procure your ‘ Register ’ and
have their claims properly investigated by Dougal and
Co., London. —Yours faithfully, A. Warland.”
“Queen-street, Auckland, 16th June, 1894. —Dear Sirs,—
The ‘ Register’ compiled by you is of very great value In
my own case, my mother was entitled to money lying un-
claimed for 50 years in Chancery. Seeing your book 1
noticed my mother’s name, and was successful in obtain-
ing what should have been paid more than half a century
ago. It is to be regretted your book is not more generally
known.—Yours faithfully, E. T. Dufaur (Solicitor).”
“ Bordertown, Adelaide, October 9, 1894. —Gentlemen,—
I beg to acknowledge cheque for my portion of money,
bequeathed to my mother, with thanks.— Yours, &c.,
Luke Farrow.”
DOUGAL’S UNCLAIMED MONEY REGISTER,
price 2 6 (posted 6d. extra), can be obtained from Gordon
and Gotch, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Perth; George
Robertson and Co., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, ant
Queensland ; W. C. Rigby, Adelaide ; or mailed from
Dougal and Co., 62 Strand, London.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD f °k
Infants*
9
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
> AND
THE AGED.


%
m
s
tern
. -
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HERBAL
ALFALINE REMEDIES
(Registered!
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED *TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and Nerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES, BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OVER 10 YEARS,
AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
List of the Alfaline Remedies.
Vitality Restored
ALPALINE
VITALITY PILLS
Are the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Austra-
lian public for many yeors, and stood a test which
may well be envied by all other manufacturers of
similar remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bility, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— l/- 3/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Special Double course,
43 6 ; ordinary course, 28,6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
and 3'-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -Boxes, 23/6,
12 ■, 6/-, and 3/-.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43 6, 23/6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6 -
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder- Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Injection Powder— Cures the Whites.
Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— Boxes, 6/- and
3 -.
Altaline Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder- Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, 1 - and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes —Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 16
Alfaline Bath Tablets Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lates the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/-; posted, 1 6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c„ &c.
Blood Purified
ALFALINE
LOCK CURE FILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonic-
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It -s not the usual Mercury remedy,
hut a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world: It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALFALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint be im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rassmussen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices.—With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/-
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
43T ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
Important.
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus —PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
WARNING
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia.
t • i /» i.;~ —aa ard rror»f icod an tliio
nerr »me vi.guui. - —r ~:~r Matrons should
always obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can onlv be obtained from his own Offices and Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlet
sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free. . TT _
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or to his Branches.
Selected Testimonials
Nerves Cured.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir —I have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, T consider you are deserving of success,
wmoh I do most heartily wish you. —Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmusskn.—Dear Sir,—l think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Here Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. E. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill ; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wish Fulfilled.
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen,
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor lor six
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, comer Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year of 1871 I was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills ; since then I have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pifls, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
Witness : Edward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street..
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness: John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh - street
Sydney.
A. "Valu-atole Free Book.
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuabh
information, and << any useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality, as well af
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood. Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will be
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of testi-
monials, as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office:
547 George St., Sydney.
AND AT HIS INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
Melbourne : 150 Bourke Street
Adelaide: 151 Bundle Street
Brisbane: 160 Queen Street
N-Z. : 91 Lambton Quay , Wellington
West Australia: Corner Hay and William Streets , Perth.


TATTERS ALL’S
iii MSTER PRIZE LIST,
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
I
6th JUNJ&
10,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
100,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
BANK OF VAN DIEMEN’S LAND.
Grand Lottery.
SANCTIONED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT OF TASMANIA, 57 VIC., No. 2, 1893.
SECOND DISTRIBUTION OP PROPERTIES.
List will positively close 3rd June.
Total Value £50,000.
—IN
200,000 Tickets at Five Shillings (55.) Each.
Ihe SECOND DISTRIBUTION of PROPERTIES, authorised under the Lottery Act,
will include the following
MAGNIFICENT PRIZES !
Prize. Value.
1. Orient Hotel ... ... ... £13,500
2. Bank Premises, Launceston ... 8,000
3. Bank Premises, Devonporb ... 5,000
4. Orchard, Glenorohy ... ... 4,000
5. All Nations Hotel, Zeehan, let at
rental £220 ... ... ... 3,000
0. Royal Exchange Hotel, Zeehan, let
at rental ±'2oo ... ... ... 2,500
7. Store, Orchard, etc., Huonville ... 2,250
8. Meadowbanks Estate ... ... 2,000
9. Federal Hotel, Zeehan ;or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 1,500
10. Residence, 18 rooms (weatherboard,
Don ;or cash less 10 per cent. ... 1,000
11. Hall and Offices, Zeehan; or cash
less 10 per cent. ... ... ... 500
12. Orchard, Huon ... ... ... 450
13. Cottage, Launceston ... ... 400
14. Cottage, Hobart ... ... ... 300
15. 214 Acres Land, Castra ... ... 300
16. Cottage, Forth ... ... ... 250
17. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 220
18. 74 Acres Lands, Cumberland ... 210
19. Cottage and 30 Acres Land, Ship-
wright’s Point ... ... ... 200
20. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
21. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
22. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
23. Building Site, Bellerive ... ... 200
24. Cottage, Launceston ... ... 200
25 to 29. Five Allotments, Hobart—
.£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
30 to 34. Five Allotments, Hobart—
.£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
35 to 44. Ten Allotments, Penguin—
<£so each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
45 and 46. Two Cottages, Don —<£50
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
47 and 48. Two Cottages, Don—.£so
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
Prize. Value.
49. One Cottage, Don—.£so, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... .£5O
50. Two Stables, Don —£50, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 50
51. Allotment, Turton-street, Devonport
£5O, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 50
52. Allotment, Northam—£so, or cash
less 10 per cent. ... ... ... 50
53 and 54. Two Building Allotments,
Launceston—£so each, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 100
55 to 58. Four Cottages, Don —£25 each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 100
59 to 61. Three Cottages, Don—£2s each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 75
62 to 66. Five Allotments, Latrobe—£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 125
67 to 70. Four Allotments, Leith—£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
71 to 74. Four Allotments, Penguin—
£2s each, or cash less 10 per cent. 100
75 to 124. Fifty Lots, Strahan—
£lo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
125 to 145. Twenty-one Building Lots,
Don—£s each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ... ... ... ... 105
146 to 168. Twenty-three Building Lots,
Don—£s each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ... ... ... ... H 5
169 to 188. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
189 to 208. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
209 to 224. Sixteen 1-Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 80
£50,080
In the event of the total number of tickets not being SOLD, the Drawing will take place
pro rata, and a proportionate number of the alternative Cash Prizes will be included in
such drawing.
List will positively close 3rd June.
TO TATTERSALL—
Please allot me__ shares
WarwickFarmC
20th JUNE.
10,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
4th JULY.
50,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE 0.
3rd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me__ Shares in
the above.
Name.
£
Address
CAULFIELD C.
17tb. October.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. Shares in
the above.
Name.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Business Announcement.
The people of Queensland
—IN—
TOWN and COUNTRY DISTRICTS
Are invited to send their Orders to, or Visit the
Establishment of
FINN EY, ISLES,
AND CO.,
BRISBANE,
WHERE the FINEST STOCK in the COLONY
—OF—
General Drapery, Tailoring, Clothing, Shirts,
Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bedsteads,
Glass, China and Crockeryware
Can be seen in all Qualities, from Low-Priced
Lines to Very Best.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS by giving clear
description of their requirements, stating prices
they wish to pay, and enclosing remittance to
cover amount, will always get from us best value
procurable for their money, and will be as well
served as if in town to select for themselves.
Our Goods are always New, Up-to-l)ate in
Style, Underneath in Price,
And we serve all customers alike. An examination of our
GOODS and PRICES will be found an economical lesson.
Finney, Isles, & Co., Brisbane,
And at MARYBOROUGH <Q>,
And 27 Milton-street, Fore-street, London, E.C
A Beautiful Fabr^
THE CELEBRATED
“ LOUIS ”
VELVETEEN.
m
LUSTROUS
BLUE BLACK.
PERMANENT
JET BLACK.
Rich & Eare Colors
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT
Genuine “LOUIS
VELVETEEN” is
specially recommended
for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns,
Dinner Dresses, Chil-
dren’s Dresses & Cloaks,
Millinery, Trimming,
and Art Decorative pur-
poses.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS” Velve-
teen bears the Name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no other
way), and is stamped with a Guarantee of Wear.
HAIKDItESSEItS ANI* WIftMAKHtS.
To tlie Trade. I
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN !
HAIR, comprising' 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24 j
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large j
varietv of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to .
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches. I
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge (
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water, Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers Boles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE L^ADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. fid.; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Seal pets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
080 A 682 Ueorge Street, Sydney.
Still the Leading Pipe
G B
fL
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD,
against which none can compete.
Wholesale Agents :
'ULITTS GOLDSCHMIDT &
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CO.
57
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W". O- EIjIDBI33G-E & GO-.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STICK SYDNKY
(Opp. Cent I il')-
Country Orders by post nun, . colonies promptly
attended to.
Leges : “Purves gets £5OO douceur, and
.£lOO a day, to go to Tasmania, over the Mt.
Lyell case. What for? It recalls Chief Justice
Russell, in England, getting iloOO, just before his
elevation to the Bench, for going down to Leeds
Assizes on one day only. Not, of course, to plate
sin with gold, hut to succour the poor and him
that hath no helper. Why should money have
such weight in the legal balance ? In short, why
should a —mistaken—impression abound, that it is
nine-tenths of Justice?”
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition'; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
Dear Bulletin, —If Mr. Plummer will
read the “ Parkesiana ” paragraph again relating
to the supposed presence of Oxford, who shot at
the Queen, in court during O’Earrell’s trial, he
will see, I think, that I have not made “ several
errors.’' I didn’t commit myself to any direct
assertion as to the truth or falsity of the statement
that Oxford was in court. I put the point tenta-
tively, and the enquiry from Parkes was simply :
Had he heard that such was the case; the reply
being that he had known there wmre rumors to that
effect. For myself, I was prepared, by the know-
ledge of some of the very facts referred to by Mr.
Plummer, to doubt the accuracy of the report. I
forward for your own information the name of
my authority, a gentleman who emphatically
declared that he was convinced the solicitor
in question teas Oxford. Writing hurriedly up-
country, and without the opportunity of revising
proofs, I made one slip ; I should have used the
term “ exile d ” for transported. What was in my
mind was the difficulty felt in official circles as to
what should be done with Oxford. Within two or
three years after his incarceration in 1840 the
then Under-Secretary for the Colonies wrote to
Governor Eardley - Wilmot (Tasmania), asking
“ whether Oxford’s life would be safe ” if he were
sent to the colony. When- the question of
releasing him was again discussed in 1867, Aus-
tralia was once more suggested as the place
of his exile, and to this circumstance and a very
pronounced facial resemblance (judging from por-
traits) between the solicitor alluded to and Oxford
was no doubt attributable the origination of the
rumor. I was perfectly aware, of course, that
transportation had ceased long before 1867, but
that Oxford was released on condition of exile was
certain. As for Captain M‘Lerie’s share in the
arrest, I stated what was popularly and credibly
believed—and the belief, let me say, would be
found particularly well-based, if it were worth
while to go- into details. —The Whiter of
Paekesiana.
Mr. Henry Lloyd, trading as the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., is opening a large bookstall on the
jetty of the North Shore Ferry Co., and the public
may rely on finding at His new branch, as at all
his other stalls, the latest books, popular maga-
zines, &c. ; also, the very latest editions of all the
newspapers. This new departure will be appre-
ciated by the North Shore ferry travellers, as the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. has on hand an excellent
stock of literature.*
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
111 Try It
CAPILURINE!
Posted (under cover)
to any partof Austra
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10,0
Sole Agents:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st, Sydney
ow
/Acknowledge*)
rsrfKE
BEST
AR
"GREENFIELDA
, BARRf(cLOUGH|
LATEST N
PINCE-NEZ
Greenfield and
Barraclough,
Spectacle Makers,
371 GEORGE STREET 371
(A.J.S. Bank-buildii gs, near King Street, SYDNEY).
Sir SAMUEL GRIFFITH, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice,
Queensland, writes:—“l have much pleasure in saying
that, you are entirely at liberty to make use of my name
in certifying to your being competent Ophthalmic
Opticians, in whom'the public may place confidence.”
Sif/ht Examined Free of Chart/e.
Artificial Teeth, £5.
COMPLETE (Upper and Lower) Geld Medal Sets
of perfectly - fitting Teeth, J 35. Mastication
guaranteed. These are the best and lowest in ptice
made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
gums. Old misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without intetfeiing with own
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate
after if wanted. Paiidess extractions daily by nitrous
oxide or cocaine. Fee, ss. No danger or ill-effects
follow. Send for Treatise on Teeth.
Consultations Free. Fees precisely the same as adver-
tised. Mention this paper.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist,
New Address-
-28 WYNYARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert’s), SYDNEY.
THE SMELTING COMPANY Of AUSTEAL’A
LIMITED.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS:
Head Office—s 6 Margaret-st., Sydney.
THE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in operation
by AUGUST 1896, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
An ASSAY OFFICE and LABORATORY have been
opened at the Head Office in Sydney, and most com-
modious Assay Offices and Laboratories are now in
course of erection at the works, which will be equipped
in the most Modern Style, at both of which establish-
ments samples of ores of all classes will be tested for
the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
Treatment of base refractory ores of low grade a
speciality.
Organs
By STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
for Church, School and Parlor.
Pianos
By E. KRAUSS, GERHARD ADAM,
etc., etc.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS
By REYNOLDS & CO.
E. BESSON & CO.
Violins,
BOWS, STRINGS, and all kinds of
fittings.
Accordeons,
CONCERTINAS, MOUTH ORGANS,
BANJOS, GUITARS, MANDOLINES,
and all kinds of Musical Instruments and
Fittings.
Wholesale Warehouse :
A. P. SYKES
(Late Philip P. Samuel & Co.),
227 Little Oollins-st., Melbourne.
Price Lists on application.
Publications
Under the patronage of His Excellency the Governor
Noted for Celebrities:
TALMA & CO.,
—Artist Photographers—
-119 Swanston Street (opp. Town Hall),
MELBOURNE.
Paris Panels, 20/- per doz.; Cabinets, 15/-
gd
rpHK New ‘Albert’
Accordeons, two full sets of
reeds, DOUBLE action, Price2l/~.
Same, superior tone and finish,
25/--. The New AUTOHARP—anj
person can play this instrument,
or vanip his own accompaniments
to thousands of songs, without
any knowledge of music whatever
- Price, with 3 Pedals, 2 books of
tunes, &c., 15/-; Superior tone and
finish, with 6 Major and Minor
pedals, 25/-. Post Free. The ‘PH(E-
NIX’ Organette(forpieces,hymns
or dances, worked by the handle).
Best, strong and Sweetest Music
in the world-a child can play it. Price, with 6 popular
tunes, 25/—; large size, 55/-. Only at, J. ALBERT &
SON, 118 King Street, SYDNEY. Violin, mandoline,
guitar, banjo, cornet, angle, aid concertina catalogue for-
warded Free, NOTICE. Messrs. J. Albert & Son are
the only musicsellers in Australia charging for all Two
Shilling Pieces, songs and waltzes at 1 9, post FREE.
KENRY FARMER S Operatic Selections for VIOtdN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Ees Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
THE GOVERNMENT
fg
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
V DICTIONARY J
STANDARD
Send for free prospectus
containing specimen
pages, illustrations and
full.particulars
C.&C.MerriamCo.
Publishers,
40 Hunter St.,
Sydney.
Geo. Rotoerfcson Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Reta 1 Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work baskets. Smok. is' Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photof/rnphs of I'oi/iislt A Colonial ( rfrhr/li<s
“ A LONDON SUCCESS.
N( w Coon Song.
OH, HONEY, WILL YOU LUB DIS COON.
Pi ice, 6d.
Also, same price, the popular song, “LOVES VESPER
HOUR,” by Lindsay L nn-x, uni “LOVES VESPER
WALTZ,” by Thee. Bonheur. £H 0 t ether SONGS,
DANCES, etc., at 3d. EACH, of all D ale is, or from
Publishers, IV. IMXTO V A CO., •«»» Swmist oll-st.,
Melbourne, and .lit Oxford SI reef, Loudon.
C t-ilomns Free.
Business Announcements.
Remington TyP e Ulster.
There has been of late a marked increase in the
SALE OF THE REMINGTON
to the Titled Classes and the leaders in every
department of thought and action Authors,
Journalists, Clergymen, Physicians, Barristers,
Solicitors, and men of business.
Stott <£• Hoare, Sole Importers.
pEMINGTON.^-
The members of the Royal Family are most
enthusiastic in their appreciation of the Type
Writer, and have been graciously pleased to confer
Warrants of Appointment On the Manufacturers
of the Remington.
Stott <£• 110 are, Sole Importers.
The DAILY USE of the R E M I N GTO N in the
Royal Households is only another indication of
its growing popularity, which is further evinced
by the fact that our machines are used in all
departments of Her Majesty’s service in Great
Britain, to the practical exclusion of all other
makes.
Stott (€’ Hoare, Sole Importers.
Tb€ Reipipgtoi) Typs Writer
—IS—
USED and Endorsed as “the best ” by upwards
of Thirty British Railway Companies, after
Exhaustive Tests by their Leading Engineers,
the London and North-Western Railway Co.
alone using some 200 machines.
USED and Endorsed as “ the best ” by the P. & O.
Steam Navigation Co., the Union Steamship
Co., and all other leading steamship lines.
USED and Endorsed as “ the best ” by the Royal
Insurance Co., using upwards of 50 machines,
and by nearly all other leading British offices.
STOTT & HO ABE,
SOLE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALIA,
426 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
49 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Acorp Whisky.
THE FAMOUS
J
ustus van Maurih’s
—CELEBRATED —
P6tcb Cigars.
TEA DIRECT from the PLANTATIONS.
Horace P. Ellis, Vickery’s Chambers, Sydney.
VOLCANIC
Soda "W ater
Is ABSOLUTELY PURE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
The Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Co.,
Bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Hotels.
—THE—
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Has been THOROUGHLY RENOVATED and
RE-FURNISHED,
And I am NOW READY to RECEIVE my
Old and New Friends.
Thos. Ascii©
(late of Royal Hotel),
PROPRIETOR.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar
Proprietor.
HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Ejcliiliili in),
Private Boarding Establishment.
(Witliin Tliree Mii.ut s of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONS Visitors. SPECIAL
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
Poverty Pointers !
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CIARIERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside'Resorts, &c.
Tankard’s Family Hotel,
(next Law Courts),
E 5
MELBOURNE.
Under New Management. First-class BOARD anti
RESIDENCE, Cl per RoonvVl Is. daily.
W L ■ NEALE, KTanager.
Phillipses tempe ?ance hotel
409 Lon&dale-street. (near. Queen-street),
>lll.koi km:.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from 18s. per week upwards. - > -


HOT WEATHER,-HOW TO INVIGOR-
ATE the nervous system by natural means.
Mental prostration. “Having suffered much
headache and mental prostration, I was induced
to try Eno’s ‘ Fruit Halt,’ the effects of which
have been most satisfactory, resulting in invigorat-
ing my entire nervous system, and removing the
frequent headache to which I was subject. You
are at liberty to make any use you think proper of
this testimonial, as I consider Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’
an indispensable adjunct to the household.—
Truth, Sigdon Road, Dalston, E.” Caution.—
Examine each bottle and see the capsule is marked
“ Eno’s Fruit Salt.” Without it you have been
imposed on by worthless imitations. Sold by all
chemists and stores.
1 he Duke of Orleans, lineal representative
of Louis Quatorze, is “ willing- to submit his riqht
to the French crown to a plebiscite. ” ‘ ‘ The right
divine of kings to govern wrong” seems about
played out.
An inquest was held on the body of Mar-
garet Curtis, aged 73, at Melbourne the other day.
For a year the old woman had made persistent
efforts to get into the local Benevolent Asylum
and failed. After her last attempt she walked to
the Yarra, and found a refuge there. “Suicide
whilst of unsound mind.” There is a fine field in
Melbourne for the operations of a few missionaries
from the ‘ ‘ heathen tribes ” that eat their old and
worn-out relatives.
To Cure -Sore Throats
I",! Ch’Tt' ® f ° r PUr ' Tying drinkinS
London, Enprland', 1 aretlio'so^e'niakers! olnsis 0 Insist e <)nbiiying^2^J^Y^|l^/Un^
Use “ Condy’s Fluid.
HOTEL „ . „
. . AUSTRALIA.
RATES:
From 12$. 6d. per j)ay upwards
(iQClasiV* of all Ideals).
N. Edwii) Moore,
Manager.
FROZEN MEAT EXPORT.
Messrs. BERGL & BRA.BBIN have the honor to inform the pastoralists of Queensland that
they are now able to offer the very best facilities for them to send their surplus stock home. They
can have their stock treated on owners’ account, either at Bowen or Gladstone, and disposed of to
very best possible advantage in England by the SAME FIRM. If treated at any of the other works
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin will be most happy to take charge of their shipments on arrival in London’
and are sure that their charges, and especially the PERSONAL attention given to each consignment’
will give satisfaction. For full particulars apply
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin,
LONDON, LIVERPOOL, etc., ENGLAND. SYDNEY. BOWEN, GLADSTONE.
WONDERFUL CURE for
Influenza, Coughs, Golds, Asthma,
Bronchitis, Sore Throats,
Ana all Lung Complaints.
Ronnington’s
Never Fails. IRISH MOSS
Esr Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
df
S'*
o v
v*
&
&
MealiNg
*
*
A v<&
Oil
If you cannot procure at your Chemist, write us direct.
NORTHROP & LYMAN CO., Ltd., IS Bridge Bt., Sydney.
.
Mm
A S
WSi
iisw
' ■-
■
'■
MOTTS. Milk Brrouiroot Biscuits.
FED ON
The Children’s Food .
BE SURE YOU GET
gd
THE
" Plum ’
4£XpTu
THE
‘ Plum’
CJ ENILEMEISI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
" Razor a trial, inis brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the publi-
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can nghly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know tlie exact, kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number ot years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years .
Price | o! n^! e R ;lzor > > n strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
I Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* 1 in beautiful case, 30s. '
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
-
J
\\
lliese celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the HigllSSt Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 SOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HONHEUR,
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Borsdorlf & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
20 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE -
AND AT
e 1 a i c3L g & HoToart
Trade Mark.
•j.
S 3
'S.
RD
s
m
fl*3
*
*
THE GOLD KING AMALGAMATOR.
A Pump accompanies this size ; works with machine.
v'• H ? V ai c?~ j° Wer L Capacity, £-ton per Hour ; Shipping weight, 2501 b.
h reight to Sydney, =£l. 1 rice free on board steamer at San Francisco, <£4B.
.No. 1, tor 5-head stamps ; price f.o.b steamer San Francisco, <£B9.
HUNDREDS OF THESE MACHINES
Working in California alone saves everything capable of amalgamation, either
from Batteries, Old Tailings, Black or Beach Sands, etc.
No Battery should
be without one.
&ST Send for Illustrated
Pamphlets with details
of these machines; also of
. flcrralPs WoijdcrfCil Hydraulic QCiartz Mill.
The Fastest Crusher in the World.
A. G. MITCHELL & CO., H 8 The Strand, SYDNEY
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES. - - |
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
A Pure Tobacco Dip. Best and Cheapest in the Market
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP.
DIP
AbßOlutelr Destroys Tlck S ana Lice. Cures and yreyeuute, So a,b al]lCl
Nicotine Mange Cure (in bottles), |-pts„ 1/6 r pts., 2/6 each. Nicotine Blight Cure (in bottles), |- P ts, 1/6 ;
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO, “Rialto,” Collins-street, MELBOURNE; 03 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.’
-ET" ; o (rot,
pts., 2/6 each.


SP
This is one of the best amongst several Eminent Makers whose fine instruments are being shown by
t j Limited,
IN THEIR SHOWROOMS, 338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
All the best makers may be seen there. Your best security is to buy from an OLD ESTABLISHED PIANO WAEE-
HOUSE, whose guarantee IS OF VALUE, and whose interest it is to GIVE SATISFACTION Taking the qual.tj.mto account,
our Pianos and other Musical Instruments are cheaper than any others in the market. We sell at the lowest prices for CASH or on the
very easiest terms at a slight advance. As a proof that we sell only the best, and give the greatest satisfaction we may state that we
sell more Pianos than all the rest of the trade put together. Inspection and comparison invited. CAIALOGUES POSI IBEE.
Easy terms if required.
Brass Baod lQStr(in)€QtS
by Boosey and Co. and Besson and Co., of London, the only two reliable makers
Wind and String Instruments in Great Variety and Low Price.
Violins Bows, Cases and Strings. AcCOrdcol)S, Concertinas, Mouth Organs, Banjos,
Guitars, Mandolines, and all kinds of Musical Instruments and Fittings.
Wholesale ai)d Retail.
M?S
OKi'SiO
m
-m
, ■
s-
HHhg
IiEADS WO RLD.
Strike Me!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a typical Yankee drummer, wavy-haired,
dapper, cute ; with the assurance of saint or devil.
The boots he stood in tapered to the sharpest of
points, and those points somehow gave you the
idea of wedges—show them the smallest opening
and straightway the whole man who stood in
them followed.
It was at a cycling carnival. The Governor was
there, seated on a chair ; close by lay the Yank,
with his bicycle prominent. The Governor was
called away for a few minutes by the ground secre-
tary ; the Yank instantly took the Governor’s
chair, and sat with crossed legs. The Governor
returned alone—the Governor, whose task, like
Satan’s, is to be nice to everybody. Seeing the
Yankee agent in his chair, he lifted the bicycle
and examined it—just as a gentle hint—while the
owner eyed him out of one eye-corner !
“ Hullo, Bill ? ” exclaimed the Yank.
The Governor, pretending not to hear the salute,
asked, “ Who is the agent for this bicycle ? ”
“ The agent,” said the youth, “ is a gentleman,
since he laughs at every joke just as if it were a
joke and he had never heard it before.”
The Governor smiled —the tired smile of office.
“ The machine ought to have pace,” he said, in a
confidential, insinuating way.
The Yank knocked the ash of his cigar off on
the Governor’s walking-stick, and, taking a draw,
blew a cloud in the air expressive of disdain.
“ It ought to have pace,” repeated the Governor
rather nervously.
“Say, stranger?” asked the Yank, “air you
pinching my back or trying to give my machine a
black eye? Well, just you look right here ! that
machine is so fast that you’ve only to put one of
your crazy splinters on each of those pedals
and you streak like a greased flash for the horizon.
Start level with a bullet from the best rifle, bullet
gives up after the first hundred yards. Why ?
’Cause that machine’s ’Murkan, stranger, not Eng-
lish. And light ! that machine is so light that
you can pick it up and carry it as easily as the
ideas in your head. And strong! Why the
heaviest man in the States —weighs 25 stone —’s
been ridin’ one of those machines down stairs last
10 years—broke the stairs; never broke that
machine. Can’t pinch my back, stranger ; can’t
give my machine a black eye ! Every man that
ever rides one of those machines holds up hands
and feet in praise of it. You mount it now; when
I say hit her up, you hit her up, and if you don’t
make this country stare, well, you can take me
home to be hung.”
The Governor was here called away, and a pal-
pitating official spluttered to the Yank : “ Good
God ! do you know that that’s the Governor ! ”
It stopped the Yank in the middle of a sneeze.
“That rag a Governor? I took him for a com-
mon tramp ! an ordinary English globe-trotter !
Strike me for a half-awake Australian ! ”
Item from Kempsey (N.S.W.) paper :—
The champion loafer and dirty man has been unearthed
at Kempsey. has been married 21 years, has
10 children, and would sooner die than yakker. He
lay in bed in his clothes for weeks at a time, too bone-idle
to even scratch himself. One of his shirts, which a con-
stable took off the debased hound and produced in court
as exhibit A, was so caked with filth that it looked like a
coat of mail; and when the P.M. angrily ordered the trap
to take the horror away, he took it out in the yard and
stood it up on end, without any support. It was as stiff
as a board.
Paterfamilias Takes Good Advice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ A man bas no right to take his troubles home,” says
Justice Hartley Williams. Nonsense! A man’s home is
his castle, and he may do what he likes there.
“ Exactly ! just so ! I know it, old fellow;
Been there myself and feel as you do.
‘ The world seems painted a dull, bilious yellow ; ’
As for me, I have cured it, and so can you, too.
“If in silence you fret your worries will double ;
You can’t slay your fellows —the law that for-
bids ;
But when you get home you can work off your
trouble
By taking it out of your wife and the kids.”
I’ll take the advice that my friend kindly proffers ;
He’s a shrewd man to follow—in business no
dunce;
I’ll try just as soon as an opening offers.
Hush ! here they are coming—l’ll test it at once.
Their tender touch smoothes out my wrinkles,
unknowing,
As one climbs on my knee and one strokes my
hair;
All my worries are chased by their spirits o’er-
flowing,
Till they sleepily lisp out their “ God-bless-you”
prayer.
Then she sits beside me, and tells me quite gravely
How five-year-old baby has got beyond bounds ;
I look in her face, and I notice how bravely
She’s sparring for time—till the dinner-gong
sounds.
Next morn I could weep at my yesterday’s blind-
ness,
As I look on this planet through less bilious lids;
For I’ve got in my heart a fresh stock of kindness,
And I’ve taken it out of my wife and the kids !
Melb.
R. K. DEE.
Prof. Agassiz and party, who came all the
way from America specially to explore the Barrier
reef, practically failed to do anything, owing to
the weather, and return to the States much dis-
appointed.
Editor Bulletin, —The author of ‘The
Benefit of Clergy ” in a recent issue evi-
dently has little knowledge of shanty-keepers’
daughters. The shanty girls are often less
accomplished than the city barmaid, but they
possess quite as much of the other sort of know-
ledge as the town-bred nymph. And what did
Jane’s babe do to the author, anyhow, that he
should thrust the old rabbiter and the other he-
person on it as sponsors, when there were so many
women about? Again, who ever heard a sober
priest bawl out for whisky in front of a
crowd ? Also, the author shows his ignorance of
the Irish character when he makes Mrs. Dargan
drag in the two Magdalens before introducing the
corpse ? Apparently Mr. Allen has never been to
an Irish wake, or he would know better. With
Paddy, the corpse is always first. Eor example :
Female Mourner: “ Who is that foine-looking man
over beyant?” Neighbor: “Arrah, hould yer
whist, he is only a cousin to the corpse.” Now,
that is about how a live man stands with the Irish
when there is a corpse about. — Biddy. Saltpeter
Creek, Vic.
Some Business Items.
Melb. : “ I regard it as a sign of the decadence
of our city that the newspapers should be so heavily
charged with leading articles on books, instead of on affairs
—indicating that we become more of a Bristol or Edin-
burgh, than a Chicago or Liverpool. The regular leader
here is the kind of thing which ought to be an occasional
special article, to tickle the bookworm. If business is
alive, it is reflected in the newspaper.”
* * * *
The other day a man presented a <£l note of the
Colonial Bank of Australasia in one of the biggest ware-
houses in Sydney, and was allowed 60 seconds to get out
under pain of being arrested for trying to pass the paper
of an imaginary bank. Being flurried at this extraordinary
reception, he got out with his note, and thereby missed a
chance of making, probably, £lOO damages for false im-
prisonment. Australia has so many banks that hardly
one business man in 1000 could tell the names of them all
straight off, and very few people really know whether
many of the notes they meet are those of banks that are
living or dead or that were never born. Most of them
simply take any note that comes along and risk it.
¥ * * *
When some Riverina squatters want grubbing
or ring-barking done they call for tenders. The whites
who send in the lowest tender are asked to call on the
manager, who shows them a starvation tender from Bung
Hi and Co., and explains that of course the lowest tender
must be accepted, but out of patriotism the Aryans can
have first chance at the Mongol’s price. If the white men
say “ Gotohel!” Chinamen are procured from the stations
or elsewhere and put on till the white men cave in.
* * * »
Melbourne merchants who, a short time ago,
were tumbling over one another in their efforts to open
up branch houses in Westralia have cooled down consider-
ably during the last two months ; in fact, in the majority
of cases, the contemplated ventures are finally “ off.”
Their belief in Westralia as the coming province has
greatly chilled.
* * * »
The Bulletin sincerely hopes to see expert
shorthand writers installed in N.S.W. Supreme Court to
take evidence, summings-up and judgments. So far,
practically the only evidence admissible on appeal as to
what a judge said in summing-up or in delivering an oral
judgment is—His Honor’s own word ! Half-a-dozen bar-
risters, including perhaps a couple of clever shorthanders,
may have down in their notes something absolutely at
variance with his Honor’s present version of what he
said, and the newspaper reports may agree with counsel’s
notes, but no matter—his Honor is as absolute as the
Almighty. If he says he said so-and-so there is an end
of the matter— he did say it, and that’s all. It is really
time that these highly-paid autocrats were pinned down
to black-and-white.
• * * *
Melbourne house properties are looking up.
The growing revival of business down South has touched
all classes of trade, and in such suburbs as Albert Park,
Malvern, Hawksburn, Armadale, Windsor, Prahran, and
South Yarra house-agents now find it difficult to meet
the demand. During the past twelve months the number
of unlet tenements in Melbourne suburbs has decreased
fully 10 per cent.
¥ * * ♦
“ Chambers ” is a term which covereth effec-
tually a multitude of costs. The word “interlocutory”
has a Mesopotamian awe about it which checks irreverent
enquiry. Blit while the public chafes under the smart of
costs in general, it is well to point out one matter
responsible for much expense which could be easily pre-
vented by a determined Judge. It is quite the usual
thing any day in chambers for counsel to apply for ad-
journments on account of their being engaged in other
courts. Opposing counsel seldom resist these applications,
in order to ensure similar favors when needed, and because
of a sort of esprit de corps which would reckon it churlish
so to do. Clients are rarely consulted in such matters ;
but, of course, it all means expense. Occasionally appli-
cations are delayed months on this account. Even the
fearsomeness of “ interlocutory ” cannot keep back a mild
protest against such trifling with clients’ interests.
Ed. Bulletin, — The decision of Chief Justice
Madden re trade protection societies will not either mean
blue ruin (to those societies which know their business) inor
w in it provoke a pooling of funds to oppose the appeal. It
would be simply monstrous to permit any Tom, or
Harry, under the cover of a “ society” or “ company,” to
blast any trader's reputation with Inth« gar-
l°l’ ar iSf®? t L besrinnintr to end
that his employers should go scatheless.-Z.
q , ~ t x/fVlh solicitors are turnimr-
, e ,, ■ 'trihnte to
UJP business for sharebroking. As g
Hie inherent virtuousness of scr p-dea g.
....... , •
The army of seedy individuals in Melbourne
who seek to make piles by syndicating processes for treat-
ing refractory gold-ores, has been largely increased lately,
There are also some score would-be floaters of patent bolt-
nuts, and a dozen new spark-arrester inventors; whilst
the number of mechanics who throng Collins-street daily
with prospectuses of portable water-condensers, suitable
f° r Westralia,” is simply legion.
Apropos “ suitable to Westralia.’’ A large per-
centage of the younger men leaving for the West still con-
sider it necessary to carry a revolver and a few lb. of
cartridges, a gold-belt, and a miner s pick and shovel.
Waste of money ! Any of these articles can he had, by
the hundred, unused, in Perth for a fraction of their
wholesale value. , * *
London blllf, 1. Jr. O Connor s organ, warns a
correspondent against investing in the “ Australian Frozen
Rabbit, Poultry, and Produce Syndicate, Ltd. ” : “ In the
first place, there is scarcely any chance of organising a
trade in frozen poultry between England and Australia,
The colony wants all that she rears for her own consump-
tion, especially since the rise of a Chinese population on
her shores.” !! ! It’s a wise father that knows his own
child ; but the “ dear old mother land s ignorance is
the most surprising thing in sociology.
* .. * ~ t .
A Melb city property sold for six years
ago, has luckily been re-sold for £17,000.
. .... ~ , , r
A certain genial old gentleman, who has tor
years past carried on business as a jury-squarer, has
deemed it wise to lie low just now.
* * * •
During 1895 Yic. breweries used 93,338 cwt.
su ar 614 434 bushels of malt, 655,2821 b. hops, making
uu, million gallons of common tanglefoot, or 78,000 gals.
more than in 1894. Also 771,968 gals, were brewed from
malt and hops only—an increase of over 100,000 gals, on’94.
* * * *
Alleged, in print, that under English banking
law money left with a banker over six years and not
drawn on 0 r dealt with becomes the bank’s very own.
* * * *
B - H - Proprietary Co. pays .£16,000 income-tax.
The strike in the London building trade
turned on a question of increasing the rate of
wages by 2s. per week, or even less—say £5O a
year for division among every ten men employed
by the contractors.
From Aibury (N.S.W.) Border Post :
Obituary. —Michael Down, a well-known hawker, while
lamb marking at Urana on 'Bhursday, fell down dead.
The accused’s wife resides in Stanley-street, Aibury.
Force of habit. No fear of that careful man
getting caught by the libel-law. *
The newsboy, the match-vendor, know
the force of the pathetic appeal—“ Last one I’ve
got, sir ! ” and generally sell the whole dozen on
the same plea. But why should a man buy the
last one rather than the first one or the middle
one ? A complete answer to this question is worth
at least a column of psychology.


Pear
Soap.
X- '
Makes the Hands white and
(air, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion,”
’ * / *C'
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England: IA
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
m
i
*
sy/>y
m
V/M
m
'/A
m
m
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others,”
OM
The Kaiwarra Mystery .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A prisoner in Darlinghurst recently stated that
he committed, in Maoriland in ’B9, a murder for
which another man is now undergoing life sentence.
That man is Louis Chemis, an Italian, convicted
of the murder of Thomas Hawkings, farmer, of
Kaiwarra, 3£ miles from Wellington (M.L.) Post
Office. The crime, known as the “Kaiwarra
mystery,” ranks among the more extraordinary in
the annals of homicide. This is its true story.
* » * *
Thomas Hawkings, aged 50, farmed 500 acres at
Kaiwarra for 18 ; years preceding his murder. His
farm, on a hill top, chiefly rough hill-land,
is approachable by only one high-road from
Wellington. That is bounded on the right
by the waters of Port Nicholson, a railway
running between sea and road. On the left the
road is shut off by steep hills practically inacces-
sible save by infrequent fenced gullies. Up one
of these is the private road to Hawkings’ farm,
the bacon-factory of Dimock Bros, being within
the fence. Twenty-four chains townward to
Dimock’s, a fenced gully leads to Chemis’s house.
From Dimock’s to Hawking’s house chains)
the rugged, ever ascending and curving road,
which soon shuts Dimock’s from sight and sound,
is encompassed on three sides by hills. At rear
are the wide waters of the port, framed by V-
shaped hills, affording glimpses of the snow-clad
lofty Kaikouras in the far distance the whole
scene dreary and wild in the extreme. Local
society in 1889 was largely butcher and slaughter-
men, by whom Hawkings, inclined to territorial
airs, was unloved. He waged war with strange
tramps and on visitors from Wellington, who tres-
passed on his land, shooting, and he was both
aggressive and timid.
* * * *
On Friday morning, 31st May, 1889, he left
home (his custom on Fridays) for Wellington,
driving a cart and carrying <£6 or £7, which he
banked in town, also a pocket-book, said by his
wife to have contained “ native papers and odds-
and-ends, ” and which was never found after his
death. He transacted business, and left for
home with a few shillings only. About 5.30
p.m. (darkness gathering) he called at Dimock’s
for bread, stayed a minute, and then
went up the steep private road to—death.
Twenty-two chains from Dimock’s, on the left and
on a bank three feet higher than the road, is a
gorse bush. Here the murderer or murderers
crouched. Hawkins, on the near side of his horse,
must have passed this bush a yard, and either been
challenged or otherwise alarmed. He turned
three-quarters left-about face. A bullet struck
him under right top button of his sac coat, bruised
him only, and passed out of left lower pocket of
coat, carrying with it a penknife, subsequently
found opposite the gorse bush. Then, doubtless,
Hawkings ran down hill, and his pursuer, at close
range, fired (with No. 4 shot) and hit Hawkings
in the back below the right centre of the coat-
collar, and then, with a knife, hacked Hawkings
(who, exclusive of several incised wounds in the
arms, had 24 wounds on the body) until he fell.
He only ran 44 feet. As Hawkings lay prone, the
murderer apparently lifted his left arm and plunged
a knife into his heart. The attack was delivered
with maniacal ferocity. Meanwhile the horse
dragged the cart 31 chains up the ascent (passing
scathless some terribly steep pinches), got through
a gate generally kept closed, and brought up—the
near wheel in the palings—a few chains from the
farm.
* * * *
Though Hawkings seldom arrived home after 6
p.m., no anxiety was felt until 7.50, when Mrs.
Hawkings told Charles Bowles, her cousin, a farm
laborer, to go down-hill and look for Hawkings.
Bowles went with a lantern, found the horse and
cart, gave them to a farm-boy (Harry Norman)
and proceeded down-hill. Two chains below the
gorse-bush, 29 chains from the farm, he found
Hawkings—dead. He sent a passing youth to
alarm the Dimocks, who, with others, came to the
body. A telephonic message brought Dr. Cahill
from Wellington, who, after superficial examina-
tion, instructed the police to take the body to
Wellington morgue. About 11 p.m. Cahill' in-
formed the sergeant-major of police that there
had been foul play; no further action was taken
until 6 a.m. next day, when two constables went
to Kaiwarra. The Inspector and the Chief De-
tective were not on the scene of the murder until
20 hours after it occurred. On Monday, J une 3rd,
Inspector Thomson (since dead) called the widow
at the inquest to testify that deceased and Chemis
had a law-suit, and that the former told her
Chemis had threatened him. That, probably,
settled the doom of the foreigner Chemis. On
Tuesday, June 4th, a hysterical Wellington even-
ing paper (since dead) shrieked for the arrest of
Chemis. Thus encouraged, the police arrested
him next day.
* * * *
On the previous Saturday the police, informed
by Mrs. Hawkings of Chemis’s alleged threats,
formed the inevitable police theory, and, as in-
evitably, proceeded to fit Chemis into it. In-
spector Thomson picked up bits of newspapers near
the scene of the murder. Other police did like-
wise. Two detectives searched the suspect’s bed-
room while the Inspector remained without. They
found a double-barrelled gun, shot-pouch, revolver
loaded in three chambers, a small knife, a stiletto,
four bullets and pieces of newspaper, but no traces
of blood on Chemis, his garments or premises.
Chemis, when arrested, was perfectly composed,
and remained so, without fear or bravado, until
sentenced. He was taken before three J’sP. (two
of whom died before the trial) and remanded.
The coroner’s jury returned a verdict of murder
against “ some person unknown, ” and the magis-
trates committed Chemis for trial.
* * * *
His trial, before the Chief Justice, lasted from
Bth to 15th July; he was defended by Charles
Bunny, who suffered from typhoid throughout the
trial, delivered his speech for the defence on 13th
July, and died on 17th idem, and never knew the
verdict. The Crown Prosecutor’s case may be
thus summarised: There was enmity between
Chemis and deceased and a lawsuit over a lease.
The former had threatened the latter. From
Chemis’s house, over the hills, to the place of
murder was only 44 chains. Chemis must have
seen Hawkings pass in the morning, and have
known, when he (Chemis) knocked off work on the
high-road, Hawkings had not returned. Two shots
had been heard from direction of Hawkings’s
house at 5.30 p.m. There was time for Chemis to
have committed the murder, and it was suspicious
he had not called his children (aged 6 and 9) to
account for his whereabouts at 5.30 on the evening
of the murder. Chemis possessed a stiletto which
fitted (?) the wounds, also a double-barrelled gun.
But the shot which killed Hawkings had
been wadded with newspaper. Dr. Cahill
had found newspaper in the awful shot-
wound. The inspector and other police found
newspaper at the scene of the murder, also news-
paper in Chemis’s bed-room. These various scraps
had been pieced by a “ gentleman unconnected
with the police”— i.c. , a clerk in the police depart-
ment ! They belonged to the same issue of Even-
ing Post, and to same shipping-column thereof.
A piece found at place of murder fitted marvel-
lously into the piece said to have been extracted
by Dr. Cahill from the shot-wound, and these
pieces precisely fitted a piece of newspaper found in
prisoner’s house. On this paper evidence, and on
it alone, Chemis was sentenced to death. If that
fails —the rest goes by the board.
V ¥ * •
As a matter of fact, Chemis had nothing to fear
from the lawsuit with Hawkings. There was
much discrepancy of evidence touching the time
Chemis knocked off work on May 31st, and no
clear proof he could have got to the scene of
murder, across terribly difficult hills, by 5.30 p.m.
He would have been mad to call his young chil-
dren, who might not have seen their father that
evening, but he reasonably, as did his wife,
accounted for his time. In the opinion of some
experts, the stiletto, which bore no signs of recent
usage, could not have inflicted the wounds.
There was contradictory evidence as to whether
one or both barrels of the gun had been recently
fired. As regards the paper evidence, it failed,
not because it was not good enough, but because
it was far too good. When the inspector started
picking up newspaper, he had, he said, no theory,
and knew nothing about any gunshot wound on
deceased. He had put the paper found on the
ground in an envelope, and in his pocket. Some
of the paper found at Chemis’s house he put in an
envelope, and in another pocket, and marked the
lot in the evening, at home, and placed them back
in his coat, “in the pockets I had taken them
from,” and left the coat hanging up. On Sunday
morning he took out the papers from one envelope
for examination, but soon returned them. He
took the papers on the sth to the police-clerk,
putting “ each in its turn into a clean envelope.”
The fatal objections to the inspector’s evidence are
—(1) he may have honestly mixed the papers, and
(2) others had access to his pockets. Dr. Cahill,
probing the shot-wound in Hawkings, extracted
“amass of flesh,” and put it in a piece of news-
paper, “ the name and date of which I do not know.”
He carried this flesh home on June Ist, produced it
at the inquest (J une 3), took it home again ‘ ‘ -with-
out changing the wrapping, ” and dissected it 6th
June. When, on the latter date, he opened the
parcel, the whole of the newspaper wrapping did
not come away. The “ mass,” when taken from
the body, consisted of particles of clothing, flesh,
blood-clots, paper, and shot, the whole saturated
with blood. The mass gravitated to and wetted
the newspaper-wrapping—the whole of the wrap-
ping, the doctor stated, came away, except a
piece about the size of a shilling or half-crown, of
unknown name and date, which remained on the
mass. Here, it is evident, a mistake was possible.
* * * *
But there is a far simpler and more fatal objec-
tion to the paper evidence. Chemis, it was
proved, was in the habit of taking his lunch,
wrapped in newspaper, and eating it in the
locality of the scene of the murder —part of a
paper unconnected with the crime was found by
the police near the place of murder, and another
part, fitting the first, in Chemis’s house. Chemis
may, therefore, have taken his lunch in a piece of
the identical newspaper which sentenced him,
leaving a torn portion thereof at home, may have
thrown away the piece enclosing his lunch, and
the murderer may have picked it up and used it
as a gun-wad.
* * * *
The following additional facts tell in favor of
Chemis: He bore an excellent character for so-
briety and industry. He had saved life ;he was
a good husband and father—his wife, an Irish-
woman, fought for him long after his sentence
with surpassing courage. At about 5 o’clock on
the evening of the murder a man (never identified)
carrying a gun, was seen near Hawkings’s land’
After the trial, when Mrs. Chemis brought ari
unsuccessful charge of perjury against the police
a man made an affidavit that he heard, on the
night of the murder and near the scene thereof a
rustling as of someone moving in the scrub ; and
another swore at the trial of Chemis that he saw a
man, a stranger, running up the road near the
place of the murder very early on the following
morning (June Ist). Three youths made affidavit
that on May 24th a strange man, under the influ-
ence of liquor, foaming with rage, in possession of
a gun and acquainted with the locality, had a
violent quarrel with Hawkings. This man was
further described as sft. 9in. high, stout build a
foreigner and wearing a heavy, sandy moustache.
Long after the trial the present writer noticed that
a portion of the sleeve of the coat Hawkings was
killed in was stuck together with congealed blood.
It was opened and examined with a microscope!
In the part opened, stuck to the sleeve by blood!
were found three hairs—apparently from a sandy
moustache !
* * * *
Returning now to the prisoner in Darlinghurst,
who would have been 15 years of age when Hawk-
ings was killed. It was common talk in Welling-
ton after the murder that a boy Hawkings had
once employed had sworn on leaving he would pay
Hawkings out, when he grew big enough, for
some real or imaginary injury Hawkings had
inflicted upon him. Thousands in Maoriland
believe Chemis innocent. It is to be hoped these
lines may be the means of inducing the friends of
Chemis to have the confession of the Darlinghurst
confinee thoroughly sifted. Two may have assisted
at the murder. It is too much to ask the Maori-
land police to essay to prove they bungled over
the Kaiwarra Mystery.
J. EVISON.
Melb. Herald divorce-court headings
“ Marred Marriages,” “ Hymen’s Hatchet,” “The
Nuptial Knot,” “Bursting the Bonds,” “Divers
Divorces.” And it is said that one scribe wanted
to run up the heading, “ Naughty Nisis.”
Another storey is being added to Menzies'
Hotel, Melbourne, the one establishment of its
kind which “ went steady ” all through the boom
and has been growing in prosperity ever sinco.
For many years Menzies’ has remained the
favorite roosting-place of the bloated squatter and
the mummer who cultivates “ tone a sort of
Station and Stage Guild.
About Dress-Suits.— Gentlemen residing
in the country will find that Hordern’s, in Pitt
street, Sydney, system of self-measurement is a
complete success, and a perfect-fitting garment i*
guaranteed. They are supplying Dress-Suits b
order for Four Guineas (elsewhere quoted at fiv*
and six guineas). Write for samples of cloth
which are forwarded free. All drapery parcel *
are sent free per parcels post—a great saving t<
country residents, especially wh»n. they can buy a>
our noted cheapest prices.*


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
S
p°R Bili° us and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
i G f Hi^l ’ le ( ss ’ * and Spelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
tags of Heat, Loss of Appetite, Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Disturbed
Sleep, 1 rightful Dreams, and all TServous and Tremblingr Sensations THTi 1 TJ’TimT hnQF
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. "°tZT£ « & cSo„
GUINEA V A e BOX ”° ne B ° X PUIs > and the >' will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
BEECH AM >S I TEES, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. Thev
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. Fora y
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Mnsciilar System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing hack the keen edge of appetite and
arousing with the Rosebud °f Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, m ah classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
KSS.” pm the Larsa ‘ ° f ■*» FM
PREPARED ONEY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each.
V
'f/w
9
&&
-Sa*
• '*/#» »»/•*• *llllll riiilllmint tiiiimi'miim>*lOi
l|i
O
THEY HAD MET.
She : “Are you acquainted with Mr. Housenlot ? ”
He : “Oh, yes ! We go down in the same ’bus every day, and we’re thrown
a great deal together.”
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
fgdfg
STYLE No. 14.
09. GASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYMENT.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
Hand MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; by poet, 6d,
df
Needles,
Fittings,
AMD
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to snit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of,Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
“New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
260 Bourke Street,'"Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKiiT, SYDNEY,
DIRECT IMPORTER OE
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS & CIGABS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE,
EIGHTS, BULLY, A 1 CURLS, LEGER
WILLIAMS.
CAN’T BE BEAT, THREE
TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
CIGARS,
yiz.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA PAROLA, EL MUNDO
(Heavy Weights), HIGH LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons Furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-payment
Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade sup-
plied cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAIMARKET, SYDNEY.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
- HAVE YOU A COLD ? .
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
r . Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
bleedin^T„,n U f n rlT? niCha ?. don ?^ 0 , nd - erBfor rae in topping my cough and
POUndgfand all to no |ood! before I t r ried ! it/ ?nderfUl medicine - 1 have B P ent
ADA FLETCHER, 146 Lawson Street, Darlington.
pirbridge’s
) o.t, Y ° ur Ton,c 1 have UBed * or years. I think it my duty to let
in«lmH °r ho m valuable a medicine it is for the cure of colds.' I have found
uable heiieflt from it and could not carry on my profession without it.”
M ‘ Professor of Swimming, 416 Mile End Road, London.
Try it for Consumption
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWJBRiDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in Bottles, Is. l|d., 2s. 9d., 4s 6d
and 11s., bv all Chemists and Patent "
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Mouses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STRFRT. SYDNEY
gdf
WEAK,MAN
% CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS
iiqinninq. 2ND wesr. Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,
specifics, etc., when I will send you FREK the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing Maivigor in
young and old men. The Homoeopathic Treatment cures in four weeks All letters sent
sealed Address, „„ ,
* ,r ‘ IRVING CO., 6o Elisabeth St., Sydney.
Tales of tlie Austral Tropics


DO YOU USE
on
IN ANY
QUANTITY ?
IF SO
you CU6HT
to purchase one of Wells’
Waste-Oil Filters,
you will then only have
.TO BUY .
Oil occasionally, as the Dirty
Oil can he used over again.
Therefore, go to 'Wimble’s, 87 Clarence-st.
. a FILTER
that will save its own cost in six
months.
<I ACHARM!NG SCENT/’
H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
WHITE ROSE.
“The Swrotest of Sweet Odours.”
Delightfully and delicately fragrant
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
ATKINSOW 3 ONLY GENUINE
Perfume, Toilet Powder, Soap, Tooth Powder,
Sachets, & all other specialities with this
“ charming ” odour, of all Dealers through-
out the World & of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St.,London.
6 6 rjTALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
“ Kemixioor ” Cement (GUARANTEED GOVERNMENT TEST).
HARDWOOD (best Northern).
GALVANISED IRON, “W.S. Grown” Brand. “BOSTWICK’S” Pat. Collapsible Gates
PIG, BAR and SHEET IRON, and TIN PLATES.
‘‘ St. Pancras Co.'s ” Pavement Lghts. " Snow” Patent Pumps. “ Boyle’s” Ventilators
“ Garrick’s” Steam Cranes. Best Indian Cigars, “ Mariposa” Brand. “Bush’s” Pat.
Glazing and Zinc Work. ALWAYS IN STOCK AND to ARRIVE.
Solk Agents: SCOTT, SIBBALD & CO., 20 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
CYCLING! CYCLING! CYCLING!
Outside Tyre Covers
Internal Tubes
Non-slipping Bands
Valves
Valve Tubing
Solution
[Pedal Rubbers
- Cork & Rubber Handles
[Repairing Rubber Sheet
CUSHION and SOLID TYRES.
CYCLE CAPES.
LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK. CALL or WRITE EOR PRICE-LIST.
The India. Rubber, Gutta Percha
& Telegraph Works Co. Ltd.
F3yc3.M.€i-y Brancli. : 283 GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter-street).
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING-
COCOA
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands ol sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in everv disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. iW"
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, unit greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who looidd pro-
bably undertake its sale. .
Oil 00 301 9 0003
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fisk, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade-for
AFTERNOON TEA.
N o te.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
A.geuts Everywhere. H. PA.I ESON, MANAGER.
Tb« NEW “LIP-FLAN<SE” FRUE VANNER BELT.
“ Will OOtlast Two of tbe Ordiijary.”
Genuine “ Frue ” Belts (obtainable only from
the patentees or their authorised agents) have, owing
to the great care and attention paid to their manu-
facture, invariably given good satisfaction, but, after
being in use a long time, the old flange had a ten-
dency to become weak and lose its vertical position.
This prevented the machine carrying the proper depth
of load, and allowed the sand to slop over and get
into the bearings. The new “ Lip-Flange,” which
msr\
■
mm
«»l-
-i ’ S‘'^WE>
SECTIONAL VIEW-
FLANGE.
has just been patented throughout the colonies, does
away with this difficulty almost entirely. It is
made of a very superior and elastic rubber prepared
in a special manner, and its peculiar shape prevents
it cracking in going over the rollers, or losing its
vertical position. All “ Frue Vanners ” sold in the
future will be fitted with this new “Lip-Flange”
Belt without additional charge, and the belts them-
selves may be procured from the patentees at a very
slight advance on the old price.
PATENTEES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA:
Parke & Lacy Conjpaoy, Limited, Sydney.
Agency : 21 and 23 FREMONT STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE Is. ... ... P er Post > 3d -
gd
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class ol WorK. Agents Everywhere.
Seal© of Advertising
—IN—
“ THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... ... ... ... 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
Quarterly Contracts ... ... ... ••• 1® P er oent '- discount.
Half Yearly „ ... ... ... ••• 20 „
One Year „ ... ... ... ••• 25 ~ ~ ~
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ... 16 s - P er mch per insertion, nett.
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
NOW IS YOUR CHANCE!
{FRAGRANT AROMA.
EXQUISITE FLAVOR.
RELIABLE QUALITY.
GOOD CONDITION.
M.allo Cigars—4 for Is.
A credit to the Smoker, equal to any 6d. Havana Cigar, and a pleasure to his friends.
3F». R. JLiarkin
—FOB—
Wines, Spirits & Beers.
India, China and Ceylon Teas ( new shipments arriving monthly).
The Safest, Most Reliable and Cheapest House in Sydney.
3XTo Spurious or A.clultera,tedL Goods Offered*
PLEASE SEND FOR PRICE LISTS.
SELECT REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES and GENTLEMEN ADJOINING
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL.
P. P. Larkin,
Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant,
778, 780, 782 & 784 George-street,
HAYMARKET SYDNEY.
