

MoE WAN'S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid's London Draught Stout.
CADBURY'S COCOA
A Stimulating - , Sustaining* Gup. Made Instantly.
K. G. WATKINS «S£ CO.»
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Minins and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Ir,
FRY’
ALTER COCO
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
•A
t.
ZXi
So
o
o
o
X
+
<RAckA«
o
o
o
*
O
O
K. A. HERVEY, Agent, 28 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
ALL STOREKEEPERS
iN JV.S.W. 8f QUEENSLAND.
m
T
ROBERTS’
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
4s and, 2s per bottle.
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
Whisky, 3/9
The Favorite “ Four Crown”
Whisky, 3/9
lioberts’ Special Whisky for
Influenza.
Very Superior old Port Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND,
MODERATE CHARGES.
m
Before visiting the Cl 1 / write to the Manager for
<jrd Of Tariff Correspondence promptly attended to.
PITT AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
First-Class F&i&ily and Commercial Hotel.
Centrally Situated. JS£" Write for Terms.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
7fcsU/^M
ARTISTIC FURNISHING.
LATEST LONDON STYLES.
W. Walter, Sons, & Bartholomew, L™-
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, & 119 BUNHILL ROW, LONDON.
Ask your SHOEMAKER
to USE
The Pioneer Oak
Sole Leather
(Warranted).
DURABLE, ODORLESS,
ECONOMICAL.
Used largely by Bootmakers.
Preferred by the Public.
Spot Cash Prices,
100., lid., is.
Large Stocks of Grindery at
Lowest Prices.
Country Orders receive prompt
attention.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd..
TANNEUS,
J. C
162
Clarence Street (Only), SYDNEY.
DUBEC Dubec. dubec.
No purer and higher class Egyptian Cigarettes & Turkish
Tobacco on the globe than DUBEC. Growers, Manu-
facturers and Exporters: COUSIS <fc CO., Cavalla
Yenidge, Macedonia Turkey, Cairo and Malta (estab. 1872).
The DUBEC Cigarettes are obtainable from all
the leading Clubs, Tobacconists and Hotels throughout
the world. Prices-In Tins (extra large size), 100, 7/6 ;
50, 4/-; Packets of 10, 1 Medium size in tins, 100, 6,0;
50, 3,6. Small size in packets of 10, 6d.
The DUBEC Cigarettes are recommended by
DOCTORS of ALL NATIONS, and are smoked by
LADIES in the highest circles at Home after meals, and
are an excellent aid to Digestion, and also an excellent
CURE for Asthma. Suppliers to their Excellencies
the Governors of Australia, also the officers of the
Army and Navy.. Fresh shipments are received by every
mail steamer. Sole Import Depot for Australasia :
The Turco-Egyptian Tobacco & Cigarette Company,
108 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W. [Estab. 1889.
T
HE LAST OF
PRICE— Is.; Per POST, Is.
SIX
3d.
the smelting company or Australia
LIMITED.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
Managing Director: JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS:
Head Office—s 6 Margaret-st., Sydney.
mHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
1 Hlawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in operation
by AUGUST 1896, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, m large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
An ASSAY OFFICE and LABORATORY have been
opened at the Head Office in Sydney, and most com-
modious Assay Offices and Laboratories are now in
course of erection at the works, which will be equipped
in the most Modern Style, at both of which establish-
ments samples of ores of all classes will be tested for
the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same.
Treatment of base refractory ores of low grade a
speciality.
Cheque Bank Ltd.,
LONDON.
ESTABLISHED 1873.
Travellers 7 Drafts.
Circular Notes.
Money Orders.
CASHED by upwards of 20,000 Banks all over the World,
and by over 2200 Banks in Great Britain.
AGENCIES THROUGHOUT
Europe, A- : a, Africa. U.S. of America, Central and South
America, Australasia, Pacific Islands, West Indies, Spanish
and Portuguese possessions, and all parts of the civilised
world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
Sydney Agbny:
66 PITT STREET JAMES MALCOLM,
(near Bridg'e Street). GENERAL AGENT
The Bulletin
Yol. 17.—N0. 865.1
[Saturday, September 12, 1896.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AUSTRALIAN NOVELS and ROMANCES
By J. D. HENNESSEY.
WYNNUM ” (just published); cloth boards, Bvo.,
"25 pp., 36; colonial edition, 26. “ A story abound-
ing- in sensation and surprises.”—S.M. Herald.
“ THE DIS-HONOUitABLE” : an Australian story
of modern days. 317 pp., third edition, fancy boards,
Bv_o., 2,6. “ A novel of intense interest . . sketched
with a graphic force which Charles Reade himself
cou Id not have surpassed. ’’—London Daily Telegraph,
April 24, ’96.
All Booksellers, or post free from Hennessey, Harper
and Co., 6 Moore-street, SYDNEY.
ASK FOR COLOKIAL-MADE WIRE AETTIAGr
-A-ixd. see tliat you get it.
*TPvP£
proof
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND
T=3» C-«I
mm bros. * co.
LIMITED.
SI
&?»3s
vA
9
9
s
Mi
if:
n
PROOF y/^,
<~>n
eY
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
o£B.ooa-
Bligij Cbanjbcrs, Bligb-St., Sydoey.
■W orka
CbiSWiqk, Parranjatta RiVer.
THE RED PAGE .
Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A.s full as the days are of light in midsummer his
life was of Love.
Oh, the year on the mountain, the year by the
river, the year on the plain !
As full as the nights are of light when the rounded
white moon sails above,
Was his life of the Love that went from him to
never come to him again !
The mountain at sunrise rose out of the darkness
to welcome the light,
With a glitter of silvery eyes in its faoets and
fissures of stone,
And op ning of buds on the bushes and spreading
of petals of white—
But his welcome of Love was prostration of
heart on the steps of a throne!
The year by the river, slow-flowing, slow-flowing;
the year on the plain ;
Oh, the day-skies and night-skies were eostaoies
rolling round spirit-fed sight 1
But then the two lives fell asunder; and whirl-
winds, splashed with chill rain,
Cried above the brute chaos : “ Night, endlessly!
moonleBsly, starlessly Night 1”
Sydney.
PI.
In the Clouds of Fantasy.
In reality, men and women are nothing
but balloons : they all have a globe of spiri
and a car of flesh. Sometimes—most times
indeed—the globe never gets inflated, anc
the car remains on earth— fulfilling ever s<
many useful purposes and ever so few tha
are beautiful. And sometimes a man has
just spirit enough to make him a captive
balloon—he would like to soar higher if he
could ; but his fleshy car is too heavy—he is
tethered always to the ground. And rarely yoi
find an individual—like Blake, or Shelley, or
Keats—whose head is pure hydrogen, anc
who ca rries so little mat erial ballast that he has
hardly touched earth before he is away again
for ever, a speck in the ether almost undis-
cemible by the grosser souls he leaves behind
him. Only sometimes he keeps on singing,
singing, singing as lie mounts, and to those
who would fain follow, but who are left be-
hind like the little lame boy of Hamelin, the
mere song of what he sees is very precious.
• • * *
Richard Le Gallienne is maybe but a cap-
tive balloon, yet his rope of fancy is long
enough to let him reach the clouds, and
sometimes for a moment, one thinks, he
must have escaped from earth wholly. His
“Prose Fancies ” (there are two series of
them now) are better than his poems;
he is as puss- dainty in them, and
freer; and when his mood is at its rarest he
sways you without labor. And for criticism
there needs only quotation.
Science says that the moon is a dead world, a
cosmic ship littered with the skeletons of its crew,
and from which every rat of vitality has lon* since
escaped. It is the ghost that rises from its tomb
every night, to haunt its faithless lover, the
world. It is a country of ancient silver-mines,
unworked fur centuries. You may seethe gaping
mouths of the dark old shafts through your tele-
scope. You may even see the rusting pit-tackle,
the ruinous engine-houses, and the idle pick and
shovel. Or you may say that it is counterfeit
silver, coined to take in the young fools who love
to gaze upon it. It is, so to speak, a bad half-
crown.
As you will! but lam of Endymion’s belief—
and no one was ever more intimate with the
moon. For me the moon is a country of great
seaports, whither all the ships of our dreams come
home. From all quarters of the world, every day
of the week, there are ships sailing to the moon.
They are the ships that sail just when and where
you please. You take your passage on that con-
dition. And it is ridiculous to think for what a
trifle the oaptain will take you on so long a jour-
ney. If you want to come baok, just to take an
excursion and no more, just to take a lighted look
at those coasts of rose and pearl, he will ask no
more than a glass or two of bright wine—indeed
when the captain is very kind, a flower will take
you there and back in no time; if you want to
stay whole days there, but still come back dreamy
and strange, you may take a little dark root and
smoke it in a silver pipe, or you may drink a little
pfnal of poppy-juioe. and thus you shall find the
Land of Heart s Desire ; but if you are wise and
would stay in that land for ever, the terms are
even easier— a little powder into a phial of wate
a little piece of lead no bigger than a pea, and
farthing s-worth of explosive fire, and thus als
you are in the Land of Heart’s Desire for ever.
I dreamed last night that I stood on thebluste
ing windy wharf, and the dark ship was there
it was impatient, like all of us, to leave th
world. Its funnels belched black smoke, its engine
throbbed against the quay like arms that wer
eager to strike and be done, and a bell was beatin
impatient summons to be gone. The dark captai
stood ready on the bridge, and he looked into eac
of our faces as we passed on board. ‘ls it for th
long voyage ? ’ he said. ‘ Yes ! the lon- voyage
1 said—and his stern eyes seemed to soften as
answered.
At last we were all aboard, and in the twinkhn
of an eye were out of sight of land. Yet, one
afloat, it seemed as though we should never reac
our port in the moon—so it seemed to me as I la l
awake in my little cabin, listening to the patien
thud and throb of the great screws, beating in th
ships side like a human heart. . . .
There were three friends I had especially se
out to see ; two young lovers who had emigratec
to those colonies in the moon just after their mar
riage, and there was another. What a surpris
it would be to all three, for I had written no lette
to say I was coming. Indeed it was just a sudden
impulse, the pistol-flash of a long desire.
. I tried to imagine what the town would be like
in which they were now living. I asked the
captain, and he answered with a sad smile that i
would be just exactly as I cared to dream it.
Oh, well then,’ I thought, ‘ I know what i
Will be like. There shall be a great restless, toss
ing estuary, with Atlantic winds for ever ruffling
the sails of busy ships, ships coming home with
laughter, ships leaving home with sad sea-gul
°u le l h ,,rew eh. And the shaggy, tossing water
shall be bounded on either bank with high grand
walls, and on one bank shall be a fretted spire
soaring with a jangle of bells, from amid a tangle
of masts, and underneath the bells and the masts
shall go streets rising up from the strand, streets
full of faces, and sweet with the smell of tar and
the sea. O captain ! will it be morning or night
when we come to my city ? In the morning my
city is like a sea-blown rose, in the night it is
bright as the sailor’s star.
‘lf it be early morning; what shall I do? I
shall run to the house in which my friends lie in
happy sleep, never to be parted again, and kiss
my hand to their shrouded window, and then I
shall run on and on till the city is behind and the
sweetness of country lanes is about me, and I
shall gather flowers as I run, from sheer wanton-
ness ; and then at last, flushed and breathless,
I shall stand beneath her window, I shall stand
and listen, and I shall hear her breathing right
through the heavy curtains, and the hushed garden
and sleeping house will bid me keep silence, but I
shall cry a great cry up to the morning star, and
say, “No, I will not keep silence. Mine is the
voice she listens for in her sleep. She will wake
again for no voice but mine. Dear one, awake;
the.morning of all mornings has ooine
As I write, the moon looks down at me like a
Madonna from the great canvas of the sky. She
seems beautiful with the beauty of all the eyes
that have looked up at her, sad with all the tears
of all those eyes ; like a silver bowl brimming with
the tears of dead lovers she seems. Yes, there are
seaports in the moon; there are ships to take us
there.
• * * *
Comment on this anti-climaxes as abomin-
ably as the parson’s announcement of next
Sunday s collection before the organ-echoes
have done ringing through the aisles ; but it
should be said that one personal reference is
to Le Gallienne’s young wife (he himself is
only 31) whom he lost not long ago after a
year of idyllic marriage. (“They learn in
suffering what they teach in song”—and
coin their griefs to drachmas at the pub-
lisher’s.) And to close with a curious proof
of the human mind’s antipodes : compare the
beautiful ending above with another ending
also previously quoted on this page, but not
in juxtaposition—the reflection which con-
cludes Frank Swettenham’s description of a
Malayan moonrise :
1 here is nothing cold about this Eastern moon.
Seen, half-risen, against the dark foliage of the
mountain, it glitters like molten silver, dazzling
the eyes, and as it soars serenely upward seems
the very perfection of beauty, light, and purity.
Strange that the delight and glory of mankind
since ever the earth was peopled, the emblem of
unattainable longing, should be only a gigantic
cinder.
Notes.
William Main’s “ Bush Solitudes and
Other Verses ” (Geo. Robertson) are homely old-
nian’s-rhymes, lacking intellectual value or in-
terest, but occasionally getting in a quaint heart-
appealing touch. And these rough lines stand
out sufficiently for quotation :
For a man that keeps a bush puh. can’t afford to have a
heai t ;
lie’s got to he a human parasile,
Manipulating poison, keeping men on till they part
Tueir last stiver—turn them out whatever night.
And if there’s any trouble, why, the constable’s at hand
It need not trouble him, for that’s the way
To carry on the business, in a free, enlightened land—
Kind hearts and decent grog don’t seem to pay.
Why, by-the-by, do so many old men turn t
rhyming? Is it a symptom of senile degeneration
or an outlet for no-longer-head-controlled emo
tions ? or a kill-time when the poor back-numbe
sits lonely in the chimney-corner unheeded by
Voutii hurrying past in a turmoil of alien thought
and aspirations ? And you may note, too, tha ;
old Scotchmen are particularly venomous : the
Irish mostly rhyme when they’re young: the Eng
lish don’t rhyme—-because they eat too much, and
keep their blood in their stomachs?
*** • *
An article on “ Kipling in India ” in M'Cluhe’s
for July is worth looking at. An Indian office
wrote to a friend in Australia a while ago :
“You ask what we think of Kipling out here
Personally I can never dissociate him from his
odious personality—a little, ugly, spectacled, sen
suous cad ; absolutely lacking in manly qualities.
Still, there is no doubt that he is a perfect genius
in his way ; his marvellous powers of observation
and his knack of picking up the smallest details
deserve no other name. He is afraid of a horse,
and loathes the sight of one, yet he will write i
better account of a steeplechase than many a
racing man. He has seen a battery of artillery
once or twice, and perhaps talked occasionally to
gunners, and he can write pages of jargon which
no one outside the Royal Artillery can under-
stand. His writings are wonderfully true to life,
though, of course, a little exaggerated here and
there, but wonderfully little on the whole.’
A between.lines reading gets something of the
same result from E. Kay Robinson’s article.
Among Kipling’s former attributes are mentioned
his “stoop, heavy eyebrows, spectacles, sallow An-
glo-Indian complexion, jerky speech, abrupt move-
ments ... no sportsman . . . indifferent horse-
man ” — n °f> a probably-popular compound. But
compensations are noted : and it looks as if K.’s
(and others’) knowledge of his intellectual superi-
ority accounted for the unpopularity alleged
against him by our Australian’s correspondent.
Again, Kipling’s original sketches—or many of
them—are represented as being done after a hard
day’s office-grind ; and a man who stews his brain
for 10 or 12 hours a day is almost bound
to be moody and disliked. He has no vitality
to spare for social trifles. And Kipling
worked with all his heart and soul and strength
whence, according to a favorite theory of this
page, his success. Some wise women have an idea
that an easy baby is a poor baby ; and when you
look at the physiological chances there’s some-
thing in it. For, generally speaking, big heads
mean big brains, and big brains mean big men
wherefore, big men mean big pangs in parturition.
And isn’t there some analogy between childbirth
and bookbirth? So that—it is curious how all
tho thoughts of the world, like all its material
substances, spring from a handful of elements
perhaps (who knows?) from one element—you
come back to the maxims of much for much, little
for little, for everything payment. It is all poeti-
cally put in one of Olive .Schreiner’s “Dreams”
—which are not too well-known to debar quota-
tion :
THE ARTIST’S SECRET.
There was an artist, once, and he painted a picture.
Other artists had colors richer and rarer, and painted
more notable picture- He painted his with one color
there was a wonderiul red glow on it; and the people
went up and down, saying, •« We like the picture, we like
tile glow. ’
The other artists came and said, “ Where does he vet
Ins color from ? They asked him ; and he smiled and
said, ‘ I cannot tell you ;’’ and worked on with his head
bent low.
And one went to the far East and bought costlv pig.
ments, and made a rare color and painted, but after a
time the picture faded. Another read in the old books
and made a color rich and rare, but when he had nut it
on r.lie picture it was dead. r
Hut the artist painted on. Always the work got redder
and redder, and the artist grew whiter and whiter. At
last one day they found him dead before his picture and
they look him up to bury him. The other men looked
about m all the pots and crucibles, but they found noth-
ing they had not.
And when they undressed him to put his grave-olothes
on him, they found above his left breast the mark of a
wound—it was an oht, old wound, that, must have been
there all his life, for the edges were old and hardened :
but Death, who seals all things, had drawn the edges
together, and closed it up.
And they buried him. And still the people went about
sayinjj, “ Where did he find his color from? ”
And it came to pass that after a while the artist was
forgotten—but the work lived.
Picturesquely put, and calling up a host of kindred
ideas : the noxious pill-advt.’s text “For the blood
is the life ” ; vampires ; the o’d life-elixir hunter,
craving that essential ingredient, the blood of a
new-born babe (see him in Dumas) ; the blood-
sacrifice for the life of a savage chief ; that which
purchases the eternal life of religious sectaries;
and a hundred others. On what dim troglodytish
thinker did the germ-idea flash? lie would bo
worth knowing.
Reprints.
[For absolute melody—the sweet succession of syllables
—“A Fountain of Tears” has no superior in English.
“Annabel Lee” equals it—no more; and maybe O’S.
owes something to Poe's influence. O’Shaughnessy, in the
strife of bards, is fairly enough claimed as a Celt, and he
had the ear and the fancy which are chief concomitants
of del tic verse. He was born 1844, die 1881. His scope
was limiied, and his performance hardly reached hi*
early promise.]
A Fountain of Tears.
If you go over desert and mountain,
Far into the country of sorrow,
To-day and to-night and to-morrow,
And maybe for months and for years ;
You shall come, with a heart that is bursting
For trouble and toiling and thirsting,
You shall certainly come to the fountain
At length,— to the Fountain of Tears.
Very peaceful the place is, and solely
For piteous lamenting and sighing,
And those who come living or dying
Alike from their hopes and their fears ;
Full of cypress-like shadows the place is.
And statues that cover their faces :
But out of the gloom springs the holy
And beautiful Fountain of Tears.
And it flows and it flows with a motion
So gentle and lovely and listless,
And murmurs a tune so resistless
To him who hath suffered and hears—
You shall surely—without a word spoken,
Kneel down there and know your heart broken.
And yield to the long curb’d emotion
That day by the Fountain of Tears.
For it grows and it grows, as though leaping
Up higher the more one is thinking ;
And even its tunes go on sinking
More poignantly into the ears :
Yea, so blessed and good seems that fountain,
Reached after dry desert and mountain,
You shall fall down at length in your weeping
And bathe your sad face in the tears.
Then, alas ! while you lie there a season,
And sob between living and dying,
And give up the land you were trying
To find ’mid your hopes and your fears .
O the World shall come up and pass o’er you :
Strong men shall not stay to care for you,
Nor wonder indeed for what reason
Your way should seem harder than theirs.
But perhaps, while you lie, never lifting
1 our cheek from the wet leaves it presses,
Nor caring to raise your wet tresses
And look how the cold world appears,—
O perhaps the mere silences round you
All things in that place grief hath found you,
tea, e’en to the clouds o’er you drifting
May soothe you somewhat through your tears.
You may feel, when a falling leaf brushes
\ our face, as though some one had kissed you *
Or think at least some one who missed you
Hath sent you a thought,—if that cheers;
Or a bird’s little song faint and broken,
May pass for a tender word spoken
—Enough, while around you there rushes
That life-drowning torrent of tears.
And the tears shall flow faster and faster,
Brim over, and baffle resistance,
And roll down bleared roads to each distance
Of past desolation and years ;
Till tb*y cover the place of each sorrow,
And leave you no Past and no morrow :
lor what man is able to master
And stem the great Fountain of Tears ?
But the floods of the tears meet and gather;
The sound of them all grows like thunder':
—0 into what bosom, I wonder
Is poured the whole sorrow of years ?
For Eternity only seems keeping
Account of the great human weeping ;
May God then, the Maker and Father—
May He find a plaoe for the tears !
ARTHUR O'SHAUGHNESSY.


Medical,
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. IIEARNE.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely everiree from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, bad bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success.
“ I bought a large-size bottle of Ilearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy’ had taken this medicine for about
10 days be was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Taimvorth, N.S.W.”
“ We, the undersigned, have lead occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly’ and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”-Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, ai d
59 other leading residents.
Prepared only r , and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
w. G-. his a. fine,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. Cd. ; Large, 4s. Gd. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
WIIAT THE WORLD HAS BEEN WAITING
FOR
“Orange Lily. 9 ’
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist in all Ner-
VOU3 Diseases, Registered in England and the Colonies
as a Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation se'cond to none' for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book. Send
Six Penny Stamps at once. Write your case
freely and confidentially. The charge of
ONE POUND ONLY is made by Dr.
Wallace for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about yetting Married ?
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply Depression of spirits, bashfulness, in-
ability to look frankly into the eyes of another, head-
ache, hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
earsj weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
invaluable Female Remedies are
always Certain.
Fills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
box 920. York Street* Sydney.
Dr, George On Lee,
CHINESE DOCTOR,
23 Carlton Terrace, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
All persons suffering - from any internal diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have them dispersed
by medicine without cutting - ; also cures bad eyes, fits,
skin diseases, diphtheria and piles. He asks no questions,
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs his
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise. Has
practised 26 years in Sydney. Cunsultation fee, 10s. 6d.
Sore Throat and Diphtheria Powders sent per Post on
receipt of 11s.
MANHOOD RESTORED!
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how had the case may he.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish 1 had
known of you before. Trice, 20s. per case: with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.1
Medic? 1,
Dr. SPEER,
2Q Yor It Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Leg-ally Qualified and Registered bv the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE,
MEN
Suffering from NERVOUSNESS and DEBILITY and
EXHAUSTION should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated
Remedies, which strike at the root of the disease. The
symptoms gradually disappear, nervousness and timidity
vanish, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded , the weak and debilitated consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
J3T MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
The Special Diseases incidental to young, middle-aged,
and old ladies.
IRREGULARITIES treated with entire confidence
and success.
FEMALE PILLS,
for Irregularities and Obstructions. 10s. and 20s. per
Box (extra strong). Guaranteed.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq..;
Box 9£o G.P.0., SYDNEY.
tiSSMmigh'
itmm.
-W
Vi.ll Cure
WHEff
Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Belts' to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, how-
ever poor, need be with-
out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address —
Dr* Lamont Electric Belt Co**
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
rpHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
-L cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can he felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we' will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
cail and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers 63 Elizabeth Street SYDNEY.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTOR&L
In Four Weeks' by the use of
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 265. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope .
Agents for Australasia —Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co. t Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygiene, Infallible and Preservative.
(JUKES rrJJU'TIY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD IN PARIS by
J. FBR.PI.B
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
A PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST in NERVOUS
““ DISORDERS after many years of active practice will
now send to any poor Weak Nervous sufferer a Pre-
scription (in plain English) for Permanent Cure. Any
Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp for postage.
“ MEDICUS,” G.P.0., Sydney.
MEDICINE SENT FREE
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you nob
more than &1 ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 347, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Eoonis
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
13 7 Elizabetli-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto oaused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, <V.c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and. write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DFt. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
g thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
g the extended time he has practised as a
ilist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The'Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P>O-i Sydney,
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO ALL
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 12, 2 p.m>
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 15, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
-Oabo, Tuesday, Sept. 16. 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GEIIALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 15, 6 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 12, 2 p,m.
"Barrabool, Tuesday* Sept. 15, 5 p.in.
Cargo for all Porta received Daily.
LOWEST CTTItItENT FAKES TO ALL I'OUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—67 York-street, between King & Barrack streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
Huddart, parker § C°’ s [' ne
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA.
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
—THE—
APELAIPC STEAMSHIP Co.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to anfl from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports,
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Adelaide (from Mel,
bourne, Saturday, Sept. 12.
S.S. Bullarra (from Mel.
bourne) Tuesday, Sept. 15.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at
F rematle
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY,GERALDTON
And all North West Ports..
S.S. Adelaide (from Mel-
bourne) Saturday, Sept. 12.
S.S. Bullarra (from Mel-
bourne) Tuesday, Sept. 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Emu, Friday, Sept. 11.
-S.S. South Australian, Friday
September 18.
Best & Cheapest Moute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
N GLAND
VIA
by the
AMERICA
E
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under!—
Steamer.
MONOWAI
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 4 p.m.
Leave
Auckland,
at 2 p.m.
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
laild SALOON £66 to £67 10s.
Combination Ticket, £3l 19s. 7d. to .£5B 14s. 2d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N Z Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
«uWet near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; Harrold Bros., Adelaide; 8.1.5. N.
Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES_ MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY,
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
PAODJC.IVUrJI.XVO •> > ’
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O, including
■RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
’ H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.


SMOKE
Two Seas
AND
CORONET
TOBACCOS.
WortbiDgtoi) P(iti)pii)g Ei)gii)€ Co
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH),
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence-st.,
Sydney, N.S. W.
QUEENSLAND
VICTORIA: Mefhan Ferguson, 475 Collins, street,
Melbourne.
McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts.,
, JLJrisbane.
AVLSIMIN AUSTRALIA: Mephan Ferguson, Hay-street
J ertb ; and Imperial Chambers, Coojgardi'e.
A
trade mark*
Agencies
INliiW ZEALAND : E. Porter & Co., Queen-st., Auckland.
TASMANIA:
J. Anderson, Canterbury Foundry,
Christchurch.
Bateman & Son, St. Johns-street,
Launceston.
Are tlie Bwogni«ed Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World'
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE EOll
« E SEEAGE ’ TANK-FILLING,
WATER-SUPPLIES, MARINE, BOILER-FEEDING.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
IRRIGATION, MINING,
SINKING, CREAMERIES, WOOL-SCOURING,
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
Nyngav, Queensland,
“ I have much pleasure
in testifying to the efficacy
of Warner’s'Safe Cure.
I used it when suffering
from disease of the Liver,
and I consider it is the
best remedy in the world
for Liver Complaint,”
A. T. BLEAKLEY,
(Merchant.)
AND
KIDNEY
DISEASE.
George St., Sydney.
Sept. 6th, 1595,
" I suffered from acute
Kidney Disease followed
by dropsy, was confined
to bed 2 years, and 7
doctors pronounced my
case hopeless. Warner’s
Safe Cure and Pills en-
abled me to resume busi-
h^’h.GLENISTER.
PROOF.
CURES
LIVER
Bendigo,
Jan. 17th., IS9G,
“For many years I suf-
fered from Liver Com-
plaint. Various treat-
ments failed; but War-
ner's Safe Cure and
Warner’s Safe Pills
brought relief and a
healthy condition of the
Liver,’
H. F SMITH.
READ
THE
Lumsden, N
> May 6th, 1536,
“ I suffered very: much
with my kidneys. Pains
in my back completely
doubled me up. Three
bottles of Warner's Sale
Cure restored me to per-
fect health,”
Wm. PURDUE,
Certified by (Tailor.)
Geo. Johnson, J.P,
For Sale by Chemists and Medicine Vendors
Everywhere.
BOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Illustrated Marriage Guide.
A FULL EXPLANATION of the ORGANS OF LIFE
and GENERATION IN MANKIND,
Intended for the married, or those intending to marry and who
desire to inform themselves upon the Intent and Nature of Conjugal
Duties, to which is added a
COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE
Upon all Diseases of the Generative Organs, whether resulting from
NGSbv De f Ae’a vl U r^ ated WHh m ° re than FIFTY ENGRAY-
-INGS, by Dr. LAI AYLTTE M. BYRN, M.D. Price, 3/6; post, 4/.
Amours of Gustave, from the French Is- bv
post, Is 3d. Decameron, illustrated, Bs. ’ ’ y
R,usii for the Spoil, Nana, Human Brutes, genuine
editions, by Zola, Is Cd ; post, 2s. Send for new list
Plain Home Talk About the Human System new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d •
send for pamphlet giving full contents gratis. ’ ’
Romance of A Fair Girl’s . Bathroom, price, is
6d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, illustrated 3s
Mysteries Court of by G, W. Reynolds
2s ; post, 2s Cd. Rose Foster, post : 2s Cd. ’
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, is cd
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s
Moll Flanders,’ gen. edition, unabridged, post 2 C
Iruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlauo-h prose'
cuted book, Is ;by post, Is 2d. ° prose
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s Cd ; post 4s
Maria Monk, Is Cd; post, Is 9d " ’
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d. 011 «uld
Speeches and Toasts, ready-made for every occasion •
public speaking made easy, Is Cd, post free • ’
Boxing Swimming and Gymnastics, without a master
post free The Lover’s Letter Writer, post freels’
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free P 1
Ovid s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free. '
Evkr. L itta°3, RI)S ' f ' ,n directions, Is 2d post.
/? . * lis OwN Schoolmaster, or How to
E Mv^ Tt ' °n K 8 Self * illustrated, post free Is 6d
ViHi in KRN T ETr< I UET TB— Parties, Courtship, Love, ’Dress
V Tiie\mT d ?° n8 ' Weddings, &c„ Is 6d post free.’
priyatebook, ls 6d D ’ y Lamartine - illustr ated
'cards'ex p?ained[
free? Is 3d * home a " d public amu sement, Is ; post
Lo?eHnesTpr T ic O e!i® EAUTY REV ™-Guide to Female
n hfl!uiJ ALE Generative Organs, their use and abuse,
n heaith and disease, from infancy to old age with
the treatment of all their derangements, for everv man’s
private use, by Dr. F. HollickfM.D. ; engravinirs and
ggftfiS! n6W reviBed Austra,ian edi «on. Price,
qJ^S; FB ’ 8 Handbook, illustrated, Radical Remedy in
til . S °v nce i regulating reproduction, latest informa-
tion, limiting family. Post free, Is 2d. a
rea^r : pos P o7;el!T s V 6cl i . llUafcratedgUide *° charact «
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR Cheap Book Depot,
■ '■■■ —~ — iMimin 16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
MEMOR'S" culture
l*rof. Loise Kc’s System of Assimilative
Memory.
(Established a Quarter of a Century.)
/V SYSTEM by which the memory can be trained to re-
produce Facts, Quotations, Poetry, and all the Daily
Occurrences of Life with certainty. Renders success in
examination sure. Oral lectures now being given in
Sydney. Can be learnt also by correspondence. Founded
on sound scientific principles." Apply Prof. A. LOISETTE.
Box 1234 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Medical.
Rheumatism. Lumbago, Old Sores, and
Influenza, etc., Cured.
SUFFERERS from above should USE
MILLER’S Pure Tasmanian Blue Gum
OIL, the results are marvellous. Numerous Testimonials.
Bottles 1/- each at all chemists. Post free 1/4.
Wholesale— T. Rhodes, 108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NOTE.—COMMON Eulalyptus Oil is USELESS.
ft
sir
Wa
Weakness and Disease of Man
Quickly, thoroughly and permanently cured
by new perfected scientific methods, that
cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a
benefit every day ; soon know yourself a king
amono- men in body, mind and heart:
Every obstacle to a happy
married life removed. Nerve force, will,
energy, brain power, when failing- or lost are
restored by our treatment. All weak parts
of the body strengthened and developed.
Victims of abuse and excesses, reclaim
your manhood ! Sufferers from folly, over-
work, early errors, ill health, regain your
vigor ! Don’t despair, even if in the last
stages. Don’t be disheartened if quacks
have robbed you. Let us show you medical
science and business honor still exist.
The President of the Institute ,is the only
Practitioner that has been presented by the
Boston Herbal Association and the New York
Scientific Investigation Society with their
gold medals and orders of merit, and holds
letters of congratulation for the success of
his scientific discoveries from the leading
Practitioners of the Old and New World.
Patients living at a distance who cannot
conveniently visit us, when writing, should
state their case as minutely as possible,
and those requiring immediate treatment
remit 510 s. for remedies, which will be for-
warded securely packed to any address orj
station. Our preparations cannot be sup-
plied in pill form, as each case receives
separate consideration, the Remedies being
specially prepared under the direct super- j
vision of the President.
•lust Published—Pocket Medical Guide, 1
containing remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
&c., sent free on receipt of address.
Address the President, or
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute,
11a FLINDERS-ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Personal Consultations Daily. ...
Private Waiting Rooms.
Letters of thanks received daily from re-
stored and grateful patients! who had pre-
viously given up all hope.
CONSULT Dr. FREEMAN.
This well-known and RELIABLE SPECIALIST treats
Chronic and Nervous Diseases of Men. He
cures Secret Blood and Skin Diseases, Sores and Swell-
ings, DEBILITY, and other Weaknesses. His NEW
PAMPHLET sent FREE TO ALL who write regarding
their trouble. PATIENTS CURED at HOME, and
medicines sent free from observation.
Dr. FREEMAN, P.O. Box 1359,
ELIZABETH STREET (corner Bathurst-st.), SYDNEY.
French Safety Fills.
IV/r AKE life a pleasure and existence a joy. They are a
certain and speedy cure for all Irregularities and
Obstructions of the system. For females of all ages these
pills are invaluable, as a few doses of them carry off all
humors," and bring about all that is required. No female
should be without them. Guaranteed safe and sure. Box
posted, 7/6; extra strong, 20/-. Write Professor
H-AUTMONT, R.M.D., Victoria-st., North Melbourne.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write-
-29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
LOOP POISON
A SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
or Tertiary BLOOD I*o ISO A' per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You can
be treated at home for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
here we will contract to pay railroad and
steamship fare and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge, if we fail to cure. If you have taken
mercury, iodide potash, and Still have aches
and pains, Mucous Patches in the mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-CoJored Spots, Ul-
cers on any part of the body, Hair or Eyebrows
falling; oat, it is this Secondary BhOOD POI-
SON we guarantee to cure. We solicit the most
obstinate cases and challenge the world for
a case we cannot cure. Physicians cannot
curei you. $500,000 capital behind our uncondi
tional guaranty. Absolute proofs sent sealed on
application. Address COOK RUMEBT CO*
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A.
T
lALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Tlie Most Popular
Beverag<
Victoria.


T . Q o i-g i
BEFORE YOU
T» 33 -A- F>_!
When you go out shopping, consider, think
of the money in your pocket, and take account
of the many stores whose various attractions
are laid before you. There is A, with temp-
tation in the form of a pretty show ; there is
I>, whose wiles are innumerable ; and C,
who says that he is the man for your money ;
and so on, throughout a list as long as
Cfeorge-street, each smiling dealer has some-
thing to say and to offer.
Please Pause!
Hearken not to the song of the syren, sing
she ever so sweetly ; heed not the voice of
the charmer, charm he never so wisely.
Your pocket’s concerned ; and there are
pirates about. As the poet pertinently puts
it: “ There be land-sharks and water-
sharks,” and it is for you to see that your
dealings are with none of these voracious
monsters. Take warning in time, for it will
be no use when the new taxes come round—
and the tax-gatherer won’t take no for an
answer—for you to plead : There would have
been enough and to spare had I been wise
enough to
Buy Everything
. AT . .
ANTHONY HORDERN’S,
ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS-.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
PURE BLOOD
Is the source of good health.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
UM&
o
&
PEER’S
&
O
o
AS
s\D
o
Makes Pure Blood,
Strengthens the Nerves,
Sharpens the Appetite,
Removes that Tired Feeling,
and Makes Life Worth Living.
Sufferers
from indiges-
tion, general
debility, skin
I diseases, or
'any other ail-
ment arising
from impure
blood, should
take
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
of cheap imitations. Tho
name—Ayer’S Sarsaparilla—is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in
the glass of each bottle,
Wt C K REGULATOR
if/Si
"m
PateHT
u
SCALE ONE FIFTH
BRANDTS
“aNTi-CaNDLE.”
A Kerosene Candle with New Light
Spreader. For Candlesticks and Carriage
Lamps. Entirely supersedes the ordinary
candle. 110 HOURS' LIGHT at a COST
of ONE PENNY. Prices—l/6 and 20.
Postage 2d. each extra. Last for years.
Trilby Glow Night Damp— 2oo
Hours’ Light costs Id. It converts kero-
sene into gas. 1 6 each; 2 - each by post.
Genuine Primus Kerosene Gas
Stove— No wick, no smell, easily man-
aged. Converts kerosene into gas. Boils
Jgal. of water in Smins. Heats flat-irons,
grills and toasts. Price, 12 6 ; by post to
any address, 1/6 extra.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lampmakers and Importers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
c>
s
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren s sweet)
<strtPiJC> M
e ' M
Lancet.
-saRTO
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
M
ONTSERRAT
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only tlie
Famous Montserrat
used in ifcs production
tiolct Everywhere.
never allows his taste to fall short of his shoes. My
new walking shoes at 11/6 furnish a bigger field for
taste than most others, and can be the making or the
breaking of a pair of feet in more senses than one.
My new walking shoes at 11/6 are going to be the
making of hundreds of feet this summer and the
saving of many hundred pounds.
Eleven shillings and sixpence for a pair of really good,
serviceable shoes, cannot be considered too much.
Patrons in the country add 1/- for postage.
Orders by post will receive prompt attention. Stcite
size and whether broad or narrow toes.
JOHN HUNTER,
QCiccb? St., Brisbafyc.
BRANCHES and SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
CURES
PAIN
Use for Colds, Rheumatism,
tfia
ii
Lumbago, Stiff Joints, and
other similar ailments.
These are all permanently
cured bv the use of
HOMOCEA.
It soothes the aching parts,
stops the pain, and cures
the disease. Sold by all
chemists.
Sole proprietors:
Xiie HOMOCEA Company, Ltd-. Birkenhead.
PARKER’S
Australian Hair Preserver.
Those who use it will never
become Bald.
* * *
It entirely removes Dandruff.
* * *
It promotes the G-rowth of the
Hair.
* » *
Ladies will find it a perfect
boon; it is not a dye —it
is not sticky or greasy.
One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
1
' .
m
/ V
This pure and excellent
remedy is now under Vice-
liegal patronage, and is used
by leading ladies of the colony
with most gratifying results.
If not procurable from your Chemist or Storekeeper, SAMPLE BOTTLE will be sent to you on
receipt of 3/6 in Money Order or Stamps. Testimonials from well-known citizens forwarded on
application to. niTRTTN. Sole Azerit. 84 Market Street, SYDNEY.
H. HILLIER,
Manufacturer <£ Importer,
135 AND 137
Sussex Street, Sydney.
1896 BICYCLES from the manufactory in Birmingham to my stores priCes
ROADSTER DUNLOP, Pneumatic Tires, Tanfrent Spokes (atoo Ladies) £l3 l o s. , Cush l onTmes ilO.
Don’t fonret the SULKY, as shown with Cushions, price as usual, £7 15s. , LUCK BOARD “UOUiES, *,IU 10s.
All other light vehicles in stock, or Made to Order. It doesn’t matter what you want in this line—j ou can get
it Word—HILLIER’S Saddles, known all over the colony for LOW PRICES. Saddles, complete, from
395. 6d. It applies also to Harness ; you can get any style at any price from 393. upwards. Send for Catalogue.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion ot the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
i Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Bianc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
Hards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE MORTGAGE.
“ We will pay the debt, husband,” she said,
And blushed at the name (they were newly wed),
“ We’ll fight the mortgage and beat it, wife.”
He smiled at the word that crowned his life.
“ Yes ! you and I, with love for a charm,
Will surely win back our hillside farm.”
They fought the mortgage from dewy morn
With their hoes among the tasseled corn,
And at noon from out the pungent smoke
Came crashing tree and the axe’s stroke ;
And deep in the night on ev’ry hand
Blazed their forest fires to clear the land;
Working along, with many a jest
At their savings in the old ship’s chest,
Where they hid away the interest.
But a mortgage grows when crops are dry,
And a mortgage lives when cattle die,
And it flourishes when the bitter gale
Cuts the blossomed bough with slanting hail;
And one bad season would do more harm
Than dozens good for their hillside farm.
So the mortgage ground them year by year,
Took the old mare’s foal and the milker’s steer,
Stole from the matron’s step its grace,
And scored its lines on her husband’s face.
The corn they grew and the wine they pressed
Were swallowed up by the interest.
Like that gruesome plant that only thrives
On flesh, it reached to the children’s lives,
And held them, too, in its cramping band
The powerless serfs of the mortgaged land.
It forced the girls to the milking stool
When other children were still at school,
And their only son went out afar
To northern scrubs where the gold-fields are ;
Bor he said, “ You have toiled and now are old,
And gold must ever be fought with gold;
Let me then start on the northern track,
I’ll bring the price of the mortgage back.”
From the farther ridge a glimpse they had
Of mettled horses and eager lad —
Saw saddle-hack jflunge and pack-horse sjiy,
When he waved his hat in a last good-bye.
He was gone. Aye, gone where lost men go :
They would see him never ; never know
If the ranges hid, or tawny flood
Had wrapped his bones in the mangrove mud.
The weary waiting : the wearing dread—
“ If I but knew that my son was dead ! ”
And, later, “ Oh, had he only died
Here in our home by his mother’s side ! ”
What need to follow the dreary tale
Through dragging years to the clearing sale ?
They fought their fight till the setting sun,
And when old age grasped them the mortgage won.
Q.
R.A.F.
THE DINGO OF BRIGALOW GAP.
For K.G-. or coronet, kingdom or crown,
The boys on Kalangada care not a rap ;
But the honor they ask for is galloping down
The red and white dingo of Brigalow Gap;
He has beaten us fairly at every exchange,
He is hard to keep up with and harder to track ;
He knows every stone on the Brigalow Range
The fastest and wildest and worst of the pack.
Good horses behind him with rowels we’ve raked :
On Bogan the bushcrows are feasting their fill,
And Footstep is foundered and Starlight is staked,
But the red and white dingo makes light of us
still ;
For him a fast gallop is nothing but fun—
Too cunning to poison, to wary to trap,
You can’t get the sight of a rifle or gun
On the red and white dingo of Brigalow Gap.
He has tasted the Lincolns and fancies the breed,
He has tried the Kalangada culls for a change,
And we know that he’ll never go short of a feed
As long as our wethers run under the range.
He’s the scourge of the country, the plague of the
spot,
The curse of the owner, the bane of the boss,
For he’s got to be reckoned with, like it or not,
When the latter is squaring his profit and loss.
On the walls of the stable are trophies galore,
The goal and the guerdon of many a ride ;
And a place is reserved at the top of the door
For the honor of holding his red and white
hide ;
But the days and the weeks they go merrily by,
The skins on the stable-wall flutter and flap,
they have plenty of time to get shrivelled and dry
While they wait for the dingo of Brigalow Gap.
There are yellows and brindles and crossbreds of
black,
The pride of the station, the talk of the town,
But we’d gladly give all to be out on his track,
With his stride getting short and the crows
coming down.
His life may be safe, but, believe me, for that
He hasn’t Kalangada kindness to thank :
We tracked him two days ago over the flat,
We heard him last night at the Marathon Tank,
And we saw him to-day as he skirted the brush
A mile from the corner of Halliday s fence.
We took to him then with a cavalry rush,
And charged the thick scrub with more spirit
than sense: .
For, whenever that Devil’s Limb leads us a dance,
We gallop to glory, whatever may hap ;
But down in the gully we got our last glance
At the red-and-white dingo of Brigalow Gap.
He has conquered us fairly, we’re bound to confess
(We claim to be sportsmen, and know when
we’re beat);
His triumph the greater, our credit the less
That we ride fairly well, and our horses are fleet.
Perhaps, when the days of the dingo are done,
And the race, barring him, is extinct in the land,
When cocky-selectors have swallowed the run,
And various fortunes have scattered our band ;
Perhaps, when with sorrow that scarce can be
He watches the last of his foemen depart;
When the sheep-walks are furrowed and planted
with corn, , . ,
And the want of a gallop is breaking his heart,
When his life is a burden bereft of its joys,
That old age embitters and sicknesses sap,
He’ll suffer the greybeards that once were ' the
boys ”
To catch him on foot in the Brigalow Gap.
W. H. OGILVIE.


Australian Mutual Pt?o *™, d shifty
The Oldest Mutual Life Aaaimnm Knninf-.v eatriVilisliprl V 1 IJ X N -J. X.IJ •
1 Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman;
£ T. WALKER, Esq.; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq.; TIIOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.;
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two millions Sterling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
He ad Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
COAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS:
MXean Bros. & Ri gg Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
J)ON’T IMAGINE
that because Spring has come
and the cold, wet winter lias
gone that your Cough is going
to get well of itself. If you
do you will probably have to
wait longer than you wish.
COUGHS and COLDS, the
simplest of simple maladies,
are the hardest things to cure,
especially when- they are epi-
demic, as they have been this
winter. Be wise. Ask your
chemist for one bottle of
OUT THIS OUT.
WATT’S
CARRAGH EE N.
Tt is your only friend if you
did but know it. Try it and
see.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect in
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
which so fa vorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearing C. B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents— .l. 13. NEWPORT A SONS,
Chisholm Lane, Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Melrourne.
AUSTRAL OVERCOATS
EQUAL TO ORDER—in FASHION, FIT, and FINISH.
Look Well! Fit Well! Wear WellT
At PRICES to DEFY COMPETITION. Befoi-e opdering-, call and inspect..
GENT’S WINTER HOSIERY
UNDER-SHIRTS, PANTS, HALF-HOSE, etc., etc., in
NATURAL WOOL, CASHMERE, LAMB’S WOOL, MERINO, ETC;
Our Own Importing- Direct from the best English manufacturers.
UMBRELLAS- a Speciality.
ROWING BEOS.,
Austral Clothiers & Outfitters,
486, 488, 490 George Street, SYDNEY (opp. Main. Entrance New Markets),,
BRYANT & MAY’S WRX VCSTAS
and
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Medals for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
T USTRALI AN HR ANDY
(Joshua Bros . “Boomerang 99 Brand).
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
&3T Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac. TfiSi
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
LAW & COMPY.,
Boot and Shoe Manufacturers,
155 Bwanston-street, Melbourne.
Our NEW SEASON’S TAN BOOTS in Russian or
Ooze Calf will well bear comparison with the best bespoke
bootmakers’ work in MAKE, MATERIAL and FINISH. ''
. . They are a standard for the trade to work up to. . .
Post free Victoria, 215.; other colonies, 225.
Call and Inspect—or send for Catalogue with instructions
for Self-Measurement.
Tlie London
AND
Have just received a Gigantic Shipment of ASSORTED
TWEEDS, WORSTEDS, and SERGES. Asthese
Goodshave been PURCHASED FOR CASH in the CHEAPEST
MARKET, Customers can rely on getting clothes made at
least 20 per cent, cheaper than at any other Tailoring Estab-
lishment in the City.
Our 50s. Corkscrew
not to be equalled in Sydney,
splendid value. Our 455.
Tweed Suits are Al. Our
at £5 cannot be excelled.
Style. PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED
OR MONEY RETURNED.
Patterns, Measurement Forms and Tape free by post.
31 Erskine Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Worsted Sac Suits (bound) are
Our 50s. Serge Sac Suits are
Scotch or West of England
speciality in Evening Dress Suits
All Garments turned out in First-class
Tailoring Co.,
S. M. BATTMASHE, Manager.
Business Announcements.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N. S. WALES.
mmm
i
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN ... Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
The Pickering Governor.
SOLE A.G-EKTTS :
H. P. GREGORY
& COMP AMY,
499 BOUIIKE STREET, MELBOURNE;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
Write for Prices and particulars.
Bodalla Cheese
The finest in the market. Our Registered
Brand is on every Cheese.
Eotialla, Bacon.
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
EodLalla. ECa.zias
In get-up and quality are equal to the best
English.
It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are sellim--
other Colonial Cheese under the name of BODALLa’
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN:,
Wholesale Agent,
2V9 SUSSEX. STREET,- SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
INSURE with an AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
City Mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Offices: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Chairman—The Hon. John See, M.P.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £163,478.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
All Eunds Invested in Australia.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 17 Years - £125,000
I®" INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Transacts EIRE Insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., £B47B— divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making 1 £82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire- Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,000.
Progress of the Society, 1873-1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ... £22, 310,058
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,40 a
Cash Surplus at 31st December, 1894-
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., Acting General Manager 1 ;
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Australian Branch: W. M ‘Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide: E. H. Peachey. L. A. Jessop, Director.
Melbourne: D. Clyne. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
l3l Pitt-Street, SYDNEY.
VOLCANIC
Soda Water
Is ABSOLUTELY PURE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
The Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Co.,
Bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
DIXSON 8t sons
©"ring 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN LEAP'
than did- all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yankee Poodle.
A semi-dark plug. No tobacco has gained such vast popularity in so short-
a ime. uring the last two years the increase has reached over 100 per"
cent, more than that of the preceding year.
Cooqtieror.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South Wales.-
PixSoo’S New CooqCieror.
To many smokers an improvement on the old by reason of its aroma'
and flavor.
Cbarppioi) Aronjatic.
Long and Rough Cut, Navy Cut, Blended Stock. Nothing can exceed
in quality these gold leaf goods.
DARK TWISTS— UncIe Sam, Sir Roger, Centennial, Early Bird, etc
DARK PLUG —Dollar, Centennial, etc.
AROMATICS —Golden Plum, Twin Star Curls, Cloth of Gold.
CATALOGUE OF PRICES AND SHOW CARDS SENT POST FREE.
Importers of Pipes and Tobacconists’ Wares in Great and Newest Varieties;
AGENTS FOR
CIGARETTES.
Mofyopolc RotbScbildS, La RoSiija, Flor d? Visto Cigars


The Bulletin
at Ot General feet Offee, Sydney, far IramMan hy pa* at a Mmpaper.
You 17.—N0. 865.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1896.
Priob, 6d.
THE LLS OF CHILDHOOD.
THE CONVALESCENT: "There! the football sedson is over; but farliameut will last tiil November. If I can survire till then,
I may manage to pull throuah the summer."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
(t Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at.the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 12 G
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 G 6
NOTICE.
By sending'direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required-
winch you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
weelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
ARCIIIBALDi
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
wjiether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other, topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
intei csting photograph 'illustrative of a current event,
tvill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion i.e., any yictuic which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
ajtei the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Str'eet, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street & Co., Cornhill.
South AFRWA.—iJ. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Sweet, Capetoivn. Also in tiie Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— lf. M. Smith <£• Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Lcvuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Westralia and Alaoriland.
consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
*!° s - a ?. e 011 Tnterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is now £l, with ?s 2d
postage PoSta!,e ‘ En o land «'ith 6s. 6d. added for
] l ? ws P ( VPer can be sent unless the subscription is
pi epaid. 1 here will be no exception to this rule.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1896.
The South Australian Widow.
A MEASURE now before S.A. Parliament for
readjusting certain of the relations between
the old man and the new woman promises to
raise much social and political dust before it
is finally disposed of. It was introduced by
King O Malley, the glorified American
bagman and M.P:, and its main provision is
that, when the old man dies, his widow shall
inherit one-tliird of his property, despite all
wills, testaments, and codicils to the coiir
trary, and as much more of it as she can get.
That is to say, she may still inherit all the
property, or three-fourths or half of it, or any
other proportion she can secure, provided it
be not less than one-third, but at least one-
third of her husband’s net belongings are-to
be hers unconditionally when, he shuffles off,
and no document which he can leave behind
will deprive her of it. This proposal sits
down hard on, several legal traditions of
great antiquity, and the lawyers of S.A.
Assembly—Premier Kingston included—are.
mostly hostile as a natural consequence. It
badly infringes the liberty of the male sub-
ject to dispose of his property as he pleases,
and, to a great extent, to dispose,of his wife
also. It prohibits him absolutely throwing
her out when he is done with her. It also
prohibits him condemning her to celibacy
for the remainder of her life by making all
Ijer property forfeitable if she re-marries.
By doing these things it even raises a serious
doubt as to whether he really owns the lady,
and whether she doesn’t to some extent okn
herself. And while thus infringing the'
liberty of the male subject, it- confers on the
female one a lot of liberty which she hasn’t
previously enjoyed, but the law has hardly
yet grown accustomed to considering the
female subject as one who requires any
liberty.
* * * *
There are many arguments to be advanced
on each side of the case, and they look
almost equally convincing, though on grounds
of public policy The Bulletin regards
O’Malley’s scheme with favor. In theory,
every man has a right to dispose of his pro-
perty as he pleases. In practice, he has no
such right. Many years ago it dawned on
legislators that, if a man died leaving behind
him a large fortune, and directed that it
should be tied up in the hands of trustees to
accumulate at compound interest for an
enormous number of years, and he succeeded
in finding reliable trustees, and restricted
them to safe investments, his heir, when the
trust expired, might own one-half the earth,
or even more. Therefore, on grounds of
public safety, it put a strict limit to the
duration of such trusts, and thus decided
that a man has no absolute right to bequeath
his property as he pleases. In the present
case, it is merely proposed to carry the same
policy a little further, for equally good
reasons. In frequent instances, the man who
accumulates property does so partly by deny-
ing himself and partly by denying his wife ;
the pile is very often the result of their com-
bined labor, brains, and penuriousness, and
the law which allows the old man in all cases
to bequeath his partner’s share as well as his
own to some third party is manifestly unfair.
Against this, the other theory is that a wife
who brings nothing into the partnership, and
doesn’t contribute to making the fortune,
and who is unfaithful, and throws crockery
at the old man, and hastens his
end in Various ways, will have an equally
good lien upon his fortune. The question is
practically whether the bad old man should
have power to disinherit his deserving wife
and let her starve in her old age, because he
wants to leave all his property to some
church as a fire insurance on his depraved
soul, or out of pure cussedness, or out of
vanity because he desires to build a gorgeous
structure to his own memory, or because he
wants to endow his pet barmaid, or for other
unsavory reasons—or, on the other hand,
whether the good old man should be com-
pelled to endow the gold-washed harridan
whom he married in a moment of aberra-
tion, and who made his existence a misery
ever afterwards.
* * * *
This paper believes that he ought, as the
less of two evils. Obviously if he doesn’t
provide for her maintenance somebody else
must, and he might as well do it as anybody
else. The law requires every man to main-
tain his wife during his lifetime if he has the
means, and it is absurd for the same law to
allow him to leave her absolutely without
maintenance after his death. This is giving
him when he is dead a power which he
didn’t possess when he was alive. Also, the
law under which a man may require his
widow, possibly little more than a girl, to
remain unmarried for the rest of her life
under penalty of losing her fortune, is con-
trary to public policy. It puts a distinct
premium on immorality ; she may become
somebody’s mistress and still remain inde-
pendent, but if she becomes a wife she
is financially ruined, therefore she has a
strong cash inducement to accept the worse
alternative. The statute which, merely for
the sake of preserving the alleged right of
every citizen to do as he pleases with his
own property, permits any corpse to offer
such inducements to. any live person, is cer-
tainly carrying the law of property to
extremes. The best plea yet advanced for
the continuance of the existing system
is that the Fat Man should be allowed to get
even with his unworthy wife, if he wants to,
by leaving her penniless.. This assumes that
in cases of disagreement the Fat Man’s, wife
is always to blame—that he is always the
best judge of whether she is unworthy or
not—and that if the lady is so bad that she
shouldn’t be maintained out of his estate she
is good enough to be maintained, if neces-
sary, at the cost of somebody else.
When it is, claimed that it would be
a ? 1. ou ,trage if the law did not give every
citizen, the right to. leave his widow wholly
unproyided for on the ground that she may
deserve to be so treated, or that he may
think she does, several very large assump-
tions are thrown in,. The law is presumably
trying, to do its best for the deceased, and
the theory that the best it can do for him is
to, let him die with the pleasant conscious-
ness tlia.t his relict is left to poverty is, a
toierably low-down species of morality.
From the religious point of view, too, the
assumption, that his soul, wherever it has
gone—supposing that he has a. soul, and
assuming that it has gone any where in par-
ticular—will feel any better for having done
this is a depressing view of Christianity. Yet
either the law—which, claims to be a Chris-
tian, institution, and opens Parliament with
prayer, and makes people sweat; on, a
microbe-infected Bible, and, ask,s that the
Lord will have mercy on, the hanged, man’s,
soul-does think this, or else it doesn’t tlnnk
the deceased, has a spul, op else it doesn’t
care how, his,soul feels, Moreover, a need-
lessly-hungry widow is, npt a pleasant affair
for humane people to .contemplate, and, what-
ever her demerits, it is,questionable whether
any man has a right, for his own private
to inflict this unpicturesque
spectacle on persons who never did
him any injury. If the question is to lie
between making the man who is dead
feel annoyed—if he is capable of feeling any-
thing—at the thought that she is provided for,
and making people who are alive feel uncom-
fortable by seeing that she isn’t, the most
reasonable course seems to be for the corpse
to give way. There is no proof that he has
any knowledge of the matter, and there is
abundant proof that the other people have.
Anyhow, if there is no outrage on property
in the fact that the law doesn’t allow the live
man with means to eject his wife into a cold
world simply on his own unsupported asser-
tion that she deserves to be so ejected, or on
no assettion at all, unsupported or otherwise,
then there seems to be no reason why it
should be more regardful of the dead one.
* * * *
Premier Kingston opposes the proposed
change on the general ground that “no ne-
cessity for it has ever arisen within his
knowledge.” This, however, doesn’t neces-
sarily prove anything. Within The Bulle-
tin’s knowledge, cases have arisen in which
the want of such a law was very evident—
not many cases, certainly, but still enough
to make an argument in favor of O’Malley’s
scheme. What proportion of cases there
may be which escape both Mr. Kingston
ancl The Bulletin’s notice it is impossible
to say. At all events, if Mr. Kingston
holds that it is safe to entrust the average
man with power to leave his wife unprovided
for after his death on the ground that he
won’t misuse it, he should also be prepared
to make it optional whether he supports her
or not while he is alive on the ground that
he can be trusted not to misuse that power
also. If the law can’t trust him in the latter
case—and the Statute-book seems to assert
that it can’t—then there seems no reason
why it should trust him in the former; If
O’Malley’s proposal becomes law, however,
it is practically certain that the matter will
not end there. It is impossible for the
law to give the wife a definite claim on
the estate of the old mau deceased without
giving the children a similar claim. Fur-
ther, it is hardly possible to give the wife
a claim without ultimately giving the mistress
—where there is no wife and a man habitu-
ally lives with a woman to whom he is not
married—some kind of lien also. If the male
citizen is compelled to recognise the claims
of his wife, then to allow him to ignore those
of his mistress means authorising him to
punish her not only for her immorality but
for his own. It likewise means giving the
bad man—bad according to the canons of
conventional Grundyism—a right denied to
the (conventionally) good man, which is
wholly illogical. Further, it is an open ques-
tion whether, in cases where the property is
small, the limitation of the widow’s claim to
one-third is not almost as great an injustice
as the present system. The whole question
consists in striking a balance between the
rights of the man and the woman, and the
public on whose hands the woman may be
left, and, on the whole, The Bulletin in-
clines to give the woman the benefit of
the doubt, where there is one. As a rule,
the widower has the same prospects of earn-
ing a livelihood after his bereavement as
before; the widow, in most cases, is pro-
spectless—has no trade or profession or
occupation of her own whatever ; if she
originally had one she has usually lost it.
The joint property is generally in the hus-
band’s possession, except where he is a
fraudulent insolvent. The average woman
has no chance to provide for herself, for her
only payment is her board and her clothes.
Also, the world, which is a cold place for the
average man, is. a still colder one for the
woman, whose wages are lower and oppor-
tunities fewer, and therefore she can make
out a tolerably good claim for special con-
sideration. Consequently, The Bulletin
gives its vote to that gaudy and diffuse
American, King O’Malley, on the present
occasion, on- the general ground that the
widow of romance and the widow of reality
are two very different individuals., and that
if even a very little can be done to l prevent
the latter going out washing, so frequently it
will be a little done in the right direction.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trespassers Beware!
Ihe Law Institute of N.S.W. is just now seek-
ing to prosecute a Sydney wine-merchant for
trespassing on its sacred preserves. The trader
in question had a customer who,, seemingly
was slow to pay the little account,, and did not
appear likely to pay it within a reasonable
period unless strong persuasive measures were
resorted to. The usual practice in such cases
is to put the claim in, the hands of a solicitor
who writes a threatening letter,, at the cost of a
guinea expenses, or thereabouts,, to, be bluffed
out of the customer if possible, and, if the
formal demand is met by payment of the
amount due only, the client gets- his money
(always supposing that the legal gent doesn’t
stick, to it) less the guinea—or whatever less fee
ay have been, arranged.. Consequently, the
?n nSkS C f l0 ' 8 ° f 21s -> 01 ' thereabouts!
in this form, °f obtaining what is due to him
The .Sydney wine-merchant stands accused by
the Law Institute of haying himself
ac ed as professional d.ebt - extractor hi
order to save expenses. His customer
receiveda letter signed «R. C . Law
sohcitor demanding payment of the hill’
which letter somehow came into the clutch of
tlie Institute, vvith the result that R, C. Law
was proved to be a bogus person, There is no
solicitor of that name upon the roll. The mer-
chant professes innocence of any attemoT n
obtain payment of his bill under fidse pretences
He states that he did actually employ the im
postor Law, believing the man to be a genuine
lawyer, but whether the explanation be True o!
otherwise it doesn’t affect the morality of the
Law Institutes indignation. Practicallv the
wine-merchant is charged with havtg p er som
ally written a certain letter for an honeft bus
ness purpose, instead of hiring 7 T
write it for him. H e couldn’t h\ w c W^ e ! , l .°
alleged “offenee ”tV COlUc a b h ave carried his
Uuf <1 Th < fT.hic°S in^'T 81 ' 1 tk “
and Judges are , P , ” J or la w-courts
lice “o/tLr aw™ -Sf,* 0 ? btei " i»-
lawyers in t l„ first place a'™ u.e'T
11 {»«• x Sss
““ “■ ->-**«■* >.!.
fore, “R. 0. Law,” not being a recognisec
practitioner, was not a possible intruder upon
the bunting-ground of the profession, but
merely a device (alleged) for avoiding the in-
currence of a lawyer’s fee outside the court,
Ihe letter demanding payment of the wine*
merchants account ought to have been worth
at least a, guinea to the profession, says the
Law Institute, and inasmuch as it was worth
nothing at all the Institute is full of wrath.
Such economical proceedings must be put down
with a firm hand.
♦
The Half-Holiday Problem.
liie stereotyped howl now going tip re the
proposed compulsoi-y weekly half-holiday for
shop-assistants in Victoria is the loss which it
must cause to the shopkeeper. “One house in
a Melbourne suburb,” writes a bilious bar-
facker, “ will lose in turnover at least £IOO,OUO
pei annum if this Saturday craze is carried out;
and at least a-third of that amount if Wednes-
day comes into force.” A good many other
people hold forth in the same strain, the evi-
dent assumption being that if shops shut up for
one half-day the money they now take on that
half-day will be altogether lost. In other
words, if all the shops closed one-half of every
day the aggregate takings would go down 50
per cent ; people would only eat and drink half
as much, and wear half as much clothing,
boots and hats, and read half as many books,
and everybody would save half his wages forth-
with, And, on the other hand, it follows that
it all shops remained open night and day for
seven days a week, the takings would be
doubled, and to do this people would eat and
cnnk and wear twice as much, and every man
would smoke two cigars or pipes at once, and
have four boots on simultaneously, and spend
twice as much money as he has, and sleep
m two beds every night. The real proba-
ii !i tI^ fc no ? alam ity will happen at
all, things will remain just as they
are. The average person spends all the
money he has, and he will most likely go on
doing so whether the shops are open six days
oi only s)r. It won’t make any difference in
ins appetite, or make liis boots last any longer,
or limit his wants in any way. The bogey
about the immense loss of trade through a shop-
keepers weekly half - holiday is about the
poorest-looking spectre which Fat Man lias
pioduced up to date. If the loss through
closing on Saturday afternoon will ruin the
shopkeeper, the chances are that the loss
through not opening on Sunday must have
r^ n ? . " lm a l rea dy, and in that case the mis-
chief is already done.
Payment of Fossils,
The recent awful walk-over in Vic, Leg.
Council elections, when all the retiring fossils
were sent back unopposed save one, who refused
to go back, moves the Age to the following
sorrowful observations :
■>rS*L Si f e ° f , the Provinces, the expense of the contest,
w the fact that there is no payment of members puts it
h e £on« the po , v V l ' of an - v hut a man with a long purse to
iness his candidature. It is thus that the country at
iho f ’fv,f e ® lin ®« I , t 2 el tT Shut out from all voice and vote in
|h e , & , ha P ln K °Cthe Upper Chamber, has quietly acquiesced
o the periodical farce by which a number of elderly
gentlemen walk out and in again under the form of
going to the country.”
Ihe matter might be put a lot more strongly
even than this. No man is eligible to beau
M.L.C. in Victoria unless he is 30 years of age,
and possesses an estate worth at least ,£lOO a
year. As he has to devote his time to the
work without salary,- he needs, over and
this > a private income of £4OO or
£ooo a year more. Also, the vast size of
the constituencies makes it very expensive to
light an election against the fossil in possession,
aaa° 80 * s lieces sary to have another
£lOOO or so of loose cash, and be willing to
spend it in struggling for an uncongenial billet.
Ihere is no fame to be got in the Council as it
now is, and very little prospect of a portfolio,
and no political advancement worth speaking
of ;• and as there is also much expenditure and
no income the chance of finding progressive
candidates under existing conditions seems
very poor, The Bulletin now agrees fully with
its correspondent of a few weeks back, that
the . best almost the only—wav to demo-
ciatise the Upper House is for the Assembly—
the. House with the purse -t— to insist on l
paying its members a handsome salary. It
would have to be a handsome one—probably
<£ooo a year—partly because there is a much
more expensive scrimmage to get into the
Council than the Assembly, partly because
the property-qualification leaves comparatively
few eligible candidates to choose from and it
is necessary to induce a large proportion of
these few eligibles to come forward, partly on
the common, vulgar,, brutal ground that it
generally costs more to induce a rich man to-
leave his occupation for polities than a poor
one, as lie has a more valuable occupa-
tion to leave. But even if it was necessary
to give £lOOO, a year it would only cost £48,000’
per annum, and for that price Victoria might
buy a Council which would help along the
cause of reform vigorously and intelligently,
and which would also consent to reform itself,
so that it could never again in, the future be the-
same ghastly stumbling-block it lias been in the
past. The salary would make opposition at the-
polls practically certain, and the M.L.C. would-
have to satisfy his constituents or be thrown-
at*t P resen f there is no opposition, so the
M.L.C. doesn’t need to satisfy anybody. Pay-
ment of members really seems the only kind ofi
Upper House reform that is worth trying,
Private Executions.
Thr evening newspapers of Australia, without'
any exception that The Bulletin knows of,,
enthusiastically advocate the employment of
capital punishment—apparently because execu-
tions take place in tlie morning and add enor-
mously to circulation. Hence it has been more
than once proposed by opponents of such
punishment that the execution, while it remains
a legal penalty, should not only be private in
respect to general spectators, but also in regard
to the press. The gain hoped for from this
change is that evening journals, instead of
championjng the death penalty would, finding


the sensationalism gone, come round to the
opposite view. It is interesting to note that the
latest executions in England have been carried
out in the enforced absence of the newspaper
representatives. Reporters applied at the
Walton gaol for admission to witness the hang-
ing of Elijah Winstanley, the Wigan mur-
derer, but were informed that in accordance
with a new regulation the press was excluded
from such functions. Doctors, officials and
special officers of the Crown alone attended,
and the hoisting of a black flag over the gaol
wall informed the public that the tragedy was
completed. The community should, as a
general thing, stand up for the presence of
the press when public acts are being performed.
It is conceivable, but barely so, that a knot
of officials and professional men might conspire
to break the law or hush up some huge blunder
in the method of hanging if the press were not
present to expose them. But this is remote
enough to be treated as a mere imagination.
Besides, the civilisation which condemned
hanging in the presence of the general public
should logically condemn it in presence of men
whose sole business at the foot of the gallows is
to word-picture to the life the terrible spec-
tacle. The thrilling letterpress of the evening
journals is no more a public service when
spaced about a criminal on the gallows than it
would be if it described the muscular and other
contortions of a patient under the knife of an
hospital surgeon. The journals which accept
without chagrin exclusion from the operating-
rooms of hospitals while serious cases are dealt
with should similarly accept exclusion from
gaol-yards on hanging mornings. I his is a
reform which the Australias should promptly
give effect to. The British individuals who
once delighted to witness public executions go
now to the evening journals on hanging days to
appease their fierce appetites. In the words of
the graphic penman they behold the victim
quaking, kicking, exuding foam and blood and
otherwise evidencing supreme agony, and,
while reading, they feel as happy as their
predecessors did in watching an execution ftom
the street. The alleged civilisation which put
down the one should long ago have put down
the other.
“The Christs of Trade.”
The doctrine of Common Employment arrived
with Queen Victoria in 1837, and is another
blessed proof that “Rule Britannia” was
written by Moses, and must be accepted by all
men. The doctrine, roughly-stated, is that
a servant impliedly takes upon himself the
risks arising from the negligence of a fellow-
servant. The province of Victoria has
an Act which draws some of the teeth
of this ravenous doctrine, but it will expire
with the current session, unless continued by
legislation. Meanwhile, Irvine has introduced
a Bill, for the second time, to put the statutory
obligations of employers on a humane basis.
Last session Irvine’s speech, as reported in
Hansard, gave in vivid colors the brutal
tendencies of the Common Law in interpreting
the rights of employers, and it is to be hoped
that Parliament will this session put the law in
line with sanity and humanity. Randolph
Bedford spoke in certain verses of the “ Christs
of Trade ” whose blood, in too literal fashion,
consecrates buildings, canals, and works gene-
rally. Eleven men died to make a Yankee
assurance palace in Collins-street. Statistics
show how many deaths there are to a mile in
railway-making. Who pays for the death of a
workman? As a rule, the inevitable widow lias
no case at law, and no money to bring it to trial
if it existed. The contractor, possibly a good
fellow enough, sends along a five-pound note —
the fellow-workmen subscribe a few shillings.
Then it is all forgotten. After all, one widow
more or less is a mere detail in the blue-books
of the country—and if there are young child-
ren, the Lord will provide. Is the Irvine
remedy sufficient ? Would it not simplify
matters to make the employer responsible for
every death or injury by accident on
his works unless clearly d <e to the
personal negligence of the victim fixing
a lump - sum payable in all cases ? The
risk would be insurable, and would simply
make a small (and just) addition to the capital
cost of the work. The destruction of life that
occurs with painful regularity on big contracts
should be reckoned as part of the cost of the
undertaking.
—4
The V ic. Full Court in the case of Morrison
v. N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., has
just affirmed the decision of Judge Hodges on
a point of much constitutional importance. An
attempt was made in this case to foist the Im-
perial legislation with reference to winding-up
on to the self-governing provinces without their
consent. The argument was based on the fact
that the Imperial Parliament had had the im-
pudence to expressly apply similar bankruptcy
provisions to the provinces and on the similarity
between winding-up and bankruptcy. But, as
Judge Holroyd pointed out, “ this reasoning,
though specious, was quite fallacious.” “ The
court was asked to say that the . section in the
English act imposed a new law on the colonies
in derogation of the legislative powers pos-
sessed by the colonies which enjoyed self-
government.” This statement puts the
numerous acts of impertinence of the British
Parliament in extending statutes on all kinds of
subjects to the “self-governing” provinces with-
out even saying “ by your leave,” into glaring
relief. When will the due resentment be felt
by the provinces, and the abuse accordingly
promptly stopped ?
»
Switzerland should make a profitable object-
lesson to many who exaggerate the difficulties
of compensating expropriated publicans—if,
as a matter of expediency (not of justice)
publicans should be compensated at all. When
that country determined to make a State mono-
poly of the” sale and manufacture of spirits it
found 1400 private distilleries i in operation
Within its boundaries. A few of these it
retained as-the nucleus of the State establish-
ment, and the rest it compulsorily abolished.
Over'l.SOO were summarily closed, but in every
case under a scheme of compensation which
neither the State nor the expropriated indivi-
duals find fault with. The total cash the State
undertook to pay amounted to <£236,000,
spreading the instalments over a period of ten
years. The last instalment will be due in 1898,
and from that day forward Switzerland will
have a clean sheet. The per contra side is
quite as interesting and instructive. Beginning
with a comparatively small annual profit, the
State, during the last three or four years, has
cleared over <£200,000 per annum per medium
of its spirit monopoly.
The law reform scheme, introduced the other
day by S. A. Government, promises, if it doesn’t
come to grief in the graveyard of the Upper
House, to be about the best and most business-
like thing of its kind Australia has yet seen.
It provides that solicitors and barristers shall
not be required to know any dead and putrefied
languages or have any university degree ; their
qualifications are to be simply two years’ office
experience and ability to pass an examination
in law. The law is to be open equally to
either sex. Barristers can sue for their fees if
irecessary, and barristers and solicitors can be
sued for damages for negligence if they fail to
attend to a case which they have undertaken.
No appeal is to be allowed in cases where less
than <£loo is involved unless they involve
some other question of right besides the money
at stake. No case shall be re-heard on the
mere ground that evidence was improperly
admitted, unless the evidence so admitted had
a direct bearing on the case. No case is
to be removed from the Lower Courts to the
more expensive Supreme Court except by con-
sent of both parties, and even then the party
applying for the removal bears the extra cost.
The Courts are instructed to decide on the
merits of the case without regard to “ techni-
calities or questions of form, practice or pro-
cedure.” The mode of appeal is simplified, and
in cerlain cases, notably probate cases, lawyers
are not allowed to appear. When two persons
have a legal matter in dispute, instead of start-
ing a lawsuit they may write out, and both sign,
a statement of the case, and the matter shall be
decided without appeal by the local Court for a
charge of £l, or by the Supreme Court for <£3—
the parties may choose whichever Court they
please. These are the more important provi-
sions, and they all seem to tend towards making
the law a little more simple and a good deal
less expensive than it is at present.
YiO. Leg. Assembly passed a good Bill last week
to amend the Local Government Act so that
non-payment of rates shall not disfranchise the
constituents of a municipal council. The argu-
ment used against the measure by Brother
Madden was that it extended
the fashionable doctrine that those who contributed
nothing- to the taxation should have the largest share of
representation.
But this objection would only be cogent if for-
feiture of the vote under present conditions
nullified the responsibility to taxation. In the
great multitude of instances where disfranchise-
ment takes place under the present law the
default does not lie with the person who loses
his vote, but with some member of the landlord-
class who has contracted to pay the rates, and
has been permitted to evade the duty for a
time by the carelessness or indifference of the
municipal officers. In any case, the munici-
pality has a continual lien on property in arrears
for rates, and the disfranchisement of the occu-
pier is a punishment altogether out of propor-
tion to the offence.
—
“ The jury returned a verdict of not guilty, and
accused was discharged, after having been in
gaol for ten weeks.” Accused was a friendless
N.S.W. servant-girl, and the accusation was a
woefully weak story of money lost and found
again. No sane policeman would have dared
to arrest a female with influence at her back,
or probably any male with his wits about him,
on the so-called evidence adduced. The Law
for the Rich shrugged its shoulders and waited
while the girl was in gaol, without even a chance
to hear what evidence might be being fossicked
out or manufactured against her. The fact
that “ the Crown,” with all its police machinery
and malignant system of trying by hook or by
crook to “prove its case,” couldn’t allege any-
thing at all to the satisfaction of a jury, against
an undefended girl, without means or wit-
nesses, conveys a whole drama of significance.
In the first place, no magistrate should have
committed this girl for trial —for ten weeks in
gaol! In the second place, a committing
magistrate should have the power to liberate
accused poor persons on their own recognisances.
If they are too poor to command bail, they are
too poor to bolt from the law, for they have no
feathers to fly with; and, in any case, they
could be required to report themselves once a
week to the local police, if such a severity were
deemed necessary. Even if one wretch out of a
dozen or so did get away the country could
stand it, and the law wouldn’t, be hurt so badly
in its reputation as it is by the fact that it im-
prisoned an innocent girl for ten weeks, and
possibly made her—what ?
Dear Bulletin, —A word or two about the
Deceased Wife’s Sister’s Bill, which has at last
become law in England. There were, and still
are, some good grounds for the opposition it
met with for years. Man and woman are by
marriage made one. The Churches say so, and
the physiologists admit that, after some years
of cohabitation, a certain approach to unity in
duality is established between husband and
wife —the latter, however, as is natural, being
the larger shareholder in the unity, or, in other
words, the woman absorbs more of the nature
of the man than the man does that of the
woman. Therefore, marriage between a man
and the sister of his dead wife would seem to
be something not unlike a new and original
species of diluted incest. Then suppose that
there were children by the first wife, and chil-
dren' by her sister afterwards, what relations
would they bear to each other ? They would be
more than half-brothers and sisters—say, three-
quarter brothers and sisters. Genealogy is a
sufficiently difficult science as it is without this
new complication being dragged into it. These
latter are but small objections, however. A
stronger than any lies in the fact that the new
law is likely to play the devil with a good many
happy homes. A wife who has a pretty sister
living with her, will, in future, be liable to look
with a jealous eye on any little passages of
family affection—any otherwise natural kisses
of good-bye or welcome —exchanged between
her husband and that sister. She will suspect
that the latter is waiting to step into her shoes
when she dies, and is paving the way in good
time. And then there will be trouble. This
state of affairs will, however, be productive of
one advantage to unmarried girls with married
sisters. The latter will work harder than half-
a-dozen match-making mothers to provide the
former with husbands of their own. lam
thinking there will be some new and picturesque
material for the dramatist after the Deceased
Wife’s Sister’s Act has been working for a year
or two. And now, in conclusion. Women are
demanding, and rapidly acquiring, all the rights
and privileges of men. The next thing we
shall hear is that they aie clamoring for a
Deceased Husband’s Brother’s Act. Why not ?
What is sauce for the gander is sauce for the
goose. What does the goose say ? — CreEVE
Roe. [Query: Why haven’t these dreadful
things happened already in countries like Aus-
tralia, where the D.W.S. Act has been tried ?
And if the average wife finds her average hfls-
band kissing her pretty sister too extensively,
would she wait to hunt up the Statute Book
and discover if the D.W.S. Act was in force
before throwing something, or would she throw
it on the spot? —Ed. B.]
“ Stumpjumper” to The Bulletin :
Deal’ Bulletin, —It is not the N.S.W. “special-areas”
holders alone who clamor for re-appraisement of their
hard bargains ; and, as a matter of fact, they have not as
good a case to present as the ordinary selectors of C.P.
and C.L. The “ special-area” victims did take up then-
holdings “ with their eyes open,” as the opponents of re-
appraisement are so fond of reminding them, but the
ordinary conditional purchaser has to “go it blind” on
three-fourths of his area, as the rent of the lease is not
stated until he has bound himself to accept the land or
forfeit his deposit. This disposes of the fatuous argu-
ment “ they knew what they had to pay ” of the city
land-expert whenever the question of all-round re-
appraisement crops up. In your par. on the subject,
Aug. 22, you write:—“The clamor of the agitators is
tolerably comprehensive: (1) District surveyors, who
make valuations, are not experts in valuing; (2) land
boards decline to receive expert evidence as to values ;
(3) the expert evidence that is received is unreliable. Yet
it only means, on behalf of the proposed beneficiaries :
Holders don’t want to pay anything more than they can
help, and don’t want to pay that much until they are
forced to do so. But they hold on to the land and din
noises into the eai-s of local members.” To No. 1, 2 and 3
any settler would reply, “ True enough.” That we don’t
want to pay any more than we can help applies equally to
holders of*even shares in a newspaper—postage, for in-
stance—but that we successfully hold on to the land is
emphatically denied by the ever-increasing number of
small holdings transferred to the banks. But what a
subject it is ! A whole issue of Tim Bulletin would
barely suffice to do it justice from the settlers’ point of
view, and it is easier for George Reid to crawl through
the eye of a needle than for the man on the land to get a
fair chance of explaining why he doesn’t stay there.
Here’s a point that throws a little light on the subject of
re-appraisement. A number of small holders, when mak-
ing up their “landaninkum” papers, put down the value
of their conditionally-purchased land at £1 per acre sim-
ply because the Government valued it at that price, and
as the amount paid up was too small to bring them over
the exemption they didn’t trouble to dispute it. By and
bye, when they have paid a few more instalments of the
purchase-money and are liable for land-tax, there will be
trouble. In the meantime, the valuers appointed by the
department to value every holding, however small, are in
a dilemma. For instance, one of them, trying to do his
work fairly, remarked to me : “ I expect I’ll get into trou-
ble over this job. Some of the cookies in this district
have put their stony ridges down at £1 an acre in then-
returns, and honestly the land isn’t worth more than 55,”
I fancy if the Minister compares that valuer’s report with
the owners’ returns he, too, will think “ the expert evi-
dence received is unreliable.”
After all, Mr. Greene, the Inglewood (Vic.)
coroner, did good service, the other day, when
he ordered that hard-up septuagenarian suicide
to be buried by night. For he has succeeded,
as he could have effectually donq in no other
way, in directing attention to the fact that not
in Victoria alone but in N.S.W. also every
coroner is pretty well a law unto himself. The
principal Act seems to belong to the reign of
Edward 1., and for the rest the delightfully
uncertain common law is relied upon. In
N.S.W. there have been almost countless cir-
culars to coroners suggesting what different
Attorneys-General and Under-Secretaries have
regarded as the proper courses ; but in several
cases these circulars come into conflict.
Wherefore the coroner exercises that wide
discretion which he is continually told he
possesses, and does as he darned well pleases.
But as he is apt to do some absurd things it is
time to ask why he should have all this discre-
tion. Way back, being the direct representa-
tive of the Crown, charged with inquiring into
sudden or mysterious deaths, he was naturally
given the Crown’s freedom ; but now, as his re-
lations with the Crown are somewhat less
intimate, and as the functions are fairly circum-
scribed, there seems no good reason why the
law shouldn’t step in and save the coroner from
making a greater ass of himself than need be.
Last week at Sydney Quarter Sessions several
Chinamen were together indicted before Judge
Docker for running a lottery. Some of them
pleaded guilty and were fined in various sums
hot exceeding Jl5. The others, however,
defended the case. During the conduct of the
trial their counsel raised certain points of law
which the Judge over-ruled; on a verdict of
guilty, these points were reserved for the Full
Court. This practice, it is hardly necessary to
say, is an absolute right conferred on accused
people by the Legislature, a right which should
be jealously guarded, seeing that the only
appeal open, in criminal cases, is one on a
point of law’. Many cases will suggest them-
selves in w'hich the' Appeal Court has stood
between a careless Judge and his victims.
According to the newspaper version of the
case, Judge Docker holds strange views con-
cerning appeals and the rights of prisoners.
When he sentenced the Chinamen, he is re-
ported to have carefully explained that, “ since
they were going to appeal, he would impose
a sentence of three months’ imprisonment.”
Three months for blasphemously daring to
question the ruling of Judge Docker !
Judge Docker, it would really seem, takes
it as a personal insult that a citizen, even
when his liberty depends on it, should not
be satisfied with the Judge’s opinion on a
matter of law ! The only real way of avoiding
these judicial eccentricities is to allow the jury,
who find a man guilty, to say how guilty he is,
and to fix his punishment within statutory
limits.
Answers to Correspondents ,
No notice ivill be talcen of convmunii&liOns insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case ivill MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
A.A.W : This paper isn’t in business as a gftig-
fakir Cyril Gray : Bulletin, of all papers, couldn’t
afford to print it Robin Studholme : Address, please?
Trinidad : A moss-grown wheeze laboriously re-
hashed J.D.D. : Yet one of the Deeds that Won tile
Empire was forcing opium down the Chinese throat, at
the point of the Christian bayonet C.W.T. : Honi soit,
&c O’B.: Nobody takes Knapp seriously. He is drily
an unconscious joke in spectacles Pi. : Volunteer
Colonels are regularly members of the British Commons,
and may discuss freely all subjects save the conduct of
the military authorities. They retire when the Military
Estimates come on Alonzo : But “ national guard.” is
a Republican phrase—French, American, not English.
The Australian Republic comes along all the whi1e......
A.B.Del. : The paper evidently knows nothing of the
Commissioner in question, lie may use “other men's
brains and dther men’s ideas,” but he has plenty of brains
and ideas of his own—is a most able man who in the open
market would easily command his present salary... .. .Quid-
nunc : Men will gamble, just as they will love arid drink..
Tim Bulletin would prefer the State to pocket the con-
sultation commissions; but, as the State won’t, it is good
that the community have Tattersall Adams to deal with;.
G.M‘D. : All no doubt true, but they don’t read like pro-
bable yarns ..R.A.B. (Adelaide): Please send full address.
Doeg : (1) George Moore once said that Stead was the sort
of chap who would sidle up to a married woman oh a Sdfa;
put his arm around her waist, and implore her to lie
faithful to her husband. (2) You don’t get any spirit ihtti
trans. or tale Cic. : Stale images re-dished unattrac-
tively Ngatuere ; Interest faded J:A.B.; Fire-pobdl
received. Why insult a hard-working element?... ...Welta .
May use T.C. (Richmond): Not up Alexis: You
don’t help along the discourse much Chai: Lovers are
an unoriginal lot L.R.M. : Subject isn’t enticing, and
it hasn’t much force anyway. Even unconventionality is
getting very conventional nowadays E.F.S. : Merely
paraphrases the infinitely brighter “Keep a-Goin’.”
Memo : Don’t write long poems unless you’re a bit of a
genius. Any ordinary poet can exhaust his afflatus in 24
lines S.C.': If you have a story to tell, tell it: don’t
waste space in introduction White-Eye: Thanks
C.A.N. : (1) In 1872. (2) In Sydney horse-drivers are now
working for contractors 10 hours daily for 4s. 2d. per
diem Tales :No absolute generalisation, but so far as
The Bulletin has observed in Australia, female poisoners
and such are mostly blondes and small of stature T.M.
(Corinne) : Not of much account Donald M. : You
haven’t subscribed to Tiie Bulletin for 19 years, for it
hasn’t been in existence so long. This shakes our faith
in your veracity so badly that we can’t even rely on your
name being Donald. You may be Dugald in disguise......
S.P.L. : Family Herald gush-yarn of the daffodil descrip-
tion Quambi : Why shouldn’t a decent publican be a
volunteer officer ? Is hotel-keeping essentially disgrace-
ful? Kohi: “ And why the Tasmanian predilection for
wooden, sulphur matches?” Probably because they are
slow matches and the Tassieshave lots of time....:.X.Y.Z. ':
Better see Dr. Mullen Raising the Embargo: Objec-
tionable. yarn about immoral old Hebrew whose son
wanted to marry his sister 11.G.G. (Sydney) : Yarn
chiefly swearing and spitting Cosmop : Received...,.-.
C.A.F. (D.D.): A melodious little description. Will print;
later on H.R.E. : Tank story a grizzled veteran.
A. Critman : Bourke —why that’s the place where the
matrons thanked the municipal council for keeping their
husbands at home o’ nights by not repairing the streets.
It takes women to represent women A.O.P. :We heard
Mr. Harry Foran speak once in public. We don’t want, to
hear him any more, and would gladly subscribe to buy a
muzzle for the gentleman The Deacon :To hand. It
would hurt feelings of dead man’s relatives F.A.K. :
Sorry can’t use Nita :To hand Aronret: Too siig-'
gestive. What did he lay? Nowra : Amusing but
dirty, and if it was washed there would be no joke left,
.J.H. (Melb.) : Thanks... Broken Hill : (1) Every city
hasn’t got a statue of Burns. Almost every city, though >
has a statue of “Albert the Good,” which is worse) (2)
How did Pym, Hampden, Shakespeare, Milton, orNewtoh
“ make the empire ? ” What did they add to the empire 1
(3) “Why do Scotties blow so much”? Well, where do
they come in compared to the dreadful Bull, who talks
persistently about the “English” flag, army, navy,
empire, etc., and calls all the U.K. “England.” Hasn’t
the Caledonian some right to blow? England did very
little till the Union, except lose foreign provinces (ac-
quired in the first place by royal marriages). (4) •“ Why
do Australians blow so much ? ” Because they are mostly
descendants of 8u11.......8. Arquebuss (or something):
Your wild and splashy-looking letter received:—“ 19 p.m.
as Ham select ball held at Five Dock (or else ‘awful shriek
heard at five o’clock’) of Arch jam pull small men is some
psalms and more than that as to the Queen or Belle of the
fixing I snake my life (or else ‘ I shake my wife ’) prop a
common dagger casual plum pie try Walker you bet takes
the johnny cake, Bare full (or else ‘ yours truly ’) Joins
Boil (or something like' that).” Please communicate
further with this office and explain your views on the
above subject H.P.C. (M.L.) : Not yet. Thanks:...’..
Yarraman : Some error in the T.I. yarn. Who’s' the
dude ? Tan. ! Bit too like the recent hospital cricket-
score yarn Upsilon : Probably M.H. (T.) : Sorry
you can’t tell it better A. Ma : Has it ever struck you
it might be as well to' see slums before writing about
them?......5.: “Shanghai-ing”declined Sluggard: Par. :
value only Helix: Pretty unoriginal, and the scrawl
is simple Sheol P.A.R.: Ideas not well enough put..io
Che Sara: Not up F.B. : “Peace” seems rather
vague; wants tightening and clinching......Boko: The
curse of a blighted inkslinger rests upon you C.P.:
(Pill.): Letter posted C.P S.G. : “Woman” mechanb
cal J.D.N. :Do you only write a poem once in 10
years? Kelt: Not quite enough novelty for print 1 .
And John Boyle O’Reilly though he wrote poetic, in-
spiring verses (do you know his “Heights”?) was not
essentially, exclusively a poet W.G.B. : Interest; not
for B Zobo : No ; the telling isn’t up Cosmo-
politan : Too mixed : your mind wants purging
F. : Dull Rollo : The old theme gilded with the
old epithets in the old way G.M. (Wellington):
You hardly know the alphabet of story-telling. At
least wait till you’re in words of one syllable.'.....
Turn (Was.) : Well, it’s an old stager, and all would de-
pend on the drawing L.E.R. (N.S.) :Do you guarantee
originality? E. A. Grant (Brewarrina): You don’t
necessarily “ know a few of The Bulletin’s contributors.”
You probably only know a few people who say they con-
tribute...'...O.R)B. : Hardly suff. int “July Fog” : It
isn’t up to—Lawson, say Penleigh : Good.. : ...R. :
You don’t get enough novelty or strength into the old
images; and see note J.H.B. : Jig-jog verses; and
Pegasus has a stone in every hoof Kookaburra : There
seems to be more relevancy about your old name
Kurilla : What are “languid kine?” Do you mean the
thirsty blanky bullocks? F.J.C. :As told, it’s tedious.
G.W.H. : Not up for space. But we admire your kind-
of-onomatopceic idea—“first verse big, with long lines,
describing fat man ; second short, with short lines, for
thin man, &c.” P.C. : (1) Dyson’s book of verse is due
this month. (2) No. . (3) Dunno where Val Vousden are.
Didn’t he die in England, long ago? Vero : Jacob Gar-
rard isn’t a rake, anyway. At least, not as far as The
Bulletin knows Feather : Bedford, like any other man
of sense, simply isn’t going to speak ill of the bridge which
carries him over. He seems to have more-or-less joined the
great army of Westralian spiders ; and whenever did you
hear a spider telling a fly to come into its nasty little
parlor? Phyllis : Too conventional. You take the
view of 99 people in a hundred. We want the other view.
Sandy Mac. : Neither of you seem to be worth much.
Add yourself to Donald and Dugald, and try collaboration.
J.M.W. : Worth about half space H.F.H. : No
particular interest Barley : Raw poem ; why not boil
’em for a week? Walk : Poem reminds us of the good-
bad little boy who habitually fell from grace and stole the
jam; and regularly spanked himself with his mother’s
slipper afterwards.' But this paper has always fancied
that he didn’t spank quite as hard as he jammed,.,s...
G. : Gerald Massey has done it better before :
“And sometimes one and one make three—
Our World’s most perfect Trinity.”
Australian : “ Of all cants that are canted the cant of
religion is worst and most soul-destroying.”.....,J.E.
(Menzies) : The Westralian creed has only three articles :
1. White woman. 2. Jap woman. 3. Gin. But the order
varies with circumstances S.M.S.M.F. (O Lord !).: This
is the sort of stuff you want “ encouragement for” :
The plovers too : they also help
In that lonely, weird, wild wail,
Assisted by the wild dog’s yelp
As he prowls o’er hill and vale.
Shoo ! ...Rata (M.L.): Sunday-school yarns—either Wes-
leyan or Baptist. Can’t place ’em exactly, being out of
pious practice.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31,
ASSETS
SURPLUS
1895.
£41,876,956
8,442,502
t!?WorH T ' ES ° n ' S ™ T “ t “ dard ° f Vah “ tio " LfIRGER «-» that of
the r^'ng'i^BSS 1 !" “ 1896 Shw
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims)-
WILLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairmani • THO¥A«
Ho„. HENRY MORT. Hea. CH^k”WcKELLAR^E^VISi. ‘
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
' D ALLY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
«
n
Old Dominion
Cigarettes.!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ The Nominee.”
Criterion << a Mother of Three.”
,K0TAI ' “The Prodigal Dangh-
_ ter.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ a Trip to Chinatown.”
Royal. “ Called Back.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
School for Scandal ” did a three-night
season at Sydney Lyceum, and the go and energy
ot the grand old comedy were a relief after the
slow, gradual wretchedness of “ Camille. ” Bellew
made a brilliant Charles Surface ; this paper looks
back down the long vista of the years and decides
upon its oath, taken before a sober J.P., that
Bellew is the best C. Surface of its recollection.
LLis over-floured visage and painted lips make
him look more or less unhealthy at all times, and
his Surface was a rather spectral visitant, but
beyond that there were no complaints to make.
1 he Lady .teazle of Mrs. Potter was also too much
noured and painted, and the paint was mostly worn
as a flush about the eyes ? and a lady with a pink
tore head and a pallid chin is never a great success.
Also, she successfully wrecked' practically every
eature of the part by her elocution, and made
Lady JLeazle a gaudy ruin from almost every
Vlew -. In fact, there was hardly an un-
kind thing which could have been done" to Lady
Teazle that Mrs Potter did not do. She was
practically the only failure, however. Scot Inglis’s
Joseph was not his best work, but it was very good
none the less ; Wilson Forbes and Cathcart were
two excellent old men; and the rest of the co.
spread itself for a great effort, and the result was
gratifying. Miss Linda Raymond in particular
deserved to have some kind remarks made about
her, and they are hereby made accordingly.
Charlotte Corday ” did a one-night season
on Saturday, after a patient audience had waited
for the late Mrs. Potter till nearly 8.15, and the
production was splendidly mounted and well
played by everybody except the heroine. Mrs.
potter didn t once rise to the tragic intensity of
the character—her eyes rose, and her right hand
and sometimes her hair, but the lady herself didn’t.
When she read the thrilling story of how Judith
struck IMofernes she made the Jewish maiden
land the oppressor with all her mite—she didn’t
hit him with anything larger in the Potter version.
Also her irritating accent was more aggravating
even than usual; when she rushed at Marat and
called him assossm,” the general feeling for a
moment was that she had called him “sausage.”
As usual, she wriggled in wholly unnatural
positions all through, and rolled her eyes
unspeakably, and extended her hands hori-
zontally with the fingers outspread fan-
tashion, and talked with an agonisingly slow
drip of conversation, and, in short, she failed in a
wholly original plan of her own. Mrs. Potter’s
failures are not at all commonplace; they are
quaint, weird, bizarre, suggestive of the yellow
decadent school of art, and arouse ideas of an
impressionist picture that has tried to do some-
thing without success. “ Charlotte Corday ” is
the sort of play that Mrs. Potter delights in. The
first two acts are mostly devoted to the gradual
soubupheaval of Charlotte; the last one is a
wholly superfluous affair in which she strikes
attitudes and is an afflicted saint in the limelight
Marat supplies the life and color of the whole
affair. Charlotte is mainly a pale, honorable
speotre against a background of tragedy.
Bellew s Marat was a fine conception.
Probably Marat never received justice from his-
tory, but Bellew s Dictator, with his moist, husky
voice, like the voice of one with a dish-cloth in his
throat, and the catarrhal snuffle of his long, red
sad, damp nose, and his diseased countenance
and his crab-like gait satisfied the popular eoncep-
tion to a nicety. Moreover, he had a blood-curdling
laugh that made the hair stand on end. and a
wild-beast snarl of unparalleled malignity. The
fact that Bellew s Marat took his bath with his
clothes on was, perhaps, an unavoidable anachron-
ism. And the fact that Marat has been reviled
through 100 years for his dirt among other things
and yet died washing himself to the bitter end is
another anachronism. Scot Inglis’s David, Mont-
gomerys Adam Lux, and the two old men repre-
sented by Forbes and Cathcart, were all admir-
able, a,nd Misses Ida Hamilton and Polly Emery
tilled in two small parts in the background well
enough for all purposes. To-night (Thursday) the
co. breaks out into the “ Lady of Lyons.” It
tnes Camille ” again on Friday, and on Satur-
day in at Goodwin is due with “ The Nominee.”
* * * *
B. Holt made a wise choice of the “ Prodi-
gal Daughter” for the beginning of his new
season at Sydney Royal. There are great splashes
of color m this drama, and much electric-light and
nrst-class carpet, and it is full of innumerable
horse, and, above all, there is no dull spot in it
from beginning to end. But the odor of horse
which pervades it throughout is the keynote of the
production. Even in the dining-room scene of
Act 1. the irrelevant horse puts his head in at the
Window to show that he is giving his moral sup-
port to the afflicted father, and Acts III. and IV.
are practically all horse. When the pervading
animal is not actually present in the cats-meat,
Bland Holt is sitting on a bucket and thinking of
him, or else Miserable Jim is being bribed to nobble
him. Miss Elizabeth Watson does her part
as the girl who went wrong more brightly than
usual, and Miss Frances Ross does hers as well as
usual, and, barring one astounding hat, she is a
feature in the landscape. Mr. and
Mrs. Bland, Baker, Charles Brown, and Norman
Harford (as the two baleful persons dressed in
the top-hat of iniquity and long black coat of
guile, who plot against the horse) all hold up the
vast superstructure of the show in a capable
manner. On Monday night the Grand National
put up a record in stage-steeplechasing,; the race-
course was kicked to shivers in a fine realistic
tashion, and the air was full of broken hurdle and
tom vocabulary, and turf and wrecked fence, and
capsized jockey and horse standing on his ear,
and when Baker furiously drove “the Jook ” to
victory over the ruins, and manager Chris.
Simonsen madly urged his pallid steed
through everything and got a place, the
general impression was that it was a fine large
race, and the audience would be glad to see
another just like it. If the race-scene could be
put on like that or made even a little madder
every night, and Chris. Siinonsen’s pale horse
could be guaranteed to come pounding round the
corner regularly, kicking great hunks off the uni-
verse, and the Jook could be relied on to arrive
the racecourse in his mouth, the
Prodigal Daughter ” should be good for a three
months run. Business is rather prosperous at the
-tvoyal, so far, and the black-hatted betrayer will
climb surreptitiously in at the window and poison
his own horse by mistake till further notice.
** * *
Mr. Hodson : s season at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) closes at the end of this week, the last
four nights being filled in with “Under the Gas-
light,' which arrives too late for notice. The new
drama is also “ by arrangement with ” Billolloway,
whoseghost haunts the place to the very last.
Mr. Hodson has staged his dramas well, and
has always got the curtain up in time, and got it
up straight— not sideways like most new managers ;
and under his supervision the big steam-hammer
and the mill-wheel and the tank have gone with-
out a hitch ; and but for the fact that his star,
Charles Holloway, couldn’t look in the least like a
K lng UiL e ’ and wore a child’s hat which
fcbat f° rrn ’dable character into contempt
the short season should have been a much bigger
success than it was. 8
** * *
The ever-welcome Brough opens Sydney
Criterion on Saturday with Miss Clo. Graves’
comedy A Mother of Three.” Three other new
comedies-” The Late Mr. Costello,” “Mrs.
Othello, and “Mrs. Ponderbury’s Past ” —are on
hand, so the season will be a succession of novel-
ties. Miss Winifred Austin, a well-known Syd-
ney amateur, joins the co., and makes her first
professional appearance on Saturday, and Miss
. y J itheradge, daughter of the beloved “Tith ”
is also m the cast.
** * #
The Frantz Family is doing a very brief
re-appearance at the Tivoli, and the Durhams,
still another of Rickards’ importations, have
joined the co. The Sydney Music Hall also sur-
vives up to date.
** * *
The kinetomatograph, which is the kine-
toscope writ large, was on private exhibition at
AimG 6 ? , one n, & ht last week under Joseph
M Mahon s management. The difference between
the new thing with the long name and the old
thing with the name that isn’t much shorter is
that the latter shows the dog-fight in miniature
through a glass, while the former reflects it full
size on a sheet, so that you see the whole disturb-
ance just as it really was. If it is a really cordial
and enthusiastic dog-fight the effect is very gratify-
ing ; in fact, it is almost as good as the real thing,
barring the yapping, and as you can have the same
nght as often as you like without wearing out the
dogs, it makes the pleasure go further. The new
invention is to be on public exhibition shortly.
** * *
The charming Miss Ida Hamilton, of the
Potter-Bellew co., and Scot Inglis are to be
married to-day (Thursday) at Sydney, and, con-
sidering the popularity of both parties, it should
be the biggest theatrical event since the Essie
Jenyns marriage of several years ago. Miss
Hamilton is much like Mrs. Potter, and would
ItuLf Pnze , ln a , beaut y competition almost
nywhere; also, she is an actress of much
promise. Her future husband is distinctly
the cleverest young Australian actor on the
stage, and has risen in the last three years from
1 practically the top of the local
tree—or the local shrub, in case there is any dis-
pute as to the exact nature of the vegetable.
After comparison with some imported mummers of
repute, The Bulletin reckons him capable of even
better things than he has yet accomplished. It
event con^ra^u a * ies both parties to Thursday’s
** * *
Great preparations are being made in Syd-
ney to give Kowalski a fitting send off. His
pupils, headed by Miss Beatrice Griffiths, are
workmg assiduously and intend to play Kowalski’s
Marche Hongroise ” in company. The pro-
minent artists of Sydney have taken the matter
up, and a bumper attendance is expected. It is
now known that Kowalski will not return to Aus-
tralia. Weighted with years, and discouraged by
the apathy of Australian audiences, he will pass
the evening of his life in his beloved Prance.
** * *
There were good points about the Melb.
sassiety show of “ The Parvenu,” in addition to
the _ solid fact that Lady Clarke conferred the
receipts upon a hospital. The British warrior
who undertook the name part was half a yard
taller th a n tn e traditional stage vulgarian, but be
put honest feeling into his “damme!” and got
througn very well Two of the ladies could act
considerably, whilst another, Miss Mary Clarke
made a sweet picture in an irresistible frock and
hat especially when she climbed a tree and pre-
tended to feel bashful because she wasn’t showing
any leg. Even Shaftesbury, the earl, might have
been worse, inasmuch as he played his noble self
with some assumption of ease. Perhaps a less
natural imitation of another fellow would have
given more satisfaction to people not in sassiety,
but the bulk of the audience being either in sas-
siety, or hoping to get there, didn’t want its
Shaftesbury to dissemble. Therefore, when the
earl said “ haw ! ” in his own particular Guv’ment
House mannah, the performance was generally
considered a wonderful success. Gov. Brassey
helped to make it seem like a professional enter-
tainment by arriving late as usual. His Ex. is
incurable. He will be behind time on the Day of
J udgment.
** # *
The aroma of faded notoriety that clings
to “ Called Back ” drew a great crowd to Mel-
bourne Royal on Saturday night. When George
Rignold first staged this unusual story at the
Opera House, 11 years ago, Hugh Conway’s novel
was the “Trilby” of the period. The girl who
dropped her memory in a moment of horror may
be said to have bequeathed her mantle to the
weak-minded model who just now travels around
on bare feet. Paolo Macari was her Svengali. To
the rising generation, knowing little more of
Pauline and Paolo than the echo of their names,
Called Back ’ is submitted on its merits, and
portions of, the dialogue fall so heavily on the
gallery-boy s spirits that he would scorn the play
but for sundry thrilling incidents, the first
of which has been copied pretty closely
(without acknowledgment) in the prologue
“°r< vPj 6 J >o,n * STrian - ” The prologue murder in
Called Back ” happens right under the noses of
two virtuous characters who can’t afterwards tes-
tify to what occurred. The heroine, after wit-
nessing the gory deed, forgets all about it, whereas
her sweetheart retains full consciousness of having
been present at a criminal performance which he
couldn t see. For the next two years or so the
young man, having recovered his sight, gazes
sadly at the dear girl whose memory fled, and the
girl walks in and out of the room iri an Ophelian-
Inlby dream, wondering what is, was, and ever
can be the matter. A lot of other sore affliction is
compressed into the drama. The girl’s maternal
uncle, Dr. Cenari, terminates an absurd career
Of plotting against oppression—he’s not at all par-
ticular as to which oppression he plots against—
by dying outside a Siberian dungeon, surrounded
by cold snow and icicles. A sniffing landlady is
introduced solely for the purpose of mentioning
that square gin is the only specific for her awful
spasms, and the spy Macari, who has been send-
lng most of his friends to gaol and death, gets
slaughtered at the finish. Macari, contracting
nis legs in death agony, like a newly-decapitated
rooster, .is the moral lesson for the evening. With
the exception of a cheerful young married couple,
who really don’t count, all the people in “Called
-Back are ill-fated civilians, or soldiers and
warders acquainted with deep distress
* * * •
Macari has changed considerably since
George Rignold created him for Australia. At
first he was a lurid, flash sort of dissembler, with
a Princess May fringe and an Italian-opera scowl.
-Nowadays the spy is a somewhat unctuous machia-
vellian person, very suggestive of the Rignoldian
devil in I< aust. He has ceased to act the lady-
iailer, yet he isn’t such a suspicious-looking char-
acter as before. The first performance was the
more picturesque, but the present effort, although
Vt S - S ga * ]d -Y> is more naturally cynical and artistic.
Miss Emily Hughes makes a quite satisfactory
-rauiine, for, if her mannerism of speech is a
drawback in some places, it is rather an advantage
in others, and she has a rich, mellow voice and an
earnest, pleasant method. Harry Plimmer plays
the long, colorless part of Gilbert Vaughan ex-
ceedingly well, and Frank Hawthorne is just as
convincing m the fleeting capacity of the young
truculent nephew who comes on to be stabbed,
oterlmg Whites idea of Dr. Ceneri is a poor,
feeble conspirator. Miss Watts Phillips, Hans
Phillips, and others fill their places, and the show
is put upon the stage as though it meant business.
A Trip to Chinatown ” promises thusfar
to repeat its Sydney and Adelaide triumphs at
Melbourne Princess’s. A large proportion of the
general public derives much laughter and amuse-
ment from a commonplace musical tale of some
people going to a ball. There isn’t any ball, by the
way, when the nine roysterers get there, nor any
reason why they should give a variety entertain-
ment in the reception-hall of the restaurant
neither is the variety entertainment a very
brilliant substitute for the invisible ball, anyway,
these remarks are made merely out of respect for
the minority of general public which finds very
ftblcfi a “Tm -"I’ a^ d hard] y anything remark-
able in A Trip to Chinatown ” bar the incidental
whistler and the contortionist dancer and the
well-dressed widow s shapely legs. The minority
aforesaid mostly reads The Bulletin, and having
f; dlBCr uninating between two qualities of
light theatncal entertainment, objects to the
nfcT„ fU - assertlv fness of “A Trip to Chinatown.”
m iL ked assertlveness - Por example,
bluff tL ?n he 1 , ,r - ,gramm ? 18 a bit of Yankee
i advancethemeritsof its
dancer, instead of leaving the young lady to prove
herseif without assistance. And when the plump
baritone sings the tamest of orthodox humorous
verses, his friend, the tenor, cries “ Very clever ' ”
Other instances of the show blowing its own
trumpet, so to speak, might be quoted, but the
matter is of no consequence. Nothing is of any
‘‘A PL thl ? woldd > exce Pf money. And
, fco Chinatown appears to be full of it
for I subfcrTp r S. lnStltUti ° nS elsewhere are begging
The cinematograph didn’t leave the Onera
House last Saturday. On the contrary it added
some new pictures to the original sertT d
more successfol than ever Kons qS ““IS
who looks over his sho™d.?wC ffif
Sonie“f’the ta “ led , th °
sixpence two or three times a week, juttr the
** * *
The Melb. vice-royalties turned up a train
T SHall to
pagan performance, including a hvrmtn y
bu t x°r,r sw - ho
Beast” quite put Ladv cLI ,? h W ece , ‘The
the shade. A hundred nvit • Parve l nu in
from the reigning South ck ?- lce selections
and fillet-bo g und g in T 16S) ga - rlanded
huntsmen holding spears over T’ - Wlth the
sight lovely and g liv P eir e nouk to \ a
exhausted Cov Brassov , beep even the
tatc cried oftentTCd‘vS‘o VoIP
!S£S. s
The Wild-Cat Column.
The fact that the Queensland National Bank is
in a bad way seems to be now fully acknowledged. Last
week the Government appointed a committee of three to
investigate and report on its condition, and also as to
whether the Government should assist it, and, if so, how,
w * la *' extent? The committee is to report as to
the bank’s solvency “ assuming that the assets are realised
judiciously and not by forced sales.” There is so much
scope here for putting fancy prices on securities on the
ground that these prices are what they might sell for if
realised “ judiciously,” and saying afterwards that the
utter failure to fetch anything like the alleged values
arose from the fact that they weren’t sold judiciously
that this clause is a distinct intimation that the
Q.N.B. is to be let down very easily. As a further
guarantee that it will be let down easily the committee as
originally created consisted of two shareholders and a
gentleman who manages a concern of which one or more
big Q.N.B. shareholders are alleged to be the bosses—in
other words, the committee of three apparently consisted
of two shareholders and a shareholders’ servant. Also, it
is alleged that one of the three is heavily interested in a
co. which has a big overdraft in the Q.N.8., which over-
draft, of course, would be called up in case of liquidation.
Under all these and other circumstances the committee
was evidently intended to report that the Q.N.B. is quite
solid and only needs the State to take up £2,500,000
worth of shares and ask no questions to make everything
go beautifully. Even the Kanaka Parliament, however,
could not quite stand Nelson’s committee, and the name
of the Auditor-General was added to it so that it wouldn’t
be entirely a shareholders’ affair.
If the present Q. Government could be trusted
to run a bank honestly, or even with only an ordinary
amount of dishonesty, it would certainly be much better
for it to come to the Q.N.B.’s assistance than for thatcon-
<*">*> «*»* an pther panic. To do the thing honestly it
should have a rigid, independent audit—not an audit by
shareholders or their agents—and find out what the
shortage, if there is one, really amounts to. Then it
should make the shareholders pay up the shortage so far
as their paid and callable capital will go, and after that is
+i? n r> l^T^ ou almost certainly be cheaper to take over
the Q.N.B. as a State institution and stand the rest of the
loss than to have a collapse that would shake the province
to its foundations. The State, with any kind of sane
management, would make up the deficit, even if it was a
large one, in course of time out of the profits, and there-
after the institution would be a source of revenue. But
apparently the idea is to decide, after a feeble investiga-
tion, that there is really no loss worth speaking about,
and put a lot of Government money into the concern to
prop it up, and leave the same old crowd who ran the
institution on the rocks in the past to run it in the future.
h xTn°f ds ’J hesl^nsare that >s intended to save
the Q.N.B. for the sake of the Fat Man shareholders who
have been grinding dividends out of it almost up to the
date of the appeal to Parliament, and not (as in the case
of the 8.N.Z.) for the sake of the community.
*** * m
The Maoriland Govt. Insurance Department
presents a healthy-looking report for 1895. The total
lnc ? rn ®, including consideration for annuities, is
£266,032, against £254,204 in ’94. Total income, includ-
es' I , r !i e , reS t. on mvestments, is £386,012 against £369,479
fo . r , if’ 4 - On* of this revenue, £164,006 is saved and
io d , e oo t o 0 J he mu nds ’ raising them to the splendid total of
£2,428,245. The expenses are 19 per cent, of premiums
against 22 per cent, last year, and are only about 13 per
cnm • to * al i ncome - Of the accumulated funds,
£916,000 is in State debentures, and £167,000 in the
debentures of local bodies—securities whose value, unlike
that of the mortgages which form the vast bulk of Aus-
tralian insurance investments, are easily ascertained and
which contain few possibilities of undetected depreciation.
Interest overdue is only £3477, which, on an annual in-
come from this source of £119,000, is a very small propor-
tion, and stamps the M.L. Govt. Dept, as about the best-
manag-ed institution of its kind with about the safest class
of investments m Australasia.
The A.M.P. Society publishes a batch of figures
—with most of the important ones left out—comparing
f^ le State Insurance Department, and the
S.M. Herald reprints them with the statement that the
latter s business is thereby shown to be “ going to the
Since the A.M.P. invites comparison, it is a fair
thing to contrast the two offices in some respects which it
has omitted. The M.L. Government Dept.’s income from
premiums alone increased £7566 over the previous year;
A.M.P. (which is.six times the size, and does business in
seven provinces instead of one) increased £20,000. M.L.
ofSSr, ’ ncome from investments increased
£4700; A.M.P.’s decreased £4200. M.L. Dept.’s renewal
premiums increased £11,000; A.M.P.’s, with nearly six
times the business, increased £12,000 only. M.L. Dept,
lost £35,000 by surrenders; A.M.P., with six times the
business, lost about 12 times as much, £375,000. M.L.
Dept, has £3477 interest in arrear—a most important
matter, as unoollected interest always suggests dubious
securities; A.M.P. has more than eleven times as much.
M.L. Dept, saved and added to its funds £164,000 during
the year ; A.M.P. Society saved £727,000—if it had saved
as large a proportion of its income the amount should
have been over £BOO,OOO. The M.L. Govt. Dept, is bur-
dened with £32,400 worth of foreclosed property (which
is always a possible source of loss); the A.M.P. has
£538,000 worth—nearly 17 times as much. Also, though
the expenses of the M.L. Dept, are heavier—chiefly be-
cause it is a newer and smaller concern—they decreased 3
per cent. last year, while those of the A.M.P. slightly in-
creased. Under all these circumstances, the State De-
partment can afford to compare with the A.M.P.—even
though the latter is the biggest and seems the best of the
private societies of Australasia—and has decidedly the
best of the comparison in many respects. Also it has a
state guarantee behind it, which makes it safer than the
best private institution, and no private office of its own
age can come within gunshot of its record.
* * * *
The Indemnity Fire and Marine Insurance Co.
for the year ended 30th June shows a loss of £1328 com-
pared with a profit of £386 last year and £3581 the year
previous. Last year, having made £386, the Indemnity 00.
spent £lOOO in paying a dividend ; this time the situation
is too painful and the dividend is passed altogether. The
Indemnity is a concern whose otherwise good prospects
are ruined by its expense account. Last year its net
premium income was £10,968, and it blewed £5015 of this
m working* expenses. Therefore, if the losses come any-
where near 60 per cent, of the premiums—which is a
thing that is bound to happen very often—the co. can’t
nearly pay its way out of revenue, let alone pay a div. To
earn a decent dividend losses have to keep down to about
40 per cent., which is too much to hope for. The co. has
£27,946 of investments, and the interest received for the
year was £512, or about £1 17s. per cent, per annum.
This lamentable figure seems to imply that something
like half of the investments are paying no interest at all,


Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98/100 %, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals. ,
Best possible prices, far cheaper than Drug
Houses. 11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
Hy.^larkwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne;
reel-street, Adelaide.
Mining: Irrigation &. Ventilation.
A REVOLUTION.
GALVANISED IRON PIPING.
Onk-Tentii the Weight same size Cast-iron Piping.
COSTS less for Pipes and Carriage than same size Cast-
Iron Piping for carriage alone. Made in Pipes from 12 to
6 in. diameter to stand from 400 to 8001 b. pressure to
square inch. All particulars on application to
£}. Zollner, 443 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING.
QiSM DICK'S
Is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE to
Wm. A.dLam.9 & Compy.,
Oil Mcrcliauts «t Engineers’ Furnishers,
71 Clarence-st,, Syokisy ; 521-523 Collius-st., Mkuiouiunb
and if any inference can be drawn from the outward ap-
pearance of thing's, the Indemnity may have to write off
a lot of lost capital by-and-bye. Last year the interest
vvas £BO3, and not very long ago it was about £l7OO,
which shows a lamentable slump.
* » * *
South Australian Insurance Co. shows a profit
of £5250 for the year, of which only £329 is made out of
the insurance business, the rest being interest on invest-
ments. AlO per cent, dividend absorbs £6260, so the eo.
deliberately and of malice aforethought divides £lOOO
more than it earns. Last year it made £5854, all from in-
terest on investments, the insurance business showing a
loss of £25 ; and paid a 15 per cent, dividend (£9375), or
about £3500 more than its earnings. Unless business im-
proves materially the hunger for huge divs. at any price
will badly shake even this strong concern sooner or later.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria announces that a third 10
per cent, instalment of its reconstructed deposits will be
released on 12th December. The Victoria has now
apparently settled down to release a 10 per cent, instal-
ment (equal to about £500,000) every three months, and
at this rate it should shortly be free of its troubles. The
present release clears off all liabilities up to 1898.
* * * *
A notable feature of the Vic. Companies Bill
is the provision that all companies must file statements
of their position made up to 31st March of each year.
This should break up the “ balancing trick.” When the
banks make up their balance-sheets at different dates the
one that is balancing can borrow- a lot of cash for a day or
two from the one that isn’t, and thus make the propor-
tion of specie to liabilities look very much better. Then
when the lending bank’s turn comes the other concern
can give it a hand if necessary. In this manner £lOO,OOO
of coin can appear in so many balance-sheets that it has
no difficulty in looking like half-a-million if necessary.
* • *
N.S.W. revenue-returns for August show an in-
crease of £36,000 as compared with those for Aug.,’9s.
This one month’s revenue, however, includes the biggest
part (£110,000) of the year’s income-tax. Leaving out the
increase on income-tax, which is a new source of revenue,
and the decrease on Customs which is caused by tariff-
reductions, and dealing only with the sources of revenue
which remain unchanged, the result is an increase of
£2284. School-fees, curiously enough, account for all the
increase. The big decreases are on land-revenue, excise
(from which it would appear that the local beer-industry
isn’t feeling well), posts and telegraphs, and Sydney water
and sewage rates, which the decrease of population has
struck heavily.
* * • •
Maoriland State Loan Department proposes to
increase the amount which may be advanced on & single
security; to make advances on suburban as well as
country lands ; and to make fixed loans (i.e., loans repay-
able in one sum on a fixed date) as well as loans repayable
by annual instalments. Probably a little later on it will
be decided to lend on town and city properties as well.
There seems no reason why it shouldn’t do all these things,
although a wild howl is arising about the departure from
the original plan, which was that of “assisting the
farmers.” The Department should be run partly to pro-
vide cheap money, partly to make profit for the State,
and if it can make profit out of loans on city lands it
should do so. There is more risk of loss by depreciation
on fixed loans than on those repayable by instalments
where the amount at stake is always diminishing, but, as
the Department won’t spend its profits in dividends as a
private co. does, it will have an ever-increasing reserve to
meet all risks. And, if no impecunious Treasurer is
allowed to grab this reserve for any purpose, it should go
on expanding till the Department can keep its business
going by lending its own accumulated capital and be alto-
gether independent of borrowed money. Then it will be
able to reduce its interest to 3 per cent., and “cheap
money ” will have arrived in earnest.
• • • •
The Bank of Australasia reports by cable that
its profits for the half-year are £40,569, against £41,158
and £40,854 for the two previous periods. A 5 per cent,
dividend accounts for £40,000 of this, and £569 is carried
forward, making the balance to credit of profit and loss
£12,222.
* * * *
The Westralian revenue for August was
£248,611. Last August it was £114,309. What a boom
they are having! And the amazing part of it is that all
this prosperity is built on gold, yet the increase alone in
the month’s revenue as compared with August, ’95, is
more than the value of all the gold found in the pro-
vince for the month.
* * * »
City of Melbourne Bank liabilities, £2, 756,104.
Assets, including uncalled capital, paper value,
£1,493,226.
• * * *
Melbourne Postal Enquiry has reached another
stage. The principal charge is that every possible job in
tho machinery department was given to a certain person
with a German name, and that he charged from two to
eight times a fair price. The other day an official, said to
be the special friend of the alleged extortionate German,
got into the box to show that the bills were all right.
One item of £7 10s. he claimed was especially moderate ;
the brass and labor cost £2, and making the tools to do
the job with cost £5 18s., and the German kept the tools
afterwards. Now the Board is rubbing its head violently
and wondering if the department was charged for making
a fresh lot of tools on every job.
* * * *
At North Sydney, supposed to be a suburb that,
thanks to its new railway, has kept up remarkably well
despite the general collapse, there was offered the other
day a piece of land for which £25 a foot was declined a
very few years ago. A few allotments fetched £B, and
even at that figure there was hardly any demand.
* * * •
So far, M.L. Government has resumed. 28
estates for subdivision, and, so far as the experiment has
gone, the rents received from settlers equal £4 15s. per
cent, on the money sunk. As the said money only cost
about 4 per cent., the “ruinous Socialistic experiment”
still keeps its head above water.
* * <1 *
Vic. Pull Court rules that when you sell shares,
and pass them on, with a transfer in blank, it is your
duty to see the transfer is completed by personally in-
specting the share-register. Otherwise, your liability
still exists. Mere enquiry at the office is insufficient. In
Weedon v. City and County Bank, plaintiff had inquired
at the bank, and been told his name was not on the
register. This was untrue, and his executors have to
pay.
* * * *
A Bill, providing that one having trust-money
should pay that into a bank to trust account, and file
with the Registrar account of the same with verifying
affidavit, every three months, under severe penalties,
would meet a crying evil. It should apply to all, and
hold out reward to informers. A law is more effective
when fear of an interested informer exists.
* * * *
The other day, at Sydney Quarter Sessions, a
witness, prosecuting a man on an utterly groundless
charge of forgery, admitted having lent him money at a
rate that amounted to 346 j per cent, per annum.
* * * *
Southern rumor has it that National Bank will
div. 5 per cent, at the coming general meeting. On the
strength of this the clever ones are picking up the
shares.
» * * *
Gossiped that some startling revelations re the
bolstering up of a deceased squatter by a certain Aus-
tralian bank will add a spice to a big share-case, billed for
an early court appearance. The bank is said to have ad-
vanced over £400,000 on 120,000 pastoral acres and a host
of now dicky scrip, and the loss on the deal at ruling
values is all of a quarter-million.
* * * *
Bingara (N.S.W)) has at last succeeded in
attracting the attention of some bloated capitalist, and
things are beginning to hum : —“Tenders wanted for the
supply (purchase) of om horse to work puddling machine
at the Diamond Mines, Bingara; also for the supply and
delivery of 50 sheets or more of bark.” Envious pro-
prietors of other shows will notice that the co. doesn t
merely want the loan of a moke, it proposes to buy
him, lock, stock and barrel. Apparently it will only run
to hiring the bark, “purchase” being carefully omitted.
Rumored that Captain Monte Cristo will shortly call for
tenders for a long-handled shovel (purchase).
The Junction, at the deep (675 ft.) level, is open-
ing u-p quite satisfactorily ; ana the Junction North more
than satisfactorily. The latter pays a div. this month,
though only a sixpenny. The mine has taken a good deal
of straightening up. Lately the shaft has been pulled to
pieces ; it was about the worst-arranged on the Barrier.
* * * *
Central North had a flutter, the other day. The
ground was “ a little more ‘heady,’ and showed indica-
tions of a change of strata.” And up shares bounced —
to fall again. But the incident was significant. It won’t
take the actual striking of a lode to send these shares up
rocket-high.
♦ * * *
Five hundred men are building the Cockle
Creek sulphide works (Ashcroft’s process), and the first
returns will probably be got in December.
* * * *
What was referred to some time back in The
Bulletin as the Junction South is now being prospected
by the Yancowinna Co., an Adelaide.concern, and big
things may be developed. For instance, it may prove
that the B.H. Proprietary has so - far' not touched one of
its mineral blocks. This claim (hereafter in this place to
be called the Junction South, since it wa®.only called the
other thing because it failed to float as the J.S.) is peg
and peg south of the Junction, with the British
on the east. Now, the Broken Hill lode has
a pretty true course from the South to Block
14 ; but the big Junction deposit is a quarter
of a mile at least out of line. The question is
whether the connection between the Junction and the
rest of the lode is wholly through the British, or whether
there is a branch running out from the R.H. Proprietary
(further south, that is) to the Junction. If the latter,
the Junction South must have it, and so must one of the
water-blocks of the Proprietary. The writer doesn’t
know. On one hand, the Junction South people are un-
doubtedly opening out on a lode-formation, which carries
silicious ironstone containing chlorides as well as carbon-
ate of lead ; but, on the other hand, the Brisbane Blocks
Co. (long defunct) put down a bore in this same neighbor-
hood, but a little further south, and, though nearly 2000 ft.
was pierced, got no sign of the underlay.
* * * *
Re coal-mines ventilation. One of the principal
N.S.W. colleries, employing upwards of 200 men and
boys, has its mouth situated on a hill-side, and half-a-
mile further up is sunk the ventilating shaft in a gap in
the mountains. At ordinary times the air is well Up to
the mark, but when a westerly wind blows the whole
force of the wind comes through their funnel-shaped gap
and down the shaft. Should the fire be low, or the
furnace-man absent, the air is turned , and, escaping
through old workings and defective trap-doors, fails
altogether to ventilate the mine. What little does get to
the miners is loaded with sulphurous fumes and smoke and
the deadly black-damp of the disused workings. Day
after day is the air thus turned, writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent. When the fire is in good working order and
well-cleaned the state of affairs is worse, for there is a
fight between the upcast draught and the air outside, and
every fresh gust nearly turns back the flames. The flame
from an ordinary pit-lamp will stand as straight as in a
room, and perhaps for several hours hardly 1000 feet a
minute will pass where between 20,000 and 30,000 are
wanted. The effect on the miners, wheelers and horses
is terrible.
* * * •
The Sydney crowd which engineered that diving-
machine scheme, with a view to gathering up with a rake
the rich stores of pearlshell located beyond ordinary
diving depths, is now biting its fingers. The thing
worked all right in. Sydney harbor—but working in cur-
rents is another story.
* * * »
Mt. M'Donald, N.S.-W. : “Mr Blank, who is
considered a good mining-expert, is here examining
mine.” Which surely is equivalent to saying something
very nasty indeed.
» » * *
The public has long wearied of reading that
Falkner’s mine, Pambula, has from 2000 to 3000 tons of
seconds at grass estimated to return 2oz. to the ton. The
miserable fact that this heap has taken five years to accu-
mulate is never mentioned. That is at the rate of about
two tons a day.
* * * *
A■—er—romance in each line is a good average.
Sunday Times : “ There is little doubt that-the Wentworth
mine has lost—for a time at least—its rich run of gold.”
How, then, does it manage to produce over IOOOoz. every
month? “ The reef has taken a very flat course.” Then
how can it have been lost? “The D’Arcy is an English
co., managed by Mr. Newman, M.P.” Simply not true.
Mr. Newman is not and never was manager.
* * * *
Cobar, N.S.W. : “ The Burra Burra copper-
mine has raised about 20 tons of ore, and -it looks very
rich. The co. has obtained a suspension of labor condi-
tions to allow of erecting a water-jacket.” The news is
rich if the ore isn't.
* * * *
Garangula (N.S.W.): “The great drawback to
this field is the absence of proper titles without which it
is impossible for a sale to be effected.” When is N.S.W.
Govt, going to make some genuine effort to remove the
glaring anomalies of the mining law? What good has
come out of the great mining conference held early this
year ? , . .
Cobar: “ The Lady Greaves clean-up last week
was very disappointing.” Well, it will act as a warning
to certain other mines in the locality not to crush. After
a crushing, crushed !
• * * *
The completion of Climo’s chlorination works,
W3'along, is now within reasonable , distance. Owner,
Sully, of Broken Hill ; manager, Eisenstaedter, formerly
of Mt. Morgan, son of plucky old-man Eisenstaedter.
• » * »
Stated that a group of leases at Canowindra,
N.S.W., including the Red Jacket and Blue Jacket, have
been floated in London. Capital, <£150,000 ; working do.,
£25,000. Also stated that there is enough quartz in sight
to keep a 40-head battei-y running for several years. This
is extremely doubtful.
* ♦ * *
New Bushman’s, N.S.W., a 6d. div. —the first.
All hope of paying Is. a month, as once expected, seems
abandoned ; even the Od. has been long deferred.
• * * *
Some persons are trying to awaken an interest
in the working of cinnabar in N.S.W. So far it has been
a dismal failure for the reason that no sooner is one man’s
money secured than another demands his back. The
handing of the money back has been one good feature in
the game, anyhow.
Capertee (N.S.W-) Kerosene Shale Co. (David
Sytne one of the principal backers) is sending ’Ome the
managing director to float the concern into a £500,000
co., with £190,000 working capital. All this cash is pretty
well wanted to railway-connect the property with the
State service and erect suitable distilling works.
» * * *
From Parkes (N.S.W.): “Re the W elcome mine.
It has not been worked for many years. There is nothing
in sight, as all the old workings have fallen in. It never
was too brilliant, and that is no doubt why it was let
slide.” And for this the promoters, without spending
anything in re-opening work, have the coolness to ask
22,000 fully-paid shares, and the public, to be good enough
to take all liability. In this, they have been very largely
and nobly assisted for many weeks by the great and
reliable Sabbath tipster, until “Buy Welcomes” has
become a familiar phrase. The thing was four times para-
graphed by the tipster last Sunday !
* * * *
A few N.S.W. crushings: Eleanora, 500 tons,
5460 z. including concentrates (now the boss mine of Hill-
grove) ; Baker’s Creek, 4G4 tons, 5140 z. ; Sunlight, 460
tons, 3090 z.; West Sunlight, 185 tons, 990 z. ; Lady Elsie,
52 tons, 1350 z.; Dempsey and Co., Wyalong, amalgam
from 70 tons, 400 oz.
* * * *
The Wentworth and Aladdin mine (N.S.W.)
output for the six months, ended July : Wentworth, 5392
tons for 79580 z.; div. Is., amounting to £25,000. Some
day it will feel the burden of this ponderous capital.
Aladdin, 1839 tons for 76280 z.; divs. 4s. (in all £20,000).
* * • *
Some newspapers which, for their own reasons,
have lent a helping hand in the Coolgardie boom, seem
anxious that the Age special should reveal the name of
the mine which kept up a good gold-yield by buying that
metal until the mine was sold. If they really imagine
that no salting of this sort has been done on that field
their innocence is truly great.
* * * *
Boomster Alick Forrest has withdrawn his
attempt to reduce the labor-conditions on W.A. gold
leases. The opulent £20,000-a-year mining-engineer,
George Grey, has intimated his intention of abandoning a
large area in Lake Lefroy district, on the ground that the
labor-conditions are altogether excessive for purely ex-
ploring and prospecting work. True, the regulations do
require amendment in this direction.
* * * *
Most of W.A. gold-mining companies floated in
London should be known “ The Westralian Goldfields
Stock Watering Unlimited.”
* * * •
The shareholders in the Plunderderry, at a meet-
ing held in London July 22nd, decided to devote £15,000
of the £30,000 working capital still remaining to the pur-
chase of outside properties; to abandon all the outside
blocks, except the West Londonderry, or so much of it as
would bring the area of the original claim up to 25a., and
to continue sinking and driving in the main block. Lord
Fingall and Mr. Myring said the threatened litigation of
the finders prevented them from immediately putting
their shares of the flotation profits into an exploration co.
for the benefit of shareholders. They had no doubt that
it was the intention of the late Col. North to give up his
profits, but his executors considered that they could not
do it without an order of the Court. Seeing that about
£750,000 in cash and shares was given for the London-
derry, what sort of outside properties do they expect to
buy with £15,000 ?
* * * *
The W.A. Govt, proposes to take off the duties
on machinery now that most of it is in the country.
* * • »
Menzies, W.A.: Lady Shenton, 237 tons, 9540 z.
Batteries are proving the existence of some good mines at
Menzies.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie : Ivanhoe cleaning up for the month,
187 tons, 13350 z. Average a little over 7oz. Even this
great return is excused: “ During the month a large
quantity of low-grade quartz lying at grass had to be put
through the mill, owing to the screens becoming clogged
by slimes from the rich stone.” The W.A. newspaper-
hummers can’t even leave well alone.
* * * *
Lake View, W.A., 630 tons, 19400 z. H. C.
Callahan, the well-known American mining-enginer, has,
at last, found a resting-place in the management of this
mine.
* * » *
Kalgoorlie wire referring to a.strike made in the
Australia East mine : “ The lode is very wide and the
stone on the footwall is simply full of gold specimens,
beautifully frescoed with mustard gold.” “ Beautifully
frescoed ! ” The trail of the Noose ball-room and picnic
journalist! “ The mustard lode takes well and gives plea-
sure to all,” has, no doubt, been struck out by the merci-
less sub-editor.
• * * *
A new way of valuing mines—by the acre. The
Brown Hill Central g.m. prospectus points out that its
59 acres “is only valued at £340 per acre, whereas the
Brown Hill stands at £19,643 per acre, and the Ivanhoe at
£16,666.” A few acres of Mt. Morgan might be valued at
half-a-million per acre and the balance at not as many
farthings. Such asinine reckoning fortunately does not
exist outside of London.
* * * *
Aftermath of boom—the shareholders of Bay-
ley’s West G.M. Co., in London, are taking action to
cancel the purchase of the mine, on the ground of mis-
representation. How many will follow if they succeed ?
* * * •
W.A. gold-output for August, 29,5160 z. Last
month the omission of over 5000 oz. by the non-arrival of
the Cue escort was particularly alluded to ; this month it
is silently included, and allusion is made to the substan-
tial increase for the month.
* ♦ * *
Great Boulder—Bs9 tons, 26340 z. - Compared
with the splendid yields, the divs. are small, accounted for,
no doubt, by the cost of W.A. mining and the running of
an English co. It wants a good mine to stand either.
* • *
London Journal of Finance points out that, if
the Westralian gold-returns don’t fall off and the capi-
talisation isn’t increased, they would just suffice to pay
£1 13s. per cent, on present capital— if there were no
expenses. Allowing for expenses, the gold-yield, it
reckons, is equal to about 9d. per cent, per annum profit.
* * * ♦
Gold found at Surrey Hills, within seven miles
of Melbourne. Possibly we may yet see shafts going down
on the city sites of bung banks. Such operations might
bring to light some of those reserve funds which slipped
through the cracks and were never recovered.
* * * *
Rontgen rays have been put to a new use at
Ballarat School of Mines, where F. J. Martell and W.
Huey Steele have applied them to chunks of quartz. The
stone is transparent and the metal opaque, so an approxi-
mate estimate of true value can be obtained which puts a
Westralian expert to shame every time.
* * * *
The Tasmania directors explain the discrepancy
between the value of the monthly output and the size of
the monthly 18d. div. by the fact that the new machinery
isn’t all paid for. Shareholders still grumble, and won-
der if any of the machinery was cast in a goldsmith’s
shop.
* * * *
Tasmanian mining divs. for last month :—Tas-
mania mine, £3600; Golden Gate, £3200; Bisehoff,
£3000; Silver Queen, £2160; Western, £l5OO. Total,
£13,460. Based on area, and that is a reasonable basis,
Tas. is the richest gold and mineral province in Austral-
asia.
* * * »
Chairman Bowes Kelly and wife hold 19,745
Mt. Lyell shares. If the stock sees £2O, and many san-
guine Southern scrippers swear it will, Kelly will —well,
what would you do if you had £400,000 in one parcel ?
Metallurgist H. H. Schlapp’s original 12,000
Mt. Lyell scrip holding has shrunk to 1870. Panned out
the bulk at £2 a time.
Of the Sydney Mt. Lyell scrippers David
Stratton and Hubert Kelly, brother of Bowes, are on top
with 1379 and 1338 respectively. Stratton’s chance of
ousting one of the mysterious crowd at the Nov. board
election is considered good.
A B. J. Finklet from the Mt. Lyell register :
Winifred Fink, “ Wooronga,” Queen’s Road, 680; Cather-
ine Fink, ditto, 582.
With few exceptions the largest individual
holders of L.vells are in Tas. The Henry’s, for whom the
National Bank of Tas. protects 5000 odd, are down for
4306 shares, and J. Powell, an early East Davenport
scripper in the mine, for 2577.
Pioneer James Crotty, with 3020 shares, is the
solitary original on the list, and he is going to law over
another 2250. Altogether he monopolises the bulkiest
lump of the field, his interests in the South, North, Ex-
tended, West, Consols, Blocks and Comstock running to
sufficient scrip to paper a big room.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan, for August: 8960 tons, 12,4870 z.,
or more than half the average total output of the whole
of the mines of Westralia.
* * * *
Regulation of oyster-beds by law in Torres Straits
is a failure. The law forbids the removal of shell under
6in., but this regulation is evaded by opening all small
shells taken and removing pearls (if any) and throwing
the young oysters back into the sea—which means their
destruction. A special inspector would be needed for
every boat almost to check this practice. The yield is
steadily decreasing. In 1891 the average yield per boat
was £625 ; in 1895 only £391.
Govt.-resident Douglas has no faith in State
regulation preventing casualties in the diving business.
According to the same authority, fatalities often take
place in comparatively shallow water —so law has hitherto
been based on a false idea. The passion for more
shell is very strong in most divers, and defies all attempts
to check it. An old diver went down this year with fatal
results. As he lay dying he remarked pathetically, “ I’m
sorry I’m going. The water was clear, and I could have
got plenty more shell."
* * * *
Phoenix Golden Pile, Gympie: 163 tons, lllooz.;
Queen Cross, Towers, 245 tons, BU6oz. ; New Brilliant Ex-
tended, 73 tons, 90oz. Should this represent the average
value of the reef it means one of the biggest things ever
found on the Towers. Victoria G.M.A. (Towers), 282 tons,
4910 z of the consistentdiv.-paying mines : sixpence
every two months for years. Yet the shares stand at Bs.
to 9s. Croydon Consols, 252 tons, 12590 z. The public
eye is being opened to recurrence of the big crushings
from this mine. No. 1 North Golden Gate, Croydon, 190
tons, 4360 z. Homeward Bound Croydon, 65 tons, 128 oz.
• * • •
Stated that one object of Jawbone Neild’s trip
’Ome is to float mining companies for the Northern Terri-
tory. If so, the writer would like to put in a pound or
two, whatever the intrinsic value of the ventures. Know-
ing the value of so fine a jaw allied to so magnificent a
moustache he doesn’t want to hear anything about the
business. Man and money ready at BuLLETiN^oflice.
The chairman of the Taranaki Oil Co., M.L.,
addressing shareholders: “The promoters are anxious
that none shall embark capital in the venture unless they
can afford to lose it. It would be a mistake to think that
success is certain instead of only probable.” Refreshing
and novel candor. Never heard of before in connection
with the flotation of any mine.
* * » •
The great Waihi (M.L.) mine for Aug., 2900
tons ore—£9Boo bullion. Since Ist Jan. the Waihi co.
has won £81,848 gold bullion, and more than repaid in
full the par value of its shares. Total yield since ’9O,
£436,661.
* * • •
He the assay-puff newspaper fraud. In selecting
a piece of stone for assay a man never takes a poor-look-
ing piece. He always prefers a piece showing gold. You
see a man carefully hunt over a 30-ton paddock of stone
for an hour for a suitable piece to assay. What is the
value of that assay as to the quality of the paddock ? A
thousand tons put through the battery is a good, prac-
tical assay; 2000 tons is still better. When will people
cease to be fooled by assays?
• • • •
The Bulletin’s contention that the Attorney-
General should not practise privately is brought to mind
by Isaacs leaving the court (Rigg v. Standard) each day at
3.40 p.m. for Parliament, and when ah argument in his
address was refuted stating—“ I was not in court when
that evidence was given.” Those who pay the piper must
feel like kicking something.
* * • *
The indicator. Old Brown, although on the
directorate, was doubtful of the prospects of the mine, so
gave the mine-manager 500 shares and watched results.
As they were promptly sold, he followed suit, so got out
of a duffer.
* • * »
Old Mosesstein was at court the other day during
the hearing of a forged-bill case, and afterwards thus
expressed himself: —“Veil, dose brokers hat a goot ting
on, und let it slip ; te bill vould haf been renewed offen,
und te interest paid reg’lar, und goot interest, too, for te
man is in a Government billet; all hees mining peesness
vould be dares. Ach ! my poy, a forgery ish a goot ting,
I alva.ys vant such a lot of coaxing for a renewal, und
gives it dough monish ish tight; de interest ish goot und
ven dey do pay te pill I feels I haf lost one annuity.”
Curious how many no - liability companies
finish up as no asset companies !
* 9 # +
To The Bulletin from America by a mining
man not unknown in Australia: —“ I am very busy
looking up mines, and hope soon to get what I want.
America is having a mining boom, and it looks as though
it had come to stay. We are also having a silver boom,
or, rather, a great - silver talk, for I don’t think it will ever
amount to anything else. Some London co’s have already
done big legitimate business here, and their representa-
tives are travelling all over the fields on the look-out for
mines.”
Mr. R. A. Fraser, inventor of the Fraser
railway automatic door-controller, writes :
Dear Bulletin,—A paragraph in your issue of 29th ult.
re the Eraser railway automatic door-controller is calcu-
lated to convey so misleading an impression that I am
constrained to ask for a correction. The very first prin-
ciple of the Fraser controller is that it renders accident
to life or limb practically impossible; in fact, it is de-
signed to protect the public against the consequences of
their own blindness and stupidity. This, and the reduc-
tion of working-expenses, are the chief points claimed for
the invention. The doors are not “ banged all at once by
an invisible power” ; the doors could not possibly jamb
passengers’ arms or heads, as suggested, because the very
faintest resistance on their part would suffice to hold the
door pending the removal of the obstacle, after which the
door would close itself. All the doors are subject to the
controller, yet each door can be manipulated independ-
ently of the controller, and separately. Lastly, Commis-
sioner Mathieson did not decline the patent on account of
any defect which it possessed; the defect, as lam led to
believe, lay in the coffers of the Railway Department;
and, anyhow, I didn’t press it on him. I prefer, in fact,
to dispose of the appliance in London.
In Memoriam.
JULIAN THOMAS, “The Vagabond.”
“ The Vagabond is dead ! ” What mem’ries
throng
Around his name ! Men miss the master hand
That limned such living pictures of our land
And distant seas and shores ; the spirit strong
To urge the Right and reprobate the Wrong ;
The sympathy that seemed to understand
Unspoken sorrows; and the mind that planned
Great schemes that to the future still belong.
And women knew him chivalrous and true ;
And children loved to gather round his knee;
None ever sought him in the hour of need
In vain, if he could aid : What he could do
He did in secret, not that men might see ;
And cynic speech oft hid benignant deed !
“ He died in harness ! ” So he ivished should close
His life of arduous work. The facile pen,
That, to the last, could charm the minds of men
Just laid aside, when Nature gave repose
To him who loved her, him whose virile prose
Rang out with more than poet’s fervor when
He hymned her praises—surely now and then
She doth to such her mysteries disclose !
Wanderer, thy many journeyings are o’er ;
Writer, thy last fair “ copy ” has been writ !
Friend of the poor, widow and orphan mourn
That they shall know thy sympathy no more,
And tears and prayers, like floral emblems knit
On love and sorrow, shall thy tomb adorn.
A.V.G.


Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION .
rril-IS lotion cures Swelling and Sandy lilight,
1 nflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very, beneficial to those who have I Yeah Eyes, as it
streiii/thens the Sight, By post, 3s. per bottle.
Solely by H. A. It OSH. Chemist,
581 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing 1
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOROUGHLY SHETJUK
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS - RIDING
OFFICE BUSH
PROMENADE TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
EVENING WEAR.
rlltST QUALITY MEN'S SUITS 35/-
ILXTRA' QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
rakiVi (OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &. BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B> MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
TYPHOID
Dr. Gresswell, Chairman Melb.
Health Board, says : “ Out and"
out Jeffery’s are' the best fil-
ters.” The Professor of Hy-
giene, Melbourne University
says : “ Ordinary filters are*
powerless against genus so
small as typhoid r/e.rin*
use a JEFFERY FILTER.’*
The Jeffery filter princip /’
is highly recommended
by the President o/
N.S.VV. Health Board.
i3P°" Write or call on
J. PEARDON,
4 Bond-st., Sydney;
or, J. JEFFERY,
89 Spring-st., Melb..
Prices, lus. Gd. to £3.
USE A
Jeffery
Filter.
Society
COOLALTA
CAMEO
the Sydney cyclists ask the Mayor to cease
- watering the streets on the score of danger to
wheelmen. - As slippery roads are the poor pedes-
trian s only safeguard against the scorcher, The
Bulletin implores the Mayor to liberally grease
ail street-corners and crossings.
* * » *
Ed. Bulletin, —Adelaide and Suburban
I ramway Co. (running lines between the city and
es . Adelaide) works the Deity for all it is worth,
the co. Charges 3d. cash for a single journey (or
tickets 2s. doz.), but to-day (Sunday), on applying
for tickets to the conductor, I am told that they
don t sell tickets on the Sawbath. No, they don’t
sell tickets but they collect the penny extra cash-
tare with great equanimity.—Holy Joe.
* * * *
A question for N.S.W. Attorney-General
Want: poisoner Dean being under a long sentence
of perjury, &c., why are not those equally-danger-
ous criminals, Butler and Davis, now serving only
half Dean s time, prosecuted for the perjury they
have apparently committed on three distinct occa-
sions ? A lot of sympathy was shown in high
places for Mrs. Dean ; it fizzled out, however,
file same people showed no sympathy for Mrs.
Butler. Why ? Because sympathising with Mrs.
Dean meant whitewashing Judge \Vmdeyer •
whereas sympathy with Mrs. Butler would, it
■was thought by some, be akin to morally tarring
and feathering that potentate.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s epigrammatists :
. Genius often' consists in an infinite capacity for taking
Drink. • n
The Woman with.a Past is generally a Woman with a
good many Presents.
They say sin is.blaok -it is really variegated.
Love—the Knell of Innocence.
The devil is superfluous in the economy of thin-'s.
Each man may be safely trusted to work out bis own
damnation.
SEEKING REST.
BOSS COCKIE: “ Lookin’ for work, mate? ”
CITY SWAGGIE (wary, of seeking) : “ Good God, no! Can yer
give us a rest scrub-cutting? ”
And again. Epigrammatist “Danton’’
(Melb. ) to The Bulletin :
Riches are the developing ptomaines of dying empires.
There’s a great dead-tree forest. That is Life. There’s
a “ blaze ” here and there on the trtes. ’That is'Fame.
Falsehood cleans his nails, and is then called politeness.
Think of this, ye women ! " ‘
Foiiteness is the smile that the undertaker fixes on the
faces of the walking dead.
The apotheosis of advertisement—a suicide club.
Judge A’Becket held, the other day, in Vic-
toria, that the mere fact of a husband visiting a
bagnio, even though it were “only to shout for the
girls, you know, ” is conduct which the court will
hold as conducing to a wife’s subsequent adultery,
and accordingly a sufficient ground to justify the
court in refusing the husband a divorce for such
adultery. One phrase used by the Judge, “mis-
conduct which might provoke her to retaliatory
infidelity,’’supplies a long-felt want in legal ter-
minology. What a long act of the Comedie
Humaine might not a patient Balzac cram under
such a title as “ retaliatory infidelity ? ”
Hubby, when he got a decree nisi, fondly
imagined he was financially clear of his bad bar-
gain. But, as was proved in a recent Vic. case,
hubby is liable for maintenance pending the order
absolute. Which opens up the possibility of a
smart woman running up a big score during the
intervening stage for necessaries (?), for hubby to
pay or fight over.
* * * *
A pretty Vic. heiress, whose money was
made out of unromantic beer, is at present re-
ported to be dying, partly of an old-fashioned
disease called love, and, in a degree, through her
efforts to exist upon two mouthfuls of food per
diem, with no liquid to wash it down.
* * * *
Missionary Lawes, in defence and applause
of Chinese and other missions, says that “ the loss
of life in the mission-field is a mere nothing to the
sacrifice of life on the hunting-field and race-
course ; yet we hear nothing about discountenanc-
ing or stopping either form of sport.” The worst
of all parsons is that they won’t box according to
Queensberry, or any other, rules. It appears to be
impossible for a parson to state a parallel case. In
the first place, no one wants to discountenance or
stop males who want to be missionaries, from
going to China to be disembowelled, or to New
< Juinea to be baked ; it is the female whom white
men would preserve from horrible chances. How
many accidents to females are there on the race-
course ? About one in a century. Again, let Mr.
Lawes stand on his own contrast, even. The
females at hunting-meets (taking the other in-
stance he gave) are about 1000 to 1 of the females
missioning in savage lands. Will the New Guinea
missionary assert that the proportion of females
(or of males and females combined) killed in hunt-
ing-fields is anything like the number of females
killed, or maimed, or ravished, in mission-fields
among savages ?
* * * *
The Anglican Church plumes itself on
being the most successful missionary body in
Christianising the Australian Chinese. That
probably comes from the fact that the Anglican
Church ordains and sends forth Chinese among
their Australian countrymen, whereas the R.C.
Church, for instance, fears Paddy’s objection to
Mongolians would endanger respect to the cloth.
Just think of Pat going on his knees for a Chow’s
blessing f
“ Scotty ” —lie this Chi-
nese - mission craze. You re-
member writing of Hospital Sun-
day that “Every woman is at
heart a barmaid’’? It is part
of the same game. I cannot
believe that, except in case of
dementia, any woman who knows
her Bible would dare to argue
that the wrecks, ashore, ground-
ing and impending, are not the
proper sphere for her if told to
“Go,”as the Sydney young lady
said. The truth is that home-
work is dirty and disagreeable—
likewise sneered at and unpaid.
Promoters of Melb. subur-
ban charity balls now find it im-
possible to provide enough dan-
cing-men for the girls who con-
scientiously pay for their tickets
and trot out their much-en-
during chaperones to every Town
Hall within the South-suburban
radius. Local Johnnies must go
on the nod or not at all. So
now very often “poor father”
lias to find the money for his
girls’ dresses, gloves, bouquets,
tickets and partners* It is under-
stood, though, that the franked
youth occasionally finds his own
boutonniere.
Apropos the parsons attached to the Sydney
matrimonial agencies : years ago a man who had
made a good thing out of after-dark marriages
committed-a technical error and got into gaol.
Un release he applied for re-registration as entitled
to perform marriages, but was refused on the
ground that he had no congregation. Have the
present-day Gretna Greeners got congregations ?
* * * *
There are already rival Christian Police
Associations in the N.S. W. “ foorce.” The saints
are throwing dice for the bobby’s soul.
* * * ,
Before a N.S.W. country Bench, a few
days since, a youth of 17 years was charged by
his father with assault. Witnesses fully proved
the case, and showed that the boy was ah absolute
young ruffiail. He. would have got off with a
small fine, but he set up the defence that as he was
. in the eyes of the law an infant it was the duty of
rnu * a , , er k ee P him till he was of legal age.
xhe old man, he said, would not accept this very
reasonable view—lienee he had proceeded to bash
it into him with a club. The young man’s time
for the next two months will mainly be occupied
in searching for the soft side of the plank he tries
to sleep on.
* * * *
The earnings of the average typewriter are
AT THE H.S.W. SOCIETY OF ARTISTS' SHOW.
at the best precarious. The usual rate of payment
is 2d. per folio (72 words) for a first copy, and Id.
per folio for extra carbon copies. If there were
plenty of jobs a typist could make a level pound
daily ; but, between scarcity of work and “bad
Pays,” the key-pounder has but a hand-to-mouth
existence. It is now seriously proposed to reduce
the rate to Id. per folio and ?>d. for carbon extras,
and doubtless tire soulless individuals who give
their work out will even sweat the machinist below
this pitiful rate. Some idea of the pickings made
by judges’ associates and others, who are allowed
Is. and over per folio, and have the copying type-
written, may thus be imagined. Only the other
week tenders were called in Sydney for making
eight copies of an 88-folio document, and the work
was gladly done by a hard-up widow typist for
15s. —£3 would only have been moderate remune-
ration.
* * * *
In a Sydney evening paper recently ap-
peared 15 in memoriam notices over one poor old
woman.
In the Yic.
Criminal
Court lately a
juror was al-
lowed by the
Judge to take
the affirma-
tion in the
cumbersome
and obsolete
form in vogue
before the pas-
.si n g of the
“Oaths and
Evidence Act,
1890.” Why
haven’t some
con victions
been quashed
on the strength
of this?
Appel -
lan t s
wou 1 d
have a
sympathetic
Full Court,
especially as
theC.J. would
be the one
appealed against.
* * * *
lie the N.Q. Chinese publican who
“ sacked ’’his yellow cook to avoid a white boy-
cott. That licensed Chow has talked himself into
the belief that he is not a Chinaman—or, what
amounts to the same thing for business purposes,
has made liis customers believe that he thinks so.
The shearers accept him as white by way of a
joke. He has a large family, all musical, who run
a string band, and when Jimmy says “You play
‘ Wellin’ ali Gleen,’ make my poo’ hea’t bleed,” it
invariably brings down the house. Another out-
rage on the “ ould sod ” is perpetrated by a half-
caste up Cairns way who has changed his name
from Ah Cow to O’Cow, and very successfully
affects a brogue.
* * * *
One ship’s officer on the Anglo-Australian
route is said to be an excellent husband.
* . * * A- *
“ Cold pig” is one objection to the Satur-
day half-holiday with many shopkeepers. This
is a term of art used to describe the customer who
returns next day to change the article purchased.
If she buys on Saturday, she usually wears it on
Sunday, and so foregoes her rights. But if she
buys on Friday night, they say, but tell it not in
Gath, Saturday morning will be mainly occupied
with her and sister “ cold pigs.”
* * * *
nr n • n . ~ , .
Melb. girls are beating all records this
season in the matter of paint and peroxide.
• ® * *
The three
most notable
boarders at a big
Australian coffee-
palace are an ex-
theatrical lady,
her husband, and
their pet dawg—
a poor little terrier
that represents a
whole heap of
family cares. The
owners of this
pampered animal
seem to live for
nothing else.
When they leave
the dining-table
they carry away
tit-bits for Toby,
and when they
walk abroad it is
because Toby is
morose and needs
exercise. Not
long ago the hairy
treasure suffered
from fried potato
on the liver, or
eggs-and-bacon on
the chest, or
something of the
kind. Anyway,
rest and quietude
were most neces-
sary under the
circs. ; but, the
hotel in general
not having been
notified of the
facts, it happened
thatsome children
started playing a
noisy game—all
children’s games
are noisy, by the
way—in the cor-
ridor outside the
dawg’s bedroom
door. So the pa-
tient’s faithful
nurse and adopted
mother came tip-
toe forth upon the
mat and whis-
pered, “Play
softly, children, Toby has dropped off into a
beautiful doze.”.
* * * *
It all depends on the kind of shop your
father kept. There seems to be an unwritten law
that, while “ you may be as genteel as never was
and brew, yet you cannot be genteel and bake.”
Aspiring drapers rush into the upper air like a
gas-balloon escaped from the hand of a child ;
other trades seem lead-weighted. The infallible
plan used to be to make your pile, go to Eng-
land and hire some stony Hon. Mrs. or Lady to
present your feminines at Court, and, after being
touched by Royalty for the Evil of Comnroness,
all taint of the shop vanished, and the family
spread themselves to the smiles of Toorak or Potts
Point. Now, Royalty seems to have lost its value,
or something. There are several families who
have gone through the whole programme cor-
rectly, have returned per P. and 0., duly broken
off the two youngest girls’ engagements with the
fifth and sixth officers, acquired the latest London
accent, French hats, and contempt for Australia,
and yet they are still standing off and on waiting
A WILD CAT ITEM.
Why the rabbit-trouble is not yet very bad in Westralia.
for a favoring breeze to waft them in among the
Nicest People. Court presentations don’t do the
trick nowadays, evidently.
* * * *
The oldest N.S.W. lady State-school
teacher died last week. Deceased lady served for
over 40 years, and had contributed to the Super-
annuation Pund from its inception to the day of
her death ; but, because she didn’t retire from the
fund when the chance offered recently, and didn’t
live to reach the pension-age (60), her family can’t
claim and won’t get a penny of the large amount
which sne was—up to very recently —forced to
contribute to the wMd-cat fund.
* * * *
An almost historic spot of Melbourne dis-
appeared last week with the carting away of
bait Lake City ” —the aggregation of bank-fore-


CHAKLEMONTS
• STUDIOS
492 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
114 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT are now introducing
Platinotype Photographs in SEPIA TONE.
The effects obtained are most charming. Every-
one interested in w.hat is artistic should see the
new work, on view at the rooms,
492 George Street, Sydney.
MATRIMONY.
T F you wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult
-** us. Our varied and extensive clientfcle enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stations of life. Local
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecy. All communications confidential. Information
sent free to bona-fide applications. Write for pamphlet
and rules.
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association.
07 PHILLIPS STREET, SYDNEY;
(Next Hotel Metropole), or Box GD6, G.P.0., Sydney.
JAMES KIDMAN
BEGS TO INTIMATE THAT HE HAS
AND IS NOW IN A POSITION TO SUPPLY THE GENERAL PUBLIC AT
Bs. 9d. per Single Dozen Quarts ; Bs. Gd. per Dozen by the Case.
SPECIAL KATES LOH HOTELS.
KINDLY SEND l'Oll A Cl UC ILL A It.
closed weatherboard hovels which pained the eye
of every train-traveller on the South Melb. line.
There it was that the poverty-stricken mother and
daughter, who had “ known better days,” elected
to suicide by charcoal a couple of years back, their
bodies being discovered a fortnight later when the
bailiff came. By a curious coincidence, Morrison
tells their piteous story, even to the names, in his
“ Tales of Mean Streets. ” Next door but one is
where a love-blighted elderly greengrocer cut his
throat and was discovered, after many days, a
fearful spectacle mouldering among a heap of
decaying marrows and cabbages ; and it was in
the right-of-way behind that young Buck cut the
throat of the mistress who deserted him for a
GATE!
Design for medals to be presented to the
Australian Eleven.
richer man. Salt Lake City was built during the
land-boom on reclaimed land, the basis being
Yarra sludge, and in the winter its solid nature
would retain the rain until a stretch of water
several hundred yards long extended before
the cottages. On the surface of this floated the
evil-smelling white slime which gave the salu-
brious locality its name.
* * * *
The latest Melb. cycling church-parade
exhibited a new development of the feminine
scorcher: a young, pretty, and shapely cycliste
appearing with her corsetless form encased in
grey tweed knickers, an open jacket to match, and
a low-collared, man-like, white woollen sweater.
She was dressed for pace, and she kept faith with
her attire. Also, her presence was a great help to
male devotion.
* * * *
Prominent amongst the dancers at Melb.
Mayor Storey’s ball was the young lady-doctor
who headed the honor-list in her final year, and in
consequence possesses the coveted privilege of
galvanising “drunks” and sewing-up “ accidents”
in Melb. Hospital casualty-ward. Unlike most
clever girls, Mdlle. Sawbones is as frisky, pretty,
saucy, and well-grown as if she hardly knew a
black pill from a chocolate-cream. Partners,
patients, and grudging he-surgeons all sooner or
later fall under the spell of this charming anomaly,
whose professional future would look rose-colored
indeed only for that rumored rock ahead —matri-
mony.
* * # *
Item from recent Sydney “ In Memoriam”
notice: —
Cold is the place we have laid you to rest;
Cold are the sods we have laid on your breast.
If in heaven, or where e’er you be,
Oh, father, dear father, we still think of thee.
This tendency to speculate about the possible
address of the deceased is ruining the “ In Memo-
riam ” business.
* * * *
The libel-verdict for £5O and costs given
last week against the Australian Star apparently
establishes the principle that a reporter cannot
take a charge against a person from the police-
sheet or information, but to be safe must report it
as it is actually read out in court. At present
about 75 per cent, of police-court proceedings in
the dailies are merely copied from the “papers ”
in each ease.
* * * »
About the most horrible yarn this year is
that of the stowaway on the s.s, Namoi. Presum-
ably he was drunk, or else he was wholly ignorant
of the possibilities of the case, for he seems to have
deliberately lowered himself into a hopeless cul-de-
sac among the boilers, and, when steam was got
up, he slowly fried and sizzled in his prison. His
last effort, apparently, was to climb out by shinning
up a steam-pipe, itself as hot as Nebuchadnezzar’s
furnace. The only case at all resembling it which
The Bulletin remembers is that of a stowaway
who saw a chance to hide himself inside the big
boiler; a plate had been removed, and he had no
idea what a boiler was for, so he took advantage
of the chance. His bones were afterwards dis-
covered, and his boiled hat and boots, but nothing
more.
* * * *
If it is a fact—and Minister Gould, off his
guard in an Assembly debate, appears to have ad-
mitted the truth of the statement —that Judge
Windeyer sought to discount the alibi sworn
to in the Suffield case by asserting, in his
private report to the Executive, that one of the
women who sought to establish it was a mistress
of Suffield’s, the troubles of ex-Justice Mount
Rennie are only just beginning. The husband of
the woman whose character is impugned is a deter-
mined man, with perfect faith in his wife, whose
character is locally considered excellent. Also,
the allegation that Suffield possessed an available
mistress is regarded as by no means calculated to
strengthen the charge of assault with brutal and
protracted violence alleged against the accused.
» * * *
A report upon the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Inebriate Retreat of the W.C.T.U. “expressed
regret that no one would enter the home of her
own free will. ”
Prayers, followed by beer,
May make ’em sincere,
And proud, in a manner to show it;
But—water and prayers
Make such dreary affairs,
That they won’t enter there if they know it 1
* * * »
The most recent sensation in Perth (W.A.)
is the discovery of tuberculosis. The Chief In-
spector of Stock, acting “ upon information re-
ceived,” reported the existence of the disease in
several animals in some slaughter-houses near
Perth, and generally stated that the slaughter-
houses were filthy, and that the pigs gathered
around the dead and diseased carcases and feasted
upon the blood and corruption, and varied the
sameness of the courses by devouring aborted
calves, and were themselves wasting away with
disease. The proofs of the existence of the disease
were unmistakable, and, so that they should be
brought home to the Govt., samples of the rotten
matter were bottled and gracefully placed in the
tea-room of the Leg. Assembly. In spite of all
this evidence, the Govt, and its supporters in the
House, who are all more or less interested in the
bullock-trade, seemed to treat the whole affair rather
lightly, and despise the alleged fresh discovery of
SO diseased bullocks; they said that while they
would do all they could to protect the public
health, the existence of the disease had yet to be
proved.
This diseased-meat and milk question is one on
which millions should if necessary be spent by the
State. The community is convulsed when a man
poisons his wife or a wife her husband ; but the
community is yet too ignorant to realise that
the carcase of a single cancerous or tuberculosed
beast may spread ruin and agonising death among
scores and indirectly among hundreds of citizens.
The auctioneer or butcher who knowingly sells
diseased meat is a poisoner and a felon, and should
be treated as such. And the politician in power
who fails in one jot of his duty on this truly
tremendous social question incurs the moral re-
sponsibility attaching to wholesale murder.
* * * ...47: *
b
Scene Flemington saleyai’ds, Melb.,
before the Diseases in Meat Act. Auctioneer, to
butcher, who has just paid a big price for a
“ lumpy-jaw ” bullock : “ Ha ! you paid too much
for that bullock.” Butcher (facetiously): “I don’t
know that, Mr. Hammer. Look at the amount
of sausage-meat I have in that head.” The
bullock’s head was twice the original size owing
to lumpy-jaw (cancer). Ugh !
♦ * * *
New commandment—Thou shalt not com-
mit adulteration.
Those par-
sons who com-
plain of the
painful noise
made by the
crying of news-
papers in Syd-
ney streets on
Sunday morn-
ings appear to
forget the
utterly need-
less, ear-split-
ting clangour
of their own
church-bells.
* *
“Are bar-
maids wait-
resses, so as to
come under
the segis of the
Yic. Factories
Act?”isaques-
tion asked,
and answered
in the affirma-
tive, by Dea-
kin. Perhaps
some of The
Bulletin poet
experts on the
barmaid ques-
tion could
throw light on
the matter.
* *
Latest re
the slow tran-
sit of tele-
grams from
Adelaide to
Westr a 1 i a.
The poles on
Eucla division
are full of white ants, and on fine days these
ants get on the wires and eat the messages as they
come along.
* * * *
The Q. Minister for Education was re-
quested the other day to take steps to prevent
colored children attending State schools. Some
short time ago the Railway Commissioners were
also petitioned to set aside (on certain lines) a
special carriage for the travelling heathen. Already
in many districts the Kanaka has his separate
church and Sunday-school; for the white
Kerristian, who is to sing hymns and swap harps
with him in the sweet by-and-bye, won’t touch
his colored brethren with a 40ft. pole even on the
blessed Sawbath.
» * * *
A charitable lady, through a Melb. city
missionary, gave a poor man last week a blanket
and rug for his swag. The poor man was arrested
by the police for having “ property reasonably
supposed to be stolen,” and spent three days in
gaol.
* * * *
Item from Melb. divorce suit: “In Feb.,
’95, the petitioner came home drunk . . . and
flogged me for half-an-hour with a horsewhip.”
And after that she spent the whole night in con-
flicts with the petitioner with a view to getting
her clothes-box off the verandah. What a con-
istitution that respondent must have had !
* * * *
The Presbytery of Sydney described Rev.
George Hay’s statement “ that he had to make a
living for his family ” as very low ground for a
minister of religion to take up, and immediately
after proceeded to amalgamate various congrega-
tions—so that, combined, they would be better
able to support their parsons than they now can
singly. Which latter seems to be Mr. Hay’s piece
of ground with a coat of paint on the fence.
* * * *
Melbourne is spreading itself for a luscious
breach-of-promise case, in which plaintiff is a
nurse and defendant a battered fragment of over
70, who was helped through a recent illness by the
lady. From nurse to nursery is a short shift.
What does the bad old duke in “ The Notorioiis
Mrs. Ebbsmith ” say about the nurses with their
black dresses and snowy bibs ? No single man
should ever place himself in the hands of a nurse
without first obtaining from her a formal legal
document to the effect that she will not hold him
responsible for any proposals he may make whilst
under her hands.
* * * *
Bread-and-butter weddings are coming
into vogue in Yic. Two people recently dis-
tinguished themselves, firstly, by having a full
account of their wedding published a week before
it took place, and, nextly, by giving a tea-and-
coffee strict-temperanee “ swarry ” at a swell pub.
after the ceremony. The stern, solemn visages of
tbe guests on leaving the festive board reminded
the bystanders of a body of shareholders in the
City of Melb. Bank.
**» - *
In Melbourne the other day a man went to
drown a dog in the Yarra. He went too.near, or
else took too violent a heave at the dog, and they
went in together. The dog promptly got out ; the
man was fished out with a boat hook two hours
later, and when his remains got home the dog was
already there drying himself before the fire.
♦ * * *
A Bulletin correspondent remarks, for
the benefit of the N.S.W. Minister of Justice,
that it is impolitic to allow colored men to execute
distress warrants. However, it’s not very likely
that much notice will be taken of such a small
complaint in a country where a noseless hangman
is among the tortures of the condemned.
• * * *
Melb.: “ ‘ Six-roomed double-fronted villa,
with massive bow window, the whole lot £25. ’
This I copy from the announcements of one of our
house jobbers for removal. Here is a relict of the
building society. Think over the laborious pay-
ments for a .£l5O house, now knocked down by
the house-knacker for £25 ! Thrift, Horatio !
The funeral baked meats of the Thrifty.”
* * * *
Those Sydney philanthropists, curiosity-
hunters and addled policemen who are accustomed
to walk right into and explore the residences of
local Chinese without warrant, or other proper
authority, will, it is whispered, receive an unex-
pected welcome one of these days or nights. The
'~ n unaman’s house is as much his castle as the Aus-
FEMININE COMPASSION.
TEACHER (to new scholar) : “Now. then, little girl, tell me what twice two are.”
NEW SCHOLAR (turning to her brother) : “ Tell him, ’Arry, ’e dunno.”
tralian’s ; and several Johns swear by Joss to make
that fact known “ welly soon.”
* * * *
A Hawthorn, Vie., publican was fined the
other day for selling better whisky than the brand
on the bottle indicated. It was a technical crime,
and it is hoped the lesson will not be lost on the
other publican guilty of the same offence—if he
still lives.
* • * *
A most flourishing industry in W.
Queensland is the vending of opium-charcoal to
aboriginals. There are Chows who have paid the
best part of £lOO in fines for the offence within a
year. The other day Ah Pow faced Clermont
bench and pleaded in palliation of his sin that it
was not genuine opium he had sold, but simply an
after-product. “ Chinaman smoke opium self,
then Sellee charcoal longa nigger. Allee same, my
' countlyman use’m tea first, then sell old leaf ’longa
Eulopean.” The truth of this latter statement is
probably beyond cavil, but it’s hard to get it
smacked in our faces like this by a pig-tailed
heathen.
A COOLGARDIE NOTE: INFRA DIG.
When making next-of-kin responsible for
the keep of indigent persons in Govt, institutions,
N.S.W. authorities should take occasion to coerce
in similar fashion employers who send sick ser-
vants to subsidised hospitals and infirmaries, to be
treated at public expense. Quite recently, a
highly-paid State official thus devolved on the
public the care and attendance of a servant girl,
and, on being remonstrated with, displayed
tremendous indignation.
* * * *
The latest case on a bulky Sydney list of
collectors for bogus charities, and bogus collectors
for real charities, serves to show how long the
swindle can be successfully worked. The other
day a man of many aliases got six months for
obtaining £1 by false pretences for “the Charity
Aid Society ” —which was also another name for
himself. He had been in the bogus-charity busi-
ness for three years, and had made over
say a steady £2 10s. per week. One of his dodges
was to get each subscriber in turn to initial his
subscription, and thus infuse confidence into the
next victim.
—■¥
The Lee-Metford rifles have practically
been discarded by the Chartered Co.’s forces,
being found defective in “ stopping ” power.
Annual report of Sydney C. of E. (Female)
Rescue Home (Lady Hampden “ patroness ”)
states that “ many applicants had, of late, to be
refused. ” More female than cash it pitifully seems.
Shot in the 22nd parallel a 16ft. carpet
snake covered with ticks (dozen to square inch).
Deceased was moving South rapidly with his
cargo and had neither been dipped, scoured, nor
scarified —in direct contravention of regulations.
Inspector Taylor, who lately visited the
dairy-farms about Camperdown (Vic.) district, re-
ported very adversely on several. His report was
sent to the shire councils of Hampden and Heytes-
bury. Like this: “ Pig-sty filthy, approaches to
cowyard ditto; yards in a foul state.” Again:
“I found several pieces of dirty rags in the cans ;
there was a bit of old tweed, part.of a petticoat,
an old scarf, &c.”
Time deals gently with the woman who
uses “Babeskin” soap. It softly removes the
tell-tale lines of the years, and renews the delicate
bloom of youth. One shilling packages of two
cakes. Washington H. Soul & Co., Pitt-street
and Parramatta.*
A N.S.W. up-country P.M., in hearing a
case wherein a man was accused of disturbing the
place by ringing a ferry-bell in the middle of the
night, settled the matter in characteristic fashion.
The defence was that accused, desiring to cross the
river in the night, only rang the bell often enough
to waken the ferryman. “ That won’t stand,”
vociferated the “binch” —“you wakened me up
with your awful row and I’m going to fine you.
Which he did.
CAUGHT.
I met a charming little Sin
Three nights agone ;
To share my soul, a saint-like shape
Sweet Sin put on.
She cast her meshes over me
In filmy fold,
Soft as a spider gossamer
Of fined gold.
And now for sake of one bright Sin,
So sweet and small,
My soul its liberty has lost
Beyond recall.
Lost without season to repent—
All hope is past;
I could not free me as I would—
Sin holds me fast!
Sydney.
ZADIG.


A sign of the times. Melb. Australasian
now gives two columns of church news in addition
to a column of sermon.
s. : “ The parsons blame the bicycles for
keeping people from the churches. I blame the
parsons. Church might often be endurable if it
were not for the clergymen.”
At Great Northern, near Rutherglen, Vic.,
was slaughtered, the other day, an ox which, when
skinned, was found to have 14 ribs on each side
being two more than cattle usually have. The
bullock was 2| years old and scaled 7901b5.
A N.S.W. railway-watchman caught a
humorous Chinaman going off with a load of iron
lutings. John explained to the magistrate that
as it was a cold night he was merely carrying
the iron to keepi himself warm.
Dear Bulletin,— What is the accepted
derivation of the term kite-flying, i.e., borrowing
money on paper security ? ' Siin Johnson, the
Chinese interpreter of Kwong Yick Wah Bo
told me, the other day, that Chinkie usurers have
a proverb ‘ When you are flying a large kite use
a very strong string.”—Yours, P.
And in the heat of a hand-to-hand fight
the British sailors, I fear, used bad language.” /
”V r • The toad of the snufflebuster is over parson
T itohett s Deeds that won the Empire,”in Melb
Argus several inches thick. Truly did Paui
ourget say that the Englishman was a curious
compound of filibuster and snufflebuster.
Hie Council of the Journalists’ lnstitute
met in Melbourne the other day after a long inter-
val of silence, and bewailed the want of interest
taken in. the dying concern. After which the
authorities solemnly recommended medicine as
before—the wiping off of all subscription-arrears
m the hope of galvanising their ill-fated bantling
into fresh existence. One member varied the pro-
ceedings by declaring that the Institute had been
run entirely in the interests of proprietors This
was an exaggerated statement, however. The
Institute may have crawled, or toddled, in the
interests of J>. Syme and others, but it can’t be
said to have run at any time during its rickettv
career. J
Julian Thomas, “The Vagabond,” is dead
at about 60 years, after a tempestuous career
Concerning his early days nothing is known for
sure ; but he is believed to have been a Virginian
and to have fought in the War of Secession. Cer-
tain it is that when he first reached Melbourne
say about 20 years ago, he was a man who had
seen many countries ; to the wide range of lands
and men over which he incidentally gossiped was
cue much of the charm of his memorable first con-
tributions to the Argus. “ The Vag. ” was essen-
ohemian ’ £ crie -rous and reckless ; he died
a bachelor Bohemian’s death in lonely lodgings
and, though long in a hopeless state of health’
maintained himself to the last by his pen. The
slenderly-remunerated task-work of his latter days
was awful advertising grubbery for such a man.
In recording the death of this brave-hearted cos-
mopolitan the “ big ” Melbourne papers illustrate
their littleness of spirit. The Argus gives you to
understand his career was ended when lie left
that shop, and chops short off the most fruitful
and useful, though, to be sure, not the most
dazzling years of his life. The Age is more
sensible, and notes his Argus deeds, carefully
abstaining from mention of the Argus. How either
paper would have shone by a generous touch !
“The Bushman's Song,” “Last Week”
ai rru P/Hight is Dying,” the three songs from
Ihe Man from Snowy River,” recently set to
music, are now having an enormous sale. They
may be had from Angus and Robertson, Sydney
ana all musicsellers. Post free, 2/2 each.*
As a refreshing addition to the bath on a
hot day, Scrubb’s Cloudy Ammonia is probably
unrivalled. It makes the morning' dip twice as
invigorating, and cleans the user more effectually
and more suddenly than anything else known
Also, it strengthens and brightens the hair, re-
lieves mosqipto bites, cleans jewellery and plate,
removes grease spots from clothes, restores the
color to carpets, and does many other valuable
household services.*
CYCLING LADIES will be
glad to know that at last they can
procure a pair of Gloves which do not
strain the fingers in the same way
that the ordinary shape does. This
novelty has been introduced by W. T.
WATERS & CO., of George and
King Streets, Sydney, who, we
understand, have already found a con-
siderable demand for them.
Second-hand furniture is now enormously
shipped from Melb. to Westralia.
3007
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
In Vic. Parliament, E. I). Williams (mem-
ber for Castlemaine) : “ We all know that Vic-
toria possesses magnificent resources.” Foster
Rogers: “ Except mental resources.’ Still, Vic-
toria possesses Rogers, which is something.
E AT AND DRINK.
TAKE NOTICE !
There are many kinds of everything; but only
one is
THE BEST OF ITS KIND.
BILLY TEA
IS the best tea
GRANUMA
IS THE BEST DIGESTIVE FOOD
DRINK AND EAT.
Unartistic “artists”— and Others: A Yell.
The notable thing about the second Exhibition
o f the N.S.W. Society of artists ’.is that
i isn t altogether an exhibition of Art.
t has 1(>9 objects in frames and out of
lern—mostly oleographs, photographs, daubs,
prettinesses and uninterestingnesses — which
aren t Art. Premier Reid is there: he is pink
and piggy—-but he isn’t Art. There is no title to
his alleged portrait, and no name would suit it but
Georgey Porgey Puddeney Pie. Little Eva is
" * e ’ dying in the limelight, with her agonised
mother or aulit or grandmother praying by—but
neither Little Eva nor her weary old grand-
mother is Art. There is a flaccid girl in a
greenery-yallery gown gazing over a greenery-
iluery sea—-she isn’t Art either. There are light-
hlue splotches with dark-blue splotchy variations ;
and big red dabs sprinkled with a lot of little
yellow dabs ; and rainbows chopped up into small
pieces and stuck on a canvasall which are
mgvdy curious and amusing, but certainly are not
* * • »
It is a lot easier to say what isn’t Art than to
say what Art is. Zangwill, who is a neat and
acute critic, calls Art “ an Artist’s reaction to
the stimulus of the universe.” Which is
acute and neat—and begs the question by
kindly passing the difficulty to the Artist. What
is an Artist. 1 ' Obviously, an Artist is a person
whose reaction to the stimulus of the,; uni verse is
Art—and there you are back in the old hole again !
i he Bulletin’s definition of Art is “Man’s
idealisation of Nature’’-which it likes a
ittle better because specifying a little more
the character and quality of the Artist’s
leaction, while it candidly admits that the
hole and you are still in statu. You oan
! ,n b R e t out by staying in — bv assum-
ing that according to the current standard of taste
of more-or-less intelligent people Art should be
true, or it should be beautiful, or it should be
moving, or stimulating, or suggestive, or all com-
bined ; and whatever it be, it should represent
not merely the thing that is, but the thing that
plight be. Art, that is, should not merely copy
i ature, but should refine and spiritualise it,
elevate it-as an Artist can. So that here comes
another defimtion-Art is Nature raised to the
Alanth power—Nature glorified and raised to her
hifthest expression by the spark of divinity in the
human mind.
* * * *
This reads nice and obscure and metaphysical
(as is surely appropriate), and it is to be hoped
brings the reader a little nearer comprehension of
the point desired to be reached-which is that the
Society of artists, as a body, don’t elevate their
themes. And they mast, according to The Bul-
letin 8 assumption, in order to be Artists There
seems to be an impression in “artistic” circles
that Art is mechanical dexterity— correct draw-
mg good coloring nice composition, and so on.
iNot a bit of it : these things are only the clothes
hung on the dressmaker’s dummy, the “ Art ”
is the pretty woman who wears them. They are
dead ; they appeal to the eye with a certain deco-
iati\ e value; but the essence of Art is its appeal
18 w hy Longstaff’s “Lady in
f . 1S0n e of the most Artistic pictures in the
exhibition The “lady” is like a real, living
woman : she smiles at you, claims your attention •
you want_i o know her and have her with you' '
bho is inevitable,” too-right just as she is
color and dress and all-you would not have her
otherwise: the little bunch of violets is just what
she ought to carry-the red flower which the
average artist ” would have put in her hand
would spoil her. And it is not sex-appeal which
produces the effect: it is the artist’s handling of
his theme To be sure, technical dexterity is ne-
cessary to him, but it plays a small part compara-
tively in the Art of the result.
* * * *
Longstaff gets an advantage from his size,
of course : a good big picture is more impressive
than a good little picture. There is a charm
Lh?” ed t? - hlS ? J V A \ ? ulIer ’ s “Tambourine
UirJ. It is natural and human and true • the
eyes ha,ve a soul behind them. Most of the por-
traits in the exhibition have no souls behind
their eyes: there are old gentlemen and old
laches—some well-painted, some ill-but hardly
a ?7 °* i , lem ave real Artistic worth. One
old gentleman, as presented, has precisely the
same mental value as another old gentleman-i.e.
no value at all. Exceptions are Julian Ashton’s
Bush Poet —who has really some thought and
suggestuon in him, and is cleverly painted to
boot, and Tom Roberts fine, strong, “round”
portrait of a self-reliant-looking old squatter.
Clever is generally the word for Julian Ash-
ton ; but you can t do anything Artistically with
some of his pictures. “ The Smiling Maid ’’might
be one of two just now hanging to a drunken sailor
opposite The Bulletin office, and that is all the
use oi her.
* * * ,
“ TL L ?rr £ 300 for his ambitious picture,
1 he Death of Burke. Its ambition is a good
point about it: The Bulletin wants Australian
artists to try and handle grand themes grandly
instead of pettifogging over flowc'r-panels and
pot-boilers; but there isn’t -£300 wortti of art in
The Death of Burke.” It isn’t “ The Death of
Burke. Doubtless, Burke’s death was utterly
unlike anything that A. Loureiro or anybody
else can conceive; but the present writer
complains because the artist hasn’t realised its
conception (which is arbitrary and dogmatic, of
course; but a critic in the last resort can be
nothing else but an arbitrary dogmatist :
ins relative value depends entirely on the
capacity with which he expresses tlie ideas of
other arbitrary dogmatists of a certain relative
intellectual status ; and if the artist objects—well
his objection is just as arbitrary and dogmatic)!
So it is averred that “The Death of Burke” is
too pink.and poetical; that his billy is too big for
him, and his misery too small; that there are no
points about Burke to distinguish him from
Brown, or Jones, or Robinson ; and though there
are some strength and pathos in the watching figure
(omitting the legs), the whole picture has not the
strength and pathos of Gordon’s word-picture
which you can buy (with much other strength and
pathos given in) for ,£299 17s. 6d. less than Mr
Loureiro s picture would cost you ;-and so
on. Nevertheless, this scribe doesn’t want
to dishearten Mr. Loureiro (is it possible for
Ihe Bulletin to dishearten an “ artist ”’)•
it looked a long time at his picture!
and then it came back and looked again •
and it A. Loureiro to brood a little more
over his conception, and get a little more sand-
waste and desolation into his soul, and sacrifice
pink poetry to tragic force, and come back next
year with a forbidding “Death of Leichhardt ’
which shall smirch your marrow while you are
still mounting the staircase.
* * * *
Alice Muskett shows a number of little canvases
—neat, clean, clever canvases, with little Art in
them so far. In the study of “Violets and Old
Letters,” the violets seem tangled up with the old
letters, and, anyway, there is no poetry in th e
presentation of them. Now, all the poetry of th e
universe can be put into one violet—and, plus one
old letter the universe really isn’t big enough to
contain the crowding thoughts of amourtcndre and
auld lang syne and the days upon the Suwanee
river. We can get something of this poetry into
the Literature of violets and old letters : why can’t
Alice Muskett get it into the Art? Your
■ W 'mi s ar easil y satisfied nowadays. Here
is Hall Thorpe, for example, who has painted a
back view of a girl by moonlight. There is no-
thing in life more attractive than the back view of
a girl by moonlight (her front view generally
spoils it), and there is certainly three guineas’
i, ml suggestion in the picture; but
u ij fhorpe is an Artist (notan “artist”) he
should have exhausted all the possibilities of his
subject instead of merely suggesting one or two of
them. r J he girl should be there : Hall Thorpe has
only given an imperfect 9-inches-by-5 hint of the
girl who might be there. And in the vicinity
are many pictures which, if they claimed to be
Literature, would be regarded as possessing “no
particular novelty or interest.” Some of them
are flat, mechanical copies of Nature—photo-
graphs plus color which often doesn’t im-
prove the photograph; others are crude, raw
impiessions (another name for lazy - man’s
jvork) which help to give the Exhibition its half-
baked look; some, like F. A. FullePs “French
Peasant,” have a certain .historical or sociological
value, as supplying an image of what that particu-
lar kind of creature has been or is ; but none of
them has Art. And what shall it profit an
artist if he gain the whole world of technical
tricks, and lose his own Art—his message his
power to elevate his theme, to heighten the
human ideal ? It is like losing, for the sake of
mere life, the things which make Life worth
living.
• * * *
a ,Bulletin has a lot more to say about the
Artists show, and may, perhaps, say some of it
next week.
At Poverty Point.
Scot Inglis, in private, is Mr. Whalley, brother of the
proprietors of the Nortucote Leader, Alelb.
Mahlstick : “Miss Maxine Elliot is a unique combina-
tion of the classic and the luscious, the statuesque and
desire-ful, the flower and the fruit.”
Cinematograph booms at Melb. Opera House. It proves
to be as life-like as was promised. The view of the heavy
surf running on tlie beach is perhaps the most popular ;
ail uncanny effect is the realism of the scene produced
without the roar of waves.
Maxine Elliott’s arm is much less massive than the limb
that Edith Crane puts forth like a semaphore.
Blanche Walsh, who has started back for ’Murka with
iirT « 6r ’ Was en * : * }o Nat Goodwin by the original
I nlby management, and he paid her a larger salary
than his former leading ladies had usually received. Miss
• W. s papa being a senator the family is more or less in-
liuential,*%heref9t,e some American press comments on the
return of papa’s daughter are likely to ensue.
It is said of one theatrical management (on tour) that
the utility actor gets rather better paylhan the business
representative in front of the house, who handles the
cash. A man in front is generally supposed to draw 75
per cent, of Ins wage for his honestv, which, in some oases,
entails a severe mental strain. The balance is recom-
pense for the labor of dodging around and buttonholing
the press.
Potter revive “Hero and Leander”
with 1 Cavalleria ” to fill out the programme ? Scot
Inglis would do well as the priest in “ H. and L. ” a
Character which the unemotional Sass reduced to a mere
walking gentleman. The pretty little play was appreci-
ated in Melb when Mrs. P. tried it six'years ago, and
might have been a big success if backed up by a curtain-
raiser. People objected that there wasn’t enough of It
tor a full evening’s entertainment.
Not improbable that “Joseph of Canaan” may be
staged in the Isle of Man, whither the hand of the British
licensee of plays stretches not.
11 r!,! 16 JY' nn * s equipping an entirely new co. in London for
lhe Prisoner of Zenda” and “ The Sign of the Cross.”
Australian mummers are so pleased that they want to
fall on the form's neck—and break it in four places.
Apropos Melb. Opera House cinematograph. En-
gineering-demonstrator Mann, of Melb. University, has
had one working in his laboratory this last 18 months,
and it works ever so much better than Hertz’s, because
Mann quite understands such things.
.Tj l ® .cinematograph (life is too short for a name like
that) is the best feature of Carl Hertz’s show at Melb.
Opera House, but there is not enough of it. About ten
pictures are shown, the figures in some of them marvel-'
° o A. ci" - e ln . action, but rather spasmodic in others,
and the film is evidently much the worse for wear. The per-
fected cinematograph (if its name is condensed) must quite
wipe out the niag'ic-lantern and ail similar devices. Even
SU^e * sts a , s a cerfcain t'.v the theatre of 1900, wherein
the fat, comfortable, placid audience is sitting watching
, }? Buli goring blacks in South Africa, or the progress
of the latest war, and hearing the booming of the cannon
and the shrieks of the wounded, as photographed and
phonographed on the spot.
JheAßG.is always gives lengthy criticisms to fashion-
able Melb. amateur theatrical performances, and discovers
much wonderful talent amongst the scented johnnies and
swagger damsels who amble and gambol in lig’ht comedy
comic opera, and reincarnated classics. The ability attri-
buted to the young ladies and gentlemen appears to an
outsider to be usually in proportion to the length of the
parental stocking, (the original meaning of talent was
hard cash) A recent performance of “ The Parvenu ” at,
•mi’ aronet Clarke’s family mansion, discovered
gilded amateurs who are eqCial to Miss Romer, Brough
and Ward, and one who is rather better than Pattie
Browne at her best. The Argus implies that it is a public
misfortune that these people have not to earn their
living on the stage, but the writer (affected with a bad
fiver), who has seen them, knows that the poor have some
occasion to be grateful for the wealth of their neighbors.
Jenkins : “ The Brasseys are not squeamish. Why
should they taboo the singer any more than the actress ?”
Departed circus-man Wirth once took Melb. Alexandra
lheatre for a special holiday night. A dispute arose as to
whether the Salvationists had not taken it. The differ-
ono L n W £l spli A\■ The Salvation meeting was held from 7to
J.JO. then Mirth fetched in his horses and had a full
show up t,o midnight.
l’rat the Slap : “ We had the news, must have been last
year of circus-man Wirth having died in Africa. Perhaps
a brother. The Mirth was a poor, dismal clcwi but a
sharpish business man, stewed from infancy in circus
gravy. Amazing the family stuck so long together with
such magnetic girls as Marizles and Madeline.”
Melbourne’s Jewish fraternity has shifted its clannish
enthusiasm from Ju.iet M’ray to Topsy Cohn, who is
younger and plumper than Juliet, and a much better
singer. At a recent concert in aid of a Hebrew some-
thing or other Miss Cohn was encored four times in sue-
cession.
A Melb. suburban church bazaar boldly competes with
the other amusements by getting out showy window-
cards displaying a short-kilted fema'e in five colors the
same being distributed around pulpits, palaces, and pubs,
with equal prodigality. The potency of the feminine le"
is just beginning to be (openly) recognised bv the church
as a means of evangelisation.
The loveiy manche Walsh, of Nat Goodwin’s co., who
tignted (new verb) m “ Romeo’s First Love,” did not dis-
play her shapely limbs for the first time in that extraor-
dinary curtain-raiser, for,, like the rest of the co., she is
an enthusiastic cycliste, invariably riding in “ rational ”
costume.
Reuben lax is said to have an idea of returning to
Australia two years hence with an opera bouffe co. Fax
is the wise man of the “ Trilby ” crowd, and anythin" he
may do will be conducted on sound business principfes
probably by arrangement with the Firm.
„ Coming immediately after Nat Goodwin’s invasion the
Hip to Chinatown company is somewhat at a dis-
advantage in Melb. The monotony of ’Murkan accent
has begun to pall upon the city. The two plump warblers
in the new brigade talk so turribly like the slim walking
gentlemen of Goodwin’s detachment that, one heail
the lemaik, Why, they’re Americans ! ” uttered with
an unfavorable emphasis. Rail as they may against Eno--
hsh and Australian prejudice the fact remains that oilr
visitors chant-elocution isn’t natural, otherwise it couldn’t
be so easily linitated—passably imitated, anyway—by
Australians and Englishmen, who are unable to speak the
, sl ™P lest French or German sentences satisfactorily The
talk r F^isSt r A tt>iCkin^'-UP a French accent,' ««»'«
talk English in the Saxon strain, nevertheless they show
a preference for actors who can by getting their “ stars ”
from London There are various styles of Saxon accent
both male and female, in aB. and B. go. You get a mum
A T-‘7, c \ n ,n f? arK w °inen together, and though
I )?/™ * all clla nt in one key the cadence is the same
SKSSumbteT lf ° rthedefence t 0 -3’ in reply to this
Addaide Garrick Club-amateurs-hold the belt for
record attendance at Adelaide Royal. They played “ Our
Regiment Aug. 28 ; attendance : gallery, 15 • stalls in •
circle, 16. How many of them dead-heads? ’ ’ 6 ’
Charles Clark knows the soft spots of his audiences
His lecture on ( Cromwell concludes with a peroration fo
praise of the middle-classes,” whom he paints is the
possessors of all the virtues, the source of P all liberties
and the repository of all wisdom, sound judgment anri
ability. Of course Clark’s audiences, beinf s iburban
and bourgeois, cheer rapturously with a ring ol “ we are
" Clai ' k a
Violinist Alpress means to emerge from his self-imposed
retirement shortly Miss Lottie Hyam (Mrs. Percy Jones)
will assist him in the violin recital which he has in pre-
paration. Alpress is engaged in compiling a descriptive
programme with numerous musical illustrations. Miss
Millie Wynn will be the vocalist. s
Juncker’s opera, “ Romance of Corsica,” is being worked
at, and wiH be heard by the Sydney public before font
the libretto being by C. P. Pridham.
When Miss Bertha Rossow, the Vic. soprano won a
hundred-guinea piano as the first prize in a musical con
test in connection with the Music Trades ptmi.-? 01
(London) the adjudicators were Signor Denza and Signor
a^cSo* 1 " 1 u “ *•»*■*
Phil. Stuart, who owns up to 45 years of age, practically
runs his waxwork museum on a Humber, whfch h haa
Vic. western districts, the Winimera atfo
the S.E. of S A., going over the ground twice. Being
own agent, he first travels ahead to arrange
returns to the show' in time to gather thewit if,
door. Whilst at TanUuoola reoenfly Philip tuod brnd to
secure the famous tiger for his show, but couldn't get a
glimpse of the yellow monster, not even in his dreams.
Probably the local pub. had run out of Tantanoola Tiger
brand.
O/i dit that before the close of the year Amy Sherwin,
Henry Stockweil, and John Lemmone will visit Australia
professionally. The}' are at present members of Conby’s
concert party, visiting South Africa. Hugo Gorlitz, Amy’s
husband, is the musical director. Stockwell’s treacherous
vocal chords are reported to be on their best behaviour
again.
‘‘The Jester’s Song,” figuring in the Melb. window of
VV. H. Glen and Co., is taken from an unacted opera, by
two local men, Nesbitt and “R. K. Dei.” Apart from the
libretto, this lyrical reference to the liaison between
Guinevere and Sir Launcelot is vague and ill-suited to Die
concert-platform ; but the same collaborateurs have been
advised to publish one or two pretty little miinn rs from
another opera, which would go very well “on their own.”
Ricordi and Co. (Lon.) publish yet another of Tosti’s
ballads, words by the reliable Fred. Weatherly, entitled
‘Because of You.” The same composer ami verse-
spinner have turned out a dozen previous works in the
same strain, but this particular love-laden song sho Id
survive them all. To any competent mezzo, wh > lias lost
her best boy and sighs for the hugs that are no more, Tub
Bulletin warmly, nay, hotly, recommends “ Because of
lou.’ The air is pretty, the accompaniment grant.id,
and the words—well, here’s a sample verse :
1 love the night so deep and tender,
The burning stars, the trancdd lue,
Because I come in sweet surrender,
Because 1 give myself to you ;
Because I feel your arms around me,
Because 1 see your dear eyes shine,
Because I know that Love has crowned me,
And I am yours, and you are mine.
Hamilton Clarke (who conducted the V ic. Orchestra in
those good old days of gammon when Melb. was officially
stated to be musical) has been engaged to compose the
incidental music for Irving’s production of “Cymbeline.”
A group of London musical critics lately presented the
brothers de Reszke with a grovelsome address in token of
their Homage of Admiration and Gratitude “ Admira-
| 'on of brilliant talents, Gratitude for High Example and
the rare Delight of perfected Art.” This from journalist
to professional singers ! They couldn’t help it. Music o i
the brain is a demoralising disease.
Little Peiile.v, the original Charley’s Aunt, took such a
long holiday this summer that rumor reported him in-
sane driven inad by the monotony of performing the
same old pettieoated character part for several years in
succession. There was no foundation for the yarn. The
com than, it seems, relieved the monotony of hjinv olf
duty by forming another touring co. to take “Charley's
Aunt through the smaller provincial towns. The m'as-
cotte show is still going pretty strong in London.
George Rignold’s supporters in the original Melb. pro-
duction of “Called Back” were Kate BLhop, Frank
Cates, Brian Darley (the man with the hoar.-e voice), W.
G. Carey, Emily Fitzroy, young Hoyt, and old Hall. Of
which seven only Miss Bishop and Oates are left in Aus-
tralia, and there isn’t much of poor Cates left.
The American correspondent of a M L. paper sent this
notice aheadnf the “Trip to Chinatown ” Co. : “ Hoyt s
A Trip to Chinatown ’ Company leaves by this trip of
the Monowai, and opens at the Lyceum Theatre in
Sydney. After seeing this variety and specialty enter-
tainment joined together by a distinctly ‘ Fink Dominoes '
plot, it is difficult to believe there is much moriev in the
Australian venture. The play presents no 'original
feature, no great actor, actress, or singer, no life, hustle,
or animation ; and, with the exception, perhaps, of llarry
Conor, contains no artists above the level of the ordinary
stock companies of the colonial stage. ’
From a Bulletin man’s diary:—“Went to see the
c.farming Mrs. B. Potter—that astonishing wriggle with a
dab of red grease-paint atop-kind of sea-serpent by
sunset. Play School for Scandal”—Sheridan un-
acknowledged in advt. or programmes—apparently for
fear he’d attract some attention from said B.P.—who
impudently murders one of his best effects in order to
get her little jammy line in at the climax. Sheridan
exits Sir Peter with ‘I go—but I leave mv character
behind me ’—and the situation closes naturally and
forcibly. But Mrs. P: grins and minces to get the audi-
ence s attention, wriggles to the back of the set, and
interpolates a nasal anti-climax: ‘ S-hir P-heter, y-hou’d
b-hetter t-hake it w-hitb h-you.’ Ugh! She strikes me
as one of those confounded American prodigy children,
spoilt in their infancy, heads turned in their teens.”
Walter Bentley, after his frequent fiascos, fizzles, and
frosts, has bade adieu to the ghost that walked so un-
■ stably He is now teaching the amateur-actor johnnies
at Brisbane, and holds Govt, appointments in most of the
Schools of Art in Bananaland, which grateful country has
rewarded him with a free railway-pass. Walter does not
intend to open “ shop ” again. When leggy Gov. Larning-
ton made his first entry into Toowoomba the Shakespearian
mummer sat with him in the vice-regal chariot. Walter,
at this rate, will soon be reaching out for a knighthood.
George Rignold, recognising the saving disposition ot
lovely woman, employes Miss Gena Coppin as his trea-
surer and secretary. Miss Gena has a keen Coppini tor
the saxpences.
There are now three dramatic co.’s catering for Smell-
bournian suburbs. The “Commonwealth” system is in
vogue with them all, and the class of play is a shrieking,
howling, blood-soaked melodrama, cribbed and gathered
from every sensational production since Noah “ pi,ed up ”
ins mud-barge on the heights of Ararat.
Lawton the Boneman, in “ Chinatown,” is a reminder
of Billy West, an Australian variety-artist of a while ago.
Ail he had was a bone solo, but it carried him round the
gl >be.
Inasmuch as Lady Irving attended the Irving Baird
marriage, it goes sans saying that the knight and Ellen
Terry didn’t.
A strolling Melbourne musician boasts that he and mate
have cleared £l2OO in the last two years.
“ Trilby ” Crane has a sister whose voice is to paralyse
the world one day. Meanwhile, she is being iiiuo.oal.y
educated in ’Murka at Trilby’s expense.
An old Bulletin file has this verse on one of Mrs
Potter’s first Australian appearances :
“ A stagey sticking-out of arms,
A frequent faint, a feeble totter,
A voice which rather bores than charms,
A handsome gown -that’s Mrs. Potter.
Though seeming less the more she’s seen,
This compliment ’tis fair to pay her—
When Mrs. Potter plays Pauline
She is indeed a poor lean player.”
Mrs. B.P. doesn’t seem to have changed much in the last
half-dozen years. Neither, so far as she is concerned, does
Tiie Bulletin.
Z. : “The Brough Co. found the benefit of The Bulle-
tin up North. Thanks to that beastly paper Syiln.y
celebrities are ‘familiar in our mouths as househild
words’in the farthest Australian corner. It’s only the
man that travels who finds out The Bulletin’s force.”


THE LATEST PHOTOGRAPHIC BOOM.
LEADING AGENTS-
T i? POCKET KOPAK
NOT A PLAYTHING.
Price (loaded for Twelve Exposure*), 21s.
Takes a Picture 2 x 1J inches.
BAKER & ROUSE, Limited, 375 George Street, SYDNEY
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
H
PIN
»•»*
irii
i’Jihil
mm
%
mu mm
24
m
I'liiiiiiiiii'i
iiMllfil
<>)
&
*.l
‘l'd
'M^W
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GMM.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the Wnrfs
W BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Cardinal Moran will be 66 on Wednesday,
Sept. 16.
Agar Wynne may be Victoria’s next
Agent-General.
L. L. Smith has placed his huge foot in
W.A., where many young men don’t feel very
well just now.
“Jack” Want enjoys the unique distinc-
tion of having refused a Premiership and a
Supreme Court Judgeship before passing middle
age.
N.S.W. has never had a teetotal Premier,
and, according to a prominent politician, stands
no show of having one till the Labor-party gets
into power.
St. James’s Budget, by special permission,
gives a Rontgen of the Prince of Wales’ hand.
Honor Science ! The full hand—that of Baccarat
and Tranby Croft.
Victorian : “ Premier Turner is like the
man in Balzac’s ‘ Peau de Chagrin,’giving away
his life for his work. Do not let our Treasurer
become a Ballance. ”
Vite-veskited (Hebrew) Zox, M.P. (in
Vic. Assembly): “Some members have scruples
against wine. * Now, my antipathy is swine. But
I don’t compel others,” &c.
Be talk of James Smith seceding to the
Age. If it happens, then Marcus Clarke, Julian
Thomas, and James Smith will represent a re-
markable trio of Argus deserters.
People surmised that pastor Fitchett must
have penned “Deeds that Won the Empire,” in
the Argus, because they were so cracked up by
all the parsons—except the Wesleyan.
At a N.S.W. inland town, the other day,
there were six J.’sP. on the bench. The three
men reporters were all J.’sP., the C.P.S. was a
J.P., and so was every attorney at the table.
The proposal to memorialise Samuel
Marsden reminds old Sydneyites that the rev. ex-
blacksmith’s daughter became the wife of the
original Anthony Hordern. She visited England,
and died at sea when returning to Australia.
Aide-de-camp Lord Shaftesbury is not half
bad as an amateur actor. He has a trained tenor
voice, and a pretty good stage face, which isn’t
spoilt even by his aggressive teeth. Shaftesbury’s
celebrated grandfather is noted for his connection
with the Factory Acts ; the present Earl is more
likely to be celebrated for his Actory Facts.
The historical
Arthur O’Connor,
grandfather of the
present able, influ-
ential and ortho-
dox “Dick” O’-
Connor, of N.S.
Wales Bar, was,
in his day, the
leading Frenchi-
fied infidel of the
Irish revolution-
ary party. The
party consisted of
many religions,
and all of them
found Arthur a
thorn in their
sides.
N.S.W. Su-
preme Court bro-
thers Darley and
Stephen maintain
angrily - opposing
views on the Kil-
burn Sisters or-
ganisations. The
Woman again !
“ She shall divide
brother and bro-
ther,” prophesies
Swinburne. But
who ever saw two
N.S.W. Supreme
Court Judges
walking down-
street together?
Alex. Suther-
land, author of a
book of poems and
several school text
books, has long
been engaged up-
on a big philoso-
phical book now
almost ready to
hurl at the head
of the Cosmos.
The argument is
that physical caus-
ation is sufficient
to have produced
everythingthat is.
Sutherland, from
his picturesque
home under the
shadow of Mount
Martha, lays his
finger on his nose,
winks at the set-
ting sun, jeers at
the rising moon,
and puts out his
tongue at the
ocean, as he says
—“ Gahn ! I’ve
found you all
out.”
Vic. Public Service Board Morrah was
Gov. Latrobe’s first appointee to the local court
service. He is 63 years old, and like Howitt,
chairman of the board, who is 66, is youpg and fit
enough to rule and direct a service that men over
60 years old are not allowed to work in.
Bishop Cowie, of Maoriland, appears to
relieve the monotony of the Worrd with a little
gentle speculation. His carriage hovers sus-
piciously in front of the Stock Exchange, but as
he still goes on preaching against the gambling
sin, the prelate probably sticks to “ safe invest-
ments.”
Mooted in influential circles in Sydney
last week to testimonialise Dr. Jameson, the
Transvaal swashbuckler, and invite him, if he
desires to quit England, to take up his abode in
an Australian capital.
The glamor of colossal architectural
designs intoxicates N.S.W. Premiers. Parkes
adored his deadhouse, Dibbs his hospital, and
Reid wants to worship a palatial Parliament
House-cwm-exhibition.
There died in Adelaide Aug. 26 Shadrach
Ash, aged 96. He arrived in S.A. by the Lady
Mary Pelham (the second vessel to drop anchor in
local waters) 30th July, 1836, and was a newspaper-
runner up to his ninetieth year.
N.S.W. Protectionist leader Lyne pro-
fesses his willingness to meet Max Hirsch in
public fiscal debate. Lyne had better haul off.
The only Australian Protectionist ready enough
to take the floor against the experienced Hirsch is
Trenwith.
Mines-Minister Foster is about the most
oily and polite member of Vic. Government. He
cultivated his party manners in days of old, when
he ran a general store in Omeo, Gippsland, and sup-
plied the local belles with new spring bonnets
and butter.
Obit, aged 77 years, the old Penrith
(N.S.W.) identity, Thomas Smith, of the “Old
Red Gow ” inn, a hostelry well-known in the ante-
railway days. He was the father of Minister for
Mines Sydney Smith and “Tom ” Smith,” M.P.
for the Nepean.
“ There is a tide, ” &c. Had millionaire
Burdekin stuck to Parkes he would have got the
bauble for which he panted. The English authori-
ties are quite ready to distribute a few baronetcies
here and there among reputable Australian citi-
zens able to stand the racket.
The Clarence river (N.S.W.) has some
queer J’sP. One of them recently remarked from
the Bench that the conduct of a witness in a
certain case had been “a perfect enema to him.”
This is nearly as good as the remark of a notorious
personage employed in the Dean case : “ Counsel
on the other side may abuse me as much as he
likes : I don’t care for his epitaphs.”
The Launceston (Tas.) Telegraph - Stra-
chan 1110,000 libel - case has practically been
declared off. The paper has withdrawn the plea
of justification, and apologises in mitigation of
damages. The alleged libel was contained in an
article entitled “ A Modern Priapus. ” As plaintiff
marched all the way from Singapore to take
action, the affair will anyhow cost the paper much
money.
AN OLD-TIME ATHLETE.
This gentleman was, in the brave days of old, “a terrible goal-sneak.” Even
now he attends nearly every football match and barracks as loudly as
fatty degeneration will permit.
Sydney D.T. is never weary of reiterating
that Windeyer, ex-J., “is a man of particularly
strong force of character.” Which, without im-
plying any disrespect to his ex-Honor, might be
said of some of the very worst and most dangerous
criminals who have come before him.
Report has it that ex-Judge Windeyer is
also among the poets and has a little thing of his
own under the impartial eyes of “ home ” critics.
When a young man, dabbling in press work, he
wrung the withers of a halting muse with efforts
which Parkes then commended and used to be
prophetic about.
Thread-the-needle Peacock is, thusfar, one
of the few Vic. politicians unspoilt by success —he
still drinks discreetly and laughs immoderately
with the pals who knew him as a struggling
schoolmaster.
Is it a joke—or what ? On the facade, now
being built, of N.S.W. National Art Gallery are
inscribed, in large block - letters, “ Titian,”
“Giotto,” “Rubens,”and so on; but not one of
the great artists named is represented in the gal-
lery. Another freak of the immortal genius re-
sponsible for the Sydney Post-Office carvings ?
HAD MENDED HIS WAYS.
“ When the Sydney police raided Wong Cow’s
opium den yesterday they found hawkers’ baskets
of vegetables in every sleeping apartment.”
Daily paper.
MRS. FOGARTY: “ An ’ is it after slapin’ wid yer
cabbages ye are, y'ould yellow skin?”
JOHN WUN LUNG: “No, missee, me mallied —
now.”
The right man for the seat on N.S. Wales
Supreme Court Bench vacated by Judge Win-
deyer was, of course, ex-Speaker Barton, Q-p- 5
but then he happened to be of the wrong political
party. Mr. Cohen, the appointee, is a good man
so far as he goes, but he doesn’t go far enough. He
is of District Court stamp only, and his strict res-
Sectability and many admirable traits of character
on’t atone for his want of calibre. Mr. Cohen’s
appointment, while conciliating his powerful clan,
will emphasise the deplorable weakness of a bench
on which, so far as The Bulletin knows, there
does not sit a single man who ever said a wise
thing that wasn’t a platitude or a witty thing that
wasn’t a hideous pun. The present tendency of
N.S. W. Supreme Court Bench is to consist mainly
of pugs and Italian greyhounds instead of mastiffs.
Judge Windeyer’s official gallop has appar-
ently ended in a cul-de-sac —he has bruised himself
against a dead wall. All his life lie has been
accustomed to reach out for the pies on other
people’s plates. He grabbed the Attorney-
Generalship ; he grabbed a Judgeship; Dibbs
aborted his reach-out for the Chief Justiceship;
but Judge Ventosior at last clutched the long-
coveted Sydney University Chancellorship. Then
there remained but one prize—the Chief Justice-
ship, carrying with it the Lieutenant-Governorship.
But Chief Justice Darley’s life looks a good one-
just as good as Judge Windeyer’s, for the chief is
a strong man, of a strong race, who isn’t a glutton,
looks not on the wine when it is red, and keeps
his liver in order by long marches in the moun-
tains. It was useless to wait for Judge Darley’s
shoes ; besides, even if the Chief Justiceship were
vacant, Barton would have a better chance than
Windeyer with the average Ministry. And so
Judge Windeyer bethought himself of a Bis-
marckian scheme—he would leap over Darley’s
head as it were by.being appointed to the Privy
Council. It hasn’t yet come off.
From a London letter :—“ We see a funny
sight here nearly every morning in Battersea
Park—Lord Jersey on a bike. He lends a valu-
able note of red to the green surroundings, and is
always by himself.
Geo. P. Doolette, the ex-Adelaide tailor,
who has fattened on the Westralian boom, is to b«-
run by the English Liberal party at next election..
Which possibly means that he has, according ti-
the custom in such cases, disgorged =£lo,ooo to the
party funds. His marriage to Dr. Dale’s daughfe
will make him strong with the Nonconformists.
There is still hope for Pursy Chirnside
An early criticism of Disraeli by Bradlaugh.
recorded in the recently-published biography
of the latter: “ His waistcoats have beeu
brilliant, but his Parliamentary measures car-
not always successfully compare with ths
result of his tailor’s skill. ” Pursy’s case pre
cisely !
Habitue : “I have not seen noticed a
significant addition to the glass-case of relics,
at Melb. Public Library. This is a large parch-
ment donated by J. J. Walsh,_ who married
Johnny Eawkner’s widow. It is a. protest by
the Vic. Convention, headed by William Gray
and C. J. Don, against the Land Bill of 185?,
an outrageous thing which the Government
tried to force through in contempt of a petition
signed by 70,000. David Moore, the Land
Minister, is yet extant in Melb., but has long
subsided into a comfortable merchant,” ,
The just-deceased S.A. Commissionef
of Police, William John Peterswald, known
colloquially as Herr von Peterswald, was
about as pure-bred a mongrel—speaking etv
mologically and not disrespectfully—as you
could find anywhere. He was of German
strain, but his father was a British army
officer. Peterswald was born in Jamaica,
was schooled in Jersey (English Channel),
and married a French lady. So that, all
told, he was a Germano-Franco-Anglo-Wesfc-
indian compound. He was also a good fellow
—for a policeman; a Mason and bon-vivani,
with an odd splash of the gambler thrown in ;
one who knew how to find his “bowels of
compassion”; a strict martinet; an ex-cap-
tain of militia —he was a captain soon aftpr
he was a (legal) major; influence made hha
an inspector of police, and supposed merit
passed him up to the Commissionership. A
mighty big wig in Adelaide was he, but in-
variably spoken of with that jocular familiaritv
that passes as a sign of popularity. Age.
nearly 67 years ; Australian experience, nearly
44; commissionerdom, over 14 years, but he
was the real head boss of police before that.
“ Peter ” was one of the numerous clan of
educated hard-ups from England who joined
S.A. police force in the early days.
Among the most fervid promoters of the
new Sydney corps of “Australian Rifles” is Mr.
R. A. Price, M.L.A. He will be an officer, no
doubt. But let him take notice that Australia
can only stand one Colonel Price,
Surely the demise of Charles Dickens, jun..
was better worth cabling than the doings in Lord
Nozoo’s back kitchen. Not a word was known
about it here till the mail came in ; but Australia
was duly told by wire that Lord Borndrunk of
England had condescended to promise to marry
the gilded Australian girl.
H. : “Cable notes the death of William
Campbell. Possibly the last of the very first lint
of old Romans, as Victorian squatters, for he was
86. He had all the ideas to which Wentworth
gravitated—the establishment of a peerage based
on the land. Nothing modified the fine crusty
port of Campbell’s Toryism, the very bedroot
even of the Legislative Council. He and an en»
ployc first discovered Ballarat gold—they say.”
Good jokes improve with age. For in
stance, the joke published by The Bulletin soon
four years ago of Premier Munro’s
ing card. This historic pasteboard was ordered 6y
the eminent Melbourne financier in view of hi*
mission ’Ome as Agent-General for Vic.: —
Hon. James Munro, M.L.A. and J.P.,
President of the Real Estate Mortgage and Deposi :
Bank, him.
Chairman of the Melbourne Trust, Finance, <b Banking
Coy., him.
Vice-President of the Federal Bank of Australia, Lin ,
President of the Federal Building Society.
Chairman of the Grand Coffee Palace Co., Lim.
Address — *
Federal Bank,
18 King William St.,
London, E.C.
Judge Windeyer surely could not expecv
Premier Reid to extend his leave, and thus, by
provoking and giving opportunities for a bitte;
Parliamentary debate, bring down upon his (the
Premier’s) own head all the burning indignation
and sense of wrong which for years and years haw
been pent up in the public breast at the judicial
doings of Judge Mount Rennie. The grossness or
Mr. Windeyer’s bearing to G. H, Reid, the strug-
gling counsel who defended Abigail, will never fc
forgotten by anyone who witnessed it; and let it
here be said to the present Premier’s credit that hen
the only barrister, save E. P. Field, who ever pro-
perly faced-up W. C, Windeyer aforesaid in Ms
own court, and met the overbearing Judge’s boorist
rudeness with a sarcasm that made Baron Mouns
Rennie snort with rage. All things come to him
who waits. Lots of people besides the Right Hon
Baron Mount Rennie, P.C., picked up G. B.
Reid for a pug and found him to be a bull-pup.
+
“ I was afraid to send certain distinguishee
regiments to the front, in Egypt, because I had
no confidence in their leaders.” — Wolseley.
Pizzala v. Pizzala, London Divorce Court,
has just educed a momentous judgment. Th»
wife refused to live with her husband unless he
put away a mistress. She left him, and the Court
held that he had deserted her.
COHEN.
“ Mr. H. E. Cohen has been appointed a Judge of
N.S.W. Supreme Court in succession to Mr. Justice
Windeyer.”
It is Cohen, as you know,
Owns the three suspended balls ;
It is Cohen booms a show,
Boxes, circle and the stalls;
Ask the cabbies on the ranks,
It is Cohen who conducts ;
It is Cohen runs the banks,
It is Cohen reconstructs ;
It is Cohen takes the medal
At sassiety’s best flop ;
It is Cohen files his “ sheddle,”
Pays a “fink ” and comes out top ;
Twangs a “Ten-to-one, bar one ”?
It is through a Cohen nose ;
It is “ Cohen, cohen, co’n ! ”
When your furniture all goes ;
Cohen rules the “ ’Change ” and stocks;
Cohen scents the “ wild-cat” stench ;
Cohen’s in the witness-box;
Cohen’s on the Judgment Bench !
To his death and from his birth,
Cohen rules the blessed earth.
DIPSO.


WHO OWNS MELBOURNE ?
A ■■ TALL • AMERICAN CLAIM.
It appears one of them, '“Johnnip” Lincoln
by name, has made: a will leaving the city of
Melbourne— “ the metropolis of the antipodes ’
—to his heirs and assigns, along with “ the
whole site of the interior town of Mudgee,”
J , TZT
1 ~ •s'm i-ironcL erlll y, I
mate f Aay'fto.
frteece <VA<* j? ot ,
"tAe/t~ ai~if al/clcljJ- (,
/ .
' r *fc
‘ l * l/ '
ft ec *Ge/.z-i.l "JAarT. one
°/- tier's Sei-monS?'
-p IN NER
The Kev. Dp Bevan, who was then called
upon, said he had attended the gathering
'because he was very anxious to lasten Ins
•flag to the mast.
THE AGENT-GENERAL’S
OFFICE.
MR. GILLIES’S TERM NOT TO" BE
EXTENDED.
//4e/-e ?s
// i+tfe* tn Aar-maKc?
" — £ess//b.
o f-
flfe./h o -u-l-71 £
l/V(7e^v'/ew r €(i .
) fit i. triferi* 1 *
PRESBYTERIANISM UP TO
DATE.
THE REV. W S. MACQUEEN AND
HIS ORCHESTRA.
MR. SIMON MORRISON’S
OBJECTIONS.
DISCUSSION IN THE ~
ijR L LW/\RT PRESBYTERY.
J . needs Almighty
fl ? h »‘ » P‘ Ulu ' tcm.dj-. And is that not
what, the very church oi God is saying to-dav
The masses—the squirming, wretched, howlingg;
masses—fiddle to them, oh, finale to them • get im P
music for them, get up popular entertainments lor §
them. Cast out ,the devil with the fiddle Well if
he can be cast out with the fiddle, I am taking a -
wrong plan. -
_ TPe* J- M'Neill.
y/rfe'B a?}cn-at~ sTone /tiAcr~ ? -// /*/ •
Cfzi*.roA- t Aeit ?7£>/- yje Z>e7-> l 'Z t£%£% #•
MELBOURNI ANA.


/fa*
**- **" ?*>*■* *"*■*& *“**/ *>
J/ »v**XT
/ 1/ ?4/ o^'tj4J(**i'C4f£c4^
’ A CYCLING GRIEVANCE.
DEPUTATION TO THE MAYOR.
A deputation, consisting of Messrs. T. Hassall
(president of the New South Wales League of
Wheelmen), Hawley, Dowal, and .Cusaclc (the lat-
ter two representing Messrs. Bennett and Wood),
waited upon the Mayor (Alderman I. E. Ives)
yesterday on .behalf of the League of
Wheelmen, for’ the purpose of protest-
ing against the excessive «vatg!ring_ of
(the streets of the city. I* ' ~—-~T
«*V f *G~+ »*o
ytasif- <«. 74*. .
sfl't/'tSiy ‘Z-trwS / *u^j7
/r~47<jC j? aZ* 74- ttuTca-^'
CtJl/y tLO 7t Of£/>
/ s 77 cCd 777
?y&-#7L*y v^>.
Proposed Proprietary
Residental Ladies’ Club
and Salon.
be hel.s aftheTown Hall,
on Monday, 7th September at 3.30 p.m. Lady
Darley will preside. The locality of the Clu
House will be decided by the Meeting. You are
ispecially ashed to bring a fnend
\no Reporters^
-£> cr-KJZ. 7t<m. ■ y/^~
?T<J>SLf'u*yt
tit*
AdU. y'
ye&t£ /Aju*-frusvty
■/ 7yilC 6*- / TcT
‘fo.-tuu.yTk.&wf
?faL7£afs
J >6- **" e&*.
*■**■?'
&jy&/&*«■
A-t""
S-bt c-hrs
/OfucofcAJ tb&Ji Xj Jwfi+rU-
£y»~<*/>*y“y 77u^
a»y6 *^s
~XrX+
x wv**-
fey*
yX«y - y . >, .
cf~(_ y~~ — L /
THE LADIES’ CLUB, AND OTHER MATTERS.


HERCULES SHIRT.
i POST FK EE to any part of the colonies.
Sample Shirt on receipt of P. 0.0., 7/- ; or 3;> - Half-doz.
Strongly recommended for station wear ; is very durable
and unshrinkable; fitted with treble collar clips State
height, chest measure, and size of collar usuall'v worn
Write for sample. PIKK BKOH., Brisbane ’
“How’s Tour Liver?
In the comic opera of “The Mikado,” His Im-
perial Highness says :
“ To makej to some extent,
Each evil Liver
A running; river
Of harmless merriment.”
tasb than making evil livers rivers of
Wiew memment, no person, king, or layman
con d take upon himself. The liver among the
ancients was considered the source of all a man’s
pulses, and the chances are ten to one to-day
conw T S 'ulu an ,. condition of dis-
* WOuld be bad P ollc y to contradict that
ptji oon.
nnirv 10 '^ S A yOUr livei 7” is equivalent to the en-
qun-y Are you a bear or an angel to-day?”
hrnHvm hS ° f pure , u £ liness > curtain lectures,
, • y oxvs, not to speak of the crimes and calami-
■“f’ f are f Promoted by the irritating effect of the
inactivity of the liver upon the brain. Fothergill
the great specialist, says this, and he knows. He
knows that to prevent such catastrophes no-
thing equals Warner’s Safe Cure, renowned
throughout the world as a maker of ’_ ienownea
“ Each evil liver
A running river
Of harmless merriment.”
by the use of Warner’s ‘Safe ’ Cure. Some two
ag ° 1 Suffered ver y much from my
h g r ave me a great am ount of pain and
™S* d , m « (or my usual duties. I was recom-
mended to take plenty of outdoor exercise, but as
ir t S t ° mg 80 1 thou - ht it would take
more than that to cure me, and, hearing so much
ewes* n ] V r rner s S , af . e ’ Cur e and the wonderful
cures of liver-complaints it had effected, I made
and m umu n ll? gl V ?, lt T a ("a 1 - I procured a bottle,
and, upon taking it, I felt wonderfully relieved
which made me continue it till I waJ perfectly
cured, and I have not had a return of my trouble
this e 'merl“ ?ed tbat * was gratified at what
it me t e had effected, in so short a space of
W,; g , Very ° ld resident of Rush worth, I
mred with g th many people here who have been
mend t h medlcine ’ and will always recom-
W ,LL,A M FLEMING,
-MERCHANT-
-24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to Arrive—
band saw mills,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
PORTABLE and SEMI-PORTABLE
_ENGINES and BOILERS
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
t STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
cm FLE IVII IM(Vj=; RELIABLE BUGGIES
ivicoY HARNESS, „c
Catalogue on application.
fluid sheep dip
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE” .
„° r ' U , r ' her >artrculars apply t o “r
MORRIS, LITTLE & SON LTD.
ONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOTONE '*
Or the following Agents—
STANLEY GRIFFITHS, Hunter Street, Sydney; GOLDSBRGUGH, MORT & on tm at tv, , 0 ,
Geelong; P. LEARMONTH & CO.. Hamilton- A HARRAP it SOW OO. Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney; JAMES M‘EWANr & nr\ i
8.A, QUEENSLAND MEHCAKIXU. CO. LIA, !**«., Co!, SSSS4 Sk * §«.
POLITICAL
POINTS
hS S-A°„ f A ?ril^ e Vio - L —
other party-leader ; erery
Vic. ex-Premier Shiels proves from Yankee
drSL"‘i“ ,S ‘ iCS ° h “* dri “'< d ™™»K
of $® famrers “d Plenty
JSSr'icS: .tfsr
intervenes between them and Turkey ° P6
A point in “bias ” law. Is an Orange or
a e S< in 1 vvS ge -fh OD “ Pe f te *u t to ad J u dicate if any
= :» 0f ‘ h * is an Orang^
siasr* -&&&&
Two new planks of the Victorian Labor-
] latform are the establishment of an old-age-
pension fund and the State control of fire and life
coming 06 bu “ ne88 - And both reforms am
La , b a- r r ( lcmber ‘ s should loan out
all the party politics they’ve got until they get the
camels dum v Having already swallowed several
sciences." neednt worry their con-
, J - D - : “ T he Melbourne Canon’s sneer
wbJf D< f f '? c ’ raoy and Woman Suffrage is only
what might be expected. A man judges of the Gt
women IK ££ by the -tehecfuality of tt
l,iS V f ide , n n fcly lv At r 0rney ‘ General Want stipu-
lated for the offer °f the vacant N.S.W. Judgeshin
and the Govt, stipulated that he should refuse it’
to «
thoT he obj 'f, cfc the parson-written “Deeds
that won the Empire,” in the Akgus, is appar-
ently to stimulate war with France. HowAhe
li®yfa t heworid! Whi0h H * h « »® -
Tas. Assembly, by 19 votes to 7, altered
claeZ? th?tw »ssr^*®s5Ss
to"Se'.^ m ***** ■“«
After all, the British Govt, has cashiered
Jameson s officers from the Imperial army, which
is more than most other Govts, would have done
under the ones. The Czar, for instancel wouW
have made generals of the whole crowd.
M ‘ Millan’s adage : The influences which
and the senaS 10 w® f™ th ® pulpit > the Platform,
S bar’ancCthe 3Z&T SfflKK
and the ? 16 ° ateh be: The pulpit -
The way in which the N.S.W. daily press
has all along burked the case against JudgeVin-
deyer is unspeakably disgraceful. The Bulletin
recommends every ertizen interested in the im-
partial administration of justice to read the
current issue of Hansard. the
A Bill now before Maoriland Parliament
panics r a «? t f te aildit . of a11 registered com-
pames and a State valuation of their securities
sIhh w rU I 1 by a Private member, Premier
toAli£? g ! 0C l V ° tin " for the Volition of
tne totaiisator to take the matter up.
An anomaly of N.S.W. politics: Govt.
Yet P in r fi W ? £3 !!° + i a yea r, Opposition whip nilf
Yet m fact and theory the work is equal. O.
course Ministers pay their whip, but the party in
opposition should take some way of showing that
(heir laborer is also worthy of his hire. 8
What is the world coming to? Squatter
atuart Reid, at a meeting of Camperdown (Vic 1
branch of the National Ass: “I cannot help
t k } D A fc i a f eat deaI of “ischief isbein|
CroatCd lw Ih p lu ’ a V - 0t f- 4 wron g impression is
wnnWtiof h u P| mci Ple, and, so far as I can see, it
would be far better to have it abolished. ”
I remier Kingston, in his sweeping law-
loform proposals, stands in much the same posi-
tion as Robert Torrens when the latter carried his
Real Property Bill through S.A. Legllature
Kingston glories in the fact that not a single
iTSSelT S,de ' the Homburg
Ihe Argus reviles Turner’s financial policy
§ 375 ’ 00 ? f »r public works as an at-
in3L t0 do posterity. “ Formerly,” says the
wo l f 3 OI 'P n ’ «!i be Question was, what can
we do for posterity ? ” This, from the backer of
the spendthrift Gillies who borrowed ,£1.3,000 000
inside five years, is simply magnificent. ’
N.S.W. Conservative press will soon be
m1bL arg b Umg b f ° r th( ; abolition of the special
il1 ri fr1 nt u ry u ralnS Y t le ldea being that only for
m4 !a tlde home, Labor members would, like
drastic 1< j aVe pe ? lasfc ordin ary tram, and
dfa 104 amendments made in the small
more f th0 m ° rnlng would thli s be heard of no
„ J^T tMy Payments to Yic. village-settlers
come to something like <£30,000 a year .£57 500
has already been thus paid aWay, and the results
h mosfcof C ff on +Vf re mainly mud and offering!
“ osfc ° f the settlers are several days from anv-
Metnwhut are com paratively inaccessible.
TOnwtute, Melbourne is hemmed with great
° f Practically-idle lands. Half the monev
land fn d a Tf/ m d ° les would have served to provide
land for settlement within the odor of Smellvllle?
Dear Bulletin,—Only a very
few Queenslanders are responsible for
having Premier Hugh Nelson in Parlia-
ment at all. He was returned mostly
by the station - vote where men are
tviw vote against the boss. The
ballot does not protect them; or if it
does they do not think so-for good
reasons, probably. Out of 14 polling
places, nearly all are stations. Two
places, Goondmindi and Toowoomba,
ar ® t^le electorate altogether;
yet both were polling-places where ID
property-votes were registered for Nel-
onlv aI T t n ? lle represents
only 298 votes. In fact, Nelson has
fewer votes than any other man in the
Q. legislature.— H.S.R.
Christchurch (M.L.) Truth *
advances the very latest Fat Man argu-
ment against the proposal to limit in-
terest to 8 per cent. It points out that
supposing a man is run in, and wants
to borrow the money for bail, and sup-
posing some one is willing to lend it at
per cent., then the law making all
interest above 8 per cent, illegal will
pre vent that unfortunate person getting
bail at all Against this, however, has
?? P e .P ufc t “ e equally convincing feet
that if usury is not restricted some
woman who hves up two flights of stairs
may borrow money on her furniture
at 40 per cent, whereas she can only
pay 10, and the furniture may be seized
for the difference, and in getting it
downstairs the chest of drawers may
grow unmanageable and fall on a per-
fect stranger who is looking up to see
feHlW he tk 18 abou > and s T lash him
case’ There are two Sldes *0 every
The Age followed the recent Victorian
Legislative Council elections with a smart bit-
bl wW did U t n^ the U £ per
out why did D. Syme allow the strong and
a few months to
s s-sass? off for *“•
T l ie X me ' growers of Corowa (N.S.W )
brandv dut^ of . ss ' P» gallon on local
bv S; Ah J°?f b® er and wine are already protected
by differential duties, it is difficult to see how the
hMnH rade can refuse similar aid to the
brandy crowd. It is also difficult to see how they
can grant it, seeing that they are “agin ” all kinds
of Protection; but as they swallowed their prin-
agafn. m beer and wine matter ths y may do so
RONTGEN RAYS ON NEW HOARDING IN FRONT OF SYDNEY BENEVOLENT
ASYLUM
(Placed there to hide the poor wretches receiving alms.)
One of the most useful officials of Federated
Australia wiH be the statistician of the Federation.
Who that compares facts Australian has not
suffered from the blight of the present divided
molds, with diverse methods of arrangement and
dissimilar bases of computation ? Give us, O poli-
time , cheap ' ]acks > a Fed eral Statistician in our
Dear Bulletin, -Re the fact that saffron-
yellow was the old Hibernian national color, it’s
not generally known that the harp has only been
the Irish emblem since Henry VIII., after his
row with the Pope, substituted it on the Royal
Standard for the original “Three Crowns,” lest
these might be mistaken for the Triple Tiara of
the Papacy.—A. M.
l\e recent cavilling at parliamentary critic-
ises 0 — Judge ’ S utterances - Thus Higinbotham,
I do not believe that a charge from a Judge on the
Bench, so long as it is a purely judicial charge, ought to
be a subject Oi debate in a purely deliberative assembly.
, But ' *?° not think that Judges who address extra-
judicial and improper remarks from the Bench should
have their remarks preserved from criticism. If a
Supreme Court Judge deals with political questions, and
nolffir. f , orffets ?. nay, disgraces his office, as to consider
the Bench UeStl ° nS ’ h<2 should be aske d to descend from
■' The Sydney Daily Telegraph employed,
or used, or was used by, a contributor whom it
described as a banking-expert, and who spoiled
some half-dozen columns of valuable news-space
to prove that: “ The proposal for the establish-
ment of a State Bank should be opposed for the
following- reasons : —l, Because ;2, Because ;3,
Because ;4, Because; 5, Because ; 6, Because; 7,
Because; 8, Because ; 9, Because —it should be
opposed! ”
W. DAVISON , winner of the Hampden Wheel Race
([?]50). N.S.W. Wheelmen’s League .
Photo . by Kerry .
tt South Wales is still waiting for that
cheap loaf ” which doesn’t come. The price of
bread went up just at the beginning of the Free-
trade epoch, and though it was proved that the
new system must make it come down, it went up
2? 1 . 1 “ 1 . e \ ater on - Then it was conclusively
proved that free imports couldn’t but bring it
down, and thereupon it has remained up ever
since. p VOi
Vic. Legislative Council, a year ago, passed.
rJi°i n 5 anie V ict ° f j ts own which the Assembly
proof th’ a • e - Ve !, Sln , ce has held up this as a
Fu bfc ,s , ln dead earn est about reform, only
the other crowd blocks the way. One of the vro-
visions in this famous Bill was that, if any board
of directors or any set of managers or other officials
made false statements about the amount of the
paid-up capital, the company would be fined
heavily. The company is the shareholders, and if
the directors deceived them by lying statements
they were to be fined, in addition to the other
swindle, while the men who did the swindlees-
tSrVif^ the V • In i ltS ° Wn dull > way
the Vic. Council is a humorous institution. Y
On the same night of last week the Leg
Assemblies of Queensland, N.S.W., and Victoria
discussed the status and prospects of their Agent*
of e tw aL ffi he ? 01I ?° ldence forecasts the near death
of the office in its present shape. Dicken will
locum-tenens for Queensland, the veteran slnl
Samuel will slowly peter out, Gillies will hi
glowed to retire these are, si aflre"^
Gray, the Vic. M.P., offered im a
prayer for Parliament in Melb. Weslev rh.T-o,
the other Sunday. All along Vic TJL r r urck ;
has been opened with the Lord’s rea^h 11
the President. O’Shanassy, as a goodVathnr 7
?h»v,“rpK“ acd “ the fet go ° a - “
Premier Reid states baldly that NSW
youths at 4s. 6d ” Possiblv ng lerrl Wlt h
employes have -*g
Or possibly they were replaced by other men
already in the service, and it is these latter, and
not the individuals actually sacked, who were re-
pJaced by the four-and-sixpenny youths or men as
the case may be. There is nothing like absolute
accuracy. ”
Au te a S h . c °Py of a question asked by
jiing O Malley in the S.A. Assembly recently
crown Sn fufn 1 will ask the commissioner'of
crown lands, If the Government will set a part a small
U-act of land near AdeJaide for burial purposes *
be called the national cemetery, and free to all
except the expense of digging the graves
enabling broken-down politicians and other
financially exhausted individuals to be decently hurried
without ruination to their friends y Durned
The answer was “No.”
ver 115,000,000 articles (letters,
Frf C N e qw oOkS ’ u ne M ers > or cards ) were Posted
m N.S.W and 34,000,000 of these were news-
L ed gr l lS ' - Th « *? ratis newspapers were
3 5 mlhcms m ° re than in ’94, while the articles on
about* Post a ge i was paid showed a decrease of
liK millions. At this rate the time seems
likely to come when half the work of the post-
office will consist in carrying the newspaper-
th W e n F fl S i^° dS free i° f ° harge ’ andthus PaupeSg
SLt f and Putting the Telegraph pro-
SwSenT AyC. ™ h the patri " chs th «
N. : “The Melbourne unemployed are
cutting the ground from under their own feet,
si Herein at p wor f k widening the Yarra, on the south
the Si Govt House and entirely destroying
gers’ P for h fb? the S nday aftern oon ‘ red flag
and ’ tbo I,m , vacant space between the river
cmriate -dSL 18 & b . e OCCU P ied by a superb
that the <s lY + i ls , not to be supposed
ii j e Sabbath-unemployed orators will be
friend d n l^ m rr earshot T of the Monies of their
i l n uSS nCle r° m - In Hopetoun’s time, the
oitld’b'^r 68 r ! olc ® re P° r ted that one orator advo-
cated h urling lam into the Yarra. ”
The other night the attention of the God-
isTtnfSheST wasdra wn to the fact that beer
ls stm a heavily-protected industry in N.S.W
actSStohis ? eid was asked when he proposed to
Woi u * h / r eetrade Principles by putting the
local brown destroyer on the same footing a! the
aSS 6 ' T he eye-massed one mfrely in-
wdl bfi JLJ questioner was serious. Some day it
wdl be necessary to inquire why the God-fearing
Cabinet doesn’t put N.S.W. wine, now protected
T?JJr u Un u ? f s ? veral hundreds per cent, on a
4 reetrade basis also. Also, what’s the good of
having a Freetrade Ministry which doesn’t give
th S e b hinfer C f° n< d aCtS -° tJ ? e lowes t tenderer because
he higher tenderer is a local man—in other words
which protects the local contractor at the expense
of the community; In short, what is the good of
having a Freetrade Ministry which hafn’t the
courage to give the country Freetrade?
clear that, whether guilty of
not, bufheld, now serving ten years for aliened
assault on a Newcastle (N S.W.) servant-girl! was
windeyered at and after his trial. The stereo-
c^not a w ? r en f tthatth^ Cr ° wn Law authorities
verHGf wl / hoat De w evidence interfere with the
thetbl f a amounts to nothing,
cefvS , f the laW bein & th at an accused re-
ceives a dispassionate hearing at the hands of a


The very latest prescription for growing a
splendid mass of hair is not to wash the head for
two years. Apparently the great Gospel of Dirt is
coming into vogue again.
A late Q. Parliamentary return shows that
the leases of Barcaldine, Bimerah, Clar'e, Peak
Downs, and Wolfgang cover 983,080 acres, and
that the rent in 1890 came to =£1721165. Id., rising
until 1895, when it reached =£2ool Bs. lOd. That
is, the Government received a ha’penny an acre
for this vast territory in the last year and less for
the years preceding. When the expense of collect-
ing and other incidentals are deducted, Queens-
land would appear to be practically charging no
rent for an immense area of rolling-downs country.
The true story of a man from Somerset
(Eng.) with an English father and a Welsh mother.
He was in London and wanted to get out of it,
and, having no funds, he stowed away on a Maori-
land meat steamer. When he landed in Lyttleton
the captain gave him half-a-crown and said: I lie
Lord be good to you.”* The man from Zorner-
zet ” looked at the awful town of Lyttleton, at
the half-crown, and at a TJ.S.S. Co.’s boat with
the blue peter flying (and he was from Zomerzet,
mind you, and no Jew), and then walked up to the
biscuit-factory on the hill and asked : “ Yhere be
the maaster ? ” “ That’s me ! ” said a brisk-look-
ing man. “ Gimme two shillins’ worth o bis-
cuits.” “Oh, go to a shop—we only sell em
wholesale here." “ Thaat’s all right, Ibe goin’ to
zell ’em agen.” ‘‘ Oh, all right,” said the biscuit-
man—“give him 121 b. weight.” Then theZomer-
zet man hied him to a lolly-shop and bought six-
penn’orth of little paper-bags, and into each
paper-bag he put six biscuits. Then to the U. S. S.
Co.’s steamer, where he sold the lot for £5, at a
shilling a bag, as sure sea-sick-preventive biscuits.
And he was from England, look you, from Zomer-
zet; and now he is a capitalist such as the King-
dom of Maoriland is made of.
Hermes : “I saw an old woman staggering
up William-street, Sydney; the other day, when a
small boy kicked a little paper parcel into the
crossing and out flew a sandwich. A dog snapped
the meat, the boy trod one slice of bread under
foot, and the old woman, dropping her worn-out
umbrella, snatched up the other slice, hid it under
her shawl, and glanced round fearfully lest any-
one had seen. Then she picked up her umbrella
and staggered on.”
Dear Bulletin,—No man with any sense
of the congruities should by choice travel over the
Canadian Pacific Railway. The Yankees are ac-
cused of defacing the scenery of their country
with advts. of pills and patent-medicines, but this
is not so bad as perpetuating the names of the
venal projectors of a semi-Govt. railroad by
naming the grandest scenery on its route after
them. Two of the finest peaks in the Canadian
Rockies are dubbed respectively Mount Stephen
and Mount Macdonald. Has anyone m Australia
ever heard of Lord Mount Stephen ? He is the
first blossom of a Colonial peerage and the
origin of his absurd title is worth telling. Origi-
nally a Montreal softgoods-man, he staked his pile
on the Canadian Pacific project, spent part ot it
where it did the most good, generally about elec-
tion times and in the interests of Macdonald s
Government; got the road through, and named
two of the Western Continent's most majestic
scenes after Macdonald and himself. 1 or. his
“ disinterested and patriotic services ” he received
a peerage, whatever that may be, and is now-
think of the wonderful apotheosis of the creature
and the hideous desecration of nature!—Lord
Mount Stephen. — Kanuck.
FOR GENTLEMEN.
Visitors
should see our stock
while in town.
Our variety enables
us to fit the feet.
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-st., Sydney.
LOMBARDIA,
THE GREAT PILE SPECI FIC
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
Before trying other so-called Remedies you
should ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a
Pot of Lombardia, and take no other. Only one
Trial is asked.
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
F MCDONALD, Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
cua
iiwvs
0-0 TO HBLIi-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Go.),
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.VV.
Spriijg BOds BOrst
at hark Foy’s
A Riot of LoVclii)£SS-
.Sond for Illustrated Price List.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
oa
WS> .A
W OivV
vQ
e
Hand finished, full-capped English Lever, L'3 10s. Strongest, cheapest, and
best time-keeper ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B—
—4, 5, 6 years’ guarantee. Silver Hunting Key or Keyless, £2, £2 10s. Short
Wind Kevless, 7s Gd and 12s Cd. Superior quality, 20s, guaranteed. Gold
Levers, £4, £5, to £2O. Direct Agents for Rotherham’s Levers, Waltham’s,
and Walerbury, at 25 p.c. less than other houses.
m
Beautifully chased. Any name or
initial. !)c. Solid Gold Bar, quite
new, 7s 6d. Extra strong, 10s. 15c.
Gold Bar, 15s. 18c. Gold Bar, 20s.
Bure Silver Bar, 3s Gd.
C different Patterns, Gold
Links, 12s 6d. Chain connec-
tion, 15s.
15c. Gold, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s and «s
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d
Set with 2 Pearls & Redstone, 12s (id
18c. Gold Pure Diamond,
2 Rubies or Sapphires, a±
3 pure Diamonds, £3.
□Oil
Quite New, Gold Bar, Pearls
and Rubies, 20s. 15c. Gold
Pearls and Rubies (latest), £2.
18e. Gold Fancy Keeper, raised
flowers, 30s. Extra heav}', £2.
l( .Jfl.llill'i l -w
'O'O'O'C
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 20s.
Solid Gold Chain, Single
or Double, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
Ladies’ 3 Sapphires, 2
Diamond Ring, 180.
Gold, £3, £4, £6, £0;
all Diamonds, £4, £5,
£6, £7, £B, £lO, £l2
10s., £l5, £2O. Price
according to size of
stones.
afegg'
i n
m
P-ig-: j
r®»«p«rf
Solid Gold, 3-bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
lied Stone, 2 Bearls, 16s.
Any
9o .Soli . Gold, 17s (Id. 16c., 25s and 30s. 180.
Solid Gold, 30s, 355, £2.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Ame-
thyst, 22s OcL. 15c. Gold, £2.
18c. Gold, 2 Diamonds, £3. Diamond and
Euby, £2 10s.
fiiP=
a
Gold Brooch, 2-Bar, 15s 6d.
All
Watch
Articles
Repairs
Post
GuaranteeG
Free
m
ss
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3. Key
255., 305., 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO. All
guaranteed.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby and
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers. 9c.
Solid Gold, 10s each. 15a Gold, 155.; extra
Qfe::i;;s^impi^ollts-;9r^3
Qi^ii ; " ! "' lll!il| iiiiii!ii"r^ !^i^, jF aij^!': i^""TOI| !ii'?»Kiir:i" ll! ": ! " :wp<S3
'^W
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst, 21s.
15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Gold 2-bar Bed Stone, 2 Pearls, 15s Gd.
rtfe
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond, 30s.
Diamond and 2 Rubies, 355. ; 3 Diamonds, C 2.
Cold 3-bar, Red Stone, 16s 6d.
18c. Gold, l'ure Diamonds, £2.
i;‘2 10s., £3. l’rice to size of
stone.
SAVE
5S to 7S 6D
in the found.
1 SELL DIRECT
from the
Makers to the Public.
18c. Gold, 2 Dia-
monds, 3 Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
& pure Diamonds,
£4 10s.
Pure Silver Plate on White
Metal, 20s.
Send for illustration.
Pure Silver Thimbles,
Is. 6d., 2s 6d; steel-
lined, 3s 6d, 4s; case,
Is extra.
150. Solid Gold Double Buckle, 80s.
Send for
ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST.
All Goods Duty Paid
to all
Parts of Australia.
WISB3
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
150. Gold „ 32s 6d.
aril
Solid Gold. Any Name or Initials, beautifully
engraved, 10s. Extra strong, 12s 6d.
Send your
Orders to
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker, Jeweller,
and Direct Importer,
815-817 George-st.,
opp Railway Station, SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST. -«
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
DEMONSTRATION H.
sth. October.
10,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTEKSALL. '
the above,
Please allot me
Shares in
Name.
Address
I#
.1 U. 4
MELBOURNE C. 3rd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
;E
Address
viwmm
MMS
il
CAULFIELD C.
17tln October.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
the above.
.Shares in
Name.
Address.
MELBOUBNE 0.
3r«aL UNT ovember,
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL. ~~
Please allot me
blie above.
Shares in
Name.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUTT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, andean offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letl ers of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can he ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Ltd,
Incorporated under the “ Companies’ A:t 1590.”
Authorised Capital .. .. -- •• £4,000,000
Capital Paid-up .. .. . £1,607,635 0 11
Preference, Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 142,364 19 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .... .. 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman ; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Hon.
SirW. A.ZealjIi.C.M.G., M.L.C.;Auditors: W.ll.Tuckett,
Eso.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Milian, M.L.A. Manager:
Grorge Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-etreet Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP" .. .. £369,233
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 3)0,093
RESERVE FUND .t „. 31,500
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Trustees, Executors, <(; A yency
Co inpan if, Li mi ted.
Established 1873.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £OO,OOO 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £43,733 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., 0. M. Officer,
Esq., H on. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
.—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
. Delaliay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estates undertaken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 41‘2 Collins Street, Melbourne,
phßDis gssurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... ... ... £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed .£20,000,000.-
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
CLARKE & CO.,
STOCK & SHARE BROKERS,
309 COLLINS
Telephone No. 314.
STREET,
Melbourne.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REHUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D, & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month fpr every £1 to £lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
• 3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over —Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.*
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices : SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street *
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, 60 Market Street.
T. J. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
stock and share broker.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
Tbe
PON CASN
TRAPINS Co.’s
Popular parcels !
The value of these parcels 18 UNPRECEDENTED, and wo |«M *> REIUND
MONEY in every instance where satisfaction is not given.
OUR ORIGINAL DRESS PA™™contains 3 Dresses;"d
2 dress lengths of New Fancy.Tvtoed Ca^” r ?' i °? t S White Calico.
Print or pretty Delainette; Byds. Selicia, 2|yds. Body Lining, a y
20s. the lot.
THE DON DRESS PARCEL contains 1 Good Dress, Linings and Trimmings as
™wsi7,d" double width of new Boucle Cloth styirsh Tweed,,« nt*AU
Coating Serge, 4yds. heavy beetled Twill Sellers in. 1’ - jy ress Preservers,
Webbing. Unequalled value for 20s. __ ——
OUR SPECIAL REMNANT PARCEL containing^ from 45
ments, in all classes of material, such as Dress Stuffs, Ilann•» f °‘
Galatea, Calico, Print, Muslin, Holland, Embroidery, Lace &c &c. A“m b er Te refund
where there is a family. Send 20s. for one of these Remnant Parcels. Remember, we
the money if not approved of. _
OUR SPECIAL PARCEL FOR LADIES contains %ds>• double of our
Famous All-Wool Coating Serge, unequalled for appearance and durab I jyCbjj
rich Silk-finished Velveteen, 2yds. fashionable Sequin or-Jet Ladies’ Knickers
Selicia, 2yds. Body Lining 1 Ladies’ Chemise, 11Nightrdiress and 1 glj circular
manufactured from beautiful soft-finish I lannelette, and 1
band. This wonderful parcel post free for 255.
otfr WONDERFUL HOUSEHOLD PARCEL is a marvel of cheapness, and
SStainYsWds White TwiU Sheeting 2yds. wide ; 1 do,, yds. good Household
wide; and { do/, good White Turkish Towels. Post free, 255. ,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING PARCEL has a complete outfit of really nice
Garments—2 Chemises, 2 Night-dresses, 2 pairs Knickers, all pure longcloth
Cotton Hose, all for 255. NOTE.-We will substitute one Red and Black Ancona Ln
skirt with Circular Band in place of the Aprons, if desired.
nm? PE NTS’ SUIT PARCEL. For 20s. we will forward post free to any
the Australasiancolonies —one Gent’s All-Wool Colonial Tweed Suit;
well made any slue from 3 to 7. Undoubtedly the best smt ever offered for
the money. ' —— •
THE DON SUIT PARCEL contains one Gent’s heavy Scotch Tweed Suit; a
magnificent line for real hard wear, and can be thoroughly recommended. 20s.
THE WORKING MAN’S PARCEL—2 pairs heavy Mole Trousers, 2 strong
Cotton or Flannellete Shirts, with or without collars, 4 pairs strong, well-finished
o -. yri -u' l ( |r„f black or colored, 1 pair of good Braces or strong Leather Belt, 2 large
’state size of hat, shirts, and trousers. 255. the lot.
Marvellous value. ' - , ■ ■ ■ ■— ■ —-
THE DON SPECIAL CLEARING PARCEL.-1 Dress length of All-Wool
Seme or Fancy Tweed, 12yds. Soft Twill Flannelette, Ido/, yds Pure Un-
, „ ~ pf n 1 Ci wide fivds Cream Dressed Holland, now so much used for aprons
Blue, 'or maroue. The lot post free
for 225. 6d. .
THE DON BLANKET PARCEL contains 1 pair splendid White Whitney
Blankets with handsome border, extra weight, full site for Double Bed, 20s.
post free. A special Bargain,
rvrrß T A RTFS’ COSTUME PARCEL contains 1 All-Wool Serge Costume,
°Sa fttongho„t, Blo«“th Yoke Back and Full Bishop Sleeves trimmed
lengtlj of skirt from waist to bottom hem.
THE LITTLE STRANGER’S PARCEL contains a Complete Outfit of Baby
1 tiJii P o ttvn p T.nns’cloth Dav Gowns, Trimmed Lace; 2 Long
aifd 1 Box Safety Pins. Post free to any Intercolonial Address for 225. 6d.
TTTE “DON” VELVETEEN’ PARCEL contains 12yds. Beautiful Silk
Finish Indestructible Pile Velveteen, in Black or any of the Leading Shades ;
surprise you.
One Pair Gent’s Superior All-Wool Colonial Tweed Trousers—special
cut and finish. Post free any Australian or New Zealand address for 7s. 9d.
twe TiON PARCEL FOR YOUTHS, contains 1 Youth’s All-Wool Tweed
™t a?y L ftom lit 21,1 Pair Elastic Brace,, 1 Silk Handkerch.ef (whrte
or colored), and 2 Pairs of Sox. 20s.
OUR BLACK CASHMERE PARCEL contains 7 yards Rich Blue or Jet
PI aok Cashmere, permanent dye, superior finish ; 1 yard Rich Black Silk for
imming ; 6 yards Silk finished Linenette for lining, and 2 dozen pretty Jet Buttons. s.
arnage Paid. ~ ANDSOME COATING SERGE FROCKS. Velvet Yokes
P,S?Pnff Sleeves Yoke and Sleeves Lined. Size, 21im, 2s. lid. ; 24in.,
• f K U 5s 33in 5s 9L? 36im, 6s. 6d. Post Free. This pretty Dress
Into tad "u’any of colom : Navy, myrtle, brown, and marone. (Measurements
iken from neck to bottom of skirt). .
“VTiwqTqTPONC KNICKER SUITS for school-wear, made of stout Everlast-
fng TweSanMacfumUspecially for us, lined throughout. Sizes 2to 7,6 s. 3d.;
"to 10 7s. 6d. g A marvellous suit for real hard wear. Carriage Paid.
~„rp,.id to’lOTvfotoriau addrks. Undoubtedly the greatest value ever offered in this line.
“ Tvttt7tip ErN’S PRETTY WASHING FROCKS, manufactured frofm beautiful
Sizes—-21iu., is. M. , 24in„ 25., 27, n„ 2a 3d;
£/ 2 1. 6d. ; 33in., 2s. 9d. ; 30m., 3s. Post Iree.
w
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
810.
811.
812
813
815.
817
818.
819
820.
821
822
823
_ ... , A „„„ r r i-Vp a u ove WONDERFUL PARCELS, securely packed, POST
W E pilDtaiy mteSlonM address on receipt of amount stated. Intercolonial Bank,
PosTal aS Postage Stamps must have exchange added. P.O. Orders payable to
C. Bethune.
TbePoD CasbTradiogCo.,
208 to 214 Johnston Street, Collingwood,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital
Paid-dp ..
£6,000,000
£3,955,981 108.
Directors :
Hon. Janies Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie Esa . J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M. n. a. ,
George Means, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N.■ TliomW,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G.. M.L.L.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.■ i •
Instectors: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R- H- ’
11. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JBishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOIIGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
" —THE —
Queensland Qational Bank,
** LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.”
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 886,839 2 7
Directors:
Hon. F. H. Hart, M.L.C., Chairman ; Hon. Boyd D. More-
head, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir A. H. Palmer, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ;
A. B. Webster, Esq.
Acting General Manager : Walter Vardon Ralston.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pjtt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches, and Agents ;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security \ receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all othei usual
banking business. -
Cable Address—R IEMSEIIZ TELEPHONE No. 1595.
Code—MOREING & Neal, eta. Box No. &7, L.R-U.
ClarKe & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS,
Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide
(Late Australasia Chambers, King William St,).
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies,
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill. .
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks. Special attention given to business in Bank
Deposit Receipts. ....
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE invaluable to Investors,
free on application. .
John Macgregfor
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
UrtOKER.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Promo-Cyanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays atid reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office', Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable
address, Macgregor.
Sugar. Sugar. Sugar.
JOHN CAIRNS,
LAND AGENT,
1X AVING secured, large .areas soil
B j situate in the CAIRNS DISTRICT, N.Q.,
specially adapted for growing Sugar, Coffee, and
other tropical products, and convenient to Mills
in course of erection under the Sugar Guarantee
Act, is prepared to treat with intending Investors
on Easy Terms. .
The lands offered compare advantageously with
those of Bundaberg or Mackay for important
reasons. Frost is unknown, damage from grub
nil, and the climate unsurpassed for the purposes
of such culture. To persons of small means this
opportunity should not be lost, as this industry
has been proved to be the best investment at pre-
sent offering in the colony.
Areas subdivided to suit purchasers. Hundreds
of Acres for Lease or Sale.
Enquiry courted and fullest particulars given
FREE.
John Cairns,
Cairns, N.Q.
Coffee. Coffee.
Coffee,
W. A. Kingsborough,
SHAREJiRO KER.
3 Royal Exchange,
Adelaide.
£5O to NOTHING.
The Proprietors of the Goldfields Courier,
Coolgardie, offer £5O to the first person selecting
the Winning Double of the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cups.
Coupon and conditions appear weekly in the
Courier, copies of which may be had post free
for 7d. in stamps of any colony.
Madaxxxe Rodney,
rpHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
-h may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
at the
IMPERIAL ARCADE, Pitt-st., Sydney.
“TiERRIER’S ” World-renouned TOILET
JC preparations
Have stood the test of years, and still command an
enormous sale in London and Paris. Used by all promi-
nent Society ladies. Can be obtained in Sydney at fol-
lowing price.s (post-free) ;— Puarlixe, 5/ ; Skin Toxic, 3/6 ;
Bloom of Peaches, 26; Freckle Cream, 4/6; &c., &c.
Send stamped envelope for Catalogue. “ FERRIER ”
TOILET SPECIALITY CO., Box 1070, G.P.O.


BUCKLEY & NUNN Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “Victoria” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ £IG and £2l
LADIES’ £lB and £2l
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1896 im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies’
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OP THE
NEW LIPE ASSURANCE TABLE
OF THE
Liverpool & Condon & globe,
UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Rates.
Head Office for Australasia : 62 Pitt Street, Sydney ;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 ...
Total Claims Paid
Total Claims Paid in Australasia
Income for Year 1895 ...
Prospectus can be obtained on application at Head
Office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLAItKE, Resident Secretary.
£9,708,495
32,796,549
2,259,404
2,339,622
SPORTING NOTIONS.
fhethree slogging amateurs—Palairet, Jackson,
and O Brien—won the Scarborough match for Thornton's
h even making 203 among them out of a 292 total.
1 iid tb ® team, which was about the strongest
All-England combination for wet weather, achieved 80 runs
tor / wickets, a slightly worse average than the Aus-
trahans. Peel, who was “ nowhere ” among the bowlers
in the early months of the season, canie out on this occa-
sion with a record of 12 for 96, whilst J. T. Hearne took
only 4 wickets for 114. George Smith took 3 for 19. In
one or two other matches Smith did pretty well against
the visitors, so he must have, in a small way, the best
boss bowling average for Anglo-Australian matches.
* * * *
“Trott,” writes an Australian abroad to The
Bulletin, “ has proved himself an admirable captain, both
in the field and out of it, and, without loss of command or
dignity, has managed to keep the members of the team in
good temper all round. Giffen declares him to be the
best skipper he has ever played under, and even the
English press admit that he quite out-generaled W.G. in
the second test-match.
“ It is surprising, when a big victory is on the
cards, to observe how the Australian colors are to the
fore. On the third day of the second test-match, and
again at Surrey, all sorts of unknown youths were swag-
gering about with blue and gold hatbands and the coat-
ot-arms embroidered on them, also with blue and gold ties
of all sorts. If, by accident, a stranger takes them for
members of the team, they are delighted, and never un-
deceive anyone.
Lohman sent a wire at the last moment to say
he was not well enough to play against the Australians in
the first Surrey match. Rumor has it that he thought
his appearance would tend to spoil the interest
taken in his benefit three days later, and that he did
not wish to ‘show’ in public before that event. If
this was so it was a poor compliment to the Australians,
who had given £2O towards this benefit, and his non-
appearance certainly affected the gate, though it was a
big one even without him. It was noticeable, too, that
though too ill to play he was well enough to be present in
the pavilion, working energetically for the success of his
own match.
“On each occasion when the Australians have
played at Lord’s they have started apparently in a
blue funk. They certainly have always recovered as the
game went on, but, on the first two occasions, too late to
draw o/it ° n only just in time to make a
‘‘One of the finest photos, ever taken is that of
the Sydney Cncket Ground, which hangs in the bar of
Lord s Pavilion. It is about Bft. long and 2ft. high and
was taken during the great test-match against Stoddart’s
team when the Australians just lost by seven runs.
“ Clem. Hill, who has bo frequently got out
during the tour in endeavouring to pull straight and even
balls on the off stump round to leg, made nearly all his
118 runs against Surrey in that way. He had announced
his intention of keeping up the stroke which had so often
but A t ls P art of his style and he can’t
resist the temptation. He seems to be sure enough of it
when well set, but not before, although at Birmingham
98 an* ?* led . \ n at c ten !P tin £r it when he had made
Jo and been at the wicket for hours.
“Jones evidently has a very quick eye, for
m battln £ he hangs at everything he almost in-
variably gets some runs. Ten minutes or a quarter of an
? ® nerally his limit at the wickets, but in that time
he delights the crowd by knocking up 20 or 30 As he
himself says-‘When I go in I have a clip at ’em aM
either make some runs or get out.’ ’’
* * * *
Bar Eady and Johns, what a success the new
men have been ! Look at Joe Darling going in first every
tune, taking the brunt of the battle, and coming out with
the highest total of 1549, and an average of 30 runs per
innings! Had not Gregory come so heroically to the
rescue at times—for instance, as in the first test-match,
one would be inclined to give the Adelaide man the palm
As it is, a toss-up decides it. 1
* * * *
. What a pity Iredale did not make 50 runs first
innings in England and a century the second 1 He has
such a tendency to hatch out eggs when he begins
hatching era, and per contra such a facility for scoring
centuries once he begins scoring. And had he done well
at the very start and felt quite sure that he was master
of English bowling on English wickets, Australia might
have won the rubber all right. See Iredale failing dis-
mally match after match at the beginning of the tour and
teZHX 8 the °f England in the second
test-match. He doesn t seem the same man ; neither is
t* et Z% a Ire ? al t ( i n and Iredale off there is the dif-
ference that exists between a cricketer and a duffer
between 100 runs and 0.
* * * y
It would have been wise to back M'Kibbin for
the bowling average, because he is essentially lucky He
is a bowler who bowls so much “soft stuff*‘that It last
the batsman try to do too much with him and so get out
SGh y q7 y wh?w et + IX lnstead of bein fT content with four.
Still, 97 wickets at an average of 13.67 obtained against
men who are all representative English cricketers is a big
performance, and argues that M‘K. has obtained a length
When he was going to England he told the writer that he
could not believe he was picked while Turner was omitted,
and, probably, during the voyage back M‘K. will be
wondering whether he has really secured the bowline
a dream whether the fasc »nating idea is the creature o!
Trumble has borne the hard graft of the bowl-
'l?^a'ldcomes with a highest total of 131 wickets at
about 16 runs a wicket. The nasty little circle in Mel-
bourne that gnawed its lips and fingers because Trumble
was chosen must feel inclined to tear its hair out over the
long fellow s success. And he did marvels with the ball at
moments”** bat * ed a^so "’ith stern pluck at critical
* * * *
Syd. Gregory tops the batting with the fine
average of 31.8, three better than Graham’s top, ’93 tour
Syd. had half-a-dozen teeth knocked out by one fast ball
and a piece of his trousers ripped away by another fast
ri . sen , a little higher, would probably
Graham lnstead of P assin g between his legs\
had'wt fn h 8 forme^P al > averages only 18, and had the
bad luck to be snapped up almost every time
* * * *
•a the old - time Sydney cricketing
identities passed away last week with “Nat” Thomn-
son When the first Australian Eleven was bemg
fixed up in 77 for its historic trip ’Ome the following-
year, Thompson was approached, but refused point-blank
to go unless £3OO was paid him before he left Sydney As
all , tb ? ? tbers "'ere putting in £55, they naturally backed,
and Nat stood out. And just as well he did, as 'the team
on its return was unanimous that the old ’un would
never have stood the wear and tear of the campaign. His
first club was the National, and upon its disbandment he
aiwi pro iu SSlon al for the Warwicks, and afterwards the
,'-’ as good in all departments of the
game, and although his style had many copyists, it must
be confessed it was not of his seeking, as he was ever
jealous of youngsters coming on. Nat was an enthusiastic
quoit-player, and in his latter days was as ardent a
oUhecricket-field'" 6 “ in Ws earlier days he hadb^n
, ? ritls K cheek, the statement by the Times
oi C t C °£ Sl< l er< l d T T the -Australian team now in England
h2en n QO+ the - best University eleven. A team that has not
the r,,KK ten l i\ a ? lnB ' le count y match, and won one out of
r n Ju r °1 te f, t " l ? latches against the best of England.
Orood as England’s big- school! Thanks, awfully.
* * * *
The first Australian Eleven was only beaten in
itmatch, viz., Nottingham. Yorkshire beat
t once, but, as it beat the Tykes twice, it didn’t count.
Koot v! n b great Giffen proved himself to be the
Dest all-round Australian cricketer? A total of 1200 runs
wUh an average of 25 ; a second-highest bowling total of
an average of 18 a wicket ! Trumble scored 600
f.f>Qt S it >r ic , o aV^ ra ?T e of ’ took 131 wickets at an average
• 16.3. H..S. Trott compiled 1300 runs, averag-
ing 26.5 ; took 33 wickets for 21.6 a wicket. The Great
George made twice as many runs as Trumble, took only
nine less wickets, and got less than two runs worse bowl-
ing average.
* ♦ * *
Cricketer Spofforth was 41 on Sept. 9.
* * * *
, How many Australian papers have given Kelly
full credit for his wonderful performance against England
1? bhe second test-match? The writer maintains that
nelly not only won the match, but his performance has
" e ''? r beaten by any ’keeper. In the first innings he
made 27 and stumped Grace and Stoddart and caught
■ ro.wn. One bye only was recorded. In the second
innings he stumped Briggs and caught Hearne when Eng-
land was piling up runs through Ranjitsinjhi. Two byes
°P ly - Then came his great stand with Trumble when
trembled in the balance and only Jones and
M Aibbm to bat. Blackham never did better, if as well
* * * •
Recent English papers explain M'Kibbin’s re-
turn to form. They credit the Bathurst man with bowl-
ing a better length and sacrificing the big break he was
M’Kibbin Enghsh experience has made a bowler of
• * * *
. Tbe question in Adelaide is, “ Will the Cricket-
ing Association renew its offer to Jones now he has fallen
Melb or Sydney “ J ° neS WUI probably 8 ° to
?....* * *
He Ranjitsinjhi : Trott says that if eleven In-
dians came to England and learnt cricket, and were good
I"°S' the dear old mother-country might have a colored
English representative team.
* * * * •
<> H ea s at Oval during first Surrey match:
notMnTbut n!> 8 -baUs^ ibbin thr ° WS * and Jones bowls
* * • *
a respectable wicket-keeper, and a first-
nexd eleven lll probably be offered a billet in Stoddart’s
* * * *
No cricketer gets to top form in the three depart-
fiim °L tbe v Bame , at one and the same time. He may
? bls be , st before he reaches 21, bat his best between 21
nnHi Vi a “ d g 0 or i improving as a bowler (medium pace)
until he is considerably over 30. Fast bowling wears
them out sooner. ®
* * * «
The remark ? so frequently passed, that Aus-
marvellous considering the limited
population of the country, appears to be very true until
one hears exactly the same thing said of cricket in South
Africa where the local talent improves even more rapidly
than it developed here. As a matter of fact there are no
n?nnt ! ° US P erf °rmers at the game, for the reason that it
“j,°, ft f ,ne ? £ f ll - The boy, Clem. Hill, knows pretty
well all there is to learn about batting and fielding. A
first-class cricketer is frequently an ass, and seldom a
brainy man. If an Australian, or All-England, eleven
represented eleven wonderful artists the teams wouldn’t
vary every year, and we wouldn’t have constant chatter
ab °^ thls ° n ® being more worthy of selection than
another on his latest form. “ Form ” doesn’t varv like a
Thp^hpst n } >lPlardB > which is a great game~of skill.
The best billiard-players can be sworn to at the com-
mencement of a season, and new champions are scarce
r^p?°pf S u 1 ?f- perSOn ' vould back himself to predict the
A uaLSL ba ,- mg ' averaBe f for next year > in England or
Australia. Even the bowlers chop and change places on
the list every season They are artists, but not mar-
vellous. In a less degree batsmen are artists, yet
" a one ,.°! them > at his very best, can score more
runs within a given time, or play a finer de-
stnTth ln any way demonstrate greater
skil than fifty other men at their best. Cricket doesn’t
ih « f P hen °menal excellence in the playing, or we
wouM find men carrying out their bats every innings!
unless they were run out. Australia contains a sufficient
number of practised cricketers for the selection of a first-
class eleven from the best 20 or so. England contains a
pwI 1 ' nulnber ffood performers, nevertheless no
eleven of them can be depended upon to show much
el l ecr or WpW 1 /h anySUP H e -i- Orityat all> over the Australian
elect. Weather conditions in this country are more
favorable to the production of good bowlers and steady
batsmen and South Africa also has the same advanta-e
over England, but the results of this fact are not mar-
vellous. One kind of English wicket-dull, yet easy to
p f ecullar t 0 tbe country, but there is no urn
rivalled performer on that particular kind of ground.
Cricket is a game of skill up to a certain point which
many young men are able to attain. If it were a more
difficult game to master the difference between the
average Australian dry wicket and the ordinary English
“ would enable the boss team of either country
to beat the other every time on its own ground. y
Randolph Bedford (of all persons !) has received
an imposing circular from an English firm of bike mann
£23 on the f The . clrcular P u . ts th e retail price of the bike at
£23 on the front page, and on the back page it under-
takes to supply the sinful machine “duty free” in Mel-
bourne for £8 10s. Blessed is the middleman, for he shall
inherit some of the landowner’s earth.
* * * *
*X°t t( ? b , e beaten by Melb. Bicycle Club with its
fs?i , USfcra ! W , hed Eace ’ the A.N.A. fete committee has
decided on tacking £5OO of prize-money to its two-mile
handicap on Jan? 26. The biggest prize on record
* * * *
An automatic contrivance for inflating pneu-
matm tyres in general has recently been invented and
perfected by Mr. W. Merton, of Marrickville, Sydney
Its simplicity and effectiveness will popularise it through-
°ubthe world. The invention is so fixed on a cycle-wheel
that while the wheel protects it from injury it sustains
the wheel s balance, and as its weight is a mere trifle it
dispenses with the consideration of decreased speed • it is
impervious to water and dirt, is noiseless and practically
everlasting and without causing the cyclist to dismount
it can be set at work or at rest by the touch of a finger.
Up to now, if a cyclist wanted to blow his tyre up he got
off and walked back ten miles to where he had lost his
pump, or thought he had lost it, or he borrowed another
pump which wouldn’t fit, with the result that instead of
riding the cycle, the cycle rode him to the nearest drinkerv
where dinner was over. But the automatic pump of Mr
Merton will change all this. Perhaps its best feature is
that if a tyre is punctured by half-a-dozen tacks the
pump constantly working will maintain so strong an in-
jection of air that the service of the tyre is preserved •
while the pump’s wonderful efficiency should revolution-
ise the slow adaptation of the pneumatic tyre for buggies
c *’ P4 m Pi n £ trouble now being reduced to
0. The inventor will patent the invention in England
and America and will then place it upon the market at a
small cost.
* * * * *
Martin’s lowering of all Brisbane records from
l 2 „ , ’ llIes „ t0 25 miles, is interesting, because he meets
M Donell over 25 miles in Sydney, Sept. 26. The meeting
of these two will be the severest trial on which two
cyclists have yet met in Australia. 25 miles unpaced is a
big order. Odds on Martin.
* * « *
That relay race between Sydney and Melbourne
is only one of many schemes got up to advertise the un-
interesting Ego of a certain very pushing young man.
Sfcanbury, under 30 years of age, and in “splen-
did condition,” downed by Gaudaur, aged 39. It is Beach
v. Gaudaur over again ; the elder sculler beating the
younger. But what" stuff Gaudaur must be made of, and
what a champion of champion’s Bill Beach was to down
such an opponent ! A sculling race is one of the severest
ordeals into which a man can enter, and these victories of
40 year old youths over green boys of 30 adds fresh sensa-
tion to the uncertain, ever-changing history of athletics.
Some matured man of 50 should now arise and give
Gaudaur his quietus.
* * * •
The Sydney syndicate which cabled a few hun-
dred for investment on big Jim hasn’t shown out since.
And it is pretty safe to say that some of the Aus. Eleven,
wishing to double their earnings, turned out in style and
went home stone-broke. Stanbury was probably troubled
with insomnia the night previous, and fell asleep during
the race.
A 20-lengths win practically means beaten out
of sight. How the Hinglishers will glory in Stanbury’s
discomfiture ! Gaudaur has apparently been conserving
his strength for years ; training quietly, and living a
model life. He is more brilliant than the Ryde giant, who
has seemingly been ruined by over-confidence.
World’s-champion Gaudaur used to beat and be
beaten by Teenier every month. He is 39, and Stanbury
29. Beach was 46 last Sunday.
* * * *
The fact that Nada, knocked over by a bike on
Randwick-road, will be able to start at the A. J.C. gave
much satisfaction to the St. Alban’s stable. Stable was
also glad to hear that the bike was smashed to atoms.
Neither jockey Morrison nor the scorching middle-of-the-
roader was injured. But the language used would have
broken an iron-bar.
* * * *
Nada is the first racehorse in the world to get
knocked down by a bicyclist. “ Coincidence ’’-seekers
will possibly regard this as a tip for next Melbourne Cup,
because the fact that the mare smashed the bike may
mean that she is going to break the record. What price
Nada, anyhow?
* * * *
T, Ad . e ! aide foc’vball: Aug. 22, against S. Adelaide,
Port Adelaide Club turned out with nine regular players,
the balance of II being substitutes ! This was a so-called
first-class match, played on Adelaide Oval! Meanwhile,
the lacrosse matches, played on outside grounds, attract'
large attendances every Saturday.
* * * •
The Taranaki representative 15 is again the
champion M.L. football-team, having won all the inter-
provincial matches this year—the third year in succession
it has gone through the season without a defeat. This
year (says a Bulletin correspondent) will probably see
the retirement of Alf. Bayly, Allan and Hugh Good, and
a Taranaki team minus these will be hardly known. No
less than seven Bayly brothers have played for the pro-
vince, and Alf. has played in its matches continuously
since 85. Four of the Good family have represented
Taranaki, Allan first playing in ’B7. This year’s team,
which is almost as strong as that of ’94, contains no less
than 13 farmers, some of them living nearly 100 miles
ftpart.
* * • *
. Williamstown and Richmond match ended up
m another disgraceful football riot. Ten players were
engaged m ordinary fighting at. various times, while
several other thick-skinned hoodlums perpetrated unpro-
voked assaults whenever possible. Williamstown vice-
captain Warren was kicked wherever convenient until
effectually disabled.
* * * *
Essendon v. Collingwood, Melb.’s most im-
portant Saturday match, was “ ding-dong ” from start to
t 1- The finai quarter was entered with Essendon 2g.
4b. to Collingwood 2g. 7b. The latter suddenly, whilit
Essendon were thinking things over, put on 4g lb
Essendon woke up towards nightfall, potted another’goal!
and then realised their last premiership hope was gone.
Final Collingwood 6g. Bb., Essendon 3g. 4b.
South or Collingwood must be 1896 premiers.
Titzroy may defeat both and still leave Essendon behind.
Also, Collingwood may be premiers even if beaten by
South s'’ 5 '’ aS P Melb ' have a reasonable chance of dishing
* * * *
Vic. schools goal-kicking record was smashed
last week by Toorak Grammar School kicking 39 goals 23
behinds against Malvern College nil.
* * * *
i-n'k® sport-love of Australian youth is going to
still further express itself in “Australian Cricket—a
weekly, record of the game.” T. W. Garrett, C. T. B.
Turner, A. C. K. Mackenzie, umpire “Teddy” Briscoe
and one or two smaller cricket authorities will contribute
to the new venture, and should make it popular. That
lS’if they can write cricket as well as they can play it.
Judged by the result of the test-matches, Australia will
have to play more and talk less cricket than formerly
and it is to be hoped that the new paper will show this
country s youths how to do so.
* * * *
Merman s dual win Saturday has made him
favorite for Caulfield Cup. Bookies now make any horse
a favorite as soon as he scoops a little race.
* * * *
If Newhaven is going to perform as expected at
nis stable-mate, Destiny, ought to be a big
order for the Metrop. He can get the distance, and is
much improved since he won at Adelaide.
* * * *
■ ?? solute and Marusa are being solidly backed
in Adelaide to win Melb. Cup. J
* * * »
4 fte £ sk y- rocketin B' i n ke market for over a
week The Skipper was withdrawn from Hawkesbury
Grand, although taken to the meet. Backed all roads
and tipped everywhere, the black would have been an
ugly toss-up for the books. Owners always hold a trump-
caid in the scratching-pen, but there is no apparent
cleverness m using it. Followers of influential stables
like to receive sporting treatment.
* # * $
Hawkesbury Handicap brought out an even lot
any one of half-a-dozen having prospects at the distance!
Right Honorable, the aristocrat of the crowd, succeeded
from _Gaulus and Messmate. Sired by the venerable
Grandmaster, it was but his second win, and scarcely
sufficient to justify a Cup backing. Top-weight Water-
fall figured throughout, but was beaten off.
* * » *
Layers of 5 to 4 on hurdler Hotspur, Saturday,
had a unique experience, Michigan jumping out of the
course first try. Two for a hurdle-race shows what the
game has come to. Michigan’s jock didn’t even try for
the tenner given for second place.
* * * ,
A. J.C. Epsom Handicap this coming Saturdav
is as open as a fishing-net, and the chances are that the
last-moment-favorite will win. The whole crowd can
gallop a nnle, but the majority haven’t been galloping
at all lately in view of the 1000-sovs. purse. In a field of
45 (acceptances aren’t due until after publication of this
paper) a punter might as well try to pick it in one as to
select it in six. Under the adverse circs., the writer
plumps stra 'ght for little Dalmeny. And a record will
have to be broken to keep him out of a place.
* * * *
The vast aggregation of horsey talent have a
puzzling classic knot to untie in Rand wick Derby this
Saturday. The starters are uncertain at time of writing,
but the writer is avowedly prejudiced in favor of Tir6,
who will be ridden by Jas. Gough, the engaged of St.
Albans’. Charge, also in Monaghan’s stable, may win, as
a Carbine should do, but then there is favorite Coil, Reka
and co. competitors. Also, it is quite safe to say that
Hickenbotham doesn’t bring Interlude across from Melb.
for fun. Tir<s may tire first, but the writer believes he
will tire last, and credit M.L. with its third successive
win in this event.
* • * •
Princess of Wales, the almost end-to-end leader
in Adelaide Derby, is full-sister to Hordern’s The Skipper.
She isn’t in the Cup. Her owner couldn’t expect to have
an Auraria two years running.
* • * •
It doesn’t always follow that the acceptance of
a sweep-cut by an owner means that he is going to try.
In one case awhile back the nag wasn’t touched in town
or on the course by the stable, and the public kept off
with wonderful unanimity. And he belongs to an
allegedly “straight” establishment. As a set-off, the
writer must mention that the same owner on another
occasion wasn’t “ approached ” by the ticketholder, and
said he didn’t care. He was going to start and win. And
he did.
* * * *
Pony King William, still racing in Sydney, is
nine years old, and he has 46 wins to his credit.
» * » *
Only a jock, of Lewis’ calibre could have pulled
off the forlorn hope on Thunder Queen in S.A. J.C. Derby,
a brisk, turbulent race in which a dead set was made on
the favorite. Concussion left, Eleusinian crossed, Helena
kicked, Thunder Queen blocked and then bumped by
The Royalist at a critical moment is an ugly catalogue for
a classic field of seven. Although Lewis won amid a babel
of sound, the concluding incident should teach him a
useful lesson re the folly of trying to sneak up on the
inside. r
• * * *
Tom Hales made Thunder Queen’s time 2.42 J;
official, 2.43 sec. quicker than Auraria’s last year. As
the Queen could have won easier with a clear thorough-
fare, her performance should to some extent dissipate the
idea that Thunderbolt’s stock can’t stay.
* * * *
One of the Vic. police horses is said to be an-
other Redleap, wasting its speed and agility in the service
of a tape-bound department, which declines to sell the
animal at a high price for racing purposes. If this alleged
equine phenomenon exists, can’t Miller, M.L.0., buv it by
special Act of Parliament ?
* • • •
Chris. Moore (he got his license renewed the
other week, after nearly two years of standing down) has
been always credited with more skill than seemed good
for his reputation. People used to talk of him as a
magician, and the result of this was a public snorting and
shaking of the head if the overrated jockey rode a bad
race. To the present writer’s way of thinking, Chris.
Moore_ has ridden some bad races with perfectly good
intentions, and, a 3 for the incident which brought him to
grief, he wasn’t to blame for it.
* * * *
Por a real, gilt-edged, aristocratic and, at the
same time, exciting, international contest, a series of
Australia v. India polo matches would be exactly the
thing. The only stumbling-block is the fact that the
games differ; the Anglo-Indians playing the English
game somewhat after the manner of Rugby football,
while Australian polo follows the method of scoring and
playing associated with the native football. Another diffi-
culty would be the choosing of a representative team so
as to prevent the Cuff-and-Collar crowd monopolising the
places to the exclusion of the Geebungs,
• • * •
Quondong, who won the Welter Handicap at
Clarendon on Saturday, comes from Winton—the back-
blocks Q. town which, m the good days, used to run its
own £lOOO Melb. Cup Sweep.
* * * •
W. Davison is one of the most muscular athletes
yevseen upon a wheel; he is 23 years old, sft. 6in. high,
list. 71b. in condition. He has a magnificently developed
trunk and a pair of huge thighs. Davison’s fine physique
is the result of his work as a miner and farmer. He
learnt to ride only 12 months ago, and after three weeks
learning won a mile and a half race with 180yds. start,
and came second in a ten-mile race; he would have been
first but for falling. Before coming to the League’s
Autumn meeting to astonish even Bill Martin himself,
Davison, starting from scratch each time, won the whole
programme at Emmaville, N.S.W. ; viz., the half-mile,
mile, mile and a half, two miles, and three miles. Like
Bill. Martin, he does not drink or smoke. Davison is a
native of Hillgrove, N.S.W.
* * * *
A bike expert to The Bulletin --—Among the
horrors of the street are the bike-women who perch them-
selves on their wheels so as to make an obtuse angle,
with their insteps on the pedals, kicking straight out in
front, scaring dogs, tramcars, men, and horses. Others
have their saddles too low, and seem intensely interested
ln the dirt on the front wheel. To ride gracefully, the
saddle should be placed so that the rider can hold the
handles comfortably while sitting bolt upright, and the
ball of the foot should just rest upon the pedal when the
leg is at full stretch. Most women work their pedals like
prisoners on a treadmill—straight up and down —whereas
a graceful ankle-action is the essential sign of an accom-
plished cycliste. When the leg is fully extended and the
foot begins to rise the pedal should be clawed up with it
—brought up with a sweep, as it were. Done naturally,
it is wonderful how this increases the ease, grace, and
speed. To make pace, the handles should be gently
pressed towards the chin, as though trying to lift them,
and the pedals worked faster and not harder.
* * * *
■kit ! he English jockey, Brown, now riding at
Melb. suburban meetings, has none of the pretty style
that Tom Cannon and other old masters teach their
pupils. Brown is a very rough performer, but he seems
to have good judgment and a fairly cool head.
• * * *
Champion Memmott and Joe Byrne gave a long
and dreary exhibition billiard-match at Scott’s Hotel
Melbourne, last week. Memmott, who conceded only
1000 in 5000, seemed to be playing to make an interesting
game of it, but he didn’t succeed.
* * » *
The other evening, in the tobacconist’s shop of
Phin. Thompson (brother of the redoubtable Joe and
Barney), King-street, Sydney, were casually represented
four generations of the Thompson family—Phin’s father
aged well on to 90, Phin himself, his son, and his grand-
son, a boy of 10 or 12, who will presently be providing the
fifth generation. 6
* * * *
Lillie Bridge trots are bringing out big fields
every Wednesday night, and winners are not so easy to
pick as of yore. Now that the entrance-fees more than
cover the amount of the prize, the proprietors niio-ht well
-crease the weekly “fiver,” and give the trotting-horse a
* * * •
One of the best writers on the American trotting
horse says: “ Always work your horse after breakfast, as
a horse worked m the early morn will close up if brought
out to race on a hot day.” On these lines, what about
our before-daylight trainers of gallopers ?
» * * •
Imported Padlock’s stock have started auspici-
ously. Morphetville Plate was Security’s third first in a
month. Another m Key fairly skipped in at Maribrynong,
and Jas. Hayes made a haul. J °
* • • *
Circulated as an unheard-of occurrence that a
Sydney horse-reporter struck a small double the other
* • • *
A country tradesman, advised of his sween
success lately, tripped to town at once with a bundle of
notes to make the race “ safe,” and attend the gathering
But he fell in with two of the horsey “ elite,” got a ru™i
bender, saw nothing, and had nothing when kicked up
His prad started, but, naturally, finished down the course
1 ortune often knocks loudest at a man’s door when the
owner is away having a drink. en lne
* * * *
The Yankee trotter Llamath. who mav
over to meet champion Fritz, is vCScSS


CANNALIN CURE FOR PILES.
It may not be generally known that this remark-
able remedy is the preparation of a Sydney botanic
druggist, Mr. Albert Sharp, who, for some nine
years, has carried on a consulting business at
257 George-street, Sydney. Among many well-
known people it has cured may be mentioned Mr.
Thos. Spratt, of Hargraves, who was a dreadful
sufferer for 17 years; Mr. Mulholland, of Elong
Elong (18 years); and Mr. A. Rendell, of Top
Bingara (15 years). The charge of One Pound for
the six weeks’ course of treatment, carriage paid
to any colony, is a very reasonable one, largely
appreciated by many who could ill-afford more.
Copies of the 3rd edition of “ Piles and How to
Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp, can be obtained
free on application.*
71085
18231
35069
12613
16560
61908
97202
4234
83479
74456
50954
16591
20227
56276
63668
LOOOl9
34154
26159
44893
2838
64967
L 02965
93972
4854
17675
91997
88554
FETE ART UNION
NUMBERS.
LIST OF PRIZES.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79/
1022171
101185
99606
19380
23883
16491
93153
72773
7132
4082
56864
53117
16513
98735
99565
90800
19000
28914
11346
102813
26789
78630
94046
54223
19133
80058
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
3092
4274
33663
106915
44890
94514
90941
55180
85442
82852
101151
1293
63310
24803
28068
45845
33557
53158
8085
60670
26959
8130
16544
97913
50135
74327
f to the above numbers being correct.
(Signed)
SYD. J. LAW, Chairman.
J. SYDNEY
T. J. HOUGHTON
Hon.
Treasurers.
WM. TURNER
ANDREW THOMPSON
ALISON F. RYRIE
Members
of
Committee.
ALEX. M. MILNE, Mayor Balmain.
J. E. WEST, Chair. Trades Hall Committee.
SAMUEL SMITH, President Sydney District
Labor Council.
Holders of winning tickets may obtain prizes
this and every afternoon this week, between 3 and
5 o’clock, at No. 6 Temperance Hall, Pitt-street.
Full lists of winning numbers, with the names
and addresses of winners, now ready, and obtain-
able from all those who have had tickets on sale,
both in the city and throughout N.S. Wales.
A. S. GORDON, General Secretary.
‘♦WWKA RMCEAP
laiyutittiiM m
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
CYCLE SUPPLIERS
To His Excellency Lord Hampden.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
—FOR TIIE —
World-renowned HUMBERS, PREMIERS, etc.
W. J. C. ELLIOTT, Manager.
-PUBLIC SCHOOLS’ ATHLETIC
Jr ASSOCIATION.
EUSHTN ANNUAL SPORTS.
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND.
FRIDAY ... 18th SEPTEMBER.
SATURDAY ... 19th SEPTEMBER.
THE
Leading Athletic Fixture of the Year.
Bands of the “ Orlando” and “ Sobraon.”
11. N. SOUTHWELL,
J. MALONEY,
Hon. Secs.
Sporting.
CYCLISTS . .
Call or Write J. M. MAUD, 67 Liverpool-
street, SYDNEY, for
The FAMOUS
Seme Bicycle.
Price, <£l6los. to <£22 10s. Guaranteed for One
Year. Repairs a Speciality.
m
'■WW'/'
m
Here’s where we give you some good advice,
Get value for what you pay—
You can’t buy a Red Bird at any old price,
Because they’re not built that way.
Manufactured by
The Goold Bicycle Co,, Ltd,
Australasian Branch—
-64 King Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Factories at Brantford, Toronto, Montreal, St. John,
Winnipeg, Canada. Agents wanted everywhere.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Acting Manager .. Mr. M. Marcus.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING! GREAT REVIVAL
of the Stirring Emotional Drama
CALLED BACK.”
The Reigning Melbourne Attraction.
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD aa “PAOLO MACARI.”
Box Plan at Glen’s. Prices as Usual.
HE ATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY-
Lessee and Manager .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING 1
BLAND BOLT
and his Premier Dramatic Organisation, in the
Remarkably Exhilaratiting Sporting Drama,
“Tl)3 Prodigal Pa(igl)ter.”
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Elvy and Co’s.
THE LAST OF SIX, and other Stories, by
Ernest Eaveno ; Is. 3d. posted.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Hodson.
LAST THREE NIGHTS!
Of the Popular Australian Character Aotoi', Mr. Charles
Holloway, supported by an entirely NEW DRAMATIC
COMPANY, in the Great Sensational Drama,
“TJnder the G-aslight.”
Popular Prices of Admission—Dress Cirele, 3s ; Reserved
Stalls, 2s Gd; Stalls, 2s ; Family Circle, Is; and Gallery,
SIXPENCE. Box Plan at Niiholson’s.
ERNEST BLACKSTONE, Acting Manager.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. Hamilton.
SATURDAY NEXT, 12th SEPTEMBER, THE
BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
First. Production in Australia of
A MOTHER OF THREE.
An original Farce in three Acts, by CLO GRAVES (now
runnimr at the Comedy Theatre, London).
Prices, ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
i'HEATK E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson and
Musirrove.
THURSDAY, September 10—“ LADY OF LYONS.’
FRIDAY, September 11-“ CAMILLE.”
SATURDAY, Sept.’ 12, will be presented THE NOMINEE,
introducing to the Sydney public Mr. Nat C. Goodwin.
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co’s and A. Hordern & Sons’,
Haymarket. Prices as Usual. Day Tickets at Adams .
IVO LI T H E A T ft E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. llarry KicTtards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
GO High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIYOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO
83P* Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
J>RINCESS’S THEATRE MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
Hon. Ohas. H. Hoyt’s Musical Farce Comedy,
“A Trip to Cbioatowi).”
Latest, Brightest, Merriest and Funniest.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
gCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE
The SOLE AGENCY for these
beautiful instruments was secured by
our Mr. Nicholson during his recent
visit to Europe.
Pianos
CASH or on EASY TERMS.
Catalogues and Price Lists Gratis on application.
NICHOLSON & CO.
SYDRTEY.
J3RISBA3XTE
PERTH.
THE BEST
—IN—
THE TRADE.
STERLING
STAINLESS
HOSIERY
WITH THE DIAMOND BRAND.
TAKE NO OTHER—BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
FROM ALL DRAPERS.
no ARMY
of Operators Use
Ren)ii)gtoi).
One
QWC Z™° f ™ mUiO %- 250,000 in Daily Use.
REMINGTON” OPERATORS ARE NEVER OUT OF EMPLOYMENT.
THE NEW MODEL REMINGTON POSSESSES—
Remington
Typewriter.
Greatest Manifolding Power;
Lightest Touch—no heavy Iron Key Levers ;
Single Keyboard, only One Set of Keys for Operator to
learn ;
Lightest Running Carriage ;
New Speed Escapement;
New Patent Ribbon Gear ;
Permanent Alignment, without unnecessary mechanism ;
Automatic Release, Automatic Paper Guide, Ribbon Feed,
Margin Stops, etc., etc.
(Seventy Remington typewriters
Purchased from us and in use by the N.S.W. GOVERN-
MENT RAILWAYS. Adopted as the STANDARD
Writing Machine throughout the world.
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet of the New Model.
STOTT & NOARE,
(Established 1885)
SOLE IMPORTERS FOR ALL AUSTRALIA
49 Castlereagh-stJ., Sydney; 426 Collins-st., Melb.
Cheapest House
in
Australia.
European Prices.
Easy Terms
from <£t monthly.
Send
for Testimonials.
Uapatmrg, Had.yn.-All MAKERS.
PIANOS
I
BEALE & CO. Ltd., Sydney.
New Iron Framed
from
=£2s each.
Special Prices for
Export. •
Drop us a line of
inquiry
from anywhere.
W. W. GREENER’S
CELEBRATED
guns m Rifles
Can now be purchased
through all the princi-
pal dealers in the Aus-
tralasian colonies.
Genuine.—W. W.
Greener’sGunsundoubtedly
hold the unrivalled position
of being absolutely the best
—for Hard - hitting Quali-
ties, Pattern, Penetration,
Strength, Easy Handling,
Safety, Honest Workman-
ship and Beauty. Address:
C. W. Buckland, 16 Curral Road, Elsternwick, Melbourne
(Victorian representative) ; or Box 326, G.P.0., Sydney.
The BEST TUBE
for Cycles
IS THE
DUIW T9RE.
IT IS GUARANTEED
TWELVE MONTHS.
DOWRIOGE’S (late of Brisbane)
Monster Consultations.
25,000
Caulfield.
Run October 17.
at
C.
o.
MlelDourne
50 000 Run NovEMBBR 3 - 2
Six Years before the Australian Public.
£21,537 6s. DISTRIBUTED during 1895.
New Address : ELDON CHAMBERS,
16 Elizabeth-st., Hobart. Tasmania.
tffllH tO|H
These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam of Copaiba, Oubebs or In-
jections and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
out inconvenience.
I Sold by all Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. & Co.,
and
Australian Drug Co.
Each Capsule is
Stamped “
DO YOU KNOW
That in America, where there are scores
upon scores of high-grade wheels which
can hold their own in any part of the
world,
are recognised as leaders.
When you see one you’ll admit they are
“ The Standard of the World.”
We are adding to our list of agents.
GREVILLE TURNER, Ltd.,
City Cycle Exchange,
37 Market Street, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK
116 Pitt Street, SYDNEY (opposite G. P.0.).
The Original Cash Fielder.
* v r.r;
/ , : a ;
ii
Wl
m
a i
sties
Commissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughout
the World.
STARTING PRICE. COMMISSIONS EXECUTED.
Telegraphic Code—“ Westbrook, Sydney.” Telephone,
No. 1542.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there an
ONLY TWO COFFER PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CTtKSCE\'iy a'tuated 031
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway', and the other h
“ Ellis’ Kliig-stroct Coffee Palnw,” situated 5C
KING STREET, and near the General Post Cilice.
I'ropri. l.i CEO. W. ELLIS,
nessed when racing’. Even the brow-band of the bridle is
discarded. An American owner would seriously wipe a
speck of dirt off his horse before the start to reduce
weight.
* • * *
The paucity of jockeys who can ride at all
decently is being commented upon in the old strain up
country. As soon as a promising reinsman learns the way
he and his steed should go he invades the dazzling metro-
polis to start a brilliant career riding stiffs at pony
scrambles. There are hundreds of assorted steering pig-
mies in tight-fitting togs and dashaway hats around
Sydney whose method of living would furnish a startling
article. The majority are often glad enough to dine
sumptuously at a fourpenny chop-and-sausage factory.
And when they can’t raise 4d. they sell their waiskets, or
go without.
* * * *
There is a revival in Melb. matters aquatic.
Young Gid. Palmer, the St. Kilda enthusiast, is having a
5-rater built by the well-known Auckland builders, C. and
W. Bailey, with which he hopes to lower Gov. Brassey’s
colors in Nov. The new boat, a beautiful model, is 46ft.
long overall, 30ft. along waterline, with a beam of 9ft. 6in.,
and is to sail under the name of Uira, which in the Maori
tongue signifies lightning.
* * * *
On July 18th, at New York, a 15-hands horse
called Tycho Brahe jumped 7ft. 6Jin., breaking the world’s
record.
* * * •
Miles, the V.R.O. identity, is taking a six
months’ leave of absenoe, and his probable retirement is,
for no apparent reason, hinted at. The square ‘‘old”
man is well on the right side of sixty, a mere juvenile as
identities go, and it would be a pity for him to leave a gap
behind the V.R.O. office-counter for a thinner man to fill.
The strong contrast between secretary Byron Moore and
chief-clerk Miles strikes one as a desirable thing in busi-
ness management. The sec., utterly destitute of stummick
and taste for racing, is long-necked and suave. Miles is
the serious embodiment of sport, with lots of stummick, a
very short neck, and a somewhat short temper, which
serves to keep the office freejrom hangers-round. Yet an
obliging informant, with all.


GENERAL DEBILITY
and Indigestion
Made Her Rife Miserable, but She is
Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Read the testimony of Mrs. E. O.
Monro, Coburg, Victoria, whose por-
trait is also given:
m
w
a
.A.
“Some few years ago I suffered
terribly with indigestion and gen-
eral debility. I could not sleep,
and my condition was such as to
make my life miserable. None of
the many remedies I tried did me
any good, and I despaired of ever
getting better. One of my friends
told me of the blood-purifying and
strength-giving properties of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and I began taking it.
Before 1 had finished the first bottle
1 felt better, and was thus encour-
aged to give the medicine a thorough
trial. In all I used four bottles,
and then was perfectly cured of the
grievous trouble which had afflicted
me. I now recommend, to anyone
suffering as I did.
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
As a Splendid Nerve and Blood Medicine.
IELLII'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
ftIELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
IOTELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro* Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., Ltd.; Australian Drug Co.
Olm Connell &Co., Ltd.
BEAUTIFUL FLOWERS
—AT—
SEAHL’S,
SYDNEY’S PLOEISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.- Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal. —E. LENTIIALL
OI.DI'TKI.D (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria.'
Doctors begin to ukase that girls must not
clean their teeth.
Melb. Argus* in a leader on Macdonald,
the nudity man, mentions that Mac. claims to
have the sympathy of, amongst others, “Mr.
Edward Carpenter, whoever he may be.” To be
ignorant of the literature of the modern move-
ments it criticises is the misfortune of the Argus,
but to proclaim that ignorance thus is silly. Car-
penter’s poem, “Towards Democracy,” and his
book “ England’s Ideal ” contain the very essence
of the modern social movement.
“Diamond cut diamond.” Queensland
publican gives a patron one of his own cheques in
exchange for another cheque. Publican discovers
this cheque to be valueless; hooks it off to the
bank to stop his own cheque from being cashed.
Too late. It has been cashed, but —the man had j
been given two of Mine Host’s dishonored cheques
and only 2s. Gd. change! Hard luck that the pub.
patron should afterwards be prosecuted for “false
pretences ”!
The curse of Govt. Commissions. The
members of the Local Govt. Commission in Bris-
bane, who were receiving dfil Is. a day (and 10s.
hotel-allowance for country members), struck a
few weeks ago for £2 2s. daily. The strike lasted
a day, when Govt, caved in. Total cost of Com-
mission (just an excuse for junketing Ministerial
supporters in the metropolis—a 'sort of minor
C.M.G.-ship), .£2OOO. (By the way, some of the
strikers strongly advocate the hanging of all labor
agitators who stir up the workers into rebellion.)
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION. _
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Maoriland Parliament has recently had
under discussion a measure for the repression of
juvenile immorality. Whereupon the parsons have
raised the warwhoop from the pulpit, and rung the
tocsin from the steeple. “See to what your God-
less system of education has brought you ! ” But
it won’t do. Do they seriously believe that the
evil could be removed by half-an-hour’s perfunc-
tory catechism per diem ? Or are the passions of
the young “colonial ” to be subdued and mortified
by a close study of Hosea ? Or are the chosen
sheep to be yarded off (at Govt, expense) from the
goats outside ? It is perhaps well to remember
that in Europe the purlieus of a cathedral are
generally the local Alsatia.
The Eye-sight measure sent per post by
the inventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclougli,
the well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney,
is a wonderful little contrivance which will enable
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot of course be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection
such as long sight, short sight, old sight. Full
particulars from Messrs. Greenfield and Barra-
clough.*
Circular received by Sydney doctor :
Mrs. , having lately moved to , on the Southern
line, would be glad to accommodate a lady or gentleman
needing a comfortable country home. The air in is
very invigorating; and as Mrs. has a buggy and a
cow, boarders could be driven to and from the station and
.about the country, and they would be able to have plenty
of fresh milk and cream. Delicate persons would receive
every care and attention.
Belgium is trying to do away with Sunday
postal delivery. All new stamps have a coupon
attached, on which the words “not to be delivered
on Sundays ” are printed. If a person desires to
have letters delivered on Sunday or any other day,
the coupon must be torn off.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
The Best and Purest Dentifrice one can use; it
whitens the teeth, prevents decay, strengthens
the gums and sweetens the breath.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR,
A soothing, heating and emollient milk for beauti-
fying the skin; removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn,
Redness, Roughness, &c., and is warranted
harmless.
KOWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYEE,
Dyes the hair a natural and permanent Brown or
Black, Ask Druggists and Stores for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, England,
and avoid cheap, poisonous imitations.
Spring
NOW is the TIME to DO UP
Your HOUSES.
is
Send for Samples and Quotations
„ Coming.
H. H. GROTH & CO.,
Oil, Color and Glass Merchants,
PAPERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE,
Winsor & Newton’s Artists’ Material Depot,
PICTURES & PICTURE MOULDINGS.
529 George Street (Brickfield Hill),
SYDKTBY.
207
372
124
12DS
126
WISF
-
125
127
234
078
56
57
4>
&
%
B 2
sshrA j
—THE-
Australian
Needlewood
* IHjte Co., Ltd.,
G58 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest & Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE-
MARK
A.N.W5
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISPS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for. the
AUSTRALIAN
NEEDLE WOOD
PIPE>
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234— 3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207—
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/6
Case of 2 pipes, 13/6
B1207, 7/6 1356, 7/6
THESE PTPES MAY BE IT AD FROM
NEW ZEALAND-
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-streetand 27 Svran-
s.ton-street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE—Messrs. A. M. Hertzberg & Co., Brisbane, Q.
WESTRALIA— Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
5^5
C
TOREKEEPERS
s DEMERS
SOPPLIE
6.RSYKGS,
227 Lime Collins Si,
L-MUBOWIIE^,
Plum
Plum*
ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. lhis brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesihen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price I oJf' azor ’ ! n strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
A SK ANYBODY—even our competitors—and they will tell
you that VA L VOLINE CYLINDER and
ENGINE OILS are the STANDARD of LUBRI
CATING OILS.
Other makers have imitated the word Ydlvol'OlC very closely,
so be sure that EVERY PACKAGE bears
the following Trade-Mark,
PERDRL&U & CO,
>
Sole
Agents,
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
A Pot of Money For You t
Perhaps a Fortune awaits yon, or an Income for life, or, if you are content to earn a few pounds
occasionaly, easily and honestly, we will send you something by means of which you may acquire
either. It will not only please and astonish you, hut will start you on the “Royal Road To
Wealth,” as it has done to thousands in Europe and America. Send postal note for Half-a
Crown and you will receive by return post full value for your outlay, satisfaction guaranteed
This is a genuine announcement; No humbug, or catchpenny fraud. Send at once if you desire to
become rich —Address —C. Smith & Co., 264 Russell St., Melbourne.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London MDdical Record.
Food f ° r
infants
Benger’s Pood is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
DrugCo„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.


s^-"
*
m
■
* » n&J
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED AND
iF'TTIR.ESJI.'Sr HERBAL
ALFALINE REMEDIES
(Registered)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and JNerwe Remedies,
NOT ONLY. THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES, BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION To THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OYER 10 YEARS,
f AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
Vitality Restored
ALFALINE
VITALITY PILLS
Are the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Austra-
lian public for many years, and stood a test which
may well he envied by all other manufacturers of
similar remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world* anti are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the Unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bility, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
Wlio have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
neW life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the meatts of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills—l/- 3,'-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Special Double course,
43/6 ; ordinary Course, 23/6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, (5/-,
and 3/-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -Bo2es, 23 0,
12/-, 6/-, and 3/-.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43,6, 23/6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figufe aria
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6,'-
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder-Boxes, 6 -.
Alfaline Injection Powder— Cures the Whites.
Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— Boxes, 6/- and
3/-.
Alfaline Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, 1/- and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes —Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, 1/-; posted, 1/6
Alfaline Bath Tablets— Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lates the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/-; posted, 1/6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c., &c.
List of the Alfaline Remedies.
Blood Purified
ALF ALINE
LOCK CURE FILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonio.
This Blood Remedy has been profit to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It is not the Usual Meteury remedy,
but a real, genuine
Purely Herbai Remedy.
whibh is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It Kdi no equal;
inasmuch as it dobs not permit the least particle
bf IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALFALINE LOCK PILLS bompletely
Cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications. , •
those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint ho im-
parted to thbir children.
Spebial Powerful Course ' ... 43/G
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/G
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr RassmusSen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices.—With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/-
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
Important. address your letters to
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to hi 4
Head Office : 547 George -street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus —PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALE LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
WARNING.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should
always obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlet
sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or to his Branches;
Nerves Cured.
4
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness aiid
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, Wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, I consider ybu are deserving of success,
wmch I do muse heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The Well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney BuLtETiN, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special Weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmussen.— Dear Sir,—l think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfalihe Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially oh my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by th'eir
use.—Yours, R. A. LTJCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of tile Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from yout
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later: —“The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill; his mates
intended taking him ih a Waggon to Wangaratta
(about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wish Fulfilled.
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
ine of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel, as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly,
N. BARSEN.
Selected Testimonials
Skin and Blood Cured.
»
Canhiiig Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen,
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but Was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN'.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross* W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Culre.
tIERR Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the yeah of 18711 was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty ih walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did ho good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. Oh
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills; since then I have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, With Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, With the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-'
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours vety gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
Witness : Edward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,—l hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me* allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE lIA GERMAN.
As witness: John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castleteagh-street,
Sydney.
-A. "Vsiil.Ts.Ek'fcjle nF'sree Book.
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains nruch valuablr
information, and many useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality, as. well as
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will he
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of testi-
monials, a 3 well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office:
AND AT IDS INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES
Melbourne: 150 Bourke Street
Adelaide: 151 Bundle Street
Brisbane 100 Queen Street
N.Z.: 91 Lamhton Quay, Wellington
West Australia; Tlay and William Streets, Perth .


Sweating the doctor. The Brewarrina
(N.S.W.) Oddfellows advertise for a lodge doctor
at 6d. a week per member, married or single, in-
cluding medicine!
“ While the Billy Boils,” by Henry Law-
son, with eight plates by F. P. Mahony, is already
in its third thousand, and may be had from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney. Post free 5/6.*
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
Tasmania has celebrated its Arbor-day.
Enthusiasm at the function was not violently ex-
pressed, perhaps because, in a well-timbered
country, familiarity with gum-trees and “ horizon-
tal ” scrub breeds contempt for ornamental tree-
planting. A powerful stump-extractor at work
rooting up the surrounding forest would appeal to
the sensibilities of Tasmanian school children
infinitely more than the ordinary Arbor-day flum-
mery and the speeches of local aldermen. Forest
scenery is already photographed on the very souls
of the rising generation of Tasmanians. The
young people of both sexes find cheap and harm-
less Sunday and holiday amusement in clearing
patches of scrub and building well-appointed
mia-mias among the ferns and wattles of seques-
tered gullies adjacent to the towns. Round Hobart
and Launceston there are dozens of “fairy
bowers,” “ grass-tree huts,” and other more or less
appropriately-named sylvan retreats —standing
monuments to the artistic bashfulness of Tas-
manian lads and lasses, who appear to know just
as much about arbors as is good for any respect-
able community.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The vagaries of Party Government. When
the recent plebiscite motion came on in N.S.W.
Assembly, the Reid Ministry decided with much
firmness to denounce it and vote against it.
Whereupon the Opposition unexpectedly resolved
to support it —and a Govt, defeat was imminent.
But the secret was badly kept, and when the
Opposition’s intention leaked out, the Ministry
promptly faced about and decided to support it,
while the Opposition somersaulted and determined
to vote against it. Premier Reid, the_ cynics say,
was just warming up in his denunciation when
Syd. Smith (the managing Tom Slattery of the
Freetraders) rushed breathlessly in and gave his
chief the “ tip.” Whereupon Reid backed water
and steered right round this awkward rock. The
solidarity labor-men usually answer the crack of
the Freetrade whip, but for once in their existence
they cracked the whip for both parties. Also,
leading articles for the daily papers, written and
set up upon the assumption that the Govt, would
oppose the plebiscite, were blue-pencilled, and the
ready writers who had written the proposal down
set about writing it up with all possible despatch.
Eno’s “ Fruit Salt.”— ln pimples and blotches
on the face, sallowness of the skin, and depression
of spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the
natural way in which it relieves the system of
effete or poisonous matter, which, if retained,
poisons the blood ; and its advantages over fruit
are that it can be always at hand when required.
Its preparation has been truly styled one of the
triumphs of modern chemistry. In hot or foreign
climates it is invaluable. It allays nervous excite-
ment, and restores the nervous system to its proper
condition (by natural means). In the nursery it
is beyond praise. Sold by all chemists and stores.*
Writes “Another Shark” :
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos “Divorce by Mutual Con-
sent,” please print this rather pedantic note. Divorce is
not, and never has been, “in the eyes of the law merely
a civil contract.” In considering the subject of
“ marriage,” a careful distinction must be drawn between
(1) An agreement to marry, which is a contract, (2)
Marriage, the fact or ceremony, civil or religious, which
induces the status of (3) Matrimony or marriage. This
last—matrimony—is not a contract but a sfafws, and one
of the distinguishing marks of a status is that you cannot
vary by contract the special rights and duties attaching
to it. Marriage can be ended only by judicial process;
but the most important characteristic distinguishing it
from a contract is, that the incidents attaching to it are
fixed by a uniform rule of law and depend in no sense
whatever upon the agreement of the parties. These two
attributes of the marriage relation take it completely out
of the category of any contracts known to English law.
I have no particular objection to divorce being granted
by mutual consent; but there is no need to base the
argument for it on a false analogy.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Set 22 JAPANESE, 9d.
„ 8 HELIGOLAND, Bd.
„ 12 ARGENTINE, 6d.
Best Variety in the Colonies.
Packets: 30 different, 6d.; 60, Is.;
100, 2s. 6d.; 150, 55.; 200, 10s. Many
very rare. All postage, 2d. extra.
Sheets on approval. Price list free.
Wm Ackland,
162 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Still the Leading Pipe
GBD
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD,
AGAINST WHICH NONE CAN COMPETE.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Every woman, Old, Young-, Married, or Single,
will find HEALTH and HAPPINESS by using
“ORANGE LILY,” the new, registered
and bona-fide treatment for Female Complaints, call at
26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney. Lady in attendance.
He those Sydney parsons’ smoke-nights :
In Greenland people smoke in church.
Writes “ Comp.” The advantage of
machinery is cheapness of production and
consequent low price of resultant, thereby
bringing the article within the purchasing
power of a larger circle. This does not
apply to the linotype. Tor instance, the daily
papers will not be reduced in price, nor will the
cost of advertising; but the proprietors’ profits
will be enormously increased at the expense of the
discharged compositor. In fact, this invention
sucks the public and spoon-feeds Fat Man.
Why have prayers for rain when there is
the certainty of procuring wet weather with an
agricultural show ? Wheresoever the farmers
gather together the Lord sendeth a downpour.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
Cloudy
Household
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath.
Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, etc.
Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., London, England,
MANUFACTURERS OF SCRUBB’S ANTISEPTIC SKIN SOAP,
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIO T T BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY,
PURITY!
When asking for
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits,
Emphasize the name
ARNOTT’S
and thus make sure of
PURTTY.
Beuiare of Imitations!
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Beg to advise all who are suffering from a COUGH to use
Dr. Thompson’s Cough Linctus, Is. per Bottle.
To make PASTRY Light and Wholesome? use
A. Soyer’s Baking or Yeast Powder, 6d. per Tin.
Of all Grocers.
To enjoy MEAT, GAME, EISH, etc., use
Soul’s Australian Belish, 6d. per Bottle.
To be had everywhere.
If you have INDIGESTION—the Bane of Mankind —use
Stearns Compound Essence of Pepsine, 2s. per Bottle.
If you are troubled with ECZEMA, or any Irritation of the Skin, Pimples, etc., use
Dr. Bumstead’s Sarsaparilla, 4s. per Bottle.
Our Stock comprises mostly all Goods known in the Drug business, and of the best quality
•only. Nearly everything under drug advertisements in this paper we keep.
PRESCRIPTIONS ACCURATE! 1 Y COMPOUNDED AT A MODERATE RATE.
WASHINGTON 11. SOUL & CO.,
Ms.P. SOCIETY, N.S.W..
150 & 260 Pitt Street, Sydney, and at
Ch.urcli aixd Pliillip Streets, Parramatta.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
1
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
m
Contains over 300 Apartment?. jjßß|
Furnished with ali Modern Lux _r>
Two minutes from the Park.
Kensington Gardens, Imreria:
Institute, and in' the midst of the
Fashionable guarlei MODERATE
Gloucester Ron-d,
TARIFF.
London, SVV.
I'iAlLr v
M P
M:vn: i t;i m;’ Dnvrloi
Publications.
71 /. > 1 : FIRST ISSUE :
ACISIr2 1 I 3 t) • • SEPT. 10 th.
A Weekly Record of (l S* lIT © t
the Game. * *'V * »’V "
CONDUCTED by C. T. B. TURNER, J. A.
DOBBIE, 8.A., and W. C. PERKINS.
A RELIABLE Resume of all International, In-
. tercolonial, Club, Junior, and Country
Cricket. Giving full Scores of Matches, Chatty
Comments, Illustrations and Biographies of Pro-
minent Cricketers.
Price: Publishers —
Threepence. GORDON & GOTCH.
ft _ _ I J J An Australian Song
OO“ € € I By an Australian
Writer.
COMPOSED BY AN AUSTRALIAN
and sung by
Australia’s Popular Vocalist, Miss MAGGIE STERLING,
With Unprecedented Success.
TUST PUBLISHED, “ Coo-ce ! ” an Australian Ballad.
** The Words by HOWARD C. COG ULAN; the Music
composed by W. J. TURNER.
PRICE : TWO SHILLINGS, POST FREE.
™^” W .H .<SL€N& CO.,
MUSIC-SELLERS AND PUBLISHERS,
272 and 274 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE,
And at 359 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
r-THB^
Ballet (Siri,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- her
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life, and what she
does after the opera.
Post Free 1/ .
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, Gr.P.O., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application.
o
IN POSITION
PcafQcss
AND HEAD
NOISES
Relied
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
SENSE EAR DRUMS. _
New Scientific Invention.
— No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
of all
I Survey,
MY VIRTUES there Is none
to dispute,
From the land all round
to the sea,
NO DISEASE will reign
over me.
A A A
RHEUMATISM
GRAVEL AND KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
COLDS - - FEVERS
INFLUENZA
AAA
POSTED TO ANY PART OF THE
WORLD ON RECEIPT OF P.O.O.
COLEMANE & SONS’
WORLD-FAMED
EUCALYPTE
The ONLY PURE IN
the World.
EXTRACT
Brawlin near Cootamundra
New South Wales
Hotels.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar
Proprietor.
SALISBXJ3RY HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
Private Boarding Establishment,
(Within Three Minutes of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONS Visitors. SPECTAi
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
Hoverty Pointers 1
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Tankard’s Family Hotel,
Lonsdale Street
(next. Law Courts),
MELBOURNE*
Under New Management. First-class BOARD and
RESIDENCE, £1 per week (Single Room); 4s. daily.
W. L. NEALE, Manager.
P
HILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street), *
MELKOUKNE.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentleman
—from 18s. per week upwards.


Business Announcement.
PULVERMACHER
WORLD-FAMED
GALVANIC BELTS
Cure nervous Weakness & brain Fag,
CURE RHEUMATISM . GOUT & SCIATICA,
Cure liver & Kidney
Cure sleeplessness,
AND
INVIGORATE
THE DEBILITATED CONSTITUTION.
These appliances have been recommended by
several of IT. M. The Queen’s Physicians, and are
prescribed by the leading medical men of the world.
Pamphlet, “ GALVANISM”—Nature s Chief Re-
storer of Impaired Vital Energy, sent fiee anywhere.
GSBDBfi & JEBOafl,
Electricians & Opticians, 438 George Street, Sydney
THE SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
i
k
o
The E. C. JOHNSTON
Self-Baster Lubricator
—AND—
STRAINER PATENT.
Dr. F. ASHWELL, Glebe Road.
Your Patent Self-Baster has been m use in.my
house for some weeks, and has given great satisfaction
In the cooking of joints and poultry it has proved a great
success—saving great trouble to the cook, and nnpiow g
th, The V Self-Baster°°simple in construction, possesses all
the advantages claimed for it. F.A.
AST The shallow dish fits inside the deep dish.
N B —Send bottom measure of Baking Dish,
length and breadth to your ironmonger.
FACTORY!
9 Addison Eoad, Marrickville, N.S.W.
The Celebrated _
POKER MACHINE
A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
fCIGARS FREE
DRO
i'i'iliiiniiiliiiiiiiiiii~iSTTf!mTiliTrmn»lli
n iTTTfiiiirnmiiimiHmlllllinm!niumiiUllllLUUilitiiltiil!
HOME ROLE TOBACCO CO., 639 George St.,
SYDNEY. Agents for Australia.
TTiIIIDKESsEUS ANtt
Jtl. To the Trade
WIOffIAKtBS.
Just -Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HA HI, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed (Hair, malarge
varietv of shades; also, Turned Hair ffroinlo to
,24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair all lengths.
(Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets Wig Blocks,
‘Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
'Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
(and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
*to select from. We always have on hand a large
'variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair _ Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
(Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
'Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
tsj-.b.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality ; best manufacture,
newest design, 1(K 6d.; wire foundation from
4s Gd. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
-,nd design 10s. Gd. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. Gd’. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
qu° ta S AlG «5 t AITKEN.
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
««0 A 083 George Street, Sydney.
rupture.
linmedLiate elief.
PRACTICAL HERNIA EXPERTS.
BRITISH SCIENTIFIC TRUSS COMPANY.
app” (Take the Lift—Pitt-street Entrance)
STRAND ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Write for particulars. _
[)o )iot ]ct your wives Suffer,
HUSBANDS I Orange Lily-
* ‘ To every Female Weakness, and makes life worth
jiving. 26 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY. Lady in
attendance.
“ They say Ireland’s backbone is gone to
America. Why not the jawbone ! Enylis i
Sassenach paper.
Some men are prepared to swear by Demo-
cracy, to love it, to revere it, and even to die tor
it; in fact, they’ll do anything but pay for it.
People’s Newspaper.
One great duty of a statesman is to preserve
the confidence of the nation in the impartiality
and dispassionateness of the Supreme Court. 1
man who either actively or passively condoned le
infamous Mount Rennie trial will ever have Ihe
Bulletin’s vote.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. BocK-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. 1 jar go
bottles Is. Gd. everywhere.*
The Sydney Lager Beer Brewing Co.,
floated by Messrs. Jones and Black, threatens to
be a huge success. The beer brewed by the system
in Melbourne (and now being sold by Mr. James
Kidman in Sydney) is really undistinguishabie
from first-class German beer, and will be retailed,
when the Sydney brewery begins operations at
about half the price of imported. Also, it will be
supplied only to hotels which contract to draw it
through the company’s ice-machines. Sydney
pants for cheap, light beer in hot weather ; to
drink the ordinary heavy beer is simply to poison
yourself. The Australian bent is all lor light
liquor, and The Bulletin predicts that within
five years the other breweries will be compelled to
add lager-plants to their establishments.
“The Ballad of Brunner Mine ” (writes a
corresrjondent) recalls to me my experience of M.li.
Scotchmen. I was a railway-clerk m charge of a
small but unpronounceable station. Ihe u-loot
son of a wealthy Scotch landowner had died ol
bronchitis, and as the family burying-ground was
30 miles away the father notified me that the
corpse would go by the 11 a.m. train next day.
The M.L. charge for conveyance of a corpse is is.
per mile; children under 15 years, half-rates.
About 10.30 the cortege arrived at the station.
M‘Flint stepped into the office to pay the carriage
and obtain the tickets, and the • following conver-
sation took place: “ Weel, laddie, hoo is she tha
day?” “Very well, thank you, Mr. M Flint,
allow me to express my ” “
stick ure sympathy in ure pouch ; lonald is with
the Laird, an’ Heaven is a gey fine place,
ye ken. Hoo much da tha tuckets come to
wi’ Tonald’s ? ” “M Os. lOd Mr. M Flint.
“ Hoots, pe tamned to you ! She 11 no pay <£4
Os. lOd; hoo d’ye get that?” “live return
fares at 10s. 2d. is £2 10s. lOd., and the
charge for the coffin is 30s. Thirty teenie.s . na,
na, Tonald is only a laddie, and she goes ha -price.
Why she sent Tugald twa year ago ta tha same
place for 155., and a corpse is only a corpse. ; ,
“Perhaps Tugald was a child, Mr. M llm .
“In coorse, in coorse, so is Tonald. Na ll
pe tamned if she’ll pay thretty _ shilling. n
despair I walked to the telegraph-instrument and
called up the District office. The chief clerk, m
reply to my question, said that if deceased was
over 15 years of age full rates must be paid, and I
was not to allow the corpse on board the train till,
the money was handed over. lacquamted Mr
M‘Flint with the decision, and the old man
broke out into a storm of blasphemy that almost
twisted the rails in front of the station. The train
came in and M'Flint insisted upon the coffin
being taken on board, but the guard and porters
refused to unlock the doors of the box-truck with-
out instructions. The old man swore ; the mother
and sisters wept and tried to hang on to the neck
of the unfortunate writer ; and the friends came
round and tried to cajole the porters to unlock the
door. At last one of the mourners paid the full
amount, and the coffin and tram went on their
way. Three months after the mourner sued
M‘Flint for ill 10s. and three months interest,
being money paid to the railway dept, lor con-
veyance of the corpse of the defendants
hiirial-oround. Mr. M I
yance oi wie uuip&c ——atopi^f
4*ld to the family burial-ground. Mr. M Flint
M 15s. into court, and pleaded that his
-ill 111 fnnlYl fllO TUI I W G.V fl (11 Ml. .
pam ±ob. hi tiw u, 1 , ,
“ freend ” ought to recover from the railway dept.,
‘ ‘ for, ye ken, Tonald was only a laddie. V erdict
for plaintiff for <£llos. and costs no interest.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
111 Try It.
I
Posted (under cover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10,0
Sole Agents:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, GBO-632 George-st„ Sydney
MOW
owl
THE
wm
BEST
TH
MAR
!J>HE FAMOUS ACORN WHISKY.
JUSTUS VAN MA UR IK’S CELEBRATED
J DUTCH CIGARS.
DIRECT FROM THE PLANTATIONS.
Horace P. Ellis,
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
wsisM
&
V_>
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s
‘ 4 P arrot Bran d.
Prescribed by Physicians.
VALUABLE in Cases of
INDIGESTION,
Biliousness,
Acidity, and
Hervous Reaclache.
A SAFE APERIENT for
INFANTS,
LADIES, and
INVALIDS.
The Family Medicine.
Artificial Teetfi,
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist, 38 Wynyard-square.
COMPLETE (Upper and Lower) G'ld Medal Sets
of nerfectlv - fitting Teeth, £5. iuasi icatioii
guaranteed. These are the best and lowest in price tliatcan
be made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
gums. Old misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering »tth o»n
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate after
if wanted. Entire absence of pain during extractions by
the aid of nitrous oxide, chloride of ethyl, or cocaine.
Fee 5s No danger or ill-effects follow. Send for Treatise
on Teeth. Consultations Free. Fees precisely the same
as advertised. Telephone 2107. Established 1879.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental surgeon,
28 WYN YARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert’s), SYDNEY.
rilO MINING COMPANIES, BATTERY OWNERS
1 AND OTHERS.
Increase your yields by Saving the Fine Gold
and Pyrites by the use of
Wynne and Tregurtha’s
Patent Battery Plates.
This Invention, lately patented, revolutionises the ordi-
nary battery treatment of ores, for by its-use copper-
plates, quicksilver, and chemicals are enUrely dispensed
with The Wynne and Tvegurtha Patent Battery Hates
are made of iron, cast with peculiarly-shaped ribs, lhey
arc fitted in a wooden frame, and take the place of the
ordinary copper-plates and blanket tables. The tailings
on leaving the stamper boxes pass over the plates which,
from their construction, catch the fine gold and pyrites,
allowing the sand and water to flow away. When the
plates are fully charged with the concentrates they are
then tilted backwards by means of a lever, throwing the
contents into a trough underneath. In practical use
much better results have been obtained by these plates
than by the ordinary copper ones, the yield of gold being
increased by fully 10 per cent. Excellent results have
been achieved in the treatment of refractory ores, wheie
the "-old is associated with some foreign mineral, winch
has moved deleterious to the mercury and causing the
loss of the gold. The plates are strong simple in con-
struction, and easily handled, and can be obtained from
J. MILLER «3c CO.,
Machinery Merchants, Dana Street, Ballarat.
sure, [m.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
G3T Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘Mandarin’ Razors,
with fully, warranted
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
there with the strongest most tender skms
are unanimous in saying that with no
other Razors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy ana
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbenz’s. Made
bv A. Arbenz, Jougne, _ -—■ «
France, and Birmingham. Introducer of the
original and only genuine Gem air guns. G' sl st
uponhavingguns marked “Arbenz,” . with trade
mark “A” in Swiss cross for first qualitj, and B
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality.
Principal Importers.
LOST, by EVERY WOMAN who uses “ORANGE
LILY,” all Pain and Suffering, no matter of
how' long standing. A LEGITIMATE .REMEDY for
LEGITIMATE purposes only. 26 Imperial Arcade,
Sydney. Lady in attendance.
Business Announcements.
PYRAUCIDE!
For the PREVENTION and ERADICATION
CodSiD Motl)!
WOOLLY APHIS & ROOT FUNGUS.
Write for Pamphlet.
Result of Trials-100 Trees treated no Moth; 1 Tree not
treated,.full of Moth.
Price : 1 Gallon, 5/6 ; 2 Gals., 10/- ; 4 Gals., 17 6
One Gallon does 25 Trees.
SHIRLEY, CLAYTON & CO.,
52 and 54 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
roleur's Original Celebrated Toilet Receives.
Thousands sold annually in London and Paris.
T7VERY refined Lady should possess one, nifornia ion
E invaluable for inexpensive home treatinent of
Complexion, Hands, Freckles, Wrinkles Teeth Gieyjlmr,
Eve-lashes &c., &c., an easy method of becoming
beautiful and remaining so ! Price, 2s. 6d. ; P°s** iee -
Box 1076, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Years dyeing
TOR THE LADIES.
"W. O- EIXjIDIRXXDC3-IB & 00.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRIi FT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by 'post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
57
S¥i/%.OS£ll»k*S :
ASTHMA CURE
xhe ORIGINAL scotch cure.
A Perfect Remedy for
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, SHORTNESS OF
BREATH, HAY FEVER, INFLUENZA.
Unrivalled in giving Instantaneous Relief,
followed by a Permanent Cure. Thousands oi
letters testify to its excellent qualities.
Insist on Mackili.'S Cure. Refuse Imitations.
01 all Chemists, everywhere, in Tins.
iAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Publications
TTENRY FARMER S Operatic Selectiong for VIOLIN
11 an( j PIANO. “Martha, Robert le Diable,
“Crown Diamonds,’’ “Lucrezia Borgia, William
Tell” “Faust” “Un Ballo in Maschera, II Trova-
tore” “Les Huguenots.” Is. Cd. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from t"e Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swasston Street, MELBOURNE.
Qeo. Robertson & 00-,
361 & 363 Georoe Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Retail Booksellers Si Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-Baskets. Smokers Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet _
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
~mtSIG IN the HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
PATENT
GOLD MEDAL
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out on©* The solemn I salm*
the soul-stirring Hyn n, the cheer-
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of t-lie
“Sydney Bulletin."
Campbell’S - Gem” Melodeon price only 10/8
Kkn c r iase
Friends no Longer + “Love’s Guardian.”
“’NFATH THE WATCHING STARS.” “LOVE’S
VESPER HOUR.” “OH ! HONEY WILL YOU LUB
HIS COON,” by Lindsay Lennox. These Popular Songs,
(id- cacli, of all dealers. Catalogues of Hundreds of
Popular Songs, Dances, etc., at I!(l cadi, lost Free,
from the Publishers.
jJg.Te-t.QH & Co., LONDOS,
And 203 Swanston-street, MEUIOUIDiE.
SONGS of THE AULD GOUNTRIE
(Popular Scotch Songs) «
EA BURNS’ SONGS— IO4 pages - - *J m
OU (Solfa and Old Notation combined.) ■/
Bound in Cloth, 2>
aa SCOTTISH SONGS - - - - ■(/«
ZU (Allan's Morven Collection.) Five parts now ■/
ready (20 songs in each part). Bound in Cloth, 2/-
m SONGS OF SCOTLAND - - nl m
(Without words.) For Piano or Organ. ■*/
Violin Parts, ed.
ALLAN’S REELS, STRATHSPEYS, O/„
and General Dance ’Music. Violin Part, (id. */ “
All the foregoing songs and music, which are ex-
ceedingly popular in the old country, will be sent post
free to any address in Australia oii receipt of P.O, or
M.O payable to—
MOZART ALLAN, Music Publisher,
70, South Portland St., GLASGOW, SCOTLAND.
Write for detailed catalogue of other publications
and songs , Post Free.
A US T R A L I A N TALES,
By MARCUS CLARKE. Price 2/-, postage 4d.
APPLY: Mrs. Marcus Clarke, MELBOURNE.
“The greatest literary genius of Australia.” — Mark Twain.
A
POST FREE-K-^
\/atci!es-Clocks-Jewellery-Birthday*
Wedding z CHristeiMg Presents
HNeM/lAFJ- 1755177-ELIZABETri ST*
OPPOSITE C:P.Q-
MELROURNE-


An. Englishman has started a big opossum
arm in Kentucky, where young opossum is es-
teemed so highly as to command fancy prices for
table purposes.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
o,7*°. peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
-so ot this issue.*
Gov. M‘Gregor gives a curious instance of
i passions of the Papuans. A
little boy fishing in a creek was seized by a croco-
u U ] K cam< i d °ff- The father, mad with grief,
rushed out, seized his bow and arrow, and almost-
tataily shot the first man he met in the groin.
Uccurrences of this kind are not infrequent.
Horses, Sheep and Cattle Ailments
Condy s Fluid is sold by all Chemists.
Speedily Cured by “ Condy’s Fluid.”
HT-Pf 3,1 * -? UELETIN > —-Re Centralian frogs.
While travelling far out some years ago with a
black boy our water became exhausted, and we
jT-di 6 01n ® a perish ” when the boy informed me
Plenty water sit down.” Proceeding to a mat
oi mulga leaves that had collected in a depression,
he turned them oyer and disclosed a number of
bulky frogs. Taking a twig in one hand and a
pannikin in the other, he began a rapid prodding
oi the frogs, causing them to jump and discharge
their cargo of water, which he dexterously caught
in the pannikin. In a minute or two he presented
me with a drink of clear, cold water. I drank it
all right.— Percy Hodskinson, L.S. [Next.—
Ed. B.] L
SIX YEARS’ TEST.
60,000 IN USE.
RELIABLE, DURABLE,
and RAPID.
EASIEST RUNNING
TYPEWRITER
KNOWN.
requires less
MOVEMENTS
TO OPERATE.
MANIFOLDING
UNEXCELLED.
HOTEL . . .
. . AUSTRALIA.
RATES:
12S. Id. per Day
UPWARDS; INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
m
MIGHT
smith
t hah
CORRECTIONS
EASILY MADE.
KEYS ALL LOCKED
AT END OF LINE.
TRIPLEX RTBRON
MOVEMENT.
DIRECT
IN T E RCH ANG E A RLE
, PLATEN.
FIXED ROTARY
TYPE-BRUSH.
Tfo Smith
ypeuirifir Sales
_____ EXCEED ALL OTHERS.
CottTvfntlttt 1 ? Kard'S > r«S”„t°Bri? ol,rt »", «4 Supreme
— gas* -a
S ° le l Importers Australasia:
HEAD OFFICES :
. 1,2, 3 VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY;
* —AND AT —
-AND AT —
MELBOURNE, BRTSB ANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, DUNEDIN,
AUCKLAND, SUVA, and HONOLULU.
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd.
IMOIU>OICVH.I> 1870.
Directors :
Hon. a THORNTON, M.L.C.
(Chairman.)
Dr. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., J.P.
Hon. F. B. STJTTOR.
Registered under the Companies
Act, 1890.
CHIEF OFFICE IN NEW SOUTH
AVALES :
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES
all PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURIvENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditions Liberal. Security LTiidLoubted.
, -T. M. M'CRAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
!LM
I
Wk
QC
LjlJ
•m
m
m
-i-fts
:5S*t‘
yj^Sag
1% ,T - 'v * ■■ '" : . ,
O
<
HH8
- ,v •.*• -
HcrralPs NydraOlic QOartz Mill.
*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ .
The Fastest Crusher in the World—Wet or Dry.
GOLD U K?NG T AMAtcrMATORTw" 11 PartiCU “‘ B ' °' MERRALL ' S MILL “»
A. G. MITCHELL & CO.,
Sole Agents for New South Wales. //,S The Strand , SYDNEY.
Choice
Atcherley & Dawson.
Awarded FIRST PRIZE and . SPECIAL SILVER MEDAL at the Metro-
,. . . . i , politan Slxow, 1895. These Teas also gained the same
distinction m Queensland. Ihese Unrivalled Teas are supplied to Consumers Direct at Lowest Rates
Samples Gratis. DELIVERED FREE at ANY TOWN IN THE COLONY
All Grades and Varieties of Tea kept in Stock.
257 GEORGE STREETSYDNEY—-also at MELBOURNE & BRISBANE.
The largest & Oldest Establishment in Sydney.
Suits, 42/-; Trousers, 12/6.
.JOHN GRAHAM, bio George street, Sydney
(near PARK STREET).
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
fiTA"
wits®
mm
mi
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Jjocornoti ves,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & GO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Coeoniat. Manager.
Also Representative for the “ THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.
McCracken’s City Brewery Ltd., Melbourne.
McCracken’s p a j e Ale—Emu Brand.
1896 KTEW BREW, Mow Ready.
HALF the PRICE of any British and Foreign Ales, its quality being EQUAL TO ANY
IMPORTED. tSS- GET A TRIAL CASE !
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
A Pure Tobacco Dip. Best and Cheapest in the Market.
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP.
A.T3aolu.tely Destroys Ticks andL Lice. Cures and Prevents Scab and
Nicotine Mange Cure (in bottles), 1/6; pts., 2/6 each. Nicotine Blight Cure (in bottlei), ,1/6
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO., “Rialto,” Collins-street, MELBOURNE; 63 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Pootrot.
pts., 2/6 each.


Tbe |V|(it(ial Lift loSOraocc Coippaijy
Z. 0. BENNIE, General Manager for Australasia. OF NEW YORK.
The Largest, Wealthiest, and Most Progressive Life Insurance Company.
ASSETS (December 31, 1895)
RESERVE FUND
SURPLUS
INCOME for 1895 ...
NEW BUSINESS PAID FOR IN 1895
INSURANCE and ANNUITIES IN FORCE
... £45,423,762
39,907,014
5,516,748
9,978,938
... 30,296,933
184,614,877
PLANS OF INSURANCE TO SUIT ALL REQUIREMENTS .
For information thereof apply to
TV MANAGER,
COMPANY’S BUILDING-, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Or at the Branch Offices— Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
ALL
v
a
v
o
D^COBA77I^ >
4>
o
ASPINALL YOUR OWN HOMES.
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL can be used
successfully by an amateur, and
should be in every house. * For
touching up and re = enamelling
Bedsteads, Chairs, Screens,
Vases, Baths, Hot Water Cans,
&c., &c., it is invaluable, and is
useful for repainting Cupboards,
Doors, Wainscots, and all articles
of Wickerwork, Metal, or Glass.
A few tins of ASPINALL will
completely transform a shabby
room with very little trouble or
expense. Be careful to use good
brushes, as by that means the
best results can be obtained.
DURABLE «nd EFFECTIVE.
COLOURS EXQUISITE. BRILLIANT GLOSS.
XiADX CXCLIBXS SKOTTLB ASK FOR ASPINARISS SPFCIAR CXCRF BRACK.
Beware of Spurious Imitations. Insist on “ASPINALL’S.**
BAKER’S
-W
each-
Post Free throughout Australasia.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, fin- (<* above), 55.; fin., t
Made of the finest Sheffield steel, full hollow-ground. Before posting, each Razor is tested and set ready for use by my cutlers.
JHO. Bafcer, Cutler, 3 Hunter-at., Sydney. Eleven Highest Awards for Cutlery, etc., R,A,S,, 1892-96.
A Leader of Labor .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
108 Lavender Hill, Battersea, London, is a section
of a two-storeyed terrace as modest-looking as pro-
truding bow-windows will allow. In a dark
corner of the porch a neat, one-inch-by-five brass
slip bears the name “John Burns.”
Short to undersizedness, of a tough, hairy type,
with a clean-trimmed beard—not black tinged
with grey, but grey tinged with black —there is
little in this man’s appearance to tell the passer-by
he is the foremost fighting leader in the van of the
workers’ progress. The “ windows of the soul ”
have the blinds down, from behind which the man
waits in his strong impressiveness the time to
speak, and meanwhile holds his tongue. Clear, as
the sky after a thunderstorm, the eyes disclose
nothing, though they hint at hidden force. _ The
beard covers the cheek-bones, and a stray wisp or
two have escaped and acutely curved themselves
like boomerangs, thick in the centre, over the eyes.
Looks seafaring, and might be taken for the cap-
tain of a coaster, A low, open collar conceals a
scarf with Leighton-tied endSj and discloses a V
of hairy chest. Dark jacket suit, quiet gold chain,
and rough, heavy shoes complete an unassuming
appearance. llis. manner is genial, but not
effusive, and calculated to put either a Park Laner
or a Seven Dialer at' home and at ease.
He says: “ The World is getting better because
the condition of the poor is improving. What is
the first thing that strikes a visitor in the London
streets ? ” The first thing that struck me was one
of the many low-hung awnings, and the next the
absence of the poverty-parched wretches I had
expected to see. P’r’aps they were kept in the
back streets where the awnings should be ! “No;
the lot of the people has improved a great deal
within the last ten years.” It might improve 200
per cent, and yet be a very little “lot” m Eng-
land. _ , ,
“ The Chartered Company must go and .Rhodes
with it. He is like Parnell and a few others who
want to be not only leaders but bosses, and
Britishers of to-day won’t stand that. The day
of bosses is past.”
Consider the English form of government the
finest and comparatively freest on earth. Nothing
but a very improved form of republic. (By-the-
way, his voice rings through that cramped ornate
biscuit-box —the House of Commons like the
clear, steady sound of a tolling bell. It demands
and obtains respectful silence.)
The conduct of Labor matters in Australia has
not impressed him favorably. “American Labor
leaders are bad enough, but Antipodean worse,
Many Labor leaders come from a type of self-
styled journalists—not industrious enough to be
penny-a-liners and not clever enough to be any-
thing better. Here, they delight to worm them-
selves into Labor Circles, and get a following by
recounting petty details of my life, or pointing out
my mistakes, and how they would remedy them.
He asked about Trenwith, Maloney, Hancock,
Murphy, and Fitzgerald, and received varying
values of the capabilities and possibilities of each
individual. , , . ,
“ The ‘ tip ’ system in England is decreasing as
rapidly as it is increasing in America. It has
always sapped the self-respect and manliness of
the workers, and my opposition to the penny-
pride-purchase lost me 1800 votes at the last
general, and will lose me the ‘police’ and post-
men’ at the next, for I’m going to crush the Xmas-
box business.” -
“Lord? Well, I find the average ‘lord. a
gentlemanly, well-informed, simple-speaking,
simple-living man. We have over a score on the
London City Council—as fine fellows as anyone
would wish to meet.” Good “ lord ” !
MINYARAH.
At the race-club ball at Hannan’s the men
outnumbered the women by 12 to 1, and the “ real
lydies” made it a strict rule not to dance with
any man who had previously on the same evening
skipped round with a barmaid.
' One Body, a N.S.W. attorney, has been
disciplined for failing to account (ahem !) to clients.
Pass the lyre
Gin a body meet a Body
In his little lair —
Gin a Body rob a body,
Need a body swear V
Ilka body has a lawyer, ,
Nane hae I, I wist;
But if I had, and he robbed me,
I’d hae him off the list.
A lady professor of walking advertises in
Melb.
'Melb.' : “The women have been crowding
to-day round a straw hat, in a Bourke-street
drapery window. It could be placed on the head,
and yet bore first-class imitation parsnips, toma-
toes, onions, walnuts, a little cabbage, pome-
granate, carrots, asparagus, ears of corn, a bit of
cauliflower, &c., surmounted by rosebuds.” It
would have looked well on Eve in Eden where she
wore naught else.
Canon Potter, of Melb., is quite certain
lying is not necessary in business, and is sure there
are “many men in business who would rather
starve<than lie.” In these days of adulteration a
business-man must lie, and the man who wants to
tell the truth as a steady thing is as much out of
place behind the counter as he would appear to be
in the pulpit where the parsons preach the Trewth
that shames the very devil.
The Boodlewraith’s Chinese statistics are
amusing. According to them only one. Chow
crossed into Queensland in 1890; only three in 1893;
and in 1896 only 38. The Boodlewraith admits
that out of 145 who crossed ,in six years, only
three paid the fine of =£so apiece. The Banana-
land statistics are compiled on the simple, happy
assumption that every Chow immigrating into
Queensland immediately makes for the nearest
police-station, hands himself over to the authori-
ties, and begs to be mulcted in the sum of <£so, or
packed back straightway over the border.
Dear Bulletin,— The other day I an-
swered a lawyer’s advt. “Wanted a clerk,” and
counted 115 applicants of all sorts. Now, I hear
that this “gent one” has the reputation of only
“engaging” a clerk on “ appro, for a month, with-
out salary. Salary (often unstated) to commence
if appro’d ! ” It is further alleged, too, that, for a
year past, the gentleman has been unable to
“appro.” any applicant he has tried; has been
unable, therefore, to pay a clerk a salary ; and has
been obliged to put up with the gratis services of
clerks, each from three to four weeks at a time.—
Once Bit.
Another Australian abroad :
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos the British tub, continents
ablutionary arrangements are even worse than those in
England. The best hotels in Italy and Switzerland, always
monopolised by English tourists during summer, rarely
have more than one bath-room—generally on the first
bed-room floor. Those of the second and third-class
sport mostly none at all. This refers, of course, only to
town hotels. In the country a bath-room is an unknown
quantity. The Britisher who dotes onhistub at home seems
to “ stow ’’ this laudable habit when abroad. A supply of
sand-paper costs probably less than a bath at Is. When I
was a boy tennis, football, cricket, &c., were little, or not
at all, played on the continent. The ever-increasing in-
flux of English visitors during summer hag, however,
made these games popular in many parts. The “ tub ”is
left as of yore. English influence could prevail upon
continentals to take to British games, &• c., but at the tub
they still draw the line. Really, one has to go back to the
dear old mother country to appreciate the full worth of
the beastly colonies.
According to the Maoriland Bill for Paw-
ing the Young Female after 10 p.m., any girl
apparently under 16 found a second time in the
streets after 10 at night may be sent to a reforma-
tory. The first time she is merely liable to be in-
terrogated by the policeman on the beat with the
assistance of the “cop” on the next beat whom
he is to call in to his aid, and led to the house of
a clergyman, J.P., or householder of good repute,
and examined as to her name, parentage, address,
age, reasons for being out, &c., and then led home
by the wrist and delivered to her parents or
guardians, along with a statement of the circum-
stances. The second time, however, she may be
“ sent up ” for several years. Evidently there . is
going to be a bad time in Maoriland for the girl
apparently under 16.
Yic. Justice Williams, in suspending a
dishonest lawyer the other day, said : “ The time
is fast approaching when these gentlemen should
not be suspended, but struck off the rolls at onoe.
It is time that this misappropriation—purloining,
I might call it—by trustees generally of their
clients’ moneys should be put a stop to.” The
phenomenal unkindness of his Honor’s comment
lies in the suggestion that he might apply the term
“ purloining ”to the deed of embezzlement. This
comes of riding a bike, The Bulletin supposes.
The machine has shaken up learned brother
Williams’ liver to such a degree that he can’t keep
his mind from grasping the situation. Pretty soon
he will begin to fancy that a gentleman who de-
serves to be struok off the rolls is tantamount to a
mere person who ought to be in gaol like other
thieves.
To keep milk sweet, cool it immediately
after it comes from the cow, thus killing the bac-
teria of fermentation before they get to work.
Good-conduct prisoners are daily employed
driving the Pentridge (Melb.) gaol-carts in and
out of Melbourne, along the Sydney-road. The
men wear the hideous regulation dress, _ are duly
numbered and lettered on the backs of their jackets,
and seemingly enjoy the outing, evidently per-
fectly callous to the observation of tram passengers
and pedestrians. ‘ Retrenchment! ’
G. B. Shaw, speaking of Jerumky Jerum’s
“ Biarritz,” says : “ Witty things can no doubt
be said about prostitution, but prostitution in
itself is not a witty thing.” Apropos, some Vic-
torian vignerons were having a social on a_ recent
evening, and old Pierre had promised to
sing. He was called on but protested that he had
a sore throat. They would take no denial. At
last: “Well, I will get a substitute to sing for
me.” “What!” “Miss , she has kindly
consented to act the substitute for me.” Uproar.
Poor old Pierre didn’t. say substitute, but he
meant to.
The first volume of a cheap series of
Marcus Clarke’s sketchy works, published by his
widow and dedicated to the Australian public,
contains his much-quoted guess at the Future
Australian Race —a clever, inconsistent, and not
very complimentary prophesy. Some of the
author’s cause-and-effect deductions look sound
to-day, others are already proved false. “ The
present custom of drinking alcohol to excess will
continue,” he said. “All carnivora are rash,
gloomy, given to violence. Vegetarians live at a
lower level of health, but are calmer and happier.
Red radicals are for the most part meat-eaters.
. . . Fish-eaters are invariably moderate Whigs.
The Australians will be content with-nothing short
of a turbulent democracy.” But since Clarke’s
death a sober—well-nigh teetotal —race of natives
is growing up, and our democracy is the most
easy-going, police-fearing democracy on earth.
Melbourne, for instance, seems incapable of get-
ting excited under circumstances that would breed
riots in any big European city.
Dear Bulletin, — Be aboriginal supersti-
tions, prayers for rain, ethnological coincidences,
and various other things. Among the generation
of Victorian blackfellows which, in its younger
days, had witnessed the disappointing resurrection
of its forefathers, the most striking and most care-
fully-observed rite was the burning of feathers,
hair, or fur in time of drought. The lubras
attended to this, among other matters ; but I have
often heard my father say that when the feathers,
&c., failed to bring ram, the “coolies” (pre-
diggings term) used to set fire to their own hair
and beards. Whether this indisputably sincere
appeal had any effect on the clerk, no person who
has not mastered the relation of mind to matter
is fully qualified to judge. But those who claim
that our own “days of humiliation” or “weeks
of prayer ” are more efficacious, must have
queer ideas of the Being they think they
worship. Such, however, was the most con-
spicuous observance of the Port Phillip blacks.
It is not noticed by any writer I have happened to
meet with. Even Brough Smyth, in his elaborate
work on the aborigines of Victoria, seems to have
missed the information altogether. But, writing
from a childish, though perfectly distinct recollec-
tion, I have times out of number seen each old
lubra of a party, immediately on arriving at our
hut, carefully deposit on the fire her handful ol
feathers, wool, etc., collected on the way. I ins,
of course, would be in dry weather; in wet
weather, they were just as solicitous to see that no
rain-bringing material was burned. And, as the
poor creatures were seldom satisfied with the
weather-legislation, their harmless oblation was
too ordinary to excite comment. Is this peculiar
custom entirely Overlooked or forgotten by all
except one, who, like Sir John (not Madden), is
old only in judgment and understanding ? Meston
ought to know something about it. — -Tom Collins.
Churchyards “yawn” because of the
epitaphs.
“ Depend upon it, those young ladies who
are so fond of handling the Circulating Library
leaves, will long for the fruit at last.” — Rivals.
The oldest slab in St. David’s cemetery,
Hobart, bears this inscription in large italic
letters :
George Kearly was
Born July the 9,1802,
and died the 15th.
Joseph Kealy was
born May 30,1805,
and died the 5 of Aug.
Come Lord make ready our bride
Our Saviour no longer delay
The blunders, amusing and the reverse,
caused through the general non-acquaintance of
the N.S.W. Civil servants with the members of
the new Public Service Board, suggest reminis-
cences of the advent to power of Templeton,
Irving and Couchman, as Public Service commis-
sioners in Victoria. When the triumvirate were
hard at work investigating and re-grading, say, in
the North East, they would be largely advertised
in the Melbourne press as being out West, and
when they were actually engaged out West, it
would be currently reported that one or two of
them were occupied with suburban classifications,
and the rest of the board was away on the Murray
border. The object of this, of course, was to put
peccant public officers off their guard, and as re-
sult surprises and discomfitures were not at all
infrequent until the dodge was seen through, and
various public officers within a certain district
devised a means of defence against the common
enemy. The three commissioners in a body
struck an important Western sea-board town one
day, and on their arrival, straightway entered the
Post and Telegraph Office. Couchman, an ex-
perienced electrician, led the way, and was just
in time to distinguish the transmission on the
sounder of a message which was to put every other
Western town on the circuit on the alert.” Just
got word from T that they’re on their way
here. Look out.” This was the message as sent,
and instantly came back from the first big office
on the circuit: “ When do the blank blanks arrive ?
Is Tom Couchman one of them?” Couchman
instantly went to the instrument and keyed tbe
reply: ‘‘ The blank blanks are here now,” and
gave his name as transmitted, “ Tom Couchman.”


Judging from recent happenings in the
Australian Supreme Courts, it really seems possible
that in time fraudulent lawyers may attain to the
dignity of getting a fair trial like other suspected
criminals.
History eternally repeats itself. Parnell,
who led in the British Commons the Irish Home
Rule cause—pre-eminently identified with Irish
Romanism—almost into sight of victory, was a
Protestant. Laurier, the present Canadian Prime
Minister, who has just crushed the Canadian
French-Romanist education movement, is a
Canadian French-Romanist himself ! Two telling
illustrations of the lost grip of sacerdotalism on the
politics of adult Democracy.
Gentlemen : —lf you are unable to get
exactly what you require in your own district,
write us and get our prices of goods free to your
door. Hordern Brothers, Tailors, Mercers,
Government Contractors, Carpet Warehousemen,
etc., etc. Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-strcct
(only), Sydney.»
The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
1
X'
1
UE
ras
PEARS
6 F
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
One Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It had been a bleai July day at our selec-
tion, and as night came on a bitter westerly
howled through the trees at Shingle Hut. Gold !
wasn’t it cold ! The pigs in the sty, hungry and
half-fed (we wanted for ourselves the few pump-
kins that had survived the drought) fought
savagely with each other for shelter, and squealed
all the time like —well, like pigs. The cows and
calves left the place to seek shelter away in the
mountains ; while the draught horses, their hair
standing up like barbed-wire, leaned sadly over
the fence and gazed at the green lucerne. Joe
went about shivering in an old coat of Dad’s with
only one sleeve to it —a calf had fancied the other
one day that Dad hung it on a post as a mark to
go by while ploughing.
“ My! it’ll be a stinger to-night,” Dad remarked
to Mrs. Brown, who sat, cold-looking, on the sofa,
as he staggered inside with an immense log for the
fire. A log ! Nearer a whole tree ! But wood
was nothing in Dad’s eyes.
Mrs. Brown had been at our place five or six
days. Old Brown called occasionally to see her,
so we knew they couldn’t have quarrelled. Some-
times she did a little housework, but more often
she didn’t. We talked it over together, but
couldn’t make it out. Joe asked mother, but she
had no idea—so she said. We were full up, as
Dave put it, of Mrs. Brown, and wished her out
of the place. She had taken to ordering us about,
as though she had something to do with us.
* * * *
After supper we sat round the fire—as
near to it as we could without burning ourselves —
Mrs Brown and all, and listened to the wind
whistling outside. Ah, it was pleasant beside the
fire listening to it! When Dad had warmed him-
self back and front he turned to us and said :
“ Now, boys, we must go directly and light some
fires and keep those wallabies back.”
That was a shock to us, and we looked at him
to see if he were really in earnest. He was, and
as serious as a judge.
“ To-night ? ” Dave answered, surprisedly—-
“ why to-night any more than last night or the
night before ? Thought you had decided to let
them rip ? ”
“Yes, but we might as well keep them off a bit
longer.”
“But there’s no wheat there for them to get now.
So what’s the good of watching them ? There’s no
sense in that.'”
Dad was immovable.
“ Any way ” —Joe chimed in—“ I'm not going—
not a night like this—not when I ain’t got any
boots.”
That vexed Dad. “ Hold your tongue, sir,”
he said—“you’ll do as you’re told.”
But Dave hadn’t finished. “ I’ve been follow-
ing that harrow since sunrise this morning,” he
said, “ and now you want me to go chasing walla-
bies about in the dark, a night such as this, and
for nothing else but to keep them from eating the
ground. It’s always the way here—the more one
doss the more he’s wanted to do,” and he com-
menced to cry.
Mrs. Brown had something to say. She agreed
with Dad and thought we ought to go, as the
wheat might spring up again.
“ Pshah ! ” Dave blurted out between his sobs,
while we thought of telling her to shut her mouth.
* * * *
Slowly and reluctantly we left that roaring
fireside to accompany Dad that bitter night. It
was a night !—dark as pitch, silent, forlorn and
forbidding, and colder than the busiest morgue.
And just to keep wallabies from eating nothing!
They had eaten all the wheat—every blade of it—
and the grass as well. What they would start on
next—ourselves or the cart-harness—wasn’t quite
clear. The vermin, truly, were innumerable and
had well-nigh taken possession of the selection.
We stumbled along in the dark one behind the
other, with our hands stuffed into our trousers.
Dad was in the lead, and poor Joe, bare shinned
and bootless, in the rear. Now and again
he tramped on a Bathurst-burr, and, in sitting
down to extract the prickle, would receive a
cluster of them elsewhere. When he escaped the
burr it was only to knock his shin against a log or
leave a toe-nail or two clinging to a stone. Joe
howled, but the wind howled louder and blew and
blew.
Dave, in pausing to wait on Joe, would mutter :
“ To hell with everything ! Whatever he wants
bringing us out a night like this, I’m damned if I
know ! ”
Dad couldn’t see very well in the dark, and on
this night couldn’t see at all, so he walked up
against one of the old draught horses that had
fallen asleep gazing at the lucerne. And what a
fright they both got! The old horse took it
worse than Dad—who only tumbled down—for he
plunged as though the devil had grabbed him, and
fell over the fence twisting every leg he had in the
wires. How the brute struggled ! We stood and
listened to him. After kicking panels of the
fence down and smashing every wire in it, he got
loose and made off, taking most of it with him.
“That’s one wallaby on the wheat, anyway,”
Dave remarked, and we giggled. We understood
Dave ; but Dad didn’t open his mouth.
We lost no time lighting the fires. Then we
walked through the “wheat” and wallabies!
May Satan reprove me if I exaggerate their num-
ber by one solitary pair of ears —from the row and
scatter they made there was a million.
* * * *
Dad told Joe, at last, he could go to sleep if
he liked, at the fire. Joe went to sleep — how, I don’t
know. Then Dad sat beside him, and for long in-
tervals would stare silently into the darkness.
Sometimes a string of the vermin would hop past
close to the fire, and another time a curlew would
come near and screech its ghostly wail, but he
never noticed them. Yet he seemed to be listen-
ing.
We mooched around from fire to fire, hour after
hour, and when we wearied of heaving fire-
sticks at the enemy we sat on our heels and cursed
the wind, and the winter, and the night-birds
alternately. , It was a lonely, wretched occu-
pation.
Now and again Dad would leave his fire to ask
us if we could hear a noise. We couldn’t, except
that of wallabies and rnopokes. Then he would go
back and listen again. He was restless, and,
somehow, his heart wasn’t in the wallabies at all.
Dave couldn’t make him out.
The night wore on. By-and-by there was a
sharp rattle of wires, then a rustling noise, and
Sal appeared in the glare of the fire. “ Dad ! ” she
said. That was all. Without a word, Dad bounced
up and went back to the house along with her.
“Something’s up!” Dave said, and, half-anxious,
half-afraid, we gazed into the fire and thought and
thought. Then we stared, nervously, into the
night, and listened for Dad’s return, but heard
only the wind and the mopoke.
At dawn he appeared again, with a broad smile
on his face, and told us that mother had got an-
other baby—-a fine little chap. Then we knew why
Mrs. Brown had been staying at our place.
Q.
STBELE RUDD.
Where the Flinders "( Flows.”
Respectfully Dedicated to “ P. Luftig.”
I have lately left the region
Where the Flinders “ flows ” ;
True —I found the flies were legion
Where the Flinders “ flows ” ;
But the thing that drove me frantic
Was your perjured poet’s antic
When he wrote that “ lie gigantic ”
That the Flinders “ flows.”
There are miles of arid distance
Where the Flinders “flows” ;
There are crows that feed on Christians
Where the Flinders “flows” ;
But no waters splash or splutter
In the desolation utter
Of that God-forsaken gutter
Where the Flinders “flows.”
Now, I’ve dogged that valley dreary
All in vain, God knows;
And I’ve sought until I’m weary
For the stream that “flows,”
In return for which infliction
May there light a malediction
On the bard who framed the fiction
That the Flinders “ flows.”
N.Q.
FLINDERS CROW.
Instead of Nansen for the Antarctic next
year and Borchgrevink the year after, why not
Nansen-cMm-Borehgrevink in one year ? The
eight millions of square miles scientists say lie
around the South magnetic Pole make an empire
big enough to accommodate a pair of Caesars.
In Launceston (Tas.) there is a District
Nursing Association, formed some years ago on an
unsectarian basis to provide competent nurses for
the poor at their own homes. A nurse has been
talking religion to her patients, and the thousand-
headed dragon of sectarianism has been roused
and sooled on to the angel in black and white with
all the vigor of olden time. The Protestant
churches are fighting each other over the affair,
some upholding and others opposing the action of
the Association in discharging the nurse. Result:
a new (presumably Protestant) association to be
formed forthwith.
Madden and Austin, lawyer and squatter,
and both freedom-of-contract men, are fathering a
bill in Vic. Assembly for the purpose of protecting
purchasers from the devices of sellers of artificial
manures. Madden was recently successful in
passing a similar bill dealing with the adulteration
of seeds. Both bills involve a serious interference
with the sacred principle of freedom of contract,
and the equally sacred shopkeepers’ palladium,
“ caveat emptor.” If the Legislature is in a mood
to pass at the instance of high-toned conserva-
tives adulteration-bills with respect to matters
mainly affecting boss-cockies and squatters, surely
the psychological moment has arrived for a general
Adulteration Act, abolishing the doctrine of cavca
emptor and protecting the helpless poor against
the poison and disease generated by the wholesale
adulteration tolerated by the wretched ethics of
our commercial life.
The Chow Prospectors .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the side of the hill facing the old water-logged
yellow flat, a fifteen-year-old field, now deserted
and solitary, I came unexpectedly upon a fe\V
Chinamen engaged in poking little holes in the
soft vegetable soil with long augers. Have you
seen workmen prospecting the streets for a gas-
leakage ? They drive an iron rod into the ground,
withdraw it, and an expert smells the hole. The
game is continued until the escape is duly located.
My Chinamen were acting similarly, excepting
that after each hole they critically examined the
end of the auger, and now and again a Mongolian
connoisseur smelt that with a studious and ab-
stracted air suggestive of an old wine-bibber trying
to ! * place ” a particular sample of port.
I was interested, and seated myself on a stump
to watch progress, and for some time the Chows
continued to probe the hill within a space of about
half-an-acre. They were extremely diligent and
deeply absorbed, boring and fingering and smell-
ing, and gave me no attention. But presently my
curiosity became unbearable. .
“ What you look him for, John ? ” I enquired of
a portly heathen who seemed to be the leader.
“Huh? No savee !” he replied, and continued
his work.
It struck me as an altogether novel kind of pro-
specting, and I ventured on the off-chance :
“No gold here, John. No wash. All down on
the flat, John.”
He did not favor me with even a glance, and the
work continued for half an hour, when I ventured
another question, addressing a small withered
subordinate Chow.
“ What you dig for, Paddy? You hide some-
thing here sometime ? ”
Visions of buried treasures had come to me
during the last ten minutes.
“No feeah,” replied the heathen. “Belly him
Poo Wong here longa tima go. You know where,
huh?”
They were boring for the remains of a long-dead
countryman.
I left, but heard later that they bottomed on
bones a little further up the hill.
SILAS SNELI.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
S
r°?-?i- 10US a S d I NerVOU ! such as Wind ana Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
Ween of ° f Appetl^ 0 ' Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Disturbed
Bleep, frightful Dreams, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no’fiction. Xery sufferer is
OIJINE ° ne X eS ° >^8 ’ an< * *hey will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. Thev
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
Ihey act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pi'ls have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is l&d, and 2s 9d each.
STOP THAT COUGH l
Don’t Delay—TAKE
BONNINITON’S
IRISH MOSS,
[copy.]
“Theatre Royal, Sydney, April 20. 1896.
“ My Dear Mr. BONNINGTON. !
“ Allow me, on behalf of Mrs. Holt, to thank you very sincerely for your
kind thought in sending her, on Saturday, a bottle of your famed Irish Moss. I may say that
it is an old and valued friend of ours, and I am sure our esteem of its virtues will be
strengthened by the acquaintance with it which we now renew, through your good agenoy.
“ With all sincere wishes for your success and well-being,
“I remain, yours cordially, BLAND HOLT.”
IttElclsL Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARIET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OE
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND —
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS & CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T BE BEAT, THREE
EIGHTS, BULLY, A 1 CURLS, LEGER TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
CIGARS, viz.:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA PAROLA, EL MUNDO
(Heavy Weights), HIGH LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons Furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-payment
43T Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade sup-
plied cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAEKET, SYDNEY.
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
' IN FOUR WEEKS
•taiMNiNo. *«o week. Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,"
spt- iflcs, etc., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing Manly "Vigor in
young and old men. The Homoepathic Treatment cures in four weeks. All letters sent
sealed. Address, Dr. IR.YIISG CO., c/r Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
1
nr THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOyLE’S PRINTS ARE FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bsaring our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
We will Pay the Cost of Making up a New Dress.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress.
u
EASY RUNNING
NEW HOME
SEWING MACHINES.
77
STYLE NO. 14.
$» 99. GASH, £lO 10s. TIKE PAYMENT.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood'
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL & IDEAL
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Having boon appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 30.; by post, 4d,
Jeurnalß, 40.; by post, 00.
Needles,
Fittings,
AW»
Repairs.
We keep a etoek of Needle?
Belts, Oil and Fittings to su» >
any Sewing Maeblne ever sold
in Australia, and bavin# a stab
of Competent Meehaaies ©an
guarantee to thoroughly Repnif
Sewing Maeliinee of any make,
“New Home” Hand Machine,
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarktt), SYDNEY,
280 C ;s rka Street, Mtlbournt. 87 Quftin Strftfttt BHllMtnti
MR. UPPERTEN: “I’m going to bring a friend of mine home to dinner to-morrow.
He says he was once engaged to you.”
MRS. UPPERTEN: "How delightful! I wonder who he can be?”


ows
EMBROCATION
fpN^
)7 ' I
EVERYWHERE'!
Not “IVSade in Germany”!
*
*
VU NSO
THE FINEST
ENGLISH MAKE.
EAU DE COLOGNE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting and
very much More Refreshing
*■ than the German Kinds.
use ATKINSON’S only
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only Genuine with Shield-shape Blue and Yellow
Label and usual “ White Bose ” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. AT KJNSOX, 24, Old Bond St., London.
PALMER TIRES!
DETACHABLE AND SINGLE TUBE (RACING).
FASTEST TIRES ON RECORD.
Outside Tyre Covers
Internal Tubes
Non-slipping Bands
Valves
Valve Tubing
Solution
Pedal Rubbers
Cork & .Rubber Handles
Repairing Rubber Sheet
LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK. CALL or WRITE FOR PRICE-LIST.
The India ILuhher, Gatta Fercha
& Telegraph Works Go. Ltd.
Sydrtey Branch. : 283 GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter-street),
Scale
tt
of Advertising 1
-IN-
THE BULLETIN
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance,
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 „ „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
iw A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S FILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a ooun trv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands oi sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-ST., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
BUY FK.OM US and save 50 per cent., and remem-
ber tha> ,* 1 saved is equivalent to £5 earn'd. We
are selling SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE,
BRONZES, GENUINE OIL and WATER COLOR PAINT-
INGS, and all the usual fixings for the comfort- or adorn-
ment of the Cottage or the Mansion, at fully 50 per
cent, on the average prices charged elsewhere. Come
and inspect.
,JNO. C- LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp, Alargaret-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W.
FOOD & ICE GO.. LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles, Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 Sing- Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
It. PATESOI*, Manager.
Agentß
Gardner Governor.
Parke & Lacy Corppaoy, Limited,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mining Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
Importers of Mine & Mill Supplies.
Penberthy Injector.
Korting Injector.
k i
:
m
i
¥
Double Sight Feed Lubricator.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class of Worts. A.g:ents Everywhere.
Bstiio s u _*■»s_...
_ Bakm 9 Powder,
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
Mallo
CIGARS.
The popular favorites. Equal in flavor and aroma to cigars of twice their
cost. Always reliable and in good condition. Best value ever known.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets FD.
French PD Corsets.
*
»<
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HOHHEUR,
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Borsdorff & Co.,
Sole Agents foe Australia,
20 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
AND AT
laitie JSz H o art;
Trade Mark.
EC?
4.
a*
3
tn
rr
2:
C>
3S
*
