

MeE WAN'S AT, p;
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
dfgdf
A
%.2 &
%
<Rac{aJo
jVVo -r
-4
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agem, 28 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
DRINK
CUP blend tea
UNRIVALLED MV OVALITY.
• Ait s.rcnrkTrptßS
ft* At S \A. 9c OUEENSLAND
rslO
I “
isss,
iIM:
aui
■:•&::■Mil mwi
HIUUI
~ Elin
- r r.i,nUiV*^
'm
ROBERTS 9
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Is and 2s per bottle.
Whyte and MacJcay’s Special
Whisky, 3/9
Roberts’ Special Whisky for
Influenza.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and
Colds.
Very Superior old Port Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
o,o^o^
Before visiting the City write to the Manager for
Qird of Tariff. Qprrejpondence promptly attended to.
■%
R?M6RO%IOSi/^l ; '-
*iiHi
ibmm
w°#f
£v/EP V .WH£ RE \
gd
tTouAm
WALKER’S FURNITURE.
WM. WALKER, SONS, & BARTHOLOMEW, LTD.
357 George Street,
SYDNEY.
119 Bunhill Row,
LONDON.
Use “Pioneer 99 Hole Leather.
fg
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
ABE
Tanned & Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
the best in the world.
J, C. LUDDWICI a SON, Ltd,
TANNERS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery: Lane Cove River.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
BA
Complete ‘Sanitation.
- LIFTS.
•. r -J' •, •_ ■.. . . .
Electric Eight.
(U iidt KcyriT.P.atrcii^o.)
virv.'.is over -3GQ Apart
• tdhed v.ith ali Mouer; Lr
T'V;.. ’ ur>inuics >’ Ifj n - ;he
K’enstfl&toft Gardens, .i-np .•. :.ii
and ■
df
■Hi M O I
Gloucester
• ERATE TARIFF. -■ - v
Road, London, ,S,W.
JAMES BAILEY, M P., Managing
Director,
SENIORS
TONIC
(REGISTERED).
THE
Great Health Restorer.
RECOMMENDED BY THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION.
SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Sold Everywhere.
If you want a Good Whisky, drink WILLIAMS’. Tucker & Co., Agents, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol. 17.—N0. 852. J
[Saturday, June 13, 1896.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LITERARY NOTES.
Melb. Akgus quotes Lecky as tracing t
word “ socialism ” to a journalist, Reybauc
‘•who gave the party its baptism in t
Revue des Deux Mohdrs.” If Lecky sa
this, Lecky blunders badly. The Revue and
Deux Monties was founded in ’66. There
extant an essay, “ Les Socialistes Modernes
by Jules Breynat, published Paris, ’49.
*sl Colins published three vols. of a wor
called “ Socialisme Rationelle.’’ More, t
Owenites called themselves Socialists in En
land in the twenties ; and C. D. Mauri
wrote a treatise on Christian Socialism
1850. Probably the name “ socialism ”is a
least as old as the centuiy.
• » • •
Two biographies of Parkes are in course o
feverish preparation—one authoritative, th
other quasi-authoritative. And there are
couple of compilations in hand, independen
in origin and purpose. It looks as if, fro
a biographical point of view, Parkes wou
meet Dailey’s fate. The old man, who alwa
anticipated that his life would be written
had a habit of impressing professional scribes
with the idea that he intensely desired h
ghost to return to earth in the word-raimen
of their looms. Hence local heirs to h
literary treasure may possibly be suppl
mented by Gilbert Parker, Christie Murray
and a score of others at the opposite end o
the earth—all of whom could probably alleg
that they were severally made the exclusiv
depositaries of Parkes’s will and testament.
• • • »
A. : “Alice Meynell (referred to last week]
is a sister of Mrs. Eliz. Butler Thompson, th
painter. She’s married to Phil. Mennell’
brother, a London tea-merchant.”
• • » 9
From a novel by an Australian writer, now
in the press :
I am tired of hearing God interpreted by me
who cannot understand His meanest work.
God is a sublime epic paraphrased into th
baldest prose by the pietists.
I would rather suffer from the miscalculation o
an irrational enthusiasm, which achieves litt
though daring much, than gain the negativ
triumph of “no loss” through the miserab
accuracy of the logical prudence which saves a
because it risks uothing.
The manifestation of wisdom is the adjustmen
of a soul or a life to the conditions of its existence
Therefore, we are not called upon by the A 1
Wisdom to lead the heavenly life here.
* • • •
W. writes :
You are right about the absence of literar
creation by 'Varsity m-n, but does the faul
really lie with the L niversity ? Of course vo
don t expect it to create genius ; but you speak O;
stimulation. W hat stimulation can genius hav
except itself ? What stimulation oould Lawson
(e.g.) have got from any imaginable system o:
University education ? Barring his sins agains
academic correctness, which are frequent enough
I don t know what imperfections any University
would have rid him of. It is only earnestness anc
emotion, or what the academics call inspiration,
that can turn the echo-verse into original sound
and how conld a University training help a man
m either of them ? If the Australian O'Hara,
only write echoes, it is O'Hara’s fault, not th
University’s ; the University couldn’t teach him
to write anything else. If there had been more
in him at the start, there would be more at the
finish. With all its failings, a University course
couldn't crush spantaneity out of a man.
bat makes University men seem such an idea-
less Crowd is the fact that they contain just a&
many woodenheads as the whole of mankind, ba
while men in general aren’t trained to study literary
modeu, \ arsity men are; and the consequent
is that, while only one in a hundred ordinary men
has been taught to reveal his stupidity in lan
guage, with the “educated” class the proportion is
more like one in three or four A University is oi
little to literature, except in that it serves to
keep mediocrity alive, and thereby makes excel-
lence blaze more brightly; but to accuse it of
actual and positive failure, because its graduates
aren’t np to the high water-mark in poetry, is like
growling at the oook because her whinstane soup
hasp t got enough body in it. Give her bones
with some real meat on them, and she’ll dish you
up something better,
• • •
Did “W. never read the parable of the
Sower, whose seed was choked by thorns, or
died among the stones, or fell on fruitful soil
and yielded a hundredfold? Did “ W.”
never see a bicycle-race, with the hump-
backed pedall ers straining after their pace-
makers ? Did “* W. never get lost in the
bush, and suddenly, hungry, thirsty, and
footsore, when heart and flesh were failing,
catch the gleam of a light in the distance ?
A L niversity should be genius’s fertile soil,
surrounding it with all the encouraging influ-
ences of learning and culture. A University-
should be genius’s pace-maker, pointing out
the line of effort, mettling it, stimulating it
by historic examples, drawing it with con-
tagious enthusiasm and hurrying it on to a
definite goal. Genius is often faint and weary:
a University should be the light in its win-
dow. bright with the promise of the ideal,
infusing hope, and confidence, and courage to
struggle anew.
•
What could a University have done for
Lawson Just this. Humanity, slowly
climbing the mountains of Error to the heights
of Truth and Knowledge, has, like Olive
Schreiner's hunter, at infinite cost of blood
and tears, hewn out a stair. A Lniversitv
could have shown Lawson the stair. In the
desert of books a man may wander long
before he finds the path. A Lniversitv
could have shown Lawson the path. In the
sea of facts you may fish long before you find
a pearl. A University could have’ shown
Lawson where the pearls lie. But it is need-
less to multiply metaphors. From readers’
own knowledge must come their conclusions.
The Australian L niversity may be, as “ W.”
suggests, a cook asked to make soup without
stock; or it may be a cook who throws a
scuttleful of wet coals on a budding flame,
6hd extinguishes that flame for ever. Judge !
* » • *
Scribxers Magazine (Gordon and Gotch)
is as a rule rather too American and rather
too refined for the Australian taste. It needs
to be a little more catholic, and a little less
bloodless. But the May issue contains some
really interesting reminiscences of Stevenson
by his step-daughter, Mrs. Strong. Of
Stevenson s visit to Sydney in '93 it is
narrated :
Both Louis and Aolele [Mrs. Stevenson] like to
read trash, that is, if it is bad enough to be funny.
My mother was tired and sent us out to buy some
novels for her. As we went along the street we
saw Louis’s picture in many of the shop-windows,
and people turned and looked after us in a way,
Louis said, that made him feel very self-conscious.
M e went into a big shop and had picked out an
armful of books. A young clerk came up to Louis
with great respect and recognition in his eye.
‘ What have you been getting, Mr. Stevenson ? 1
he asked. ‘We have all the best authors—Mere-
dith, Barrie, Anstey ’ —and then his countenance
changed ; he cast a most reproachful, disappointed
look at Louis as he read the titles of the chosen
works—" The Sin of a Countess,” “ Miriam, the
Avenger,” “The Lady Detective.’’ He retired
and took no further interest in us. We felt it
keenly.
• • * •
Again :
I asked Louis how you could tell good literature
when you saw it.
“It is capable of explanation, I think,” he
said; “ when you see words used to the best pur-
pose—no waste, going tight around a subject.
Also they must be true. My stories are not the
truth, but I try to make my characters act as
they would act in life. 2so detail is too small to
study for truth. Lloyd and I spent five days
weighing money and making calculations for the
treasure found in “The Wrecker.”
I asked him why Charles Reade was not a stylist,
though his writing answered to the description.
1 ' kon are right,” Louis said, “he is a good
writer, and I take off my hat to him with respect.
And yet it was in continuity that be failed. In
the "Ebb Tide,” that is now under way, we
started on a high key, and oh, haven’t we re-
gretted it! If I wanted to say *he kicked his
leg and winked his eye,’ it would be perfectly flat
if I wrote it so. I must pile the colors on to bring
it up to the key. \etl am wrong to liken litera-
ture to painting. It is more like music—which is
time; painting is space. In music you wind in
and out, but always keep in the key : that is, you
carry the hearer to the end without letting him
drop by the way. It winds around and keeps on.
tso must words wind around. Organised and
packed in a mass as it were, tight with words.
Xot too short—phrases rather —no word to spare.
“ There are two kinds of style, the plastic, such
as I have just described; the other, the simple
placing of words together for harmony. The
words should come off the tongue like honev. I
began so as a young man; I had a pretty talent
that way, I must confess.”
I asked him if it were good for the young writer
to wade in emotions.
Good God, no!” he said : “first make his
words go sweet, and if he can t spend an after-
noon turning a single phrase he’d better give up
the profession of literature.”
• * » *
Pedagogue : “ The English text set for
this year s matriculation exam, at Melb.
T niversity did not need the title-page to
show it was edited by a Melb. graduate. All
the notes are a re-hash of those which Prof.
Morris is wont to serve out at lectures : and
the provincial schoolmaster, who has been
accustomed to astound his pupils with reams
of literary lore (which, by the time it reached
him. must have been about fifth-hand) is now
deprived of his whole stock-in-trade, and is
reduced to gibing fiercely at the annotator s
unnecessary length.”
* * » »
From Ai.wa Mater (the Melb. University
magazine) :
We would like to see a more general interest
taken in the social life of the University bv the
Dons. The products of a mere “ stew shop,” such
as the L niversity threatens to become, are not the
materials whereby nations are built. In this new
country, with so much pioneering work, social and
political, to be done, we must have robust men
and women, a result which a crowd of book-worms
can never yield.
* * • •
“Xo use publishing in Australia \ ” And
the seventh thousand of “ The Banjo’s ” book
of verses (least price, 55.) is almost sold out.
* * » »
J. H. Roberts, proprietor of Lond. I>'
Towx, Illustrated Bits, <fec., to a Bulletik
correspondent :
Rs George Ashton's projected “ Australian
sketches, they aren't coming out as intended.
Ive bought the pick of them from him, and shall
pobhsh in Ln Towy. No. 1 (Lord Onslow in
Golomal Politicians ”) appears in lx Towy for
May. The second (Lord Hopetoun in “ Sport in
Victoria ”) appears in lx Towx for June.
The Bond, publishing trade is now absolutely
overdone. Too many magazines in the field : the
public surfeited. There will be some heavy losses
and failures before the end of '96
• * » *
-. uL , : 4 of the ‘Australian School
Series is an unadnnrable compound of
savoury themes and original grammar. One
lesson is entitled ‘Pure Water’ and has
several delicate allusions to cess-pits (p. 39).
Another choice essay on ‘ Vermin : lavs
special stress on the species found in dirtv
people's heads, with directions for getting
rid of it ‘ (p. 204) and dwells lovingly on
bugs (p. 203). A description of a porcupine
scratching ticks out of its ear is included in
another edifying narrative (p. 34). In the
lesson on ‘ Alcohol ’ (which has a marked tee-
total tendency) you read (p. 161) «Beer in
the form of ale and porter, cider and perry !
contain alcohol, but generally in small pn>
portions, and are used as beverages by great
numbers of people.’ Almost as elegantly
worded is the paragraph in ‘ Presence of
Mind (p. 73) :— * A great king . . . had
commenced the narration of a story to his
assembled courtiers, when he suddenly
noticed among them a person who would
have been pained by continuing the tale.’
Cheerful— and classic 1 Who was to continue
the tale 1 ”
I held the man for a decent, intelligent
laborer, whom it was a privilege to know,
but I had never suspected him of poetica
sensibility. Yet he was literally drunk
with the Night and the poem (we
hadn’t tapped the whisky). He raved, he
implored, and his frantic gestures nearlv
upset the boat. Presently he grew quieter,
came down to water again, and we fishec
about for a long time till we found the sculls.
Then my friend explained. He had rear
the poem in a newspaper : it was the one
poem he knew : it enshrined his own life-
romance. To him it seemed “ the greatest
poem ever written.”
* » » •
When David Christie Murray a short time
afterwards deliberately expressed the opinion
that ” My Queen of Dreams ’ contained “ the
most essentially poetic verses ” he had found
in the Australian Anthology, the impression
left upon me by this incident was deepened.
Here were a rugged, hard-handed toiler and
a clever writer, well-versed in literature, who
reached from different points of view an
identical conclusion. Fuller acquaintance
with Mr. Holdsworth’s work showed that he
has written poems which deserve to be long
remembered by Australia.
* * • *
Mr. Holdsworth s single book of poems
was published by W. Maddock in ’BS, and is
now out of print. The dedication runs : “As
a young Australian, I dedicate this small
volume of poems to my fellow-countrymen
of Australasia, less, perhaps, for its own sake
than as an earnest of future effort.” Ai : for
the dreams of youth. The volume was warmlv
praised on its appearance, but of late years
it has dropped out of notice. Yet it'con-
tains a good deal of decent verse, and three
or four poems whose appeal could hardly be
stronger. Chief of these is “My Queen of
Dreams,” a lyric brim-full of exquisite emo-
tion. Another is “ Quis Separabit?” of
which only the final verse, first written, is
included in the book. The whole poem was
subsequently printed in Sydney Tkuth dur-
ing W. H. Traill’s editorship.
This is fine rhetoric, but hardly so good as
poetry, and one feels a touch of artifice anc
affectation. It is an oratorical poem : jusi
speak the second stanza with a round mouth
and a little sympathy ! A chief quality o:
Mr. Holdsworth’s verse, indeed, is its
sonority : one would say he composed aloud.
He is distinctly an ear-poet, and to get his
full flavor you must recite him. Recurring
to a recent comment on this page, compare
Holdsworth with Victor Daley, a poet whose
verse apj>eaLs strongly to the eye. Here is
a beautiful picture from one of Daley’s finest
poems :—
Spellbound by a sweet fantasy
At evenglow I stand
Beside a strange sardonyx sea
That rings a sunset land.
The rich lights fade ontone by one,
Like to a peony,
And drowned in wine, the round red sun
Sinks down in that strange sea.
With red clouds has he cb&pleted
His brows, like him who tied
Of old a rose-wreath round his head,
And drank to Death, and died.
Try to recite this, and in the very first verse
one is caught in a cacophony of sibilants.
Nevertheless, it is highly musical—with the
music of colour. Mr. Holdsworth’s is the
music of sound—his rhythms and vocables
commingle with a ringing chime like a
sweetly-tempered peal of bells. In “Loth
to Depart, ” another fine emotional lyric, he
rises almost to the height of the" pieces
quoted.
• « • ,
Mr. Holdsworth’s longer narrative poems
—“Station Hunting on the Warrego ” and
“At the Galley of the Popran ” are the
chief — have occasional fine phrases and
passages, but are not so good in their way.
The former is written in blank verse—now
so rarely tried in Australia —and this passage
illustrates its quality :—
(Ah, God I what fierce extremes encompass life!
Note yon plump Sybarite, whose noons are feasts
Whose midnights dainty banquets! Hedged with
gold,
He sucks abundance from Earth’s shores and
seas :
He drains the Wine of Life from jewelled cups,
And fattens weil for grave-worms !
. . Different fares
1 on child of pain that treads dry, furnaced tracts !
Above, stretch skies of fire : around him, plains.
Bare, moistureless : beneath him, earth — his
grave!
For him no rich looms ply with curious skill;
No menials crook and cringe ; no tempting cates
Nor rare wine* glisten : at Fate’s Sibyl-hand
He plucks Desire, Mistrust, Hope,' Fear and
Death !
Ah, God ! what fierce extremes encompass Life!)
» » • $
Mr. Holdsworth is most successful when
he is most sincere. Too often his work is
tainted with self-consciousness, and in verses
like “ Love’s Lamentation ” —
Day drooped his plumes of gold : hoarse fiends of
air
Sprang up with clamorous mirth,
Loosed the red whirlwinds from their thunder-
lair,
And ravaged sea and earth :—
Fear’s palsying films my dim, strained s;ght be-
dewed,
(Higher the bleak brine surged !)
For in the storm s blind march, Love’s sail I
viewed,
M ind-driven, sea-scourged !—
one seems to catch sight of a Prt'ciexix posing.
M hen a wave of deep feeling submerges his
Other-Self. Mr. Holdsworth's work is inevi-
tably fine. The pity is that this happens
rarely. There is a sense of artistic youth
throughout the book—in the comparative
deficiency of intellectual quality, in the
exaltation of sentiment, in the too-luxuriant
ornament, in the continual twang of allitera-
tion. Lines like—
As a traif driven rild by hell’s rAirlwinds, I am
wrecked on the drunkard’s dire shoals—
jar on taste and ear alike. But youth, with
all its limitations, gives passionate glow, and
Mr. Holdsworth has a sense of words so rich
that he is able at his best to concentrate
the white-heat of passion in a white-heat of
language. And if he does not always satisfy
the head, he is sometimes able to touch the
heart with a key which unlocks all its magic
chambers—a key which the Muse has never
yet entrusted to ungracious pastors of Pre-
cision.
» • • •
The following recent and notable lines
by Mr. Holdsworth (here printed for the
first time) hold a full measure of his charac-
teristic charm :—
Printed that a few years ago Single-taxer
Henry George was left £4OOO, but his
friend’s widow opposed the bequest. She
died in the poorhouse recently, which put an
end to the suit. George has now received
£4o—the balance of £3060 being swallowed
up in legal expenses. This should s
stimulus for another “Progress and PoveL\ '
lawyers progress and clients poverty.
Philip J. Holdsworth.
Writes “Helicon”: Its periodical flood
had reached an Australian country town-
ship. The river had risen and risen
till the backwater covered all the low-
lying areas, sent adrift the dwellers in
hundreds of cottages, and surged well up
into the principal street. The rain had
stopped days before, but the water showed
no sign of receding. Night came, and a
moon mellow, magnificent. I took a boat at
the door of the local “ theatre,” picked up a
man near where the ridge-pole of a church
just showed above the water, pulled through
the door of an adjacent hotel, and. kept
the boat s nose against the bar-counter
while the landlord took down a flask of
whisk}’ from a top shelf, then turned out
again down a side-street, past the
dotted house-roofs, and away over the
calm expanse. There was no wind,
no current, and the evening-star hardly
trembled in the water. The trees on
the river-bank just showed their topmost
boughs, and on the hills the township lights
twinkled. For half-an-hour we rowed on
silently, and “drew the quiet Night into our
blood. Then my companion suddenly
rose in the bows, letting his oars drift, and
proceeded to recite
MY QUEEN OF DREAMS.
In the warm flushed heart of the rose-red West,
When the great sun quivered and died to-day,
You pulsed, O star, by yon pine-clad crest—
And throbbed till the bright eve ashened grey—
Then I saw you swim
By the shadowy rim
Where the grey gum dips to the western plain,
And you rayed delight
As you winged your flight
To the mystic spheres where your kinsmen reign !
O star, did you see her ? My queen of dreams
Was it you that glimmered the night we strayed
A month ago by these scented streams ?
Half-checked by the litter the musk-buds made?
Did you sleep or wake ?
Ah, for love’s sweet sake,
(Though the world should fail, and the soft stars
wane !)
I shall dream delight
Till our souls take flight
To the mystic spheres where your kinsmen reign.
“QUIS SEPAR ABIT?"
All my life's short years had been stern and
steril—
I stood like one whom the blasts blow back.
As with Shipmen whirled through tbe straits of
Peril,
So fierce foes menaced my everv track.
Bat I steeled my soul to a strong’ endeavor,
I bared my brow as the sharp strokes fell,
And I said to my heart— “ Hope on ! Hope ever-
Have Courage—Courage, and all is welL" *
Them bright as the blood in my heart’s rich chalice,
0 Blossom, Blossom I—you came from far •
And life rang joy, till the World's loud malioe
Shrilled to the edge of our utmost star.
And I cried : ** On me let the rough storms
hurtle,
The great clouds gather and shroud ruv sun—
But you shall be Queen where the rose and mvrtle
Laugh with the year till the year is done. ’
So myOream fell dead; and tbe fluctuant passion—
The stress and strain of the past re-grew
The world laughed on in its heedless fashion.
But earth whirled worthless, because of you.
ak ? Tears which my grief discovered,
1 laid dead Love with a passionate kiss.
And over those soundless depths has hovered
The sweet, sad wraith of my banished bliss.
Heart clings to heart—let the strange years sever
The fates of two who had met to Dart:
Love’s strength survive*, and the harsh world never
bball crush the passion of heart for heart •
F ° r v l ,^ ow my thoQ £ b i* droop and dwindle,
fehall leave me Love till I fade and die,
And when hereafter our souls rc-kindle,’
Who shall be fonder —you or I!
WHY SHOULD MT SWEET LOVE
SORROW?
Why should my sweet Love sorrow? If it be
A grief to love—that grief falls most on me :
baall cold earth throb, and greet :ae strong Sun’s
heat —
And I not thrill for thee, my Star, my Sweet?
If Love s rich c.’ta'.ice offer, shall I think
R'*t austere. h:« w;ne too harsh to drink?
: at raven shall I clasp, and scorn this dove?
" hat wealth prefer to strange tyrannic Love?
> —rain thy blame upon me :On my head
Pour all, and make my heart discomforted :
Scourge me with words that wound as wounds 3
knife:
C ay me with speech, then kiss me back to life ?
Sweet in thy sett arms nesting. let me say
Dearer to Love is Nhght than garish Day :
Aye I and of all ctghts Queen. —thrice-haii that
night
Which brings me wedded to my Heart's Delight!


Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing t hat for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiel y. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and cbest without
success.
“ I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Taraworth, N.S.VV.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly’ and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. Gr. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
~ M A JVIIO o r>.
HEALTH . STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTOREL
In Four Weeks by the use of
O' RICORD’s
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating, all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 10s, or four quantities in one for S6s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
A gents for Australasia—Perry db Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygien’j, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PKOMFIXY' without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
JT. F E R R E
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
FREE NEW FREE
Enclose 2d. stamp to Professor
Lupinsky, 29 Rothschild’s Chambers,
Melbourne, for directions and recipe
1 for the
VIENNA TREATMENT
1 for Nervous Diseases and Weakened
h Vitality.
From weakness of the Nervous System, loss of Noble
Manhood through early errors or excesses? If so, write
to me and I will send you an absolute cure. Address,
Private, P. 0., Box 347, Sydney.
MEDICINE SENT FREE
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £l ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 399, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Box 920. Registered and Qualified in If.S. W.
XJ AVING devoted 24 years to the research and study
. rTo^t*X\ T SPEGIAL CHRONIC NERVOUS and SKIN
AFFECIIONS of Men and Women, is now prepared to
treat sufferers from the above troubles with an absolute
certainty of success or forfeit £2OO in all guaranteed
cases. His success has been so extraordinary, both with
male and female, that it has induced many miserable and
unqualified imitators to attempt to follow his tracks, but
the public are hereby warned that his golden remedies
can be obtained only at the above address. Consultation
Free. Correspondence invited.
Female Fills, certainties, ss, 10s, and £1
( extra strong ).
29 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
L ADIBS!
Don't Fret or Worry, but remember that Dp,
Sjaeer’s invaluable Female Remedies are
always Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920, 29 York Street, Sydney.
'rUH,
<O6
V:
%
Will Cure
WHEN
: Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Belts to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, how-
ever poor, need be with-
out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address—
Dr + Lamont Electric Belt Co M
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
UNT o Cure, NT o Pay.
x^/l
KTM 1
fi/^ P o£??Rv
belt
U\
M\HIS is tlie ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
J- cure all NEttYOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
cail and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list fpost free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address —
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers' 63 Elizabeth Street SYDNEY.
Trilby Liver Fills.
I\yr AKE life a pleasure and existence a joy. They are a
-LV-L certain and speedy cure for all Bilious and Nervous
Disorders, such as Sick Headache, Constipation, Red Nose,
Wind, Tired Feeling, Weak Stomach, Indigestion, Female
Ailments, Toothache, Melancholy, Kidney Disorders, etc.
Good for both sexes—Children and Adults. Box posted,
2s. 6d. Sold only by Monsieur HAUTMONT,
R.M.D., Victoria-street, NORTH MELBOURNE.
MW
PRESCRIPTIONS
Are to be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE ” for the Speedy Cure of Nerv-
ousness, Debility, Lost Manhood, and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book
will be sent Free, sealed for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S- WARD AND CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IT MAY BE SELDOM
That Medical Advertisements can be relied on, but we here assert the following facts, which can be
borne out from Testimonials in our possession. Thousands may see this, and treat it as some
announcements deserve, but in this they would make a great mistake,
AND FOR THIS REASON :
by taking notice of what we have already done and can do, as proved by thousands of grateful
acknowledgments of our skill which we hold, it may Save Your Life and that of your dear ones.
Has any
Person Living
...
ma
m
m
■
wh
m
CURED 344 cases of ERYSIPELAS,
each case in 24 hours, and Never
Failed in One Case ? We have. Or
HYDATIDS for 15 years, and Never
Failed; or BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
which is supposed to be incurable ;
or RINGWORM in Half a Minute ;
or ever actually cured the LIVER
and KIDNEYS in their Worst States
of Disease ; or MARASMUS in Chil-
dren after All Hopes had been Given
Up by all the best medical men ; or
YELLOW JAUNDICE when life was
despaired of; or ECZEMA alter 35
years' suffering; or ASTHMA atter
25 years’ standing ; or DEBILITY at
58 years or any age ? We answer—
WE HAVE CURED ALL
DISEASES,
and we repeat again, WE HAVE ;
and can also CURE Scurvy, Bad
Legs, Piles, Diphtheria, and remove
WORMS of all Sorts (Tape, Ring, and
Thread). We cure at once Itch,
Barbers’ Itch, Coughs, Colds, Bron-
chitis, Catarrh in the Head, Blight
and other Diseases of the Eyes,
Varicose Veins, Deafness, and any
other diseases,
WHEN ALL OTHER TREAT-
MENT FAILS.
We say again WE HAVE, and having
established a Branch of our Melb.
House in Sydney, we ask the people
of N.S.W. to TRY US and See for
Themselves the Wonderful Remedies
WE HAVE.
OUR REMEDIES ARE SAFE, SURE, AND MODERATE IN PRICE.
W. MENTIPLAY & SON.
5 05 i GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, & 188 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS Ss SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the Cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO ALL
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Peregrine, Saturday, June 13, Noon.
Barrabool, Tuesday, Jane 16, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
i
Peregrine, Saturday, June 13, Noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Konoowarra, Tues., June 23, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, June 13, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., June 16, 5 p.m
MACKAY (
TOWNSVILLE f
Leura, Saturday, June 13, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 20, 2 pan
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FAKES TO ALT POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—67 York-street, between King & Barrack streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO. ITB -
Express Passenger Service to and from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, QUEENS-
LAND, and WEST AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO. LTD., Agents.
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
LWGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £66 to £67 10s.
Combination Ticket, £3l 19s. 7d. to =£sB 14s. 2d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; Harrold Bros., Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N.
Co., Brisbane.
Medical.
Dr German Charles,
The well-known Specialist in
TUMORS, CANCERS, ABSCESS, NER-
VOUS and SKIN DISEASES,
late of Riverstone and Lady Robinson’s Beach,
Has RESUMED PRACTICE
at 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, REDFERN.
Hours:
9 a.m. till 1 p.m., 6 tillD p.m. Sundays, 10 to 12 a.m. only.
ADVICE and MEDICINE, 2s. 6d.
The Doctor will visit any part of the country, and all
letters will be attended to, and Medicine forwarded to any
part of the colony. All Ladies’ Complaints are treated
(Electrical and Medicinal) with the greatest success.
Address all communications —
Dr. GERMAN CHARLES,
71 Castlereagh Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
GOOD NEWS !
29 YORK STREET,
Wynyard Square, SYDNEY.
LADIES and GENTLEMEN,
In view of the present depression, I have decided
to Reduce all Fees to Half-Price. This will
afford an opportunity for those of slender means
to avail themselves of my services as a Specialist.
I am the Highest Legally Qualified Specialist
in Australasia, and am therefore prepared to
treat every case which I undertake with confidence
and success, and, if necessary, to give a Stamped
Guarantee to that effect or forfeit <£2oo. My
treatment of
NERVOUSNESS and DEBILITY
has been most successful In all parts of the world,
and I have restored thousands of helpless, miser-
able mortals to renewed manhood and vigor. The
enormous number of testimonials that I have bear
witness to the splendid cures which I have effected
in the treatment of the special and private diseases
of men and women. Anyone applying to me will
receive my honest opinion free of all charges, and
I will send my new pamphlet post free.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
T. COLE-WRIGHT,
M.D., M.Ch., L.M., etc.
gar P.S.—Dr. Cole - Wright’s celebrated
FEMALE TABLET for IRREGULARITIES,
safe and certain, 10s. and <£l per box (extra
strong). This, perhaps, is the most valuable
boon ever offered to the ladies of Australia.
Dr. COLE- WRIGHT’S
female tablets
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even iu the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Prioe 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
Box 979 G.P.0., Sydney,
Tales of the convict system.
Price, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.


orthington Pumping Kngine Company ,
n
V-A
/* /-=^- -i
WORTHINGTON TRIPLE EXPANSION SURFACE
CONDENSING PUMPING ENGINE.
(HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE)
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence St.,
gd
SYDNEY.
trade mark*
Victorian Agency—47s Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOPTHINOTON PUMPS
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
IRRIGATION
SINKING
MINING
CREAMERIES
SUITABLE FOR
GARDEN SUPPLIES
WOOL SCOURING
WOOL DUMPING
WATER SUPPLIES
SEWERAGE
MARINE
TANK FILLING
BOILER FEEDING
Catalogues and Pvices on application.
Medical.
dfg
LOOP POISON
A SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
lor Tertiary BI.OOI) POISON per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You can
be treated at home for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
here we will contract to pay railroad and
steamship fare and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge, if we fail to cure. If you have taken
mercury, iodide potash, and still have aches
and pains, Mucous Patches in the mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots, Ul-
cers on any part of the body, Hair or Eyebrows
falling out, it is this Secondary BLOOD POI-
SON we guarantee to cure. We solicit the most
obstinate cases and challenge the world for
a case we cannot cure. Physicians cannot
cure you. $500,000 capital behind our uncondl
tional guaranty. Absolute proofs sent sealed on
application. Address COOK REMEDY CO*
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A.
MANHOOD RESTORED !
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore you to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, I wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1875.]
American Remedy Depot,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Men “ Women
Should write to us for full particulars of our American
Specific Remedies. Don’t delay. Write at once. It
may save you hundreds of pounds. Address—
AMERICAN REMEDY DEPOT,
Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
r
BOOK OF NATURE
—AND —
Illustrated Marriage Guide.
A FULL EXPLANATION of the ORGANS OF LIFE
and GENERATION IN MANKIND,
Intended for the married, or those intending to marry, and who
desire to inform themselves upon the Intent and Nature of Conjugal
Duties, to which is added a
COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE
Upon all Diseases of the Generative Organs, whether resulting from
Infection or Abuse, illustrated with more than FIFTY ENGRAV-
INGS, by Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D. Price, 3/6; post, 4/-
Amours of Gustavk, from the french, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Decameron, illustrated, 3s.
Rush for the Spoil, Nana, Human Brutes, genuine
editions, by Zola, Is 6d ; post, 2s. Send for new list.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d ;
send for pamphlet giving full contents gratis.
Romance of A Fair Girl's Bathroom, price, Is
6d ; post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Rose Foster, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
The Soiled Dove, post free, Is 6d.
Skittles : Her Adventures, post free, Is 6d.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric
Entertainments, &c-, post free Is 6d.
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics, without a master,
post free Is.
How to Dance, new work, is, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
Wonderful Song Book, extra large, Is 6d post free.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, Illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting, Introductions, Weddings, &c., Is 6d post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartiue, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
j® bricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free, Is 3d. r
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.—
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse,
n health and disease, from infancy to old age, with
the treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s
P r | va te use, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D. ; engravings and
colored plates; new revised Australian edition, price.
2s 6d, post free. ’
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, Radical Remedy in Social
Science, regulating reproduction, latest information
limiting family. Post free, Is 2d. ’
Practical Palmistry, illustrated guide to character
reading. Post free, Is 6d.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. MUSIC OF ALL KINDS. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
TALKS OF TOE CONVICT SYSTEM
Business Announcements.
MEMORY CULTURE.
Pror. Anisette's System of Assimilative
Memory.
A SYSTEM liy which tlie memory can be trained to re-
produce Facia, Quotations, Poetry, arid all the Daily
Occurrences of Life with certainty. Renders success in
examination sure. Oral lectures now being given in
Sydney. Can he leanit also by correspondence. Founded
on sound scientific principles. Apply Prof. A. LOISETTE,
Pox 1234 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Medical.
WARNER S SAFE CURE,
d
NO
OTHER
MEDICINE
CAN
SHOW
such a
RECORD
of
CURES
from
all forms
of
KIDNEY
and
LIVER
DISEASE.
Pamphlet
FREE.
Sold by
all
Medicine
Vendors.
George-st., Sydney,
N.S.W.,
6th September, 1895.
Warner’s Safe Cure Co.,
Melbourne.
Gentlemen,
It is with feelings of sin-
cere gratitude that I write
you, saying what wonder-
ful relief “ Warner’s Safe
Cure ” has given me.
I was suffering from
acute disease of the kid-
neys, followed by dropsy,
and was under no less than
seven different doctors for
two years, being in bed
throughout this time. They
each pronounced my case
hopeless, and I was then
advised to try Warner’s
Safe Cure as a last re-
source, which I did, to-
gether with the Pills, and
after a few bottles I re-
ceived such wonderful bene-
fit as to be able to resume
business.
My case is a well-known
one in Sydney, and all my
friends consider the result
simply miraculous.
I am, Gentlemen,
Yours gratefully,
H. Glenistkb.
£JANCER AND TUMOURS.
A Wonderful and Natural Remedy
—FOR—
Cancers and Tumours.
Pamphlet on the Subject post free on receipt of 4d.
in Stamps. References.
Apply: A. MKEE <3c CO.,
City Medical Hall, Adelaide-st., BRISBANE!.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘Mandarin’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, which
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards and most tender skins
are unanimous in saying that with no
other Razors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbenz’s. Made
by A. Arbenz, Jougne,
France, and Birmingham. Introducer oi tne
original and only genuine “ Gem ” air guns. Insist
upon having guns marked “ Arbenz,” with trade
mark “ A ” in Swiss cross for first quality, and “ B ”
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Of
Principal Importers.
v>’>
■nano*
T~> E _A_ F 3VT ZEJ S S and Head
Noises relieved by using WILSON’S Common-
sense Ear Drums. New Scientifio Invention,
without wire or string—safe, simple, com-
fortable, invisible. Write for pamphlet,
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
mm
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist in all Ner-
vous Diseases, Registered in England and the Colonies
as a Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book. Send
Six Penny Stamps at once. Write your case
freely and confidentially. The charge of
ONE POUND ONLY is made by Dr.
Wallace for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about getting Married ?
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply:—Depression of spirits, bashfulness, in-
ability to look frankly into the eyes of another, head-
ache, hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present T u no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
SWAGMAN: “Could yer give us a pipe of tobacco, mate?”
HORSEMAN : “Yes. I can give you some that was made in America. It’s CAMERON'S TWO SEAS—the best
smoke in the world!”
S WAGMAN: “My oath, it’s good. I’ve bin tryin’ to get it for years.”


BEFORE YOU
LJBAJP!
When you go out shopping, consider, think
of the money in your pocket, and take account
of the many stores whose various attractions
are laid before you. There is A, with temp-
tation in the form of a pretty show ; there is
B, whose wiles are innumerable ; and C,
who says that he is the man for your money ;
and so on, throughout a list as long as
George-street, each smiling dealer has some-
thing to say and to offer.
Please Pause!
Hearken not to the song of the syren, sing
she ever so sweetly ; heed not the voice of
the charmer, charm he never so wisely.
Your pocket’s concerned ; and there are
pirates about. As the poet pertinently puts
it: “There be land-sharks and water-
sharks,” and it is for you to see that your
dealings are with none of these voracious
monsters. Take warning in time, for it will
be no use when the new taxes come round—
and the tax-gatherer won’t take no for an
answer —for you to lead : There would have
been enough and to spare had I been wise
enough to
Buy Everything
AT
ANTHONY HORDERN’S,
ONLY UNIVERSAL FUOVIOEUS.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
COLDS, COUGHS,
INFLUENZA,
SORE THROAT
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
AYERS
Will relieve the most dis-
tressing cough, soothe
the inflamed membrane,
loosen the phlegm, and
induce refreshing sleep.
For the cure of Croup,
Whooping Cough, and all
the pulmonary troubles
to which the young are
so liable, there is no other
remedy so effective as
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral
Made by Dr.J.C.Ayer & Co.,Lowell, Mass., TT.S.A.
In Half-size Bottles,
And also in large 4/6 size.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
4®* The name, Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
is prominent on the wrapper and is blown
in the glass of each bottle. Take no cheap
imitation.
PATjrUT'
6
L_J
WICK REGULAT#*
SC " L=
BRANDT’S
J J
“ANTI-CANPLE.
A Kerosene Candle with ■ New Light
Spreader. For Candlesticks and Carriage
Lamps. Entirely supersedes the ordinary
candle. 110 HOURS’ LIGHT at a COST
of ONE PENNY. Prices—ls 6d and 2s
6d. Postage 4d per pair extra. Last
or years.
Kerosene Gas Stove and
Cooking Apparatus.
No wick, no Smell, Atmospheric Burner :
one flame does 6 operations same time.
From 31,6. Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lampmakers and Importers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
natatorium,
400 Pitt street, Sydney .
THK GRANDEST SWIMMING BATHS IN
AUSTRALIA.
Sea Water Swimming Baths and Hot Sea and
Fresh- Water Plunge Baths.
Open on t reek days for {fentlrmenfroni6 a.m.
to .9 p.rn., and on Sundays till Noon.
PLUNGE BATHS and a Small Swimming
Bath for LADIES DAILY.
NOTE.
During Winter Months, Water will be Warm,
thus making Swimming a Perfect Luxury.
Swiinin i n S' T a-tigHt.
&3T A Fresh Supply of Sea-water Daily.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
*
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
quyer of all other Australian gems.*
ONTSERRAT
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserrat
used in its prod notion
Sold.
THE SMELTING COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office—s 6 Margaret-st., Sydney.
THE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
Illawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in operation
by AUGUST 1896, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, in or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
An ASSAY OFFICE and LABORATORY have been
opened at the Head Office in Sydney, and most com-
modious Assay Offices and Laboratories are now in
course of erection at the works, which will be equipped
in the most Modern Style, at both of which establish-
ments samples of ores of all classes will be tested for
the guidance of those not familiar with the value oi
same.
, Treatment of base refractory ores of low grade a
speciality.
WET WEATHER.
FOOT WEAR.
IT YOU REQUIRE BOOTS FOR YOUR-
SELF, or the WIFE and CHILDREN,
THAT WILL KEEP THE FEET DRY,
WARM, and COMFORTABLE, and NOT
COST TOO MUCH : BEAR this LITTLE
FACT IN MIND—
JOHN HUNTER’S
WEAR BEST
FIT BEST
COST LEAST
And ,this IS WORTH KNOWING and
WORTH REMEMBERING.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
OS’ HEAD BOOT PALACE: CORNER GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
m- BRISBANE BOOT PALACE : CORNER QUEEN & EDWARD STREETS.
E T 9 r%XT JT XV. O S'
1-
*
WORLD-RENOWNED
air jfrodueer $ Je^torer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
« HARLENE ” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Sir-
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Qrey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustaohe.
Tub World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, eto., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
yW It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid 'j. - . fi-K
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
2 « and (triple 2/6 size) 4 6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE" CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
%
PERPRIAU & CO.’S
Most Reliable WATERPROOFS
AND
RUBBER BOOTS. —-
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST—FREE.
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
PARKER’S
Australian Hair Preserver.
Those who use it will never
become Bald.
* * *
It entirely removes Dandruff.
* * *
It promotes the Growth of the
Hair.
*, * *
Ladies will find it a perfect
boon; it is not a dye—it
is not sticky or greasy.
One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
mg
5»
wm
This pure and excellent
remedy is now under Vice-
Regal patronage, and is used
by leading ladies of the colony
with most gratifying results.
If not procurable from your Chemist or Storekeeper, SAMPLE BOTTLE will be sent to you on
receipt of 3/6 in Money Order or Stamps. Testimonials from well-known citizens forwarded on
application to j CURTIN, Sole Agent, 84 Market Street, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & Co.,
Engineers & General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
d. F. Blake Co.’s Direct-Acting Steam Pumps (Single and Duplex)
The Pickering Steam Engine Governor Co.
j A Fay & Egan Co.’s Woodworking Machinery and Supplies
Shutte & Co.’s Korting Boiler Feed Injectors and Ejectors t
W F &J. Barnes Co. Foot & Hand-power Machinery for Joiners and Engineers
“Champion” Lubricating Oils. “Champion” Leather and Cotton Belting
The Tanite Co’s Emery Wheels and Machines
The Ludlow Valve Manufacturing Co
A
$
You Are No Poet—You’re Not
Dead.
(Apropos of some Recent Criticisms.)
You write a bold and dashing song
With all the fire of chivalry,
With all a good man’s hate of wrong
And scorn for all the crimes you see.
Your song may throb with righteous wrath,
Rise with a noble feeling grand,
And fall with woes that haunt the path
The poor tread in this Southern Land.
But this is merely common verse—
“ Malodorous rot,” the critics said,
The stuff that demagogues rehearse ;
You are no poet—you’re not dead.
You catch the weird and solemn tones
The grim Australian deserts breathe,
You learn the song the forest moans,
The strain the troubled waters seethe.
You hear a whisper from the spheres,
The sad, eternal stars o’erhead,
That look in laughter and in tears
Till this strange race called man is dead.
You weave their golden-glinting rays
Into a web of gorgeous sheen,
Where Southern constellations blaze,
Where glorious wonder-worlds are seen.
I can’t admire the song you sing,
The critic cries, and shakes his head ;
The man who died could do the thing—
You are no poet —you’re not dead.
You hear the song the drovers raise,
You ride with them through storm and shine,
Your verse glows with the roaring blaze,
The camp-fire crackles in each line.
Your song shakes with the rushing feet,
Wherever tread the strong and bold
Upon the long and dusty beat
That leads them to the land of gold.
The sheep-dog’s bark, the clash of shears,
The scent of wool from Castlereagh ;
The merry din which greets your ears
You send your readers far away.
You tell a story well, ’tis true,
In lilting verse, the critics said;
But what we have to keep in view
Is this—that you are not yet dead.
When bushrangers are dead and gone
A century of years or so,
And drovers, too, have followed on
With shearers to the camp below;
When all the bush is “civilised ”
And towns are busy far inland,
Your works will be again revised
When people do not understand
What were the themes you wrote about,
Or what a drover’s toil and care,
Or if the shearer was the lout
Who cut the first Australians’ hair.
What was the “ Bush,” at any rate ?
Then full of years and mystery—
Your names, no doubt, will all be great:
At present you’re alive, you see.
The grave’s your place, the critics sing,
Ye poets of the heart and head,
The men who died wrote everything ;
You cannot write —you are not dead.
Melb.
R. STEWART.
Mill : “Is not the circumstance of the
poor respectable 73-year-old woman drowning her-
self, because there is no room in Melb. Benevolent
Asylum, an argument for Woman Suffrage—at all
events, for the placing of women on the board
there ? Look at the crowd of hearty-looking men
in that same Benevolent Asylum, and nothing like
73 years old.”
A.M.P. Teece suggests that Sydney central
railway-station should be somewhere about the
site of Govt. House. “ There are plenty of better
sites for Govt. House.” Certainly— Woolloomoo-
loo, for example; or in the Centennial Park,
where “the nicest people ” disport themselves on
the bike in “the nicest way so far as the horrid
democracy will let them. For at the inaugural
meeting of the Hampden Cycling Club bold, bad
members of the Surry ’llls “ push ” didn’t scruple
to drive up in dirty little sulkies drawn by scraggy
little ponies, and ogle the nicest people as they
pedalled around ; while ladies from “ the Rocks ”
came to stand by and make uncomplimentary re-
marks about calves that wanted stuffing. If
Govt. House is shifted to Centennial Park, Lord
Hampden, as the club’s patron, will doubtless
arrange for the nicest people to exercise in the
nicest way in his new grounds, with all nasty
people shut out by a nice ten-foot fence. Mr.
Teece ’s suggestion is really the nicest of all, and
is bound to be warmly supported by the nicest
| people.


Australian Mutual
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy Chairman ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; B, SHORT, Esq.; JOSEPH
ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ANNUAL INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £432,523,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
Head. Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
A Good Carver
M‘Lean Bros. & Rigg Ltd.,
wants a good knife. We think we have
as good a stock of Cutlery as any house
in Sydney, and we want your opinion
about our think. Call on us if you
want anything in this line, or anything
else in Hardware. Have just landed
the new L.E. and C. Bread Knife, which
is a revelation, price 1/3 —the old style
has now got to go. Razors, hollow
ground, from 1/6 upwards.
512-14 George-st., Sydney.
CatcbiQS Cold
IS easier tbaij
Catcb>Og FiSb!
No experience is wanted for
the former, and plenty of it
for the latter.
To cure a cold you want to
take it at as early a stage as
possible. Directly you feel the
least chill ask your Chemist
for a bottle of
Watt’S
Caragbeci?'
IT ALWAYS CURES.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
w.
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy..
They areperfectin
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that graee-
ful symmetry
which so f a vorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearing C. B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents— J. E. NEWPORT «fc SONS,
Chisholm Lane, Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
486.488&490 CEORCE STREET.
SYDNEY,
TRACE. MARK
The
AWIRb C
AUSTRAL CLOTHIERS & OUTFITTERS.
SAC SUIT
To Measure,
FROM
455.
KAIAPOI, OAMARU, GEELONG,
SCOTCH, and Best
N.S.W. TWEEDS, SERGERETTE,
INDIGO SERGES,
BLACK and BLUE CORKSCREWS.
Boys’ Unrivalled School Suits 4/11
(50 different Patterns)
Boys’ Blue Serge Sailor Suits 4/11
(Trimmed Gold or Black)
S®' - The Largest Juvenile Clothing Stock in the
Southern Hemisphere.
BEST QUALITIES at LOWEST PRICES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST, PATTERNS, TAPE and MEASURE FORM.
All Parcels Carriage Paid, by Boat, Rail or Post.
IRO-^ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
sate
*-*-■ ractio n,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, & c .,
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HFAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTEK M. NOAKES. Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “ THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.
WHITELAW & CO.,
155 Swanston-street, Melbourne, BOOT & SHOE
On receipt of remittance forward, carriage paid to any address in Victoria
any of their specialties in Boots and Shoes, catalogues of which will
be sent on application. Their Hand-made Boots do not creak, are
flexible in the sole, have no nails, pegs, or tacks whatever to wound
the foot, they do not require breaking in, being smooth and clean
inside.
The RATIONAL, a strong, serviceable country boot ... 16/-
~ UNIVERSITY, a town walking and business boot ... 21/
~ HORSE-SKIN, a wide-welt, first-class winter boot ... 22/6
~ American-dressed Russia and Ooze Calf Boots ... 21/-
MACHINE-SEWN BOOTS from 10s. 6d.
MANUFACTURERS,
(other colonies, 1/- extra),
f
The London and Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 AND 33 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY,
Have NOW OPENED a large shipment of SCOTCH and WEST OE ENGLAND TWEEDS
for ATjTC MN and WINTER WEAR. These Goods having been bought previous to the great
rise in price, we can now offer the best value in the colonies
At Our Popular Prices!
Suits to Order - 45/- 55/- 63/- etc.
Trousers „ - 12/6 15/- 16/6 etc.
AIj L WELL SHRUNK AND WELL MADE. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
\\ rite for Patterns, Self-Measurement Forms and Tape. All orders delivered free by post.
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.
Business Announcements.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
Atenaii
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes:—“The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
" a y. a j content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials,
they can do everything that science and experience
BU KR e st to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 Zing Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
S YJDJVE Y, J\. S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment)
TyfU. AUBREY DAVIS, Dentist, of 492 George-
street (Royal Arcade), SYDNEY, has spared no
expense in fitting-up his luxurious consulting rooms with
the latest dental appliances. The Operating Chair is a
work of art, in which the patient can be raised, lowered,
or placed in any required position by hydraulic power!
Extraction is performed painlessly without Ether or
Chloroform, by spraying the gum with a new local
anesthetic—“ Chloride of Ethyl.” Artificial teeth of the
best quality are fitted at prices not much more than half
the rates commonly charged a few years ago.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 GEORGE STREET,
S Y D KT E Y.
Specialties JUST ARRIVED for the XMAS
Trade.
H. Li. Hutchinson ... Manager.
rjl HE LAST OF
SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH an AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
City Mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY, Limited.
.Head Offices: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Chairman—The Hon. John See, M.P.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £163478.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
All Funds Invested in Australia.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 17 Years - £125,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Transacts FIRE Insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Tire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., ,£8478— divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making £82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street) Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society.
The Oldest Mutual h ire Office in Australia.
RESERVE & INVESTMENT FUNDS, £117,020.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £75,000.
PURELI a COLONIAL OFFICE, deriving
its income from New South Wales only, no risks
being taken outside the colony.
A BONUS of 20 PER CENT, has been paid
annually since 1873, divided between Policy-
holders and Shareholders. The amount thus dis-
tributed totals £118,651.
Claims promptly and liberally settled. FIF-
TEEN DAYS’ GRACE allowed for Renewal
of Policies—a protection afforded by no other
Fire Insurance Company.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets, Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd , of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Australian Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide: E. H. Peachby. L. A. Jessop, Director.
Melbourne: D. Clynb. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Important Announcement by Dixson & So7is,
Tobacco JTanufacturers,
The BONANZA CIGAR.
DIXSON & SONS, by the aid of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Price Hitll6l*to XJll"
kHOWH HGFG a Cigar of exceptional quality.
The Finest Cigar Tobacco in the World
comes from Ha'\ ana, and arrangements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Yuelta Abajo).
BONANZA Cigars are made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equally-choice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
4 Full-sized Cigars for 6d.! I —will at first no doubt
be prejudicial j but machinery, overcoming the great cost of production, just
permits a Cigar of such quality and weight to be made at a profit. DIXSON
and SONb intend the Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “ BONANZA ”
comes as a pleasant surprise to many who, though capable of appreciating a
good Cigar, have lately been prevented through retrenched circumstances from
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury.
Note- —Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will be sent (carriage paid) to any
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertisement appears.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 17.—N0. 852.
SATURDAY, JUNE 13, 1896.
Price, 6p.
Thf My/Ena must
To RfPRfSs His
i LAUGHTER ON THF
I SABBATH
; ffy ORpfR
the
Sabbath 15
Strictly ,
PMIdiTEP-
V 'The Sciibafl?
ljjadz utite for
f%n
‘ and
Jacob - "//yd
fararpf- ft,
“X. /Jr. bfj/f
y? *
,/
vcA v?
. /.V/ V > v/j
/ , \^S'/P
y /
< J <y.V ?A
IT IS PROPOSED TO OPEN SYDNEY ZOO ON SUNDAYS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia far the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pm - Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Thb Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you evei-y
week for a year.
Cheques, Drajts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form, of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing icith Aus-
tralian subjects, a>id not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 woids, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendiitg MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or uxish, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street A Co., Cornhill.
South Africa.—it. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
street, Capetmcn. Also in the Transvaal :—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg
Colombo.—H\ M. Smith & Co.
Ful Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Westralia and Maoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
senptron outside N.S. Wales is now £l, Zh t. 2d
post age V ° Staf,e ‘ En 'J land £l, icith 6s. 6d. added for
JL°nl l A WS !r}. Per Ca ,;\ 6e sent ««***« the subsci-iption is
mepaui. There will be no exception to this rule.
SATURDAY, JUNE 13, 1896.
An Unreported Case.
O-YE of the casual straws which show the
direction of the current of justice transpired
—so far as a straw can be said to transpire—
very recently in the Sydney law-courts. It
was in itself a small, mean, commonplace
case concerning an obscure informant, and
some bad beer, and an allegedly trickv
hrm of brewers ; but it is interesting as
showing how things don’t happen, and how
many possibilities there are of blocking the
course of law and of press publicity when
the right people feel that way inclined. The
persons accused were Tooth and Co., the
well-known Sydney brewers, a limited lia-
bility concern of great wealth and respect-
ability, and with an influential body of
shareholders. The charge laid, or attempted
to be laid, was one of swindling the public
revenue by fraudulently obtaining draw-
backs—in other words, of getting, by certain
false pretences, refunds of excise-duty on
liquor that had gone bad in the brewery
and become unsaleable, said refunds
being more than the company was fairly
entitled to. The charge was set forth
in great detail and sworn to by the
informant, and on the surface of things it
certainly looked like a matter which called
for inquiry. Whether or not the plaintiffs’
allegations against this most reputable firm
were ill-founded The Bulletin doesn’t pre-
tend to know ; all that is known is that
the case was never tried. The chamber
magistrate refused to issue a summons against
the influential beerfirm. The Supreme Court
decided that it had no power to interfere.
The Justice Department refused to take
any steps in the matter ; and the daily
papers, though their reporters were in atten-
dance, quietly omitted all mention of the
matter from first to last, though the hearing
of the application to the Full Court for the
issue of a criminal summons occupied a whole
morning, and was the means of postponing
the sensational Meagher case for some days'!
All of which was so utterly unlike the usual
processes of N.S.W. law and journalism, as
to arouse a suspicion that an influential
brewery - concern stands on a somewhat
different level from the ordinary or garden
variety of defendant.
The proceedings began on 2nd December
last by an attempt to lay an information
before Magistrate Paytex, of Sydney. In
the case of a cheap and nasty defendant a
summons almost automatically follows the
laying of an information. When an ap-
parently sane plaintiff, with an address at
which he can be found when wanted, and a
respectable legal adviser, and a circumstantial
tale to tell, is prepared to swear that an
offence has been committed, the law almost
invariably assumes that he should be allowed
to prove his charge if he is able to do so,
and that the accused should likewise be
given a public opportunity of establishing
his innocence ; in the present instance, how-
ever, the magistrate refused to issue the
summons until he had consulted with and
been advised by two high Customs officials.
And apparently the said officials decided
against the issue of a summons, for it was
ultimately refused. The said officials were
hemselves in some measure defendants in
he case: the information charged Tooth
and Co. directly with defrauding the revenue ;
therefore it indirectly charged the Customs
department with having allowed the revenue
to be defrauded. This is at least one reason
why any ordinary Customs official might be
glad to hear nothing more about the case,
and whj 7 the decision should not have been
left with the Customs at all. The decision
that there was really no fraud at all, and not
sufficient semblance of one to call for inquiry,
seems to have been arrived at by the Customs
Department sitting as a secret court of
inquiry ; having appeared before itself, it
unanimously acquitted both the directly and
the indirectly accused—the latter consisting
>f itself.
* * * *
Magistrate Paytex is the only functionary
o whom the application could be made in the
irst instance, and when he refused—ap-
larently on the advice, as already
hown, of some more or less interested
parties —to move in the matter, the
proceedings, in the ordinary course of
affairs, came to a deadlock. The next
step was therefore to apply to the Supreme
Court for an order directing the magistrate
to issue the summons. And the Supreme
Court decided, upon the strength of an
English precedent, to refuse to interfere in
the matter. Therefore, it appears that Mr.
Paytex is an autocrat who can ignore a
sworn information and prevent even a pre-
liminary public enquiry into what may, or
may not, be a matter of great public import-
ance. If this decision is good law, then there
is one more law in New South Wales which
badly needs revision. In a case where the
Attorney-General shows no sign of moving ;
and the magistracy refuses—on the advice of
more or less indirectly interested officials,
whose judgment may be unconsciously biassed
by their position—to let a private individual
move ; and the officials in question, having
already helped to block the private prose-
cutor, can’t be expected to move themselves,
it appears that there is absolutely no means
of compelling a public investigation. A
system whereby one very small official can
smother an accusation—whether it be well-
founded or otherwise—before it even begins
to see the light, contains so many possibili-
ties of evil that it needs to be promptly
suppressed.
* * * •
For some reason or other the proceedings
in the Supreme Court were left wholly unre-
ported in the daily papers. Whether this
was done by direction of the Court or by the
press on its own account The Buxletix
doesn’t know for certain, but either way it
shows a remarkable tenderness for the feel-
ings of the big brewery co., such as smaller
concerns, which haven’t a paid-up capital of
£900,000 and £68,000 of reserves, seldom
experience. When the matter cropped up
in the Assembly the results were about
equally satisfactory. The questions asked
and the replies of the Minister were as
follows :
1. Was an application made recently to a city magis-
trate for the issue of a criminal summons against Messrs
Tooth and Co., brewers ? 2. If so, what were the grounds
of the application ? 3. What reason does the mao-istrate
assign for refusing to issue the summons? Mr. Gould
answered 1. Yes ; for a summons for obtaining monev
b>’ false pretences. 2. On the ground that the Slid com-
pany obtained a refund of £53 11s., paid by them for dutv
on beer, on their fraudulent representation that the beer
had become bad, and had been destroyed at the com-
pany s brewery. 3. As the alleged fraud concerned the
Consolidated Revenue, the Collector of Customs was con-
sulted upon the matter, and that officer explained that
full inquiry had been made by his department, with the
result that he had come to the conclusion that no fraud
had been perpetrated, but that, in fact, a sum slightlv in
excess of the duty required bad been paid, and that if
there had been any suspicion of fraud the Customs Depart-
ment would have taken action. In this refusal I fullv
concurred.
* * * *
This is an elaborate evasion of the whole
question. The charge was not that Tooth
and Co. had made a “ fraudulent representa-
tion that the beer had become bad ; ” the
question at issue was whether they hadn’t
obtained a refund of excise-duty on certain
liquors which had gone bad, but some of
which had never paid excise at all. Also,
while the complainant gave his reasons in
full for believing or professing to believe that'
a fraud had been perpetrated the Customs
department apparently gave no reasons for
believing that it had not. Further, the
allegation that Tooth and Co. had paid
rather more than the duty which was legally
due, had no earthly connection with the
matter, and no one had said anything to the
contrary ; the question was whether they did
or did not claim and receive back again more
of the duty originally paid than they
were entitled to. The statement that they
had originally paid the proper amount
was as irrelevant as an assurance that the
principal shareholders had duly liquidated
their dog-tax. The question as to the magis-
trate’s reason for blocking all inquiry was
not answered at all ; it was merely stated
that the Customs department wasn’t moving
in the matter itself, which fact was already
known, whereas the real point at issue was
the action of some person or other in pre-
venting a private individual moving at his
own risk and on his own responsibility The
law, as a rule, allows any person to take
action against any other person, provided the
accuser seems to be clothed and in his right
mind, and his solicitor is in the same de-
sirable state, and he is prepared to allege
that a crime has been committed. Then it
sets the machine in motion, and supplies a
judge to see that the two parties fight the
matter out publicly according to certain
fixed rules ; and its refusal in the present
case to let the machine move at all looks
most remarkable.
* * * *
The amount at issue is certainly a very
small one. The case was also a small one.
The complainant, so far as The Bulletin
knows, is a person of no more importance
than the average, and the reputation of
Tooth & Co. is such that the public would
be greatly astonished to find the charges
verified. The whole matter is only interest-
ing because it arouses a suspicion that
the law has powers not before suspected
to smother inquiry, provided it cares to
use them. In the present instance, a distinct
and serious allegation was made which in-
directly affected certain public officials, and
the magistrate smothered it at the outset,
allegedly on the advice of these same officials.
Then the Supreme Court decided that it was
wholly at the mercy of the said magistrate.
The Customs Department declines to move
publicly in the matter ; to do so would be to
allege that it had been badly taken in, which
would be unpleasant in any case, and besides
the Customs Department seldom moves pub-
licly, but compounds with offenders against
the tariff law by fines that are paid more or
less secretly. The Crown Law department
doesn’t move, apparently on the advice of
the Customs department ; and it also refuses
to know what the charge really is, and gives
reasons that have no earthly connection with
the matter. Altogether the whole case,
whatever the merits of it might be if they
were threshed out, is an interesting evidence
of how the law and the press and the Govern-
ment can sit on the head of a small plaintiff
who is trying to proceed against a very large
defendant, if it feels so inclined, and of how
things sometimes don’t happen in New South
Wales.
The “Lands for Closer Settlement”
Scheme.
Is Xew South Wales, where a little over one
million people are scattered loosely over
198,000,000 acres of country, land available for
settlement has already become scarce. So
much of the coastal district has been jobbed
away in immense areas to speculators, squatters
and syndicates that, despite the general empti-
ness of the province, there is practically no
land now obtainable on which the agriculturist
can make a living—assuming, that is, that he
desires to live as a civilised being and not
degenerate to the level of the aboriginal or the
Polynesian beachcomber. There is abundance
of vacaut soil to be had “out back,” but it is
not available in any reasonable sense. Land
available for agricultural purposes must, in the
first place, be reasonably well-watered, and in
the western regions water is scarce and drought
plentiful. It must be in a district moderately
well supplied with roads, and in the
regions where land is to be had at a not
absolutely-impossible price roads are few
and bad, and the Govt, can’t supply good
ones for want of population to pav for
their maintenance. Also, it must have cheap
railway communication with the centres of
population, which all lie on or near the coast,
else the agriculturist can’t compete with the
importer of foreign produce blessed, as he is,
with comparatively inexpensive sea carriage ;
and to make railway communication cheap °he
land must be situated comparatively near the
sea-board. L nder these circumstances the-
Reid Government has been moved to introduce
a measure called the “ Lands for Closer Settle-
ment Bill,” which authorises the State to re-
purchase large properties suitable for agricul-
tural purposes, and re-sell or lease them on easy
terms to small settlers. The proposed measure
has so far been received with unexpected
enthusiasm in many quarters where such enthu-
siasm was wholly unexpected. It is a very
short document, which professes to aim at the
same purpose as the land-resumption law of
Maoriland, and the way it contrives to avoid
getting straight at that purpose, and the manner
in which it deviates into bye-ways of suspicion
and possible boodle are remarkable.
* * * *
in the first place it does not definitely appear
that the measure gives the State any powers of
compulsory acquisition, therefore it starts with
a most conspicuous failure. If the Ministry
desires to obtain a certain property it is simply
authorised to “ enter into provisional agree-
ments with the owners of the said land as to
purchase thereof or compensation therefor to-
gether with any improvements which may be
situated thereon.” If the agreements ‘ are
ratified by Parliament then, after certain other
formalities, the purchase of the land may pro-
ceed. As the Ministry can’t enter into an
agieement with anybody unless the person in-
volved also enters into an agreement with the
Ministry, it would seem that the matter is
purely optional on both sides, and the seller
need not agree at all unless he gets his own
price. YY hen this difficulty is surmounted, the
Ministry, having entered into the agreement,
is bound to assure Parliament that it is a good
and square bargain ; and as the direct Govern-
ment party will probably support it under all
circumstances, because it is its business to sup-
port the Government under all circumstances
and many members of other parties won’t
oppose because they have no personal knowledge
of the matter, or because they also have land
to sell to the Government, and as the Govern-
ment generally has a majority in any case the
matter will, in most instances, go through’win,
little difficulty. But the first essential is that
the State must offer a price which will induce
the owner to sell. And as the trouble to b
remedied is not the want of good land, nor th
want of owners who are willing to sell’ but th*
want of owners who will sell at anything even
faintly resembling what their property is worth
this arrangement doesn’t appear to advance
matters much. The would-be agriculturist can
get land already if he is prepared to pay the
same owner, or another just like him, a high
enough price to induce him to sell—which he
isn’t, because the price is so high as to be nr»„
tically prohibitive. P ac '
• * * .
The mode of purchase, in fact, is not verv
widely different from that hitherto adopted in
the case of lands required for railway or other
public purposes. The sale not being compul
sory, the matter practically resolves itself into
a scramble between the .State and the land
owner, and the general results of that method
in the past have been that the State paid from
two to twelve tunes the fair market-value of
the property. The only improvement intro-
duced is the power of revision by Parliament
which may amount to much or little or almost
nothing, according to circumstances. But even
this power is more apparent than real The
second clause of the Bill provides that the
Government may, if it feels so inclined, resume
land, apparently in the same good old way which
has led to so much disaster in the past, leaving
the compensation to he settled as it is at present
when resumptions are made for railway or
other public purposes. This certainly ap-
pears to mean that the settlement will
be . arrived at by private agreement, or
arbitration, or by a jury, and these are exactly
the means whereby the State has been systema-
tically robbed on an enormous scale in years
gone by. The bill itself contains no explana-
tion as to why the Ministry demands this ex-
traordinary power of acting outside Parlia-
mentary authority ; it provides, in the first
place, that the Legislature shall at least have
the power of placing its veto on any transaction
that looks more than usually nefarious; and,
iu the second place, that the Legislature shall
have no veto worth mentioning unless the
Ministry feels so inclined. Premier Reid adds
a little further darkness to the matter by the
following explanation which he offered to the
Assembly on the second reading debate :
It was true that the power of resumption had proved
verv- dangerous in the past. No one had a more vivid
recollection of the enormous amount of public money
which had been sacrificed under powers of resumption
than he had. But these dangers practically disappeared
in the proposal before the House, for the reason that the
power of resumption was only intended to be applied with
reference to lands which had been the subject of pro-
visional agreement, as was provided in the earlier part of
the bill. The clause providing for resumption stated that
the Governor may resume any lands referred to in the
“ aforesaid notification.” That notification was published
in the Gazette after all the conditions and safeguards in
the bill had been carried out. First of all, there was the
provisional agreement between the Minister and owner;
secondly, the submission of the agreement to both Houses
of Parliament; and thirdly, the approval of the Houses
having full information. Only after these proceedings
could the notification appear in the Gazette authorising
the Governor to resume. The danger of land resumption
of former days was almost entirely, if not altogether, got
rid of under the bilL
» * * »
From these obscure explanations it appears that
after the price of the land has been agreed upon,
and the Legislature has sanctioned the purchase
at the aforesaid price, the Government may, if
it pleases, complete the purchase on the terms
approved by Parliament. Or it may, for no
visible reason, “ resume ” the land with no re-
ference whatever to the terms fixed by Parlia-
ment, and leave the compensation to be after-
wards decided by private agreement, or arbitra-
tion, or by the award of a jury—which award
may be several times the amount sanctioned by
the Legislature. Therefore the Legislature
may authorise a purchase solely because the
land is offered at <£lo,ooo, and by virtue of
its authorisation the purchase may be completed
at .£50,000. If this is what the bill means
it is about the most amazing proviso
ever inserted in any Act of Parliament.
And if this isn’t what it means then it is diffi-
cult to understand that the clause in question
contains any meaning whatever. The Bill
states, it is true, that the process of resumption
may be resorted to “if necessary,” but it
doesn’t define the necessity, which matter,
apparently, is left to the discretion of the
Ministry. And if the land under consideration
happens to be the property, sub ro*a, of a
member or supporter or relation or business
connection of the Ministry, and Parliament
refuses to take it except at a price much below
the owner’s idea of its value, the power to
decide that the aforesaid necessity has some-
how arisen, and thereby to remove the question
of price wholly’ out of the jurisdiction of Parlia- •
ment, may prove of great importance. More-
over, the Bill declares that “the exercise of the
power of resumption shall not be subject to any
other condition precedent than the aforesaid
notification in the Gazette.” Therefore it is
an open question whether the Bill doesn’t give
power to resume land without the matter being
laid before Parliament at all—in other words,
whether it doesn’t authorise the Government to
run the whole business without consulting any-
body.
* * * *
The amount to be expended on land pur'
chases in any one year is limited to £300,000,
and this sum is authorised to be raised by the
sale of debentures bearing interest at not more
than 4 per cent, with a currency of not more than
40 years. But it is further provided that, if the
seller of the land is agreeable, lie may receive
the debentures in payment, instead of the
money raised by their sale in the open market.
This opens up another brilliant prospect of pos-
sible boodle. At present N.!>. V\. 4 per cent,
debentures are worth <£ll2 in the open market-
If the Ministry is negotiating the purchase of a
large estate for, say, ,£200,000, it may raise the
money by selling .£ISO,OOO worth of 4 per cent,
debentures at- a shade over ,£lll net. Or »
may, if it feels particularly good towards the


eller, pay him with 4 per cent, debentures for
£200,000, the selling value of which would be
£224,000. There is no evidence, of course,
i hat any Ministry would use this power, but,
at any rate, the power exists, and it certainly
should not exist. In the case of payment by
debentures either the 4 per cent, limit should be
cut down to, at most, 3£, or it should be ex-
pressly stipulated that the State securities shall
he taken, not at their nominal amount, but at
their current selling price in the local market.
Otherwise the transaction may be a private
sale, without competition, of valuable securities
at very much below their real value.
* * * *
The whole policy of the Bill, in short, is
vicious and objectionable, and full of possibili-
ties of future evil. The Crown should, in the
first place, be endowed with the power of com-
pulsory purchase if any good is to result. The
valuation should be the land-tax valuation, with
such an amount added—whether it be 10, or
15, or even 20 per cent. —as Parliament shall
consider fair compensation for disturbance.
Under the old resumption system New South
Wales has seen the value of a piece of land
sworn to for probate purposes at, say, £5 an
acre, and the same land sworn to by the same
valuers a few months later for State purposes
at several times the amount, and it has also
paid for it on this inflated basis. Under the
new resumption system it will one month see
values sworn to for land-tax purposes at £1 an
acre, and the next it will be called upon to re-
purchase the same property at twice or three
times that figure, and this new species of fraud,
which is only a variation of the old fraud of
which the country is so weary, requires to be
suppressed with a strong hand. By assuming
the land - tax valuation, with a certain
fixed margin, as the standard, Parliament
will at least take the matter to a great
extent out of the range of boodle
and political influence and secret negotia-
tion. Also, the administration of the Act
should be placed, not in the hands of the Minis-
try, but in those of permanent officers, so that
Parliament cannot be driven to agree to a
nefarious bargain lest it should thereby overturn
the Government, and bring in a new fiscal
system, and lose the benefit of all the unfinished
legislation then on hand. Under the system of
Government by Contradiction Parliament has
often allowed a Ministry to do objection-
able things because the only alternative
was the ejection of the entire Cabinet, and
because the only alternative after that was
a new Cabinet composed of men who had a
tendency to do still worse things, and past ex-
perience in this direction supplies good evidence
that the powers of the Government for doing
works of boodle should not be further enlarged.
And, in the present case, the unexpected en-
thusiasm shown by many of the opponents of
t he Reid Ministry, and the cordial rallying to
its standard of the veteran syndicators and
land-jobbers of the Assembly, is a powerful
reason why the country should think specially
hard over the matter. When the landowners
and the loan and mortgage men and the squatters
and the embarrassed banks unanimously approve
of a scheme for selling land to the Government,
the community naturally wonders whose land
is going to be sold and at what price.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Aggressive J. Bull.
The commercial world awaits with interest the
decision of the Vic. Full Court as to whether
the English reconstruction of the N.Z. L. and
M.A. Co. is binding on Yic. creditors. The
primary Judge, after considerable argument,
had decided that it was not. In the event of
his judgment being upheld, it is the intention
of the co. to appeal to the Privy Council.
There are expressions in the British Bank-
ruptcy Acts which leave no doubt that, when
the British Parliament legislated on certain
bankruptcy proceedings analogous to these, it
legislated for the whole Empire. Such expres-
sions are wanting in the British Companies
Acts, which on their face appear to be purely
local. The contentions of the co. are of more
than legal importance, as may be gathered from
the fact that Todd’s “ Parliamentary Govern-
ment in the Colonies ” is one of the books cited
by its opponents. Pushed to an extreme, in-
deed (not a hard matter, in law), the position
contended for might be made a powerful lever
for loosening the foundation of the qualified
local independence we are supposed to enjoy in
Australia. We are at present subject, without
representation of any kind, to all sorts of English
legislation, framed from the point of view of
English interests solely, on bankruptcy,
naturalisation, merchant shipping, marriage,
extradition, patents, copyright, trademarks,
and a host of other such subjects ; but there
lias always been a kind of unwritten law to the
effect that on any other subjects we were not
affected unless we were expressly named. We
are not named in this Companies’ Arrangement
Act, and, although it may seem just enough
from one point of view, that the same law
should be in force with regard to bankrupt
companies and bankrupt individuals, from
another point of view it is most undesirable
that the whole empire might be held, by any
tinpot court in it, to be affected by any loosely-
drafted provision in any obscure Act, perhaps
even an inaccessible private Act, just because it
was enacted by the Parliament dominant of
that small part of the said empire known as
England. Even as it is, Australians would be
astounded if they knew the number of impor-
tant Acts, affecting them often in their daily
lives, in the making of which they have had no
say whatever, and of which they are utterly
unaware until, under the provisions of an Eng-
lish extradition Act, they are dragged back
under arrest to Adelaide, say, for going to Mel
bourne on a visit while owing a S.A. tailor’s
bill. The theory of the dominance of the British
Parliament is capable of being carried to
such extraordinary lengths as it is, that any
extension of it in the way sought in the present
case may reasonably be viewed with positive
alarm. If the expression “ all creditors, ” in a
local English Companies’ Act, is held to apply by
implication toall creditorsin the British Empire,
and to bind them, what is to prevent “ all
persons shall lift their hats to the squire ” in
some English “ Act for the Encouragement of
Toadstools ” being construed to apply to Wool-
loomooloo or Collingwood ? Anyhow, this case
and others like it serve to show us in Australia
that there is a good deal of humbug about our
boasts of being self-governing concerns, and the
sooner we wake to the danger of the delusion
the better.
The Position of Trustee Co’s.
The experiment of allowing companies to
undertake work hitherto confined by English
law to individuals is now several years old, and,
judging by dividends, has been fairly success-
ful. But both the original South African
experiment and our own have, and will have,
the troubles and petty annoyances incident to
innovations. The law refuses to give these
companies an inch more rope than is allowed
them in the Acts constituting them, and, as a
consequence, new legislation is continually made
necessary to give them complete status as
trustees. A point which was raised without
being decided in the Melbourne Supreme
Court lately illustrates the caution of the
Courts, while at the same time it indicates to
the public the kind of pitfalls likely to be
hidden in the regions of company trusteeship. A
man had appointed his wife and a trustee co.
joint executors of his will. The co. claimed
the usual commission, which was resisted by
the wife on the ground that the co’s Act didn’t
permit it to act as joint executor, and that,
therefore, as companies joint execu-
tors before the Act was passed, they couldn’t now.
The Judge was struck with the point, and, as
hundreds of estates are in the same position,
offered to get the opinion of the Full Court in
the matter ; but the case was settled on another
ground. The public’s interest is obvious,
and, having regard to this particular type of
case and to mauy others which may possibly
turn out to be instances of unauthorised com-
panies meddling in administrations, it would be
interesting to knowhow things really stand. The
whole question of satisfactory guarantees for
the absolute contingent solvency of all institu-
tions such as insurance and trustee companies,
banks and building societies, which live on and
by public confidence supported by Parliament-
ary endorsement, needs to be re-opened and
re-modelled. It shouldn’t be possible that we
should have to witness, in the fullness of
time, the same sort of crashes in connection
with trustee or insurance companies as have
been experienced in the case of banking and
other public trading companies. However rosy
things may be now, cholera and administration
actions are always possible, and are about
equally deadly on their respective feeding-
grounds when they get fairly to work.
The Claim of Brother Mike.
A bulky and expensive lawsuit was heard re-
cently in Melbourne to decide whether or not a
man now deceased had transferred his property,
valued at £l6OO, to his wife by “undue in-
fluence ” on her part. There were no children,
so the deceased’s brother Michael, who
appeared as plaintiff, was entitled to a share
in the estate if the transfer to the old woman
could be upset. This sort of thing lends weight
to The Bulletin’s theory that where there are
no children a widow should have first claim on
the assets of her deceased husband up to, say,
£5OOO, that being an amount which, invested in
State securities, would support an ordinary
widow decently. In most cases when the aged
house-father leaves a little bit of land behind him
at his death, he and his wife have pegged away
together to accumulate the property. And
when the property, as generally happens, is
barely sufficient to maintain the old lady for
the remainder of her days, the law which
enables the deceased’s brother Mike to claim
half of it, and more or less burst-up the
little estate in law-expenses to enforce his claim,
looks rather one-sided. Even if the widow
had nothing to do with the acquirement of the
property, she had at least to put up with the
deceased, and old men w 7 ho leave property be-
hind them are generally disagreeable and rather
hard to put up with, and unpicturesque to boot.
Moreover, brother Mike, in the majority of
instances, had nothing to do with the accumu-
lation of the property either, so where his
claim comes in against the widow is difficult
to understand. The present law is contrary to
public policy, for brother Mike, in most cases,
can support himself, and the widow, in most
cases, can’t; and by depriving her of half the
estate, especially if there is very little estate
altogether, she is often accelerated into the
Benevolent Asylum, where she becomes an
expense to the community. When a citizen
departs this life, leaving no w ill, no children, a
widow, and a few hundred pounds, and after
his funeral expenses are paid the widow gets
half what is left, and all the old man’s remote
relatives divide the remainder, and the expenses
of hunting up ail the relatives are taken out of
the estate before it is divided, there is very
little satisfaction in the business for anybody.
And, in any case, this world is a cold place for
any elderly widow, so The Bulletin votes
against Brother Mike in all his aspects.
If the N.S.W. cement industry, practically
closed up, makes a fresh start, it must be on
the basis of about 10 hours’ work per day and
about 30 per cent, less wages. The stereotyped
Foreign-trader insists on professing that Pro-
tectionists demand Protection as a mere tem-
porary expedient to be abandoned as soon as a
new industry gets fairly afloat, and they want
to know, in a derisive tone, if Protection isn’t a
failure, seeing that after many years of tariff
support the cement industry can no more stand
alone than it could at its inception. Which is
about as logical as wanting to know why a
country should maintain a police-force for pro-
tection against criminals, if after maintaining a
police-force for many years it is no more able to
get on without it than it was at the beginning.
In an industry which is exposed to foreign com-
petition Protection is wanted until the local
men are willing to do as much work for as little
pay as the cheapest of their foreign competitors,
which the Labor-party naturally objects to ; or
until all foreign workmen reach the Australian
wage and hour standard, which seems a long
way off; or until freights rise so high that they
make up for the difference in cost of production,
which, as freights keep going down, seems still
further off; or until the world’s supply falls so
far behind the demand as to raise prices to the
point at which the industry can stand paying
the Australian rate of wages, which event is
only possible in a very few industries. And if
none of these things happen, either Protection
must go on for ever or the unprotected industry
must perish.
♦
A Bulletin correspondent who is in a position
to know what he is writing about: —
There are a good many things in the Vic. rail-system
which require Commissioner Mathieson’s attention. The
ordinary safety-margin in matters of maintenance, the
present officers to the contrary, notwithstanding, has
been shamefully narrowed. It is a fact, notorious in the
western district, that engines running daily from the
Geelong depot go often for weeks without a touch from
the cleaners’ waste. The chance of detecting a flaw in
the machinery, under such circumstances, the public may
estimate for themselves. The state of passenger rolling-
stock is eloquently portrayed in this ; that during last
Easter holidays the roof of a carriage became partially
detached while running and hung only by one corner till
repaired at a country station. The junior clerks of the
department are cruelly sweated. Parliament insisted last
session that men on low salaries should receive incre-
ments. They have received them, but involving as
they 7 have done loss of pay for Sunday work,
the poor devils find, in many cases, that the
“increments” resulted in an actual reduction in jay.
Men are employed discharging coal from trucks at Port
Fairy at the rate of twopence per ton. Eightpenee is con-
sidered a reasonable price for the work, yet the Govt,
goes abroad loudly to suppress sweating ! Political in-
fluence is as rife as ever it was. All kinds of people—
mostly those who can well afford to pay—travel here and
there and everywhere on Parliamentary passes. A concert
was , held in a Gippsland electorate last week —the local
member in chair - two singers were brought from Mel-
bourne for the occasion and both travelled on the divinely
vague and magic cardboard. This, under ordinary 7 circs.,
is unjust, but taken in conjunction with the facts that
employes are virtually robbed to make the railways pay,
it is positively indecent. —Yours, Dargs.
A bold declaration of the comparative insig-
nificance of the poor man, according to law,
was made by Judge Chomley, at Horsham,
Vic., the other day, in a case of seduction. The
girl and her father, a selector, sued a local
squatter, and his Honor awarded ,£75 damages.
Quote :
His Honor said that, were the plaintiff not a man in a
very humble position in life, and practically without
means, the damages would be much greater. The con-
duct of the defendant towards him had been very gross,
and such as warranted a measure of damages far in excess
of the merely technical loss sustained. There was not
one law for the rich and another for the poor, but, in
awarding damages to them, the circumstances of parties
and the value of money to them must be taken into ac-
count.
So, if a man is earning £lOO a year, his] daugh-
ter’s honor is worth £75 ; if he is earning
£lO,OOO, it is worth £7500 ; and yet it must
not be thought for a moment that there is one
law for the rich and another for the poor—
Heavens, no ! The spirit of the law that esti-
mates the pain of a broken heart pro rata with
the income of the owner is identical with the
Tory-principle of the property-vote, and it is a
melancholy thing to find both prevailing in an
alleged democratic community.
A few months ago a N.S.W. country parish-
priest contracted for certain additions to his
church. Before the job was finished a garnishee
order for an old judgment against the contractor
was served on the priest. The contract was
thrown up, and finished by the priest, against
whom the workmen employed immediately got
attachment-orders for wages due by the con-
tractor. The contractor had been paid all the
money he was legally entitled to draw at the
time he surrendered the contract — i.e., 75 per
cent, on the work done. The priest had only
enough money on hand, after completing the
work, to pay half the claims, and he did not
know where to begin: to pay the old debt
on the garnishee-order or to pay the men
who worked daily before his face under a back-
country December sun. He thought the wages
claim came first, and accordingly put in a
defence against the first garnishee-order in the
interests of the workers—especially as there
was actually no money legally payable (though
due) to the contractor when the first garnishee-
order was served. The case came before Judge
Gibson, who did not decide it in court, but
sent up his decision from Sydney after some
time. This was that the first order for an old
debt was binding, as the money was accruing
to the contractor, and all the costs were given
against the priest. Thus a contractor’s old
debt is given precedence against wages on a
current contract, and the laborers lose their
hardly-earned money A crying injustice. A
contractor’s workmen should have first and
absolute lien on the profits of his contract. As
N.S. W. law says otherwise, Parliament should
ticket that law for alterations.
Under N.S.W Education Act, clergymen of
any denomination are allowed an hour per week
in which to impart religious instruction to the
scholars. The practice is, on these occasions,
for the teachers to cull from the whole school
all the children who profess the brand of
religion which the visiting parson has on tap ;
these are marched into a separate class-room
and left, for the time being, in the minister’s
sole charge. Meanwhile, none of the classes
outside has a full complement of scholars, and
the teachers, under the circumstances, naturally
refrain from giving any important lessons. They
simply while away the hour. And, as some of
the large metropolitan schools have an average
of three parsons interrupting the school in this
manner three different times weekly, the whole
school thus literally loses at least three hours
of its teaching-time every week. But often the
loss of time doesn’t end here. There is the
time lost in drafting the- youngsters into the
religious-instruction class, and in getting them
back again into their respective classes ; and
over and above this, the time that the parson
himself wastes by not turning up at the ap-
pointed hour, and when he doesn’t turn up at
all, as often happens. Were the Act altered
so to allow of religious instruction being
given after school-hours only, it would meet a
long-felt want.
Svdney D.T., in recognising editorially “the
impotence of parliamentary government,” sug-
gests the small reform that more Bills should
be originated in the N.S.W. Leg. Council. The
questions involved are much larger. The red-
tape “constitooshun ” of “party government ”
—Government by Contradiction ” —needs to be
asphyxiated. An elective government, each
member of the administration to be balloted for
by “ the House ” ; the abolition of the Attor-
ney-General as a political potentate; the
abolition altogether of the portfolios of the
Minister of Justice and the Postmaster-General,
making the working departments only re-
sponsible to (say) the Chief Secretary; the
abolition probably of one or two other redun-
dant portfolios ; the_ making it possible for
“ the House ” to kick out one Minister without
touching his colleagues ; the appointment of
committees to shape and present Bills to “ the
House,” after the fashion of lowly municipali-
ties ; and a rigorous set of rules to curtail the
eloquence of jawbone members —are among a
few of the needed reforms that at once present
themselves to the mind. The Tory “organs,”
however, only sec that the nominee chamber of
irresponsible soniles should have more and more
power, and demand that the Constitution
should be amended solely on its behalf.
Victorian women don’t seem as plucky as
their English congeners in claiming their pos-
sible rights. On the flimsiest of grounds,
sometimes, English women have sought and
gained election to boards and councils through
some cranny of the law. Occasionally, o
course, they’ve been thwarted. That’s all in
the game. But although Victorian women
have a strong prima facie case on the question
of their eligibility as members of the Assembly,
no one of them has yet raised the requisite
pluck, or cash, or public spirit, or whatever
it is, to storm the hustings. The position
appears to be as follows : The Constitution
Amendment Act provides that a candidate
for election to the Legislative Council
must be a male person with certain quali-
fications, and that an elector must be a
male person with certain other qualifications.
The same Act also provides that an elector for
the Assembly must be a male person, but that
a candidate for membership of the Assembly
must be a subject of the Queen with certain
qualifications, of which sex does not appear to
be one. Male electors for Council and Assembly,
male candidates for Council, but merely sub-
jects of the Queen as candidates for the Assem-
bly. The inference certainly is, especially if
the Acts Interpretation Act is dragged in, that
women are eligible as candidates for the Assem-
bly. Of course, the courts may have a say in
the matter, or the Parliament itself, and that
may mean much. “ Male ” may be rejected as
“surplusage,” the Acts Interpretation Acts
may “ not apply ” or be held to be ultra vires
in this connection, the lex et consuetudo Parlia-
ment may galvanise itself for this occasion only,
the intention of the framers of the Constitution
Act and Statute may be dragged neek-and-crop
from the vasty deep, but for all that the letter
of the Act is in favor of the she-M.L.A., if she
likes to try to avail herself of it.
Victorian Artists’ Exhibition.
The Yio. Artists’ Society is just now exhibiting a
small collection of pictures described as “per-
manent.” This permanency is subject to pur-
chases, removals and exchanges of one picture for
another, but seeing that some of the exhibits are
likely to remain on the premises as long as they
can find hanging-space the show is quite perman-
ent enough. In the meantime, it has been spread
around the Society’s best room, and deserves
respectful notice. Gov. Brassey performed the
opening ceremony, anyway. Also, he did honor
to the occasion by buying one of president
Mather’s pictures for 60 guineas.
Mather’s picture aforesaid is a comparatively
poor sample of his skill, entitled “ Near Cape
Schank ” —unlovely rocks, sea, and sky, such as
many a worse artist might treat more feelingly.
The breakage of water upon the reef is denoted
by a large upstanding blob of white paint, solid
as the head on a pint of ale. Governor B. should
easily be able to get better value from the presi-
dent’s brush at some future time. “ The Dawn of
Night,” by J. Forde Patterson, will satisfy the
veteran’s admirers. Darkness is creeping over a
tall, thin slice of Gippsland mountain-range, and
a dull green sense of reality comes from the canvas.
F. M‘Cubbin contributes another of his large,
misty, yet gaudy Victorian landscapes—“ A Bush
Camp ” —in which the commonplace figures are
well situated and not badly drawn, whilst the
effect of sunshine through the trees is distinctly
clever. Nature and M'Cubbinism struggle for
supremacy in this meritorious work, and the con-
test terminates in a draw.
“ When Daylight Dies ” is a convincing expanse
of sea at sunset time, with three children paddling
in the foreground. The youthful figures belong
to the impressionist school, being featureless and
unfinished. Had Tudor St. G. Tucker felt equal
to endowing the bathers with enthralling faces he
would have done so, no doubt, but he preferred to
leave them in an early stage of art. Another sea-
scape by Tucker is less pleasing. “ Autumn,” by
A. Boyd, is an impression. It might be the com-
mencement of a good, bad, or indifferent picture,
it may be praised by cranks, it can’t be taken
seriously by the public. These remarks apply to
two alleged portraits, or studies of human faces,
signed Helen A. Peters. Millais, or a competent
signboard-writer, might have painted them as far
as they go, for they have stopped short at the point
where preliminary proceedings terminate and artis-
tic effort begins. And so it is with several specimens
of Young Victorian landscape work hanging up for
sale. The trees are smudges, the skies are daubs,
the colors are not more final than the first coat of
drab slapped upon a summer-house which is going
to be green day after to-morrow. David Davies
scores with his “Breezes and Breakers,” as regards
the reflected light on a moving water. But the
sky is flat and painty and the distance that lends
enchantment to the view has not been arrived at.
A portrait of Professor Tucker’s little daughter, by
E. P. Fox, is a pretty work, although not to be
compared, for strength, truth, and carefulness of
execution, with Longstaff’s picture of his wife.
This is a soulful lesson in unaffected art, before
which the rising generation of Victorian painters—
whose work, for the most part, shows more talent;
than modesty—should doff its Alpine hat.
Cutting from Sydney Evening News Aus-
tralian story :
He dismounted to get the water-bag—perhaps all was
not lost yet. Then there came a rustling in the grass ; he
knew well what it was for all he could not see. He could
hear well enough the barking of the kangaroos as tli v
flew past.


GOOD Boots.
Callaghan & Son,
393 Georsre-st., Sydney
After the Ball
drops J the gun fires
If
&
zS) i—
«ir i
i
>3. 1
lisssE:
try n
Old Dominion
Cigarettes,
They soothe the brain.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
hvcEVH “Trilby.”
Her Majesty's “ The Sunny South.”
Rotal “The Derbv Winner.”
Criterion. Revivals.
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Redfkrn Fitzgeralds' Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's . Potter-Bellew Season.
Roval “ The Silver King.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall English Concert Co.
The Rev. Chas. Clark, who has filled
Centenary Hall all the past week, is still
undoubtedly what he was before—the greatest of
living lecturers. The Rev. Charles is growing
old, but he looks almost as young as he did many
years ago; his wonderful voice rings out as strongly
as ever, and his elocutionary powers have in no
way diminished. In this respect he is an anom-
aly in the clerical profession, for the elocution of
the average parson is awful, and if he went mad
and bit the congregation at random he could
hardlv fail to take a piece out of a better speaker
than himself. The Rev. Clark’s greatest successes
up-to-date have been his lectures on Dickens. He
apparently knows the great .novelist by heart,
and also the inmost soul of his characters.
His sketch of Squeers, and the impassioned
manner in which he made a pint of milk
go round eight boys, mostly orphans, is a piece
of acting which Dot Boucicault might be proud of,
and his other characters are equally effective. The
number of different persons which this lone parson
contrives to be in the course of one evening, with-
out scenery or props, and with no costume save
his own orthodox black “clobber,” is a striking
proof of versatility—especially when it is remem-
bered that the average reverend never manages to
be anybody but himself, and generally does that
very badly. . And when he gets on to description,
his word-painting is wonderfully rich and pictur-
esque ; he either knows all his subjects to perfec-
tion or has the art of seeming to do so, which is
much the same thing after all. The Rev. Clark’s
series covers four more lectures. To-night (Thurs-
day) he holds forth on “Thackeray”; Friday
on “St. Paul’s”; while Saturday and Monday
are devoted more or less to Dickens.
* * * *
“The Wages of Sin,” which is doing a
one-week season at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), is a
production which, on the whole, Reserves better
luck than it has had up to date. There is a lot of
large moral thrill in it; it tends to show that the
wages of sin are paid regularly; and the steady
decadence of Alfred Boothman' until he becomes
an unshaven ghoul hiding in a cellar is a serious
warning to all young men. Boothman at the
beginning is a gaudy clerk with a white hat, and a
blue waistcoat, and brown boots, and a black soul.
When the girl he has betrayed returns with her
hair hanging down her back he persuades her to
lay her sin on the curate, which is Alfred Woods ;
whereupon the curate's best girl marries Booth-
man, and he drinks all her money, and stoushes
her in the eye beside her dying child, who is
pegging-out in something like a bath in an attic.
Then the wife goes thieving to obtain victuals for
the infant and gets into gaol, and Boothman
stoushes her again in a cellar, and her life
is one large blue bruise from beginning to
end. Boothman is decidedly effective as the
ruffian in the cellar, where his bleared eye
looks like a lantern shining on a wreck;
and Woods makes the parson nearly as
respectable as anybody in the orthodox
long-tail coat can be. The stage parson
is never an individual to be taken seriously.
About the best features of the show, how-
ever, are Miss Austen Eliot as a widow
who is named Bloggs (and looks it), and Mrs.
Harry Marshall as daughter Juliana. There is
much wild humor in Widow Bloggs and her
daughter Juliana, and they serve to light up the
gloom of the drama considerably. Miss Edith
Barrow, as an airy creature with two large black
eyes, assists in the same good work. As for the
heroine, she lives her bruised life in the attics and
cellars, and is much stoushed, and run in, and
dragged out again, and burn pied hard on various
floors, and all Miss Wilde’s abilities can’t make
her anything better than the tearful wreck she is.
A weak feature of this heroine is that she is alwavs
telling her dissipated husband that she won’t let
him do something, whereupon he hits her in a
fresh place and does the thing without much diffi-
culty. Most of the male part of the show, barring
Woods and Boothman, badly wants a large quan-
tity of something heavy dropped on it frequentlv
from a great height—sav 1376 feet,
♦ * ~ * •
Geo. Darrell opens at Her Majesty's on
Saturday with the well - remembered “Sunnv
South:”
•* * * *
Brough and Boucicault have arrived at the
scrapv-end of their season, and are filling in the
last days of the partnership with a series of
revivals. Oscar Wilde’s * Ideal Husband " occu-
pied three nights. The eerie “Mps. Ebbsmith”
came next on the list, and the cold winds of
despair whistled through the old dry bones of the
sex-problem once more, and the psychological
whatsisname wandered forth to commune with
the soulful and desolate something or other about
that something else which never seems to get anv
better defined. Next week is to be filled in with
brief spells of “The Passport,” “The Idler,”
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.” “The Magis-
trate ” and “ The Amazons,” and after that
Dion Boucicault passes over the Australian
horizon for an indefinite pieriod. Meanwhile,
the solemn fact must be acknowledged that the
B. and B. farewell season is planning out none too
well Sydney is suffering just now with a violent
Tendency towards melodrama, and, considering'
how badly high-class comedy is supported at pre-
sent, The Bulletin suggests that it would be a
tender and appropriate piece of irony if the Cri-
terion season ended with one night of “ His
Natural Life " —the goriest wrsion. By potting
on Titheradge as Gabbett, and Ward as Troke,
and Mrs. Brough as the thin convict, the firm
might unobtrusively express its opinion of the
average Sydney audience, and insult it in a quiet
way which it would probably not fully drop to till
a week or more after the eo. had departed.
** * *
A testimonial to Dot Boucicault is under
way, and an influential committee has the matter
in hand. No canvass is to be made for subscrip-
tions, but those who have a cash reverence for the
brilliant actor and unrivalled dramatic tutor are
invited to send their bullion to Mr. A. Hoffnung
(of Hoffnung & Co.) treasurer to the fund. Also,
as the time available is short, like Dot himself,
they are invited to send it at once.
** * *
The garish magnificence of ‘ ‘ The Derby
Winner ” at Sydney Royal hasn’t faded yet,
and Miss Watson’s historic swear stands up pic-
turesquely in the drama like a lone curse in the
middle of the Old Man Plain. A further inspec-
tion of Bland Holt's piece has made The Bulletin
feel better towards Miss W. than it did last week.
Her solitary curse grows on one, in a manner of
speaking, or at least it did until the management
took it out of the show, and thereby re-
moved a really bright and effective remark.
It was a short, crisp, and effective “damn,”
and when it was interpolated by a penitent
woman weeping on her knees in the centre of a
gaudy drawing-room there was a suddenness about
it which added interest to an otherwise not unusual
observation. The adventuress, taking her all
round, is hard and masculine, and addicted to
warming at the fire portions of herself which her
sex doesn’t generally treat in that fashion, also to
striking attitudes which exhibit the soles of her
shoes to the audience, and she doesn’t look at all
the fascinating creature she is alleged to be. But,
for the sake of that one eloquent swear, a good
deal might be excused—if the management hadn’t
taken it out.
** * *
“ Trilby ” hasn’t broken out into any new
developments since last report. The Laird’s Scotch
accent remains as before —continual practice seems
wholly wasted on the Laird, and Svengali dies in
evening-dress, upside-down, as he did aforetime.
** * *
The Rickards show at Sydney Tivoli is
well and strong, and Fitzgeralds’ Circus still pros-
pers. Also, the gruesome Kennedy returns to fill
his wretched “subject” with candle-grease in the
stomach, at the Protestant Hall, for another
season, which is guaranteed to be the very last.
Then the brassy showman departs, it is alleged,
for N’York, which tends to demonstrate how un-
deserved misfortune may fall on any city when
it is least expected.
Apropos to the reappearance of Mrs.
Potter and Bellew, at Melbourne Princess’s, The
Bclletix must mention, with regret, that W.
Shakespeare's comedy, “ As You Like It,” is more
palpably ridiculous than of yore. It lost its last
hold upon credulity when the modern virgin took
to cycling. No fellow can imagine himself unable
to recognise his best girl as his best girl in the
event of her adopting “ rational ” dress. If
Orlando becomes suddenly enamored of Rosalind
at a ball he isn't to be persuaded that she is a
strange young man when he meets her next week,
in knickers and gaiters, falling off a bike. Rosa-
lind’s deception of the love sick wrestler is much
too thin for these times, and the same remark
applies to Touchstone’s philosophical jokes,
whieh wouldn’t be tolerated from a nineteenth-
century circus-clown. Even a banished duke
would object to such hollow mockeries of
humor. “ As You Like It ” is a famous
piece of literature, profusely praised and
freely quoted, also irreproachable in sentiment,
but it grows more absurdly unconvincing every
year. As a poetical farce, brightened by fancy
costumes and first-class woodland scenery, the
Bard s masterpiece seems a dreary entertainment
compared with “The Amazons.” This criticism
is both Gothic and up-to-date.
* » * a
The “As You Like It ” show discloses no
difference in Mrs. Potter and Bellew. The lady’s
personality remains always fascinating, and her
style generally theatrical, as before. Perhaps her
bursts of tender naturalism are rather more fre-
quent, and her voice rounder. Mrs. Potter still
persists in talking English with a foreign peculi-
arity, whilst her eye speaks the universal lan-
guage of the soul with liquid eloquence. But
from the face downwards this Rosalind is
altogether eclipsed by the memory of Mias
Essie Jenyns, her assumption of male attire
suggesting rather a North American Indian
or Robinson Crusoe, just according to how she
happens to strike one at first. Kyrle Bellew has
preserved all the previous effectiveness of his
clean-cut oountenance and expressive legs. More-
over, he treats Shakespeare’s wordy lines with
reverent discretion. So do most of the other
people, for that matter. Scot Inglis, as Jaques,
is excellent, in a heavy way ; Geo. Ireland, J. F.
Cathcart, Edwin Kelly, and Cyril Keightley fill
their places ; Elton tries hard to make Touchstone
endurable; and Miss Polly Emery is a riotous,
lively Audrey. Two or three members of the
company range from moderate to feeble, also the
singing is far below average form, and quite un-
worthy of the staging. The arrangement, at time
of writing, was to carry “As You Like It ” over
a second week—sad to say.
#* * *
“ Silver King,” at the Royal, progresses
favorably with two important changes in the cast,
Scot Inglis and Elton having been called away by
another engagement. King Hedlev, the successor
to Inglis, plays the name-part in a plain, straight-
forward maimer, which is sometimes the best
manner possible and sometimes not. Hedley is
a disappointing actor, inasmuch as he shows all
the symptoms of intending to let himself go pre-
sently, but doesn’t fulfill the promise when the
time comes. Nevertheless his moderation in all
things and thorough knowledge of business make
him respected. Stirling Whyte has succeeded
Elton, as Jaikes, to a considerable extent, although
there is room for him to succeed some more.
Otherwise “ Silver King ” is unchanged, and the
united efforts of the eo. and the scene-painter
deserve the same praise as usual.
** * *
The Frantz Family acrobats, who duly
appeared at Melb. Opera House last Thursday,
are individually and collectively superior to any
other congregation of muscular Christians ever seen
in this country, not even excepting the Craggs.
The Craggs were perfect in their work, the
Frantz Family, a little less neat, perform more
feats at a faster pace. Also, three of them
are full-grown women, in full-length skirts and
bodices cut low, and the spectacle of these
smiling amazons turning somersaults, and deal-
ing with one another as though they were
sacks of coal, is gorgeous in the extreme. The
Samson of the Family is a fair-haired matron who
holds her liege lord above her head with one of her
dear little hands, and seems equal to shifting a
steam-roller with one playful nudge of her dim-
pled elbow. The adjectives of ordinary advertise-
ment fail to exaggerate the success of Rickards's
latest importation from ’Ome. Will Crackles
takes the position of chief luminary in the new
comet’s taiL
** * *
Mdlle Trebelli gave her third and last
concert at Melb. Town Hall on Saturday, by
which time the merits of that admirable artist had
become sufficiently notorious to draw a large
audience. This week the English Concert Com-
pany starts a season of six concerts in the same
half.
Pretty Mrs. Potter and Beautiful Bellew
Are once again on view.
Their tricky airs and graces,
4nd interesting faces,
Seem quite as good as new.
Welcome ! Potter and Bellew.
Many years of absence, or, certainly, a few
(Good gracious ! how they flew !),
Have touched the classic features
Of those ever-blooming creatures
Refreshingly as dew
Fell on buttercups that grew.
Prettv Mrs. Potter and Beautiful Bellew
Tis a pleasure to review.
Six intervening summers,
Since last we saw those mummers,
Have faded out of view ;
The old time is the new,
And vain appears our weeping
For some dear ones who are sleeping
’Neath the shadow of the yew.
Buried objects of affection
Owe a seeming resurrection
To Potter and Bellew.
And the cud of false reflection
We can chew.
At Poverty Point.
Spagnoletti: “In the Melb. Doll Show, the actresses
all dressed their dolls themselves, or got a tip-top modiste
to do it. About two out of every three actresses cannot
sew a bit, but the third makes amends by assuring an
interviewer that she does all the mending for her hus-
band’s family of nine, by the first wife.”
The words of “ Ben Bolt.” English as they seem, were
written by an American, Thomas Dunn English, who, in
’94, was still living in a town in New Jersey. In the
summer of that year, when “Trilby” was all the vogue,
Mr. English was dined by the Lotos Club in New York,
and he then gave his hosts a gossipy little history of
“ Ben Bolt,” written more than half -a -century before.
The air to which it is sung is the composition of an Eng-
lishman. Mr. English, if alive, is now in his 77th year.
People who rave over the possibilities of Boucicault as
Little Billee forget that the gifted and agile “ Dot ” is
rather bow-legged and not at all feminine-looking. The
ideal Billee would need to be what women call “ a duck of
a boy ” —fragile, delicate and namby. Boucicault is more
a broth of a bhoy.
After singing a song at Melbourne Town Hall, the other
week, nervous Miss Nagel went down into the artists'
room and wept profusely. Sometimes she is half-afraid to
give utterance to “ Ben Bolt ” behind the scenes.
Fax shows his photos, because people think that beak
genuine.
Any number of ambitious diving professors are anxious
to try their luck in Peart's fatal tank. The apparent im-
possibility of putting any new diver to the test, without
letting him rush into grave danger, is the point to be con-
sidered. Peart came to the Fitzgeralds with a reputa-
tion. He had performed his feat thousands of times, and
was so reliable that they would have insured his life for
£lOOO, at a very small advance on the ordinary premium.
The musical-comedy season at Melb. Princess's was
played to a finish with “In Town,” instead of an experi-
mental performance of “ A Gaiety Girt,” as had been
threatened.
The stage girl-boy is bom, not made. Florence Young
was not bom to wear Lord Clanside's pants, or her limbs
would have been longer and less substantial at the butt
end.
Extract from Yankee interview with Mrs. Potter : At
last the dawn broke, and the most beautiful city in the
world, my dearly-loved Sydney, in New South" Wales.
Australia, fell at my feet, encouraged me. and gave me
hope. If I was what they told me then, what should Ibe
in a few years more ?"
The glaringly inartistic point in Fax's artistic death of
,vengali is the length of time he is left extended on his
table—obviously for spectators to gloat over—while the
res \ t^ le ****» after watching him die, pretend to be
busied with Trilby. This affectation of don' t-care-a-damn
is far too thin in the circs. And the effect could be
secured just as well by giving Svengali the stage to him-
self to die over, and bringing Mme. Yinaid, or Mtnebodv
on to discover him when it was judged the audience had
had enough gloat,
Harold Dominic Kyrle Bellew is son erf the Rev J C. M
Bellew, the most eloquent fashionable Anglican preacher
of ere he verted to Rome, after which he became
Charles Clarks model, as the unrivalled elocutionist,
bhut your eyes and you may often fancy Clark's tones
proceed from the silver tongue of lfirking for ever
in the ear-porches of all who ever heard him. 'He had a
very fine presence, with a Mirabeau-like mass at spreading
Italy mourns Rossi, one erf the noble quartette, erf which
the others were Riston, Salvini. and Majeroni. brother of
our Eduardo, who ranked next in the scale, all being more
or less pupps of a great actor named Modena Salvini as
he admits m his autobiography, was madly in love with
Riston, and this might account for Rossi being substi-
tuted for him in her company, when she gave her hvnd
if not her heart, to the Marquis del Grillo.
Gubernatorial recognition is now bestowed on Mrs.
Porter, the nrst night being under Lady Brassey's patron-
Goatcher painted the scenery for Mrs. Potters first
amateur performance, in America.
„ i l B ’P wne - “ latest. playing a maid’s par: in
w London Vaudeville. Since -Cheer
By vs Cheer was taken off she has been “ resting."
That true humorist. Fred Kaye, is with Arthur R A-r-
-at tne Prince of Wales's, London.
I: cost the danse use Alice Lethbridge (Mrs. K. J
Turner) £2d to send a telegram and postcard. The first
to ran—Your infamous intimacy
I** ™ y husband shall cease. I have contended long
vf' your woman mav expect me
down, and I promise you a nice scene at the thea're I
have stood itlong enough ” kc.. YVh O remember
Alice s anger when the shapely Mari- Weir danced
sks.*** whb taSiSs:
The broken pitcher—Peart.
< eril Ward “ I consider I was a very raw actor when
1 firs: came out to Australia. In fact. I'm net sure that 1
could act at all. Boucicault taught me pretty well all i
know. If it hadn’t been for him I think I should hav«
given up the stage and turned to something else Bouri
cault would make even an amateur realise that he
something to learn.”
Crackles, the new eccentric dancer consigned fcn
Rickards, suffers from the stale imbecilitv of his Spatter”
in the first place, and from coming after Coleman in
the second. When the popular Scarecrow humorist
returned to Melbourne, comparisons were avoided hv
despatching Crackles to Adelaide with the Rickanfl
travelling eo. As a dancer, pure and simple, the nei
man is more various than Coleman.
Kennedy is said to have been a boxer ere he detrend
a ted into a mesmerist. e ” ener ' j
Melb. managers sensibly change “first night” into th»
middle of the week. Thus Westmacott made Wedn«rtl!
the first night of “ Silver King,” and Rickards chan™,
programmes every Thursday. Saturday can take care of
iteelf. UI
Little Sampson, the Melbourne journalist who glares
humanity through an eyeglass, is travelling round with
his lecture on South Africa and doing prettv well Befn
starting the campaign Sampson tried his lecture'late one
night, on a friendly audience at Melb. Athenaeum Hall
when he appeared to be only half-trained for the inh
Forty hours later he had the lines by heart and fired them
off at the Geelong public with typical Jewish assurance
The original Sampson had a fancy for knocking the Phili.'
tines with a jawbone.
Three shows in Adelaide on one night—Sat 23rd ult i
Rickards at the Royal : amateur “Trial by Jury” at th
Bijou ; and a very good concert by Heinecke’s orchestra
at the Town Hail. The Sleepy City didn’t know where h
were.
Inigo Tyrrell, the blood-curdling author-actor got hi»
acquittal on the charge of manslaughter under flvW
colors at Melb. sessions. Judge and jury agreed that
Tyrrell was provoked by deceased beyond endurance and
that death ensued through the latter striking his head
against a bed-post when falling.
Veteran Jimmy Cathcart, who appears in the Potter
Blew production of “ As You Like It,” has a well-seasoned
acquaintance with the Bard’s comedy. Fortv-five and
a-half vears ago (30th Jan., 1851) J. F. Cathca'rt’s name
figured on the satin programme of a performance given at
w indsor Castle by command of V.R. He plaved Sylvius
on that occasion The cast included the Charles Keans
(Mr A Mrs-X Alfred Keeley, Jack Ryder, Vining
Addison, and Miss X ivash—all of whom are very dead to-
day. The only survivors, so far as Jimmy knows are
Mrs. Keeley, Cariotta Leclerq, and himself Mrs. k’still
pops up in the character of a nonagenarian at theatrical
functions. Cariotta Leclerq is a leading “ old woman" in
London, and our own Cathcart may be set down as a
grand old man. He has done more' than The Bclleiw
can hope to achieve. If this beastly red-covered journal
were ever to appear at Windsor Castle by Royal command
it wouldn’t live 45 years afterwards.
When “ Charley’s Aunt” was first produced in London
three years ago, W. S. Penley had arranged to start for
Australia m six weeks if the piece didn’t catch on. Dur-
ing the last Lenten season it was drawing £2OO a night.
Dear Bulletin,— Re superstition among “ circus hands ”
I remember Dan Fitzgerald saying, when giving an order
to the printers for circus-posters : “ And don’t give me
any ‘ yellow ’ paper among the assorted colors, for it’s a
sure sign of a bad season.” —Chasm.
Letter received the other dav by a well-known Sydney
theatrical-manager “ Dear Mr. , I write to you this
note to know if you will give me a chance to show you
my capabilities as an actor at your theatre. If vou will
not think me a madman, I venture to say that I am
Mozart and Shakespeare, and if you are too incredulous
to believe it, please open the Bible and see where the
seventh seal is opened, and you will see just what is hap-
pening in the world now. It is quite likely that I will
make just as great a name as an actor as Ihave done in
poetry and music. Dear Mr. , you were one day
standing at Nicholson’s door talking to Mr. , and I
was standing just a few yards away from you, and a person
ran his bicycle up against my leg. I sav this so as you
will have an idea of who I am. Dear Mr. , I hope that
you will not think that this paper is my choice for to
write to you upon ; any port in a storm. I am, dear Sir,
yours truly,
Glen and Co., Melb., have brought out a second edition
of Coghlan and Turner’s taking song, “ The Gateway.”
The same coflaborateurs expect to make a hit presently
with another and a lighter ballad which will have an odour
of gum-tree and wattle-blossom in its title.
The recent arrest of Henry Butler, in
Melbourne, on various charges, recalls to memory
a rather famous murder of 16 years ago.
Butler, who has received sentences aggregating
40 years since 1860, is commonly alleged to have
gone a-burgling in the house of one Dewar in
Cumberland-street, Dunedin, and to have but-
chered the entire family with an axe, and then set
the premises on fire. The legend further has it
that Mrs. Dewar, when a romantic school-girl in
a Northern town, had become secretly engaged to
Butler, then a young and good-looking man, but
he got into gaol, and when he came out his
fiancee was married and gone, and thereupon (so
went the police theory) he pursued her with the
axe aforementioned and demolished her and her
family by way of vengeance. The evidence was
strong, but Butler conducted his own defence with
remarkable skill J and 12 jurymen, all with their
hair parted in the middle, gave him the benefit of
the doubt. Butler had previously challenged
every juryman whose hair wasn't parted in the
middle, and when the trial was over he candidly
explained his reasons. “It is safest,” he said,
“to get a jury of weak-minded men. Every man
who parts his hair in the middle is more or less
weak-minded.” A few days later he was tried
again—rhis time for burgling the house of a lawyer
with firearms, and other aggravating circum-
stances. The second jury didn’t wear its hair
sepiarated in the middle, and the result was a
sentence of IS years. Butler, by the way, is a
State-made criminal. Before he was 12 he was
arrested for ragronc* and received a stiff sentence.
Shortly after Ins release he was again arrested on
the same charge, and sent up for a longer term.
When this latter term had been served the youth
knew as much as the toughs with whom he had
associated in gaol could teach him, and on his
release he began a career of crime that has made
two provinces sweat gold.


T
IME IS MONEY !
“YOST”
“DENSMORE”
'‘CALIGRAPH”
BOSS
MACHINES OF THEIIt
CLASS.
\
Unit 2d Typewriter 8s Supplies Co. of London
and New York,
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; Temple Court, MELBOURNE;
Barrack-st., PERTH ; Sub-agencies—Adelaide & Brisbane.
FREE TRIAL. FREE TUITION.
Write for Catalogues and particulars.
MILES T. CARROLL &. CO.,
Minina and Finance Brokers , Valuators. &c.,
PRACTICAL & RELIABLE FINANCIAL ADVISERS
—IN-
STOCK, SHARES, OR REAL ESTATE.
Trust Money advantageously Invested. Best
Interest and Security obtained.
Experts report on Mines throughout Australia.
JO Quecn-st., Melbourne. [Telephone 1603.
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH a*4 EftHPPING.
BALATA
ELTIN
Is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE to
Wm.. A-dams & Compy, f
Oil Merchants »V Eugluecrs' Furnishers,
71 Clarence-st,, Sydney; 521.628 Collins-at., Melbq,crnh
The Wild-Cat Column.
Clifton Subscriber : (1) Can’t get any reliable
Information as to how things are turning out, but they
look very bad. (2) The Illawarra Mutual Building Society
looks perfectly sound and prosperous. There is nothing
on the face of the balance-sheet to create the slightest
suspicion.
Among the claims against the City of Melbourne
Bank is one of £31,720 by the Commissioners of Melbourne
Savings Bank. In 1891 the Savings Bank made one of its
big disastrous loans to Wallachand Fink, when it advanced
£40,000 on mortgage at per cent. Apparently, how-
ever, the Commissioners felt none too certain about the
security, so it was stipulated that the City of Melbourne
Bank should guarantee payment of the interest in per-
petuity. Then Wallach and Fink went down in the
financial storm. The security depreciated to £25,000, or
£16,000 less than the loan and arrears of interest, and the
guaranteeing bank burst. So the Commissioners claim
from the liquidators of the C.O.M. £31,720 as being the
capitalised value of 7£ per cent, interest on £16,000 from
now to the end of time ; and the Supreme Court has gone
into a cool spot to think it over. The question naturally
arises whether it wouldn’t be much simpler for the
C.O.M. Bank to pay the Savings Bank the £16,000
capital it has lost rather than leave the £16,000
outstanding and pay £31,720 interest on it, but
apparently this isn’t in the bill. The Colonial Mutual
Insurance Society has an exactly similar case on
hand. It lent £3500 on land now* worth only £922,
and the interest was guaranteed by the Mercan-
tile Finance Trustees and Agency Co. It also lent
£4695 on land now worth only £3753, with the same
guarantee as regards the interest. Then the se-
curity and the borrowers and the guaranteeing co. all
came to grief together ; and the Colonial Mutual sues the
liquidators of the Mercantile Finance, &c. co. for
authority to rank as a creditor for £6804, the capitalised
value of future interest, as well as for £2165 interest in
arrears. The law is thinking hard over this also, and the
whole affair is a fine sample of how they financed in the
Melbourne boom time. Obviously the Bent and Fink
variety of borrowers were viewed with some suspicion,
and apparently the securities were also viewed with some
suspicion else the guarantee wouldn’t have been sug-
gested, and if the banks which did that kind of business
weren’t viewed with suspicion they certainly should have
been. So the three suspicions got together and guaran-
teed each other, and all was supposed to be well.
* * * *
One good feature about the N.S.W. Closer
Settlement Bill is that the money to pay for lands
acquired for settlement is to be borrowed locally. As
nothing is done in this Great Loan Land without borrow-
ing it is at least satisfactory that the borrowing is to be
done in the least disastrous fashion possible. But a much
better device would be simply to enact that the seller
shall be paid with 3 per cent, stock issued at the price
then current in the local market, the stock to have a cur-
rency of, say, 20 years, and thereafter to be redeemable
solely at the option of the Government. There would be
no hardship to the seller of land ; he would get his
securities, not at their nominal value but at the value
they would fetch in the market, so that they would be
equivalent to cash. And this system would save the
State borrowing money before it was wanted and paying
interest on it while it lay idle, and also save the loss that
arises through borrowing £300,000 to pay for a £227,000
purchase and leaving the balance unproductive, possibly
for a year or more. Further, it would save expenses and
commissions, which all amount to something.
* » * *
That cheeky and aggressive concern, the British
Committee of Foreign Bond-holders, attempts again to
blackmail the Maoriland Government into guaranteeing
the New Plymouth Harbor Board debentures by the
threat that it will conspire to wreck any future M.L.
loans if something isn’t done. Said Board, in the old
insane days, floated a big loan in London at the awful rate
of 6 per cent. Despite many difficulties, it has paid up
everything save 6s. per cent., which is a month or two in
arrear and will be liquidated shortly ; and despite this
temporary inconvenience the £lOO bonds are saleable at
£lO5, so the holders are doing remarkably well. Yet the
unspeakable Bull isn’t satisfied, and wants a State guar-
antee or something of the kind, which wasn’t in the bond,
in addition to his 6 per cent., and talks of raising sheol if
he doesn’t get it.
* * * *
Lambton seems to be the champion fool munici-
pality of N.S.W. In 1890 it was decided to borrow £7OOO
for electric-lighting purposes, and the money was raised
from the Commercial Bank of Australia at 7 per cent,.,
repayable on demand. As the total income of the muni-
cipality from all sources was only about £lBOO a year, and
the expenses, including interest, were over £2200, of
course it was quite obvious that the money couldn’t be
paid on demand, and that when the demand came the
miserable township would crumple up. In order to avoid
being crumpled it has now been fighting the case for two
years in the law courts on a technical point. If it loses
in the end the debt and the 7 per cent, and the law-costs
will about eat up Lambton.
* * * *
One evidence in favor of the Maoriland State
Loan Department is that, out of the £700,000 which it
has already advanced at 5 per cent., about £500,000 went
to pay off old mortgages at rates varying from 7 to 15
per cent. Consequently, on this half-million alone, the
saving to the borrowers should be somewhere about
£12,000 a year. And meanwhile Robert Stout, K.C.M.G.
(whose wife publicly believes in the importation of China-
men) condemns the proposed anti-usury legislation of the
Seddon Government on the ground that all attempts at
legal interference with the rate of interest are bound to
be a failure. The M.L. State Loan Department certainly
looks like a species of legal interference.
There are now only five N.S. Wales fire and
marine insurance companies surviving; eight years ago
there were eleven. And there are more than 40 foreign
offices (i.e., offices which do not belong to Australia,
Maoriland, or Tasmania) doing business in the province,
among them English, Scotch, German, Austrian, Chinese,
and others. According to the last available returns, at
Dec., ’94, Sydney and suburbs were insured for about
£60,000,000, and of this the local offices did only
£24,000,000, or just two-fifths. In the same eight years
the Vic. offices have diminished from nine to seven ; the
South Australian from four to one ; and the Maoriland
from seven to five. These reflections are aroused by the
recent arrival of another British office in N.S.W. When
is the N.S.W. Protectionist party going to move all it is
worth for a heavy tax on absentee fire-insurance offices ?
There is no local industry which is more in want
of Protection than the fire-insurance business, and if
such a move can’t be made now, it certainly should
be one of the first things to be attended to when
Federation comes along. Almost every other kind
of foreign competition has been taxed at one time or
other, but the foreign insurance co. has always gone free,
even in Maoriland, which taxes the extraneous bagman
£5O per annum. The only difference that has been made
so far is that when the N.S.W. insurance co. puts its
money into Government securities it has to pay income-
tax on the interest, while the foreign one doesn’t.
* » * *
Chaffey Bros.’ workmen at Mildura haven’t
been paid regularly since 1891, and some of the arrears of
wages extend four years back. Even the customs duty
on the pumping-plant is unpaid ; the ’Murkan speculators
were allowed to erect the plant in bond and owe the duty,
and it is owing to this day.
Tf Loo iiiof Boon diaonvorod that Rem l lark. the
Chaffey Bros.’ S.A. irrigation settlement, was secretly
mortgaged, in 1891, for £lOO,OOO, to the British debenture-
holders. The mortgage wasn’t registered, and was kept
so dark that its existence has just been discovered ; and
this, coming on top of the other liabilities, makes things
look worse than ever for the local creditors. The Chaf-
fey 8 ’ capacity for pawning and borrowing seems to have
been almost unlimited.
* * * *
The curse of muddlement and mismanagement
seems still to hang over Mildura. When the Chaffey co.
exploded, the Vic. Government guaranteed an advance of
£3500 to keep the settlement afloat pending more definite
arrangements, and the trustees thereupon borrowed the
money from a bank at 6£ per cent., making the interest
£227 10s. per annum. The State could have got the
money at 3£ per cent, and lent it direct, and its liability
would have been no greater than it is, while the chances
of repayment would have been a lot better. The per
cent, curse has been on Mildura from its first inception.
On the Vic. railways <£20,000 a year is now
sa,ved, as compared with the Speight era, by the use of
Gippsland coal in place of Newcastle ; £28,000 a year is
saved on lubricants, principally by the use of mineral
instead of vegetable oils ; and another economy of £2OOO
a year is being effected by using fire-kindlers to light the
engine fires instead of wood as heretofore. Economy is
down to a tolerably fine point in the Victorian Govt,
departments nowadays.
* » * *
The Mercantile Bank liquidator reports that
the losses already written off are £781,000, and out of the
£647,000 still due to the bank by debtors about £530,000
will probably prove hopeless. Under these conditions it
will probably take a hard struggle to raise the dividend to
10s. in the £.
» « » »
Liquidator Ducker, who now speaks with re-
spect of the men he used to snort at, was asked to
explain to Mercantile Bank shareholders why some of
them should be beggared by paying calls, whereas others,
who haven’t paid their calls, are wallowing in luxury?
The question was directed, firstly, at certificated boom-
sters, and secondly, at the courts of justice which relieved
them from their debts. Ducker’s answer was a petulant
remark that he didn’t administer laws, or something to
the same effect. The question remains for such as
Matthew Davies and Chief Justice Madden to answer.
Can his Honor show good reason for the present apparent
opulence of the relieved boomsters in the face of other
people’s compulsory cashing up ? There is only a legal
reason for the exasperating prosperity of Smellbourne’s
whitewashed Fat Men. One of these days a crazy share-
holder will arm himself with a meat-axe and lay a few
lawyers out.
• * * *
Cabled that the S.A. Company, an aggregation
of English absentees, has paid a div. of £1 16s. per share,
the profit for the year being £24,000. This is the co.
founded by Geo. Fife Angas, the pious philanthropist, in
the interests of the poor emigrant, in order “to keep
out of the reach of those who are ever ready to take
the fruits of the labor, prudence and skill of the indivi-
duals whose future lot may be cast on the south shores of
Australia, and to let industry have its fair chance of ob-
taining reward.” Geo. Fife Angas, then a poor man, died
a millionaire, and the S.A. co. has the unenviable reputa-
tion of being a very bowelless institution indeed.
* * * *
An important point in winding-up law was
raised in Melb. the other day on a motion for final judg-
ment for calls due as a contributory on the “B ” list. It
was contended that the original holder of the shares, the
“ B” list man, could not be called on to pay until it was
shown that his transferree on the “A” list had first been
exhausted. There’s a good deal of legal confusion between
the liability of being placed on the lists of contributories,
and the individual liabilities of the “ A ” and “ B ” people
when “settled.” As the books appear to be silent on
this subject, and as the case is one which crops up every
day, an interesting decision is expected.
Newcastle strike is fizzling out, after having
caused a lot of loss 10 owners, port, and men. Appar-
ently the only people to profit by It are the South Coast
and Victorian colliers. The Bulli and Wollongong coal
output for May was 77,783 tons—the highest on record.
So far as Newcastle is concerned, the issue might have
been foreseen from the beginning.
* * * ♦
Q. Labor-leader Glassey’s piano has possibly
caused more noise than a piano ever caused before. A
BriBb. piano-firm sold this celebrated instrument on time-
payment, and the purchaser re-sold to Glassey for spot
cash before he had fully paid up his instalments. Then
the piano-firm sued Glassey for cash or piano, and Glassey
won, but lost on appeal to the Full Court, and has now to
return the instrument and pay all costs. The judgment
emphasises the principle that the time-payment purchaser
has no title till he has paid the last stiver.
• * • *
That noble vessel the Brightside, alias Emu,
sank the other day at anchor in Sydney harbor. People
who have had to cross the Heads on a rough morning in
the Emu will be delighted to hear that she is being raised.
* * * *
After all, it looks as if the fight between the
rival Manly ferry companies is to be maintained, the big
firm of J. and A. Brown having come to the rescue of the
Co-Operative Co., which will be bad news for the people
who, on the strength of the prospeeii e amalgamation,
snapped up Port Jackson shares—with a heavy liability
attached
• * * *
Not many Australian Judges would exhibit
either the inclination or the courage of Boucaut (S.A.)
the other day, when he advised a bank that was being
sued to come to a “settlement at once and save the
expenses,” because it was clearly in the wrong. It was a
big and strong bank, too. *
A red-hot N.S.W. bankrupt applied for his cer-
tificate the other day. He had first given a bill-of-sale
over all his assets, then contracted the debts as to which
he bankrupted, and then dishonored a few hundreds’
worth of p.n.’s, besides having been “bankrupt a few
years ago, when his estate didn’t pay any div.” And only
a suspension of 18 months ! Cheap at the price.
The French Government has instructed its Resi-
dent in Madagascar to refuse prospecting - licenses
for mining in the protectorate to all except French citi-
zens. Some Australians, it appears, had applied for
licenses, and accordingly warning to the above effect has
been sent to the Australian Governments.
The P. and O. Co. have in hand two vessels
specially-constructed for the Anglo-Australian live-cattle
trade.
* * * *
England is advancing rapidly to Protection.
The Government, in order to help the starving cattle-
raiser in an underhand way, is introducing a bill making
the slaughter of imported cattle compulsory at the port
of landing.
* * * *
The exact moment for a brainy and experienced
man to organise a “ Pure Australian Wine Co. Ltd.,” is—
now.
• ♦ * »
“ There ought shortly to be a big drop in the
price of platinum, as a rich seam of platiniferous lead
several miles long has been found in N.S.W., which assays
75 uer cent, platinum to the ton,” says Photooraphy.
Evidently some large-minded mining liar is at work on J.
Bull, and in any case, on above showing, would it not be
plumbiferous platinum rather than platiniferous lead ?
Anyhow, where is that wondrous seam 7
« * * *
A growl comes from Temora because the pro-
specting vote is not more liberally distributed in that
place : “ Red tape prevents the work already done being
measured because they are not down the proper depth.”
* • * •
Mr. W. J. Spencer has been appointed editor of
Australian Mining Standard.
« ♦ * *
Mt. Drysdale, N.S.W., has struck some more
rich rock, and the shares have moved upwards. One
mine, one boom, and this show has had it. There are too
many who bought at from £5OO to £750 a share waiting to
get out at a reasonable loss.
* * * *
Sydney D.T., in arguing that a State coal-mine
would further depress the wages of coal-hewers, chiefly
forgets the prominent fact that the State colliery would
not need to pay dividends out of the wages of its colliers.
* * * •
Australasia has at last got another mining boom
in gold, silver, and copper, with occasional spurts in
diamonds, platinum, and other metals and gems. None
can tell the stage of the boom —whether it is the begin-
ning, the middle, or near the end. All booms are born to
die suddenly—they never linger. Of one thing there is no
doubt —the boom is here. Another is that the public are
coming along like lambs to be slaughtered. Old silver
mines, abandoned when silver was nearly double its pre-
sent price, are resurrected under the influence of the new
sulphide-processes. In the absence of new gold-mines old
ones are being re-opened, ostensibly for work, but really
to work the public. Shares that this day next year will not
be worth a penny a dozen are now at a big premium. The
great mining tipster, after a long sleep and silence over
Bonanza Consols and 50 other now-liquidated mines reli-
giously tipped by him, has arisen in his might, shaken off
the filth of the old boom, and now in the new says, “ I
told you so,” tipping nearly everything on the market,
especially every new thing issued.
* * * *
Out of the 96720 z. gold alleged to be produced
at Coolgardie in April, the Great Boulder, Lake View, and
Ivanhoe mines—none of which are at Coolgardie—yielded
71340 z. A few other mines, none of which are at Cool-
gardie either, made up the balance. Coolgardie itself
now looks about as good a goldfield as Woolloomooloo.
* » * *
God has been good to Coolgardie country.
Born in Bayley’s Reward, nursed by the Plunderderry,
fostered by the Wealth of Expectations, endowed with
immortality by the Great Boulder, it is now supposed to
have received its crown of glory in a,rich find of telluride
of gold. Assayer Holroyd is the hero of the allegedly
extensive telluride discovery made in Block 45 at
Hannan’s. And several other leases are said to have since
found it. According to the wires every assayer now
seems to be looking out for telluride.
A few weeks ago the papers gave the public to
believe that there was a year’s supply of surface water in
the lakes at Hannan’s and elsewhere on the fields. There
were “ boating parties on the lakes,” which were covered
with game, etc., and now comes : “Kalgoorlie. Thursday.
—Owing to the recent hot weather the water on the sur-
face of Hannan’s lake has disappeared in a very short
time, but an immense quantity is stored in the bed of the
lake. The lake is like a big sponge full of water.” But
they take care not to say that the water when it gets into
that sponge has to be got out at great expense in digging
channels, sinking shafts, and pumping ; that it can only
be used as it is for crushing—for every other purpose it
has to be condensed, and, being densely salt, that is an
expensive necessity. The water-difficulty is the everlast-
ing curse of the Coolgardie fields.
* * * *
The Bulletin hears that two Roebourne (W.A.)
claims the Edith and Castle have been floated for
£140,000, an absurdly high sum, although the stone is
promising. The Yellow Aster and Golden King, on which
Calvert paid a deposit on his visit, have been hung in the
wind for some time, but Capt. Symons has reported
favorably on them, and they are likely to go off.
* * * *
Zeb Lane is stated to have once remarked to a
London man, to whom he had promised a good mine, and
who after the Boulder was floated went to him and reviled
him for not having kept his promise, “ Hold hard, I’ll
give you one worth perhaps three Boulders ! ” And he sold
him the Lady Loch.
* * * *
Mine-manager Klug, long of the B.H. Consols,
goes West—to take charge of the Victoria Cross.
* * * »
The battery-manager was having a slanging-
match with the boss of a small party, the members of
which had just cleaned up, for next-to-nothing a load, a.
crushing of stone that prospected something like 23dwt.
“ I tell you ! ” yelled the battery-man, “ this is as good a
mill as there is in Australia, and saves every weight. Ain’t
we got all the gold-savin’ appliances?” “Gold-savin’
appliances ! ” shrieked the other, “ gold-savin’ appliances !
Why, damn me ! there is more gold in the tailin’s than
there is in the stuff afore it goes through your infernal
mill ! ”
• * * •
Dear Bulletin, —You quote Glen Wills as the
field where the poorest gold is got. Four years ago 15oz.
retorted gold from Snake Valley, 26 miles from Bright,
realised i 2 Bs. 6d. per oz. —Veritas.
* * * *
South Star, Ballarat (Vic.), having proved its
lode at the 1010 ft. level, shares speedily moved to 53s. —a
big lift on the £1 ruling when The Bulletin first noted
the mine’s good prospects. New strike brings nine years’
stone in sight. Last week’s milling, 940 tons for 4980 z.
4dwt., shows how well the dirt is averaging.
* * * *
Coterie of ’cute Melbourne men are readying-up
a boom for Ararat, another of Vic.’s neglected old-timers.
♦ * * *
Koch’s Pioneer, a coming Bendigo crack, had
spelled for 15 years till it was re-worked in ’95. Shaft
then stood at 1365 ft. and the co. had barely got 50ft.
further before it struck the mass of spurs now breaking
over the 1450 ft. level—ssft. high, averaging 15ft. thick,
and opened up for 300 ft. This run has milled 2512 tons
for 17560 z., paying several divs. Koch’s P., bought in ’7l
for £75,000, and has called up £18,350 and paid £27,000
divs.
* * * *
Yic. Govt, geologist M'Kenzie estimates the
coal possessions of Vic. fields at 81,382,381 tons—Korum-
burra and Strzlecki district showing 26,814,824 tons ; Jum-
bunna and Outrun, 35,755,511 tons, and half-a-dozen
smaller localities contributing the balance. Value of out-
put to date, £381,216.
* * ♦ *
Vic. Mining on Private Property Act provides
that in the event of disputes between the owner and the
miner applying for a lease as to the amount of compensa-
tion for surface-damage, the matter is to be referred to
the Warden. The Chief Justice has just decided that,
although one section of the Act was doubtful on the
point, the intention of the Legislature was that these pro-
visions should apply to a miner working under a miner’s
right as well as to the applicant for a lease. The case was
from the Lilydale district, and is one of many recent
indications that mining is looking up again on the Wandin
and at the old Emerald diggings. The surface-damage
claims, often exorbitant, are the principal handicaps to
this otherwise promising fossicking field.
* * * *
Star of the East, Ballarat, again in luck’s way.
Cut 6ft. of payable stone in the 1500 ft. western orosseut.
The Star wanted this lift badly. Shares, which have
nearly touched 505., were begging at half-sov. some weeks
back.
• * * *
A strong syndicate testing the basalt plains east
of Rokewood (Vic.) for alluvial. Hopeful of picking up
the southern main trunk of the Ballarat leads.
* * * *
Windmill Hill, one of Bendigo’s boss yielders,
has a record. Five years’ developing turned out two
divs. in the early part of ’7O, when the gold suddenly
streaked off, and shilling “ heartbreakers ” had the
innings till ’94. Then pluck had a ldok in, the co. at the
1310 ft. cutting a big reef, and another 100 ft. landed it on
another massive formation —to date opened by 460 ft. in
length and with another 400 ft. yet to tackle. These
makes have milled 15,4100 z. from 19,254 loads, and div’d
£25,000 on the £42,500 called up. Windmill illustrates
reefer Lansell’s pertinacity. An original scripper, his
faith in the mine never wavered ; he snapped all the “ for-
feiteds ” that offered, carried the venture through its lean
years, and now owns 18,000 out of 82,000 shares to draw
urofits from. A man of grit.
The Frederick the Great at last means to thrill
its British owners, who have dumped over £20,000 into it,
not to mention the “ splosh” that went to the promoters.
Between the 580 ft. and 880 ft. levels now breaking a reef
proved 200 ft. high and 40ft. wide, gold well distributed,
and looks payable. Stone easily won, and, bashed by
60 head of stamps, about 3dwt. will meet ex’s.
» * * *
Victoria quartz, on the New Chum line, makes
Bendigo’s deep-level beauty trio. Raising soz. from
2554 ft. By the strike of the winze it is reckoned the reef
cap is 46ft. above the saddle, and a 10ft. thickness of stone
is being taken out without either wall visible. Co. has a
gorgeous prospect, and,- to feel its full strength, will sink
its shaft another lift and erect a new winding-plant. Vie.
scrip is well held, very little of it figuring on the market.
* * * *
Red, White and Blue, a Bendigo side-line mine,
has div’d £116,000 on £4500 capital. From this it is
argued the Bendigo Development Co. to test the side-
lines, which started shaft-sinking the other day, has
a good chance. Success of this venture would open up a
large area of likely country.
* * « «
For the five months Bendigo has put out
82,0000 z., beating the similar period of ’95 by 14,9000 z
Divs., £Bl,OOO ; calls, £59,000. Last year the calls lead by
nearly £6OOO. Aforesaid figures augur well for ’96’s clean-
up.
* * • *
Londonderry, 82 tons for 530 z. ! Gone are the
boom 3 and 4oz. yields of*,a couple of months ago.
And this is the show that comprehensive tipster urged
people to buy into !
* * * *
A Southern syndicate has had an expert at the
last collapsed goldfield spying out “ likely things,” and
consequently parties have their paddocks baited for jays.
Specimens were in strong demand for a week or two, but
the specialist was more expert than was expected, andhas
not taken the hook. Claims that were offered at £5
suddenly sprang up to £l5O, and two or three parties
helped each other to gild their little heaps by a generous
exchange of specimens to crown the tips. The expert
recognised the same specimen on three tips quite half-a-
mile apart.
* * * *
Ballarat as a mining centre isn’t a patch on
Bendigo for liveness. Directorate cliqueism, the slowness
of legal managers, and a general mystifying air of “don’t
know ” combine to sit heavily on the aforesaid field. For
these reasons the public doesn’t gamble in Ballarat stocks.
As to the legal managers, they are mostly mere dummies,
and never seem to know how their mines are jumping-
all the time the inside crowd and its Melb. tail have
cleaned the market on some good development. Also, at
Ballarat several “ boss” directors daily visit the principal
mines and browbeat the miners to get information. Thus
armed, it is easy to “ ring a scoop ” on shareholders
beyond the pale of early news.
* * * *
A dead-beat traveller in the vicinity of Tongu
West (Vic.) the other day picked up a rock to throw at his
dog, then changed his mind and put it in his pocket. It
had 2£oz. clean gold hanging to it. A thing like this
doesn’t always turn out for the best, though. A school-
mate of the present writer once found a handsome speci-
men on the road at Soldiers’ Hill, Ballarat, and up to date
that young man has wasted about seven years of,.his life
looking over stones for more nuggets without striking a
color.
* * * *
Vic. Amalgamated Miners are pulling the ropes
for a reform of the existing “ tribit” system, under which
the working miner is too often entirely at the mercy of
the fatted director and frequently finds himself utterly
“ out of it ” when he strikes good stone after a hard
struggle amongst bread-and-dripping stuff. Mines Foster
promises profusely. He is the most “ promising ” man
they have ever had in the Department.
* * * *
Over 53 p.c. of the gold won from Madame
Berry, Vic.’s alluvial world-beater, returned to sorippers.
Record to date : Yield, 386,8820 z. lOdwt, 12gr., value
£1,586,758 9s. 7d. ; divs., £848,700, or £47 3s. per share ;
wages, £429,595 18s. 6d. ; royalties, £128,342 6s. 4d. Still
another div. or two in the plant and tailings. By the
death of Madame, the laughing Peacock, legal manager,
drops £8 a week ; but be still has the two other Berry
“ toffs,” Madame Berry West and Berry Consols, in his
office.
» * * *
A man splitting a butt at Swift’s Creek, Vic.,
the other day cut into a very handsome little nugget
embedded near the root. A two days’ search failed to
unearth more than a color in the ground round about.
* * * *
A variant of the old story of the goose with the
nuggets in its crop. A farmer in Haddon-raad, BHlarat,
Vic., finding that his horse was walking lame, got off his
waggon, and, lifting the animal’s hoof, found a piece of
quartz with 2oz. gold attached embedded in the frog.
* * * *
Total Tas. mining dividends for May, <£14,960.
Among them, (gold) Tasmania Is. 6d., New Golden Gate
2s. ; (silver) Western 6d., Silver Queen Is. ; (tin) Mt.
Bischoff 7s. 6d. Total dividends from Ist Jan., £55,600.
* * * *
There are 38 Mount Lyell pups, and others art
contemplated: And there are so many Hercules pups
that the Tas. Mining Registrar has ukased against the
christening of any more aftebjhe parent mine.
* * » *
The late Joseph Clarke, of Melbourne, once
made an offer of £90,000 for Mt. Lyell (Tas.) mine, and
nearly got it at that price.
* * * •
From Melbourne : The Lamberts, N.S.W.’s iron
people, are to work the Blythe (Tas.) iron deposits.
Weekly shipments of 1000 tons are shortly to flow to
Sydney.
* * * *
Bull’s people hold the thickest "interest in a
majority of the Zeehan (Tas.) silver group.
* * * *
Lady Augusta, Eidsvold, Q., cleaned up 38 tons
for 2720 z. gold—7oz. 3dwts. per ton. For the five months
of this year 86 tons have been crushed for 4860 z. gold—an
average of soz. 13dwts. The reef runs about 6in., and the
country rock is hard, black granite. Only a few men are
employed. The Mt. Rose and Stockman Junction, which
paid £34,000 in divs., but has been sick for the last two
years, is now working a 2ft. reef of alleged ounce stone ;
divs. are again dreamt of.
» * # *
Never joke on money-matters. The other day,
near Herberton, Brown commissioned, by way of joke,
his friend Robinson to buy mining shares to the value
of £l2OO, with commission of 21%. Robinson immediately
departed, bought the whole mine for £l2OO, and paid £69
12s. as deposit. Brown was simply astounded when he
heard the news, refused to go on with the sale and for-
feited his deposit. Robinson then sued for deposit, £25
commission, and coach-fare—total, £105.. Verdict for £69
12s. and coach-fare—each side paying its own costs.
» * * *
The Adelaide brokers are working at fever-heat.
Nowadays, Sydney brokers work mainly for the Melbourne
and Adelaide markets. At one time, Adelaide was slow
enough, in a mining sense, but it got drunk at Broken
Hill time, and has never been quite sober since.
» ‘ * » *
At Woodlark a few Northern miners have again
struck it rich. The gold is found underneath the coral
(of which the surfaoe is oomposed) resting on slate. The
first example, it is asserted, of gold being foaad- la gueh a
situation.
TO A DIRTY OURRENCY.
Oh dirty, malodorous shreds of pollution !
Foul pasture for micro-bacterial motes,
To blazes I’ll send you for fiery ablution
Could I only afford it —vile-smelling bank-notes !
While I loathe you, I bless you, and fervently pray
(Altho’ your aroma and touch I abhor)
That my purse, now so empty, you’ll bulge every day,
And may I impound you by thousands galore 1
Mean, flimsy presentments of gold’s solid worth,
I detest you and love you in one puny breath ;
Still quite as presentable, now, as at birth,
I’ll scorn, yet embrace, till the hour of my death !
W.S.W.


r
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION.
THIS potion cures Swelling and Sandy might,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
' er -' beneficial to those who have IfeaTc Eyes 9 as it
strengthens the Sight. By post, 3s. per bottle.
Solely by H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing 1
Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATEBIALS THOROUGHLY SHRTJHH
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS
OFEICE
PROMENADE
RIDING
BUSH
TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/-
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SPECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of <£2 and upwards
to any railway station or'seaport in the colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.)
GEORGE &. BARRACK STREETS. SYDNEY.
TYPHOID
■ Or. Gresswkll, Chairman
■ Melb. Health Board, savs :
“Out and out Jeffery’s are the best filters.” The Pro-
fessor of Hygiene, Melb. University, says: “Ordinary
filters are powerless against perms so small as typhoid
perms; use a JEFFERY FILTER." The
Jeffery Filter principle is highly recommended by the
President N.S.W. Health Board. Write or call on J.
PICAROON, 4 Bond-street, SYDNEY ; or J. JEFFERY,
S 9 Spring-st., MELBOURNE. Prices, 15s. Cd to £3.
gd
—THE—
HERCULES SHIRT.
POST llf TK to any part of the colonies.
f
Sample Shirt on receipt of P. 0.0., 7 . ; or ,■{«) - ITalf-doz
Strongly recommended for station wear; is von durable
and unshrinkable: fitted with treble collar dips, state
chest measure, and size of collar usually worn.
Write for sample. I*l KK IS It OS., Brisbiine.
SOCIETY
COOLALTA
CAMEO
The facts of a recent divorce-suit tend to
the conclusion that the best wife for a literary
mantis one who doesn’t know any meaning
v , constitutional government,” doesn’t know
whether the Leg. Council is elected or nominated,
doesn t know the name of any Australian Premier
or how he got to be one, doesn’t know who is Pre-
sident of the United States, and doesn’t know
whether France is an empire or a republic
* * * *
A more or less recently-arrived Australian
Governor on the voyage hither didn’t care to
entrust his linen to careless washermen at the
vessel sports of call, so begged the services of a
steward during spare time for the whole trip. The
steward s remuneration at the end of the voyage
was a bijou Thanks j ” which he is now trying to
trade off at market price. The same regal figure-
head had some dogs on board. One of them (a
A POETS ASSETS.
LANDLADY (overhauling her lodger’s papers) : “ I can’t read the writing,
hut I never dreamed as he owed all that !”
true Conservative) never saw such a low' fellow as
a fireman, and showed his antipathy by tearing a
piece off the sooty individual’s new pair of pants.
The Gov. at once came forward with 2s. in remu-
neration.
* » * *
It has been asserted that the Kanaka is
incapable of being properly civilised. Not only
can the Kanaka be civilised, but he clings passion-
ately to the usages of cultured people—cherishing
even the impedimenta the former curse so heartily.
A wild Kanaka was recently found in the Isis
Scrub (Q.) perfectly naked but for a paper-collar.
* * * *
The ladies—bless their hearts ! of the
Sydney unemployed who deputated Premier Reid
the other day, asking him to find work for their
men folk, thus perorated in their written petition :
We hope that you (Reid) will have a long and happy
Reign (!), and live long, and meet with a happy death (!).
And be an archangel in the sky foreverandever-
amen ! Why not complete the forecast ?
* * * *
“Can’t you women take in washing?”
said jolly-and-fat Premier Reid to the deputation
of Sydney women with unemployed husbands and
starving families. “No. The Chinamen and
blackfellows get all the washing,” was promptly
chorused. “ I’ve had 15 children. Seven of ’em
are alive (here’s a fact for Dr. Muskett). One is
under 12 months old, and my husband is at home
minding it, in order that I may come here,” said
another. Oh, yes ; nursing mothers, with litters
of children, to go out, or take in, washing. The
babes and sucklings would help them at it.
From Armidale (N.S.W.) Budget
Mr. Lyne, leader of the Opposition, speaking at Wal-
bundrie on Saturday night last, said that if the police of
this colony had been similar to that of Victoria, the popu-
lation would now be 4,000,000.
“A woman is old
when she begins to try
and look young.” A man
is old when he begins to
take electric-baths.
» * *
A Maoriland “ so-
ciety ” divorce-case is
listed for the near future,
in which there are 27 co-
respondents.
* * *
Coolgardie social
item. An afternoon call
—iron - roofed Hessian
building. Mrs. Publee
Cann (loq.) : “I suppose,
Mrs. Wyld-Katte, that
our husbands are the two
richest men in Cool-
gardie.” Mrs. Wyld-
Katte : “ Yes! but you
will please remember
that your husband made
his money by pints ; mine
made his by quartz.”
» » *
Among recent Syd-
ney bankrupts was one
who had been “ a police-
constable up to two
months ago,” and who
“ left the force because
his creditors wrote to
the department.” Now,
indeed, has the escut-
cheon of the bobby been
besmirched. A police-
man a bankrupt ? No
terrace of houses ? No
watch and chain ? Ah,
but the excuse ! He was
a Scotchman !
* * *
- N.S.W. barrister (to
plaintiff in a wrongful-
dismissal action): “Is it
not true that your late
master said to you that
the depreciation in the
value of your services
necessitated a reduction
in your remuneration ? ’
“No, sir.” “Did he not
say something like that?’
“No, sir; nothin’ like
that.” “ Well, what did
he say?” “’E sed I was
no blanky good, and ’e’d
’ave to dock me. ” Fact.
A novel idea was recently introduced into
tennis at Mackay (Q.). At the close of the game
the gentlemen were invited to award the prize of
beauty to the most attractive player of the other
sex—which they accordingly did. In return the
ladies ballotted for the most agreeable gentleman
present, whom they promptly invested with a
little gold pm neatly carven into a donkey’s head,
ihe emblem is singularly appropriate for two-
thirds of the alleged lady-killers in all countries.
* * * »
Simpson, J. (Sydney) : “lam not bound
by Brother Windeyer’s opinion. ” Chorus of astral
females, clairaudiently heard : “ The wretch ! ”
* * * .
A new item of divorce properties is the
New Woman searching for the law on the subject
on her own,” in the Public Library—an attor-
neys clerk or two, with a keen eye to possible
business, hovering in the background. “ Can I
be of any service?” “O, these wretched law-
books ! one can never find what one wants. I’ve
looked all through this index, and they don’t even
nW°” „ tbe Shiels Act. Do find it for me,
please, &c., &c. O, I m a sohcitor, &c. , &c.
But I ve no money. “O, that doesn t matter,
your husband will have to pay your expenses m
any case. Really; well, I never ! What did
you say your address was? See., &c. Result:
Rotten v. Rotten, decree nisi with costs and per-
maneut alimony.
* * * *
N.S.W. State-school head-masters and
mistresses are in future to be remunerated accord-
ing to the grade of their schools; heretofore they
have been paid according to the certificate held.
But the Education authorities found that, under
this system of payment, some 1A certificated
teachers in charge of low-grade schools were en-
joying salaries intended only to be paid in the case
of first-class schools. Hence the new by-law,
which has saved the department some ,£3OOO since
the beginning of the year.
* * * *
Tooth : “I like the woman who
reads novelettes. I don’t like the one
who reads history, science, newspapers,
theology, botany, microscopic human
anatomy, or any other surgery. The
novelettiste is like a nice glove. She
knows all that is worth knowing. How
nattily she dresses, and hangs out the
angle for the nobleman sure to come
along.”
* * *
The Daily Telegraph, Launces-
ton (Tas.), a very, very moral paper
(which steals and reprints Bulletin mat-
ter without acknowledgment under a
heading called “In a Lighter Vein”),
published a column or more of matter
re the suiciding of Mrs. Edith Price, of
Melbourne. Every step of the journey,
from the room where the deed was done
to the looking-glass in which the poor
victim viewed her wounds, was traced
with ghastly exactness ; and every streak
and drop of blood was noted by the
gloating eye of the gory-minded scribe ;
all this for the benefit, of the unfor-
tunate lady’s relatives, who belonged
to Launceston.
* * *
The uniform in which Alfred
Deakin, the Radical, dazzled all eyes at
Gov. Brassey’s Birthday levee, was that
of the third-class of the Civil Service,
which, by the Queen’s regulations, a
colonial Executive Councillor is entitled
to wear. The suit is a mass of real gold-
lace and buttons, and costs about <£6o.
* * *
A cripple was brought before a
Sydney P.M. the other day, charged
with having no lawful visible means of
support. “What?” said the P.M.,
looking at the poor fellow’s crutches;
“ nonsense ! ’Smissed ! ”
It has transpired that it has been the
vogue of “ the ladies ” of the Sydney branch of
the “ Royal ” Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals to give their inspectors a number of
blank summons forms. One joker, now in gaol
for two years, used to get a J.P.’s name on to each
summons, fill in the name of a possible defendant,
pretend the feat had cost him ss. or 65., and black-
mail victims by offering to withdraw the summons
on payment of costs. . . . Which reminds us of a
Brisbane lady who, having to call together her
creditors, announced that she had bought land,
built a house, and purchased furniture on three’
six, and nine months’ bills; she didn’t know for
how much; she had just given her business manager
a number of blank p.n.’s, and he had done as he
chose with them !
Dear Bulletin,—At least two NSW
Superior Public Schools object to contribute’ to the
alleged school-children’s fund in aid of Parkes’s
family, believing that the personal credit of the
loca i Public Schoo] syBtem is d not to p
bufc to the l aTnen ted Jas. Greenwood. If the
name be changed from Parkes Bursary to Green
wood 8., it would give the writer, a head-
master, and his staff great satisfaction to sub-
scribe_ to and work for it.—Conscience.
[Cadging school-children’s pennies is a pitiful busi-
ness > anyhow. What does the average Australian
youngster care about Parkes—or anybody else? —
®*J
* * * *
They take a cheerful, Buffalo-Bill view of
some things in Westralia. A doctor recently
became hilarious, or excited, at Wyndhani, and,
after evincing signs of hostility at the Post-office,
began to shoot promiscuously into the building,
A P.O. clerk tried to get the revolver from him,
and, in the rough-and-tumble that ensued, it went
MORE “ TRILBY ” FEET.
Falk, Photo.
off and shot him dead. The coroners jury re-
turned a verdict of “death by misadventure,” and
didn't even make unkind remarks about the
medical shootist.
“DOUBTS DYING.”
Time! take from us
In our last hours,
Faith, Hope’s promise—
They’re withered flowers !
“ Do not flout them,”
Time sadly saith,
“For without them,
What sop to death ! ”
TRILBY
FOR THE BULLETIN
-f r r/AAH on/
K K.
E read in tales of olden
time
(As gospel we receive it)
How devilsentered into
swine
(Of course, we all believe it).
We’re all aware that Bible-talk
Unvarnished truth of course is,
Eor Hebrew devils dwell in pork,
And Christian ones—in horses.
The Devil himself was in her eye,
And fifty imps inside her ;
The Devil alone was game to try
To rope her in and ride her.
She was a filly, full of sport,
As equine youngsters will be ;
She acted as a filly ought
Whose maiden name is Trilby.
And now she’s dead, and gone to where
Four-legged devils rest—
A fitting ending for the mare
I owned (and Nick possessed);
For though Tareela riders are
Artists, and ever will be,
’Twas no disgrace for them to bar
“ That little demon —Trilby.”
RACKAROCK.
AT HER GATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How blest the wandered bird that sings
With such a woodland ecstasy
Till song is sorrow’s self, and he
Holds on thy roof his fretted wings,
All pain forgotten when with thee !
Thus would my wandered heart achieve,
So far outborne on wayward tide,
A still roof in thy heart, to hide
Sheltered from lonely night, and weave
Youth’s dream again, and there abide !
M aonland.
H.C.


CHAKXEMONTS
•. STUDIOS
492 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
Ll 4 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Firm of Charlemont & Co. confine
themselves to the execution of the highest
class of
Pbotograpby Ot)\y.
MATRIMONY.
T F you wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult
1 us. Our varied and extensive clientele enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stations of life. Local
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecy. All communications confidential. Information
sent free to bona-fide applications. Write for pamphlet
and rules.
Weldon's Matrimonial Association.
57 PHILLIPS STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next Hotel Metropole).
Scene, fruit-shop. Lady-customer: “Good
morning, Mrs. Cook! Cold, isn’t it?” Sho]
lady: “Hawful; I’m just about to light the gat
to eat the hare.”
The name of “ E. Dyson ” at the foot of a
yarn or a bit of verse is familiar to all readers of
The Bulletin, and is generally accepted as a
guarantee that something well worth study lies
above it. Mr. Dyson’s book of verse, entitled
“ Rhymes from the Mines and Other Lines,” is to
be published in style by Angus and Robertson
next month, and will be supplied direct from this
office.
One of the pleasantest, coolest, most
central and best-appointed restaurants in Sydney
is the Manhattan Dining Room, situated in the
basement of the great Equitable Building in
George-street, Sydney. It is in the middle of the
busiest portion of Sydney, and is in every respect
a high-class establishment with good cooking, good
attendance, a lavish bill of fare, and luxurious
fittings and furnishings.*
HOW TO ASSIST NATURE WITHOUT
hazardous force. —A gentleman, who is now above
eighty years of age, writes : —“I have for a long
time used ‘ Eno’s Eruit Salt ; ’ I have found it
an effective yet general aperient, very beneficial
to persons of sedentary habits, especially such as
exercise not the limbs but the brain, and fre-
quently require to assist nature without hazardous
force. It acts according to the quantity taken—
either as a relieving medicine, or as a cooling and
refreshing drink : and I am convinced that it does
not weaken when it stimulates.” Caution
Examine each bottle, and see the capsule is
marked “ Eno’s Fruit Salt.” Without it, you
have only a worthless imitation. Sold by all
chemists and stores.*
WATEROUS—
SAWMILLING- MACHINERY.
UP-TO-DATE SAWMILLS (Gang & Circular).
Wood-working Machinery.
ENGINES (Portable and Stationary).
LUBRICATING OILS, etc.
JpILLIAM FLEMING,
Australian Agent,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
JAMES KIDMAN, Crocer, Wipe ai)d Spirit Merchant,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR.
WHISKIES.
Walker’s Extra Special
„ Ordinary
Robertson’s XXX ..
„ X
Usher’s Special Reserve ...
~ Glenlivet O.V.G. ...
Buchanan’s (House of Commons) (white seal)
Dawson’s XXX Special
Brown’s 4-Crown
Glenkinchie Special (9 years old) ...
J.K. Special (8 years old) ...
Very Old Highland
Bullock, Lade & Co’s
4/3 per hot.
4/- „
4/3 „
4/- „
3,9
3/6
4/8 „
3/9 „
3/9 „
25/- per gal.
24/- „
22/- „
25/-
STOUT.
per do*. per doz.
Other Spirits, Beers, etc., will be advertised in next week’s issue.
JAMES KIDMAN,
OXFORD STREET, GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY; RILLITER STREET, LONDON.
Tasmania has set up a female
Oddfellows’ Lodge under the title
“The Loyal Maids of Cornwall.”
Is the married she-Oddfellow ex-
cluded, then, or is the term
“ maid ” supposed to have no more
significance than in the case of
“barmaid”? For was it not re-
counted in court that on a certain
historic occasion in a Melb. subur-
ban pub., a customer called “the
barmaid,” and the “ girl ” behind
the bar replied, hotly : “ Excuse
me, sir ! I am a married woman.’
* * *
Melbourne is now about the
most canvasser - cursed city on
earth. Every trade and profession
has its representative, else does
the principal quickly migrate or
come to inhabit any accidentally-
empty tank on the adjacent wharf.
The ordinary Smellbournite, a
couple of years ago, could easily
paper any ordinary room with
summonses and writs served on
him, say, in six months ; now, he
can readily shingle a ten-roomed
villa with the pasteboards of
people willing to feed, clothe, drug
or bury him, received during the
same period. The two best-paying
Melbourne businesses at present
should be the printing-offices and
the cardboard-mill at Broadford.
* * *
A lecturess at a Tas. Wo-
man-Suffrage meeting, held under
the auspices of the W.C.T. U.,
waxed eloquent when quoting
Huxley in support of the woman
vote. The assemblage preserved
an ominous silence. Then the
lady-talker quoted Parkes on
women, and the audience clapped
its large, damp hands in hysterical
joy and stamped its hoofs in un-
qualified approval. Great Spirit
of Humbug, live for ever !
* * *
Passengers on a suburban-
line station, a few days ago, were
pleased to hear the station-master
informing a brother official, per
telephone, that he had lost his
railway-pass owing to his wife’s
aunt having her pocket picked at
a station some hundreds of miles
inland. The aunt was probably
taking the pass for repairs.
* • •
Street accident in Adelaide ;
man laid out on footpath; pant-
ing crowd and the usual drunk in
evidence. Very fat “bobby”
heaves in sight after the proper
delay. Drunk (excitedly): “Stand
back, blokes, ’ere comes the cor-
pulence man !”
Gorgeous S.M. Herald advt., with a high
cheekbone : . . ~
A N APPEAL to the CHARITABLE.—A Christian
n)an> with family, is in need of £350 to save his
home. Who will help ? A cheque for the above
amount will be most thankfully acknowledged.
Urgent.
And here are three advts. for the special behoof of
the paper-collar brigade and of aspiring ahem
litterateurs :
pLERK wanted for typewriting and shorthand, wages
U 1 £i monthly. Reply Shorthand, Herald office.
YOUNG Gentleman, experienced, offers work on
station, or private family, any useful capacity,
with tuition to young pupils, English and shorthand,
terms ss. weekly, board and residence. X.Y., G.F.U.
X.Y. would make sure of his tucker, anyhow, and
his station “ board and residence ” should be of the
full value of Bs. weekly. And now consider this
ghastly sidelight of the times, clipped from Sydney
D.T.: —
SHORTHAND Writer and Typist offers services for
experience in journalism. Metropolitan press
preferred. Journalist, P. 0., Arncliffe.
The Arncliffe journalist would starve his profess—
no, his trade, in order that he may gam a niche in
its Temple of Starvation ! The times !
And here is a S.M. Herald “ Wanted ” :
T> ESPECTABLE young lady, to keep house for re-
TY gpectable young jockey. Apply by letter, Jack,
Herald.
* * * *
"DOES FOOTBALL BRUTALISE?”
. PV/ou ar -£ ckarqed wiH\
j bruhf.’jy your" -\a/<|a \
Pnso/Ylt yoj y(K w’sliij) Iqol
ir\ tV ‘dbil ov kicki/\' wVn [ BlaytJ
fooVball dt'wtfiUjt sfajonu on I
Vs*; Kick sorvmfun -I'm a
slavt fo 'dbil- Sir. I am. I"
, ( u . /'Jr / 7 ' '
%, fk ro 'FITSb MiM/*vai\ you ca/| A\4i\ "/ioF n\ucK t -
] " tt\ah .or i|^/n ere I y justifiable
r ~ lil >1 1 1 fll ■ .ui, u; li L ::'/ L I■ I «
'T/ME. Ge/STI—
GAhL?
\ t\Ornir\£rT\ ' /
"$ Wf) wt did
'avi a CjcV
" D'rf %y I
SCOI £ ? will 1
I sKogld smilt'.l
look at- irjt ! " ]
A Procjreys
In the recent S. Melb. election the united
council of the Womanhood-suffrage Association-
including such lights as Mrs. Bear Crawford, Miss
Michie (daughter of the Q.C.), and the Misses
Goldstein —canvassed the district in the interests
of H. H. Champion on bicycles. They were
assured that Mr. Champion would get the support
of the electors if he could explain certain things—
including the strike, and open letters addressed to
Dr. Bevan and to Michael Davitt. Mr. Cham-
pion’s champions were a plucky set: Miss Michie,
Miss LILLA WILDE (Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney).
Photo, by Falk.
it is said, actually waited upon attorney O’Hal-
loran, of Dowry case fame, and asked his vote for
H.H.C. The owner of the filly was painfully
silent, and would give no promises.
* * * *
There turned up at Sydney Divorce Court
last week a couple who had married four years
ago, when He was 70 and She was 06 years old.
Moreover, one of His daughters had previously
married one of Her sons. Yet the course of
this family true love ran riotously. He used to
lock Her out after 10 p.m. and throttle Her and
threaten strangulation. She, it was averred, used
to belt Him with a stick and had blinded one of
His eyes with a stroke. She now petitioned for
judicial separation and—got it. Is marriage a
failure ?
King O’Malley, who has entered the S.A.
Leg. Assembly with the prime object of abolish-
ing barmaids, expects the support of at least four
of the Ministers, the whole of the Labor-
party, and two or three teetotal Conservatives,
lie will probably not propose the immediate
sweeping away of the system, but that no places
vacated by a girl shall be filled by a girl, and
that no barmaid once out of a position shall re-
engage at an hotel.
Chief - Justice Maddem
vexed by the difficulty o f
making witnesses speak up>
remarked that, “ really there
seems a danger of Australia
being damned with small
voices.” Lecturer Charles
Clark, who can make a whis-
per heard in the farthest
corner of the largest hall, so
well-trained is his voice, read
this observation, and his com-
ment was the happy quota-
tion of the lines from Words-
worth’s “ Peter Bell ” :
Some sipping punch, some drink-
ing tea,
But, as you by their faces see,
All silent and all damned.
* * *
The thing that strikes
Charles Clark most on his re-
turn to Melbourne, where he
once pastorised, is the debt-
worriedness of the churches.
When he was minister of Al-
bert-street church he left it
free from debt, and with a
large congregation. Now its
condition is precisely other-
wise. A stone-throw away is
Chalmers church, which is so
hard-up that the parsonage has
had to be let, and there is talk
of selling the whole place. Just
at the back, the Unitarian
church is a mere shell —hardly
anyone attends it except Gyles
Turner, the Commercial Bank
manager, who practically keeps
it going.
* * *
Spagnoletti : “ Let me
haste to thumbnail the sweet-
est thing I ever heard of :
Young lady playing the piano
to the bailiff. I hope the chest
of drawers was not being manoeuvred out at the
back.”
* * * *
A Melb. pressman is endeavoring to make
a living by teaching ladies to play chess. He
ought to be wildly successful if he can teach them
anything new in the way of mating.
“BEN BOLT” UP TO DATE.
0, don’t you find women much altered, Ben Bolt,
Since Alice was put in the ground ?
She would wink nowadays, if you gave her a smile,
And turn up her nose if you frowned.
She would travel about with a bike, Ben Bolt,
And talk in a truculent tone ;
Let us sit on her slab, and be happy to say
Sweet Alice lies under the stone —
Smoke a pipe on the slab, and be ha-a-ppy to say
Sweet Alice lies under the stone.
One is told to think well of the sex, Ben Bolt,
They are tender and true, more or less ;
But where is the man who could give up the ghost
For a “ tart ” in a rational dress?
You have got a New Woman at home, Ben Bolt,
As you sometimes remark with a moan ;
Sweet Alice, who might have been living to-day,
Was better laid under the stone :
She’s a vision of youth, which can never decay
Although she lies under the stone.
E. F.
A THOUGHT.
[For The Bulletin.]
As Night fell black from the womb of Space
A man stared moodily in my face,
And a woman was weeping and wringing her
hands,
And a little child was calling.
And I thought, in Civilisation’s night
How many sullen eyes seek light !
How many women are wringing their hands .
How many children calling !
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice mil be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, ml in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Boononghii: Some power of emotion, but wild
and crude. A brumby on the hills is no use : you must
catch him and handle him Idler :Re yarn :We also
have “supped full of horrors.” Considering- Jap
Sprat : “ Jerry ” mixed and long for print. Don’t make a
reader climb a big hill unless you’ve got a big view to
show him E.M. (Ad.) : Letter at P.O W.T.G. :
Kendall’s poems are out of print. You might get a
second-hand copy Euroma : Prettv flat Robert A.
(M.L.): Not up M.C.V. (M.L.) : Doubtless author, to
whom forwarded, will appreciate C.C. : Possibly “ Yeo-
man.” J.F.M’G. : Thin for space. We’re not yet edu-
cated up—or attenuated down —to the American culture-
level Wallaby : Very tame wallaby. Try and bound a
little bit Phyl : Want yarn neatlj' dressed. Yours
is loosely wrapped in words like a woman in a bathing
gown Incog. : One verse of your atrocious libel: —
A good horse is their only joy,
He is their god without alloy ;
And yet it’s true' —who dares dispute ?
Their friendship does disgrace the brute.
LottaG.P. (Melb.): Will publish shortly L.A.G. :
It was sent to him in New Caledonia, and returned
A.K.A. : You don’t say what they were J. Jingle :
Irregular-bump-trot metre. Even if it contained ideas,
which it doesn’t, to read it would concuss a man’s spinal
column The Snag : Glad to hear from you regularly.
II. J. (G.) : Sorry can’t print them ; if we recorded one
such event a thousand similar would press their claims to
notice. Warrigal : “Cooramin” sketch climaxless
Zeehan : “ Not Understood ” appears in Bracken’s col-
lected poems. Ask any city bookseller E.B.C. : Verbal
photograph somewhat out of focus One Who Knows
(Melb.): We like to see both sides represented, but your
letter is clumsily libellous, and we can’t afford to print
clumsy libels. The Bulletin still considers Maloney,
M.L.A., a really good-natured little man, and not the sel-
fish hypocrite you paint him. All the same, it regards his
association with Geismardo-Richard as a shocking piece of
folly VV.E.W. : Commendable sentiment only Zad :
Kindly call H.A.C. : London literary papers are
beginning to charge Australian rhymers with “ barefaced
imitations,” and “Soul” is a pretty barefaced imitation
of Kipling .. . . Rex : The awful inaugural procession of the
Nicest people is a bit historic now ; but one chunk :
And then the procession !!! No circus
So motley a scramble e’er made,
As on bikes from past ages the “ workers”
Chipped cheerfully in the parade ;
But what were the flushes of anger
When the Nicest beheld on the route—
Could it be ? Yes it was !
Captain Dangar,
With a Chinaman hot in pursuit!
David (Dunedin, M.L.): No blood in ’em— i.e., not
blood —blood, but blood—vital fluid, soul, force, fire
C.C.S. : You try to crawl to vice-royalty, and when your
crawl isn’t accepted you ask a democratic paper to fling
mud at vice-royalty R.R. : “ Anni ” a bit thin
F. (W.A.): Sorry can’t sew it. Too many to handle
in a limited time True Pfeller (Marble Bar) : Too
“ steep.” ... H.J. : What does it all mean ? A.II. : The
Bulletin’s advertising success came to it simply because
those who travelled found it everywhere in Australia.
Also, advts. don’t buy this paper’s opinion Brookes :
As a sketch, it is not good enough C.C.: Dunedin local
interest; and words like “rupture” jar Spor : Not
poetic; and we feel to want a fourth-line rhyme
G. : Perhaps one : but try and avoid foot-notes to
poems. Have you no sense of anti-climax? Ballarat:
Little print-humor Wonnongatta: Fear the damper-
subject is exhausted J.L. (Swamp Oak): Rough, but
good; may use Machete: Triolets doubtful
Jimmie P. : Most miserable P.F. : That crime varies
with environment ( inter alia) is an old story now' H. ;
“If Ever” vague, outside epithets.


T b< Life loSGraijCS Conjpaoy
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia. OF NEW YORK.
The Largest, Wealthiest, and Most Progressive Life Insurance Company.
ASSETS (December 31, 1895)
RESERVE FUND
SURPLUS
INCOME for 1895
NEW BUSINESS PAID FOR IN 1895
INSURANCE and ANNUITIES IN FORCE
.£45,423,762
39,907,014
5,516,748
9,978,938
30,296,933
184,614,877
PLANS OF INSURANCE TO SUIT ALL REQUIREMENTS.
For information thereof apply to
Tbe MANAGER,
COMPANY’S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Or at the Branch Offices— Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
EAT AND DRINK.
TAKE NOTICE I
There are many kinds of everything ; but only
one is
THE BEST OF ITS KIND.
BILLY TEA
IS THU BEST TEA.
GRANUMA
IS THE BEST DIGESTIVE FOOD-
DRINK AND EAT.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirk
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
[?]
Sydney, Juno 9, 1890.
Mr Dear Moorabinda —
The committee-lady who idly complained to one
of her friends, the other evening, that “ nothing
funny ever happens at a public ball,” had every
reason to withdraw her complaint at the Fresh
Air League Ball, held in Sydney Town Hall.
Some mad wag had arranged the obsolete
quadrilles in place of the conventional lancers
for the first V.R. official set, and when the
salt of the gathering, 16 strong, took the floor
with the public eye upon them their confusion was
absolute. Nobody knew precisely what to do
with his or her partner, and the consequence was
the whole 16 either stood solemnly still or else
made aimless though spirited dashes to and fro, or
discussed the situation with one another. Miss
Brand occasionally stepped across to argue with
Her Excellent mamma, who stood passive beside
Mayor Ives—who, in his turn, appeared to be
rooted to the spot. Gov. Hampden certainly
darted to and fro like a hungry sparrow after flies,
and Mr. “ Seppy ” Stephen, dancing with Miss
Dorothy Brand, threw great verve into several
figures of eight which, no doubt, he had brought
with him from ’Ome—at any rate, I had never seen
anything like them in Australia before. But
nothing availed to save the Y.R. set from
being a wildly-comic incident. I understand
that a certain charming old lady who
is always chivvying people about was re-
sponsible for the fatal substitution of obsolete
quadrilles for lancers—and if so, I really think
she should have stood by with a wand and exer-
cised some of her well-known supervision. A
little gentle reminder such as “ Now, your Ex.
will kindly do a flip-flap, ” might have saved the
situation. And the odd thing was that the official,
to suit whose limited terpsichorean knowledge the
“ quads ” were set up, was far and away the worst-
fogged dancer in the set ! A lovely look-out for
Her Ex., who is doomed to be his official partner
nine times out of ten.
I was not impressed by the gubernatorial gown-
ing. Lady H. wore a black brocade with pink
roses on the corsage, and a few diamonds, dark
tan-colored gloves, and a committee bouquet,
which made a muddle of her toilette; Miss
Brand’s com. flowers (white and pink roses) were
ever so much more tasteful. The two V.R.
damsels were familiar in pink and cream frocks
respectively—but the Y.R. folks are not invariably
dressy; indeed, they sometimes look as if they
had periodical attacks of sackcloth and ashes.
They say that during a recent Y.R. visit to a
country show, the locals turned out a la Madame
Du Yan in silks and satins, so as not to be quite
wiped out by the Govt. House crowd. And, lo !
when the V.R. girls arrived they were clad in
washing print.
The F.A.L. committee-women were resplendent
in gay attire. The hon. treasurer (Mrs. Caro)
wore a new shade of coral satin brocade and dia-
monds, and one of the secretaries (Miss Richards)
was artistic in ivory pompadour silk, pink satin,
pink roses, and sea-green chiffon. Everybody was
in silk and (black) satin, which is going to be
fashionable this season after having been outlawed
ever since the notorious Mrs. Manning was hanged
in London in a black satin gown ever so long ago.
The fashion has taken a long time to revive in.
By the way, at a ball the other night a Sydney
society matron turned up with her raven hair
dyed yellow, and a Frenchy frock with plenty of
skirt to it, anyhow. She recalled the lady in
“The Importance of Being Earnest,” who got a
French dressmaker with the most marked results.
She also suggested that when the lady of a certain
age dips her cranium into peroxide of hydrogen
she may, after all, be only anxious to look the part
of a sere-and-yellow-leaf. ' And another golden-
haired matron in velvet was ecstatically pro-
nounced to be a “ picture ” by an impulsive girl
who really hit the mark. Pictures are mostly
painted.
To return to the F.A.L. ball —floor, music, and
supper were above reproach, and the decorations
were goodly barring those observable on the men-
folk, for, from His Ex. forward, the absence of
boutonnieres was almost disheartening. A button-
hole takes ten years off a man’s age, as they say in
“ Charlie’s Aunt,” and yet half the men at the
ball went without ’em. How different to the
stage ! “ Trilby,” for example, where all the gay
young men are uniformly beflowered with white
blooms, not to assert blamelessness but purely for
startling effect. I must confess, though, that I
consider the “Trilby” white boutonniere gets a
little overdone, especially as some of them are so
obviously paper.
The adorable Rev. Charles Clark opened to a
good house the other Tuesday at Sydney Cen-
tenary Hall, and was flatteringly received by a
well-dressed crowd who all listened attentively,
barring one young lady who had received a criss-
crossed letter from one of the Australian cricketers
at ’Ome, and who had apparently attended the
lecture to let the people see the famous signature.
Mr. Clark has accumulated a good deal more
waistcoat than when I last saw him, and his watch-
chain, therefore, hits you in the eye with greater
regularity than before ; but he is an imposing
figure on the platform, suggesting what Gov.
Brassey might have been if he had only grown
longitudinally instead of t’other way. The Rev.
Charles has picturesque grey hair, and a voice
like a lion when he likes, and even his fearful and
wonderful devotion to his Flag and his Queen
and the palpable way he barracks for Hands
across the Sea, and all the rest of it, cannot spoil
“ Old St. Paul’s ” —a soul-stirring account of the
good old days when the man with the heaviest fist
had all the say. By the way, Mr. Clark doesn’t
like the fashions. He devoutly wished the church
still had something to say in regulating female
attire, and expressed a belief that we would then
see the last of “ cart-wheel hats and balloon-
sleeves.” But how unjust! As for our big hats
I am sure many a Cardinal’s hat beats ours in
circumference and crude color, and, as for our
sleeves— didn’t we, in the first place, boldly take
the pattern for ’em off my lord the BNhop himself?
The intellectual sorrow of Sydney, “the
Women’s Literary Club,” held its usual meeting
in the society’s rooms on Monday. Papers on the
subject of the evening, “ The probable social
effects of ‘Looking Backward,”’ were read by
Miss H. and Miss P. A philosopher like Bellamy
has such different effects on different people that I
would really like to know what decision the club
came to about it. But really no woman should
ever look backwards. If she does she generally
finds the man she has just passed looking back-
wards too. And if he isn’t she is greatly dis-
gusted. And women have scriptural authority for
not looking backwards. Take Mrs. Lot, for
instance.
From W. H. Paling I have received the “ Par-
thia Schottische,” by Thos. E. Bulch. The
“ Parthia ” is a lively, grig-like musical trifle, none
the worse for being evidently inspired by “ Her
Golden Hair was Hanging down her Back.” A
“Souvenir d’Australie,” by E. Terlice, is a
“ piece” pure and simple, presentingno difficulties
to the most modern executant, and is only danger-
ous to life on account of a long glissando which is
liable to skin the digits of the unpractised ventur-
ing on it unadvisedly. And from the same firm I
am glad to receive another copy of Emile Ludlow’s
clever “Crescent” waltz, which has reached a
well-deserved fifth edition. Two vice-regally-
dedicated waltzes are “The Brand” (equivocal
name for an Australian composition !), by W. J.
Ellis, a dashing waltz with plenty of swing and
hammer about it; and “We Two ” waltz, by M.
L. Chambers, a carefully-written dance number
lacking, however, the spontaneity which ought to
wing the heels of dance music.
The Kennel Club show, held at Sydney Exhibi-
tion Building during last week, was one of the
most successful dog-gatherings ever staged in
Sydney—which is saying a great deal, for dog-
shows are popular things. Women like them be-
cause they can be sure of meeting most of their
male acquaintances there —for the dog is much
more than the friend of man—he is his idol, and
the apple of his eye thrown in. Perhaps man’s
devotion to dogs is the real reason why so many
marriageable girls try to look like Skye-terriers or
curl their hair in the poodle-vogue ? And, if you
notice, it’s generally the curly little women with
poodle profiles who go off quickest in the matri-
monial market. I know of one girl who won a
very respectable husband because of a poodleish
trick she had of balancing a biscuit on her nose—
and everybody will admit that the hash-house lady
who has a bulldog jaw stands a far better chance
of collecting her tithes from her male “guests”
than the landlady who looks like a moulting
canary. But these are digressions.
I can’t say I admire Gov. Hampden’s favorite
Dachshunds —long-bodied, long-legged monstro-
sities much like a Chinese idea of a bow-wow. I
preferred Airedales—one little black puppy of that
breed looked a very game baby. The fox-terriers
were numerous and of the same colors as usual.
Dog-shows are different to flower-shows in that
respect —they’re always doing something to flowers
to produce a novel color; but they never alter the
hue of dogs. If anybody produced a fox-terrier
with a pink skin and an elephant’s-breath patch
what a figure he’d touch ! But perhaps the colors
I mention are already in the market, for paint-box
names of colors are no use in speaking of dogs.
“ D’ye think he’s quite blue enough ? ” 1 heard a
connoisseur say before a large brindled animal as
grey as a badger.
The growth and spread of skinflintism in Aus-
tralia should be rapturously hailed by Anglo-
maniacs down-under as a sure sign that we are
becoming English very rapidly. When a rich
Australian first reaches England he spends his
money freely, but he soon draws in his horns on
finding that it is fashionable to be mean, and that
the very bluest-blooded plutocrats are the hardest
of nails. One Government House sets a splendid
example of old-world thrift—the latest instance
being when His Ex. decided to buy a pair of
carriage horses, and sent for a leading vet. to see
if he knew of anything suitable. The vet. of
course had the very thing, and H.E. expressed his
delight on all points until it came to the price—
three figures—and then his vice regal jaw dropped.
“Ai couldn’t think of payin’ more than £5O at
the outside,” he said in a horrified voice, adding
indignantly, “ Ai always understood hawses were
cheap in Austrailyah.” There’s not much profit
in selling to the Great now-a-days, who are like
country people come to town in their abject fear
of being “ taken down.”
At the recent marriage of Gov. Gormanston’s
cousin, Major Deasy, to Miss Marley, ex-governess
at Govt. House, Hobart Society looked on with
much the same expression, I expect, that a cat
wears when'll mouse escapes. The habit rapidly
gaining ground in vice-regal circles, of finding a
mate indoors, is considered almost unconstitu-
tional by marriageable Society, and is almost as
great a smash of unwritten law as though a matri-
monial agency should begin to make love to its
clients, obviously intended for somebody else.
Since this phase of inter-tribal marrying began to
boom at various Guvmentouses, match-making
mammas cast an anxious glance at a certain large
vice-regal party in which the women always swamp
the men, and decide that, if the epidemic sets in
there, somebody will have to commit polyandry to
make the suite go round.
The French ball, to be held at Paddington Town
Hall next Monday evening (15th), will be in the
presence of the Gov. and Lady Hampden, Mons.
J. Rigoreau, acting-consul for France, and all the
notabilities. Mrs. B. R. Wise and Mrs. Thring
are secretaries, and tickets are 7s. 6d. I under-
stand that supper will be served h la frangaise this
time. On Wednesday next the S.A.O.S. give a
grand concert in Sydney Town Hall with Signor
Hazon at the prow. A musical treat may be con-
fidently anticipated as far as the orchestra goes.
Miss Milly Wynn is to assist the society for the
first time, as a vocalist. On Monday, June 22,
the Suburban Bicycle Club and Darlinghurst
Harriers give their annual ball at Leigh House.
The Centennial Tennis Club dance is down for the
25th inst. (Miss Mowle and Miss Summerville
hon secs.), and on 30th June the Tempe ball takes
place in Sydney Town Hall, tickets for which are
selling like fat sheep.
Despite an excellent portrait of myself at the
head of this letter, there seems to be some doubt
abroad as to whether lam a man or a woman ! I
hear from Marble Bar (Westralia) that A. and B.
have a bet—A. wagers that I am a man ; B. that
I a woman. lam inclined to believe that B. wins.
But people really seem so uncertain upon the
question, on which I have once or twice overheard
heated arguments, that I sometimes get a little
shaky on the subject myself. Anyhow, to settle
the Westralian wager, I may say that I have every
reason to believe that lam a woman. I always
look under the bed at night for burglars, and can-
not hammer a nail—and these, mind you, are only
two of many triumphant proofs which I might
advance in favor of my own theory if space per-
mitted.
The presentation to Governor Hampden at
Grafton of a myall stick cut 30 years ago when the
Duke of Edinburgh raged on the Australian con-
tinent and never went a railway journey without
timorously inquiring if there were any Mayors on
that line —recalls the yarn lately revived in a
London journal, of Edinburgh’s second official
visit, when he made friends with the prettiest girl
in New South Wales, and consequently gave
Sydney the lion’s share of his time. When he
tore himself away at last, His Royal Meanness
presented the lady with a diamond bracelet in
token of the many pleasant hours passed in
her society. A copy of the letter which accom-
panied the gift was published in the daily
papers, making Sydney society rage as one
woman. But its mourning was turned into joy
when, by-and-bye, it leaked out that the stones
had been valued by a jeweller and had proved to
be paste! This, however, did not prevent the
canny (or cozened) Prince from putting down the
worth of the bracelet as .£2OO among his official
ex.’s when he got back to his bleeding country,
which “publicly refused to allow this demand,
which was privately settled out of the secret-
service fund. ” In the face of this characteristic
anecdote, it really looks as if Gov. Hampden’s
myall stick isn’t very marketable, or else the
greedy “ Duke ” would never have left it behind
him.
On dit that w'hen a perambulating and popular
vice-regality, who is not altogether deaf, dumb
and blind to the charms of womankind, was being
received with triumphal arches of gum-tree and
waving banners at, say, Mindaribba, a feature of
the badly-spelt decorations was a flag made out
of a petticoat, with “Welcome, Yere de Vere ! ”
blazoned upon it. The inference was —but I really
forget what the inference was. However, petti-
coat-flags are a bright idea, anyway—an economi-
cal method of utilising what threatens to become
an obsolete garment.
It was at the same, or a similar shivoo, that the
townsfolk were hugely entertained at the patroni-
sing air adopted by the mayor, who outbowed
His Ex. by a bushel of nods, though he ought to
have been hiding under the seat blushing at the
way “ Britannia ” was spelt all through his
borough (I think it must be called a borough,
because the mayor’s official robes are generally
trimmed w'ith rabbit-skin). His Worship and
daughter drove by in the mayoral carriage, each
bowing from right to left, amid the smothered
mirth of the onlookers. Bowing from the head of
a procession is the privilege of Governors, and
means just nothing at all. Its real utility is that
the uninitiated may easdy pick out the star in the
circus.
It seems that, despite his ardor and hard work
Gov. Lamington has not succeeded in catching the
coy goddess of popularity. In a country where a
working man sings out to the ’bus-driver ‘keep
the change,’ the grip of the bawbees that prompts
haggling over details of shillings and pence doesn’t
catch on with the multitude.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ Melbourne society complains that all sanctitv
left Govt. House when its inmates threw open
their gates to home-reading nobodies, militarv
rank-and-file, and, worst of all, horrid, greedy
State-school brats. The First Families take their
turn, too, night about with those others (ugh I)
but they grudge sharing the Master’s bread with
the dogS, so to speak. Besides, though the crea
tures aforesaid may be satisfied, the Brassevs
really do take “ company ” calmly. Their hospi-
tality-recipe apparently prescribes ‘ Guests ad
lib., refreshments scanty, dancing nil., standing
room unnecessary.’
“Another peculiarity of the present vice-regal
dynasty is its proneness to accident. His Ex' 5
dost remember?—sighted Australian soil with two
lovely black eyes. Since then his nose his
daughter’s ankle, a grandson’s wrist, and sec
Wallington’s arm, have all been publicly paraded
in slings, and now aide Nevill has gone to bed in
a full suit of bruises gained in the hunting-field.
‘ 1 Mrs. Freeman-Thomas seems to have inherited
all her mother’s pluck and go, and whether it’s
down hill on a bike, or over a stiff fence on horse
back, invariably shows hubby the way. Her pride
in her youngster, too, recalls the fond nursery-
chronicles of the ‘Sunbeam’ series, and never
does she look more beaming than when off to the
Zoo or the beach with ‘ Rouge-Bonnet,’ otherwise
Freeman-Thomas, Junr., and his dad, the latter
blinking mildly in the shadow of a typical British
holiday-hat.
“ Coolgardie localities take their names from
Melb. suburbs. A Victorian girl, who lately went
there as a bride, writes that her charming wood
and-canvas villa in Hawthorn boasts three rooms
no yard, and a back-door, infested by stray
camels. In ‘ Toorak,’ she says, there are beautiful
four and six-roomed ‘ Mansions ’ for sale, which
of course, are too expensive. Meat is still Is. per
lb., cabbages fid. each, but money is not over-
scarce, and altogether it’s great fun.
“The plaintiff in a recent English upper-
crust slander-case spent her early married life
in a Bananaland town where her own sex did not
love her a bit. The Northern aristocracy, it
seems, incurred her resentment by giving out that
before ‘ he picked her up ’ she colored photographs
professionally down Sydney way. In return, the
sprightly Uitlander presented every woman in the
place with a nickname, calling one ‘ Nose,’ another
‘ Bunions,’ and so on. If the men hadn’t quoted
her ‘ impertinences ’ her victims would not have
cared a scrap, so they said. As it was !
“ Talking of Queensland ; some blackfellows up
there swam ever so far, the other day, to bring help
to a shipwrecked picnic party. They are to be re
warded by gorgeous brass-plates to hang round
their necks, and four of these baubles have been
ordered, though the heroes number only three.
Another darkie, a mate of theirs, would certainly
use his tomahawk if he were left out in the cold
just because he had nothing to do with the rescue.
So the donors have decided that, even at the cost
of a few shillings extra, it is better to buy safety
for their black benefactors.
“ The Austral Salon was quite cheery the other
evening, when Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis gave some of
her ideas on Shakespeare, interspersed with per-
sonal theatrical experiences. Such a bright, crisp,
interesting lecturette; a Salonite did well to
announce that it was the best woman’s paper ever
read there. Otherwise the official congratulations
were not too happily expressed. Both speakers
made so much fuss about the lecturess’s age, pull-
ing up here and there to ask her forgiveness for
saying she’d been here so long, &c. Not that a
blithe, bonnie, charming woman like their victim
has any cause to be sensitive on that score. It is
a good old-fashioned rule that ladies’ ages are not
to be proclaimed from the house-tops. Still, when
you have transgressed the law, mounting the
steeple to apologise only makes things worse.
“ R. S. Smythe wouldn’t give Gov. Brassey ill
a week as a professional lecturer. The little man's
oration on the Navy at Melb. Town Hall was th
dullest, stupidest, hum-haw-est, yawn-and-snooz-
lest piece of statistical flapdoodle mortal man ever
imposed on a tired audience. But, of course, no-
body paid anything to be present, and everybody
seemed inclined to tolerate H.E. because he is
supposed to be a naval expert, and it is the privi-
lege of experts to be bores on their own special
subjects. But, as for there being any interest in
the thing—why, the lecture was so leaden that its
delivery on board an ironclad would sink the
vessel in half-an-hour.
“ The truth is that the ponderous and humor-
less Gov. Brassey' is a most exasperating speaker
to listen to. He is slow —80 words a minute,
reporters say, is his average speed —and every
sentence is cut up with hum—hum — hum—haw-
haws, which are as little stools upon which his
mind sits down to think about what is to come
next. He chucks chunks of statistics at his audi-
ence, and if he has any argument t® round off,
with any neatness, never does it in his own words,
but drags in a quotation. At least one-fifth of
every speech he makes consists of quotations.
“ LadyVßrassey certainly cannot spend much in
dress. The violet cape and bonnet which she
wore at the Vic. Artists’ Society Exhibition o[ien-
ing, she has been wearing at various public
functions for a few months past. Lady Bn s ev,
in fact, really seems to be less inclined to show off
than any other member of the Gwvmentous : set.
Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
Brisb. Echo reiterates what The Bulletin
said some time ago, that Psemier Nelson’s early
retirement is certain. He was only hanging on to
politics till he got his bauble, and now he has it
the game’s not worth playing. Byrnes is to suc-
ceed him, and Tozer is to be thrown out. Boor
Tozer is always getting thrown out.
The Chinese vegetable-gardens about Mel-
bourne absorb a lot of Caucasian labor. The
Chow pays os. a day and never offers lower. The
white man jumps at the chance and says he oouldn t
wish for a better boss. A lot better than ex-
Mayor Snowden’s 4s. lid. a day for man, horse
and dray.
Mr. Donald Manson, the original repre-
sentative in Australia of the Waltham Watch
Company, of the U*S., and whose name was a
synonym for generosity and good fellowship, died
last week in Sydney of acute Bright's disease after
a very short illness. His remains were followed
to the grave on Sunday' by a large number of
sincere friends.


gdf
H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Photographic Stock PcalcrS,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
UJIC, OPTICAL AND DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, etc.
The New Pocket Kodak, price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM fok 12 EXPOSURES, 16 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Liss.
Great Photography.
What the Wonderful New Invention Mat
Show Regarding Things We Already Know.
“It is an astounding discovery—one of the
marvels of the present age.”
It was in these words that an eminent scientist
lately referred to the new and wonderful invention
in photography which everybody is discussing.
This great invention, as most people are aware,
enables photographers to take pictures of objects
completely hidden from the sight. In a recent
experiment, for instance, a portrait of a man was
secured, although he was separated from the
photographer by a three - inch partition. In
another case, a picture was obtained of all the
bones, muscles, blood vessels, and internal organs
in a man’s body.
In speaking of this wonderful discovery, a well-
known physician recently said : “If thousands of
people who are walking the street to-day, and
attending to business, could only see a photograph
of their internal organs, they would be filled with
alarm and dread. They would see their liver
and kidneys clogged with impurities, and their
blood filled with deadly secretions which poison
the whole system. They would see these delicate
organs slowly but surely giving way under this
corroding, poisoning influence. Oh, what an
effect such a picture would have ! ”
The doctor is perfectly right, but at the same
time there are thousands of people who need no
photograph to tell them that there is something
wrong with their health. They know that they
do not feel as well as they ought to feel. They
complain of tired feelings, nervousness, headaches,
backaches, stomach troubles, constipation, and
dull, heavy sensations. They feel miserable, but
do not know why they suffer. It is only the
skilled physician who knows that these symptoms
are all caused by the liver and kidneys being out
of order. When these great organs of the body
fail to act properly, the health speedily breaks
down.
It is a knowledge of this important fact that
lead to one of the greatest discoveries of modern
times. For long years the brightest men in the
medical profession sought for a remedy which
would cure all these derangements of the liver and
kidneys, and at last they succeeded in finding it.
This great remedy, which has proven a blessing to
thousands, is Warner’s “Safe” Cure, a remedy
that to-day is known and honoured all over the
world. No other remedy has ever equalled it for
making weak, run-down people feel strong and
well. It is universally admitted to be the safest
and best remedy for curing every form of liver and
kidney disease. It puts an end to stomach
troubles, purifies and enriches the blood, and
restores lost vitality.
This great “Safe” Cure is not an experiment.
It has been in use for over twenty years, and has
been the means of saving millions of lives. No
other remedy compares with it for building up the
system and imparting new life to every part of the
body.*
“ The Colossus of Life Insurance.” — Westminster Gazette.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE
convciPAJisnz'..
ASSETS - - £35,9185,430.
RESIDENT BOARD FOR AUSTRALASIA :
(With power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.)
THE Hon. Sir JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G. (President Legislative Council, New South Wales), Chairman.
G. C. WESTGARTH, Esq. (Messrs. Westgarth & Co., Solicitors, Sydney).
W. EDWARD WARREN, Esq., M.D. (Chief Medical Officer).
GENERAL MANAGER DEPARTMENT OF AUSTRALASIA:
THOMAS P. PURVES, A. I. A.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH OFFICES !
NEW SOUTH WALES:
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
VICTOKIA :
ai7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND: 227 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
£2T Enquire for particulars of the Accumulation Policy of this Company.
Personal Items.
Governor Phillip’s statue. Why not erect
it on Pinchgut ?
An historic Southern boomster’s wife seems
to have pouched £30,000 out of a deal in Mount
Lyell debentures.
“lam 86,” said the Pope, recently. “ I
don’t think there is any reason why I should not
live to be 96. ” Which recalls Henry Parkes.
Australia is now equally divided between
titled and untitled Premiers. Nelson, Braddon
and Forrest take one side; Reid, Turner and
Kingston the other.
All the Judges of N.S.W. Supreme Court,
excepting Innes (who was ill), and the two Acting-
Judges—Rogers and Cohen ; also all the Queen’s
Counsel excepting Dr. Donovan; have had a finger
in the Dean pie.
Salomons, Q.C., when in Rome, the other
day, privately interviewed the Pope. The perkv
Q.C. probably took opportunity to ask his Holi-
ness whether he could recommend him an ecclesi-
astical cure for the curse of Dean.
Sydney stipendiary Giles, recently retired,
was one of Charles Cowper’s nominees to N.S.W.
Legislative Council when that premier attempted
(in ’62) to swamp the chamber for the purpo.se of
passing John Robertson’s Land Bill.
Premier Turner will leave Melbourne for
England as soon as the doctors can persuade him
to go. It is quite time that the weary solicitor
resigned himself to the inevitable, and knocked
off work before work knocks off Turner.
One of the N.S.W. Tax-Commissioners so
intensely feels the stress of figures that an early
rest or resignation is spoken of. If anything of
this kind happens Mr. M‘Cowan, of Maoriland,
will, it is understood, be approached anew.
Mrs. Brown-Potter is an enthusiastic
wheelist, and has brought along a bike and gor-
geous Parisian “ rational ” dress. Already she has
been seen careering along St. Kilda Road showing
a pair of understandings which are scarcely worth
mentioning.
Rudyard Kipling yarns that his first Aus-
tralian interviewer begged him, as a favor, to
father 4 cols, of a “ policy for Australia ” which
he had invented, and which no paper would take.
Kipling weakly consented ; and was credited with
setting Australia right exactly 16min. after he
landed.
‘ ‘ J ustice Stephen is greatly improved by
his trip. He does his work on the Bench now in fine
spirits.” His Honor started on the tripat the end
of the two months’ court holidays and returned
at the end of another two months’ holidays, thus
making his idle spell (paid for at full rates) 16 in-
stead of 12 months.
N.S.W. Govt. Astronomer Russell —just
reduced £lO5 a year by the C.S. Commission—has
been converted to the theory of lunar influences
on the periodicity of droughts, and believes in a
19-years’ cycle as the drought-wheel. Did not
drought-prophet Egeson, a quondam subordinate
of Russell, also believe in the cycle theory ?
F. 0. Ournow,
one of the recent
probables for Q.
Railway - Oommis-
sionership, vacated
the other day by
Mathieson, is a
brother of Editor
Curnow, of S.M.
Herald. Curnow
is theQ. Goodchap,
a man who grew
up with his rail-
way - system, and
who, like Good-
chap, was deposed
to make room for
a Commission of
three, but was pen-
sioned off at some-
thing like one-half
what the easy-man-
nered Goodchap
draws. When it
was thought Eddy
had r'esigned,
Goodchap’s claim
to reinstatement
was vigorously can-
vassed, and it is a
political coinci-
dence that the dis-
ruption of the Q.
Commission of
three was followed
by a similar agita-
tion in favor of the
discarded Curnow.
Gray, who succeeds
Mathieson, was not
to the railway man-
ner born or bred,
bo that Cumow’s
backers will con-
tinue to hope.
After H.M.S.
Karrakatta to we 1
the yacht Sunbeam
out of the mud at
Hobart, and ren-
dered other valu-
able services to her
noble owner —ser-
vices which, at
least were worth £2OO-Gov. Brassey sent on
board <£lo. £lO among 90 odd men—say half-a-
crown each. Magnificent !
Young Dilke, son of the celebrated Eng-
lish baronet, came to Australia, it is alleged, to
buy a sheep-station —not to offer himself to the
shearers. In Adelaide he had another battle with
“the Count,” Oxenham’s partner, and had the
best of it, striking him for a <£3ooo double, Simu-
lator and Banjo. Dilke was the sensation of the
recent S.A. meeting. He is a bright, gentle-
mannered youth, who, sooner or later, will learn
that no punter who ever lived was a natch for the
Australian bookmaker —with the noble Australian
horseowner at the latter’s back.
G. Republican Dibbs, now at the head of
N.S.W. Savings Bank and out of politics, spends
much of his spare time at the lathe, turning out,
among other things, shirt-studs made of myall-
wood, which he distributes among his friends.
At Sydney licensed victuallers’ annual shivoo re-
cently he decorated Copeland’s bulgy shirt-front
with these articles to such an extent that after
lunch the expanded one looked like a moveable
hat-stand.
Apropos several things.
One day, long ago, when
old Jack Robertson was
N.S.W. Premier and was
travelling with a party
in the country, a deadbeat
swagman whom they met
hung out signals of distress;
whereupon old Jack emp-
tied on to the road the con-
tents of his pocket. * ‘ Very
unwise that, Sir John,”
said temperance - apostle
John Davies, who was
one of the party, “that
man will surely .go back
two miles to the public-
house and spend youJ
money in drink.” “I sup-
pose he will, Mr. Blanky
Davies,” said old Jack, “ if
he doesn’t he will be a
blanky fool. I know I
blanky well would ”
There are in N.S.W.
National Gallery three
mementoes of Parkes—the
full-length portrait in oils
by Ashton ; an ivory coupl-
ing-ring turned by the ex-
Premier 1850 in for Oapt.
Johnstone, of Annandale,
and now in the collection
of curios presented by the
captain’s widow to the
Art Gallery ; and a pencil
sketch taken in 1854 while
Parkes, as proprietor of
the Empire, was giving
evidence against the ac-
cused in what is known as
“the Printers’ Conspiracy.”
The sketch is by an artist
named Rodius, and in the
frame with it are sketches
of other old-time colonists,
Edward Broadhurst, Q.C.,
in wig and gown, barrister
Foster— not W.G. the
father of the Josephsons, &c.
Chief Justice Darley professes to be unable
to understand how Mr. Moodie became a member
of the Dean Defence Committee at a time when he
believed Dean guilty. When Mr. Moodie joined
the Committee, he said he did so, not for the sake
of proving Dean’s innocence or otherwise, but to
insist on the right of every man having a fair
trial. It was not Dean who was at stake, but the
liberty of the subject, and the necessity for having
it understood that no man on trial, and no jury,
should be domineered over by an arrogant Judge.
TIM’S PREDICTION.
CONTRACTOR: “Mick, you, saw the accident. Tell the constable what
happened .”
MICK: “ Faith , sor, it was only yisterday poor Tim tould me this job would
be the death of him. Tim, whatever else, was no loir.”
David Syme gets more absurdly “ loyal ”
as he grows older. From this year’s birthday-
leader in the Age. Behold :
Queen Victoria is a sovereign over a continent, over 100
peninsulas, 500 promontories, 1000 lakes, 2000 rivers, and
10,000 islands. She waves her hand and 900,000 warriors
inarch to battle in “ thin red lines,” as stubborn as those
in the historic past. She bends her head in acquiescence,
and 1000 ships of war and 100,000 sailors do her bidding
on the ocean. She walks upon the earth, and 400,000,000
human beings feel the pressure of her foot.
And, after all, this majestic personage is only an
old lady who gets <£385,000 per annum for pre-
tending. She is the fly on the wheel, and D.
Syme insists throughout two columns that she is
hauling the coach. Arise, Sir David !
Spalding and Airey, colonels, who retire
from N.S.W. military life at the end of this month,
served as a span of the bridge that connects Aus-
tralian soldiery with British. The British Secre-
tary of State at last declared firmly against longer
supporting soldiers in Australia out of the British
revenue, whereupon N.S.W. Parliament voted
.£20,000 to start a regular army of its own. Among
the first appointed were Spalding (then in Aus-
tralia on half-pay) and Airey—who visited the
Soudan in England’s “darkest hour,” and who talks
proudly from time to time of what might have oc-
curred if something which didn’t happen had only
taken place.
The murmurs of a threatening storm begin
to float on the placid surface of dull sassiety, which
does not appreciate “ thrift ” in a Guvnah reported
to be possessed of seven millions. H.E. is said to
have explained his lack of lavishness by a remark
that ‘ * the Victorians would have to learn that a
Governor didn’t keep up the style they expected
on a paltry £lO,OOO a year.”
“Be just and fear not” was the motto
inscribed on boomster Bent’s S. Melb. election
posters. The electors were just, and the conster-
nation fell upon Bent. But Bent is not yet
squelched. When told that he had forfeited his
deposit-money after the S. Melb. polling, he
replied, “Well, it is a poor recompense to the
State for the loss of my services.”
Notwithstanding the number and quality
of the late Sergeant-Major Shegog’s medals, Tas.
Commandant Parker refused to accord the Bala-
clava hero a military funeral. Recently a grocer -
Volunteer officer was buried with all the pomp and
glory of war: the whole city turned out. Few
followed Shegog. He retired as he had lived in
Tasmania—quietly and almost unknown.
A London letter-writer apprises a Sydney
friend that his Honor Judge Windeyer has reached
his old form in the pursuit of spiritualistic pheno-
mena. He says the on-leave Judge is personally
cultivated by several notable materialisers, and is
stronger in the ‘ * faith ” now than at any previous
part of his career. A special stance should be
arranged for the Judge to interview the Mt.
Rennie ghosts, with Stead to write it up.
When the late Maori king, Tawhaio, was
induced to go to England with a view to placing
his race’s land-grievance before Queen Victoria,
Her Majesty declined to see him. “No matter,”
said Tawhaio to a Maorilander whom he met in a
London restaurant and who won his heart by
addressing him in his own lingo ; “ plenty beauti-
ful wahines that I meet in the street ask me to
come and see them.”
In transcribing the cable re the Czar’s
coronation, no less than two Sydney dailies spell
“anointed” with a double “ n ’’ —“annointed.”
Which recalls an old story. When Sydney
Evening News, owned by the Bennetts, was at
fierce war with the equally-romanceful Stak, the
former paper, referring to its loathsome contem-
porary, used to constantly print the heading
“ Ananias Again ! ’’—spelling Ananias, however,
with a double “n ” : “ Annanias.” “ Why,” asked
someone, “does the News spell Ananias with a
double ‘n’?” “Pure egotism,” said someone
else, “ there is a double ‘ n ’ in ‘ Bennett.’ ”
Mr. Charles Moore, ex-Curator of Sydney
Botanic Gardens, owes the two great “ wrenches ”
of his life to Public Service Boards. Nearly 60
years ago he was happily settled in Dublin as
Botanist to the Ordnance Survey, but the Govt,
there started a Board of Commissioners to reor-
ganise departments, and by the advice of that
Board Mr. Moore’s office was abolished. He soon
afterwards came to Australia, and now again, in
his 76th year, another Board turns him adrift.
“It will be a great wrench to me to leave my
happy home,” he said the other day when the
notice of retirement reached him. Fifty years ago
the same words fell from his lips.
H. : “Melb. Collins-street Independent
Church has just held a Weep Meeting over the
permanent departure for England of Mrs. Be van,
esteemed wife of the pastor, with her family.
Anyone would think the Styx had intervened,
instead of the pastor finding Melb. not good
enough for the education of his offspring. And
let me say, mildly but firmly, despite all dis-
claimers, that Pastor Bevan is going too. He’s
sick of coffee-palaces, and has a strong nostalgia
for Highbury Quadrant. He came at <£3o a week,
but what he gets now, goodness knows—he hardly
does himself.”
The Victorian sculptor, Bertram Macken-
nal’s, Show-Sunday, writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent from London, was crowded by the sort of
people who “ take you up ” and dare not let you
down afterwards. If you are a duffer, so much
the better and easier for you ; but if a genius the
takers-up are contented to point at you as a
growth of their own nurturing. The Australian
showed three busts—two marble and one plaster.
The former, Mrs. Herring and Mrs. Hart, society
dames ; and the latter, Miss Marie Tempest, a
leading actress. Mackennal is recognised as a
“ very coming ” man indeed.
IDYLLIC
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
mjome lover*, roam ’ne&fk beeckerx clumps
In distant land<j ;
Love’s amid tie caUozxge-sfuirjp^
Witk busi| Kandg, .
ofkers on g>ofV carpel*, flop \
Their dainpLj knee*, ;
H cae ? ll Kzsve to do OUR pop
While shelling pea*,
have’nt time to court Ike moon
'€e>r°h% lakes a-rowing-
It take*, us, all our time to "spoon
While we’re a-Koemtf
C?
Ljet the <£irl ’heath beechen clump
be no better,
Ifhan she who the C abt>age- slumps
“If I can get her.
J.E.M.


Score (
4liSrt
/futr <
fcrl
/i‘~ .
p
s %, \
~ far 7
£ L>_
-
Tfef< "/
// \Au(t'talia. y Ctjr x
c !?/ S
Jm,; 7
Dsre i*slf drunts all.fu^r’tir -:vtt
Tri Ship* da.t /ifijf* aC OlcL;
Uh-d fieijss g'ourseif by '
(To njenrj J Crowrjz <}£ -ri-
'Co da rfy G rc '
Han* SreiPna. 7 n X,
r».VDO.S, Thwl.lj M.- John. Mat*#?,
yt.P m t&e c*jorsit of a s-p<“t:U at Lj“»£* laser
nlefcl. sal.! coat t&o w&kji ia4
le*i to tifci <t^pa r ''ti of a milirary *xpo>L~'.tL
ri> ri » Sviiim was ~h* -jttxom; of a bascaz*
Imperial iif>m| "
[St» rf
7 j
Sk€
&
i hd a ‘'^
I SJc* aoy«
;. : - ~^
<M $ Choice
3UHOI\IC Si t r
pcR S,AI E
• J.-.r.-PS ,
I Cf
IjjEC FoB r> w
/7 > *
7>oa bit Iy&yt 5X
j). Bull No//' it jk oj Jfxf'
L Crirrjicn IrreacL K l^ s ’' <x«^J
\. FoaK }°?tjx£CL. rjf "
\
/ %
c^7
Qu.te9jlo.94i Qye_ atiC^
/Q'j. fcr Ttl:sa+j fjJfses sip- o? 1 / rflf !?
'tblCa.f*7x -
A LOOK ROUND.


/fie
e
*v f
mjm
> Tjm/c
would save time, trouble, ansf expense,
eavs His Honor. “If an Act of Parha-
ment could be passed making all mar-
riages by the Rev. Kinsman dissolvable
after two years!” Why limit It to Kins-
man’s yonr Honor-
NORTHIVELBOURNe I
PVC/ce COURT 1
Xm sTn “- r "
-ZJia* o/'esJctVCe
/~Yton .
r , I 9ert»fy for teea bnd ‘refreshers!
or counsel on noth sides, and direct that the
costs of 'the defendants occasioned by the
proofs incidental to the issue udoo which
they have succeeded be taxed by the retris-
trar ; and a*so that the costs of the plaintiff
occasioned by the proofs incidental to the
issue upon which he succeeded be taxed by;
,tTTK,rtfe:!9trar • anti that the costs ot the 1
plaintili' s*nd the verdict of the jury he set offi
Against the costs allowed to tjie defendants,
ant} that judgment and-execution issue for)
the balance as against the defendants or the'
pja.irjtifF. as the case may be. /
gd
Z/mfe* ztrfoA
_ / 2- P
s C<z/«eAj — case jnajS'Je*
‘ *s*«S* «</.
\?c^■■ l r \
X SmA
x — imil/ .j
TORS DAY, JUNE 2, 1896.
To-day brings with it the jubilee
anniversary of J(4« Argus. It is fifty
years ago that the publication of this
journal was commenced. Many are the
battles which 7he Argus has fought and
won, and there are others which we are-
fightings and. which §till have to be
wdti.
-fat ‘
v W?** ;/L
I Vf those dolls igrhicu were sold, the group Queen
Victoria and her familfi prepared by Mrs.
*Blenkiron, realised the highest price, £1 10a,
being bid for \t ; and it was announced thatj
Lord Eraaaey waa the purgha*e».
MELBOURNE MATTERS


[y| ELACH R I N O v ,
v — Cigarettes.
M. MELACHRIXO & CO.,
CAIRO,
Largest Manufacturers of the
Best Egyptian Cigarettes.
Supplied to over 200 London Clube and
Regimental Messes.
Sand Made. Absolutely Pure.
To be had from all Leading Tobacconists.
CaledonianLiqueurWliiskr
W
mil-
MVWu’i
-ill
fra
"I
!lllM|IIIIIIIH>T. , llllll!llh.,!i
w /
'ill.
&£&3MUIW
&
in’
•;*!
.III!'
fli
..fill*
y
‘M'ZrrtV’ ‘llll.lillHilllll
L'7't .*■ WHHHPIHfIIINt
i.ii;
A
r^'ir:
«moi9
mi:
PpH
.1:1!:
mm
ImUftiHJli
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
C.I ARANTEKD SPEEXDID CONDITION.
Boeder aud Shipps m ** Wor , d
W Agent, SYDNEY.
LOMBARDIA,
the great pile specific
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
tr y> n S' other so-called Remedies you
should a* k. vour Chemist or Storekeejter for a
tot of Lombardia. and take no other. Only ONE
Trial is asked.
PRICE to. all Chemists and Storekeepers.
**' McDonald. Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Geographical politics. X.S.W. is badly
off for navigable rivers, and worse off for navigable
roads.
X.S.W. Leg. Council has let the Home-
stead Selection and Settlement Leases Bill slide
down the toboggan of a no-quorum count-out.
It will be a piece of luck or pluck if the Bill is
heard of again this session. Bat Man sleeps on
business principles.
The English Bar—acting in its own inte-
rests, of course—has prohibited sons of Judges
from practising as barristers before their fathers.
Australian Bars are all too frightened of the
fathers to follow suit; but, with this precedent
added to the conclusive existing case. The Bulle-
tin hopes to see Parliamentarv action taken at
once.
W. M‘Millan, M.L.A.. is, an observant
politician opines, making a bee-line for X.S.W.
Agent-Generalship. A troublesome thorn in the
ades of all par ties, all will conspire to shelve him.
The Speakership was not a Protectionist gift to
Joe Abbott. The Freetraders were eqnallv glad
to lock him up. And such, when the vacancv falls
in, may be the story of M'Millan.
The Argus, which never tires of condemn-
ing the justice of the tax on Land \ alues, prints
on its jubilee a facsimile of its first issue (June 2,
1846 which contains a host of Govt, advts. of sales
of land in the nearer suburbs of Melbourne at
upset prices of usually less than JE6 per acre. The
expression, “Waum chain of ponds,' 5 in this fac-
simile calls to mind the almost forgotten fact that
" Moonee Ponds is an abbreviation of the
'• Moonee Moonee Chain of Ponds 55 of Fawkners
day.
The Q. revenue, according to Govt, re-
turns, is advancing by leaps and bounds, and
that province (so Ministers assert) is the most
solvent of the group. Such being the case, one
can scarcely understand the cheese-paring economy
by which, in some districts, the whole of the male
adult aboriginal population has been deprived of
its customary dole of one shoddy blanket per
annum. Xo wonder Q. niggers are vowing, to
the amusement of Xorthern humorists, “Me go
longa Labor-party. 55
A Sydney daily newspaper, feeling itself
in the place where it must speak the truth, has
twice tried to sound in its leading columns the
correct note on the Parkes Parliamentarv
Grant question. In the first instance, it with-
drew the article at the eleventh hour and substi-
tuted a rigmarole on foreign politics, and in the
second instance it hung up the “revise” and
handed over to the printers a stock article on pump-
kins or something. So the public are still with-
out that “ correot ” note.
X. bee-keepers have apparently onlv
just awakened to the fact that the wholesale
destruction of the country's timber-producing
trees is using up its natural sources of honey.
Lands ' Carruthers has argued the matter fur-
ther —Kill trees, abolish honev; abolish honey
destroy honey-feeding birds; extinguish honey-
feeding birds i also insectivorous ), and vou breed
the various kinds of bugs and things that eat up
Hie vines, orchards, crops, &c. So that a new
Ringbarking, <fcc.. Act may be looked for.
A pretty constitutional question is being
mooted re the effect of the Federal Council’s legis-
lation on provinces joining the concern after the
passing of the legislation. The Act re judgments
pa?>cd in b 6, and South Australia joined in
88, so it would appear that, as S.A. could not
have “referred’ the Act to the Council, and, as
it has not apparently expressly adopted it, this,
■which is one of the few useful Federal Acts
passed, is not in force in South Australia.
Another instance of the parlous state of the law
regarding interprovincial judgments.
Queensland is fortunate in owning a half-
dozen Radical journalists, full of energy and
enthusiasm, who have dotted the province with
half-a-dozen little journals ever on the alert to
expose the plots of Boodlewraith. And these
lively little local papers—self-supported—are be-
ginning to cut into the prestige of the subsidised
Brisbane V\ orker, which is a well-meaning organ,
but far too dull. By the same token, workers up
North and Centre are beginning to resent Brisbane
domination, however gentle, and are inclined to
treat with the metropolis rather as allies than as
subjects.
Melbourne Metropolitan Fitzgibbon Board
°f Works has one graceful way of evading its own
minimum-wage clause. Said clause provides that
a certain wage shall be paid on all contracts for
“manufacturing” goods for the Board, but it
doesn t come in when the contract is simply for
“ supplying " goods. When the Board called for
tenders for the manufacture of drain-pipes the
contractor had to at least make a pretence of pay-
ing the minimum-wage. Now it simply calls for
the “ supply ” of the same articles, and the wage-
question doesn't come in at all. A beautifully -
delicate distinction.
Dear Bulletin. —Copeland quotes “Alton
Locke, and does not know the authors name!
Copeland aspires to be the leader of X.S.W. Pro-
tectionist party ! Give us in preference, say,
Chumpkins, -Jones, Bill Smith, of Gone Bung
Gully, or anyone who will give us semi-illiteracy
without pretentiousness. Dibbs did read some-
times—Lyne does by proxy—Copeland (like Reid)
never reads. A reader, as everyone knows, is not
necessarily a thinker, but the man who never reads
rarely thinks. Let the Freetraders have a mono-
poly of the non-reading and non-thinking leader-
ship.—" Fours, Splittem.
Sydney D.T. :
There is intrinsically no difference between adding a
pound sterling to a man's grocery or drapers' bill and de-
ducting the same amount from the money that he has to
pay it with.
The Freetrader forgets that his policy shuts “ a
man” (the factor in this argument) out of work,
and causes him to have no money at all and no
chance of getting any honestly. No money, no
grocery-bill. And you can't deduct a pound from
nothing. There is a big intrinsic and practical
difference between the addition and the reduction
here. The D.T. merely states a false equation.
Dear Bulletin, —The conservation of the
people's park is a brave cry now that the extension
of Sydney city railway is again hotly discussed.
Curiously, the private capitalist and land-and-
house-owner, willing to surrender space for a
route, stand side by side with the green-in-his-eye
patriot at this particular juncture. And still
another band of conjurors started last week to
whisper into the long ear of the same green-in-the-
eye patriot that Government House and grounds
should be resumed for a depot, and a residence in
lieu be provided for the Governor in one or other
of the suburbs. Just so. In Carington's day
three of these suburban properties were placed
under offer to Government, and a couple of per-
sons, believing trade would take place, went bank-
rupt in their haste to become middlemen. Fully
a dozen owners of “ spacious grounds ” are now so
desirous of accommodating the Governor, that the
cry for resuming his present residence promises to
become a boisterous element in the railway-exten-
sion discussion. —M.
Sydney D.T.,
in a leader, asks
the shopmen who
want short - hour
legislation why
they don’t secure
the eight - hour
boon for them-
selves, “as others
have done, by
making it a rule
to work no longer
except as over-
time ? ” One rea-
son is that of all
employes the shop-
man is the easiest
to replace ; if he
struck, the Tras-
co. chairman, who
also chairmans
Sydney D. T.,
would no doubt
laugh at him for
a chuckle-headed
idiot. Also, the
mere fact of be-
ing a shopman—
of having to be
civil to people who
insult him and
whom he reallv
ought to be in a
position to kick—
wears out a man’s
soul and makes
his spine into
jelly. “ Bom a
man, died a gro-
cer,” is as true in
Australia as in
France.
When the SVS.W. “God-fearing Ministry "
meets m Cabinet CoL Secretary Brunker holds
out his right hand to each with : “ How do von
do, Brother Cook? How is the Light, brother ?
How do you do, Brother Garrard ? Has vour soul
nad a restful time? How do you do. Brother
"“V - A , h -. « 15 a glorious privilege to rest on a
sure foundation, is it not? How' do vou do
Brother Young? Are you at peace? How do vou do’
Brother Carruthers'' Has your sou] prospered since
I saw you ? How do you do, my precious Brother
Reid 1 Is the Great Protectum with you Then
Reid says Amen in foreign lingo, and Dr. Garran
opens up with prayer. But it is always Jack
Want who pronounces the Benediction —in
Japanee.
Up to date Premier Reid has given half-
promises that he will do something to temper the
horrors of Freetrade to the N.S.W. cement indus-
try ; that he will try to let the sugar industry
down easy ; that be will coddle the agricultural
indt-try by carroing local produce by rail at re-
duoed rates (which, as the present rates are barely
payable, means subsidising it at the expense of the
taxpayer); that he will subsidise the iron indus-
try by bonuses ; and that he trill give the Govern-
ment clothing-contracts to local firms at living-
wage rates, which means spending public money
to assist the local clothing industry, contrary to
AT THE EASTER SHOW”
ANGRY HORSE-WOMAN (to judge): “Tin going to compete no more — that’s certain. You’re
better [?]tted to judge pigs than to judge lydies. That woman—why, she rode with her
knee in her mouth !”
THE JUDGE : Pardon me, Madame — but we aren’t looking at the lady’s legs !”
the Freetrade maxim of buying in the cheapest
market. Premier Reid is getting nearer to abso-
lute Freetrade than any of his predecessors, but
even he seems unable to definitely arrive there.
There appears to be a flaw in the Vic.
Constitution Amendment Act which would
occasion a serious disfranchisement- if a-n unscrupu-
lous Conservative Government were in power.
There is a provision which keeps the old electoral-
rolls in force after they have nominaflv become
obsolete up to the meeting of the Revision
Courts (a period of about two months), but no
provision keeping the electors’ rights in force. A
sudden dissolution with elections in Januarv
would, if this view be correct, disfranchise all the
manhood-suffrage electors in the countrv. This
should be seen to in the forthcoming amendment
of the Purification of Rolls Aet.
W.J.W. writes from Ballarat :
Editor Billist-ls. Your quotation : *■ Women won’t use
the vote if they get it,” can be set down as true of the
vast German women population of South Australia ■ it
could be added that those German women don’t want’it
Their whole time is taken up by work in house, farm, and
vineyard ; politics are an unknown quantity in their lives.
They represent in Australia what are called “ bondagere ”
m Scotland : women strong as elephants who harvest
hoe turnips, turn the chaff-cutter, arc., and are i oily as
sandboys with it aII—W.G.W. 3 - **
This item recalls to the present writer that last
time he passed through the Wimmera district he
saw German women following the plough in Wel-
lington boots while Hans and Gustave sat on the
fence and smoked.
A Bulletin correspondent :
Editor Cur-now, of S.M. Hse_vld. prints a little para-
graph stating the legal fees paid for the Dean ConSiis-
carefully omits to mention in the paragraph
that the astounding- sum of £7» was paid to hiTCm
apparently about six weeks’ work as
hand-writer ,< the Commission only endured' about six
weeks). It is suggested, indeed, that the preciTof
dence, for making which Mr. Curnow, ir., drew£3Xs
more or done after the Commission had
*>■its earthly use isfi’VaptSrenf
By the way, it is also stated that Mr. Curnow ir (who
closely related to Chief Sea Brunker. who
° r le =? 61 things in connection with Commission
shorthand-writers and their salaries) received a larve sum
SSSSrre» “3
the better when it is rehmmbereHbS
and Bay
Melbourne telegraph-posts are plastered
over with bijj£ r>rijfessin? Uj si ,* * ‘ ed
, ... ~ . r > persons
; ’ . |f: ' igar-makers now on strike,
These bills advise the use of the “boycott” to
sympathisers, and are possibly, in the legal gen
libellous. The manufacturers interested are loot’
mg about for m«ins to check the move, butth e
w .’ ** :on r w and are - Conspiracy
bbel civil or criminal, the re
ttn . ct ) ve Jurisdiction of the courts, actions for
interference with rights, &c., are all
talked If criminal libel determined on
'™ become duty of the son-in-law of one of
manufacturers to determine, on behalf of the
Crown, whether a presentment shall be filed, and
m accordance with the usage in such cases, to
1611186 *° me
A Maorilander on the Darling Downs •
“I found millions of acres of magnificent land
closed with
wire fences for
sheep. Bu t
where were
the settlers ?
Hidden in
thick scrubs;
perched on in-
accessible hill-
sides; cut off
from all de-
cent means of
c ommunica-
tion.”
The Tic. Crown Law Department has no
rival in the art of how not to do it. The Rapi-
port-Baxter fiasco is the latest tribute to the
Department s genius, which was already proved
by the Mercantile Bank case. Daviess nolle
prosequi was simply an annihilation of C.L.D.
work by the Crown'sown Attorney-General. The
next attempt to bring Matthew to trial ended
in a quashing of the Crown’s grand-jury decision.
Anon, when the sundry Mercantile Bankers had
been brought to trial by a private prosecution, the
Crown stepped in. took control of the case, and
ignominiously lost it in a maze of objections and
overridings. Away further back there was the
Imperial Bank case, a famous instance of small
men being nabbed whilst bigger men escaped
prosecution. Likewise—but, no matter. The
Victorian C.L.D. doesn't want The Bulletin, or
or any o h-r journal, to enlarge upon its merits.
Apparently the Victorian revenue will be
£300,000 less than was anticipated, which
tnat the old deficit won’t be reduced after all, and
that by tough eeonomy ends may just aboutstoeet,
or again they may not. The drought ruined the
grain -carrying trade, and this alone made nearly
5£200.000 less railway revenue. The abolition of
the primage duties meant a loss of .£30,000. Some
riotous alterations which the Assembly insisted on
making in the tariff caused a further loss of
revenue; and the rich men have been, on the
whole, very healthy, so the probate duties have
been lamentably small. The trouble might have
been got over, after Premier Reid’s fashion, by
charging a lot of the ordinary public works expen-
diture to loan funds, but this hasn’t been done,
so the usual Vic. deficit may again be heard of.
Consequently, the Turner Government is believed
to be pondering further taxation, and the Council
is sharpening its teeth on the grindstone in antici-
pation.
The Vic. Government has decided, after
innumerable boring experiments, that in 16,600
square miles of the mallee country —about one-
fourth of the entire province—there is no artesian
water whatever. The soil is porous, and most of
the rivers are absorbed before they get to any-
where in particular. • Some of the lakes are salt
and shallow ; the rest are fresh and shallow ; and
all of them dry up on the shortest notice. It is
reckoned that all this vast district will require to
be irrigated, at a cost of about .£1,000.000 or
more, betare it will be inhabitable to any extent
worth mentioning; and there is so very little to
irrigate with that the project bristles with diffi-
culties. There is room for some heroic engineer-
ing about the mallee lands. Possibly when thingß
are so much improved that artesian wells can be
sunk a distance of six or eight miles engineers
may come on deposits of fresh water that will put
an entirely new complexion on things. If they
don’t, the next best hope is that the art of rain-
making mav yet be discovered. And. failing that,
the time will yet arrive when the Murray and its
tributaries will have to be used entirely for irri-
gating the dry lands of Victoria, X.S.W., and
and navigation will be shut down upon
altogether, and Australia's one big river will never
reach the sea at all.
HUNGRY-AND COLD
I Jj’S
I ‘ jj& d°es t/oIC v/isfj fycr lighter,
’ Tor Were simply apd bor?C
. hfecL c*re to bite 4
she whispers,pesttupg Ipear,
you really jpot bite rny€Ar. .
l/poi? I715 kqez 770 rrjoro
To pytjdte and bin?,
We»gfyt, U^fer tfjAr; of
gF U/oojd dreadfully oppre55 b'"?'
njany a ye*r
attacked b/tr eflr.
EDHUND FISHER


fg
<3-0 TO H ZELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for is. (id
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin &. (Jo.),
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Hannam and Co., whose water-heaters are
among the simplest, most economical and service-
able requirements of a household, have removed
to 148 Pitt-street, near King-street, Sydney—a
fine central position which should suit the firm as
well as the whole circle of the population. All
that needs learning about the working of a water-
heater can be learnt either by a minute’s inspec-
tion at 148 Pitt-street, or by looking over the
illustrated catalogue (post free). The water-heater
is prized by everyone who uses one; it raises the
temperature of winter water to 155° in two
minutes. Sir G. R. Dibbs says: “Hannam’s
water-heater is a very useful addition to the bath-
room ; no family should be without one.” Mr.
Badgery, of Messrs. Pitt, Son and Badgery, says :
“I do not know of anything which adds so much
to the comfort of a family as Hannam’s water-
heater does.”*
Visits to the dentist are, even at this
enlightened day, associated in most minds with
harrowing experiences. The victim of the irre-
pressible molar has still fearsome thoughts of being
yanked about a room at the end of a pair of tongs,
at the other extremity of which is a perspiring
but muscular toothsmith. That was how things
used to be, but a great change has come over the
business of late years. U nder the new and perfect
system adopted by the London Dental Institute
(of 98 King-street. Sydney) the operation is utterly
painless. In fact, it is rather a pleasure than
otherwise. Also in the bad old days fabulous
sums had to be paid to the bunglers who laid your
mouth up for alterations and repairs for a period
ranging from six months to the term of your
natural life. The London Dental Institute
charges rates the moderation of which can only
be gauged by paying them. The operators
employed are all armed with diplomas which are a
guarantee in themselves that all work performed
will be of a perfect and permanent nature. All
artificial teeth supplied are admitted to be of a
description to cause natural ones to turn green
with enyy, and are guaranteed for five years.
Also, a medical officer is attached to the staff.
Th ese and innumerable other advantages should
be borne in mind by the ache-racked client whose
tooth has gone to wreck, and whose molar has
departed.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
Premier Reid’s latest idea is that N.S.W.
should be—noble ideal ? —a great pig - breeding
country.
BUCKLEY & UUNN Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
' X
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
CARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “Victoria” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ ... ... ... *1« and *2l
LADIES’ *lB and * 3l
Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 1896 im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
MIND
YOU GET
WOLFE’S
The Only
REAL
SCHNAPPS.
Change your mind.
Next time try
MARK FOY’S,
whose goods are delivered free all over Sunny New South Wales
BY RAIL AND BOAT.
Sit down and write for list of prices.
’Twill be many a long year before you change your mind again.
Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Great Emporium.
The Colossal and Artistic Show of Australasia.
Universally Renowned as the Great English Cash Trading Firm.
in Full Swing' under the Freetrade Banner of New South Wales.
“ Cash is the life, the crown of trade, for all that’s good, for all that’s made. Then
Its voice is loudest ’midst the throng ; its music grandest in the song ; its banner
Then, buy for cash, all who would share cheapest and best for look and wear.
*- t-U/i Villi • Ita rvr ntf n ** TT rmTQ rd on to ard a trill
highest up the hill; its motto “ Upward, onward still.
The Comprehensive Character, the Elegance, Variety, and Extent of Our Stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, DIAMONDS, SILVERWARE, and
SPECIALTIES have never been approached. Our Establishment is a complete Constellation of Brilliancy, and a Panorama of Artistic Sho .
Prices saving to every Purchaser from Six to Eight Shillings in the Pound.
Watches at Freetrade Prices.
Our Own Make, 0 ( World-Wide Repute, £2l* .£3, J-1U S ’X ££?£ t I'lS.
to i?i(S o"L^. r ? 18“ gJdSKi?M2.MeTfS kt ton guinr’ ditto, XI !oe, never eqSalledf Solid, eutotantial and reliable. Every watch a werk o, art.
Gold Jewellery at Freetrade Prices.
t M q of . r-nUI Brooches 10s 6d to 30s. Highest grades, 30s to .£lO, thousands to select from, all the very pick of London, latest designs; Gold
Elegant Gold Brooches, all prices, 5s 6d to 12s6d. Gem e ge c h ha : n Curb B j any pr i ce f from 30s to £8 10s ; Ladies’ Gem Rings, in new designs, from 10s 6d to £5 ; Wedding and
Bangles and Bracelets, every Sd Neck Chains?elegant variety, from 4s 6d to 25s ; Locket ditto, Long Muff Chains, Pencil Cases, Fob Chains, Sovereign Purses, Links,
St e ud P s! r and n p B ins 8 , P aTaby V rin U th in variety and display, and at prices to suit every purchaser.
Diamonds at Freetrade Prices.
„ , . . ~, nnlv Ladies’ Half-Hoop Rings in variety and value, no equal prices, £5 5s to £5O; Gent’s Single-stone ditto £4 4s to £100; Stars, Tiaras, Necklets,
The Whitest and Brightest of d Bracelets from £lO to £100; Flies, Crescents, Sprays, Heart Pendants, etc., the finest assortment in Australasia.
Pins, and Studs at all prices ; uiamonu.
Silverware at Freetrade Prices.
+■ ... At- least Five Thousand Articles to select from. Toilet Brushes, Hand Mirrors, Scent and Salt Bottles, Powder Boxes, Trinket Boxes,
Everything that is New just landed ex mafi steame . Candlesticks, Napkin Rings, Button Hooks, Glove Stretchers, Thimbles, Match Boxes, etc. Visit our Establishment, outside or
ISld eVOTywhewaJik. yon TriUfind the ctouwuter and newness of toe article o» exhibit - PAR EXCELLENCE."
Electro-plate at Freetrade Prices.
A . . ~. oVwvqH of nil cnmnetitors The Novelty, Variety and Character of our Stock embrace everything worth looking for, our London
In this Department for valno we stand alone, ”ght a y A wa j£ thr h O * T saloons will bring under the notice of those who so favor us hundreds upon hundreds of New Elegant Articles of
House securing for us the very pick or every reuau • fQr sents In this Department our Prices will be found in many instances one-half that usually chargad.
the very best make at all prices from os oa io -svs, u
. . » ~ . 7Q will nftV vou to wr ite to us. Whether you live in New South Wales or otherwise, it will pay you to visit us, and also interest you to view
If you are a Buyer of anything In the “ ®* devoted to our line of business, containing the Grandest Exhibition and Variety of Stock ever brought together. Everything New, Everythin*
the Finest Establishment probably in the uern ® V*" 1 *
Elegant. Everything at Prices which no competition can come near. .
Illustrated Pamphlet, Post Free. Goods Forwarded (Duty and Carriage Paid) to any part of Australasia.
HT E WART I) A \VSOX & CO.,
412 Georae-street, and Strand , Sydney, New South Wales .
Henry Lawson’s book of collected verses,
containing all his best Bulletin poems, may be
had post-free from this office for 5s. 5d. in stamps
or postal-notes of any province.
Adelaide epitaphs “ Newhaven ” Symonds,
assistant to Deputy Surveyor-General Light in
laying-off that city in ’37. With him dies a wealth
of early reminiscence, for he, of the few old hands,
had the memory that could revive in graphic de-
scriptions the early scenes and struggles of S.A.’s
pioneers. Symonds’s little canker was his failure
to realise a fortune out of Newhaven, the proposed
township he laid out at North Arm, Port Adelaide
way. He was a generation or two in advance of
his time.


'■ioo > 000 SHARES OF £i EACH./
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
M BUM SoHn FREEpOLD
A
sth Prize—£4,Boo.
273 Prizes
REGISTERED ADDRESS—
“tattersall;
care of George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.
Please, allot me Shares in your
GREAT PEOPERTY DISTRIBUTION. 100,000 at 20/-
Name
Address
.
Bth Prize—£3,soo.
Each Subscriber will have a chance of 16 prizes.
'■
~~
..
:■:•■■ HSWjpiSHp
The FIRST PRIZE consists of BOTH ot these Fine Properties
*
-
11l
Large Warehouse—George Street.
FIRST PRIZE
Two Splendid Brick Stores—Kent Street.
Value £28,500.
List positively closes 30th June, 1896.
.
.
w*. 7*
3rd Prize—£ 14,500.
—r>
7th Prize—£3,soo.
mmm
4th Prize—£6,soo.
df
100,000 Shares
of £i Each.
gd
Address—
“ TATTERSALL,”
o/o GEOKGE ADAMS,
HOBART. TASMANIA.
r


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £K.000,000
Paid-up £3,055,*81 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
iNsrECToRs: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M’Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsrjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
_THE— ~
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, 60 Market Street.
Cable Address— Kiemseil.
Code— MOREiNG & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 337, G.P.O.
GlsljtJslg & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
STOCK 4. SHAREBROKERS,
Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide
(Late Australasia Chambers, King William St.).
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks. Special attention given to business in Bank
Deposit Receipts.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales:
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920 009.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS since commencement of the
Society exceeds
Twenty-two Millions sterling (£22,460,000)
Being an average of over a MILLION for each year of its
T. JAQUES MARTIN, General Manager.
Business Announcements
Org’aais
By STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
for Church, School and Parlor.
Pianos
By E. KRAUSS, GERHARD ADAM,
etc., etc.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS
By REYNOLDS & CO.
E. BESSON & CO.
Violins,
BOWS, STRINGS, and all kinds of
fittings.
Accor t! eons,
CONCERTINAS, MOUTH ORGANS,
BANJOS, GUITARS, MANDOLINES,
and all kinds of Musical Instruments and
Fittings.
Wholesale Warehouse :
A. P. SYKES
(Late Philip P. Samuel & Co.),
227 Little Collms-st., Melbourne.
Price Lists on application.
y'CCf Ac
<
r/IHE E. C. JOHNSTON SELE-HASTE R
j LUBRICATOR a STRAINER LATENT.
Your troubles are ended in the kitchen at last, for by
using this baster over game, poultry, and all roast joints,
the natural juices are kept intact, and a result attained
that will astonish the greatest ejrirurr. Inexpensive,
easily cleansed, durable, and REQUIRES NO WATCHING.
AT ALL IRONMONGERS.
The baster fits inside the baking dish—any size made to
fit. FOR ALL OVENS TO ORDER. Stock sizes—
-0 1 2 3 4 N.B. —Keep the holes lr
2 - 2/(i: 3-s 30; 4 . both tins clear. Address :
The MANAGER, BASTER FACTORY,
No. 9 Addison-road, Marrickville.
THE LAST OF SIX.”
Taken as Cash, all over the World.
The Cheq ue Bank Limited, London.
CAPITAL, £,500,000.
Established over 20 Years.
CHEQUE HANK CHEQUES:
Travellers’ Drafts.
Circular Notes.
Money Orders.
FOR REMITTANCE OF MONEY to all parts of the World, are CHEAPER, and have
innumerable advantages over Ordinary Money Orders.
FOR TRAVELLERS the most convenient form of carrying money, and the most useful
Circular Notes.
CASHED by upwards of 20,000 Banks all over the World, and by over 2200 Banks in
Great Britain.
SYDNEY AGENCY:
56 Pitt Street (near Brldge-st.)
Handbooks and all Information on Application.
JAMES IYrAi.COSL.IVi:,
Genera! I gent for .1 listralasia.
Tlie Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd.
INCORPORATE Is7o.
Directors :
Hon. G. THORNTON, M.L.C.
(Chairman.)
Dr. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., J.P.
Hon. F. B. SUTTOR.
gd
ii ml rr I In- rompaulc.M
Act, ISltO.
CHIRP OFFICE TN NEW 80CTH
WALKS:
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES.
STRICTLY MUTUAL. ALL PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURRENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditions Liberal. Security XJ" ncloubted.
.T. M. M‘CRAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
EVERYONE INTERESTED IN PHOTOGRAPHY
Is invited to visit our Large, New and Centrally-situated Premises, 66 KING STREET (near George-
street), comprising Five Flats, or to write for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of over 200
PAGES, which we post free on application. We keep the most Modern and Complete Stock of
** Photographic Materials**
And compete in Prices with any Souse in Australia.
We cheerfully give information and pay every attention to our Customers. Correspondence invited
from Local, Country, and Intercolonial Photographers. WE ARE HEADQUARTERS FOR
THE
POCKET
PRICE 21s,
Loaded for Twelve Exposures.
f
KODAK.
EXTRA EXPOSURES
1/6 per Roll of 12.
YOU PRESS TiiE BUTTON—WE DO THE REST.
Proprietors of The Australian Photographic Journal, illustrated, price 4d., now in its fifth year. The oldest
and only Photographic Magazine entirely edited and printed in Australia. It contains the latest and most valuable
information, and no photographer should be without it.
HARRIN6TON & CO., LIMITEP.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL MERCHANTS, 66 King Street (near George-st.), SYDNEY.
THE GOLD KING AMALGAMATOR.
\
No. 0 Hand-power ; Capacity, per Hour; Shipping weight, 2501 b.
Freight to Sydney, £i. Price free on board steamer at San Francisco, <£4B.
No. 1, for 5-head stamps ; price f.o.b steamer San Francisco, £B9.
HUNDREDS OF THESE MACHINES
"Working in California alone saves everything capable of amalgamation, either
from Batteries, Old Tailings, Black or Beach Sands, etc.
No Battery should
be without one.
&3T Send for Illustrated
Pamphlets with details
of these machines; also of
A Pump accompanies this size ; works with machine.
. . ficrrall’s NydraOlic Qtiartz tyill. . .
The Fastest Crusher in the World.
A. G. MITCHELL & CO., H 8 The Strand, SYDNEY.
SO EE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar
Proprietor.
HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
Private Boarding Establishment.
(Within Three Minutes of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONfor Visitors. SPECIAL
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
fW Poverty Pointers -
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Kesorts, &c.
Tankard’s Family Hotel,
Lonsdale Street
(next Law Courts),
a....
- " c-
MELBOURNE
Under New Management. First-class BOARD and
RESIDENCE, £1 per week (Single Room); 4s. daily.
W L. NEALE, Manager.
PH IL LI PS’S TEMPEBA N C E HO TEL,
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
DIKIJtOI ItNE.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from 18s. per week upwards.
GREENBAUM’S
Cucumber Juice Skin Tonic
Softens, Whitens and Smoothes the Skin.
“Send for Samples Free.”
SOLE AGENT: JL. _A_-
Hairdresser and Perfumer ,
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
YOUNG
AND OLD
MEN
If you are discouraged by the failure of cure-alls and
unskilled treatment, consult the eminent specialist,
Dr. Walsh, L.R.C.P. & S., Ed., a legally qualified
and registered physician, who guarantees to cure
each and every case he undertakes.
| No Stomach Drugging |
Consultation and Diagnosis free.
“THE BRIGHT SIDE”
A valuable
illustrated
medical work on brain and nerve exhaustion
and its cure, by Dr. Walsh, sent sealed—six stamps.
All communications confidential.
Address : DR. G. WALSH, 51 Hunter St., Sydney.
Dr. George On Lee,
CHINESE DOCTOR,
23 Carlton Terrace, Wynyard Sqtiare, Sydney.
All persons suffering from any internal diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have them dispersed
by medicine without cutting ; also cures bad eyes, fits,
skin diseases, diphtheria and piles. He asks no questions,
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs his
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise. Has
practised 26 years in Sydney. Cunsultation fee, 10s. 6d.
fW~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, fc®'" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
G 4 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK an.)
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Z aland Government .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
The national bank of Austra-
lasia Ltd.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000
Capital Paid-up .. £1,588,760 1 1
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. 161,239 18 11
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. .. 750,000 0 0
— 2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Chairman, Hon. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Vice-Chairman, A. S. King, Esq. John Grice, Esc.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Auditors: W. H. Tuekett, Esq.;
Andrew Bums, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grev
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Arjdi -on. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. VV. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia .Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local D‘r.*n-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital £3,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital 1,928,380 0 0
Reserved Fund .. .. .. .. 1,183,576 12 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Robert C. Close, Esq.
Thomas Cadell, Esq
James T. Walker, Esq
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Ofllcc—Old ICrond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the Ei-it,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
| its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
j on debentures; and invests money on theirbehalf in public
1 securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary bankin ;
| business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and Aineric •,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
The Universal Land <£ Deposit Bank
LIMITED.
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Incorporated under Companies Act of 1874.
Fixed Deposits received at 5 per cent, per
a li u ii ill.
All business arising out of Real Estate transacted.
This Company Never Suspended Payment or Re-
constructed in anv way since its formation.
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON, Managing Director.
The Trustees, Executors, <£* Ayeney
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £43,733 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
inan ; R. Murray Smith, Es p, C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. I
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estates undertaken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CLARKE & CO.,
STOCK & SHARE BROKERS,
309 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone No. 311. Melbourne.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office-Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £366,353
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 300,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 30,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLERBAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS
Lewis Levy, Manager.


2^
AS*
0$:
v^°
>»
to
It is now known what Salomons talked to
the Pope about: the confessional.
Copies of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp
on “ Piles and How to Cure Them,” without
operation, by the great “Cannalin” treatment,
free on application. Depot for Australasia, 257
George Street, Sydney.*
The ordinary business man’s most critical
difficulty just now is how to get his money in. In
the recovery of debts, especially in circumstances
of difficulty or delicacy, Holdsworth & Co., 101
Swanston-street, Melbourne, meet with singular
success.*
The case of Austin Kirby, the Maoriland
detective who absconded from his bail on a black-
mailing charge, isn’t calculated to make the
Sydney force feel “good.” Kirby apparently
stowed himself away in a big packing-case on
board the Talune, and though the vessel was
searched on arrival and officers remained on board
while the cargo was being discharged, he peace-
fully stepped off into space. It was only ascer-
tained that he had been in the packing-case
because the name of a suspected accomplice was
Erin ted on it, and inside it the lamentable accused
ad left a bag of biscuits, two loaves, two bottles
of water, and a bank-draft with his name on it.
Then, instead of lighting out for Thargomindah,
Kirby resolved to double back to Maoriland per
the next steamer, and the Sydney detectives
ably discovered his scheme because a wharf-
laborer tramped up to the office and told
them about it ; and when they got down
to the vessel they identified their prisoner
partly by a malformation of the hand, and partly
by his extraordinary height. When somebody
doesn’t walk right into the detective office with
the address of the wanted person, then the force
simply plods around in its regulation boots with a
noticeable air of not wanting to attract attention,
and asks questions in a loud whisper at three-
penny and other pubs. His obtrusive unobtru-
siveness is sufficient in itself to giye the ’tec away
most times.
Awarded
Gold Medal,
gd
Chicago,
1893.
COLEMANE A SONS, Ltd.,
WORLD FAMED
Eucalypte Extract
CUIIES
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Consumption, Influenza, &c., &c.
ASK FOR
Cole mane <£• Sons’ Eucalypte,
And SEE that you GET IT.
SOLD EVERYWHERE —Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
KRAWLIN, near COOTAMUNDRA, N.S.W.
THE
BoticicaOlt Testirpooial.
Ladies and Gentlemen desirous of subscribing
to the above Fund will please be good enough to
forward their subscriptions on or before the 17th
inst., to the Treasurer,
Mr. A. HOFFNUNG,
The Australia Hotel.
BENNETT * WOOD,
New Address: 397 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for
“Rover,” “Rapid” and “Hudson” Cycles
Lists Free. Machines on Terms.
Houses and Land for Sale.
■RUY before the Boom at MANLY! Rival
Ferry Companies have Amalgamated ! Building
Lots only £8 each ; 10s. Cash, ss. Monthly. No interest.
Free Deeds. Plans post free from E. C. V. BROUGHTON
250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. When writing please mention
this paper.
A WONDERFUL
INVENTION!
H ANN AM’S PATENT
WAT€R-N€AT€R
MW
A HOT BATH
—FOR—
A HANDFUL OF
CHIPS.
Price, £2.
HANNAM CO.,
148 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CHARLES WESTBROOK
116 Pitt Street, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Original Cash Fielder.
-Y
•Hk,
ommissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughout,
the World.
STARTING PRICE—2O to 1 Limit on all Horse races.
Telegraphic Code — “Westbrook, Sydney." Telephon
No. 1542.
t
PE
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there ar •
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at i.i
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 5t
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. ELLIS.
These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam of Copaiba, Oubebs or In-
jections and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
out inconvenienoe. i
Sold by all Druggists.'
Wholesale Agents: -
Elliott Bros. & Co./
and *.
Australian Drug Co.
»
Each Capsule ts
Stamped “ MILtX.”
x
■
NEW BOSTEDO BICYCLE.
Morgan & Wright Tyres; Guaranteed One Year.
CASH PRICE only £2O.
Fisher & Lingham, Sole Importers, Vic. Arcade, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Maximilian schmidt, eldest son of
late Dr. Schmidt, Clunes, write brother
Albert, Cairns, Q.
JOHN FREDERICK V. Send address
home. Important. K.V.D.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Prince of Wales Avon the Derby with Per-
simmon, “ hot pot” St. Frusquin, owned by Leopold de
Rothschild, finishing second, and it goes without saying
that “the first person to congratulate H.R.H. on his
popular victory ” was the loyal subject aforesaid. Also,
it is possible that the owner, trainer, and jockey of St.
Frusquin winked their other eyes at one another, whilst
Albert Edward was acknowledging the greasj' plaudits of
the multitude. Persimmon may have won the Derby on
its solid merits, for the race was the fastest on record.
On the other hand, Rothschild is very rich and exceed-
ingly devoted to the Royal Family. And the natural
feelings of the horse must be taken into consideration.
When it came to a question of blasting Albert Edward’s
hopes, or making the Heir Apparent truly happy, St.
Frusquin hesitated and was lost —The Bulletin suspects.
* » * *
Persimmon, by St. Simon —Perdita 11, is so
neatly named that “Wales” surely can’t have christened
it. Per, the first syllable of the dam’s name, also Latin
for “ by” ; Simmon, for Simon, in cockney dialect. Per-
simmon, a handsome fruit. Good enough to take first
prize in a nomenclature competition.
* * * *
Jockey Watts has his reward. After making
up his mind to retire on a handsome fortune, he was per-
suaded to put in another season of self-denial for the sake
of Persimmon’s Derby chance, and he squeezed the ’orse
home by a neck. Whereupon Watts, presenting his
saddle and bridle to the Coming K., should have sworn
off riding for evermore. An opportunity for a gaudy
exit.
* * * »
Penciller Sam Allen got a second-hand sort of
reply from Tummy Wales’s private-secretary, in reply to
his Derby-win congratulations. A.J.C. Secretary Clib-
born’s message was signed “Albert Edward,” and he
posted it up on Randwick grandstand.
» » * *
Another phase of the “ superlatively auda-
cious” attempt of the Y.R.O. to annex the flat at
Flemington was entered upon the other day by a confer-
ence between the club and the neighboring municipali-
ties. The public have used this ground for recreation for
35 years, but lately the club have fenced it off and have
been exercising the rights of owners. This conference
was arranged as a result of various protests, but effected
nothing beyond showing the public that the “ flat” is no
longer theirs. It adjourned for a fortnight to enable the
representatives to ask their councils “ whether they
would be willing to forego access to the flat if the com-
mittee would favorably consider a proposal to throw open
the heights and road along the bank of the river ? ”
The puzzled “public” wants to know what
power any councils have to “forego” its rights in this
matter, and also when the Govt, is going to step in and
stop Mr. Frank Madden and the Y.R.O.’s high-handed-
ness? Councillor Schutt, of Williamstown, a stout de-
fender of public rights in this matter, asked Madden what
were the claims of the V.R.0., and was told that “the
committee would resist any application for throwing open
the flat to the public.” The dangerous part of the busi-
ness is that the Flemington Council, the most directly
interested, is apparently willing to barter the rights of
the public in this matter for a mess of pottage for itself,
in the shape of a concession by the V.R.C. of a portion of
their ground for a Flemington public recreation reserve.
• * * *
This year’s big Cup list is 27 less than the ’9l
total. Five horses placed in previous Cups appear—Hova,
Jeweller, Devon, Nada, and Ronda.
• * » *
That big Burrabari Melb. Cup bet, published
recently, appears to have been a tug-enticing expedient.
The horse isn’t entered. Bookies owe a lot to the daily
press.
* * * *
The folly of racing Auraria at the Y.R.C.
Autumn Meeting is seen in the omission of the mare’s
name from the Melbourne Cup entries. Auraria went
wrong mysteriously, and a breakdown which can’t be
promptly located is a hopeless case, as a rule.
* * * *
It is fully 5 to 1 against Redleap going to the
post for the V.R.C. Grand National, but not 5 to 1 against
the giant winning either the Hurdle or Steeple—with a
start. The gilded Millers would hardly be such shabby
sportsmen as to run Redleap unless he were fit and
seasoned for the journey.
* * * *
O’Trigger is a horse worth thinking about for
future events. By Trenton, out of Barley, he is a beauty
to view, and, if Power can keep him going at hard work —
which is doubtful —he may shake one of the Cups.
* ♦ * *
At least four big Cup horses were entered out of
curiosity to see what weight they would get.
* » * *
Response, favorite in a toney field of 19, ran ex-
ecrably in Randwick Stakes. It was a good betting event,
but some of the best-backed were unable to get on the
scene in time. Ruenalf ran nineteenth.
* * * *
A hurdle-jock, whose mount went a cropper on
Saturday at Randwick, got the “ half of twelve” for his
peculiar riding before the accident.
» * * *
The hair-line of fineness to which handicapping
may be brought received illustration at Epsom (Vic.),
when Hera and Last Glen dead-heated twice for Trial
Stakes, Hera winning by a neck only in the third run.
There was a 211 b. difference in their weights, and half a
brick more on either would have sent the money one way
or the other.
* • * *
The jockeyed field in A.J.C. Randwick Stakes
on Saturday showed more galloping energy than usual,
the genuine anxiety exhibited by so many to win being
engendered by the all-pow'erful sweep inducement. It
was a pound to a pin against any of the rear-guard head-
ing the front seven at the distance, and good biz. to back
any of the leaders at that point. The fast-finishing True
Blue got home by enough to swear to in front of Hindoo,
the colt thus hooking an unexpected double, having
brought off the Rapid Stakes earlier. True Blue was
penalised 101 b. in the lj-mile, and gave away weight all
round to a first-class crowd.
* * * *
It is little wonder that people are diffident
about betting much over obstacle events on Sydney race-
courses. The fields are generally small, and the number
of triers smaller. Most of the events consequently smack
of the much-faked selling swindles. Stewards should
scarify on last Saturday’s lines. The man who brought
his ’chaser up at a Melb. Cup pace, when he knew he
couldn't win, deserved his little year. He is a most in-
artistic loser.
» * * *
True Blue, a slashing galloper, threatens to give
his young sire, Hotchkiss, a great advt. The colt’s double-
event at Randwick was an eye-opener.
* * * *
V.R.C. men have been remarking on the
decrease in Cup entries. What encouragement do they
give long-distance racing? In their programme to-day
(Sat., 13th) the big handicap is only a mile. Any crock
ought to go that distance, so good ’uns and stayers are
perforce not entered. A mile spin as the principal attrac-
tion brings the V.R.C. down to proprietary-course level.
* * * *
Whenever the ring gets struck persistently by
the public it points bitterly to the bad handicapping. An
ideal man who could frame an unpickable list every time
would be at once installed as Ikey Mo’s joss.
* * * *
Presence of mind ! Sir Henry was winning
Epsom (Vic.) hurdles easily, the other day, when Chummie
suddenly thundered alongside and beat him by a head. The
titled horse lost through his rider groping round for his
Avhip when the crisis came. It was in his mouth 1
» * * *
Reinsmen with mud-splashed reputations should
not wag an idle tongue. On a train-ride lately a shady
jock, let off a few choice observations re a certain Melb.
rider. An oldish-looking listener objected strongly.
[‘What do you know about him?” queried the puller.
“ Well, I’m his father, and if he had your character he’d
cut his throat.” The conversation then lapsed for want
of a talking quorum.
• • • •
A jockey, accosted at Rand wick by a lady with
a rather familiar face, was asked about the horse he was
to ride. “ Well, between you and me, mum, you had
better back something else.” “ Why—not good enough ?”
9 , be’ s good enough, but ” (significantly) “ I don’t
think he’s quite well.” “ Thank you very much. So glad
I know.” Then the lady tripped off and met her husband,
who owned the ’orse. The nature of their dialogue hasn’t
transpired, but that jockey has since learned the identity
of the lady.
A certain owner, hearing his prad was to be
seized for debt, persuaded the obstinate lawyer, after an
hour’s talk, to wait two days. “He had a monte on, and
the lawyer could have a big wager himself ; it was a cer-
tainty.” The good thing duly won, and the shark made a
cosy heap. Next day he got a cheque for the debt, but,
unsatisfied, wrote for £7 odd, legal costs, interviews, &c.
Then debtor sent in his little bill: “To advising you to
back ‘ Ringtail,’ £1 Is. ; to advising you again in re same,
£1 Is. ; to further advising you to have a bit more on just
before the start, £1 Is. ; to 10 per cent, on winnings
secured through me, £7 10s.; total, £lO 13s. Please send
cheque for balance due, and oblige.”
*»' * *
A sweep-yam : A mug, with little knowledge
of racing, wrote a trainer, asking to see the horse
he had drawn. Request agreed to, trainer ascertaining
meanwhile that the lucky one didn’t know a bean from a
broom. Desiring to make a good impression on his visitor,
and get a big bit to nix, he trotted out a peacocky prad,
all show' and shine, instead of the plain-looking real
Mackay. “What do you think of him?” “Is that
him?” “ Yes.” “Oh ! he’s all right, but the last time I
saw him he was a chestnut! ”
* * * *
The Christchurch Jockey Club first used the
tote in 1880, since which it has expended £185,000 and
paid the State £3OOO in Totalisator tax. In ’BO the club
could only afford to spend £5000; last year it spent
£16,000 and had £2045 surplus.
* * * *
That convicted Sydney bank-embezzler’s <£lo7o
plunge represented a three weeks’ flutter, and must have
quite set up the small “ books.” The wretched clerk, w'ho
didn’t back a single winner, says he got all his “good
things ” from the daily papers.
* * * *
£lOOO in stakes for the two days’ Coolgardie
meeting. Coolgardie Cup £3OO, Goldfields Cup £lBO, and
Hurdle-race £l2O are the chief prizes.
* * * •
<£119,525 was put through the tote in eight days
at Adelaide meeting. Onkaparinga holds the one day’s
record with £18,136.
* • * *
At Otaki (M.L.) races Mystical, beaten by a
nose, would have paid a div. of £l9O. Bona Fide, the
third horse, would have paid £122, and the fourth horse,
Springtime, nearly £6O. As things were, each investor
on the winner drew £2O 19s. The tote does not ask its
patrons to wait, “as the race has been a bad one;”
neither does it barrack them to pick a double in part-pay-
ment. But then it doesn’t drink champagne and clothe a
harem in sealskin and diamonds. M.L. Ikey Mo when
“ betting tote-odds” limits the dividend to £lO or £l5.
* * * *
A bookie who complained to his grocer, the
other day, about the rise in the price of butter was
snappily told to go and raise the price of his odds. And
the grocer himself didn’t see the point of the remark
until an hour afterwards.
* * » *
Turner can’t be deriving much selfish satisfac-
tion from Australian Eleven achievements up to date,
though it would really appear that, to put it mildly, he
would be at least as well in the team as M’Kibbin.
* * » »
The Gentlemen of England were seemingly not
very anxious to take the shine out of the invaders. The
match, Australia v. The Gentlemen, fixed for 18th inst.,
has been abandoned for the insufficient reason that six
counties will be starting important matches on the same
day. Swell amateur influence would have got over the
difficulty, if so disposed. An eleven picked from the
Midland counties is to fill the gap.
* * * *
Granted fine weather, the Australians should
have a magnificent “gate” for their London d£but at
Lord’s to-day (11th). The M.C.C. will probably put a
first-class representative team in the field.
» * * *
Young Townsend, the Gloucestershire bowler,
doesn’t seem to have troubled the Australians much.
Darling and Donnan knocked up 80 runs before the first
wicket was taken by—E. M. Grace, the 50-year-old “ lob-
ster.” As for Gloucestershire batting, well, eight men
made 30 runs among them, including sundries.
* * * *
Melb. Football Charity Saturday’s play (gate,
£200) again demonstrated the superiority of Essendon.
After defeating Collingwood by 3 goals (all kicked by
Kearney) to 2, in a 40min. game, the Essendons came out
again and put Port Melb. through by 2 goals to 1. They
were hardly troubled in either game, but their match to-
day (13th) with S. Melb. should about see them at their
best. * * * *
Sydney didn’t empty itself on to the football
grounds on Saturday when the Wentworth-Wallaroo
tussle was the only one worth gate-coin. It was an
obstinate, pig-headed ground fight, and the Went.’s even-
tually rejoiced by a goal to nil. The dangerous Wallaroo
backs got no open work in the first spell, Went.’s making
it all scrum. But with the wind behind afterwards they
reversed their tactics. The passing and tackling were
superb, but Woller, Went.’s back, will lose more than he’ll
catch collaring high. “ Collar low ”is the acknowledged
Rugby war-cry.
* * * *
Randwick’s victory over Pirates by 35 points to
love not only shows how good the winners are, but how
much the Pirates have deteriorated since last season. They
have got pluck, but want practice —together. Paddington
went under, as usual—this time to University by 22 to 0,
all scored in the first spell. Paddington, with wind
advantage, ran over its opponents afterwards, but had
no line-crossing luck.
* * * *
S. W. Stanley, the “ coming champion ” billiard-
player some 15 years ago, has gone the way of most of
them. That is to say, he’s dead before his time, whilst
grey-haired Roberts, who figured as actual champion long
before the plucky little S.W. had grown out of knicker-
bockers, still goes on improving his game. Stanley was
the younger brother of “Dave” Richards (another bil-
liardist), both of them, for some reason, having chosen to
drop their family name —Digges.
• • • •
Although vaguely asserted to be impracticable
by an interested section, the urgent necessity for a turf
by-law regulating eleventh-hour erasures for races over a
fixed value cropsup at every horse-fixture of importance. It
is painfully obvious afterwards that certain animals have
been kept in merely to fatten Ikey Mo and the stable at
public expense. Some owners, who have no show or have
two entrants, put a laying-commission in the market, or
get one, secure the return, and then scratch after the fat
has been skimmed. But the much-milked crowd will yet
be struck all round once too often. And then they’ll cry
for the tote awake and asleep.
* 4c * *
The “electric bicycle” is said to have arrived.
A Frenchman is alleged to have patented a bike which
carries a dynamo under the seat. In the new machine
the foot pedal movement regulates the speed, but does
not generate it as at present. Once fairly set going, the
electric bicycle only requires steering. Its inventor
claims that it can be made to go faster than anything
ever known in the world of wheelery, and that a man
might ride it at top speed practically for days without
fatigue. Which, if it be true, looks like a revolution in
the bicycle trade.
There will one day be a great "exposure in both
Melb. and Sydney on the line of the Melb. Jaypee scandal,
as to the running of bagnios, Chinese lotteries and totes.
Mesfcon’s mission up in Cape York Penin-
sula should be productive of good. If the idea of
establishing food-stations for the aborigines had
been adopted years ago much loss of life on both
sides would have been prevented and Bananaland
would be a lot in pocket into the bargain. It
is calculated that it would have less to
provision the remnant of blacks in the North and
give them a decent reservation than has been ex-
pended in maintaining that gang of dusky des-
peradoes, the Native Police.
Two pars., found side-by-side, in Sydney
D.T.:—
Owing to the cheaper price of flour under freetrade in
New South Wales, a Victorian-border baker has started to
make his dough at Albury and bake it in Victoria, thus
escaping the duty.
During the past few days, full}' 180 tons of vegetables
have been imported by rail from Victoria into New South
Wales.
Thus it will be seen that, when one small baker
sends dough from N.S.W. to Victoria, it proves
that Freetrade has made bread cheap in N.S.W.
And when a lot of people send 180 tons of vege-
tables from Vic. to N.S.W., it doesn’t show that
Protection has made vegetables cheaper in Vic-
toria —at least, it doesn’t show it to any extent
worth mentioning.
Sydney Daily Telegraph, in last Tues-
day’s leading article, barracked vigorously for the
Lands for Closer Settlement Bill, and pointed out
enthusiastically that there was no danger what-
ever about the powers conferred on the authorities
to “ resume ” the property of its brother Bill at a
price which might be six times that authorised by
Parliament. Says the D.T. :
Under the Lands for Public Purposes Acquisition Act
the Executive have power to resume private properties to
the extent of hundreds of thousands of pounds, behind
the backs and without the concurrence of either House of
Parliament. With such powers as these in the hands of a
Minister or a Ministry, the possibility of corruption might
be urged ; but no such accusation has ever been seriously
made, and we fully believe that during the whole fifteen
or sixteen years of administration of the Lands for Public
Purposes Acquisition Act not a single improper use of
that Act has been made.
Why, certainly ! There was never any bad smell
attached to the Darling Island resumptions or the
purchase of the A.S.N. property, was there ? And
no one ever dreamt of supposing that a Govern-
ment, under whose regime thousands of public
money were spent in making roads through a
Minister’s property, could possibly be suspected
of any tendency to wink the other eye. And the
idea that all the railway resumption business has
been one continuous stench from first to last is
only a vision, of course. Considering the approval
which the Closer Settlement Bill has evoked from
so many quarters, what a number of people there
must be in N.S.W. who hope to have their land
“ resumed ” by the State at the earliest oppor-
tunity !


Amusements.
jpHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
“ The Bulletin ” Casually Remarks that
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Drury Lane Sporting Drama,
“The Derby Winner,”
Is, as a pageant, “Vast and Gorgeous and Stupendous ”
That the Publio agree with this expression is Evidenced
by the Bestowal of their Unbounded Patronage and
Approval. 0T PRICES-3s, 2s, and Is
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Tickets at Power's.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson and
Musgrove.
MAGNETIC SUCCESS of A. M. PALMER and W A
BRADY’S COMPANY.
EVERY
EVENING !
mmw"
EVERY
EVENING 1
By Paul M. Potter and Geo. Du Maurier.
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co’s and A. Hordern & Sons’
Haymarket. Prioes as Usual. Day Tickets at Adams’.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
Farewell Performances by the Brough-Boucicault Comedy
Company, prior to approaching dissolution of partnership.
Thursday, June 11, Friday, June 12,
ii The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith.”
SATURDAY, MON.—“ THE PASSPORT.”
rues., Wed.— “THE SECOND MRS. TANQUERAY.”
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
CITZGERALD BROTHERS 7
—HUGE—
. . COMBINED SHOWS . .
THE LONDON COMPANY.
(Donster Circus m Menagerie
FIFTH WEEK 1 CONTINUED SUCCFSS 1
And THIRD Grand CHANGE of Programme.
TO-NIGHT and Every Evening at EIGHT.
DOORS OPEN at SEVEN O’CLOCK.
Seats may be reserved at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse,
George-street.
SPECIAL TRAMS from all SUBURBS to the doors run
at short intervals up to 8, and at the conclusion of the
performance.
Prices—4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and One Shilling.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Children, 6d. to all parts —Matinees only.
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Harry Richards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission —Private Boxes, £1 Is; Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Busiuess Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
IJIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO.
jag’"’ Prices—2B, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. C. B. Westmacott
Treasurer and Bus. Manager .. Mr. Frank Barnes.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
Grand Revival, on an Elaborate Scale, of
THE SILVER KIKTG.
Box Plan at Allan’s. POPULAR PRICES.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
POTTER-BELLEW SEASON.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, and Every Evening) TO-NIGHT
Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
L L .A. S YOU LIKE IT.’ 7
MATlNEE—Saturday, June 13, at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
National and Agricultural Industrial
Association of Queensland.
TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL EXHIBITION.
BRISBANE:
AUGUST 11th to 14th, 1896.
Prize Schedule and Entry Forms on Application to
Henry C. Wood, Secretary.
~ \* / E TWO” WALTZ—Dedicated by special
YV permission to Lord and Lady Hampden. Just
published and well received. Played by Permanent
Artillery Band. Price 2s. All Musicsellers.
JHE WAXWORKS, MELBOURNE.
Vast Collection of Life-like representations of celebrated
and notorious characters, to which have been JUST
ADDED figures of the most prominent
STATESMEN OF THE DAY
(Salisburv, Chamberlain).
INTERESTING CONGERIES of HISTORICAL CURIOS.
Glassblowing by Mr. C. A. Woodroffe.
PROF. CUNARD and his Musical and Magical Troupe.
Admission—ONE SHILLING. Children, SIXPENCE.
Sporting.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
CYCLE STTIPFXj I IE IR- S
To His Excellency Lord Hampden.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
—FOR THE —
World-renowned HUMBERS, PREMIERS, etc.
W. J. C. ELLIOTT, Manager.
r
St CLASS.
■ ■
The Roniseh Piano.
A Bargain for the Buyer and a joy to the Musician.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
348 George-st., Sydney (next Equitable Building).
WE PAY HIGHEST PRICES IN CASH for
KANGAROO
SKINS
GEO. WILCOX & CO.,
9 Young Stbeet,
CIRCULAR QUAY,
WALLABY SKINS,
RABBIT SKINS,
OPOSSUM & BEAR SKINS.
NO COMMISSIONS DEDUCTED.
SYDNEY.
PAYMENT RETURNED SAME DAY SKINS RECEIVED.
■Write for Price List
Ti>e London Bank of Australia, in.,
2 Old Broad Street, London, E.C.
CAPITAL AUTHORISED.
62,500 Ordinary Shares of £4O each, of which £l2 10s. is to remain
as Reserve Liability ... ... ... ... ... £2,500,000
150,000 5£ per cent. Preference Shares of £lO each ... ... 1,500,000
£4,000,000
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir James Francis Garrick, Q.C., K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Alfred Christian Garrick, Esq.
Robert Landale, Esq.
George Miller, Esq.
Benjamin Newbatt, Esq.
Robert Rome, Esq.
Nicol Brown Watson, Esq.
Balance Sheet, 31st December, 1895.
LIABILITIES.
£ 8. d.
Notes in circulation 158,025 15 0
Bills payable and other liabilities ... 499,112 16 3
Fixed deposits of Old
Bank £3,861,620 0 0
Current accounts and
new deposits 1,504,325 17 6
5,365,945 17 5
6,023,084 8 8
Capital Account.
Ordinary Shares —■
50,000 shares, £25 called 1,250,000 0 0
Less: —
Unpaid in respect
of unissued
shares £9330
Calls in arrears 3430
12,760 0 0
1,237,240 0 0
Add:—
Calls paid in ad-
vance 1365
Prepaid by trus-
tees in respect of
reserve liability 6825
8,190 0 0
Preference Shares —
17,193 shares of £lO each,
fully paid
Balance of Contingency
Account held in re-
serve pending realiza-
tion of assets of the Old
Bank
Profit and loss as per
account below
1,245,430 0 0
171,930 0 0
1,417,360 0 0
337,066 0 8
15,895 4 0
£7,793,405 13 4
ASSETS.
Cash in London and the
colonies —
Coin and bullion, and
notes of other banks
Balances due by other
banks
Loans at call and short
notice in London ...
Investments, Bills of Ex-
change, Loans, and
other assets in London
Bills discounted, Loans,
and other assets in the
colonies
Bank premises
Open policies and stamps
£ s. d.
£ a. d.
918,394 16 7
107,460 19 8
390,009 10 3
1,415,865 6 6
517,397 13 6
5,475,705 19 3
383,870 7 5
566 6 8
£7,793,405 13
Profit at)6 Loss AccoCiijt.
To Charges, including Directors’ and
Auditors’ Fees, Salaries and all other
expenses at Head Office, Branches, and
Agencies
~ Income Tax and Tax on Note Issue
~ Balance
£ s. and.
34,640 5 0
i,4Ci iu i
15.396 i 0
£51,996 19 1
We hereby certify that the above Balance Sheet
is, in our opinion, a full and fair Balance Sheet, pro-
perly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
view of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books of the
Bank in London and the return for the colonies.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
23rd April, 1896.
By Balance carried over as per last report
~ Gross profits in London and in the
colonies for half year ended 31st
December, 1895, after providing- for
interest due and accrued on all
deposits, deducting- rebate on bills
current, and making provision for
bad and doubtful debts
By Balance brought down
0 f 968‘STST
X 61 966‘xsar
0 H fU'lf,
I 9 ZZZ'OI
•p -8 SF
JAMES F. GARRICK,
R. ROME,
GEORGE MILLER,
Directors.
W. N. TONKINS, Secretary.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar KTone.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of tliecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you.’
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —-I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any ottier medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, ana consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilins’— —
- Buchn Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS' REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it,
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DC
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
ROW’S STEANEF WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
pdiSS6Q«
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydney.


Health and Strength
RESTORED
BY THE USE OF
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. Camming, of Yarraville,
Victoria, Australia, Says :
“About a year ago, I had a severe
attack of Influenza, which left me
very weak, without energy, appe-
tite, or interest in life. Obtaining
little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recom-
mended to me, I finally tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and from that time,
began to gain health and strength,
I continued the treatment until
fully recovered, and now have very
great pleasure in telling my friends
of the merits of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use. I
consider it the best blood-purifier
known.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS
for Constipation
and Biliousness.
Sugar-Coated, Mild but Effective
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Gane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro* Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell &Co., Ltd.
BE A V TIE V.L EL O WEB S
—AT—
SEARL’S,
SYDNEY’S FLORISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.-Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal. — E. LENTHALL
LDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria"
O
The miners of “ Golden Gippsland,” living
mainly on tick, porcupine and bandicoot, now
that the luxurious mushroom season is almost
over, have found that sun-dried water-cress is the
only decent substitute for tobacco.
Tasmanian advt. :
'U'OR SALE. —Place of 16 acres, with good four-
~ L roomed house, healthy locality, near sea, no
public-house near, £5 a year for postal service.
Steamer calls weekly. Good place for Sabbath keeper
with two or three boys. Address Mills Reef, P. 0.,
South Bruni, Tasmania.
An Italian sneak thief sent to gaol in Mel-
bourne the other day seems to have followed the
example of his brigand fellow-countrymen who ask
a blessing at the local church every time they set
out on a raid. Among Maccaroni’s papers was a
sheet giving details of his mode of living. One
sentence stands out: “I have in the Savings
Bank £ll, to which—with the help_of God and the
Blessed Virgin Mary—l will this vveek be able to
add, say, £3, bringing the total up to £14.”
The gallows on which the Boer patriots
were hanged by the British at Slaughter Nek in
1815 is still extant, and is preserved by the Boer
who owns it as a holy relic. When Jameson was
captured, the Boer packed up the aged instrument
of death and hurried with it to Pretoria that it
might be ready for “ Dr. Jim’s ” execution, but
the event didn’t come off. Then he offered it for
the hanging of Col. Rhodes and the other Johan-
nesburg insurrectionists, but that didn’t come off
either. Consequently a piece of poetic retribution
missed fire.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickssj,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
A person with a fine strain of the humorous
aboriginal about him, was lately “sent up” for
three months at Auckland (M.L.). He was a
hulking individual who lived upon one of the
“ fallen women ” of the city ; that is to say she
kept him in board, lodging, clothes, tobacco and
drink, and was regularly and freely walloped in
return. Probably if she hadn’t been walloped she
wouldn’t have stuck to her owner with so per-
sistent an affection. In between times he made
the miserable girl stand in a corner while he aimed
open pen-knives at her outstretched arms, and at
other times he fired hat-pins at her cheek from
across the room. Judging by the scars upon her,
and by the fact that he hadn’t stabbed her in the
eye, the court decided that he was a tolerably good
shot with a hat-pin. Also, he used to make her
hold a large piece of tobacco in her mouth for an
hour at a time, and if she became ill before the
hour was up she was spanked or trodden on.
Finally one night, he struck a perfectly new idea,
and after severely whaling his Flossie he got
her head between his knees and made her
swallow twelve packets of salts in one
act. This drastic treatment doubled the
wretched creature up, and for the first time she
revolted; she had taken the hat-pins and the to-
bacco and the canings and all the other things as
part of the day’s work, but the twelve packets of
salts were too much. The result, as already men-
tioned, was three months. In the same province
and the same week an old man of 70 got 12 months
for vagrancyj but that is another story. The
offence of being old and insolvent is one thing,
and that of filling a girl with 12 packets of salts
is something quite different.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
The joest and Purest Dentifrice one can use ; it
whitens the teeth, prevents decay, strengthens
the gums and sweetens the breath.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR,
A soothing, heating and emollient milk for beauti-
fying the skin; removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn,
Redness, Roughness, &c., and is warranted
harmless.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE,
Dyes the hair a natural and permanent Brown or
Black. Ask Druggists and Stores for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, England,
and avoid cheap, poisonous imitations.
Coi)ceri)ii)g
PICTURE FRAMES.
Referring to the many advertisements
appearing now in the daily papers
concerning
Prices of PictGre Frances,
we beg to state that we are prepared
to execute orders for the above in a
proper workmanlike manner at
Prices EqCially Low
as those advertised by any
Respectable HoGse
in the Trade.
Being DIRECT IMPORTERS and
CASH BUYERS, besides holding
the Largest and Best-assorted Stock
of Mouldings in the Colonies, Cus-
tomers can rely upon getting
FULL VALUE
for their money.
H. H. GROTH & CO.,
529 George Street, SYDNEY.
1207
372
124
1203
m
403
126
fa iff
Alt fti
A
125
12
234
078
fSSSSSSS
56
S.
r <z
%
B 2
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest k Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRAD&
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A USTIIALIAN
2V EEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127
56, 57, 234— 3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
THESE PIPES MAY BE HAD FROM
V ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sargood, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver &Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Christchurch.
D. D. Hyde & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. A. Alexander, 88 Elizabeth-street and 27 Swan,
ston-street, Melbourne.
WESTRALIA—
Messrs. Sanders & Nathan, Perth.
The NEW LOND°N COMPANY.
ART JEWELLERS,
DIAMOND MERCHANTS,
WATCH MANUFACTURERS.
3
Importers of
SILVER & ELECTRO-PLATE,
CLOCKS, OPERA GLASSES, &c.
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
DOOR TO FRESH FOOD & ICE COMPANY’S TEA ROOMS
PRIZE MEDAL
Dr. Keith’s
Baking Powder
Is the Heal Thing. TRY IT.
*r AND HAVE SOME GENUINE BAKING POWDER FOR A CHANGE, -a
Gillespies Flaked “Grainea”
Is the Most Perfect PORRJDGE POOD ever Invented.
g
H. HILLIER,
Manufacturer <£ Importer,
135 and 137
Sussex Street, Sydney.
df
1896 BICYCLES fior the Manufactory in Birmingham to my stores in Sussex-street at the following price?
ROADSTER DUNLOP, Pneumatic Tires, Tangent Spokes (also Ladies), £l3 10s. ; Cushion Tires, £lO.
Don’t forget the SULKY, as shown with Cushions, price as usual, £7 15s. ; BUCKBOARD BUGGIES, £lO 10s
All other light vehicles in Stock, or made to Order. It doesn’t matter what you want in this line—you can get
it from me.
A household word —HILLIER’S Saddles, known all over the colony for Low Prices. Saddles, complete, from
395. 6d. It applies also to Harness : you can get any style at any price from 30s. upwards. Send for Catalogue.
Atclierley & Dawson
By Special Appointment
to their Excellencies,
'Viscount HAMPDEN.
Sir R. W. DUFF.
The Earl of JERSEY
Lord CARRINGTON,
and
.Lord HOPETOUN.
Choice “ GLOBE ” TEAS.
Awarded FIRST I'RIZE and Special SILVER MEDAL
at the METROPOLITAN SHOW, 1895. These Teas
also gained the same distinction in Queensland.
These unrivalled TEAS are supplied to Consumers Direct at Lowest Rates. Samples Gratis.
Delivered FREE at any Town in the Colony.
ALL GRADES AND VARIETIES OF TEA KEPT IN STOCK.
257 GEORGE STREETSYDNEY— aIso at MELBOURNE & BRISBANE
CEST & CHEAPEST C(JOKED TOOL)
5
for Infants, Invalids, & Everybody.
Contains Extracted Wheat Phosphates.
16oz.TIKS.
Compare Price,
Weight, and Value
of other Foods.
FRAME FOOD CO., LTD LOMBARD ROAD BATTERSEA. LONDON, R.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
9
1
>
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
The aged.


is:.
-
m
m
l
ERR RASS
SSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
-SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HERBAL
ALF ALINE REMEDIES
(Registered.)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and Nerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES, BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OVER 10 YEARS,
AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
List of the Alfalme Remedies.
Vitality Restored
ALPALINE
VITALITY PILLS
Are the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Austra-
lian public for many years, and stood a test which
may well be envied by all other manufacturers of
similar- remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bility, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— l/- 3/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Special Double course,
43 6 ; ordinary course, 23/6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
and 3/-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -Boxes, 23/6,
12 -, 6/-, and 3/-.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43 6, 23/6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder-Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Injection Powder— Cures the Whites.
Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— Boxes, 6/- and
3/-.
Alfaline Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, l/- and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 1/6
Alfaline Bath Tablets -Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lates the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/-; posted, 1/6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c„ &c.
Blood Purified
ALP ALINE
LOCK CURE PILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonic-
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It is not the usual Mercury remedy,
but a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALFALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint he im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rasshussen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices. —With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/-
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
W ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
Important.
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus —PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
WARNING.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should
always obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
RASSMUSSEN'S REMEDIES are QgARANTEED py RELY HERBAL,
sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or to his Branches.
Selected Testimonials
Nerves Cured
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir —I have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, I consider you are deserving of success,
wmch I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmussen.—Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill ; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wish. Fulfilled.
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don't
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly,
N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Hers Rassmussen,
I ain pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
“Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year of 1871 I was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills; since then I have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
Witness : Edward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness : John Hagermaw (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Cantlereagh- street
Sydney.
.A. Valuable Free Sook.
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuable
information, and many useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality, as well ai
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will be
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of testi-
monials, as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office:
547 George St., Sydney.
AND AT HIS INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
Melbourne: 150 Bourke Street
Adelaide: 151 Bundle Street
Brisbane: 160 Queen Street
N.Z. : 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
West Australia: Corner Hay and William Streets , Perth .


MONSTER
RS ALL’S
PRIZE LIST.
gd
r
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTBRSALL,”
care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
WarwickFarmC.
20th JUNE.
10,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
Canterbury H.
18th JULY.
10,000 Subscribers
/_•
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _______
Shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
TattersaEl’s Great property Oistiibution
100,000 Shares of £1 each.
Closes 30 tlx June, 1C96.
SCHEDULE OF PRIZES.
1- Large Warehouse—George-strect, opposite Commercial
Bank of Australia, Ltd.; net rental, £416. Two splen-
did Brick Stores, Kent-street; net rental, £450 >.. £28,500
2. Large Block Land—Kent 8s Princ )s streets, 80ft. x 330 ft.,
with 4 houses and 2 cottages; rental, £409 10s. Block
of Land, Clarence-st„ near Town Hall, 40ift. frontage 21,000
3. Brickworks at St. Peters—With substantial buildings and
first-class brick plant; rental value, £5OO ... 14,500
4. Leasehold Property—Corner of Cleveland and Riley sts.,
Redfern, with Shop and Two Houses ; rental, .£l4B 4s.
Splendid Block Land, Harrington-st., near St. Patrick’s
Church. Portion let for <£6o ... ... ... 6,500
5. Large Dwelling House—lsl Elizabeth-street, 10 rooms,
outhouses, and stables; rental, <£22o ... ... 4,800
6. 853 Acres Farm Land —Cooranbong, close to Morrissett
Railway Station ... ... ... ... 4,000
7. Four Acres Land, Hunter’s Hill, extending to water front-
age, with Stone Cottage ... ... ... 3,500
8. Substantial 10-roomed House, “ Narrawah,” Ocean-street,
Woollahra ; title, Leasehold ; 60 years to run ; no Ground
Rent; Rental, <£l3o ... ... ... ... 3,500
9. Six Blocks Land, Avoca-street, Randwick, 120ft..x 229 ft.... 1,500
10. Two Cottages, Cook’s River Road; Rental, £5B 10s. ... 1,250
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24 to 33. Ten Blocks Land, Coogee, each £lOO ... ... 1,000
34 to 73. Forty Blocks Land, Rockdale, each £5O ... 2,000
74 to 123. Fifty Blocks Land, Coogee, Hurstville, and Five
Dock, each £3O ... ... ... ... 1,500
124 to 273. 150 Blocks Land, Guildford, Galston, and Campbell
Hill, each £2O ... .... ... ... 3,000
£lOO,OOO
Registered Address: “ Tattersall, ” care of GEORGE ADAMS, Hobart, Tasmania.
Please allot me Shares in your
Great Property Distribution, 100,000 at 20s.
£
Name
Address.
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me ‘ Shares in
the above.
Name
Address
£ : :
4th JULY.
50,000 Subscribers
at 5.
% * _
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ : :
Bask H.
3rd AUGUST.
10,000 Subscribers
SL "t 5«
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE 0.
3rd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in
the above.
Name
Address -
CAULFIELD C.
17th October.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me..
the above.
Shares in
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Business Announcement.
The people of Queensland
—in-
TOWN and COUNTRY DISTRICTS
Are invited to send their Orders to, or Visit the
Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES,
AND CO.,
BRISBANE,
WHERE the FINEST STOCK in the COLONY
—OF—
General Drapery, Tailoring, Clothing, Shirts,
Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
Mattings, Furniture, Redding, Bedsteads,
Glass, China and Crockeryware
Can be seen in all Qualities, from Low-Priced
Lines to Very Best.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS by giving clear
description of their requirements, stating prices
they wish to pay, and enclosing remittance to
cover amount, will always get from us best value
procurable for their money, and will be as well
served as if in town to select for themselves.
Our Goods are always New, Up-to-Date in
Style, Underneath in Price,
And we serve all customers alike. An examination of our
GOODS and PRICES will be found an economical lesson.
Finney, Isles, & Co., Brisbane,
And at MARYBOROUGH (Q.),
And 27 Milton-street, Fore-street, London, E.C
A Beautiful Fabric,
THE CELEBRATED
“ LOUIS "
VELVETEEN.
gdf
LUSTROUS
BLUE BLACK.
PERMANENT
JET BLACK.
Rich & Rare Colors
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
Genuine “LOUIS
VELVETEEN” is
specially recommended
for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns,
Dinner Dresses, Chil-
dren’s Dresses & Cloaks,
Millinery, Trimming,
and Art Decorative pur-
poses.
NOTE WELL. —Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS” Velve-
teen bears the Name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no other
way), and is stamped with a Guarantee of Wear.
HAIKDKESSEItS AND WIOMAKI US.
To the Trnde.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBEES’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 683 George Street, Sydney.
g
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G. ELDE.IDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
LATEST
PINCE-NEZ
GREENFIELD'
BARRACLOUGH/
Greenfield and
Barracloug’li,
Spectacle Makers,
371 GEORGE STREET 371
IA. J.S. Bank-buildings, near King Street, SYDNEY).
Sir SAMUEL GRIFFITH, K.0.M.G., Chief Justice,
Queensland, writes:—“l have much pleasure m saying
that you are entirely at liberty to make use of my name
in certifying to your being competent Ophthalmic
Opticians, in whom the public may place confidence.'
Sight Examined Free of Charge.
Dear Bulletin, —Minister Carruthers is
tangled re the West Bogan Scrub Lands. The
lessees say the terms are too severe. Monetary
institutions don’t see their way clear to the out-
lay. Instead of 2/6, some of the pine-scrub will
cost 10/- per acre to cut and bum, and 6d. to 1/-
per acre a year to keep down. Then there are the
mallee and box seedlings to cope with, and they
are just awful. From time of scrubbing and burn-
ing off it will be at least 3 years before the land is
at all fit to stock. In 4 years more, some honest
selector comes along, taking advantage of the im-
proved state of things, and reaps the benefit
thereof. Lessees say it’s too sudden, especially as
all improvements fall to the Crown. The Land
Board sat for several days at Nyngan recently
wading into the matter. A prodigious amount of
evidence from surveyors, inspectors, and others
was taken. Summed up : all agreed it is really
and truly “Scrub Land.” But scrub is not the
only trouble of the unfortunate West Boganite.
Needle-grass threatens to become a plague—even
wallabies won’t eat it. It tears the wool off the
sheep and smothers them with seed. The fact is
these scrub-lands should have been classed in the
Western Division, if tjje framers of the Land Act,
or the Parliament which made it law, had under-
stood the matter they weredealing with.— Nyngan
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic: 1, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-milKon books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
A true tale of Northern Queensland.
Scene, decayed township, consisting chiefly of two
public-houses. One publican’s wife is a chronic
drunk, and when drunk has a long-standing
grievance against wife of the other publican. Gets
drunk, as usual, and goes over to reflect at the
top of her voice on the character of the opposition
lady. The opposition lady comes out, tears off a
good deal of her friend’s hair, and gives the wreck
into custody. Result: three months hard in the
gaol in adjacent town. A few months later drunk
repeated. Another great free fight between the
two public-house ladies. First lady again reduced
to a wreck and given in custody, and gets three
months. Next day a party starts per coach for
the adjacent town. Mother in custody, and hand-
cuffed as she shows signs of violence, en route to
begin her spell in gaol. Daughter and in-
tended son-in-law on their way to be married
at town on the road, and casually seeing
the old lady part of the way to gaol at
the same time. Husband going to assist at
the wedding and also casually seeing the old
lady part of the way to gaol. Marriage comes off
successfully. Festive wedding-supper ; opposition
publican and his wife—the lady who had twice
knocked out the bride’s mother and given her in
custody- both present; also the J.P. who had sent
the old lady up. Reunion, flow of soul, and
general drunk. Newly-married pair live happily
for two months, and then the son-in-law belts the
old man in the course of a family row, and leaves
the pub. to set up a house of his own. Quantity
of property also disappears. The old battered
publican tries to lay information against his son-
in-law, but the latter is now the only J.P. in town
(the other one having fallen into a creek) and re-
fuses to issue a warrant against himself. Story
closes here, as the old lady is only half through
with a third spell of three months in gaol. N.B. —
A certain monotony attaches to this true narra-
tive, as it consists almost entirely of the same old
lady getting three months in gaol.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
111 Try It.
CAPILLAR INE!
Posted (under cover)
to any partof Austra
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10,0
Sole Agents:
m
The Result
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st., Sydney
MOW
dgcd
owl
THE
BEST
IN the:
MARKET
M.W.ac° ;
[/EVER ,
R^I^mNDING
•gS/5/5-
HOLLOW* GROUND
REAL GERMAN
Pleasure TOt-'sej
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades.
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garre It.
& Co., London, IV.
RAZOR
For the Destruction
OS’ ALIi
Insect Pests,
KRUSE’S
lOSecticide
IS THE
Only Reliable Agent.
CERTAIN in ACTION. QUICK in RESULTS.
Is quite Harmless to Animal Life, and can
with perfect safety be applied to DOGS,
CATS, POULTRY, etc.
Preserves Clothing from the ravages of the
Moth. Destroys Aphis and Vine Caterpillar.
Far more effectual than TOBACCO SMOKE
in Ferneries.
BEWARE OE USELESS IMITATIONS,
and see that you get
Kruse’s Insecticide.
In TINS at Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s. each.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
For
Infants, Children,
Invalids.
AN®
A Complete Food in Itself.
RECOMMENDED by the HIGHEST MEDICAL
AUTHORITIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Try ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF - MEAS ÜBEMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladies, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UN RE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
- HtSi!
Hi!}
Wii
■A
With an ordinary tape measure determine the widtli
round the joints AA, round the instep Bit, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities— a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send.to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price,
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS’S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Catalogue and Treatise on the Human Foot, post free.
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT
FOR A FEWWEEKS OMLV.
A Guinea’s Worth
—FOR —
13s. 6d.
Cut this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments & Remittanceof 13s.
6d., when you will have
mailed to you,post free
apairof tho3e French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow
or wide
f/CUSS
jSi £oup.on
//Guinea
tW
“For comfort, fit and wear your boots TAKE THE
CAKE.”—J. HYLAND, Postmaster, Barcaldine, Queens-
land. Feb. 11,1896.
“The boots you made to my order have given entire
satisfaction.”- S. NORTH, A.J.S. Bank, Scone, New
South Wales. 17/1/96.
“ You iiave given every satisfaction in the execution of
all my orders for boots and shoes.” —(Mrs.) EVA BALL,
79 Collins street, Hobart, Tasmania.
“My boots fit splendid!v. I am well pleased with
them.”—Mrs. JAMES WATSON, Maharatta, Bomhala,
N.S.W. March 15, 1896.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques(ls.). Note the address:
The Intercolonial Foot Costume Manufactory
T. E. ELLIS, Manager,
633 GEORGE STREET(llaymarkkt', SYDNEY ;
And at Hunt< r Street, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Business Announcements#
Remington Type Writer.
There has been of late a marked increase in the
SALE OF THE REMINGTON
to the Titled Classes and the leaders in every
department of thought and action Authors,
Journalists, Clergymen, Physicians, Barristers,
Solicitors, and men of business.
Stott <£• Ho are, Sole Importers.
p EMINGTON.^.
The members of the Royal Family are most
enthusiastic in their appreciation of the Type
Writer, and have been graciously pleased to confer
Warrants of Appointment on the Manufacturers
of the Remington.
Stott <6 Hoare , Sole Importers.
The DAILY USE of the R E M I N GTO N in the
Royal Households is only another indication of
its growing popularity, which is further evinced
by the fact that our machines are used in all
departments of Her Majesty’s service in Great
Britain, to the practical exclusion of all other
makes.
Stott tO Hoave, Sole Importers.
Tb€ R€njiijgtoo Typs Writer
-IB-
used and Endorsed as “the best ” by upwards
of Thirty British Railway Companies, after
Exhaustive Tests by their Leading Engineers,
the London and North-Western Railway Co.
alone using some 200 machines.
USED and Endorsed as “ the best ” by the P. & 0..
Steam Navigation Co., the Union Steamship
Co., and all other leading steamship lines.
USED and Endorsed as “ the best ” by the Royal
Insurance Co., using upwards of 50 machines,
and by nearly all other leading British offices.
STOTT & HOARE,
SOLE IMPORTERS FOR AUSTRALIA,
42(5 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE i
49 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
THE FAMOUS J^t)
J uBtu l 4"™“ PCitcb Cigars.
TEA DIRECT from the PLANTATIONS.
Horace P. Ellis, Vickery’s Chambers, Sydney.
VOLCANIC
Soda "W at er
Is ABSOLUTELY PURE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
The Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Co.,
Bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Publications
Under the patronage of His Excellency the Governor
J 327” Noted for Celebrities:
TALMA & CO.,
—Artist Photographers—
-119 Swanston Street (opp. Town Hall),
MELBOURNE.
Paris Panels, 20/- per doz.; Cabinets, 15/-
d
T'HE New ‘A-ltoert *
- 1 - Accordeons, two full sets of
reeds, DOUBLE action, Price 21/--
Same, superior tone and finish,
26/-. The New AUTOHARP— any
person can play this instrument,
nr vamp his own accompaniments
to thousands of songs, without
any know ledge of music whatever
- Price, with 3 Pedals, 2 books of
tunes, &c., 15/-; Superior tone and
finish, with 6 Major and Minor
pedals, 25/-. Post Free■ The ‘PHQi-
NIX’ Organette (forpieces, hymns
or dances, w orked by the handle).
Best, strong and Sweetest Music
in the world—a child can play it. Price, with 6 popular
tunes, 25/-; large size, 55/-. Only at J. ALBERT &
SON, 118 King Street, SYDNEY. Violin, mandoline,
guitar, banjo, cornet, anglo, ai.d concertina catalogue for-
warded Free. NOTlCE.—Messrs. J. Albert & Son are
the only musicsellers in Australia charging for all Two
Shilling Pieces, songs and waltzes at 1/9, post FREE.
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. fid. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
THE GOVERNMENT
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
DICTIONARY
STANDARD
Send for free prospectus
containing- specimen
pages, illustrations and
full particulars
G.&C.MerriamCo.
Publishers,
40 Hunter St.,
Sydney.
G-eo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail3ooksellers Ss Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of' English A Colonial Celebrities
A LOND ON SUCCjESS.
New Coon Song.
OH, HONEY, WILL YOU LUB DIS COON.
Pi ice, 6d.
Also, same price, the popular song, “ LOVE'S VESPER
HOUR,” by Lindsay L< nnox, and “ LOVE'S VESPER
WALTZ,” by Then. Bonhetir. 1100 other SONGS,
DANCES, etc., at 3d. EACH, of all Dealers, or from
Publishers, W. I'AXTON A CO., iJO.’S Sevniiston-st.,
nelhouriir, and 111 Oxford Sired, London.
Catalogues Free. - 71 •*


Vic. Government intends next session to
submit an Act which will give the State absolute
control over all exported produce. At present it
can only refuse to put the Government brand on
bad butter, cheese, fruit, &c., with the result that
these goods are sent along “on their own.” Then
it sometimes happens that they turn up mysteri-
ously at the other end with a bogus stamp on them,
and the Govt, brand, which was meant to be a
guarantee of excellence and to ensure that Vic.
produce would bring the best price in the market,
loses a lot of its value. The new idea means that
inferior produce will be prohibited from leaving
the country at all, which will make Vic. exports
sommand the best prices going, and compel the
Vic. producer to brace up and stop turning out a
bad article. Theoretically the idea is a first-class
outrage on the liberty of the subject, who has an
unquestionable right to send away dirty butter
ind decayed fruit if he wants to, and thus bring
Vic. goods into disrepute. Practically, however,
It has a lot to recommend it.
Cynicism—Enthusiasm dipped in experi-
ence.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Pretty soon newspaper reporters and pen-
women will need to band together for protection
against the pale snufflebuster who is tempted to
creep stealthily into their godless profession. A
shorthand-class for either sex has been formed in
Melbourne, the fee including membership of the
Y.M.C.A. or Y.W.C.A., “with all privileges”
appertaining thereto. If stenography is to fall
into the flabby paws of early pietists, journalism
will do worse than go to the devil. It will become
converted until the character of the average para-
graph is above suspicion, and the bold cross-
heading of to-day is replaced by an announcement
that “ Deeming has found Rest in the Lord,” or
“ Bill Sikes has Sinned Again.”
Horses, Sheep and Cattle Ailments
VETEEINAEY BOOK free with every bottle, containing full instructions for the
treatment and cure of suffering animals. Insist on having CONDY’S FLUID.
Condy & Mitchell, of London, England, are the sole manufacturers.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists.
Speedily Cured by “ Condy’s Fluide”
HOTEL . . .
. . AUSTRALIA.
prom the ||isitors’ Book.
MAX O’RELL.
“ Sydney has as much right to be as
proud of this hotel as of her harbor.”
SARA BERNHARDT.
“ May I be always treated as well as I
have been treated at the Australia.”
RATES:
From 12S. 6D. PER DAY up-
wards—inclusive of all meals.
N. Edwio Woorc,
MANAGER.
CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
FROZEN MEAT EXPORT.
Messrs. BERGL & BRA.BBIN have the honor to inform the pastoralists of Queensland that
they are now able to offer the very best facilities for them to send their surplus stock home. They
can have their stock treated on owners’ account, either at Bowen or Gladstone, and disposed of to
very best possible advantage in England by the SAME FIRM. If treated at any of the other works,
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin will be most happy to take charge of their shipments on arrival in London,
and are sure that their charges, and especially the PERSONAL attention given to each consignment,
will give satisfaction. For full particulars apply
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin,
LONDON, LIVERPOOL, etc., ENGLAND. SYDNEY. BOWEN, GLADSTONE.
Attention, Please!
ASTONISHING, isn’t it, that eighty out of every hundred manufacturers of Hair Restorers are
positively bald ! Under the circumstances, it is not surprising that we are fast becoming a bald-
headed people ! “ Physician, heal thyself ! ” could be most appropriately applied to these impostors
and charlatans. I can destroy all parasital growth as it affects the hair directly, but THESE parasites
I cannot remove. Their life or death is in your hands. Hitherto they have reaped a rich harvest at
your expense. The result is the premature loss of your hair. You can stop their little game by
refusing to buy their nostrums. If you suffered from any ailment of body you would not consult a
bricklayer or a carpenter. You would go direct to a doctor who had made it a life’s study. Why
should you continue to use preparations that are manufactured by people who do not possess even an
elementary knowledge of the “ Hair and its treatment ? ”
Send two stamps for my Illustrated Pamphlet on the “Hair and its Treatment.” To all who
desire a good head of hair, it is worth its weight in gold. Every person who wishes to escape pre-
mature baldness cannot do better than use my
Marvellous Hair Restorer.
Thousands of Testimonials to hand prove that it contains all the essential elements necessary to
produce and to keep healthy a good head of hair.
PRICE —3s, 4s, ss, lOs 6<J, 12s 6d per BOTTLE. Postage 9d extra.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
RELIEF
from
COUGH
HAYMANS
7JT4
Jit
(ML
z
ML
m
•i
’L
IN
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Coug-h.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & Co., London. Price is. lstf. and 2s. 9d.
% 1 MM
•V M
SON OF Mr. LOCKWOOD, GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
EED
ON
ARHOTT’S
IDilk Jjrrouiroot Biscuits.
The Children’s Food.
Preparation :
FOR INFANTS -First crush the Biscuits, then pour enough boiling
water on them to give them either through the feeding-bottle or with
a spoon. OLDER CHILDREN may eat them without preparation.
THE
‘ Plum ’
rg
THE
* Plum’
> y i
GENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years, y
p • I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
nce (.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful crys'e, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
df
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HOHHEUR,
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY :
Borsdorff & Go.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
20 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
AND AT
Adelaide & H
obart
Trade Mark.
EE?
&
sz
-f.
HD
/
*
%
*
ONDERFUL CURE for
Influenza, Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
Bronchitis, Sore Throats,
And all Lung Complaints.
- ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
onningtons
Never Fails.
IRISH MOSS
ear Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
A Pure Tobacco Dip. Best and Cheapest in the Market.
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP.
gd
Atoßolxitely Destroys Ticks and Lice. Prevents Scab Footrot.
Nicotine Mange Cure (in bottles), i-pts., 1/6 ; pts., 2/6 each. Nicotine Blight Cure (in bottles), ±- p ts,, 1/6 ; pts., 2/6 each.
A/V tSBER, LObLMANN & CO., “Rialto,” Collins-street IELBOUB.NE; 63 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.


0
A
V
* .
13
one of the best amongst several Eminent Makers whose fine instruments are being shown by
This is
Limited
IN THEIR SHOWROOMS, 338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
u n Your best security is to buy from an OLD ESTABLISHED PTANO WAKE-
nnA 1 ! th t best niake f Ts OfTaLUF and whose interest if is to GIVE SATISFACTION. Taking the quality into account,
HOUSE, whose nstrumtnts are chea])er than any others in the market. We sell at the lowest prices for CASH, or on the
our Pianos and other Musical that we Jn only the best, and give the greatest satisfaction, we may state that we
CiTALoa " ES POST on
Easy terms if required.
Brass Bai)d lo£tr£in)€i)tS
by Boosey and Co. and Besson and Co., of London, the only two reliable makers
Wind and String Instruments in Great Variety and Low Price.
Violins Bows, Cases and Strings. A« O rd€OoS, Concertinas Mouth Organs, Banjos,
Guitars, Mandolines, and all kinds of Musical Instruments and Fittings.
Wholesale ai)d Retail.
rvrV
■A.
Q-Hn BfP
V-/-
.
H
mmm
mam
or
o
&
UJ
iSrXT^)
linßiiiito
in<*
Q
THE BIG DRUDK AT DRUMMONDS
Darkness had fallen over the long, sandy
itretches of beach on Drummond’s Island. One
oy one fires were lit and gleamed among the
aouses and canoes that lined the western shore.
Women emerged from the dwellings with unlit
torches, and placed them beside the boats of their
husbands, about to go in quest of flying-fish—
murmuring the while, in their harsh tongue, a
chant to drive away the devils of the night. To
the people of most of the Kingsmill and Gilbert
islands the night is full of terrors, of un-
known demons and lurking dangers. And,
above all the other natives in the group, the
sun-tanned, wild-eyed man of average Taputeuea
(Drummond’s Island) is, in the broad light of day,
talkative, vociferous and quarrelsome; at night,
unless in the glare of a fire, sullen, morose and
timid.
Such were they when Wilkes, the American
commodore, had his bloody encounter with them
at Utiroa, and such are they to this present day.
Many white men have lived among them. Some
died violent deaths. Others, protected by power-
ful chiefs, and married to women of the island,
came through safely and lived and traded there in
peace—except when a ship came, and they bought
square gin. Then there was usually trouble.
* * * *
Three women were hastening away from
the canoes to the houses ; a fourth, throwing her
bundle of torches upon a canoe, hastened after
them, her grass airiri swishing to and fro about
her knees. She was fat and clumsy, and cursed
the three for leaving her.
“ Whither goest, pig-face, in such haste ? ” she
snarled to one of the others, a young woman,
placing her grimy, toil-worn hand on the girl’s
smooth shoulder.
The others laughed. “Pig-face, “Rat-eye,”
and “Shark-mouth” are, in the Line Islands,
analogous to Dr. Johnson’s alleged definition of
certain uncouth words as terms of endearment
among sailors.
“To the white man’s. Come there with us and
see. Timi (Jim) and three others are ashore from
the ship ; they have opened a box of te rom (gin),
and have musio; and Timi hath sent word to
Tibarian for all the men of Utiroa to come and
dance in view of his doorway.”
“ Hah,” grunted fat Riungo, “ and here are we
four fools carrying torches to the canoes. I tell
thee there will be no fish to-night. What man
will go a-fishing when that devil of a white-man
bringeth a red box of te rom to his house and
sayeth ‘ dance ’ ? ”
“ Hold thy peace, old fish-eyed devil! If the
men drink and lie down like hogs we can at least
steal some biscuit; for Timi’s wife and the wives
of the other men will be drunk, too. ’Tis our
ohance—hasten.”
* * * *
The four white traders were “having a
time.” They had sold their copra to the German
barque at a good price, been paid in cash, and for
once in their lives came ashore sober—because the
German skipper, bearing in mind his one previous
visit to the island, was careful to give them noth-
ing stronger to drink than lager-beer. One com-
bined purchase from him he delayed producing
till the last moment, when it was hoisted up from
the hold and lowered into the boat—four cases of
gin.
The captain took very good-naturedly the
sarcastic allusions made by the traders to the
tendency of the Teutonic nation in general to
accumulate fat in the head, and presented each on
leaving with a box of cigars. But he heaved a
sigh of relief as he saw the boat, paddled by a
crowd of fierce-eyed Taputeueans, shove off and
head for the shore.
* * * *
“ Tell you what, boys, said Jim, who was
playing an accordeon. “That Dutch skipper
ain’t a bad sort, after all. Here we are, enjoyin’
ourselves in A 1 style, all nice an’ friendly an’ not
a angry word passed yet. Now, if we’d opened
that square-face aboard the barque, where’d we be
now ? Help yourselves. ”
“Drunk, Jim, drunk as pigs, that’s where we’d
be,” said one of his guests, essaying with unsteady
hand to light a cigar. “Yes, he’s all right, an’
we might have been a bit more civil. You was the
man that called him a fat-headed Dutchman,
k i, , , . ,
Well, what if I did . said the big man, stop-
middle of an air from L Afncame.
Why, tain t gentlemanly, said a dark long-
faced man. Haow would yew like to be told
that your grandfather was hanged for smuggling
id -tiull .
There was a sudden scuffling of feet, and the
four men dosed for a minute or two. Then the
faithful and watchful wives and the native on-
r l ls “ e( J m . an ~ separated them.
Mutual apologies followed. Iwo empty bottles
were taken oft the table and a fresh one opened.
Then the big man sang a song—something about
daisies and a rustic bridge—and they all grew very
sentimental.
* * * *
The dark-faced man had just finished an
air on a blackened old banjo, when a sudden idea
occurred to the big man, suggested by a broad
gleam of moonlight falling upon the crowd of
natives that clustered around outside the house,
With somewhat unsteady steps he gained the door
and spoke to them.
“ How’s the tide ? ” _
“ Coming in,” they said; “ what about it ?
u Mian tno boat,” replied the big man, and
mind your own business. ” _
A submissively-chorused E rai rai Timi ( It
is good, Jim ”) answered him, and then the trader
turned to his white colleagues.
* * T . * „ * .. ~
Boys, look here. . It s a nne moonlight
night, an’ the tide’s coming. Let’s all go aboard
again and sweeten up the Dutch skipper. We’ll
all make him apologies an’ spin him cuffers.
Maybe he’ll come ashore with us an’ we’ll fill him
up. Are ye on ? ”
But the women objected. Te kdpeni (the cap-
tain) would be asleep. Besides, they were drunken
men (here an indignant denial from one of the
accused), and it was wrong for them to go away
and leave their wives with all this liquor in the
house, and so many natives from the other village
knocking about to try and steal it.
“That’s all right, my beauties,” said Jim —
“ we’ll lock up the house and take you all along
with us—and a case of liquor, too—in case we
misses the ship,” he added with a laugh.
* * * *
The women grumbled, but obeyed. They
are pearls of great price, these savage Line Island
women—unquestioning obedience and unswerving
fidelity to the white man are to them a second
nature. So they gathered themselves and their
children together and followed the four traders
down to the boat. The big man took the steer-oar
and the lug sail was set. The* breezy trade wind
whistled across from the ocean through the narrow
strip of cocoanuts that lay between the weather
side of the island with its roaring, thundering
surf, and the placid waters of the lee.
“ Ho, children of my heart,” said the big trader,
slapping on his tattooed back the native nearest to
him, “come and steer, the while I give thee all
some rom.”
A bottle was taken out of the box and each
native given a stiff drink. Then the four white
men lit fresh cigars and, lying in the boat,
watched her cutting her way over the moonlit sea.
She was of German build, long, narrow-gutted,
heavy, and utterly unable to beat but under her
big lug-sa-il and with the wind well aft she slipped
quickly through the water,
* * * *
Two miles off they could see the Saturn
lying head to wind and right ahead, the rays of
the moon tipping the tracery of her spars with
lines of silver. In another ten minutes the boat had
d over the wes tern reef and met the faint in-
COHling ocean swe ll.
“ Timi ” called out a native who satin the bows;
« let us paddle as weU as an d get to the ship
quickly.”
1 << yyjY 9 »
“Look.” He pointed astern. They lazily
turned their heads and looked towards the shore,
and saw that the long, dark line of cocoanuts and
white shining beach were covered by a squall of
i n ky blackness, bearing down upon them from the
eas tward
“Tarnation; there’s rain in that as well as
wind ! Paddles out, lads, and let’s try and get
aboard before it catches us. Give ’em all another
good rousin’ nip, an’ we’ll have one ourselves to
keep us from catchin’ cold.”
Now, when a Kingsmill native has had two
half-tumblers of strong gin he is either ready to
be merry or fight. In this case it was the former,
and the wild crew, plunging their paddles into the
seeth of the flying waters, broke into a wild chant.


About Dress-Suits. —Gentlemen residing
in the country will find that Hordern’s, in Pitt-
street, Sydney, system of self -measurement is a
complete success, and a perfect-fitting garment is
guaranteed. They are supplying Dress-Suits to
order for Four Guineas (elsewhere quoted at five
al jd six guineas). Write for samples of cloth,
which are forwarded free. All drapery parcels
are sent free per parcels post—a great saving to
country residents, especially when can buy at
our noted cheapest prices. *
ff
■-iff*
fV
IFI
!S>»S
Mv ■■sanitAs" J$
'SANITAS" . . "SANITAS'
-UR TWO REGISTERED TRADE MARKS.
"SANITAS”
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN.
DISINFECTANT, ANTISEPTIC.
AND DEObORANTcoMBiNio.
'A PEOPtCS HEALTH IS A NATION'S WEAIW
T «t SANITAS COMPANY LIMITED' I
■0 DETHNAL CBEtN, LONDON*. rJ
ISINFECT
fluid
ih J
DISINFECTION WITH “ SANITAS.”
A searching investigation recently made by Dr. A. R. Griffiths, F.R.S.E., F.C.S. the well-
mown Bacteriologist lias established the fact that very minute proportions of “ San it as”
I luid, Sanitas Oil and “ Samtas ” Emulsion sutlice to quickly destroy the microbes of
Cholera Diphtheria, Typhoid Fever, Scarlet Fever, Pneumonia, Measles, Influenza
Puerperal Fever, Glanders, Yellow Fever, &c. ’
,J fc h a s also been shown that the vapour of “Sanitas” Oil, as generated from the
Sanitas Disinfecting Fumigator, has a most destructive action on the uerms of
tliat consequently its inhalation must be most beneficial in the treatment
of Diphtheria, Phthisis, and all Diseases of the Lungs and Throat.
When used for fumigating sick rooms, Dr. Griffiths’ experiments show that a short time
selves to destroy all tlie germs that are present in the air.
His experiments also demonstrate that when “Sanitas” Fluid is sprayed about dwelling
rooms, the microbes of disease are entirely and quickly and that small
quantities of Sanitas Emulsion equally well destroy {lie same germs when present
in water. Of great importance is the further fact which is brought out by Dr Griffiths’
investigations namely, that not only do “Sanitas” Disinfectants kill a/disease mrms
but they exhibit this great advantage over ot'mr preparations—namely, that they also
destroy the poisonous substances which are pro laced by disease genus and to which
they largely owe their fearful character. 1
Dr. Griffiths concludes his Report with these word-:
MEDICAL PRESS EXTRACTS.
“‘Sanitas is a valuable disinfectant, having certain advantages over all others.”
„, c , . , Medical l J rens and Circular.
Sanitas now enjoys general favour as a disinfectant.”— Lancet.
“‘Sanitas’has met with wide recognition and approval.” —British Medical Journal.
Copies of Dr. Griffiths’ Report (and others) will be sent Free on
application to the Office of this paper, or to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, MELBOURNE.
Sanitas
disinfecting
powder
directions for use
“Qamtas- powder 's no n n d
poisonous and fragrant. *
f® n , erates ' b V slow evaporation)
ve oxygenated and Bron \ VD
healthful vapours of Pine a. d EucalVP
tus Forests.
* 'Place In saucers aßout the
f Keep about a 'able-spoonM 1
* chamber utensils , ...
3 - Keep a tin for use in even c '“ s ,
4 - 'Sprinkle It over all drains twice
week.
6 \ - Place about a lable-spoonfo' in •
spittoons.
Sprinkle It freely about sl»b'»’ y
Kennels, cow sheds, pig sties,
houses, rabbit hutches, farm V Br ...
COW' sheds, j
n°uses, rabbit hutche*. - :
JPaeket places, faci ones. url! ftls
b| ns. & c .
7 ~for disinfecting walls,
ca[l| c trucks -and slaughter -h°
"'“he the pow der into a wash or n*'|
by admixim e witn water and apP'V
ln thai form
floors o
the
,nd
8 Use u (or scruhm...
ospitals and workhouses,
becks ol sh , us
price of this t,n '
1-
TH E SANITAS CO.,
THREE colt lane.
Bethnal green, London.
And the white men, just drunk enough to be ami-
able with the whole world, urged them on with
loud hurrahs.
* * * *
Presently the first puff of the squall struck
them and the boat leaped to it and shot along
like an arrow.
“ Timi,” called out the man in the bows, who
knew what he was saying, “ we cannot get to the
sin]) before the rain and the wind are upon us.
Let us take down the sail, and bring her head to
the wind till its strength be gone.”
‘‘ Why so, fool, ” asked the white man, “ art thou
afraid of the rain or thy skin?”
“ ’Tis not the rain I fear, Turn. There is much
wind coming and but little rain ; and we have no
oars in the boat, only these paddles. It is better,
I say, for us to lie-to, head to wind. See, already
the sea breaks, and with paddles alone we cannot
regain the ship if we fail to get alongside when
the wind is strong as this.”
“Give that talker another drink of rom,” said
the big trader, “and let him hold his tongue, an’
let’s have another ourselves.”
The native pushed the glass aside, and glared
angrily-at his master.
Another bottle was opened and finished.
* * * •
Two men, with rifles in their hands, were
keeping anchor-watch on the barque. The one
for’ard saw the squall coming and called the mate,
and, at the same time, reported a boat right ahead.
Always needlessly apprehensive of the people of
Drummond’s Island, the mate roused out the cap-
tain, and in a few minutes every man was armed
and tremblingly expecting an attempted cutting-
off party.
In a few minutes the first puff that had struck
the boat whistled through the rigging of the
barque, and as she strained at her cable the white
horses bumped and thrashed up against her bows,
and sped away astern.
Presently the captain, glasses in hand, turned to
the mate and said :
“ Send the hands below, Stunner. It’s only the
white men coming aboard. Drunk, I suppose.
Here they are, close to. Stand-by there, someone,
with a line ; and damn them, I say, for coming
aboard at this time.”
A sailor stood by ready to heave a line. Then
they heard the notes of an accordeon playing
“ Farewell, my ole Kentucky home.”
* * * *
After the first few drops of rain the black-
ness of the squall lifted and the wind tore fiercely
from the eastward. In the boat, which was now
racing down before the driving sea upon the
barque, merriment and harmony still prevailed.
Haif a cable length from the ship those on board
saw no attempt was being made to take in her
sail. In the bright moonlight she sped down, now
rising on the top of a long swell, now sinking in
the trough. In another minute or so she was
abeam, and the big man, still playing his accor-
deon and bawling out something that was never
understood by those in the barque, passed with his
white companions and native crew away to the
westward —n u, 'er again to be seen alive of men.
* * * *
“Poor devils,” said the German captain ;
“ I suppose they saw they couldn’t safely come
alongside without filling, and kept on for the fun
of the thing, meaning to pass under our stern and
bear up to the south’ard, where they would get
under the lee of the land again. I suppose, though,
they found she wouldn’t do it, and had to keep
dead before the wind. If they have water in the
boat, and any food, they may have a chance.”
* * * *
Three months afterwards a boat drifted
ashore on the weather side of the Sir Charles Hardy
Group, fifteen hundred miles to the westward.
There, huddled together in the bottom, was a
dreadful mass of decaying mortality.
In the locker of the stern-sheets lay an aceor-
deon.
LOUIS BEOKE.
W.Q. cattle-owners out Hughenden way
profess little alarm about the Coming Tick. Say
they had him (also her) two years ago, and the
nuisance gradually died out.
The Westralian telegram-muddle hasn’t yet
been unmuddled, but people have got tired of
talking about it. One of its chief causes is the
absolute incompetence of lots of W.A. telegraph-
officials. When an operator is sacked in the
eastern provinces—for drink, stupidity, neglect of
duty, anything—off he goes to Hip Van Winkle-
land by first boat, and duly sends next month’s
W.A. Govt. Gazette for his cronies to spell out
his name in.
A swagwoman on the way to South Aus-
tralia was arrested in Bendigo the other day as a
vagrant. She had tramped from Sydney. The
Bench discharged her with a caution. Woman
may now, without much loss of dignity, even in
the eyes of Fossildom, travel across Australia on a
bicycle if she pleases, but when she takes to trudg-
ing along on her own proper legs, she is looked
upon as a vagabond.
The Mayor of South Melbourne and
a brother councillor made a futile attempt
to remain in the To wn Hall whilst the election-
votes were counted, and the returning-officer
seems to have genuine cause of complaint against
the police for not obeying his instructions to sling
the municipal intruders off the premises. Subse-
quently the returning-officer would have an-
nounced the result from the usual balcony of a
first-floor room, but found himself shut out by
order of the Mayor. Which petty revenge was
quite in keeping with civic dignity.
The latest “assaulted female ” up to date
lays her accustomed accusation against a Vic.
engine-driver. A train was leaving Dandenong
just as dusk was becoming night, when a large,
shrieking she-person swarmed up on the locomo-
tive and started to claw the driver and fireman.
Then she danced a fandango on the foot-plate, and
wanted to drive the engine herself, and yelled
“Fire” and “Murder.” The two officials ulti-
mately got her down, and took turns at sitting on
her till they reached the next stopping-place,
where she was given into custody. Next morning,
when she had calmed down somewhat, she laid
the regulation charge of assault, but it was
immediately dismissed from want of evi-
dence. The department, however, in its mildly
wooden fashion, has suspended the driver for
contravention of bye - law 714£ prohibiting
him “taking any stranger on his engine.”
Which is a warning to the next driver, when a
frantic lady climbs on his locomotive while in
motion, to straightway heave her off and let her
drop on her ear upon the ballast. It is remarkable
how a department can decide, after a week’s calm
thought in an office, what a man ought to do at a
moment’s notice when a wild-cat person, who
seems to have dropped from the clouds, starts
biting him on a moving engine in the dark.
“How the movement is spreading,” writes
a Hannan’s (W.A.) correspondent to The Bulls
tin. “I saw to-day a woman working a con
denser, and a few yards further on— more remark
able than all—a female ‘ dry blowing.’ We have
clerks galore here. . . . At church last night I
counted 95 men and five women. Different
Melb. or Adelaide.” Ir0B1
Whitehead, aguard on the N.S. W. Southern
line, while engaged in shunting a truck from his
tram a few weeks ago, slipped, and the truck went
over one of his hands, all but severing two fingers
Rising, he called out to a porter to sprag the truck'
Had he not done so, a bad smash would have
occurred. Then he attended to other duties and
got his train in order before asking permission to
go to the hospital to have the injury attended to
He has since had the fingers amputated.
One of the chief duties of a Judge is not
to know anything that isn t formally communi-
cated to him in court. Therefore, in the ’Possum
Dean divorce-case, N.S.W. Judge Simpson
remarked interrogatively to petitioner: “Your
husband was not hanged, Mrs. Dean?” and
petitioner replied that he wasn’t. Evidently if
he had been hanged, and his wife was still in want
of a divorce, he must have been hanged verv
badly. J
The cheap and docile Kanaka broke out
again, the other day, at Bundaberg (Q.) when 20
Malay tans “lay for” and murderously chopped
two Gilbert Islanders. They had no quarrel with
these particular islanders, but sometime previously
another Gilbert nig., who was whooping loosely on
the highway, had scared a horse which damaged a
Malaytan woman in running away, and though he
solaced the bruised lady with £1 damages the
tribe felt called upon to go out with its axe. The
Kanaka murderer and the leper are now the two
most reliable institutions in the Great Scaly Land.
Dear Bulletin,— “ A well-known clergy-
man has started a labor church in Melbourne.’
—Argus. Has he? The only labor church
I ever saw (excepting among some Oriental
and African peoples) was in Lanark, Scotland.
There Rev. James Manson borrowed the Town
Hall on Sunday evenings and held service therein.
The title of admission consisted in not possessing
a bonnet or coat, and old Malison’s own clothes
were of the shabbiest, although he was a married
mail. On Wednesday he had a prayer-meeting
for miners at Rosebank, working dress insisted
on. Moreover, he received no stipend, built a
church and paid an assistant to preach in it
Apropos of pay, I found on an ash-heap in Urana
an account-book labelled—“ Church.of England
Stipend Fund. Names of Subscribers who have
Paid.” There were no names in it. The custom
in Urana is to present the parson with a buggy.
He always sells it on leaving so as to plead poverty
in his next billet. That buggy is an income to
the johnny-all-sorts and the coach-painter. Par-
sons don’t stop long in Urana.— Scotty the
Wrinkler.
A Society Romance .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Although Maud Armadale and Cyril Bak-
trax had been sweethearts since childhood, their
love was not pneumatically tired, and meddlesome
relatives were constantly breaking up the roadway
for them. Cyril was a poor clerk too lowly graded
in the bank to have opportunities for any brilliant
dishonesty. Maud Armadale had the rich dower
of rare beauty which her parents felt satisfied
could, with judicious management, be boomed in
the matrimonial market. As is the custom with
parents in the very best society, Mr. and Mrs.
Armadale put every objection in the way of the
union of the lovers ; but Maud was a Victorian
girl, and, although she did not belong to the
Austral Salon, had a will of her own. When she
was laying in a stock of husband, she determined
to do her own sampling.”
“If I am going to marry,” she told her father,
“ I am going to choose the man for myself.
In stolen interviews with her lover she repeated
her resolve and punctuated it with kisses. She
would wait for ever —even longer —for him until
he had saved enough to take her to see Pastor
Kinsman. Then he told her that, though it wrung
his heart-strings to leave her, he had an offer to go
to Westralia and that he could soon make a com-
petence.
And she swore to be true to him through all the
years to come, and that wild horses could never
drag her to the altar with any other man than
Cyril.
» * * *
The months flew by. The usual treachery was
played on Maud. Cyril’s letters were intercepted
and, eventually, ceased. Maud was hurried round
the various shambles of the marriage meat-market.
Many offers were made, but she remained firm to
her early love. Time and absence, however, did
their work, and the persistence of the young
squatter, Lambswool, prevailed. A year after
Cyril’s departure she consented, to the undisguised
delight of her parents, to become the squatter’s
wife.
On the day before that fixed for the marriage,
Maud sat looking dazedly at a telegram telling of
Cyril’s return, and his intention to call on her
that day. All the remorse of a traitress began to
throb in her breast. What could she plead when
Cyril learnt the ghastly truth ? All the old love
rushed back upon her as she heard his ring at the
bell, his well-remembered footstep in the hall.
“ Maud! ”
“ Cyril ! ”
Then there was a terrible silence. He had
evidently learned of her approaching marriage,
yet hesitated to begin his reproaches.
“ You have been fort i ~: in the West, Cyril ? ”
she asked tremulously.
“Beyond my wildest expectations,” he replied.
“I am wealthy—and I—l have come to —to tell
you ”
“Stop,” she shrieked wildly, “Oh, kill me,
Cyril, in mercy kill me ! lam to be married to-
morrow.”
A glad light leaped into his eyes as he seized
her in his arms.
“My own true girl; and I was married last
month.”
And, as he folded her in his embrace, the
shadow of the divorce-court loomed large upon
the re-united lovers.
GUY FOX.


NERVOUS DEBILITY
Resulting from Impoverished Blood,
Cured by the Use of
Ayers Sarsaparilla.
* (l \v V.->P' **
m
Read the following remarkable testimony of Mrs. M. A. Helleur, of
Sussex St., North Adelaide, So. Australia, whose portrait is given above:
“Some years ago, I suffered very severely from soreness and general
weakness of the system, being so badly affected that I feared even to go
from one room to another, on account of the strange objects that appeared
to flit before me. My doctor, after treating me for some time, without
any benefit, at last recommended me to try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I took
his advice, and am pleased to say that the effect was really wonderful.
Vigour was restored to my system, my nerves were strengthened, my spirits
brightened, and I was enabled to return to my usual occupations. I might
say that several of my friends and relatives have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
with like beneficial results. I believe it to be the best health-restorer
that has ever been offered to the suffering masses.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
With Highest Awards at the World’s Great Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS, for Biliousness and Indigestion
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.'
ESTAB. 2IfYEARS.
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
. , " M y youngest daughter was cured of a very heavy cold before she had
‘ eu the second bottle, when in a weak state, and has been stronger ever
since. All my family use it now with great benefit when they have colds.”
E. EVANS, Chapel House, Abermule.
lIJSSA lUMVV
Jung Tonic.
'•I have been travelling many years, exposed to all kinds of weather, and
have suffered intensely with my chest. Your Lung Tonic, I am happy to
say, has done my wife and I more good than all the doctors' medicines put
together.” GEORGE PRICE, 227 Liverpool Street, Pendleton.
Try it for Consumption,
it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma
Try
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and lls., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Oolonial Houses.
BX" THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
“Worth a Guinea a Box.”
PEIWS
—FOR ALL —
Bilions & Nervous Disorders
SUCH AS
Sich Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver & Female Ailments.
largest sale of any patent medicine in the world,
Being over 6,000,000 Boxes Yearly.
Beeeham’s Cough Pills
STAND UNRIVALLED FOR
Coughs, Asthma, Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, etc.
In Boxes, 93,d., Is. 13,d., and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions
The Is. ljd. Box contains 56 Fills.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
RECOMMENDS ITSELE. It is Efficacious, Economical,
Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and is a Reliable,
and Pleasant Dentifrice.
In Collapsible Tubes, of all Druggists, One Shilling 1 .
PREPARED ONLY BY THE PROPRIETOR,
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
EAYHABEUT, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND —
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS & CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE,
EIGHTS, BULLY, A 1 CURLS, LEGER
WILLIAMS.
CAN’T BE BEAT, THREE
TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
CIGARS,
viz. :
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS,
(Heavy Weights), HIGH LIFE
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
YIOLETA, LA PAROLA, EL MUNDI
(P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons Furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-payment
&F Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade sup-
plied cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
11 AYMA ll k ET, SYDNEY.
3*l
PM.
KL2
r
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS
(WINNING. 2ND WEIK.
specifics, etc., when I '
that is a complete curt
young and old men.
sealed. Address,
Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,
will send you FREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
e for Nervousness and Failing Manly Vigor in
The Homoeopathic Treatment cures in four weeks. All letters sent
Dr. IRVING CO., 60 Elizabeth St., Sydney.


DO YOU USE
Oil.
IF SO
you OU6HT
to purchase one of Wells’
Waste-Oil Filters,
you will then only have
. TO BUY .
IN ANY
QUANTITY ?
Oil occasionally, as the Dirty
Oil can be used over again.
Therefore, go to "Wimble’s, 87 Clarence-st.
oadobt™ _ n f| LTER _
that will save its own cost in six months.
ARTIFICIAL PERFUMES.
CAUTION !
Messrs. J. & E. ATKINSON warn
their customers against the Artificial
Chemical Perfumes at present so
extensively offered. Though strong
they are nasty , and from a hygienic
point of view their use is to be strongly
deprecated.
ATKINSON’S "NATURAL” PERFUMES
are made from flowers, and possess all their
natural fresh sweetness. They cannot be
surpassed either in delicacy or strength.
ATKINSON'S “WHITE ROSE,”
‘ A charming scent ’ -H. R.H. The Duchess of York.
J-cfe E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St., London.
6 6 rjMALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ARE— Aj |
\Y. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
/SPOONS
AT THE
“ THE BLOCK,”
& FORKS
SHOW-ROOMS,
03 York Street, SYDKTEY,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
CYCLING! CYCLING! CYCLING!
Outside Tyre Covers
Internal Tubes
Non-slipping Bands
Yalves
Valve Tubing
Solution
[Pedal Rubbers
-j Cork & Rubber Handles
[Repairing Rubber Sheet
CUSHION and SOLID TYRES.
CYCLE CAPES.
LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK. CALL or WRITE FOR PRICE-LIST.
The India Rubber, Gutta Percha
& Telegraph Works Go. Ltd.
Sydney Branch. : 283 GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter-street).
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fisk, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade-for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents Everywhere. H. P.A.TESON, IVIaNAGER.
Tb« NEW “LIP-FLAN<SE” FRUE VANNER BELT.
“ Will ootlast Two of tbe Ordinary.”
Genuine “ Frue ” Belts (obtainable only from
the patentees or their authorised agents) have, owing
to the great care and attention paid to their manu-
facture, invariably given good satisfaction, but, after
being in use a long time, the old flange had a ten-
dency to become weak and lose its vertical position.
This prevented the machine carrying the proper depth
of load, and allowed the sand to slop over and get
into the bearings. The new “ Lip-Flange,” which
SH
SECTIONAL VIEW OF FLANGE.
has just been patented throughout the colonies, does
away with this difficulty almost entirely. It is
made of a very superior and elastic rubber prepared
in a special manner, and its peculiar shape prevents
it cracking in going over the rollers, or losing its
vertical position. All “ Frue Vanners ” sold in the
future will be fitted with this new “ Lip-Flange ”
Belt without additional charge, and the belts them-
selves may be procured from the patentees at a very
slight advance on the old price.
PATENTEES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA:
Parke & Lacy Con>paoy, Limited, Sydney-
Agency : 21 and 23 FREMONT STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, CAE.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class of Worn. Agents Everywhere.
TALES OF THE COMVICT SYSTEM
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
« DiVGOKTET ” Cb.am.pa,gne. EXTRA SUP. DRY.
ti irg CO’S Sherries. IN BULK and CASE.
“ iyf /V -RTPOSA ” Cigars. In 50 and 100 BOXES.
The above can now be bad from the SOLE AGENTS— _
SCOTT, SIBBALD & CO.,
20 ROND STREET. SYDNEY.
NOW IS YOUR CHANCE!
BUY
(FRAGRANT AROMA.
EXQUISITE FLAVOR.
RELIABLE QUALITY.
GOOD CONDITION.
#
Mallo Cigars—4 for Is.
A credit to the Smoker, equal to any 6d. Havana Oigar, and a pleasure to his friends.
gd
P* R. Larkin
—FOE—
Wines, Spirits & Beers.
India, China and Ceylon Teas (new shipments arriving monthly).
The Safest, Most Reliable and Cheapest House in Sydney.
No Spurious or Adulterated Goods Offered.
PLEASE SEND FOR PRICE LISTS.
SELECT REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES and GENTLEMEN ADJOINING
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL.
P. P. Larkin,
Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant,
778, 780, 782 & 784 George-street,
HAYMARKET SYDNEY-
