

MeMWAN’S ALU.
WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
fdhfd
<RACkA«ocK>
•)
». s
V
o
R. A. H'ERVEY, Agent, 28 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
DRINK
GUP BLEND TEA
■*; ", . - -v
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
AIL storekeepers';.
/at /V. V. tV. & QUEENSLAND.
m
T-J
ROBERTS’
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
ds and 2s per bottle .
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
Whisky, 3/9
The Favorite (t Four Crown ”
Whisky, 3/9
Roberts’ Special Whisky for
Influenza.
Very Superior old Port Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney.
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
*/**%&&
W 6^
Before viyih'njj fhe Of/ write to the Manager for
Card ej Tariff. (orre;pQn<Jence prompfly attended to.
»»t
h
fdh
Ill*
A
1
ERS FURNITURE
WM. WALKER, SONS, Sc BARTHOLOMEW, LTD,
357 George Street,
SYDNEY.
119 Bunhill Row,
LONDON.
Use 44 Pioneer” Sole Leather
f fdh
SUP PORT YOUR OYV N
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIA N INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
ARE
Tanned Bl Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
J, C, UJDOWIcTa SON, Ltd,
TANNERS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery : Lane Cove River.
D ™- c Bubec. dubec.
No purer and higher class Egyptian Cigarettes & Turkish
Tobacco on the globe than DUfiEC. Growers, Manu-
facturers and Exporters: COL'S IS & CO., Ca valla
Yenidge, Macedonia Turkey, Cairo and Malta (estab. 1872).
The BUBEC Cigarettes are obtainable from all
the leading Clubs, Tobacconists and Hotels throughout
the world. Prices —In Tins (extra large size), 100. 7/6 ;
50, 4/-; Packets of 10, 1/-. Medium size in tins, 100, 6,6 ;
50, 36. Small size in packets of 10, 6d.
The DUBEC Cigarettes are recommended by
DOCTORS of ALL NATIONS, and are smoked by
LADIES in the highest circles at Home after meals, and
are an excellent aid to Digestion, and also an excellent
CURE for Asthma. Suppliers to their Excellencies
the Governors of Australia, also the officers of the
Army and Navy. Fresh shipments are received by every
mail steamer. Sole Import Depot for Australasia :
The Turc-c-Egyptian Tobacco & Cigarette Company,
108 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W. [Estab. 18S9.
HE LAST OF SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
erer situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
' any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
JF YOU HAVE
A Cough or Cold
—TAKE—
Black •
® Currant
balsam.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
1/6 and 2/6 per Bottle.
The Bulletin
Vol. 17.—N0. 864.]
[ Saturday, September 5, 1896.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Poßt as a Newspaper.


WHILE THE BILLY BOILS:
AUSTRALIAN STORIES.
By HENRY LAWSON.
Author of “In the Days when the World was
Wide.”
Crown Bvo, cloth, gilt top, with eight full-page platei
and Vignette title by F. P. Mahony, 55.; post
free, ss. 6d.
CONTENTS:
An Old Mate of Your
Father’s
Settling on the Land
Enter Mitchell
Stiffner and Jim
When the Sun Went Down
The Man Who Forgot
Hungerford
A Camp-Fire Yarn
His Country—After All
A Day on a Selection
That. There Dog o’ Mine
Going Blind
Arvie Aspinall’s Alarm
Clock
Stragglers
The Union Buries Its Dead
On the Edge of a Plain
In a Dry Season
He’d Come Back
Another of Mitchell’s Plans
for the Future
Steelman
Drifted Back
Remailed
The Drover’s Wife
Mitchell Doesn’t Believe in
the Sack
Shooting the Moon
His Father’s Mate
An Echo from the Old
Bark School
The Shearing of the Cook’s
Dog
Dossing Out and Camping
Across the Straits
Steelman’s Pupil
An Unfinished Love Story
Board arrd Residence
His Colonial Oath
Some Day
A Visit of Condolence
In a Wet Season
Ilats
Mitchell: A Character
Sketch
The Bush Undertaker
Our Pipes
Coming Across-a Study
in the Steerage
The Story of Malachi
Two Dogs and a Fence
Jones’s Alley
Brummy Usen
Bogg of Geebung
She Wouldn’t Speak
The Geological Spieler
Macquarie’s Mate
Baldy Thompson
For Auld Lang Syne
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS and ROMANCES
By J. D. HENNESSEY.
“ WYNNUM ” (just published); cloth boards, Bvo.,
325 pp., 3,6 ; colonial edition, 2/6. “ A story abound-
ing in sensation and surprises.”—S.M. Herald.
“ the DIS-HONOURABLE” : an Australian story
of modern days. 317 pp., third edition, fancy boards,
Bvo., 2/6. “ A novel of intense interest . . sketched
with a graphic force which Charles Reade himself
could not have surpassed.”—London Daily Telegraph,
April 24, ’96.
All Booksellers, or post free from Hennessey, Harper
and Co., 5 .Moore-street, SYDNEY.
OUR PREMISES ARE MODERN and UP TO DATE.”
..S UrS D tOCk ,S *" . New and Nowel ” “Our Quality Hall-Marked.”
*Our Prices are Unapproached in M
Australia.” ® ur Novelties are Selected by Ex-
**Our Window Show is Unique and * l,e , El J* lish j and Con-
Changed Daily.” S ° ever? Man ” k ’ a " d * V ® by
_WE GLADLYJNVITE INSPECTION AND INQUIRIES
&
90 KING ST., SYDNEY
Art Jewellers and
Watch Manufacturers
ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE WIRE
Ana see tliat you get it.
NETTING,
PROOF
M
Our Netting 1 is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND,
mm bros. $ co.
LIMITED.
MSsn,
s
m
fgS
PROO
%
E
The Tiade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and quotations given for
Large Orders.
Offices—
Chambers, B!igb-st., Sydfycy.
*W* orks—
Cl>iswick, Parran>atta River.
THE RED PAGE .
Nicholson’s “Halek.”
. . . philosophical reflections, ivhich the critics de-
clared to be so obvious fromwhat had preceded them that,
although they were given in the most elegant language,
only the dullest of the Pagamas would find it necessary
to read them.— Halek.
Imprimis : you must not call it “Halick
as if it were a little vulgar boy; but “ Hab-lek.
“Halek ” is the life-book of John H. Nicholso
an amiable, aimable old gentleman living
Queensland, where he formerly taught school,
small first edition was printed in London soi
dozen years ago : the second is just issued by 1
J. Ross and Co., of Brisbane. Of late yea
“Halek” has been unattainable by the ordinar;
reader, and while the author’s enthusiastic d
ciples lauded it as the masterpiece of Australi
literature the ordinary reader could only concea
his ignorance and pine. He need not pine an;
longer: he need never have pined at all.
“Halek,” upon its title-page, is called a
mance : it is really a bad allegory—which is
abomination. Bad, for this reason : that an al
gory is merely a figure of speech, an extendec
metaphor, whose whole object is to simplify anc
enforce the presented thought—generally by gi vir
abstract ideas (which are for most minds difficu
to comprehend) a concrete form (which is
Figurative expression really complicates a simp
statement; but you complicate in order to sii
plify, reculez pour mieux sauter, tightly coil
loose mental spring in order that the force o:
recoil may be the greatest possible. A metaph
is a turf thrown (like this) to make the though
geyser spout.
But too many turfs do not stimulate, they bu
the geyser ; and it is one of the most difficu
things in the world to invent a long allegor
which shall not bury the thought. Bunyan ma
aged it : and how? Partly by personifying on!
the moods and qualities familiar to the averag
man, and giving them all the plain, well-unde
stood names which belonged to them—“ Faith
ful,’’ “Worldly-Wise,” “Giant Pope,” “Gian
Despair.” These names are perpetual guide
posts: even if the picture does not look like
horse, you have Bunyan’s plain “This is a horse
scrawled underneath to set your mind at ease
But Mr. Nicholson has invented a half-Hebrew
jargon which one has to puzzle out before begin
ning to comprehend his allegory. He deals wit
Karomas and Pagamas, with Khoshek and Kas
hep and Boded, with Abdan and Zenah and
Benuben and Bak. Your mind has perpetually
to stop and ask itself “What is Anek ? ” o
“Why should they do this in Sahitam? ” lb i
like continual dictionary-reference when reading
foreign language : all the vitality goes out of th
matter.
Mr. Nicholson, in fact, has deliberately thrown
up a barrier between his intelligence "and th
reader’s, and he sits behind it while his disciple
call him profound. He isn’t; he is merely
obscure. “ Halek ”is Hebrew for “ pilgrim,” anc
the book is an inferior “Pilgrim’s Progress.” I
purports to describe the spiritual history of an
individual, apparently the author. The main
phases are allegorised as countries through which
the pilgrim journeys : the people be meets are the
influences which help or retard his spiritual pro
gress. The story is by no means without merit
though its merit is of a rather commonplace
stolid kind ; but it has one crowning fault—it is
insufferably tedious. Chief causes : Complexity
introduced by the jargon before-mentioned ; com
plexity of the author’s ideas, less suited to allegory
than Bunyan's more simple ones ; fact that the
book is conceived and written on the plane of
mediocrity; alienation from the author’s far-back
intellectual standpoint.
* * * *
The “ Halek ” read for the purpose of
this notice was a first-edition copy once owned by
Francis Adams. Adams seems to have rather
approved of “Halek,” and he wrote this sonnel
on the fly-leaf :
This is the book of God’s sweet inner life
Where heart and soul are one with loveliness.
The toiler weary-hearted, in the press
of nature jangled and man’s famished strife,
findeth the hour of quiet and relief:
the gentle worker stricken with distress
heareth again the speech of those that bless.
This is the book of God’s sweet inner life.
Ah weary-hearted toiler, know thy peace,
that peace that tells of quiet soltice yet
and Karom’s hope of heavenly increase I
O worker gentle, all thy doubt forget
in that clear joy whose music ne’er shall cease
with eyes and feet glad Sahitamwards set.
And Adams marked the following passage :
Methought I stood on the sea-beach ; the air was
strangely clear with an amber-colored light; purple
shadows lay on the hills; no sound was heard ; and
everything appeared to be hushed in expectation. And
now the Beautiful Maiden stood before me ; but my soul
was held entranced, so that I could not speak to her.
She looked with a solemn tenderness into my eyes, and
gave me a white flower of great beauty; but while I
looked thereon, as though wondering what it should sig-
nify, the golden light faded, the sea and the hills
vanished, and I awakened.
It would require many words to show whv this dream
so greatly comforted me; and it may be thought that the
sorrows of a love whioh had fed on a glance might easily
be solaced by a dream ; but from this dream I took the
assurance that I should again behold and have fuller
intercourse with the Beautiful Maiden ; and that in the
meantime I should guard and cherish the purity of that
love which she had planted in my breast.
Upon this passage and the chapter in which it
occurs Adams commented : “Not since the Vita
JVuova has love shone with so pure and sweet a
glance as this.” But he didn’t read the book. He
jibbed at page 129, after getting through rather
less than one-third.
* * * *
Macaulay defends Bunyan against the
charge of tedium and denounces Spenser, “Ver;
few and very weary,” he says, “are those whoar
in at the death of the Blatant Beast” in the
“ Faerie Queen.” Craik passes the complimen
to Milton, and enquires for the survivors at the
end of Book XII. of “ Paradise Lost.” Further
he quotes somebody else as dubbing “ Pilgrim’s
Progress” “mean, jejune, and wearisome” —in
defiance of Macaulay. One wishes Craik hac
named that somebody else, for he was evidently
critic to be loved. “The Pilgrim’s Progress” is
on the level of a childish intelligence (though
even as a child the writer found the “Holy
War” much more interesting): its value to
the mature mind is purely as a literary
performance. One can admire the graphic way
in which Bunyan makes his pictures : the vivic
felicity of his style. But modern thought has
made his data, and his argument, and his con-
clusion almost worthless. There is no doubt that,
owing to the religious character of their work,
both Bunyan and Milton (as epic poet) have beer
ridiculously over-valued. Now we are beginning
to get them in their proper literary perspective.
It is curious to see how, lowjo intervallo, it is
the same with Nicholson. His mind is hobbled
in a creed; his book is the utmost hop of his
hobbled mind ; and he has apparently enlisted all
the black-coats of Brisbane to puff his book.
These puffs, by some astounding blunder of taste,
are printed as a preface—“in order,” says the
author, “ that the general public, at any rate of
Queensland to begin with, may see what is
thought of ‘ Halek ’ by some of those whose
opinions are worth having.” In other words,
“All these notable people admire ‘ Halek.’ Don’t
expose your ignorance by disagreeing with them.”
The virtuous “ Halek ” himself would find this
intolerable. And there is also prefixed a puffing
“ review ” which says :
Those who study “ Halek ” will find it a work invalu-
able as a companion, soothing in its effects upon irritated
nerves, strengthening' to the weak, a gentle curb upon
the proud, and at all times a noble incentive to the
leading of a life which shall reflect credit upon the in-
dividual, etc.
It reads like an advertisement of Somebody’s
Safe Cure.
* * * »
The good thing about “Halek” is the
style : the thought is poor. The style is sin-
gularly simple, lucid, sonorous, dignified, re*
strained. It wants enthusiasm, variety, and
dynamic force (by reason of the want of dynamic
thought). It has music, but the music is always
in the same key :it grows monotonous. Biblical
English has evidently been Mr. Nicholson’s model,
touched up with Ossian ; and his own English has a
certain Biblical majesty : there is a large air about
it :it is patriarchal and impressive. It is a fine
vehicle—if he had a better load. But Mr.
Nicholson has little pith or originality : he invents
nothing : he never gets away from commonplace
facts and conventions—all his art is to variegate
them and disguise them with uncouth names.
Even the marvellous maiden Turoni, living in the
exalted state of Karom, is pulled by precisely the
same strings as the ordinary Mary Jane Smith of
social commerce. When Halek comes to her
(they are poor, but love one another devotedly)
and suggests joining pittances and marrying, she
prefers to wait so that “ we could build a larger
house,” and so that Halek might earn enough
money to enable her to give up basket-making.
So Halek gets a railway-pass from the Labor
Bureau and goes mining up-country in order
to make his fortune, with the result that
while he is away Turoni dies and his life
becomes a misery till he gets religion. If he
were an intelligent pilgrim, he would under-
stand that religion is a mighty poor substitute for
the nice warm wife Turoni would have made
him : as he is merely Mr. Nicholson’s lay-figure,
he takes what he gets and professes to be thank-
ful.
All the figures in “Halek” work according to
Mr. Nicholson’s notion of the eternal unfitness of
things. It is a poor notion—the old one that man
is built all wrong, that this earthly existence of
which alone he knows anything is devised princi-
pally to wash the iniquity out of him and
hang him out to dry, that his proper home
is somewhere in the skies, and if he has any savee
he’ll light out for that home as quick as possible,
and that meanwhile the more nice things he denii s
himself the-better. A.kind of human morning-
mist theory, now—thank goodness ! —rapidly dis-
persing. Man’s built just right; all his progress
has come through stretching out to satisfy his
appetites, which want only regulating, not morti-
fying ; and the time to be happy is now, the place
to be happy is here.
Oh threats of Hell and Hopes of Paradise 1
One thing at least is certain— this Life flies ;
One thing is certain and the rest is Lies ;
The Flower that once has blown for ever dies.
• * * »
Thus a g#od half of Mr. Nicholson’s alle-
gory is wasted : it deals with the Things that
Don’t Matter. Same with Banyan ; same with
Milton. So much space spent in mere fetish
words and formulas set forth on the weary ole
basis of creedal assumption. There is no help, no
value in these Don’t-Matter-Things : doubtless
they comfort illiterate sectaries who can swallow
the initial dogma; they delude impulsive people
with weak heads ; but for anyone else they are
mere shells of shibboleths hiding each its vacuum
The thoughts of Milton, for example, don’t stanc
on cardinal human facts, emotional or intellectual,
as Shakespeare’s thoughts do. His men anc
women are not real live men and women like
Homer’s, but didactic divines arguing from im-
probable premises to an irrational conclusion.
Bunyan is better, because his tinker’s-religion
was less a matter of learning, more of feeling (how
he would have loved “ the Army !”) Nicholson
is better still, because lie is later, and religions
move on at the bidding of Policeman Science like
everything else. The half (say) of his work which
is in effect an exhortation to live on a higher
spiritual plane is good enough to read when one
has plenty of leisure to chew it. It has a little
suggestive stimulus—generally, it is true, at
second-hand. Thus the prefatory puffer quotes
“ the following musical description of sound and
color ” as unsurpassed in English prose
Behold a tree standing alone upon a bare mountain.
The sun rises and the tree is transfigured, while his
leaves, waving in the breeze, glitter like jewels.
Sometimes the wind brings him from afar the perfume
of trees of his own kind, which he has never seen. Then
do his bright leaves quiver and droop.
But this is merely Heine’s hackneyed
Ein Fichtenbaum steht einsam
spoilt in paraphrasing. And the puffer quotes
this as “ one of the grandest passages in the whole
work ” :
Then did the music rise and fall, and rise again, pulsing
in solemn rhythm, till I saw the island no more, but alone
on some serene height I took into my heart the fierce
pangs, the pining sorrows, the loneliness, and the grand
endurance of those bright spirits who hope and have not,
who toil without sympathy, who fight without victory,
but who still strive upwards, urged and sustained by the
glorious instinct that at last, somewhere, it shall be well
with them.
Which combines a familiar idea from Lucretius :
Suave, mari magno, &c.
and an idea from Browning
One who never turned his back, but marched breast for-
ward.
Never doubted clouds would break,
Never dreamed, though right was worsted, wrong would
triumph,
Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better,
Sleep to wake.
And so on, and so on.
* * * *
All the same, a copy of “ Hal ek ” should
be sent to Gladstone by every mail until he bites.
The book only wants his fillip to boom for a gene-
ration as “ a Christian classic,” and its sale-possi-
bilities with the people who add up the numbers
in Proph. Daniel are simply immense.
Items.
Ernest Robin’s “ The Clairaudient ”
(Angus and Robertson) is an agreeable booklet,
making “copy of what lies around you.” The
first few chapters are rather interesting ; but the
Mahatma is a bore, and the interest wanes to the
close.
H. H. Champion claims to have published
the first English translation of Ibsen’in a little
u I* 1 called To-Day (now defunct),
which he edited in London in the earlv eighties
JLhe play was “ A Doll’s House,” done by Frances
Lord, and published as “ Nora.”
Randolph Bedford, reasonably hard-up,
some time ago sent a batch of short stories to
U° nd - P ublisher Unwin. Accepted; but would
Mr. Bedford kindly tone down several of the
stones, herewith returned as not in accordance
with Propriety? -Jeshurun, however, had by
this mail fattened into a Westralian mine-pro-
moter and capitalist, and he kicked. “The
Dpinions of Dunwin’s Deader,” it was putconclu-"
sively, “were possibly highly Dsteemed by his
own Dittlo Dircle, but they carried no Height
in the Dosmopolis of Dhite Deather, W.D.A.”
As of author to publisher, the attitude has novelty
—and some charm.
One advantage of publishing in Australia
seems to be that English critics look with more
curiosity to an Antipodean book, and give it
better notices than those doled to the big batch
from the publisher-on-the-spot. Louise Mack’s
English notices to hand are very perfunctory and
paragraphic, though distinctly flattering. And
“The World is Round ” may now be had again
at the local booksellers’: the first supply ran con-
siderably short of demand.
W. A. Squire, author of a little pamphlet
with a big name—“ Ritual, Myth, and Customs
of the Australian Aborigines; a Short Study in
Comparative Ethnology ” (Robert Blair, Mait-
land, N.S.W.) —has swallowed a lot of interesting
miscellaneous facts which he now disgorges any-
how. He seems compiler, not observer; yet his
references to authorities are so erratic that one
never feels safe with him. And he has some
undigested interest.
8.8. : “It seems, then, that you get Heney’s
‘corduroy ’ key-note in the first line of his book
of verses—
Tramp, tramp, along the verandah and turn.
Also that, in order to make one decent poet, eye-
rhymer Heney and ear-rhymer Holdsworth should
be (in the new word) amalgated.”


Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
t hose who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion m the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. * For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medioine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cougli mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success.
“ I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 day's he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Taimvorth, N.S.W.”
‘ VVe, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
59 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. Cd. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
WHAT THE WOULD HAS BEEN WAITING
EOlt
66 Orange Lily.”
fdh
Dr. WALLACE, tlie Eminent Specialist in all Ner-
vous Diseases, Registered in England and the Colonies
as a Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book. Send
Six Penny Stamps at once. Write your case
freely and confidentially. The charge of
ONE POUND ONLY is made by Dr.
Wallace for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about yetting Married ?
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply Depression of spirits, bashfulness, in-
ability to look frankly into the eyps of another, head-
ache, hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, look
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that T>v.
ggjpeer’s invaluable Female Remedies are
always Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
130 X 920. 2.9 York Street* Sydney.
Dr. George On Lee,
CHINESE DOCTOR,
23 Carlton Terrace, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
All persons suffering from any internal diseases, ;
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have them dispersed
by medicine without cutting; also cures bad eyes, fits,
skin diseases, diphtheria and piles. He asks no questions,
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs his ■
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise. Has
practised 26 years in Sydney. Cunsultation fee, 10s. 6d.
Sore Throat 'and Diphtheria Powders sent per Post on
receipt of lls.
MANHOOD RESTORED!
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore von to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, 1 wish I had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
v [Established 187 SQ
Medical,
Dr. SPEER,
29 "XT orlt Street,
WYNYAKD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Suffering from NERVOUSNESS and DEBILITY and
EXHAUSTION should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated
Remedies, which strike at the root of the disease. The
symptoms gradually disappear, nervousness and timidity
vanish, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded , the weak and debilitated consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any’ way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, be will icil
him so ; if not, he will also t: 11 him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
E3P” MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES I
The Special Diseases incidental to young, middle-aged,
and old ladies.
IRREGULARITIES treated with entire confidence
and success.
FEMALE PILLS,
for Irregularities and Obstructions. 10s. and 20s. per
Box (extra strong). Guaranteed.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.O, SYDNEY.
%
VA
Will dure
WHEN
: Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Belts to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, how-
ever poor, need be with-
out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address-
Dr, Lamont Electric Belt Co M
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
No Cure, 3NT o JE* a, y.
ffl KSv
electro
b ?lt
rPIIIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
- 1 - cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
caiiand examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers 63 Elizabeth Street SYDNEY.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORBI
In Four IVet/cs by the use of
t>S RICORD’s
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 265. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope,. .
Agents for Australasia —Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BRQU'S INJECTION.
Hygiene, Infallible and Preservative.
CLItES PKOJirm, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD IN PARIS by
J . "ET 1 B B UFt B
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
5,000
PRINTED PRESCRIPTIONS
to be GIVEN AWAY to those who are
Suffering from NERVOUS WEAKNESS. Any
chemist can prepare the medicine. The PRESCRIPTION
is printed in plain English. Sufferers will know exactly
what they are taking. Address, with stamp for reply, to
“Medicus,” G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MEDICINE SENT FREE "
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge yon not
more than £1 ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 347, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome LnS Friends
and Patients at
137 EHzabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Or. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received iiis education in the English and Scottish
iniversities, and completed his studies in thelead-
ng hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS Sc SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
lias, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to h ippen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, ho.,
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CUKED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DE3BIL.ITY,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every ease undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO ALL
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 5, 12 noon
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 5, 12 noon
Cartjo only for these Ports.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 15, 5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
|
J
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 5, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tuesday, Sept. 8, 5 p. u>
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CD Kit ENT FAKES TO AIL FOKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wit. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—67 York-street, between King & Barrack streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBAItT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
The Adelaide Steamship Co.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West
Australian, South Australian, Victorian
and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney)
about Tuesday, Sept. 8.
S.S. Innamincka (from Mel,
bourne) Saturday, Sept. 5.
ALBANY, 'i
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Frematl e
to
FASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. „
S.S. Innamincka (from Mel
bourne) Saturday, Sept. 5
S.S. Bullarra (from Syd
ney) about Tues., Sept. 8.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Franklin, Saturday,
September 5.
Best <£• Cheapest Itonte to Goldfields ,
G-. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
England via am erica
by the
Australian & American Itonte
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £66 to £67 10s.
Combination Ticket, £3l 19s. 7d. to <£sB 14s. 2d.
For time cards, railway mops, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; Harrold Bros., Adelaide; 8.1.5. N.
Co., Brisbane.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, Via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY,
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, <£2s to =B7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.


Wortl)ii)stoi)P(in)piQg Epgipe Co.
(AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH),
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK-
Sydney, JN\S.W.
VICTORIA: Mephan Ferguson, 475 Collins - street,
Melbourne.
0 KENSLAND : McLennan & Co., Alice and Albert-sts.,
Brisbane.
WLSILRN AUSIRALIA : Mephan Ferguson, Hay-.street,
Perth ; and Imperial Chambers, Coolgardie.
Agencies
j'NEW ZEALAND
TASMANIA:
E. Porter & Co., Queen-st., Auckland.
J. Anderson, Canterbury Foundry,
Christchurch.
T. Bateman & Son, St. Johns-street,
Launceston.
ngrton
inrlrrl n f "PTT TV/T A ntTTATI?DI7‘ j.l .
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOR
IRRIGATION,
SINKING,
MINING,
CREAMERIES,
GARDEN SUPPLIES,
WOOL-SCOURING,
WOOL-DUMPING,
WATER-SUPPLIES,
SEWERAGE,
MARINE,
TANK-FILLING,
BOILER -FEEDING.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
TRY
THE
NEW
2/9
SIZE
>1
*
TRY
THE
NEW
3/9
SIZE,
HALF ™e PRICE
HALF ™e SIZE
FULL VALUE
FULL Strength
Owing to the popularity and success
which has attended the introduction of a
2/9 size bottle of tVarner’s “Safe” Cure
in Great Britain and on the Continent,
the manufacturers, H. H. Warner & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne, have decided to introduce
this 2/9 size bottle in Australasia. If your
medicine vendor does not stock the small
size, kindly ask him to order it for you
from his wholesale dealer; if not obtain-
able locally, a trial bottle will be sent,
carriage paid, on receipt of Post Office
Ordtr, by the manufacturers,
H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
fdh
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d. Df.cameron, illustrated, 3s.
Husii for the Spoil, Nana, Human Brutes, genuine
editions, by Zola, Is Gd ; post, 2s. Send for new list.
Plain Home Talk About tiie Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d ;
send for pamphlet giving full contents gratis.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
6d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, illustrated, 3s.
Mysteries Court of London, by •G. W. Reynolds
2s; post, 2s 6d. Rose Foster, post 2s Od. '
A Fatal Sin, by Balzac, post free, Is 6d.
The Soiled Dove, post free, Is Gd.
Moll Fl'anders, gen. edition, unabridged, post 2/6.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d. ~
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s Gd ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is Gd; post, ls 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready-made for every occasion ;
public speaking made easy, Is Gd, post free.
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics, without a master,
post free Is. The Lover’s Letter Writer, post free Is!
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
Ovid's Art of Love, Is 9J, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS.
BOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Illustrated Marriage Guide.
A FULL EXPLANATION of the ORGANS OF LIFE
and GENERATION IN MANKIND,
Intended for the married, or those intending to marry, and who
desire to inform themselves upon the Intent and Nature of Conjugal
Duties, to which is added a
COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE
Upon all Diseases of the Generative Organs, whether resulting from
Infection or Abuse, illustrated with more than FIFTY ENGRAV-
INGS, by Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D. Price, 36; post, 4/.
Fortune Telling Cards, full directions, Is 2d post,
ill very Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, Illustrated, post free Is 6d
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress
Visaing-, Introductions, Weddings, &c,, Is 6d post free.’
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is Cd.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
lng all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is • post
free, Is 3d. ’ r
Tiie Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price, Is.
Tiie Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse
n health and disease, from infancy to old a°-e with
the treatmen t of all their derangements, for every man’s
puvate use, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D. ; engravings and
colored plates ; new revised Australian edition, price
2s 6d, post free. ’
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
Tiie Wife s Handiiook, Radical Remedy in Social
Science, regulating reproduction, latest information
limiting family. Post, free, Is 2d.
Practical Palmistry, illustrated guide to character
reading. Post free, Is 6d.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
MEMORY CULTURE
I'iof. Lolsettci’s System of Assimilative
Memory.
(Established a Quarter of a Century.)
A SYSTEM by whichthe memory can be trained to re-
-t*- produce Facts, Quotations, Poetry, and all the Daily
Occurrences of Life with certainty. Renders success in
examination sure. Oral lectures now being given in
Sydney. Can he learnt also by correspondence. Founded
on sound scientific principles. Apply Prof. A. LOISETTE
Box 1234 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Medical.
Rheumatism. Lumbago, Old Sores, and
Influenza, etc., Cured.
SUFFERERS from above should USE
MILLER’S Pure Tasmanian Bins Sum
OIL, the results are marvellous. Numerous Testimonials.
Bottles 1/- each at all chemists. Post free 1/4.
Wholesale— T. ltliodes, 108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NOTE—COMMON Eulalyptus Oil is USELESS.
w,
m
wt.
I
I i
A
Weakness and Disease of Man j
Quiokly, thoroughly and permanently cured
by new perfected scientific methods, that ]
cannot fail unless the case is beyond human ]
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a
benefit every day ; soon know yourself a king I
amoiw men in body, mind and heart.
' Every obstacle to a happy j
married nfe removed. Nerve force, will,
energy, brain power, when failing or lost are
restored by our treatment. All weak parts
of the body strengthened and developed.
Victims of abuse and excesses, reclaim
your manhood 1 Sufferers from folly, over-
work, early errors, ill health, regain your 1
vigor! Don’t despair, even if in the" last I
stages. Don’t be disheartened if quacks;
have robbed you. Let us show you medical
science and business honor still exist.
The President of the Institute t is the only
Practitioner that has been presented by the
Boston Herbal Association and the New York
Scientific Investigation Society with their
gold medals and orders of merit, and holds
letters of congratulation for the success of
his scientific discoveries from the leading
Practitioners of the Old and New World. j
Patients living at a distance who cannot
conveniently visit us, when writing, should
state their case as minutely as possible,
and those requiring immediate treatment
remit 20s. for remedies, which will be for-
warded securely packed to any address or
station. Our preparations cannot be sup-
plied in pill form, as each case receives
separate consideration, the Remedies being
specially' prepared under the direct super-
vision of the President.
Just Published—Pocket Medical Guide,
containing remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
&c., sent fiee on receipt of address.
Address the President, or
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute,
11A FLINDERS-ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Personal Consultations Daily'.
Private Waiting Rooms.
Letters of thanks received daily from re-
stored and grateful patients, who had pre-
viously given up all hope.
consult Dr. FREEMAN.
This well-known and RELIABLE SPECIALIST treats
Chronic and Nervous Diseases of Men. He
cures Secret Blood and Skin Diseases, Sores and Swell-
ings, DEBILITY, and other Weaknesses. His NEW
PAMPHLET sent FREE TO ALL who write regarding
their trouble. PATIENTS CURED at HOME, and
medicines sent free from observation.
Dr. FREEMAN, P.O. Box 1359,
ELIZABETH STREET (corner Bathurst-st,), SYDNEY.
French Safety Fills.
]\f AKE life a pleasure and existence a joy. They are a
certain and speedy cure for all Irregularities and
Obstructions of the system. For females of all ages these
pills are invaluable, as a few doses of them carry off all
humors, and bring about all that is required. No female
should be without them. Guaranteed safe and sure. Box
posted, 7/6; extra strong, 20/-. Write Professor
HAUTMONT, R.M.D., Victoria-st., North Melbourne.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write-
-29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
nLOQD POISON
A SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
lor Tertiary BLOOD POISON per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You can
be treated at home for same price under
'same guaranty. If you prefer to come
here we will contract to pay railroad and
steamship fare and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge, if we fail to cure. If you have taken
mercury, lodide potash, and still have aches
and pains. Mucous Patches in the mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots, Ul-
cers on any part of the body, Hair or Eyebrows
falling out, it is this Secondary BLOOD POI-
SON we guarantee to cure. We solicit the most
obstinate cases and challenge the world for
a case we cannot cure. Physicians cannot
cure you. $500,000 capital behind our uncondi-
tional guaranty. Absolute proofs sent sealed on
application. Address COOK REMEDY CO.
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Tlie Popular Beverage in Victoria.
-A-XjES_
SWAGMAN: “Could yer give us a pipe of tobacco, mate?”
HORSEMAN: “Yes. I can give you some that was made in America. It’s CAMERON’S TWO SEAS—the best
smoke in the world!”
SWAGMAN: “My oath, it’s good. I’ve bin tryin’ to get it for years.”


T. o o Ki
BEFORE YOU
T. E A. P!
When you go out shopping, consider, think
of the money in your pocket, and take account
of the many stores whose various attractions
are laid before you. There is A, with temp-
tation in the form of a pretty show ; there is
B, whose wiles are innumerable ; and C,
who says that he is the man for your money ;
and so on, throughout a list as long as
George-street, each smiling dealer has some-
thing to say and to offer.
Please Pause!
Hearken not to the song of the syren, sing
she ever so sweetly ; heed not the voice of
the charmer, charm he never so wisely.
Your pocket’s concerned ; and there are
pirates about. As the poet pertinently puts
it: ‘‘There be land-sharks and water-
sharks, ” and it is for you to see that your
dealings are with none of these voracious
monsters. Take warning in time, for it will
be no use when the new taxes come round—
and the tax-gatherer-won’t take no for an
answer—for you to plead : There would have
been enough and to spare had I been wise
enough to
Buy Everything
AT
ANTHONY HORDERN’S,
ONLY UNIVERSAL PKOVinEKS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
COLDS, COUGHS,
INFLUENZA,
SORE THROAT
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
ERR Y
yERs
Will relieve the most dis-
tressing cough, soothe
the inflamed membrane,
loosen the phlegm, and
induce refreshing sleep.
For the cure of Croup,
Whooping Cough, and all
the pulmonary troubles
to which the young are
so liable, there is no other
remedy so effective as
jpide by pr.J.C.Ayer & Co.,Lowell, Mass., TJ.S.A.
In Half-size Bottles,
And also in large 4/6 size.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
4®" The name, Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
is prominent on the wrapper and is blown
in the glass of each bottle. Take no cheap
imitation.
patch*
' BRANDT'S
“»NTa-^&NPIE.”
A Kerosene Candle with Now Light
Spreader. For Candlesticks and Carnage
Lamps. Entirely supersedes the ordinary
candle. 110 HOURS’ LIGHT at a COST
of ONE PENNY. Prices -10 and 20.
Postage 4d per pair extra. Last for years.
Kerosene Gas Stove anil
Cooking Apparatus.
No wick, no Smell, Atmospheric Burner :
one flame does 0 operations same time.
From 31 G. Send for Catalogue.
,65 ran cent. CHEAPER THAN GAS.
Trilby Glow Night Lamp -200
•Hours’ Light costs J4d. It converts kero-
sene into gas. 1,6 each; 2 - ea. post free.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lampmakers and Importers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Wt.CK hegim-Etc*
SCALE ONE FIFTH
IB SK COMPACT Of AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
Managing Director : JOHN HOWELL (late General
Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Limited).
ADDRESS :
Head Office—s 6 Margaret-st., Sydney.
rrHE Works are now in course of construction at Lake
1 Ulawarra, N.S.W., and a portion will be in operation
bv AUGUST 189 G, when the Company will be prepared to
purchase and treat, m large or small quantities, all classes
of Gold, Silver, Lead, Copper, and other Ores.
An ASSAY OFFICE and LABORATORY have been
opened at the Head Office in Sydney, and most com-
modious Assay Offices and Laboratories are now 111
course of erection at the works, which will be equipped
in the most Modern Style, at both of which establish-
ments samples of ores of all classes will be tested for
the guidance of those not familiar with the value of
same. . , ,
Treatment of base refractory ores of low grade a
speciality.
ONTSERRAT
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserrat
used in i ts prod notion
Lime Fruit Juiee
SAUCE.
Sold
Everywhere.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHILDREN’S sweet)
\k
L'ancet.
A
ASm
St. Jonn’s Works, W.C.. LONDON,
To OCir Jack Tars.
PLEASE NOTE
I AM SELLING
Regulation Low Shoes, \
No Toe-eap. J
Bs. 9d. and 10s. 6d.
ss. 6d. 7s. Gd.
Regulation Lace Loots,
No Toe-cap.
10s. 6(J,
Also a large selection of Boots and Shoes of every shade and variety of style, made t«
„ wear, and will not stretch your pocket too much.
JOHN HUNTER,
SHOPS AND BRANCHES
EVERYWHERE.
Corner GEORGE anp MARKET STREETS,
and 84 KING STREET, SYDNEY;
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
El S 3 *W“ J!L xg 13..®}
'nr =
$
WORLD-RENOWNED
firoducer #• Be^torer
Hair producer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARIKNE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
M
m
j!, ; .
ym
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
Tun World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness,
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
‘■Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
U 3@ r ” It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
/
f\
md
<
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4 6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARDENS” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
PA.R.KER.’ S
Australian Hair Preserve]
Those who use it will never
. become Bald.
* * *
It entirely removes Dandruff.
* * *
It promotes the Growth of the
Hair.
* * *
Ladies .will find it a perfect
boon; it is not a dye—it
is not sticky' or greasy.
One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
u
.This pure and excellent
remedy is now ' under Vice-
Regal patronage, and is used
by leading ladies of the colony
with most gratifying results.
If not procurable from y<
receipt of 3/6 in Money Oi
application to
r.ir Chemist or Storekeeper, SAMPLE BOTTLE will be sent to you on
der or Stamps. Testimonials from well-known citizens forwarded on
J. CURTIN, Sole Agent, 84 Market Street, SYDNEY.
dfh
H. HILLIER,
Manufacturer & Importer
135 and 137
•Sussex Street, Sydney.
fd
iMtin I’If'VOLES from the manufactory in Rirminyham to my stores in Sussex-street at thefollowing prices
ROADSTER DUNLOP, Pneumatic Tires, Tangent Spokes (also Ladies) hl3 10s ; Cushion IQg
AU SS »««« F » want in this line-you can ,ct
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit w ith Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house- (
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daiiy menu. (
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of 1
Bird's Custard and Bird’s Concentrated (
K;o Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Marige Powders, from all the leading ■
Wholesale Houses.
A Friendly Game of Football.
FOUGHT AT BUNGAREE.
We were challenged by the Dingoes —they’re the
pride of Squatter’s Gap—
To a friendly game of football on the flat by
Devil’s Trap,
And vve went along on horses, sworn to triumph
in the game
For the honour of Gyp’s Diggings and the glory
of the same.
And we took the challenge with us. It was
beautiful to see,
With its lovely curly letters and its pretty
filagree ;
It was neat and gently worded, and it made a man
feel good,
For it breathed the purest sentiment of peace and
brotherhood.
We had “Chang” and Timmy Hogan, and the
man who beat the Plug ;
Also Heggarty, and Hoolahan, and Peter Scott,
the pug.;
And we wore our knuckle-dusters, and we took a
keg on tap
For our friendly game of football with the fellows
at the Gap.
All the Dingoes came to meet us, and we spoke
like brothers dear.
They’d a tip-dray full of tucker, and a waggon-
load of beer;
Likewise lint and sticking-plaster —and we all
expected fun
Ere our friendly game of football with the Dingo
boys was done.
The umpire was an ugly man, a stranger to the
push,
With large, distorted features and a flavor of the
bush.
He said he didn’t know the game, but spat and
swore an oath
To see ail square between the teams of knock the
hide off both.
Then we bounced the ball and started, and for
twenty minutes quite
We played the game with courtesy and‘proper
sense of right,
When Fitzpatrick fired Macdougal on his brisket
in the mud,
And that hero rose up chewing dirt and famishing
for blood.
But Simonsen, the umpire, sorted out the happy
pair,
And he found a pitch to suit them, and he left
them fighting there ;
And then Halligan and Cop-out met with cries of
wrath and pain,
And wild horses couldn’t part those ancient
enemies again.
The umpire dragged them panting to a quiet little
patch,
And then gave his best attention to the bruising
and the match, .
And I never wish to come across a fairer-minded
chap
For a friendly game of football than that umpire
at The Gap.
In due time young Snlith and Henty, and Blue
Ben, and Dick, and Blake,
Chose partners from the Dingoes, and went slug-
ging for the cake.
Then Tim Hogan hit the umpire, and was promptly
put to bed _ /
’Neath the ammunition waggon, with a bandage
on his head.
Feeling lonely-like, Magee took on a local star
named Bent,
And four others started fighting to avoid an argu-
ment.
So Simonsen postponed the play for fear some
slight mishap
Might disturb the pleasant feeling then prevailing
at The Gap.
And some fifteen minutes later twenty couples
held the floor,
And the air was thick with whiskey, and the
ground was tinged with gore,
And the umpire kept good order in the interests
of peace,
Whilst the people, to oblige him, sat severely on
the p’lice.
We fought the friendly game out, but no man
could say who won.
We were candidates for shutters when the glorious
day was done ;
Both the constables had vanished—ope was carried
home to bunk —
And the ump'ro was exhausted, and the populace
was drank.
But we’ve written out a document, with Father
Finney’s aid,
Breathing friendship and affection, and the cpal-
lenge is conveyed
To the Dingo Club at Squatter’s, and another
friendly game ' . .
Will come off here at the Diggings—we re in train-
ing for the sanie.
We have pressed The Gap to bring their central
um]lire if they can,
As we all admire him warmly for a fair and decent
And we reckon on a lively game beside the I pcenix
For “The Giant Killer’s ” guaranteed to plug him
if he comes.
EDWARD DYSON.


Australian Mutual q'™
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established -K'A V x X i •
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
BFNTAm™ ; JOSKPI * ABB ?J f T) Esq ' ; THOS - LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.
DCiJN JAJVIIN SHORT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Amnnir - - Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Exceed Thirteen Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1895 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over T 432 523
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £860,000.
I3:eati Office : 8"7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
GOAL OIL JOHNNY’S
A Modern Soap.
The only Soap that is
strictly pure and
free from animal fats.
SOAP.
AGENTS:
MXean Bros. &
Ltd., 512 George-street, Sydney.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
£jGt7GH MEDICINE
has, from time immemorial, been
put up by almost every chemist
and druggist in this and every
other country. The reason is
obvious. A cold or cough is easy
to cure if taken in time.
We offer to the public, through
the retail chemists of New South
Wale's j
Watt’S Caragl)€€o,
as, in ottr opinion; the safest,
speediest, and most pleasant cure
for coughs and colds that can be
bought irl ably part of the world;
ELLIOTT BROTHERS; Ltd.
(Wholesale Only.)
■rtSj uOU
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect in
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
which so favorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
f rom wearing C. B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents—3. E. NEWPORT «ft SONS,
Chisholm Lane, Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
AUSTRAL OVERCOATS.
EQUAL TO ORDER—in FASHION, FIT, and FINISH.
Look Well! Fit Well! Wear Well!
At PRICES TO DEFY COM PETITION. Before ordering, call and inspect.
GENT’S WINTER HOSIERY.
UNDEIi-SHIRTS, PANTS, HALF-HOSE, etc., etc.; in
NATURAL WOOL, CASHMERE, LAMB’S WOOL, MERINO, ETC.
Our Own Importing' Direct from the best English manufacturers.
ZST UMBRELLAS-a Speciality.
G O WING BEOS.,
Clothiers & Oiltfitters,
486, 488, 490 GeoKge Street, SYDNEY (opp. Mailt Entrance New Markets).
RRYANT & MAY’S WAX V€STAS
and
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES,
20 Prize IMEedalS for Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box,
A TJSTRALIAJY BRANDY
(Joshua Bros* 6 6 Boomerang 91 Brand)*
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING*.
IST Pronounced by the most competent experts to 1 be equal in quality to the finest Cognac, Isa
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFlTUlirfl & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
n W r HITELAW& COMPY.,
Boot and Shoe Manufacturers,
X 55 Swaixston-street, Melbourne.
Our NEW SEASON’S TAN BOOTS in Russian or
Ooze Calf will well bear comparison with the best bespoke
bootmakers’ work in MAKE, MATERIAL and FINISH.
. . They are a standard for the trade to work up to. . .
Post free Victoria, 215. ; other colonies, 225. j
Call and Inspect—or send for Catalogue with instructions
for Self-Measurement.
Hslls
The London
AND
Have just received a Gig-antic Shipment of ASSORTED
TWEEDS, WORSTEDS, and SERGES. these
Goods have been PURCHASED FOR CASH in the CHEAPEST
MARKET, Customers can rely on getting clothes made at
least 20 per cent, cheaper than at any other Tailoring Estab-
lishment in the City.
Worsted Sac Suits (bound) are
Our 50s. Serge Sac Suits are
Scotch or West of England
speciality in Evening Dress Suits
All Garments turned out in First-class
Our 50s. Corkscrew
not to be equalled in Sydney,
splendid value. Our 455.
Tweed Suits are Al. Our
at £5 cannot be excelled.
Style. PEEK HOT FIT GUARANTEED
OR MONEY RETURNED.
Patterns, Measurement Forms and Tape free by post.
31 Erskine Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Tailoring Co.,
s. M. BAtTMASHE, Manager.
Business Announcements.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
8 YDNE Y, JV. S. WALE S.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment,)
experts
Use tile NEW
Remington Typewriter
without looking at the keys.
THEY ARE SO COMPACT,
THE TOUCH
OF THE KEYS IS SO LIGHT.
NO PUNCHING
AS IN OTHER MA C 111 NE Si
TWELVE to TWENTY Copies at One Writing.
SPEED
Capabilities Twice as Great;
STOTT HOARE,
Sole Importers,
49 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY;
426 COLLINS STREET; MELBOURNE:
57
TEAKS DYEING
FOR THE DADIE&
■W\ C- !ETjXSI2-IDC3-IE & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies ntomvthi
attended to. u
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN AUSTIiALIAITcOMPANY
City Mutual Fire
INSIlllANCI! COMPANY, Limited.
Head Offices: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Chairman —The Hon. John See, M.P
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £163,178
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
All Funds Invested in Australia.
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 17 Years - £125,000
m ' INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Transacts FIRE Insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre i
miumsfor the year 1895, viz., .£B47B—divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making £82,05& divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KINO, Secretary.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENT?,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales :
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. 0. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,920,003.
Progress of the Society, 1873—1895.
Policies Issued, 71,373, assuring ...£22,310,658
Amounts Paid to Policy-Holders ... 1,539,400
Cash Surplus'at 31st December, 1894-
Equivalent in Reversion to over £450,000.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager':
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiaranfee
Co. JAd. of London.
fidelity Guarantees. Burglary.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc,
Australian Branch; W. BPMillan, M.l\, Director.
Adelaide: E. H. PeaCiiev. L. A. Jessop, Director.
Melbourne: D. Glynh. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
VOLCANIC
SodE*, water
Is ABSOLUTELY PURE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
Tlie Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Cfiq
bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place,' Sydney.
Important Announcement by Dixson <& Sons *
Tobacco Manufacturers *
The BONANZA CIGAR.
& by tbe of newly-invented machinery of surprising capa-
city, have placed upon this market at a Price Hitherto Uil-
Here a Cigar of exceptional quality. " " "
Cigar* Tobacco in the World
. avana, and ai i’angements have been made for supplies from
there of the choicest Tobacco (Yuelta Abajo).
' AN/A Cigais aie made of this Tobacco, with a necessary portion of
equa y-c mice Seed Leaf, and together they form a Cigar second only to the
recognised brands of high-class Havanas.
4 Full-sized Cigars for 6d.! I —will at first no doubt
be prejudicial; but machinery, overcoming the great cost of production, just
1T h qUa% aUd Wei * ht to be -de at a profit. HIXSON
an intend the Bonanza Cigar to illustrate and prove what can be done.
The “ BONANZA
99
comes as a pleasant surprise to many who. though capable of appreciating a
good Cigar, have lately been prevented through retrenched circumstances from
indulging in the hitherto expensive luxury.
Note-Sample Boxes of 100 Bonanzas will be sent (carriage paid) to any
address on receipt of 10s. while this advertisement appears.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Fost Office, Sydrecy, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Voi,. 17.—N0. 861.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1896.
Price, 6i\
jpfsaveloy-maker was charged at the Central s
| Police Court yesterday with, having on his fi
| premises a quantity of beef unfit for, P
| though intended for, human consumption. f§
|The evidence on which the magistrate im- §t
1 posed a heavy fine went to prove that the H
I meat found on these premises and, according
|to the defendant, intended for conversion §
| into saveloys, was “green, dirty, and in ail
|state of decay.” The Health Officer imme- §|
|diately icondemned a sample of if submitted g
| to him, ami, the meat was takeneto Moores
|Park and burled there by so M
|that dogs might not sustain 'injury /hrotigh jB
1< atiug it. ■- V/ ■ ..feUl
WARWICK, August 21.
As showing to what extent the tlr',\
disease is causing a scare In New South
Wales, all the horses in connection with
Fitzgerald Bros.’ circus had to be care-
fully examined by the local inspector on
Thursday. This, however, did not
suffice, and the horses had to be smeared
with oil before beeSg allowed to cross
the border. ~v
yhe Wild
.animals of the menagerie were noL
fiamssi
mm mm a
Of Ay''- Xp If l
& m
4S s»jf o»'-\]
: X cable ffliessage has been received by the
Cqvernmeht from Mr. Justice Windeyer ictimat-
[ irig that lie -has resigned bis position on t-Ue _
Bench, and that the written resignation is now j
on its way tot the colony, and will be sent to the
I Governor. , Mr. Justice Windeyer recently asked
[ for ail extension of leave, but the Covenant,- m .
■ view of the present position of ,>
! neetion with }he Supreme Court Bench
' prepared to grant any extension, the (P Sy
; leave upon which his Honor went./.-
■ having recently expired.'
affe/rtfif „ s//ef °f
/ /sfere’***'.* *W fSS 7 *
7 sKs- ***** °* r 7 / ’
CARTOONLEIS
THE BURIAL OF SIRLOIN MORE (orless)
''Sheyjhmi it ctetplj m fjuore lirke’s
A W'fyi of for nw -
\9U meat for fo Sausage'luarv Said iVaj all rifo "
m Was [or wterp-wt or burning
jgrf J ? slioT it staff twlwamcm suvil , -
Jo His tJoice Was a frempr of sorrow,
rof He WHaH f}riika ftould attic kit# iiwteui
y V.' \k Sailor y Saayiyc- 'TpmorrW !
(sbo fcmgbf a-jrtvH) scooped, outhfnamiJ bed
Tor tbc mtvX TOWas ralfiw Too mt\\ovd
Ur motwh sfijl Joeing jW
J, Oh such bvliou-S and ijtUM
(okty may talho[ Ife Horfs moat tllotf <jorve.
'sacT! fte ffoUapbnud- (urn,.
liM his trouble! Wpfo! fyftej’|[ (Hlmrfoeptm
id tk tro# ttiad paid him
Hop.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street A Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.—lF. ill. Smith A Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Wcstralia and Maoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outride N.S. Wales is now £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage. England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1896.
A Way Out.
The present Maorilancl Government, which
tackles more big questions with a light heart
than any other Ministry in Australasia, pro-
poses to try its hand at the construction of a
workable Parliamentary system. Hitherto
Maoriland, like the other six provinces, has
possessed a system which was wholly un-
workable in theory, and which only struggled
through after a cumbrous sort of fashion in
practice because one or other of the parties
to the frequent deadlock was generally talked
into, or scared into, surrender or compromise,
or gave in from corrupt or other motives, or
died, or grew tired, or the question at issue
dropped and people forgot that there was a
deadlock. One of the curiosities of the
beautiful political policy which Australia in-
herited from Britain is that it makes all
manner of provision for creating deadlocks
between the two Houses of Parliament, and
no provision at all for remedying them. Its
great aim and object is to bring an irresist-
able force into violent concussion with an
immovable post on a plain, and leave them
there. In most cases of violent disagree-
ment some way out is ultimately discovered,
after days or months or years of talk and
worry and agitation, but there is no recog-
nised way out. The Constitution is a ten-
storey house built without stairs, the reason
assigned for its construction being that, as a
person can’t well spend his whole existence
on a top storey, he will probably find a way
to get down. The idea of supplying a way
down is contrary to the Constitution.
* * * *
Whether the Upper House is nominee or
elective, the situation is much the same. The
Assembly represents the popular will so far
as it can be ascertained at the polls. It is
understood in a more or less hazy fashion
that the popular will must prevail. When
the Upper House merely endorses the opinion
of the popular Chamber, then it is a useless
excrescence —a voice saying ditto in the
wilderness —a mere echo which the country
could do as well without. When it reverses
the vote of the popular Chamber it contra-
venes the first great maxim of the country’s
political system. The people don’t govern,
and the democracy is a failure. The country
elects the Assembly ; the Assembly creates
the Ministry ; the Ministry, more or less
directly, creates the Council in those pro-
vinces where that institution is run on the
nominee system ; and the Council has power
to reverse the decisions of the nation, the
Assembly, and the Government all combined.
The people keep the nominee Council pre-
sumably that it may do something, and when-
ever it is found doing anything except saying
ditto to the popular House—which is not
doing anything—there is a great and labori-
ous effort to suppress it. The Assembly re-
presents the public opinion of to-day. The
nominee Council represents the successive
layers of public opinion for the past twenty
or thirty years. Ministries and Parliaments
have come and gone during that period, but
the permanent legislators which they have
created remain, and the nominee Council is
merely the debris left on the shore of politics
by successive high tides of public opinion.
When this institution, which was presumably
created for the purpose of doing something,
is found doing anything, the country proceeds
to suppress it in a miserably circuitous
fashion by calling it bad names in the papers,
holding public meetings, delivering speeches,
dissolving the Lower House—which has
nothing to do with the matter —appealing to
the Governor to create a new batch of
nominees to vote down the ones already in
hand, which new batch will create similar
trouble later on, appealing to the British
Government to make the Governor appoint
the said nominees, and other riot and excite-
ment. There is no authorised solution of
the difficulty, but after everybody has talked
everybody else nearly to death something
generally happens to smooth matters over.
If it doesn’t the subject drops from sheer
exhaustion.
* * * *
Where the Council is an elective institu-
tion with a property franchise, as in Victoria
and Tasmania, the situation is even more
difficult. There the people in general are
represented in the Assembly. Most of them
are also represented in the Council, but
owing to the fact that only landlords are
eligible to sit in the House of Fossildom, and
that in the absence of any salary only
wealthy landlords can afford to go there,
they are driven in most cases to elect
M.’s.L.C. whose sentiments are hopelessly
antagonistic to popular opinion. When these
persons insist, allegedly on behalf of then-
constituents, upon undoing what the same
constituents have instructed their other re-
presentatives in the Assembly to do, the re-
sult is the most complete deadlock on rcord.
The M.’sL.C. can’t ioe swamped by new
nominees. There is nothing to be gained by
bringing pressure on the Ministry, or the
Governor, or the Governor’s bosses in Eng-
land, for there is no way in which any of
them can interfere There is nothing to be
gained by dissolving the Assembly and tak-
ing the sense of the people, for the Council
only accepts instructions from its own con-
stituents at its own elections. The Council
can’t be dissolved, no matter how outrageous
its conduct may be. If there is in the
Assembly a 60 to 1 majority in favor of some
urgent reform, and in the Council a majority
of one against it at a sitting where only a
dozen are present, it is lost, even though the
two Houses put together show a vote of three
to one in its favor. The whole system is
contrived to create two Houses which are
calculated to take diametrically opposite
views of almost everything, and then to leave
them there.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government proposes to
meet the difficulty by a simple expedient
which has already been tried in various
countries and found reasonably efficient.
When any measure has twice within fourteen
months been passed by one House and re-
jected by the other, the House which passed
it may, within three weeks thereafter, call
on the Governor to summon a convention of
the two Houses sitting as one, and leave the
question of passing, amending, or rejecting
the measure to the majority. Some of the
details of this scheme are clumsy and ridi-
culous, but the general idea is ex-
cellent. It creates a court of appeal
from the eternal deadlock. So long as
the popular chamber is the more numerous
of the two it provides a means whereby the
people, if they are in dead earnest, can over-
rule the Propertied House, and also, if they
are sufficiently in earnest, a means whereby
they can amend or abolish it. It is not an
absolutely logical plan ; it practically pro-
vides that a two-thirds majority (or there-
abouts) of the Assembly may overrule the
Council’s veto, and this being so the obvious
course would be to enact that it should do so
without any joint sitting—only the necessity
for not treading too heavily all at once on
the moral bunion of the Council probably
makes it desirable to adopt the more circuit-
ous and more respectful course. Also, seeing
that the Maoriland Council, if it refuses to
vote as it is told, may be bullied into
obedience by swamping it with new members,
and that it is now further proposed to place
it under the domination of a big majority in
the Assembly, it is openly acknowledged
that the Council is not expected to have any
will of its own, and that the country can’t
afford to let it have one. In other words,
long experience has proved that the Council
is no good as a house of revision, for it cheer-
fully passes all the swindles and land-jobs
and disastrous loans, and all the foolish
proposals which don’t affect its private in-
terests, and only rejects those which affect
its private interests, and the only power
with which it can safely be trusted is
the power to say ditto to the popular
Chamber. Therefore, the Government's pre-
sent project aims at making it say ditto mote
regularly than heretofore. This being the
acknowledged state of affairs,, the reason for
keeping an expensive institution merely
that it may be laboriously clubbed into a
constant state of unanimity is not apparent;
but the bi-cameral system is a British fetish
of great magnitude, and it is probably good
policy to deal with it by instalments. The
Council may be deprived of all real authority,
but its name and some limited powers of
obstruction will still remain, and the theory
that a Legislature must consist of two
branches, each violently contradicting the
other, will be satisfied.
* * * *
The weak point about the scheme is its
too great elaborateness. The provision that
a Bill must be twice passed and twice re-
jected within fourteen months to bring it
within the operations of the Act, will only
incite the Council to fill in time on the
second appearance of the measure with use-
less discussion, postponements, amendments,
inquiries before select committees, and. so
on, till it gets the date of actual rejection
past the 14 months’ limit. The proposal
that the Bill must be twice rejected by the
same House will incite the Council, the
second time a liberal measure comes before
it, to pass it with impossible amendments,
and thus compel the Assembly to do the
rejection. The fact that the demand for a
combined sitting of the two Chambers must
come within three weeks of the second rejec-
tion looks as if it could be easily dodged,
by simply allowing the measure to drift into
oblivion a second time a few minutes before
the prorogation, in which case there would
not be within the next three weeks any House
to make the required demand. Or the
Opposition in the Assembly might fill in the
specified three weeks with a want of confi-
dence motion, and thus prevent any demand
being made. There is no visible reason why
there should be two rejections before the
matter can come before the combined
Houses, or why they should necessarily
happen within 14 months, or why the other
House should have to demand its court of
final appeal within three weeks instead of
being allowed to make it any time during
that or next session. Still, with all these
complications, the measure is the first
serious attempt to provide a way out of the
political deadlock, and is commendable on
that account. Hitherto the only method of
treating the deadlock has consisted in the
two parties howling for each other’s blood
at a distance, and any solution—whether
by tossing up, or by a hundred yards’ race
between the Speaker of one House and the
President of the other, or by a combined
vote, or by hard drinking (the House which
provides the last man capable of sitting up
to carry its point), or by the referendum, or
by any other means which will produce a
decision—has at least some semblance of de-
finiteness to recommend it. Even a process
which is as likely to decide the wrong way as
the right one is better than one which gives
no decision at all either way.
Britain and Free-Trade.
On 25th June last it was exactly 50 years
since the British House of Lords passed the
Bill to repeal the Corn Laws. Fifty years of
the “blessings of Freetrade” ! Fifty years of
progress towards the era of national brother-
hood and universal prosperity ! Fifty years
during which British population, wealth, and
trade have enormously increased ! Obviously,
if there is any virtue in theories, any value in
long rows of figures, Britain is the most enviable
country on earth. Yet Britain is uneasy.
* * * *
The repeal of the Corn Laws sacrificed the
British agriculturist to the British manu-
facturer. During the last half-century, chiefly
by reason of Freetrade, the cultivated area of
the United Kingdom has been gradually chang-
ing its character Tilled land has given place
to pasture land, and pasture land to woods and
plantations. The-change has been most marked
in recent years Between 1880 and 1894, the
area under corn crops decreased by 1,500,906
acres ; under green crops by 283,538 acres ; of
other crops by 106,939 acres; of uncropped
arable land by 291,570 acres During the same
period the area under grass increased by
2,510,406 acres; the area of woods and
plantations by 206,003 acres. These figures
are compiled from the Financial Reform
Almanac for 1895—a Freetrade authority.
Even Freetraders do not deny the inferences to
be drawn from them. That British land is.
going out of cultivation is a fact so evident to
observers that the corroboration of statistics is
hardly needed.
* * * *
Yet Britain’s continental rivals have main-
tained or increased their arable areas. This
recent comparison is significant :
France. Germany. Belgium. U.K.
Percentage of arable
land to total area.. 49-20 48'46 53-48 29T7
Possibly, with juster land-laws, the British
agriculturist might be able to continue the
struggle. Certainly, were the landlord abol-
ished, a comparatively moderate measure of
protection would be needed. When British
agriculture paid, the landlord skimmed the
cream of the profits; now that there is no cream
he takes the milk, and the farmer and laborer
get only a hand-to-mouth living, if that. No
practicable protection will help them till the
burden of rent is shifted or reduced. Even
before the Corn Laws were .repealed, the posi-
tion of the actual agricultural worker was only
a little better than at present. Then—he
existed; now—he almost exists. But the
difference, though slight, is material.
* * * *
The position now is that, with British agri-
culture dead or dying, British manufactures
also are beginning to sicken. Though popula-
tion has increased, imports and exports have
both fallen heavily since 1890, and the enor-
mous disparity between them is widening.
Between 1890 and 1894 exports of British
produce declined from £1 os. 7d. to £5 11s. 3d.
per head of population. Allowance for
financial crises and the fall in values will
not account for this enormous decrease. And
again figures are endorsed by facts. The great
iron trades and cotton trades complain of acute
depression. Other branches of industry are
similarly despondent. Germany and Belgium
are beating Britain out of African and
Australian markets. India and Japan are
driving her from the markets of “ the
East.” Since 1880 British exports of cotton
manufactures, of glassware, of arms and ammu-
nition, of linen manufactures, of iron and steel,
of salt, of silk manufactures, have decreased
both in quantity and value. English politicians
are beginning to realise that they have in vain
sold the yeoman’s birthright for a mess of com-
mercial pottage, if the pottage is to be little by
little taken away by foreign competitors.
* * * *
Meanwhile, the hated label “made in Ger-
many ” is becoming more and more common in
Britain; the stream of German immigrants,
ousting British clerks and shopmen from their
places, flows incessantly; and Freetrade Britain
sees her markets swamped with foreign pro-'
ducts, while foreign protective duties prevent
her from retaliating. Consider this table :
Percentage of Imports Received from the U.K. by
1884-5 1890-1-2 Decrease
Germany 15 14 1
Holland 26 21 5
Belgium 13 12 1
France 14 13 1
Europe (except Turkey)
and Austria ... j 18 17
Egypt 39 37 2
China 25 21 4
Japan 45 34 11
United States 24 22 2
India 75 70 5
Canada 49 38 11
Australasia 50 43 7
All British possessions 54 51 3
This table is compiled from the Financial
Reform Almanac for ’95 the Freetrade
authority previously quoted. It deals with
percentages, not with quantities or values,
therefore inferences from it are unaffected by
trade crises or price fluctuations. The com-
parison between special years (the only ones
for which the F.R.A supplies figures) is fair,
because, though the gross amount of one
country’s trade with all other countries may
fluctuate from year to year, for temporary
reasons, the percentage of its gross trade which
it does with any individual country is unlikely
to be temporarily affected to a serious extent
by any cause but war—a cause which cannot
here be invoked. So that, not temporary,
but persisting causes are in operation to com-
paratively reduce the volume of imports taken
from Britain by the countries mentioned. And
the table shows that the most important foreign
nations and the three most important of British
possessions have materially decreased their
imports from the United Kingdom during the
last six or eight years. (The decrease of 1 per
cent, in German imports, for example, means
a loss of about £2,000,000 in annual trade-
value to the U.K.) Exceptions are Norway,
Sweden, Greece, Italy, Spain, Roumania, the
Argentine, Chili, Mexico, the Cape, Ceylon,
Mauritius, West Indies, British Guiana, and
Natal; but the average is seriously against
Britain.
* * * *
Here are the complementary figures
Percentage of Exports sent to tiie U.K. by
1884-5. 1890-1-2. Increase
Germany.. .. 16 21 5
Holland .. .. 24 27 3
Belgium .. .. 19 19 ®
France .... 26 28 2
Europe (Turkey and
Austria excepted) 22 25 3
Canada .. .. 46 48 2
The Cape.... 90 95 6
Decrease
India .. .. 40 33 7
Australasia 50 45 5
All British posses-
sions .. .. 44 40 4
Put in words, this means that Britain’s chief
continental rivals are exporting to her propor-
tionally more goods while importing from her
proportionally fewer ; and that Britain, on the
whole, is importing and exporting proportion-
ally less from and to her colonies and dependen-
cies—that is, she is doing less trade with her
own kinsfolk. Obviously, the foreign manu-
facturer and artisan are profiting at the expense
of the British manufacturer and artisan ; and
as the total figures previously given likewise
show—Britain is losing trade all round.
* * * *
To sum up, Britain’s manufacturing industries
have commenced to decline, and unless she can
find fresh outlets for her products, or in some
way hinder the progress of her rivals in the old
fields, or reserve her home markets for herself,
the decay of her manufactures will follow upon
the decay of her agriculture, and the glory of
John Bull will have departed. These are some
of the results of the great Freetrade doctrine.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Vaccination and Vacillation.
The “Jenner Centenary”—the 100th anni-
versary of the first vaccination —occurred in
May this year, and was enthusiastically honored
by the leading medical associations of U.S.A.,
Berlin, and St. Petersburg. The Centenary
was also celebrated in a semi-official manner by
the old English town of Gloucester, which had
long been a head-centre of the anti-vaccinists.
The method of celebration was a smallpox epi-
demic which attacked about 2000 persons. A
violent reaction set in at once in favor of vac-
cination, and in a few days 25,000 out of a total
population of 42,000 (mostly “conscientious
objectors ”) submitted to the “ filthy nostrum
of the quack Jenner” —included in the ’verts
was a local editor who had long cursed the rite,
and who published his recantation. It is now
cabled that the Royal Commission which has
been sitting for seven years has reported that
“ vaccination is a necessary protection against
smallpox” and also records its opinion that
the law should not operate again t a child


-
1’roportion of Illegitimate to Total
Births.
Metropolis.
Country.
N.S. Wales.
1671-75 (average)..
511
3-72
4‘09
187<K90
6 21
3-41
yn
1881-85
6-60
3'26
4-3C
1SS0 ..
6-60
3'33
4*05
1?W7 ..
€•50
8'63
i-m
1866...
7‘tlo
3-6R
5-os
IS30 .
7-W)
«'»&
5'33
1S1H> .
7-81
391
0-26
1S91 .
6-20
3‘80
e-sa
!$02 .
8-83
4‘CM
5'72
isos,.
9'01
475
C'22
1804...
013
4-79
13-20
18116 ..
9'56
fi-02
G-.3I
whose parents had “ conscientious objections.”
The subject has two aspects —scientific and
political. The scientific question is of a
sort that is often left to experts —but the poli-
tical question is one that an Australian com-
munity would prefer to settle for itself. As
things are in Australia, small-pox is almost a
flegatidd. Occasionally an ocean-steamer brings
a ease td oUr shares—bilt the quarantine regula-
tions cornet it, and it ceases by effluxion of
time. But Sydney had its scare soide years
ago, when <£30,000 Was sp'erit iri buildings and
£54,000 on the care o'f patients and on! the isola-
tion of those suspected of, the contagion'. Small-
pox has to b,e imported—unlike typhoid arid
such fevers, which develop op the spot. Prac-
tically Australia has escaped small-pox iri fchb
past—but, if it ever does get a footing here, as
in England, then will be recognised the neces-
sity to turn to vaccination as a help in time of
trouble. The Royal Commission has found
against “compulsory” vaccination. The first
question involved is whether the State or the
parent has paramount interest in the welfare
of the child. The State already insists
that children’s births shall be registered, that
the children shall be sent to school, etc. If
the parents raised “ conscientious objections”
ip these things it would be without avail. The
State riot drily protects the child from cruelty,
b'rit it iiisisis (flat it shrill get the opportunities
of education. This is as much iri the State’s*
interests as the child’s. Tlie State decides that
ignorance is a danger. Similarly, the State cap
decide that non-vaccination is a danger—and
as far as the issue between State and child is
concerned there is no matter of conscience—it
is only the third party, the parent, that has
scruples. If vaccination is a good thing, and a
necessary protection, it is only weakness that
refrains from carrying it to a logical conclusion.
The Fiscal Referendum.
Labor-leader M‘Gowen agitated N.S. W.
Assembly, the other day, with a proposal for
submitting the weary fiscal issue to a referen-
dum, and thereby settling it definitely for five
years. The question which he suggests should
be put to the electors is simply : “ Will you
have Freetrade or Protection for five years
certain?” Whichever policy the country
decides for both parties are to unite loyally ill
carrying it out to the best of their ability, and
thereafter tile qriestion is to drop Until next
tieritiir'y. There ate some good points abortt
this propdsitioli, and sorrle that ate not so' godd
!jy a lorig wdy; The edriritry warits a referen-
dum which Will serve all purpose's ; riot a special
oiie which cari b'e Used only once, find on tile
fiscal qiiestiofi only. The drily tisib'le reason!
why a special referendum shorild be got up foT
the fiscal question in particular is that it will get
M‘Gowen and others out of a bad hole and lift
a ldt df responsibility off them. The Labor-
leadei’, like nriariy df his partisans, is a Protec-
tidnist arid alsd a supported df the land and
iiicoirie tax, and therefore tlie workings of the
party systeni left hint in ;l very Uwkward
dileiiima. The Lyne erdwd offered an instal-
ment of Protection and no direct taxation ; the
ReiD erdwd offered ail instalment of direct
taxation and no Protection ; and after mature
deliberation as to which fragment of a loaf the
party should accept it decided, rto doubt cort-
ecieUtidUsly, that the ReiD fragment was the
larger df the two. Bub still there is an
feeling that a big responsibility was incurred
in choosing between the two fragments, and the
choice may have been ill-advised, and a special
referendum will give the people a chance to grab
at the Lyne crust as well if it wants to, and
thereby ease the party of its moral burden.
The Bulletin, for its part, doesn’t see that
there is much to be gained by giving the people
a direct vdte only once on one question only.
Moreover* the people can’t by one vote relieve
M’Gowen and eo. front all responsibility on the
fiscal issue for five years 5 the voters who will
be dead three years hence can’t bind the new
voters who will have come of age by that time
to believe in any fiscal creed for two years
longer, and to deprive the new voter who
comes on the roll, say, in 1898, of his right to
re-settle the fiscal issue until 1901, is simply
disfranchising him for three years so far as that
question is concerned. And he will probably
want to know what power any dead men had
to disfranchise him on any one question
Without his consent. And, in any case,
the object of the referendum is to give the
people a direct vote on all important subjects ;
nob simply to relieve M'Gowen and Co. of the
one difficulty which won’t let them sleep at
night. Farther, if a single vote is taken on
this one issue one party must be extinguished,
and the probable result will be that that party
will be against the referendum thereafter, and
the complete application of the principle will
be further postponed. The Bulletin doesn’t
believe, as a general thing, in the cry of “ All
or nothing,” but it regards the present case as
one in which that axiom applies, and it hereby
treats the proffered half-loaf with contempt.
Trie Law and the Profits.
Dear Bulletin, —The Law Almanac is not
exciting reading ; but anyone who turns up the
list of barristers practising in N.S. Wales will
be staggered by the number of men who must
be dragging out a miserable existence in this
high-toned profession. How many of them
make a living God knows ! That is only one
aspect of the matter, though, and does not in
the least concern the public, who would nob
care if the whole of the profession were on
rations, or in Liverpool Benevolent Asylum.
Another is the want of interest which these
gentlemen show in all matters political, social,
and intellectual. In other countries, notably
England and America, the members of the Bar
have always taken a prominent part in every
movement, political or social, which had for its
object either the guidance or the education of
the people. Why do we find such a different
state of affairs here ? You can count on your
fingers the barristers of N.S. Wales who are
known to the public either by their work in
Parliament or on the platform. The reason is
not far to seek. Barristers now have lost sight
of those high ideals which are alleged to have
once animated the profession. Their vision is
Dow limited to the figures marked on their
briefs. The men who grab every bit of work
that comes in their way ; keep every nerve on
the strain lest, in a moment of relaxation, si
guinea should be dropped ; who burn the mid-
night oil in the attempt to grasp the dollars ;
these are not the persons to whom the public
can look for leading or for guidance. This
being the case with the leaders, the effect
of it on the junior members is to cause
them to follow ou the same track. They, in-
deed, do not scoop in the cash ; but they live
irt hopes of doing so, and in hopes of nothing
rilse'. Political knowledge, intellectual attain-
ments,' ciiltiire as a it hole, have no charms for
them ; tlffiir o'nly aim is td “ make money,” and
the' result is the seditions attention paid to
solicitors vHio' niay, if carefully cultivated, send
tjhetn work the acceptance of speculative briefs
for which 1 , the he ate Ho’ fees unless the case be
won ; and a! general sap'p'iffg of the independ-
ence of the profession. There are' exceptions
here, as there are to every rule ; but the excep-
tion is always said to prove the rule. To sum’
up : the members of the Bar have almost de-
generated into keepers of law - shops, and
second-hand shops at that, without an idea or
an aim beyond their business and the profits
thereof. Until they raise themselves above this
old-clo’ level, they will claim in vain the dis-
tinction of belonging to a learned profession,
and will continue to receive that scant respect
from the public at large which is their proper
due.— Shark.
. ———-4- =-=■
Tlier Halfpenny Aspect @f Things.
Sydney Da ifit’ Tel-egraph has been collecting
the opinions of a vast number of Sydney and
suburban aldermen arid mayors,- arid other
heavy functionaries, as to the practicability o'f
the proposed County Council. Their answers
are, in the main, very much alike. The follow-
ing, from a YVoollahra potentate, is a fait
sample:
There are some very good features in connection with
it, but 1 think the formation of a full County Council is
premature. A County Council works very well where
there is an amalgamation of old and settled communities.
But here, you see, the great stumbling block is the ques-
tion of finance, The taxation of the city of Sydney, as
levied by the corporation, is Is. 4d. in the £. The taxation
in the suburbs is about the same. But the city of Sydney
is able, out of this Is, 4d., to provide for all its require-
ments. A portion of the suburban boroughs are in a state
of bankruptcy, and, if the city amalgamates with these
boroughs, and they cannot get on with this Is. 4d., there
are only two courses open, Either they will have to in-
crease the taxation in the suburbs, or the city must assist
the suburban districts witli its revenues, lam inclined
td think the* ratepayer's of the city will not entertain that
for it momertt. If they had a surplus they would want a
reduction id their own rate's. Therefore, it is the financial
difficulty which starids in the way, and until that can be
satisfactorily got dve'r I cannot see how this County
Courted is id We Wrdrtght about.-
This is exactly the spirit in which the deep
financial fossils o'f Australasia have tackled the
Federation question aUcl prevented it getting
further forward. And this soTt of attitude
will prevent either State or municipal Federa-
tion getting any further forward. It \Vill
always be “ premature.” There will never in
the next 45,000 centuries be a time when all the
municipalities around Sydney or Melbourne, or
any other place, will be in exactly the same
state of solvency, and have exactly the same pro-
portion of debt or taxation dr assets or anything
else. It will always be the case so long as
the world lasts that if Sydney amalgamates
with Five Dock, and either of them can’t pay
its way on a rate of Is. 4d. in the £, the rate
\4ill have to be' raised. And if this is a reason
why the 40 municipalities around Sydney
shouldn’t amalgamate, it is all equally good
reason why Sydney should split into 40 more
municipalities, for if George-street can get along
with a rate of Is. in the £ it is manifestly un-
just that it should be taxed more heavily to
make up for the poverty of Mary Ann-street,
Ultimo. Hardly one of the wearisome aider-
men seems to take any account of the fact that
amalgamation w’ould largely reduce working
expenses, and that the saving in this direction
should more than make up for all losses. A ten-
tency to go down on all fours and search for a
farthing with a microscope pervades the whole
business, and the general aldermanic idea seems
to be that the entire scheme must stand still
until that farthing is found. Which further
confirms The Bulletin in its low opinion of
aldermen in general.
“Hugh Boyle ” to The Bulletin :
Regarding the question of illegitimate births in N.S.
Wales, touched on in a recent issue, I would like to draw
your attention to the following figures. The increase
shown therein should be capable of explanation :
These figures are correct, taken from the Statistical Re-
gister. Is it only a coincidence that since 1886, the earli-
est year in which one could expect the Public Instruction
Act of 1880 to have any noticeable effect on these figures,
the proportion of illegitimate births has, both in town
and country, from year to year increased? It is a very
interesting and very important problem, and I should like
to know what you, or maybe some of your contributors,
may have to say oil the matter.
Chief Justice Madden turned up at a Mel-
bourne church congress last week to defend the
Vic. Bench from a charge of heathenism hurled
by that super-righteous critic, parson Fitchett.
Mr. Madden on the religious lay was glib and
interesting as usual, and as usual he gave him-
self away with characteristic Irish enthusiasm.
He talked of the soul’s longing after immor-
tality (for it would be terrible to entertain the
thought of a Madden terminating in ashes and
dust), also of the decadence of nations through
want of faith, and the dreadful lesson of the
French Revolution. Then he dealt judicially
with “ the evidence of the public economist to
the effect that if a State is to succeed it must
be based on high purpose. When people can
see in successful chicanery anything but dis-
honor, their faces are set towards destruction,
and when this is allowed within the bounds of
any community, that community is looking to
the road leading to destruction.” Heavens
and earth ! John Madden, in the billets of
Supreme Court Judge and Acting-Governor, has
enjoyed particular opportunities for getting on
his hind legs to denounce successful chicanerists
and frown upon them in a sassiety way of
frowning. And how, deah friends, hath his
Honor employed these talents which the Lord
hath given him? Did the boomsters whom
Gov. Hopetoun had very properly cold-
shouldered come bouncing back to Government
’Ouse when Madden assumed the crown—or
didn’t they ? How has Judge Madden shaped
towards the nothing-in-the-£ insolvents, and
what are his notions of dishonor, anyhow ? A
good many people will accept his sermon as
evidence that his own cheerful face and waxed
moustache ate—little as he may suspect the
fact —set in the wrong direction. The circum-
stance' that he parts his back hair down the
middle, as though it were hair on the top of
his bald head, makes no difference. He looketh
towards destruction, notwithstanding,
—— 4“
Item from a recent early-closing meeting at
Sydney:
The Rev. Dili, Macky (Scots’ Church) said the' object of
the meeting was to promote a bill which had i?> view the
closing of shops at 6 o’clock each evening, excepting on
Wednesdays and Saturdays, with a half-holiday in the
middle of the week to compensate for the long hours on
Saturdays. His belief was that we lived too quickly. The
life of the average man was now 30 years, but he lived
more in those 30 years than did the patriarchs of old.
Some men, he knew, would not work. He had known 4s.
per day refused because the men said it was starvation
wages. For such men he would put work on one side
and raw hide on the other.
The Bulletin wonders if this good old hunky
bigot, who has actually known men refuse to
work for 245, a week, ever tried to live and
support a family on that wage himself. If he
hasn’t, then it suggests the formation of a
Society to make pastor Dill Macky live on 4s.
a day till further orders and see how he likes
it. This will be a beautiful world when the
Rev. Dill’s system comes in force. Thenevery
man who is out of work, and ean get work at
4s. a day, will have to take it, under penalty of
being flogged by the feeling apostle, and as
every boss will he able to get men at 4s. a day
no one will pay any more, and as a man at that
wage can’t put much in the plate Parson Dill
will probably have a hungry time. The re-
marks quoted, by the way, were made at a
meeting to promote the abolition of sweating,
and Parson Dill was on the platform as a
sympathiser with the sweated worker, and it
was in that capacity that he wanted to flog
people who wouldn’t work at 4s. a day. If this
is Scotch sympathy what is the other thing
like ?
■»- -
To The Bulletin from a N.S. W. male school-
teacher !
1 am one of nearly 400 teachers whose schools were re-
cently lowered from 9th-elass to lOth-class on account of
lessened attendance,
I have over 10 years’ service and 111. A classification.
My salary was £125 nett (including wife’s allowance
for teaching sewing) s it is now £lO3, and £2O for resi-
dence.
I have six children of my own,
I have not lost one month through sickness in whole
term of service.
I have never absented myself from duty.
I have never had complaints or been reported to iny
knowledge.
I have several times refused political influence offered
me.
I have given food to 18 travellers in one day, and never
yet turned a man away. I’m not religious ; but I’ll have
to refer them to some benevolent society in future.
If I patch my coat and trousers 1 lose the respect of my
pupils, and when the Inspector comes I shall lose marks ;
but I soon will be compelled to patch.
Further, I hate Chinamen, yet I am afraid I cannot
deal cash with anyone else, and if I get into debt the
storekeeper can have me dismissed if I cannot pay.
If the small attendance could be avoided by the teacher,
I should say serve him right: it can’t.
Does it seem just to you that after seven years’ service
(with present classification) I should he reduced to my
original salary ?
Is there not something wrong with the system which
allots such a fate to the bush-teachers, who do much of
the Dept’s hardest work under the most unpleasant con-
ditions, while single girls with no classification and not
half the service get as much salary in the cities V
Magistrate Panton, in passing some gilt-
edged remarks on the City of Melbourne Bank
business, post-dated the land-boom troubles a
few years. “ These overdrafts went on and
continued to increase,” said Panton gently,
“ until there passed over Melbourne that finan-
cial storm which succeeded to the period known
as the land-boom. Then the management real-
ised the loss, and set to work to provide for it.”
As a matter of fact the boom burst in 1889, and
during the years of waiting for the thunder-
storm to arrive every bank realised its loss and
knew that it was adding overdraft to overdraft
in order to conceal bad debts and avert a catas-
trophe. The general prayer of managers and
directors was, “Not in our time, O Lord!”
These elderly gents wanted to give themselves
a fair chance of death before dishonor, and it
says much for the tough consciences of sundry
Melbourne financiers that their banks haven’t
outlived them already. The C. of M. died
some time back, but not before Longmuik had
kindly left his corpse for the benefit of the
Board,
*
The Vic. Government seems to have made up
its mind to start building narrow-gauge lines
in the wilds of Gippsland. They are cheap,
which is a recommendation in the present state
of affairs ; and by adopting this sad and shoddy
expedient it is possible to get a lot of railway
for very little money, and thus open up the
districts which were so long neglected while
boom-lines were being heaped on top of each
other in the central counties. At the same
time, Vie, will almost certainly be very sorry
for the new departure by-and-bye. The narrow-
gauge line means the construction of special
rolling-stock. The rolling-stock is useful on the
narrow-gauge lines only; if some of it isn’t work-
ing and there is a press of business elsewhere
it can’t be shifted from one locality to another.
It can’t even be shifted from one narrow-gauge
line to another, if the only means of getting
there is over a section of the main line. It has
to be repaired in its own special district. The
goods carried by it have to be transferred with
great trouble and expense before they can
roach Melbourne, or any other large city.
There are inventions for minimising the trouble
involved, but even the best of them are laborious
and awkward. Moreover, the districts which
now swear that a narrow-gauge line will satisfy
them for many years to come only do so'
because they have to say something like
that to get their line at all. When they get
it they will almost certainly agitate and make*
their members agitate till the narrow-gauge
delusion is made a part of the general railway
system, and the expense of widening cuttings,
embankments, bridges, and tunnels, laying new
fails and sleepers, altering platforms, &c., will
make the proposed economy pan out very
badly. No part of Victoria will put up any
longer than- it can help with a worse railway
system than the rest of the province enjoys.
And in any case Australia has too many diverse
gauges already, and to add one more to the list
only makes the present very bad confusion a
shade-worse.
It seems a waste of time to talk of demo-
cratising the Vic. Leg. Council. Thirteen re-
tiring members were returned unopposed to
their" Fat Man paradise last week, and the eon-
test for a fourteenth seat is merely owing to
the fact that the late occupant doesn’t want to
go back to it. Victoria refuses to trouble
about the constitution of the Hupper 'Ouse.
Once inside, the most undesirable of legislators
can stay there on his demerits as long as he
chooses. The poor little proposal to oust Bar-
good collapsed for want of nourishment, and
the soft-goods deity was numbered among the
illustrious 18 aforesaid, together -with such
hardy annuals as Robert Reid and James
Balfour, whose fitness for dealing with amend-
ment of the Companies Act comes under the
head of “ questionable.” The country that
sends an ex-director of the Freehold Invest-
ment Co. to vote upon the matter of paying
divs. from paper profits certainly deserves to-
be misgoverned. Last week’s list of unopposed
councillors is sad, sad reading, brightened by
only one ray of hope. Thirteen is the unlucky
number, and the councillor doomed to die
within the year is bound to leave a vacancy.
Perchance the one who passes hence may have
a respectable successor.
:
TheN.S. Wales Civil Service Superannuation
Fund is growing more alarmingly insolvent
every day. The pensioners keep drawing their
pensions, and the old public servants who will
shortly become pensioners keep on paying, but
the young civil servants have retired almost
unanimously under the new regulations. There-
fore, the present and immediately prospective
claims haven’t diminished, while the revenue
out of which they are paid has gone down
seriously. Moreover, it is part of the bargain
under the new Act that the C.S. who stops con-
tributing is to receive back all his payments
with 3 per cent, compound interest when he
leaven the service. The reasonable course would
have been to let him have his money back at
once without interest, so that lie could have a
drunk with it to celebrate the reduction in hie
screw—the prospect of getting, say, £lB 10s.,
in 35 years or so, isn’t much to live for ; but in
that ease the claims would have shattered the
fund on the spot, so the evil day was post-
poned. The money to meet these refunds
hasn’t been put aside, so it is going to pay pen-
sions, and when it is wanted it will probably be
very much absent. Meanwhile, the idea of
largely reducing the pensions now being paid—
i.e., of Repudiation—is under serious considera-
tion. Many of the pensioners are too old to kick
much, and it seems an easy way of postponing
the difficulty a little longer. A large batch of
recently-retrenched civil servants have also to
be “ compensated ” this year, and if this com-
pensation comes out of the revenue a big deficit
is imminent. On the other hand, if it comes
out of the Superannuation Fund that institu-
tion might as well give up the ghost on the spot.
Dear Bulletin,— -Stand a little more “ meejuni
of exchange ” —from an avow r ed bimetallist
this time ? The fact is, we struck a snag, an
awkward one. Not all of us are Attorneys-
General, able to afford investigation trips to
Japan ; and some of us who can and do afford
it strictly limit our investigations while we are
there to other “ meejurns.” Most of us have,
therefore, to accept others’ words, especially
about gold and silver. Now, the whole point
in the yellow man plus white money versus
white man plus yellow money controversy, or
struggle, or whatever it is, is this : Now that
silver has fallen, does the yellow man demand
more silver coins? All bimetallist warnings are
based on the assumption that he doesn’t. The
common argument is something like this: —
“Coal from Japan used to lie sold at foreign
ports for (say) a sovereign a ton. For that the
merchant got (say) 4.V yen (silver money). Now
the merchant gets 7 or 8 yen, on account of the
fall in the exchange value of silver. But as the
purchasing value of silver in silver-using coun-
tries has not fallen, he pays away no more
yen than he did. He can, therefore, now
afford, if necessary, to sell his coal for
3 or 4 yen per ton less than he could before
silver fell, or, say, for 12s. 6d. per ton.
Thus” triumphantly “the yellow man
with the white money is,” &c. But now from
the East come some awkward figures tabulated
by the Japanese Monetary Investigations Com-
mittee. I don’t know the committee; it may
be a council of lunatics : but, anyway, it
gets its figures printed by good papers. And
if it lies, it lies with circumstance. The figures,
built on the lines of Sauerbeck’s index num-
bers, indicate the cost of living at Osaka and
Tokio during each year from 1873 to 1894.
Rice, the chief article of food, went from 100 in
the first year to 165 in the last. That is about
the average. Assuming the Jap. to be much
like the European or Australian in this respect,
no reliance is placed on comparative tables
showing the rise in wages ; but it is certain
that if there has been this advance in cost of
living, there has been (as is claimed) an almost
corresponding rise in wages. In that case—
well, though the principles of bi-metallism arc
not seriously affected, the most effective rally-
ing-cry to the poor white must hereafter have a
hollow sound ; and, after all, if it’s true, the
Newcastle coal-miner isn’t necessarily so near
extermination as some people have been care-
fully explaining to him that he is. Anyway,
the attention of Moreton Frewen ought to be
called to these figures ; for he laid it down as


The Hundredth Man.
Callaghan & Son,
395 George-st., Sydney.
That is the Man who cannot
get his Feet Fitted anywhere,
that is the Man we are looking
for.
EXPERTS IN FOOT WEAR.
CHEQUE BANK LTD,, LONDON.
Travellers’ Drafts Cashed all over the World hv nr.
Britain ’ oo ° BankS ’ and by over 2200 Ban '« in Great
Handbooks on Application
EXCHANGE,
56 Pitt Street, SYDNEY JAMES MALCOLM,
Agent.
After the Ball
drops, jl the gun fires
Jr
iK< s.
cji'
n lihW %
j
try
Old Dominion
Cigarettes,
They soothe the brain.
one of the main bases of all his appeals to Aus-
tralia that the silver coin in the East is as
valuable (or was at the time he spoke) as ever
it has been.—Cornered.
Ed. Bulletin, — Re Australian Universities. It
must be conceded in all frankness that Uni'
versify men have added nothing to our litera'
ture. We have no literature : one work of
fiction of almost second-rate greatness, and
certain short sweet lilts (whose motive has been
the novelty of nature here and whose incident
that of our social life) constitute our literature.
Nor can we have one till there is some great
life-struggle for nationhood. Our original
scientific work, too, has been fragmentary ; and
so it will remain until our Universities are made
to approximate more nearly to the continental
ones, especially to those of Germany. When
they are sufficiently well endowed to give life-
fellowships to distinguished observers, we shall
have good original work. Meanwhile, when a
man completes his course, he must turn into the
world and make a living. The weakness of our
Universities is that they are mere technical
schools for qualifying doctors, engineers,
teachers and lawyers ; that they have departed
and are departing from traditional models.
What will they become when they are put
more directly under the thumb of some illiter-
ate, fetich-worshipping Minister of Education ?
'V hat if the present Education officials (pro-
moted how ? and W'hen ?) had the exasperating
and cramping power of dictating to the Pro-
fessors of Philosophy and History their attitude
on parts of their curricula ? One word more.
There is something charming in the irony of
your correspondent Pvella in referring to the
“stimulating teaching” of the Sydney Pro-
fessors of Law and Philosophy ! He even
brackets them with Badham !—O.H.
The awful bunglesomeness of Protectionist-
leader Lyne was again exemplified in the debate
over M'Gowen’s proposal to take a popular
vote on the fiscal question. Premier Reid
offered to take the vote at next general election ;
M‘Go wen concurred; Lyne, who should have
grabbed at the suggestion with hands and feet
and teeth, and pinned Reid down to his pro-
posal on the spot, demurred. The two years
would have given the Free-raid party time to
hang itself comfortably. It would have given
time for it to show a big deficit, whereas now
it would go to the country on the strength of a
bogus surplus produced by a bogus cash basis.
It would have allowed N.S.W. to try a spell of
something resembling real Freetrade, which it
has never yet experienced, and see what the
tiling is like ; and given it time to forget what
a feeble apology for Protection the Lyne crowd
gave it when they were in power. It would
allow of the publication of two more issues of
the province’s statistics, and in them there
ought to be some good material for Lyne
and Go. to throw at the heads of unbelievers.
Inside two years the public will have leisure to
see whether the land-tax is the devastating
thing Lyne says it is, and to be disgusted at
the income-tax. By that time Victoria will
probably have recovered from the land-boom
smash, and will no longer serve the Free-
raiders as a “ dreadful example,” whose ill-luck
can be all put down to Protection. Another
bank should have gone broke by that time —The
Bulletin declines to mention which bank it is ;
and the N.S.W. sugar-industry ought to be
about dead; and the N.S. W. Benevolent Asylum
will have two more reports out ; and the people
who voted for Reid won’t be “ jolly and fat ; ”
and the Protectionist party may have a Sydney
morning paper of its own ; and many other
things that are now chaotic should have got
into order. If Lyne has faith in himself and
his creed this is the best time to do a lot of
peaceful waiting that can be imagined.
C.M.Gr.: “jRe the centenary of the Scottish
poet and the consequent trouble’ I found the head-
ing ‘ Death from Burns ’ repeated three times in
the Ace in seven days, but read no further, being
tired of the business.”
A lunatic post-mortemed at Ballarat the
other day yielded, besides nails, tacks, small coins
and road-metal, 95 pieces of blanket averaging
bin. by Sin. He had utilised his couch for bed
and board.
The Melbourne libel-suit of Cayrqn v. Dr.
Crivelli, arising out of the Alliance Co. mining-
case, will offer some interesting evidence of French
impetuosity. Plaintiff charges the doctor with
having called him an insolvent in prospective, a
robber, and a forger who had “played his last
card (ha ! ha !), and might be expected to blow
his brains out next morning. By way of protest
Cayron is now endeavoring to blow dhooo damages
out of his alleged defamer.
A Bulletin correspondent : Had the
Orangeism which cancerously permeates the Vic
police-force anything to do with the inability of
the police and detectives to find for a long period
a prominent Orange citizen for whom a warrant
was out and who was known to be hiding in a
little country town of 300 or 400 inhabitants ?
The advent of a reputed millionaire is agi-
tating Melbourne girls even in the outer circles°of
sassiety. At a recent hunt-ball every fairly dis-
tinguished-looking man was stared out of coun-
tenance on the off-chance that he might be Croesus
who was known to have arrived upon the scene!
Ihe style affected by the gilded stranger is rather
appalling. He turns up at a hunt supported by a
valet and groom, whereas His Ex., also an eminent
capitalist, by the way, is content to travel on his
vice-regal “ own.”
At Newcastle (N.S.W.), seamen’s wages
are now =B3 10s. a month. A little over 16s. a
week to live on the mouldering provender of the
ocean-tramp, and work all manner of hours, and
sleep in a leaky forecastle ! This is a great coun-
try.
Item : Sixty Chinese blouse-makers work-
ing for a Chinese firm in ’Frisco struck work be-
cause their wages-pittance was reduced. The firm
advertised for American sewing-girls, and next
morning 350 applied for the places at the reduced
wages.
A sunburnt individual in singlet, pants,
belt, and boots (? socks), an enormous wig of curly
hair, and no hat, is creating some astonishment in
bydney streets. Is this the alleged Nude Mac-
donald? But surely a Mac would show his
freckled legs.
Another versatile New Woman lias turned
up in Melbourne. Mrs. Fitts, asked what she did
to support herself, told the Court: “I keep a pi«'
and poultry farm, manufacture tallow, and am a
bone-collector.” A practical woman who will
never be without a scent.
Fitzgibbon, chairman of Melb. Met. Board
of Works, in his latest (official) note to the muni-
cipalities re his beloved Werribee ietty scheme :
AH the other jetties in the bay may well be tempted to
take headers and drown themselves in envy of the fame
of the new aspirant to the pierage.
When is this doddering person to retire ?
Interesting results should follow the cor-
respondence between the Melb. University Council
and one its teaching staff. Attached to the
Council’s first letter were sundry newspaper
cuttings, the matter of which has been the subject
of much talk amoug University people and the
public. It appears to be a case of “belling the
cat ” at last.
According to Premier Reid, there are only
1500 unemployed in N.S.W. Last Monday the
whole 1500 rolled up in one lot at Sydney Labor
Bureau after a Government scrub-cutting job—to
be paid for out of the loan funds—in the Bomm
district. If there are only 1500 of them altogether
this unanimity is simply appalling.
A Parkes story, re-dished by Patchett
Martin When Parkes was a working man
m Sydney, he was going home one Satur-
day night with the poor sum of ten shil-
lings in his pocket for his wife’s house-
hold expenses. But he chanced to see in a
second-hand bookseller’s window a book of William
Cobbett’s ticketed 10s., and at once entered the
shop, bought the book, and returned home penni-
less. . Not only did he commit this wild extrava-
gance, but in after years he boasted of it ! ”
The ennobbled Dibbs, stranded from
N.S.W. politics, is now drunk with the mimicry
of war Not content with forming a “National
Guard, he has bucked mas head swashbuckler of
the proposed Australian Rifle Corps, and mouths
berludy sentiments about “doing credit to the
nation from which we sprang.” But yesterday
before Her Gracious flapped him with the ennob-
bling sword at Windsor, Dibbs was understood to
be a red-meated Republican prepared to eat anv
raw monarchy on slight provocation. “Ruined
by baubles,’ wiH be the epitaph of posterity on
Dibbs missed greatness. J
IN MEMORIAM.
Harrison. In remembranceof James Harrison
who passed away suddenly in his cottage on Point
Henry, Oono Bay, 3rd Sept., 1893 ; aged 77 years.
He was the first man in the whole world to make
ice by artificial process on a commercial scale for
commercial uses. The invention pioneered the
way for a» the existing oversea traffic in perish-
able products. The inventor’s reward was finan-
cial rum. The world reaps the benefit. The man
himseif ,s by the world forgot. He sleeps in the
Geelong Cemetery, not a stone to mark the grave
Inserted by his only surviving brother, Daniel
on > Carolme-street, South Yarra. Mel-
The Scapegoat.
(Another view of the Bank Manager who is Dead.)
The man who’s dead—
Whose spirit fled
Before the bank went bung—
He bears the blame;
His evil fame
Reluctantly is sung
By live directors, one and all;
’Twas he who brought about the fall
By doing deeds beyond recall—
The man who’s dead.
The man’s who’s dead-,
He lost his head ;
He certainly went daft.
To pals in want
He’d gaily grant
A sinful overdraft.
The good directors did not know
Where all the money used to go-,
They put such faith in So-ancl-So
The man who’s dead.
No need to dread
The man who’s dead ;
He couldn’t breathe a word,
E’en though he’d fain
To-day explain
How certain things occurred.
Some sorrow for his fate wo feel—
Condemned for ever to conceal
The simple truths he might reveal
Were he not dead.
The man who’s dead
In narrow bed
Lies safe from mortal care ;
His sunken chest
Is not depressed
By what he has to bear.
Though bitterly directors rail
Against the victim of their tale,
No law can run him into gaol,
The man who’s dead.
The Wild-Cat Column.
A proposal for the reconstruction of the Queens-
land National Bank, which is gravely propounded by one
of its ex-officers, deserves the palm as being absolutely
the cheekiest thing yet mentioned in the reconstruction
line. In the first place, the other two Queensland banks
—the Itoj’al and the N.Q. —are to amalgamate with the
Q.N. They both have a good reputation for soundness,
and they have nearly five times as large a capital in pro-
portion to their liabilities as the Q.N. ; but it is suggested
that they should become responsible for that institution’s
liabilities, taking things just as they are. Then the Go-
vernment is to take £5,000,000 worth of shares, and pay
up £2,500,000 in cash ; so that the whole concern will
have a nominal capital of £10,000,000, of which £7,761,000
will be subscribed and £3,830,000 paid up—two-thirds of
it by Government. The Royal and the N.Q. would put
into the pool between them £610,000 of shareholders’
inoney and about £1,060,000 of liabilities; the Q.N.B.
would put in about £070,000 of shareholders’ money and
over £9,000-,000 Of liabilities. If half the advances of
the two smaller banks went bad and paid nothing
in the £ they could still meet all liabilities without
calling up fresh capital; if less than one-fifth of the Q.N.’s
advances went wrong it would be broke—vet the three
are (according to this authorised or unauthorised scheme)
to be _ lumped together on the same footing. The
State is to put up 21 millions and make itself liable for
another 21 millions, and it is not apparently to have
any preferential claim ; it is simply to come into the
hideously depreciated institution and give par value
for shares that are at more than 80 per cent, dis-
count. The other two banks are to come in at the
nominal value of their shares, regardless of the fact
that they are worth about 40 per cent, more than the
Q.N.’s shares on the open market. Also the new bank is to
be the sole note-issuing institution of the province, and
nothing is said about the State, which is to supply two-
thirds of the money, having any commanding voice in the
management. Also there is no suggestion about any
inquiry before the State comes in. It would be interesting
to know who inspired this amazing proposition, and if it
is really the small thing that the Q.N.B. is asking the
Government to do for it. The Kanakaland Bank’s capa-
city for asking small things is pretty well-known.
* * * *
The West Australian Bank announces that the
half-year’s profit up to 30th June is £12,284 against
£10,972 last half and £10,315 the one before, so that
things apparently continue to look up. The usual divi-
dend of 17 Yi per cent, per annum absorbs £7OOO and the
balance is carried forward. By way of grabbing the boom
by the forelock, this institution has issued 2000 more £lO
shares at a premium of £l2 10s., so the capital goes up
from £BO,OOO to £lOO,OOO, and the reserve fund from
£lOO,OOO to £125 000. The deposits have increased from
£1,326,000 to £1 V>S,OOO, which is a stupendous rise inside
six months, and s«vo-thirds of them bear no interest. The
bank has £929,000 cash on hand—it seemingly lives by
keeping the cash on hand and gloating over it - and its
advances are only £790,000. The quaint features about
the W.A. Bank are that it has a very small capital in pro-
portion to its deposits ; that it pays hardly any interest
on deposits \ that it lends out very little 11101163'' —the coin
it keeps to look at far exceeds all its advances ; and that
it is too conservative even to invest its money in State
securities, of which it only holds £20,000 worth. Its way
of doing business was well suited to the holy calm of old-
tune Westralia. In the howling’, stormy east no bank
with £lOO,OOO capital would be likely to get nearly
£1,900,000 of deposits, most of them free of interest, so
that it could pay huge dividends merely by lending out
half the depositors’ money and sitting on the rest. There
was a time when things were like that in the east, but it is
gone. If the W.A. Bank doesn’t stake its own immortal
sou on the boom, however, and doesn’t go booming
itself so as to be wrecked when the backwash comes, it
should have a great time while the bubble lasts.
* * * *
Apropos a recent Bulletin par. about lost notes
as a source of revenue. The Bank of Van Diemen’s Land
which broke in 1892, has still 1389 worth of notes out-
standing, and as only £3 worth were presented for pay-
ment durm;' the year, it is probable that the balance will
mostly never be heard of again. The Bank of V.D.L.
lived 03 years, and its highest note-circulation was
about 130,000. The prolit from note-leakage certainly
but still it is one source of revenue for the
.btate Bank to reckon with.
* * * *
The directors and auditors of the City of Mel-
bourne Bank were duly committed for trial, declarin'- to
t " e V ?P' ,ast , that it "’as the Man That’s Dead who did it
all. the burden of the addresses of counsel was to the
same effect; according* to them the board was a pure and
spotless idiot ail through, and everything that went wron«
was the fault of the Man That’s Dead. Even Magistrate
ran ton, in committing the defendants for trial, took up
the same tale:—“The late manager had the reputation of
a man of considerable ability and experience ; in fact, lie
had the reputation of being second to none in his profes-
sion in the Australian colonies. Naturally, the directors
as men who had seen the institution so far carried on
with success, had the greatest confidence in the manager,
i w M, ar r l 'V acU^! lts . wir . e so •Manipulated by the manager
that the hooks of the institution were actually falsified
I t had been contended for the directors that* the balance-
sheet was true and correct according to the books, and
that the directors, believing in the ability and inte-n-itv
, - th ? n A ma, ??? e r> were under the circumstances con-
\meed that this was the best course to adopt in tlie in-
terest of the bank. They followed, and they were led by
a man who had hitherto conducted the management of
the institution with success. But it had since turned out
as proved in evidence, and he regretted to say it that
this manager was untruthful and was capable of making
°/ f *}? e tia ' lk s for his own purposes.” And so
rWoocU’f 0 Bl m u T ’ LN A as any Nation to the poor old
deceased it would hire the most brassy barrister it could
find to appear on behalf of the memory of Colin Lonmnuir
and nve his apparition a chance to clear itself. So"far it
ThnPaTwi S i lnt Tu* fc say 1 » Wol ' d on behalf of the Man
That s Dead, and his ghost doesn’t get a show.
* * * *
i Vic A ori ; l se ® u }® to have every prospect of another
ui ought, almost, if not quite, as disastrous as that of last
In the "heat-growing districts the rainfall up to
date lias been about the same as that up to Aug., ’95 and
Zlr^ C in a Ti COm fi Very ? hortly more bad luck is in
stole foi the distressful province. Two droughts in suo-
cMMnomnmg just after the boom would about knock
the bottom out of Victoria.
* * * »
iBq?‘nnv V A sfmu ayS for year ended 30th June,
1896, pay £3 Bs. lOd. per cent, on the capital invested—a
serious falling-off from the £3 12s. per cent of the
yeap - 5 s - W - Government tramways pay
£3 13s. 9d. per cent, on cost, the same as last year
r * * * *
£h e rael¥l h ol ' s of the A.M.P. Society, at a
thinly-attended meeting, the other day, abolished the bye-
law which makes a director or auditor, after he has
served his term, ineligible for re-election until 12 months
by - Therefore, in the future, the same crowd
"A he returned—largely by the aid of the proxies which
shaieholders at a distance send in blindly without askin'.-
vlm St + 0 i nS A. yeai ' af - ter year ‘ If things were going wrong-
" L' 16 bl f, . soclet .V the advent of a new director or
auditor would be a safeguard of a kind ; he isn’t responsible
°‘P ast wrong-doings ;he is the only man on the board
\\ ho can expose them without condemning himself; and
he has a distinct interest in exposing them, because if
lie doesn t he becomes an accomplice and accepts
a * hai :® of tll e responsibility. But if the same people
?. re ., to i einam in office year after year, then
n4?n^ii y ”f° eS wron n under their management they
will naturally stay on and cover up the disaster—probably
untd it is past remedy. And, under the new system it
wifi be practically impossible to shift any of them and
rta.vhght mto the concern, without raisin'.- a
riot, n Inch will damage the business woefully. It would
teresting to know who first formulated the idea of
abolishing the old safeguard ; and why it was formulated
a H he present disastrous period, when the huge
business is liable to go very cronk through the constant
?E ,a i ° n r , Property, and needs more close watching
than it ever did before, Tim Bulletin wants to know °
The Bank of N.S.W., the Union, and the ’Asia
have reduced fixed deposit rates in Victoria to 21 percent
months and 1 per cent, for shorter-dated deposits!
What chance has the reconstruct with a vast dead vveitrht
of 41 per cent, deposits fixed for a long term under Sir.
cuinstances like these ?
.** * *
The Victoria Insurance Co. shows a profit for
the year, ended 30th June, of £17,058, and, in its yearning
to pay the stupendous dividend of 35} per cent, it divides
among its shareholders £17,974, or £916 more than its
earnings. The amounts received from interest and rents
dropped in one year from £5027 to £3977, which looks as
if some of the securities were rather less healthy than thev
were. The Victoria is a solid concern, with £50,000 capital
and £BO,OOO of reserves, but even a very solid concern is
not well advised when it rushes quite so violently as all
this after a .35)4 per cent, dividend, in the face of a large
reduction in profits. °
* * * *
Equity Trustees, Executors, and Agencv Co
(Melb.) shows a profit for the half-year of £B44?and'pavsa
6 .PJjF cent. d|v. (£625). Last half-year it had a profit o'l
£483, and paid 1025 div. all the same. The first half of
1895 it had a profit of £5BO, and paid £625 div. hist as
usual. This time it comes out right by accident, but ap-
parently it doesn’t matter in the least to the Equity wliai
the profits are; the good old div. comes alow
* * * %
N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co. has done a sudden
slide downhill. Profits for the first half of ’96 are £2507
against £6075 and £4998 for two previous halfwears A
dividend of 6d. per share absorbs all the profit save’ £7
and prospects look worse than they have done for a verv
long time. Sydney Exchange Co. reports a profit of £914
against £1622 last half, and a reduced div. at 7 per cent
absorbs £lO5O, leaving £136 to the bad on six months’
operations. In fact, the general tendency of almost
everything in N.S.W. is still downward, and the blessed
revival—where is it ?
* * * *
From Ist January to 22nd August, ’OO, the im-
ports at Sydney amounted to £10,424,466 and exports to
only £7,227,575. The Foreign-trade theory is that im-
ports are naturally and invariably paid for by exports.
These figures seem to show that imports can be partly
paid for by living on our accumulated capital or bv going
m debt, and pawning the country still more deeply to the
foreign capitalist. If imports were always paid for by
exports, then a country couldn’t get into debt.
* * ¥ *
G-oodlet and Smith, the Sydney firm whose
cement works closed up on the advent of Freetrade, are
resuming business—at greatly reduced wages, so as to
compete with low-wage competitors abroad. The policy
which was to make the community jolly and fat once
more.
* * * *
The Maoriland Midland Railway Co. has left a
number of its land-buyers in the lurch by the good old
time-payment swindle which has become so familiar of
late years. The co. obtained its land-grant by instal-
ments as it pottered along with its railway, and sold the
land to farmers on long terms. When a man bought £5OO
worth of land and paid £5O cash he was required to give a
mortgage for the balance of £450, and this document re-
mained in existence until the last instalment was paid.
The English co. pawned these mortgages, and went on
collecting the instalments, and seemingly applied them,
not towards paying otf the mortgages, but to its own pur-
poses. Consequently, the buyer finds that the whole £450
is still due, and he is no nearer getting his title than he
was before. And as the co. is broke, and the ruins of it
are at the other end of the globe, no redress is obtainable
from it and nobody' seems to be responsible. The Briti h
syndicate has more ways of being a bowelless fri.u 1
than any other institution Tiie Bulletin knows of.
* * * *
Castlemaine (Vic.) Brewery Cl, in the boom-
time of 1888, wrote up the book-value of its properties
£59,.090, and thereby ran its reserve up to £BO,OOO. Now.
it writes them down £65,000, and the reserve gets back (o
£15,000. The story of the boom in a nutshell.
* * * *
Now that the City of Melb. Bank peopl e are
committed for trial, the next question to consider i->
which Judge will take the case. Also, how will he take
it —with a suppression of the most damaging evidence, or
with all the simple facts laid bare? And, as regards the
Federal balance-sheets, aren’t they worth committing for
trial, along with the interesting literature of certain other
institutions ?
* * * *
It is proposed to dam the Brisbane river (Q.)
above Ipswich, and generate and transmit electric force
to work machinery in Ipswich and Brisbane and trams
in the latter town. But suppose the dam burst .
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —“ If bricks are cheap in Mel-
bourne, timber is atrociously dear, thanks to the ‘ ring ’
that controls the market.”—Builder.
* * » *
Sargood, on the Companies Act Amendment
Bill, had the cast-iron effrontery to say that though Vic-
toria is far behind the “old country” in company law,
the O.C. has “attained a pre-eminence in rascality not
yet reached here.” A statement of that sort, made in
Parliament for publication by the local press, ought to he
a punishable offence. Sargood can’t name any modern
instance of British financial rascality', barring the Jabez
Balfour, to compare with the unpunished crimes of Smell-
bourne. And J.B. is doing his 14 years. Jfe has to pay
for his rascality, whereas the Melbourne villains have
swindled gratis.
* * * *
The travesty of justice by which a whilom
J.P. was acquitted by direction of the Judge on a charge
of alleged fraudulent conduct as an agent or bailee, has
almost roused the Victorians to take a languid interest in
the state of the law which pots a dishonest “servant” but
daren’t try an alleged fraudulent “agent” or “bailee.”
The position appears to be this : A authorises B to pay
money to O : O collects the money and keeps it : the
Victorian Crimes Act knows no reason why he should not
keep it. If C bad been a “servant” of A he would have
been guilty of felony. But an “ agent ”is too respectable
to be made a felon.
* * * *
A Melbourne merchant advertising for a travel-
ler last week got an application from one genius who
stated that he had gained “ 12 months experience on the
roads in Western Australia,” and another who described
himself as “a good salesman, besides having won prizes
for elocution.” For ordinary bagman purposes an
amateur elocutionist would be reckoned about as desir-
able as an epic poet, or an Isaac Newton.
+ * * *
Latest English advices indicate that the great
“one-man company” case, Broderip v. Salomon, which
decided that such palpable evasion of the Act was illegal,
and that the real owner of the business must indemnify his


Bleaching Powder, Cyanide Potassium 98/100 %, Soda Ash,
Caustic and other Sodas, Borax, Litharge, and all other
Chemicals.
■test possible prices, far cheaper than Drug
Houses.
Hy.^arkwaSd,
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
178 William-st., Melbourne
Peel-street, Adelaide.
lIME IS MONEY!
“YOST”
“DENSMORE”
“ CALIGRAPH ”
BOSS
MACHINES OF THEIR
CLASS.
h
United Typewriter Si Supplies Co. of London
and New York,
114 Pitt-sfc., SYDNEY ; Temple Court, MELBOURNE ;
Barrack-st., PERTH ; Sub-agencies—Adelaide & Brisbane.
FREE TRIAL. FREE TUITION.
Write for Catalogues and particulars.
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING.
ryL^
sf’ir'S
DICKS
Is Two and a-half times tlie strength of best English
Leather Belting - .
SEND FOR CATALOGUE to
"Wm. A.dLams «Sz Compy.,
Oil Merchants »V Engineers’ Furnishers,
71 Clarence-st„ Sydney; 621-523 Collins-st., Melbourne.
dummy co-shareholders, is about to be overruled by the
Lords. Vaughan - Williams’ original judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeal, and the defeated party
carried it on in formd pauperis to the Lords, which
treated the hostile arguments with contempt, and
did not even call upon appellant to reply. Such a
decision will be a calamity in company law, and the Vic.
Legislature, now in the throes of company-legislation,
should immediately insert a clause to nullify it. It is a
direct invitation to create sham companies, and to cast
off one’s personal obligations by turning one’s business
into a limited liability co.
* * • *
Re Yic. apiarists, N.S.W. ditto are not far be-
hind. In the West nearly every railway-fettler and small
landholder has at least 15 or 20 hives. Honey last season
fetched 3d. per lb. on the farm. One large bee-owner iri
the ’95 season netted £1 per hive, but in the past season
the “ extracting ” business was overdone, and the bees
decimated by overwork and the heat.
* * * *
Down South there is an anxious time among
grain and fodder Speculators. Falling prices coming with
quick and sharp snaps stiffen the backbone of operators,
and a nervous terision rules Such as the market has not
experienced for years. SOme dealers are bound to go
Under before long, and iri certairi cases sonie very un-
healthy traders Will be cheerfully assisted in the process
of obliteration.
* * * *
No worider property is being pulled down all
over Melb. to save the sewerage and other rates. This ori
a store in centre of town “To Let, this store with
2 flats and 4 rooms—6s. week.”
* * * *
From letter received by Sydney man who had
answered advt. for a partner “In confidence. My Dear
Sir,—l am pleased to meet you, and beg to give details of
a proposal that will bring profit and credit to us both, or
a third party if necessary. Your outdoor abilities and
my indoor experience will enhance the chances of each
making at least £3OO the first year, with a fair show of
making up a year’s profit to total £2OOO. The capital
required is a minimum of £loo—for a horse, or two horses
and a sulky, an office and furniture, and a suit of clothes,
including a top-hat, and a brass plate at our door. I say
again, your outdoor abilities in selling make me give you
this offer; although I know of many with £lOO, they have
not the brains or appearance. My experience has been
extensive, having retired once five years ago, and am
now going to make another fortune at it. I’m certain.
I have not a spare Is. now ; therefore, you must find
£lOO if you join me as half-and-half partner.—Yours
truly, .” A long hat means a frock-coat. Great
are the Long Hat and the Frock Coat! Also the Brass
Plate.
* * * *
Assigned cause of a current Sydney bankruptcy :
“ I built a house.”
* * * *
Some evidence given before N.S.W. Public
Works Inquiry Commission : “As a matter of fact, the
workmen were never told to do indifferent work, but it
sometimes happened that the foreman would commence
it, and the workmen had to follow suit.” Example and
precept.
* * * *
Half-a-crown-a-week shop-girls in Sydney have
to stand (or lose their half-crown billets) for 12 hours a
day. Which gives the agitators for the supply of seats
per Act of Parliament an aid to their arguments;
although the employer is not' yet born who couldn’t, and
is pretty scarce in Sydney who wouldn’t, find 50 different
methods of making his shop-girls stand all the time, in
spite of 50 Acts of Parliament.
* « * *
Mr. J. R. Fairfax, of S.M. Herald, joins the
B.N.S.W. board in place of Mr. Thos. Buckland, now 80
years old, and seriously ill.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —“To-day is the day of big
things.” “Big” industry (in French phrase) has wiped
out little industry; the big mutual store or limited lia-
bility co. of 700 or 1000 shareholders has eaten up.and
altogether annihilated the individual trader. When a
big store or large manufacturing co. starts this canni-
balistic process is there any talk of compensation ? Yet if
a majority of the community start a co-operative concern
of any sort through their officers, the Government of the
day, there is forthwith heard through the length and
breadth of the land a howl for compensation—Compensa-
tion ! Did the howlers compensate the small private
firm or individual trader whom they wdped out ?—B.
•** ' •
The extension of the Melbourne railway system
from Spencer-street to Princes Bridge has been a curse to
certain Melb. property-owners. It was anticipated by
everyone that that portion of the city from the corner of
Bourke and Spencer streets and right along Flinders-
street to Elizabeth-street would be almost fabulously
increased in value by the aforesaid extension. The
reverse has happened, and as far as hotel properties are
concerned the expected improvement has blasted the ex-
pectations of those unfortunate tenants along the thor-
oughfare who leased the premises at boom-price rentals.
Hardly one of the eight or ten big pubs, along the line
can show from week to week even what might be called
a book-keeping profit.
* * * *
W. Alison, Vice-President of Sydney Bimetallic
League, debits this against monometallism and the appre-
ciation of the present “ meejum ” :—“ In N.S.W., at 1873
prices, 100,000 bales of wool would have paid the interest
on our present public debt; it now takes 200,000 at pre-
sent prices.”
* * * *
A Charleville butcher lately sold a hide in Bris-
bane for £2 14s. It weighed no less than 911 b. A caution,
isn’t it, when the hide fetches more than the carcase ! If
this sort of thing continues, Queensland will drop the
cattle-industry and take to raising hides alone.
* * * *
The Broken Hill mines have so far, this year,
rather more than maintained their record of one fatal
accident per div. During the first seven months of the
year there were 10 fatal accidents, 12 serious but not fatal,
and 21 less serious, but bad enough to be reported to the
Mines Dept. Meantime, there is persistent cutting in
contract-prices, with the result that the majority of old
v’orkmen who are not absolutely tied to the Hill are
following their bosses to the West, and new 7 and often raw-
hands are replacing them.
Old and practical miners, who are themselves
small shareholders, complain unceasingly, when they can
do so in confidence, of the waste of ore and of timber by
present methods. Men are paid by the foot or the “set”
—all they have to see is that “ the tape stretches ” so far.
No great care is therefore taken to prevent the ore from
becoming mixed with the mullock ; and thousands of ton 3
of good stuff are thus thrown aside and used for filling up.
Then, since the object is to get the ore, &c., away any-
where—it doesn’t matter to them where —extravagantly
heavy charges are put in, and the material is shot through
the bottom timbers, crushing and splintering scores of
them every day. Again, suppose a drive or a stope is
following airing near the wall, leaving two or three feet
between the outside timbers and this casing. Now,
though this portion of the lode is generally the richest,
it is invariable left by the contractors. But if the miners
were paid per ton, just as coal-miners are, not only would
every pound of this ore be taken out, but greater care
would be ordinarily exercised in the working faces.
Metallurgist Savage, who was Schlapp’s under-
study at the B.H. Proprietary, leaves the big co’s employ
to take charge of the same branch at the Ashcroft sulphide
works, Newcastle.
The chairman of the Yuba resigns. The first
out.
The large volume of water which is draining
into the deep level of the Junction, though delaying
mining operations, is taken to be a very good sign. (Most
things in mines and mining, by the way, are taken to be
very good signs.) The ore from which such large quanti-
ties of water drains must, it is thought, be “ spongy ” ;
and it is this stuff which, when found in the sulphide
zone, generally contains the lowest percentage of the
worse than unprofitable zinc. It reads well for the Junc-
tion North, and points to the probability of better patches
of stuff being found in the North than have so far been
worked.
A sensational fall of ro.of happened on Monday
week at the Wickham and Bullock Island Colliery (New-
castle). From Friday, 21st, to Monday, 24th, bumping
bad been heard at irregular intervals in the district where
the fall took place, and the men working there were
withdrawn. The mine is 23Gft. deep in this section ; the
seam (with bands) 21ft. 6in., and the consequent enor-
mous dislocation of the superincumbent strata is evi-
denced by extensive surface fissures traversing the public
roads and adjacent swamps. These swamps are covered
at high-water, and the miners naturally fear that the
tidal waters may percolate through and invade the work-
ings. This opinion is not shared by the manager, who
relies on the 100 ft. of grey post rock immediately abov'e
the coal and another 9ft. band of strorig blue clay to check
any inrush of water. The immense mass of disturbed
cover is still grinding and crushing ori the solid Byd.
pillars, from the face of Which the varying pressure is
forcing large flakes and lumps. So much cpal has
been shivered off in this way that it will need
two shifts of 200 men to clear the roadways. The Govt,
inspector refuses to state whether the mine is safe or riot,
but should the men desire to resume Work will go dowri
with them and advise. The men Want to leave the mine,
but the management, viewing with alarm their desertion
at a time of scarcity of skilled labor, declines to allow
them to remove their tools, and insists ori the usual
14 days’ notice. They threaten to proceed agairist the
nieri, but this is palpablj 7 mere bluff, for it is idle to main-
tain either that men cari be forced to Work under condi-
tions of prima-facie danger or be made to suffer for
their refusal. The workings of this mine extend under
the Waters of the harbor, and so shallow is it (at orie
part) that the miners at work can hear the pulse of pass-
ing steamers, the rattle of chains, and the thud of falling
anchors.
* * * *
Highland Mary (Swamp Oak) N.5.W.—147 tons
for 5800 z., and another 200 oz. at least in pyrites and tail-
ings. The vein averages 18in., worked to a depth of 200 ft.
and over 300 ft. in length ; country rock, a Gympie-like
black slate, with bars of diorite outside. This, like many
another good mine, has paid its way from the jump ; the
only capital required was the rent, and that because it is
payable in advance. Owned by the Brown Bros., who
know a mine and how to work it when they find a good
one.
* * * *
Grenfell, N.S.W. : —“The sal* of the Young
O’Brien gold-mine to an English co. has been completed.”
Money not stated. A good prospect at a moderate price.
Vein nearly three feet; length of ore chute about 200 ft. ;
worked to a depth of 300 ft., and little or no development
work below that level. Value of ore, under the oz. and
more than half; most of the gold is carried in a four to
six-inch streak running in the centre of the vein.
* * * *
From Stuart Town .comes too much news of
other mines and not enough concerning the old patch-or-
nothing mine, Golden Gully. Silence %bout a mine occurs
either when it is very rich or very poor.
* * * *
As more than onee predicted by the writer, the
Cobar boom is almost played out. Says a local paper:
“ Wild cats, like chickens, come home to roost. Cobar
has been overdone, or, rather, done to death by boomers
and sharks, and most of our boomed stocks stink in the
nostrils of speculators.” Most of these “ cats ” are in the
locality of Barrass and Conley's wonderful property, and
the fact that B. and C. found the gold on a 250-acre selection
which they bought (besides taking up several outside
leases) was somehow or other omitted from each pro-
spectus ; also the fact that that property itself has not
been sufficiently developed to say whether it is going to
be as big as it looks.
* * * *
Oobar : “ There has been a fall in Mt. Pleasant
shares.” And no wonder. Last crushing it was 900 z.,
“from a rough clean-up,” this time only 500 z., and noth-
ing about the roughness of the clean-up. “ Better re-
turns are expected.” “ Worse returns ” seem never to be
expected. The sooner Cobarites admit and act on the
unmistakeable truth that their mines are too low-grade to
pay more than wages when worked with 10-head batteries
without cyanide, and take the Occidental as an example
of it, the better for the camp.
* * * *
Cobar : “Specimens taken from the Queen of
the Earth mine, Coolgardie, are on view here. They are
wonderfully rich.” Specimens as rich as these are never
found at Cobar —which is a very good thing for the dis-
trict, if people only knew it.
* * * *
New Bushman’s, N.S.W., eight weeks’crushing,
960 tons, 11220 z. But, why eight weeks ? Also, if they
keep a heavy 20-head mill going, how is it they crush in
two months only a little more than the mill should put
through in one ?
* * * *
The rainfall in Coolgardie district during ’95
(the only year for which there is a complete record, and
which is believed to have been an exceptionally wet year)
was only 6'79in. It cannot be safely assumed that the
average rainfall would exceed sin. The average at
Southern Cross for the last two years has been s’26in.
* * * *
It seems pretty plain that at the best the price
of water at Coolgardie under the proposed Govt, scheme
(which will take at least three and possibly four years to
carry out) will be between 3s. 6d. and ss. per lOOOgals.
Compare this with Bendigo, where the Govt, supplies
batteries at 2id. per lOOOgals., and ask when are they
going to have "cheap mining on Coolgardie ?
* * * *
If the Financial Times is to be believed, Prof.
Nicholas has written a great report on the Gladiators’
mine in the Black Flag district, W.A. “He now states
that he has several thousand tons of ore which will give
lOoz. to the ton, and that the reef is now exposed for a
length of 1000 ft. As £40,000 worth of ore is now actually
in sight, it is clear that he is not reporting haphazard,
and "that it only requires the completion of the winding
machinery and crushing plant to give definite and perma-
nent results.”
* * * *
The block at Fremantle (W.A.) grows worse
and worse, and steamers from the East now race for berths,
sometimes passing Albany and carrying with them cargo
consigned to that port.
* * » »
No sane person would take serious notice of
mine-puffs printed in Westralian papers run by com-
panies consisting of people interested in the different
local mines. It often happens that when, according to
the local Archimedean lever, an alleged mine has fiOOO
tons of 4oz. stone at grass, the unprejudiced stranger can
on inspection find no indications of any metal whatever,
save some rusty jam-tins.
* ‘ * * *
United Scotchman, Norseman line of reef, has
crushed 1000 tons for 1200 oz. Shares, 12s. before the
crushing, but quickly slumped. Claim (writes a Bulletin
correspondent) is badly pegged—the cap of the reef being
three chains from their east boundary. The reef, under-
lying 45deg. to the east, at about 200 ft. will be in Dr.
Simon’s co.’s claim.
* * * *
The saddest of sad sights in Westralia is the
number of English companies working “mines” on salt-
bush flats, miles away from any known lode or auriferous
belt, with no possible chance of ever finding a reef, much
less gold. J. Bullion is cheerfully finding the coin to keep
up this ghastly farce. Main shafts are going down, and
the most modern and costly mining machinery going up.
The managers, who have to keep writing reports, have a
sick time, and the men in the “ mines” and the engineers
0 n the plants take no pride in their work. Some have
aeen men enough to walk off, to work on such jobs being
more than they could stand. One day, when the boom
is dead, and the money all spent, some local newspapers
will assert their independence by publishing a list of these
salt-bush “cats.”
* * • *
London Financial Bulletin (which, judged
from a recent leading article, appears to be drunk most of
its time) shrieks over the success of the “ Ore Auto-
matic reduction process.” The secrets of the process are
not revealed, but it is gently whispered that “ heat, and
the action of certain combined gases on the ore, effect the
disintegrating process.” The hardest quartz is reduced
to sand of the finest powder in from 20 mill, to an hour,
and, said the chairman df the W.A. Trading Syndicate;
vVhich has secured the patent rights, “ the extraordinary
thing is, as rie found froni careful experiment, that if the
ore fails to break into particles within an hour, it is proof
positive that it contains no metal.” The process appears
to be an infringement of one being worked out by the
writer, that riot only declines to waste its valuable time in
breaking up metalless ores, but indignantly Chucks them
Out arid hits the feeder iri the eye.
* * i *
Mt. Malcolm (only about 200 miles from CoOl-
gardie) “ Beef ahorit two feet thick, well-defined ; equal
to about Joz. stone. Big reef, have opened out on
sanie arid put in some shots, but so far have
found nO gold.” This, rio doubt, is the reef rumored
some time badk as 13ft. thick arid to go at least
lOoz. It also caused jumpers to turn up. Had they found
such a reef, the Sydney crowd may console themselves
with the reflection that they would certainly have lost the
mine. A poor mine with a poor title is quite safe in W.A.
* * • «
Boomster Alick Forrest having been to London
and formed a big bullion co., now, as a legislator, moves
to amend the W.A. Gold Fields Act to provide that, for
the first twelve months after the approval of an applica-
tion for a gold lease, not less than two men should be
employed on the lease, after which the present labor-con-
ditions should come in force. How disinterested! Two
men for the first year ! 100 acres manned by eight men !
How very lovely for the boomer!
* » * *
There is but one paper in London, so far as the
writer is aware, which has the audacity, or independence,
to receive prospectuses, and in the same issue condemn
the schemes as unworthy of public investment. Last
year it foreshadowed the downfall of Bhodes and Bar-
nato. It has established itself by its simple respect for
truth. It writes of W.A. mines thus: “One of these
days it may be possible to deal in Westralians on a square
sort of basis, knowing what one is doing and what one is
getting for one’s money. But that time is not yet. With
very few exceptions, the Westralian mines are unproved,
and their value, if any, unknown. To deal in them is
simply to deal in gambling-counters, and to back any of
the numerous offspring of Hannan’s and other prolific
company-producing districts is gambling with much
longer odds against one, and under far less"agreeable con-
ditions than to back a number at the infantile sport of
petits chevaux, so popular in continental casinos.”
* * * *
London shareholders in Bay ley’s are disgusted.
They held a meeting at the end of June, at which it was
observed that very soon after tens of thousands of shares
were placed in London regular divs. suddenly ceased with-
out any explanation from the directors ; and it was deter-
mined that the gold in the tailings should be exhausted
before consent to reconstruction was given—and not then
until the details of the scheme were properly placed before
them. Poor Bull, how he must appreciate the Australian
press !
* * * *
Great Scott! the fact that a mine near Cool-
gardie is crushing is wired across : “ The Black Prince is
crushing 20 tons at the Mt. Burgess battery.” By the
way, what has become of the Mt. Burgess mine?
* * * *
The beginning of the end—Sydney D.T. has
begun to publish W.A. mining-wires in the same small
type as that devoted to other mining news. Discovered
at last that the ill-starred Coolgardie goldfields have been
starred too long.
* * * *
Already some 50 alleged inquirers have been
very strongly advised by the Sabbath tipster to “ buy
Welcomes when they come out shortly.” No regret is
expressed re the tipped stocks already out and gone very
much back again. A few at random—present prices :
Ore Becovery ; sellers, lOd. ; no buyers. Lady Brassey ;
last quotation, Bd.; since dropped right out of the
market. Sulphides, for paid-ups, buyers offer, 2d., con-
tributing ; doubtful if they can be much more than given
away. Mt. Malcolm’s, the great W.A. show ; buyers, 9d. ;
sellers, Is.
* * * »
Golden Age, Menzies, W.A. : 55 tons, 3730 z.
Fraser’s, Southern Cross, W.A. : 850 tons, 5860 z. High
and low-grade, and both good enongh.
* * * *
At a meeting of a W.A. gold-mining syndicate,
commencing operations with a capital of £2BBO, held in
Fremantle lately, it was proposed and carried that the
remuneration of the directors, five in number, should be
2s. fid. a meeting.
* * * *
“ And why have you had so many managers ? ”
said the newiy-appointed on arrival at the Coolgardie
mine. “ Well,” replied the local director, “we have to
change something. You see, we can’t change the mine.”
The new manager was thankful, it prepared him for the
shock of seeing the mine.
* * * *
“ How was it you sold your leases in Westralia
to an English company?” “ Well, you see, I first of all
opened them up, and proved to my own satisfaction that
they were duffers, so I thought it was time to sell them.
Now Mr. Bull is also proving to his satisfaction that they
are ‘ cats,’ but I am afraid he will not be able to sell them,
and I am very sorry for him.”
* * * *
The Vic. Minister of Mines might as well dis-
cover what Wallace,M.L.C., is doing with his vast alluvial
goldfields in the Yackandandah district. Information as
to results obtained from the small portion of the mining
leaseholds already operated upon would probably account
for Mr. Wallace’s apparent disinclination to maximise the
value of his property. How much gold per acre does this
gilded legislator reap, and why isn’t he required to furnish
full and particular details, like the ordinary kind of
mining-righter ?
-• * * *
The promised Victorian legislation for ventila-
tion in mines will not come a day too soon. Dr. Eadie,
Bendigo health officer, speaking" of the deaths from
phthisis in the district, says that the rate will increase
until such time as adequate ventilation in mines is made
compulsory by Parliament.
* * * *
The permanency and regularity of Collins’reef,
worked so successfully by the Long Tunnel and Extended
mines at Wa’.halla, are almost without parallel in Aus-
tralasia. It has gone from the surface to a depth of
1722 ft. without a break. The monthly yield of each mine
averages about 2100 oz. The Tunnel Co. has produced to
date about 610,0000 z. (say 25 tons of gold, value
£2,128,090); paid in divs. £1,144,200, equal to £467 per
share. Nothing has been spent to prospect for other
parallel lodes probably running through its leases. Com-
pared with the Extended mine, it appears to be expen-
sively worked. It returns the investor, at the present
market-rate, 13 per cent., while the Extended returns 324
per cent. The Tunnel Co.’s cost for firewood amounts to
nearly £lO,OOO a year, or equal to £54 per horse-power,
yet it rejects Karlbaum’s electric scheme, whereby he
proposes to utilise the water of the Aberfeldy and Thomson
rivers to work all the mines and light the town, and offers
the motive-power at £24 per h.p.
* * * *
The difficulty of selling small parcels of gold at
a fair figure is one of the woes of far-out Vic. diggers.
In one district the writer knows of small parties who have
been selling for years at £3 10s. and £3 12s. 6d. an ounce,
and have just found out that the metal is worth £3 18s. fid.
of anybody’s money. Local storekeepers are usually the
offenders.
* * • *
The Tasmania: “ Crushing for the month,
4050 tons, 37110 z. ; average over 18dwt.; value, £13,916.
A mine of a million, and yet J. Bullion declined it last
year.
* * * *
Tas. divs. for August, £11,860. Mount Bischoff
pays another 7s. fid., or £3OOO.
* * * *
New Golden Gate, Tas.: 1460 tons for 9200 z.•
value, £3680. Not so bad, if it keeps on.
* * * *
The Tasmania G.M. Co.’s chlorination plant has
started to calcine pyrites, but, as they reckon on having
at least £20,000 worth of stuff on hand, the plant will no*'
overtake the back-work this century.
*** * *
Tasmania is just now over-run with a flock of
be-diamonded agents of syndicates from Germany and
elsewhere. As a consequence, every tail is being
scientifically twisted to make him howl bis whereabouts.
* * * *
The Angipena Treasure mine, floated by forty
S.A. legislators last year, is being wound up, and one
legislator who reported on it has gone to Westralia to
fulfil the duties of a mining expert.
* * * *
, Brilliant and St. George United, Charters
Towers— Bso tons, 12700 z.
* * * *
Gov. Norman, at a Queenslanders’ banquet iri
London : “ I may claim to be a Queenslander, inasmuch as
I possess bank shares in that colony, which I hope will
improve." Which for wild, riotous humor would be hard
to beat.
* * * *
An old-time Bulletin correspondent“ I have
travelled over 1300 miles since leaving the Central, visit-
ing the Cape, Towers, Percy, Finnigan’s Big Beef, George-
town-, Cumberland and, lastly, the new rush at Green-
hills, located about 24 miles N.W. of Georgetown and A
very likely place, tt is hard to form a correct estimate of
the gold got so far, but for sure there have been 4000 odd
ozs. accounted for. While I was there one specimen was
unearthed—ls6oz., which dollied 920 z. gold. There are
two classes of gold—waterworh slugs arid quartz speci-
mens, the gold being different value. It is scattered
over a mile square, and is got on the surface as
well as in the wash. The bottom is rotten granite,
the soil above red loam. There is no line to
go by, and, as a rule, the gullies contain little gold, the
heavy stuff being got on the rises, away from them. It is
the sort of a field on which, so far, newchums have done
better than old diggers. Some have done well, and others
average wages. The nearest permanent water is six miles
off (Gilbert Biver), but they have got water (shallow) by
sinking. They are called the spoonbill miners owing to
the custom of going about the surface turning over the
stones with a spoon-shaped piece of wood, ‘ slug-hunting.’
When the wet season comes there is bound to be a fair
rush there. There are any number of reefs showing a
little gold on the top, but, so far, none have been touched.
All the Etheridge fields, right to Georgetown, are dead to
the world, with the exception of ‘ Finnigan’s,’ The Cum-
berland and Durham are simply dead. The dogs bark at
you in the town when you arrive, and the goats seem to
have possession of most of the humpies. Croydon is the
most improved town I have seen (been away four years),
both as regards the mines and the district generally.
Business is sound, and the wild old drinking-days have
gone and given place to hard work. Many of the erstwhile
deserted outside camps have been manned and are carrying
a good population. Dozens of small shows are paying the
working-miner well that would not be looked at four years
ago ; and the average tributors are doing well. Many old
miners have returned from Westralia, Croydon being, in
their opinion, better for them.”
* » * *
Maoriland new Mining Bill proposes that the
State may resume auriferous freeholds, without compen-
sation for value of minerals.
* * * *
Auckland (M.L.) is fairly frenzied on mining —■
stimulated by reminiscences of the good old times of Hunt
and party who, after the erection of their small 12-head
battery, got no less than 25,0000 z. for six days’ work.
And then the Caledonian crowd beat them badly : for
their first 12 months the mine produced ten tom of gold,
and distributed to its shareholders £572,000 in divs.
* » * •
Priest-geologist Milne Curran declares that Aus-
tralian opals are invariably sold in London as Hungarian,
and Australian diamonds are re-dubbed Brazilian and
South African. “ Those blawsted lcawlinies, dontcher-
know.”
* * * *
Zeehanites (Tas.) are dead against Chinese, and
rose in revolt lately when a resident imported some to
grow vegetables for market. They held indignation
meetings and passed strong resolutions against John, and
also threatened to boycott their townsman. The Chinkies
left when they saw the storm raised, and subsequently a
motion was unanimously carried that their would-be in-
troducer and “ friend ” should leave with them. The
anti-Chinese feeling is as strong on the West Coast now as
in ’9l, when two luckless Celestials attempted a landing
and were thrown into the sea. Tas. miners remember the
East Coast and they are backed by others who had met
John in various parts of the globe. He is not wanted in
Zeehan—either as a “ cabbagee ” merchant or miner.
Which is unlucky for John as there are golden chances
for him in the West if he could but get his foot in.
* * * •
The kind of men some mining managers are :
“ They are the right men in the right place, splendid
miners; the only objection I have to them is they are
Roman Catholics.” This in reference to a party of con-
tractors working in a N.S.W. mine floated in London,
Quite English, you know !
A great, coarse, raw Geordie, wlio was having a
lot of stone crushed in a Gippsland battery, looked in to
collect, and was told that his gold had been seized under
a garnishee order. “ Garnishee! garnishee!” said Geordie.
“Aw dunno the blanlty blank; wha’s he?” A dapper
clerk was pointed out, and Geordie fell upon him, tooth-
and-nail. After beating his man, Geordie seized the
amalgam and made off, muttering : “ Garnishee, eh ! I'll
teech thee thoo [expression of endearment] to try an’
steal my gold.” The gentleman with the garnishee had
paid for the crushing before seizing. The law is now
hunting Geordie over a great maze of hills and creeks.
* * * *
Although the latest London Economist has two
or three pages of advts. from reconstructing breweries, it
cautions investors that legislation is at hand, affecting the
tied pubs., on which the profits rest. A whilom Melb.
brewer was reputed to have 100 under his thumb.
* * * *
At Perth. Lucky digger hands cheque to bank-
teller. Teller : “ How will you take it ? ” The lucky one;
“ Well, say fifty now, and call for the rest as I want it.”
* * * *
Ordinary sea-water contains half a grain to a
grain of gold to the ton, on which basis the ocean must
contain 75 thousand million tons of gold. What a chance
for a Westralian prospectus-monger !
* * * *
A new industry started in N.E. New Guinea is
sponge cultivation for the European market, a big lagoon
in the uninhabited Conflict group having been leased for
the purpose. The wild sponges already there are of good
type and readily saleable, but lessee Wickham is go inf in
for special cultivation with a view to greatly improving
the quality.
* * * *
At a recent inquest there was found in a man’s
lung a half-sov. he had swallowed 25 years back. Only
with difficulty could a Westralian syndicate be prevented
from placing the corpse on the British market as a splen-
did investment.
A WESTRALIAN TRIOLET.
How will you explain your lies
When the bubble’s burst?
When the shares refuse to rise
How will you explain your lies ?
When you hear the bankrupts’" cries
And are duly cursed.
How will you explain your lies
When the bubble’s burst ?


fdh
VVonderful Discovery!
R-OSEJ’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION .
r \ J: ot ' o,> ernes Swelling and Saudi/ Jllif/ht,
- Inflamed Eyes and I Ads, Dimness' of Sifjht.
\try beneficial to those who have J l eak lines, as it
strengthens the Sif/ht. By post, 3s. per bottle.
Manufactured Solely by |J. A. ItOSK. (Tn-mist
531 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
DURABILITY AND ECONOMY.
The Celebrated Orient Clothing 1
(lives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Cut from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS THOEOITGHLY
The ORI ENT CLOTHING is in
BUSINESS
OFFICE
PROMENADE
ALL TRXTURES, suita le for
RIDING
BUSH _
TRAVELLING
AND
S ZEE IR, U LsT IC
PICNICING
SPORT
EVENING WEAR.
FIRST QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 35/_
EXTRA QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 40/-
SFECIAL QUALITY MEN’S SUITS 45/-
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the colony
1’ urmshings excepted.
1 he Make and 1' inish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY,
(OPPOSITE G. P;0.)
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSj- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A nstraliu.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
. Dr. Gresswell, Chairman-
( ■ Melb. Health Board, says.:
Out and out Jeffery’s are the best filters.” The Pro-
fessor of Hygiene, Melb. University, says: "Ordinary
ft tots are powerless against germs so small as typhoid
yerms; use a JEFFERY FILTER.” The-
effery Filter principle is highly recommended by the
President N.S.W. Health Board. Write or call on J,
PEARDON, 4 Bond-street, SYDNEY ; or J. JEFFERY,.
39 Spring-st., MELBOURNE. Prices, 15s. Cd to £3.
typhoid
Society
COOLATA
CAMEO
Victoria and N.S. Wales,” said a ring-
leted old tuft-hunter during a lull in a recent
across-t 1i e - table conversation on Federal matters,
are m the best of all possible conditions for the
happy consummation of Australian Federation.”
A hen she added impressively: “ Mr. Freeman
Thomas is nephew of dear Lord Hampden, and
Mrs Ireeman Thomas is daughter of Victoria’s
Lord Lrassey. It’s quite providential.”
*** 1 *
‘ ‘ I don’t think I ever committed adultery.”
—Lady respondent , last week, in Melb. Divorce
Court.
* * * *
Relations between Tasmania and Victoria
are much strained. The Tassies threaten to send
a man-of-war to stop Vic. fishermen from catching
their barracoota, and the Victorians promise to
retaliate by sending the Cerberus to tow Vande-
moma bodily into Hobson’s Bay—and possibly
send it to London for exhibition round the coast
ala the Success convict-ship show. The Raspberry
TERMS OF ENDEARMENT.
SEA CAPTAIN (widower) : “ Can't I -persuade my pet to come
with me on my next trip? ”
WISE VIRGIN : “ No, my love—not unless you take me as
your second mate.”
crowd are ill-advised to quarrel witli the people
who keep their flyspeck alive during the tourist
season.
* * * *
That obj actionable democrat Lo wry is back
again in T nvnsville Municipal Council, scandal-
ising the other aldermen as fast as he can wheel a
truck on the wharf. The usual municipal con-
gratulations to Gov. Lamington’s baby were fol-
lowed by a motion from Lowry that King Billy,
of Fanning Downs, “a monarch in his own right,”
should be congratulated on Queen Mary Ann’s
new son. Ihe Mayor trembled on the verge of
apoplexy as he refused to put the motion, and de-
nounced this farce. ” But Lowry’s satire is well-
merited and just.
* * * *
Brisbane sassiety is charmed with the per-
formances of baby Lamington, aged three or four
weeks. That interesting infant was induced the
other day to sign a cheque for £2O (to the Sick
Emldren s Hospital) by affixing his mark thereto,
oassiety was enraptured and crowded round to
catch even a glimpse of the precious document.
Ain’t it sickenin’?”
* * * *
Just after a certain interesting event, some
newsboys went about yelling “Speshul ’dition;
remarkable presentation by Her Excellency.” In-
side the paper, a par. read, “ Early to-day Her
Excellency Lady presented the Governor
with a son and heir.”
t * * *
“ More Bash Justice ! ” writes “ Tim-
ganck to The Bulletin. A 70-year-old resi-
dent of a las. country district lately allowed his
taxes to fall into arrears of £4. The municipality
thereupon seized and sold his little plot and hut
tor that amount— the purchaser gathering £2-
worth of fruit from the garden. The old man
loudly ventilated his grievance and threatened
reprisals. He annoyed the, “powers,” so he was
haled up and charged with stealing a mattock,
tqu.nd ] 0 “is possession, which he proved had been
given him. I hen he was further charged with
vagrancy, though he had 7s. Od. in cash and a job
to go to, and sentenced to a'month’s gaol, with a
recommendation that quarters be afterwards found
lor him m a charitable institution !
* * * *
A Sydney man, the other day, was fined
Os., or seven days’gaol, for biting a policeman’s
thumb. Poor devil ! Have you ever considered
a policeman’s thumb? '
The snap-shot fiend haunts St.
Hilda (Melb.) Esplanade on Sunday
afternoons. Rough for the married
tnan who happens to have 'acquaint-
ances among girls, or friends of girls,
that appear improper to his wary
bride. Whilst he is being casually
introduced to a chorus Tottie, in a
rather flagrant hat, the pocket-camera
operator takes tin; group and subse-
quently offers copies of the picture to
Ins pals at twopence a piece. They
may chance to travel round until
Arammta comes across one, where-
upon she buys or begs the material
lot ‘. a> first-class outbreak of domestic
strife. Sometimes the camera meanly
goes out of its way to lie, by substi-
tuting the head of a pious house-
holder for that of an abandoned
Johnnie taken in the aet of squeezing’
some female form divine. This trick
is presumably criminal, and there-
toro risky. Nevertheless, a St. Hilda
promenader has to reckon it in among
the awful things which may happen
to him on the Day of Rest.' Every
married man should instruct his wife
iii the dark ways of snap-shot photo-
graphy, so that when she se'es him
depicted in a truthful group, he may
lie able to persuade her that lie was
the victim of a wicked substitution.
The chances are that he will not
persuade her, but he may as well
give himself a show to try it on with
some outside hope of success.
“ The unbridled impudence of
seme women cannot be imagined,”,
said a trader the other day.' “Not
.°ng ago a very well-known lady
entered our establishment and, ad-
dressing one of the shop-walkers, said ,
You if allow my dahghtfers to rest'
hoi-e awhile ?’. * Certainly, madame, ’
was the reply, and Mrs. Silk-and-
Satin drew out two chairs from the
counter, placed them'in the centre of!
the shop, and seated thereon her two
daughters, aged about 17 and lflj;
then she sailed magnificently out.
Her ladyship returned;in about ten
minutes’ time, asked the girls if they ‘
had rested, and, receiving an affirm-
ative, led the way out, neither of the
trio returning even a ‘thank you.’ We have
madame on our list against her next visit, I can
assure you.”
* * * *
Answers to co-respondents—Divorce de-
crees.
* * * *
Another Melbourne servant-girl has com-
mitted suicide all along of the fatal young man
who brings the milk. Romeo in this case’deposed
that he never quarrelled with his girl, but to a
rival milkman she imparted her determination tc
see Arthur no more, shortly after which the love-
lorn spinster swallowed a large dose of strychnine
-- in milk, probably. Strange, and yet not strange
this fascination exercised by milk-carriers upon
housemaids. It must be more or less attributable
to the early-morning visit, when their melodious
yodel arouses the girl from dreams of love and
brings her forth with the jug in a highly impres-
sionable mood. Beheld through the mists of early
morn and the vapor from heated fancies, Arthur
seems little less than a god. The fresh young
passion-flower is his, if he care to pluck it and
take it away in the five-gallon can.
* » * *
According to meenister Walker, N.S.
Wales is the only Australian province that has as
its Anglican Church head a man “ who treats the
other Churches as part of the Church of God.”
A recent fashion-
able marriage—was it in
Adelaide ?- — recalls an
interesting yarn now
almost forgotten in-
teresting because so few
allegedly-white families
have aboriginal blood
in their veins. Back
in the “ fifties ” a
youth, the son of a city
notability, was sent to
gain experience in the
woolly west, and as he
was firmly affianced to
a very pretty girl, no
matrimonial dangers
were anticipated (Louis
Becke’s descriptions of
the seductiveness of
brown women weren’t
there to enlighten care-
ful parents in those
days). But, of course,
lie fell in love, head-
first, with a black-gin,
though, when the time
was up, he gaily re-
turned to town to wed
his white love. But,
like the copper-colored
bride in “ Turned Up ”
who was at “ Tilbury
docks, with a scent like
a blood-hound,” the de-
serted Venus (in ebony)
followed her faithless,
swain to the metropolis.
Then there, was a novel
tableau which ended in
a marriage after all-
only the bride was
black. And now that
years have softened
down the family com-’
plexion people see the,
advantages of a thing,
like that. Aboriginal
blood probably wouldn’t
always make the pale-
face more intellectual,
bud it would most cer-
tainly soften his wiry
manners. The Austra-
lian dark man has a
charmingly soft style,
as a rule.
Lditor Baker, of, the Tweed; has been
released from gaol partly because some of the law-
Costs for which he_ had been attached were paid,
but partly, as Minister Gould admits, because a
change in the law re imprisonment for costs is
likely to be soon effected. This latter reason is
ca-pable of extensive application, A change in the
law regarding capital punishment is also very near
nV to 1 regard over * and are -
* ■° R y •*
The Bulletin hears of a Queensland pas-
tnrol Pinnlnvova t i i i•* 1 ,
SSS had /-"J ll * 6 “ a “ W^ k ‘
charged Is nor .ii™, T* '- J le , n him
side fifce, ‘say, 3s. 6d. per "
*f s f
A hundred and eighty feet is supposed to be
an immense height for the North Sydney Bridge ;
“ WITH HER OWN PETARD
S HE : “And am I the only girl you ever made love to?”
HE: "Certainly! And I suppose I am the only man who ever made
love to you!”
and anybody who talks of 200 feet is thought off
Ins head. Yet Brooklyn Bridge is 278 feet high
and with no greater cause for the elevation than
exists in the North Shore case.
* * * *
No winter night-shelters for the Sydney
houseless ones ? Yet there are empty churches
and unused stoves by the score.
* * * *
From the reply to a question in Parlia-
ment it appears that, within 12 months, 668
couples have been wedded by the Sydney matri-
monial agencies, where marriages are not
‘‘solemnised” but only “performed.” At the
institution known as the “ Ministers’Study ” 94
marriages had been celebrated by the Rev. Alfred
.Tames Clarke, Baptist minister, and 110 by the
Rev. Lorenzo Howard, Independent Baptist
minister. • 1 1 ' ■ -• ■ .
*** _ *
The Yic. J.P. again. At Prahran, the
other day, a gilded youth of Toorak was charged
with furious cycling and serious damage to a little
girl with whom he collided. Case dismissed,
“ The chairman said he had not met Mr. Inglis
before, but from what he knew of that young
gentleman’s family they would not let the child
J> e J h fu® f ? r p a gllded Cy i° llSt wh °f
family i& known to the J.P. can run down people
at hl s own discretion, provided his old man oom-
pensates them afterwards. And he isnt even
A SMALL OCCASION ;
THE SOBER ON E: “ Your birthday, hey? Rut surely that can’t be worth,
getting drunk over!”
compelled to compensate them.; the furious bikist
is simply discharged on the ground that the J.P.
thinks his family are the sort of people who will
probably offer the girl a few shillings, or pounds,
or tell her to go to blazes, or something. What
right has a J.P., in his official, capacity, to know
anybody’s family ? '
*, *. *
Apropos the bowelless persons who, while
in good positions, refuse to contribute to the sup-
port of their broken-down, parents in the Benovo
lent Asylums. In Denmark such refusal involves-
deprivation of all civil rights. Imagine the-
disgust of some gilded leech of the sort on.
suing for divorce, or libel damages, at finding him-
self unable to recover on the ground that he had!
contributed nothing to the support of his pauper-
mother.
One spectacled old'
lady, who loves to be in.
the swim, loyally at-
tended the late Sydney
memorial services cele-
brating- the mission-ves-
sel Duff cruise, under
the impression that she
was all the time assisting
at services commemora-
ting deceased Gov. Duff.
* * *
At a recent fashion-
able amateur concert,
eleven friends and rela-
tives of one of the
singers brought bou-
quets and baskets of
flowers to present to
the warbler. She_ was;
by far the worst singer-
of the lot, and the rest ,
got no flowers. It was-.
a good illustration of
the silliness of the hor-
ticultural method of ap-
plause. Originally flow-
ers were thrown to a
singer out of sheer spon-
taneity and enthusiastic;
admiration ; now, the
flowers are brought a-
long in cold blood, and
the singer gets them all.
the same, whether she-
warbles well or ill.
The Monier arch, which supports a lot of
the trouble of the current N.S. W. Works Dept, en-
quiry, is essentially a grid or network of light iron,
embedded in compo. or concrete. Its ultimate
strength, as ascertained by recent experiments
m Europe, is greater than that of any compo-
site arch of similar dimensions, but its invention
is comparatively so modern that., no life can be
assigned to it with any degree of certainty. It
depends for its initial strength upon the mutual
cohesion of two foreign substances ; and for its life
upon the absence of chemical change in either or
both, whereby the cohesion between them is re-
duced or destroyed, or their strength impaired,
qjuery, whether a Monier arch erected and tested
now would, at the end of next decade, survive a
similar test?
* * * *
'' The expensive Sydney railway extensions
scheme to.be submitted to N.S.W. Parliament 1 -
provides for a new railway station between Park
and .Bathurst streets, which is a little, but onlya<
little, better than the present site at Redfern.


CHARLEMONTS
• STUDIOS
492 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
.114 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT a,re now introducing
Platinotype Photographs in SEPIA TONE.
The effects obtained are most charming. Every-
one interested in what is artistic should see the
new work, on view at the rooms,
492 George Street, Sydney.
MATRIMONY.
Fyou wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult
us. Our varied and extensive clientele'enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stations of life. Local
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecy. All communications confidential. Information
sent free to bona-fide applications. Write for pamphlet
and rules.
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association.
57 PHILLIPS STREET, SYDNEY;
(Next Hotel Metropole), or Box 656, G.P.0., Sydney.
Time deals gently with the woman who
uses “Babeskin” soap. It softly removes the
tell-tale lines of the years, and renews the delicate
bloom of youth. One shilling packages of two
cakes. Washington H. Soul <fc Co., Pitt-street
and Parramatta.*
JAMES KIDMAN
BEGS TO INTIMATE THAT HE HAS
BEEN APPOINTED
*r SOLE AGENT IN N.S. WALES
'• - • —• FOB THE
VICTORIA LASER BIER, ..
(Pfaudler Vacuum System),
AND IS NOW IN A POSITION TO SUPPLY THE GENERAL PUBLIC AT
Bs. 9d. per Single Dozen Quarts; Bs. 6d. per Dozen by the Case,
SPECIAL RATES POE HOTELS.
KINDLY SEND FOR A CIRCULAR.
Then, in another generation or so, there will
probably be an agitation for a further extension to
King-street or thereabouts. The extension to
Park-street is a mere apology for a solution of the
difficulty. Why not tackle the whole problem at
once ?
* * * *
Odious comparisons—S.M. Herald advts.;
■DAKER’S IMPROVER
A > wanted, 15s. and found.
Also single Hand, country.
Apply 72 Castlereagh - st.,
Sydney.
JUNIOR CLERK, sal. £2(l,
’’ jun ior exams., shorthand
pref. Write, enclosing refs.,
Mr. Gibson,Equitable-build-
ings.
WANTED, Lady HELP,
’’ comfortable home, no
family, ten shillings month.
Alpha, Dulwich Hill P.O.
WANTED, smart Lad, as
Clerk, previous expe-
rience necessary. Mrs. Cox,
120 Strand.
-WANTED, Indian Cook,
’’ £l, station ; a 2nd
Baker and make smallgoods,
255. and keep, country ; an
Indian Laundryman, £l,
station ; a useful Youth, 7s.
WANTED, female Cook,
’’ and bake, 18s., meet
lady 12 o’clock sharp, real
good place ; C. and L., 205.,
station ; a Protestant Needle-
woman, 125., doctor’s place ;
Waitress, 12s.,country. Sim-
monds, 188 Castlereagh-st.
Junior exams., shorthand. Bah ! Learn to cook
and do laundry work.
* * * *
S.M. Herald advt. :
/"OFFICE BOY, or young- Lady, wages ss. week. Say
age, if shorthand or typewriter. City, Herald
Office.
The humor of this is that the advertiser actually
had the hardihood to ask applicants (so says a
Bulletin correspondent) if they could keep a set
of books!
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Melb. Guvmentouse women follow Lady
Brassey’s lead in sporting violet as a dominant
color. The Brassey crowd walk to church ; no
carriage on Sundays. Six days shalt thou ride on
bikes or in carriages, but on the seventh thou shalt
give thy corns a little exercise. New command-
ment.
* * * *
The long arm of coincidence. A four-year-
old lad named Herschell was last week admitted
to Roma (Q.) hospital with a broken thigh, caused
by a tree falling on him. At the same hour,
on the same day, a year previously, the boy’s
father met his death from an exactly similar
accident.
* * * *
The new telephone woman shapes well.
The other day a business man rang up. “Yes,
yes, are you there ? ” said the female attendant.
“ Put me on to 306,” said the gentleman. “ Any-
thing else?” said the female voice. “Nothing
else,” said the business man. “Oh, yes, there’s
something else ! ” said the female voice. “ No,
there isn’t,” said the business man with asperity,
“except hurry up. Put me on to 306.” “Oh,
yes, there is something else,” replied the female
voice—“you should have said, ‘ 306, please !’ ”
* * * *
The S.A. Govt, purposes applying the
Chinese Immigration Restriction Act 1888 to all
colored persons.
The ladies fair who dye their hair,
The painted “ little peach,”
Who wend their way towards S.A.,
Must know before they start that they
Can’t pass until they bleach.
* * *
Two Sydney women, sentenced last week
for robbery, were police-charactered as owning 157
previous convictions between them.
Says G. R. Sims :
“In the house of Commons
after a certain hour of the
night—or rather morning
—common-sense and so-
briety of action go by the
board, and ‘ nerves ’ alone
inspire and order the
words and deeds of the
physically- exhausted
members. An all-night
sitting is an outrage on
common - sense, which
ought never to be per-
mitted by an Assembly
supposed to make com-
mon-sense laws for the
protection and guidance of
common - sense people.”
What would the cockney
humorist have to say of
Judge Windeyer’s late sit-
tings in criminal law trials,
when human lives .de-
pended on the nerves of
physically-exhausted jury-
men?
Apropos, Judge Win-
deyer applied for more
leave, which Gould and co.
dared not grant. Were
there any sense of decency
in N.S.W. official-legal cir-
cles, Mr. Windeyer (who,
thank Heaven, has now
resigned) would have got
a cable, bluntly stating
that he could have 40 years’
)(eaye—without pay.
♦ * *
When the inevitable
Sydney Harbor ferry dis-
aster occurs, whether by
.collision or through the
breaking-down of some rot-
ten old tub in a beam sea,
the public will be fully in-
formed about the scanda-
lous hours (up to neai’ly <>
hundred a week !) worked
by the crews of some of
the ferry-boats.
Proposed to introduce linotypes into Vic.
Government Printing Office, and thus save
.£20,000 a year.
Brown, M.L.A., recently told m Q. Par-
liament that there were recently discharged from
a Northern hospital eight Malays, six Kanakas,
one Papuan, and one European ! Yet Nelson,
Tozer and Co. assert that the alien question in the
North is one of only trifling significance.
TOO BAD.
PARSON: “ You — never — heard — of—Wesley?"
COCKIE ( apologetically) : “ It’s this way, mister, the missus alius reads
the news, but she will skip the murder-cases! ”
Recently, in Melbourne, a furiously-driving
milkman collided with a “ scorching ” bicyclist.
The cyclist was taken to the hospital; his machine
was carried to an adjacent machine-store. The
cyclist is the Terror of the Street—until he meets
with a milk-cart driver.
A number of Melb. parsons, interviewed
on the subject of Sunday cycling, profess to find
in the pastime evidence that the generation is
renouncing God and going back on Christianity.
The popularity of Sunday runs is proof that the
million are renouncing the common or garden par-
son and going back on his special brew of Chris-
tianity, which is the same thing—to the poor
parson. The parsons make God in their own
image, and contempt of their little plate and their
tiny opinions is contempt of God. The people
who cycle run away from the plate, and this is
forsaking Christianity. Only a wheel-tax, the
proceeds to go to the churches, would reconcile the
parsons to the bicycle—the wheel of ill-fortune.
* * * *
Does the air of Victoria particularly dis-
courage the development of leprosy, or is the
inspection carried out with less stringency than on
the Sydney side? Prior to last week’s deporta-
tion 18 Chow and 14 white lepers were inmates of
N.S.W. Little Bay lazarette, while at the Sorrento
(Vic.) quarantine-station only four Chinese slowly
decay. A large discrepancy.
♦ * * *
The 11. C. authorities are fencing in Shell
Beach, at Manly, which beautiful spot should, of
course, have been a public reserve, but was unfor-
tunately handed over to the church by the Robert-
son Government. The fencing-in will probably
lead to further investigation of the church’s title.
While digging post-holes for fences a number of
aboriginal skeletons have been discovered at the
beach ; also, some wondrous schnapper-skulls.
* * * *
Several Melbourne publicans, alarmed at
the provision in Peacock’s Factories Act giving a
half-holiday to barmaids, are about to discard
their fair attractions and substitute barmen.
The utter futility of Queensland Govt.’s
anti-tick legislation is shown by the fact that ticks
are now actually numerous oil the islands of the
Eastern coast. Presumed they were carried
thither by birds, blacks and dingoes.
* * * *
N.S.W. Justice Simpson in divorce reads
anonymous letters; Chief Justice Darley in
divorce declines to do so. Here is an interesting
question, not only in judicial etiquette but in law
procedure: Which of these methods should Judges
be encouraged to adopt ? Simpson says that in
one case a miscarriage Of justice was prevented
through his giving audience to an anonymous in-
formant. Has justice ever been defeated' by the
adoption of the other formula ?'
THE PRINCE AND STEAD’S HYMNAL.
If there be truth in half the tales
We hear about the Prince of Wales
s Tis evident that he prefers
To “ helpful ” hymns, sir, helpless hers.
THE FIN-DE-CYCLE CHILD
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
At mother’s knee knelt little Dick,
His bed-time come, and all too quick;
Her hand caressed his flaxen hair
The while he lisped his nightly prayer.
“ God bless Mama, Papa and Ben,
And keep them safe, 0 Lord- i amen.’
Ilis praying done without mishap
Dick starts to climb his mother’s lap.
Mama reproved, “ You haven’t prayed
For Grandma’s safety.” All dismayed
Dick opened wide his eyes of blue,
“Shoo! What! Has Grandma got one too? ”
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on Mb.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Miner : There are some 500 stampers in the
Coolgardie district. About 50 are crushing ore : the rest
are crushing J. Bull D.F. : The Arena has a 1 ugh-
sounding name, hut it is hardly worth getting. 8.0.
Flower, who runs it, is the Yankee Stead, and Ins
fads are as lamentable as his logic H..D. •
Sketch unavailable Wanderer: To hand—.... St.
Vitus: The Bulletin’s authority was a note m
British Medical Journal of 7 Mar., _’9G, wmch
summarises an article by a Barcelona physician. The
note is on p. 40 of the “ epitome.” The treatment should
be carried out only by a qualified medical man, as in un-
skilled hands all forms of serum treatment have dangers.
Myee : Sydney D.T. boldly opens its front door for
Sunday advts. : S.M. Herald sanctimoniously shuts it,
and directs you to a back-door with a corkscrew staircase,
up which you go to find its clerk sitting' at the receipt of
customers. There is a back-door to every whited sepul-
chre N. 8.8. : “Poor attendance”; “twenty present”;
and soon. Dean is happier in gaol A.J. : Nonsense;
Mr. Jos. Symes’ letter was held over simply because
The Bulletin cannot get a quart into a pint-pot
David Ambrose: Y r es, that will do W.S.T. (Y.) :
Thanks A. M. Menson: Worn-out theme. The husband
isn’t to be sympathised with ; he advertised that he was
worth £3OOO, and he caught a wife ; she at once left him,
and he is now wriggling in his own trap Democrat :
Man from fell from horse and two doctors examined him
without finding that his shoulder was dislocated. Finally
the local storekeeper diagnosed the injury, and the
hospital warder reduced dislocation under choloform.
Two big pages North Shore : There may, as Dr. Arthur
says, be 10,000 (or 20,000) women seduced in N.S.W.
annually. You never can tell what the Social Purity
Society is capable of A. Orisworth : Germany is Eng-
land’s unsleeping enemy despite (and perhaps partly
because of) the reigning families’ connection A.O. :
“What is, after all, the utility of drawing from the
nude?” yells the Gimlet Brigade. Well, study from the
nude enables one to draw a man without making him like
a monkey, or a woman without perpetrating a wax-doll.
S.P.L. : Kind of imaginative puzzle—passed
G.F. : “Memories” looks good ; but, frankly, we can’t
read it. Re-write legibly and send again Rix : Sound
sense and had poetry Wurry : May use R. : No
value R. again : “ Waltz ” not quite enough novelty
or strength for space Jewduss: Doubt whether
we’re game to print it E.J.T. : “Why does Kingston
want to substitute affirmations for oaths?” Well, per-
haps because no one will believe an Adelaide man on
oath L.D. : Good verses, but please send name and
address to guarantee originality Esa Karos : May
illustrate......Wy : Will print “ Error.” 0.8. : Has not
every man who works or has a business in the country a
stake in it? Has not the unemployed pauper the biggest
stake of all in the country, for he cannot get out of it and
must be buried in it ?. Neuter G. : May serve as illus-
tration-text Yarrum : We laugh at the first hut
daren’t print it. As to the second, let-not the sins of the
children be visited on the parents—Chow fashion
Drover : Thanks J.M. : Summed up : you just get
value for what you pay. The lodge-doctor who gets 3d.
or Cd. a week from a family which rings him up now and
then at 2 a.m., spends 65sec. in examining Smith, who gets
no very serious attention until his feet grow so puffy that
he can’t pull his boots on. On the other hand, Jones, the
man who can pay one or two guineas, goes to the sort of
doctor whom other doctors call in when they themselves
are ill, and is thoroughly overhauled. Cheap medicine is
as bad as cheap teeth, and most people get both
Robt. G. (Es.) : The young lady has been well-advertised,
and apparently for no particular reason. Bulletin doesn’t
go much out of its way to help self-advertisers—they can
help themselves. It prefers to hunt up modest people.
A.O.Iv. : A very old case. Besides, the rule doesn’t
work all round. For instance, The Bulletin has never
heard that Vic. Civil Service Board censured Constable
Cornelius Crowe for compiling his slang dictionary
Tarbrush (Tas.): Name and address, please
J.T.D. : Thanks ; note posted John H.: English pros.,
like all other cricketers, play better sometimes than at
others. The idea that they can “come off” whenever they
want to is absurd. On the other hand, it is pretty certain
that they occasionally lose a game through playing to
make a close finish, in cases where they get “ tipped ” for
winning brilliantly The Ranter : Paltry—and looks
spiteful Abo: The man removed was an almost ideal
one for his position. Above all, he was a man of imagina-
tion and pity. He has been succeeded by a block of
wood. A well-meaning block of wood Dim : Larceny
as a bailee, but not larceny as a lawyer. The old, old
story W.D. : Try and get our all-Australian point of
view. If you live in Ipswich, write for Dunedin ; if in
Fremantle, for Georgetown. The utter disappearance of
an eastern township is of less importance to a western
man than his morning whisky H.O.G. : May use
Emilie : Packet of porcupine-spikes to hand. See a
schoolmaster at once Nora : Unusable Boree :
“Cats” declined G.H. : Bit too technical Query:
“ Meaning of Uloola?” Perhaps some aboriginal-expert
will oblige J.G. : One verse of your Second-Advent
poem ventured :
“ If ee sed let tlie little ones kome unto me
Ow each mother wood turn up her nose !
An ow quickly they’d hurry the youngsters awa,>
For fear that ee’d soil their best clothes.”
S. : “Give cheek, hut don’t stand it,” is a good work-
ing philosophy. The rest, for publication-purposes, is
chaff Rivulet: Ideas; expression too stiff Dublin
J. : Sorry ; but it’s an old story. This paper can only
make a living on new stories—or look-like-new stories....!.
C.C. : Perhaps Fox: Flat Rata: Small, ordinary
motive treated in a small, ordinary way Wurry : Not
usable Tempo : Thoughts too detached for print. But
we like your notion that drink is mankind’s pneumatic
tyre P. : (1) “Dago” not bright. (2) Depends on indi-
vidual merit Z.: Pipe-rhymes must he good to pass
Wake: Note posted Indian Ink: Not strong enough
for direct reproduction but will serve as suggestion. Memo
posted Aratapu : The Bulletin has been removing to
a new office, and the cribbage-expert has been lost in the
confusion M.T.H. (Pambula) : But then the average
newspaper doesn’t “tell men they should be free.”...'
Bathurst: Well? Harold T. H. : “London” will find
them. They are notorious enough Frank : You are
more than frank. You are beastly Paroo : The Bul-
letin doesn’t say you are a liar, but you would make a
first-class gas-meter Invicta : What’s the matter with
the “ subsidised mail-boats,” to begin with ? Are not the
mail-boats (especially French and German ones) subsi-
dised ? The brightest part of your letter is where you
say The Bulletin bolsters up Protection with “ lies and
idiocy.” That sort of thing is refreshing. It makes us
feel better. Please howl again The Champion of the
Track : Agonising hunk of “ blow.” L.R.M. : Sub-
mitted to artist W.li. : “ Tim ” not up
Mont. B.: Some imagination ; too crude A.N. (W.A.):
The mother-in-law jest is stale ; hut you’d better read
Bret Harte’s parody on “ Jane Eyre,” in “ Condensed
Novels,” before feeling affronted at such a slight “ slight
to Rochester.” A.W.S.: Can’t lay hands on “ Jones” at
present J.F.M.: “ Widow ” doesn’t impress as real
V.Z. :No value C. O’D. : Dull Finlay: Ditto
J.P. : If we printed your screed the mob would come
down with a whoosh and wreck the office N. 8.8. : To
hand A. Sharp : Unluckily, the average “reconstruct”
can’t afford to show much mercy to its creditors just now.
The dodge panned out so badly that it merely pledged the
institutions to pay 44 per cent, for money which is now
only worth 31- or less, and the situation in some cases is
too painful for description.


Arc Yo(i AfyxiotiS
To know where the best and choicest
display of novelties in Spring Dress
Fabrics, Costumes, Millinery, Gloves,
and Sunshades is to be seen ? Are you
anxious to know where you can obtain
the best value for your money ?
YES ?
Then pay a visit to
W. T. WATERS &. CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumieres and Milliners,
GEORGE & KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Abdul the Damned,” of Turkey, has had
a, narrow shave. Had the Armenians blown the
Imperial Ottoman Bank sky-high, nothing could
have saved him, for the fury of Bull and Crapaud
when smashed across the specie is a thing hideous
to hear of ; and the 1.0.8. is built on foundations
of English and French “ stuff.”
There are in Western Queensland 412
artesian bores with an average depth of 11851. feet
or an aggregate of miles. The total output is
210 million gallons daily. On the Saxby recently
a bore which had only occupied a fortnight in
sinking yielded two millions gallons daily. Ob-
servations on the Winton bore show that the pres-
sure of water is several pounds per sq. inch less
between midnight and sunrise than at any other
tune in the 24 hours. Artesian boring presents
quite a number of interesting scientific problems.
The sanitary arrangements in The Bulle-
tin new office at 214 George-st,, Sydney, were
supplied and fitted by the Sydney branch (335 Pitt-
st.) of the well-known London firm, Messrs. John
Tylor and Sons, Sanitary and Hydraulic Engineers.
This firm is the first of its kind in point of reputa-
tion, and the oldest as well, having been estab-
lished in the name of Tylor close on two centuries.
The London manufactory employs about 1300
workmen. The Australian branches charge prices
so low that the firm is placed in advance of all
competitors ; these prices are London prices with
only the cost of carriage added. And as the local
houses get large shipments at a time, carriage cost
is minimised, and the local customer can therefore
buy cheaper on the spot than he can by sending all
the way to London and waiting for the arrival of
his order. The local house, too, keeps right
abreast of the times, and has always the latest
designs on hand and the newest contrivances of its
London architects.*
Gentlemen : —lf you are unablo to get
exactly what you require in your own district,
write us and get our prices of goods free to your
door. Hordern Brothers, Tailors, Mercers,
Government Contractors, Carpet Warehousemen,
etc., etc. Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street
(only), Sydney.*
Now that the summer months are coming
on the advantages of a Eureka gas-cooker, as com-
P®” with the common fireplace or stove or other
red-hot curse, become very apparent. It can be
lighted just one second before it is wanted and
turned out one second after the cooking is finished,
whereas the ordinary implement has to Jbe slowly
brought up to a red-heat and slowly cools down
again afterwards, and keeps the kitchen all the
time like Nebuchadnezzar’s furnace. The heat of
the gas-cooker can be regulated to a nicety,
whereas no one can .regulate the coal fire. It takes
just one second and one match to kindle instead of
. lm,| utes and a whole bushel of profanity. There
is no wood to chop or coal to be laboriously
flumped in, and the concern can be bought cheaply
on easy terms at the Gas Co.’s premises, Hay-
market, bydney, where instructions are thrown in
and lectures on cookery given free every Wednes-
day afternoon at 2.30.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK*
Her Majesty’s * “ True as Steel.”
i)\ C . l:C,,t “School for Scandal.”
1 ■ AL “ The Prodigal Daugh-
„ „ ter.”
I| ' oLl Rickards’ Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ a Trip to Chinatown.”
it o\ al “ Romany Rye. ”
Opera House.. Rickards’ Variety Co.
ATHEX.EUM Hali, Rev. Chas. Clarke.
I'he fact, that there is not, after all, very
much in “ Camille ’ was seriously borne in upon
the patrons of Sydney Lyceum on Saturday
night. Itis a story of how a woman and a man
gradually came to love each other in Acts I. and
1 1. ; how they were separated by the remon-
strances of his heavy father in Act 111., and how
the woman died, very much after the manner of
Little Eva, in Act V . There is information to
the effect that the woman had led a life of gilded
sin, and owed her jewels and her furniture and her
Hocks to the fact that her golden hair was
formerly suspended down her back, but this fact
is made as unobtrusive as possible. Barring the
dramatic riot in Act IV., when the good man and
the bad one meet in the lordly halls of sin, the
story is mainly the long, sad, dragged-out pro-
cession of one woman gradually dying of her own
reformation. It is a picturesque tragedy provided
that single pathetic figure is played by a consum-
mate actress, but, unfortunately, Mrs. Potter,
though she shows to much more advantage than
usual, is not consummate enough by a long way.
It is a romance of the soul—the pessimistic,
evening-dress soul with wormwood m it; and
either Mrs. Potter or The Bulletin, or both of
them, lack the right kind of soul. Also, there is
so' much waiting for the tragedy; the falling
heroine goes down so slowly with so very little in-
cideht in her fall, and hangs on to so many depres-
sing circumstances in her descent, and the
end is so long in coming, that “ Camille ”
grows wearisome. Dumas’ play is a fine word-
picture and a beautifully dressed woe that stops
continually to let the heroine reveal her soul, and
if she hasn’t enough soul to fill the stoppage
Mrs. Potter is less affected and less arti-
ficial than usual, but her utter want of elocutionary
ability and her want of many other things besides
arc against her. Still there is a fascination about
her Camille. The pieces of it arc mostly bad, but
the whole thing has a certain, or rather an uncer-
tain, beauty which flickers out here and there
quite unaccountably. Bellew’s lower is a good,
nicely-finished rendering of the part, but there is
nothing in it to justify Kyrle in coming such a
long distance to do it; if he had come about one-
third of the distance the proceeding might have
seemed a lot more reasonable. The Count de
■ arville, as done by Scot Inglis, is the strongest
and most notable piece of work in the play. These
are practically all the people who are in “ Camille ”;
a number of other people are partly in it, but in
the main it is a harrowing tale of two men and
one woman. ‘‘ School for Scandal ” will be on by
the time these high-toned remarks appear in print,
and that play is worth ten of ‘‘ Camille ” and a
little over,
I SK- *
Mr. Hodson’s co., at Her Majesty’s, is
faking a turn at “ True as Steel,” the drama with
tlie big steam-hammer in it, and that consistent
implement is working well and giving pleasure to
all. The drama is a kind of poor relation to the
“ Silver King ”; in each case the wanted indivi-
dual comes back after making a stupendous pile in
foreign parts, and disguises himself elaborately as
a deaf fossil around his old haunts in order to pick
up information that will tend to clear his charac-
ter,_ and at the critical moment both men tear off
their hair and whoop. But the present drama
does all these things in, a rather inartistic fashion,
and its chief dependence is on the big foundry
scene and the realistic steam-hammer which comes
down with a mighty wallop on nothing in particu-
lar. The. hammer’s apparent mission in life is to
descend on the head of Mr. Willard, the oppres-
sively good young man of the play, and' when that
person escapes his just fate there is no further
reason for its existence. Still, it may come down
the s P°t where it is most wanted before
' True as Steel ” departs to the place where it
ought to, have been all along, and there is still
hope. A lot of the popularity of the drama
depends on a young man who undresses himself on
the stage, and a lot more on a consumptive woman
who dies under harrowing circumstances in Act 1,,
and a very fat and ruinous comic drunk also helps
things along. The result of their labors is not
very definite, but they keep up a cheerful buzz of
incident while they last, and do a great deal of
irrelevant rushing at nowhere in particular, and
much hard drinking and amusing policeman keep
things moving.
* * * *
Charles Holloway has improved a little on
fiis last performance, and the curse which this
paper pronounced upon him is partly lifted, and
he is hereby released under the Hardened Offenders’
Act. Nobody else towers high enough above the
rest to present a specially good target for the brick
of deserved reproach. Miss Eugenie Duggan’s
ilewess is rather a pretty piece of work, and In-
man s villain is exactly like many other villains he
has done of late. The big mill-wheel is probably
the most novel performer in the co., and the
steam-hammer is a good second, and between these
fwo the drama will probably boom exceedingly
till further notice. If it had boomed much more
exceedingly than it did on the opening night, the
gallery would almost certainly have fallen in under
the burden of much excited meat, and there would
have been a copious inquest.
** * *
The long-deserted Criterion will boom
again on and after 12th September, when the
Brough Comedy Co. opens at its old stand. The
first production is “ A Mother of Three,” a farce
wmch has prospered immensely in London and
elsewhere ; and a number of other new pieces are
promised.
* *- m
To-night (Thursday) and Saturday are the
last concerts of the Musin season at Sydney Cen-
tenary Hall. The verdict of the city is,'as on
last occasion, that Ovide M. is the most
charming of fiddlers. His strong point is
not m the large, robust kind of performance; he
isn t a constant stream of dazzle and fireworks,
but there is grace and melody and refinement in
Ins performances, and he is a restful person in
some of his moods, and, also, he doesn’t look as if
he owned quite all the earth. Possibly hemay decide
to farewell a little more, or may be induced, with
great difficulty, to reappear for one more week -
they mostly are—but, at present, this is his very
last week -if lie doesn’t give way to extreme pres-
sure, or something.
** * *
Bland Holt is due at Sydney Royal on
Saturday with “The Prodigal Daughter.”
* *■ * *
Sydney Tivoli is doing as well as usual,
with the assistance of John Coleman and Miss
Alice Leainar, who are both appearing for six
nights only. Also, the Music Hall has re-opened
under some more new management, and is making
another fitful struggle against fate and various
other things.
«* * *
“A Trip to Chinatown” came to Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday, and was received
with hysterical manifestations of delight. The
house, having made up its mind to laugh at every-
thing, laughed loudest at the things which, in
former times, might have passed away amidst a
solemn hush. The Bulletin didn’t join heartily
in the general glee when “ A Trip to Chinatown'”
was first produced in Sydney, and now that
another stamp of popular approval is imprinted
on the baby brow of “Mr. Chas. Hoyt’s amusing
musical farce-comedy,” this journal remains ob-
durate as ever.
* * * *
“A Trip to Chinatown” is a weak little
yarn with a number of poor little songs in it. The
chief musical item, judging from the programme,
deals with Harry Conor’s Experience in the
Bowery, and the tune of this well - sun"
and really funny dirty hasn’t been new
since the sisters Leamar sang “The Harem”
long years ago. A graceful contortionist,
Miss Bessie Clayton, appears to be the only dancer
worth mentioning in the company; anyway, Miss
Bessie’s one dance is much talked about during the
J.j hours previous to her doing the deed. Frank
Lawton, the gentleman who whistles wonderfully,
might as well get led up to in a like manner. His
whistling deserves quite as many preliminary puffs
as i the lady’s back-kicking, and seeing that the
whistle and the back-kick are the two uncommon
features of the entertainment, it is had policy to
puff one without the other. Another rash device
is the printing of plain “Patrice” upon the bill,
as though the small young lady in boy’s clothes
were specially important, What has Patrice done
that she should dispense with a prefix and divest
herself of a surname ?
* * * *
“A Trip to Chinatown” is run by 13
people, all told, and the majority of them don’t
tell mucli. Even chief humorist Conor fails to
explain the appearance of his name ip large type,
although lie very frequently conveys the idea
that he could knock considerable humor out of a
brighter character-part. There isn’t any snappy
singing talent among Hoyt’s comedians. Two
male members of the co., a pair of plump twins
seemingly, can warble a little in a strictly serious
strain, but when they wish to be funny they drop
into the ancient groove of mock Italian opera.
As a variety show, “A Trip to Chinatown”
will not stand much calm reflection. A num-
ber of points which memory would fain hang
on to. are not there, and with the finale
to. each act comes a strange sense of something
wanting m the background— viz. , a chorus. But
why argue agin a huge success ? The show
isn t a first-class joke, or a stylish piece of
frivolity, or a handsome spectacle, nevertheless it
must have the secret of success in its mechanism.
The stage business is carefully constructed, the
action rapid, and the thirteen characters work
together with an easy confidence that disarms sus-
picion. They will probably fill the Princess’s
until further notice.
** * *
Carl Hertz’s kinetoscopical views on the
sheet are about to leave the Opera House. The
pictures are probably inferior specimens, or Hertz
needs more practice in producing them, but their
faults don t count beside the great fact that Aus-
tralia has never seen anything so wonderful on any
previous sheet. Unhappily the kinetoscope inven-
tion is bound to be utilised for loyalty purposes
anon. The sheet of the future will display a faith-
ful representation of the bald-headed King Albert
Edward moving his lips in prayer for the welfare
of this distant land, whilst an assistant phono-
graph pours forth the words from a funnel.
** * *
“Romany Rye ” goes with increasing vigor
at _Melb. Royal, and the Nemesis which always
waits upon the wicked half-brother in the glossy
hat will possibly give him beans for yet another
week. Just here The Bulletin protests against
the infantile behavior of the half-brother at a
great moment. George Rignold has just rescued
his damp Gertie from the rolling deep, and is re-
ceiving homage from an excited fishing-village,
when the baffled owner of the bell-topper orders
a policeman to seize them on a charge of stealing
a pocket-book. It is such a ridiculously small
order under the circumstances that the manage-
ment would do well to cancel the line and let the
gentleman be removed in silence. Everybody
knows that the played-out intriguer has got to go
two minutes before the curtain falls, therefore
why not arrest him without comment when the
electric-bell rings ? “Romany Rye” is a strong-
minded melodrama except as regards the pocket-
book incident, and the realism of its marine
scenery made a visible impression on Gov. Brassey
when that nautical personage went to see.
* * -* *
Revd. Chas. Clark finishes a boomsonie
farewell season at Melb. Athemeurn Hall on Satur-
day next, after which lie will take his memory,
voice, elocution, also personal appearance, brains’
and long experience of what is required, away to
Ballarat and other cities.
*# # *
Nat. Goodwin finished up his Melbourne
innings by pleading his ’Murkan accent as a reason
why the public liad been so unenthusiastic. It
wasn t clear whether Nat intended this for simple
truth or bitter satire, and, in any case, it was a
waste-of. speech. He and the co. in general were
most appreciated in pieces where their accent
served as local coloring and helped the show
along. The a very American adapta-
tion trom the T rench, is an improvement on the
utterly impossible English version. “In Miz-
zoura ” couldn’t be made Hinglish anyhow, yet it
was unanimously voted the best all-round effort of
the season.
** * *
Gov. and Lady Brassey have encouraged
Geo. Rignold’s campaign at Melb. Royal with a
vice-regal night for each of his melodramas. It
was difficult to drag the Hopetouns to a melo-
drama.
m z; sc- sc-
The interest in the Brough Comedy Co. in
N. Queensland amounted to a craze. Beginning
the tour in Rockhampton, packed houses were
played to for the entire season of six nights ; to
meet the cries for more reserved places, it was
found necessary to abolish the pit and substitute
for it 400 chairs at 3s. each, the other prices of
admission being raised in proportion—2l6o seats
were booked for the six nights before the eo. even
reached the town ! The company’s success has
added a new province to the domains of the Aus-
tralian showman.
At Poverty Point.
News of circus-man Wirth’s death conies by private
letter from Japan. Just starting for China, he had a sun-
stroke, was carried back to his hotel, and died in two
days. Poor Mrs. Wirth received letters from her husband
asking her to prepare for his settling down in Australia.
With the same mail came a black-bordered missive which
she read last. It was from Wirth’s friends conveying
news of his death.
The Vic. Ministers turned up at Rickards’ show in Melb.
Opera House last week—Premier Turner for the first
time. The hard-working Peacock and Turner seemed
to enjoy the fun most; the stolid Attorney-General
Isaacs was apparently counting the shekels in the
house. Peacock’s famous laugh kept the audience in a
roar, sent a girl into hysterics, and at one time promised
to wreck the show. However, it might pay Rickards to
get the Chief Seo. there every night as claque. His yells
of delight at the mossy mother-in-law and wife’s-cold-feet-
in-bed jokes made all the married men look grim and
envious.
There seems to be some truth in the story that the Melb.
Goyernrnent-’ouse party’ frowned, or at any rate didn’t
smile, upon the later concerts of a visiting vocalist, for
reasons that needn’t be mentioned. And the “star’s”
haughty demeanor towards her colleagues wouldn’t tend
to soften sassiety prejudices.
Apropos Blanche Walsh’s Romeo. Charlotte Cushman’s
was the great one. Eloise Juno acted it pretty well.
The mother of the Rignolds was a fine Romeo and good
Hamlet.
He and She, the personages in the little piece just acted
b.y Maxine and Goodwin, are about tbe simplest
named on record,
Haresfoot: “Wouldn't it pay to abolish the Melb,
Theatre Royal bars ? What a disadvantage, compared to
the 1 nncess s, for all patrons, save the dress circleis, to
have to pass between a double row of bars ! All very well
in the nugget.v era, when even ‘the saddling paddock’
was tolerated, till knocked on the head by the Vagabond.”
A certain “society ” actor is known to the sta«-e hands
by the blasphemous name of “ Mr. God.”
A Melb. agony by night is the woman with a baby in
her arms and singing “ Ben Bolt.”
Miss Maxine Elliott, Nat Goodwin’s imported loveliness
interviewed in Melb., says she has met most of the cele-
brated stage beauties, Ada Rehan, Mrs. Langtrv Mary
Anderson, and so on, but they all “ prefer to talk of their
a rather than of their beauty. In most cases, it seems
to Tub Bulletin, their beauty and their art are one and
the same thing. As a rule, if the stage beauty had to get
her living by her brains, instead of by showing herself in
evening-dress, she would have a hard time,
There is a melodramatic canon which ordains that only
the villain (and the comic man) shall say “ Damn ! ” The
hero never .says, anything worse than “ Confound!” When
he is very much annoyed he grits his teeth and exclaims,
m . But he is too good to swear, as a rule. There is
room for a play in which the hero (Baker, for preference)
should throw his soul into some good, manly blasphemy
when the villain, for instance, steals the title-deeds of the
estate, or accuses the hero of murdering his grandfather
Even the adventuress (vide a recent Sydney production!
can now say “Damn!” when she feels like it, but the poor
hero is left without any natural outlet for his feelings.
“ The Beautiful Jessica,” Rickards’ latest, is a plumn
young person of most, generous proportions, who cavorts
upon a slack wire in light South Sea summer goods, sun--
gestmg the idea that the luxurious Jessica is in advance
of Macdonald, the bare-backed Scotchman who is coming
to Australia to preach the gospel of nudity. Jessica’s
performance is a matter of no importance whatever, ex-
cepting as a mild excuse for introducing the bouncing
and buxom young person in a many-colored costume that
terminates suddenly and unexpectedly and leaves a large
quantity of back and bust open to favorable criticism
This charming spectacular effect is married to O’Gorman
of Tennyson and O’Gorman. ‘ ’
«n W< J Press , s< r? ts reserve d for a certain daily have
a hL? ed S j V i C 'i a tlme ® of Bate by the youthful, critic and
a disengaged lady member of one or other co. that he mav
be reporting on, or about to report upon. This doesn’t
seem calculated to strengthen public faith in the genuine-
Pf® 8 °f P ress ,J ara \ An artless young man sunning himself
in an actress s smile, and imbibing her sentiments re her
the enelmes ’ ls a ver V droll entertainment, under
• I) " nn «' the ® ta y.°? the octogenarian pianist, de Kontski
in Brisbane, he visited the Catholic Convent to give a
pianoforte recital for the benefit of the Sisters. The latter
desmed that some of the elder scholars should also hear
him, but the ancient would have none of that. “ I blav
vor de seesters,” said he, “ not vor de girls: if de «irls
vant to hear me blay, dey gan gome to de goncert.” °
Geo. Leopold, with a lucky streak, might have been
Harry Conor.
Downes, a colored man, has a good part in the new
London Gaiety piece. Hope for Pope and Sayles. But
Sayles says he ain’t colored. Born so.
Tbepai'ifully superior musical criticisms published bv
Melb. Erald are written by a barrister, who knows a
good deal about music and thinks he knows a good deal
more. _ The sort of person who thinks in allegro and talks
m senn-tones and puts on beautiful airs.
cJf 6 <?°-> on „dieir way south, re-open at Brisbane
Sept. 4. On Sept 7 they produce, for the first time
yl y ;r he J ar - ( Ka comedy, “A Mother of Three,” in
which Miss Winifred Austin, well-known in Sydney society
andmnateur-theatrica, circles, will make her professional
. Hol ' ace . Stevens, the youthful baritone who won a shy-
ing scholarship at Melb. Conssrvatorium of Music, has
much to Marshall Hall’s regret, abandoned liis course of
study and gone back to dentistry-practice with his father.
There w'l soon be enough warbling talent among Melb.
tooth-doctors to form a concert-company. E L Oldfield
Ernest Fitts and young Stevens are three fine voices, and
&d'Kbe«“a“iS “
jss sasr '■ *" *
Dear Bulletin,— You mention that the beefy Belgian
organist Wiegand on his way to Europe, had shrugged
his fat shoulders at Australian composers whose composi-
t'ons he had played, when questioned as to their value by
an Adelaide scribe. But even such a wide s-hrug as the
Belgian musical Falstaff’s is nothing to the comprehensive
and all-embracing gesture which would be exhibited were
the same scribe to ask the opinion of any comnetent
musical critic on Wiegand’s compositions. This fortunate
monopolist usually devotes his slow, drowsy intellect to
fanfares, storm-effects, and other musical ear-tickl'n4
fantasias on Italian “scream” opera, stale when' our
grandmothers were learning their scales ; and the spo s
of the world s musical rag-bag. These elephantine tours
de-force don’t give him the right to criticise Australian
hhn hi S reti’irn th Wp S ,° nieone havin * the riffht to criticise
111 * e . tu ‘ n ’ We have no great names of native com-
Vk tIS tr u Ue l ufc nia y be attributed to the fact
that those who have talent that way are not dead, or not
good advertisers. But we have reason to be proud of
men like Moore, a native of Ballarat, now a professor at
the Royal College of Music, London, and whose con,posi
tions for the pianoforte were introduced to us bv Mark
These pianoforte compositions are played bv
all the greatest executants in Europe, and Tetzitetzkv of
Vienna, the leader of the modern pianoforte school
teacher of Paderewsky ; Hambourg, &c., recommends
them to all his pupils. Hill, of Maoriland, is quite well-
known in Germany by his compositions, and especially by
hls vlol , in ., compositions during his stay at Leipzig Tru
nan, of Sydney, is to Wiegand as a ray of suKt to a
tallow-dip. Our own “Jack” Delaney, the distinguished
composer of masses and church-music, simply over
shadows this lucky Flemish purveyor of musical frippery
to aldermen, who has the impertinence to shrew his
A well-known and popular Australian actor is great at
relating anecdotes in a deep bass voice ; he relates then
{ b n es h a / te *;, 1 a - nl -> u 'ith a glass in one hand and a higcS
in the other. Also he can spread a glamor round the
commonest incident and make it sound like a poem The
following needs to be read in a voice like a fog-horn • “T
returned home-hmmn-at 4 a.lll. I was-ahem-some-
nhat exhilarated—l may say exhilarated. Will you have
some more whisky? I did not desire to present myself
before the family in that-ahem -reprehensiblecondition
i- 1 i v ld , C< f 0 , fo, ' th on mv bicycle. Try some more
n 6 "* t 0 tUe apartment wherein the implement
was habitually incarcerated and carried it out-cam'ed it
you observe. As a matter of fact -ahem -the implement
(■leaked disgracefully, and I did not wish to arouse the
mattei^off*^ 6 mE i t 0 cx P lanations "’liich might be, as a
inattu of fact, embarrassing. We were alone. Picture
T w en l 6 -' v a ' Kl T 1116 ° Ut to ‘" ether a sleeping citv
went ten fi* 8 1 a ?c?nded on to the implement. ‘l
attain m7thpr n t rP i oS3lblytWe ' ltyyai ’ rts; 4is impossible to
attain mathematical accuracy m matters of -ahem—men-
suration. Don _t be afraid of the whisky ! Ring the bell for
nwoßif o " ' Havin f covered the aforementioned arealfound
myself unaccountably standing on my head. I used cer-
tain—ahem—blasphemous vocabulary at the implement
I again ascended the implement and fell off frequently i
may sav l telfoff ? r r f ate ° V T eOm -i P ressLs"Zt i
lmy say.l fell off frequently.- As a matter of fact, I fell
off continuously. Finally, I used a quantity of nefarious
lonversatmn and started to lead the implement home
Haie some more whisky. We were still alone; picture
me and the implement returning discomfited through a
sleeping city. Dreadful thing this indigestion ! i re-
tuined the implement to the room wherein it habitually
led its unobtrusive existence, and retired secretly to mv
ow n apartment. Kindly touch the bell for some\vhisky
felf tn yol ' ob serve-I betook my-
the w ° vvherei . n the machine was secluded from
the busy throng, and discovered that I had forgotten to
blow up the tyre. Since then I may say that I have not
ascended on to the implement. I believe that biqyclino-
is not, regarded as a pursuit, worthy of the artificial
elevation to which it has been raised by the plaudits of
tle unthinking multitude. Have some more whisky.”
Sa '' e d froni the Sea,” at Brisbane, Elizabeth Watson,
fc , h , e J leroine > a poor fisherman’s
wife, wore high-heeled buckled tan shoes.
“ Melba flings her notes over us like a shower of pearls ”
—London World. 1
Haresfoot : •< Maxine Elliot ought to have starred in
Melb., for a beauty boom was just on the crest of the
wave.
Geraldine Ulmar would suit the Firm.
“ Mrs. Potter is all joints and genius.”— Amur.
When the Great Wheel, in London, stopped and im-
prisoned its passengers 150 ft. above ground for 16 hours
cue of the messages sent down notified a marriage engace-
Yarn about Gus Harris. Came in at rehearsal with the
familiar gusty and blustery style, and asked “Why can’t
those chaps drill like soldiers ” ? Stage-manager whis-
pers : “ They’re Coldstream Guards.”
mordent Shakespeareans are generally unpractical
The seals at Melbourne Aquarium are suffering from
tuberculosis, and several have died from the disease.
I sat in the front-row and watched her,
So I did.
By Jove, she was simply divine,
So she was.
I vowed that naught should deter me
From making - that fair creature mine ;
So I did 1
She danced, and laughed, and cavorted,
So she did,
Then skipped round the stage in a whirl,
So she did,
Till mj r heart was completely distorted
By love for that beautiful girl,
So it was !
I wrote and confessed of my passion,
So I did ;
Ay, confessed to that rising young star,
So I did ;
But her answer came back in this fashion :
“Rats ! I once went to school with your ma."
And she did !


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 17&-
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest, buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal, direct tv
him. The firm has a reputation for straight dea>
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which n
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also u
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
CaledonianLiqueurWhislo
fd
J H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Photographic Stock Dealers,
116 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MAGIC, OPTICAL and DISSOLVING VIEW LANTERNS
and SLIDES. LIMELIGHT APPARATUS, ETC.
The New Pocket Kodak, price 21s.
SPOOLS OF FILM for 12 EXPOSURES, 1/6 Each.
Films Developed and Printed. Send for Price Liss.
IRA or
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the Worlfl.
W. BALCHIX, Agent, SYDNEI
Personal Items.
The N.S.W. Ministry—Waist and Want.
Lord Brassey’s experimental farm in W.A.
is having another rest. Operations ceased a week
or two ago.
Westralian Chief Justice Onslow is a
grandson of Mr. Alex. Macleay, F.R.S., Speaker
of the first N.S.W. Leg. Council.
The Yic. Labor members speak rather
bitterly of Trenwith for neglecting to write to old
friends who put him in the way of tripping to
England.
A USEFUL DOG.
(A Little Bourke-street item.)
BILLY THE BOY: “ What yer call that dog, Spike—
a terrier? ”
SPIKE: “No, he’s a spotter.”
BILLY: “ A what-er? ”
SPIKE: “ A spotter. He keeps a sharp look-out on
my blind side, and when he spots a cop. he
gives me the office.”
The candidates for the Australian seat on
Privy Council B neh so far include one Anglican,
one Congregationalist, one Atheist, and one Spiri-
tualist.
Objections to C. A. Goodchap as N.S.W.
Protectionist leader : First, he’s a pensioner, and,
second, he writes worse verse than even Parkes’ or
Neild’s.
As a contrast to N.S.W.’s God-fearing
Ministry, the members of the present Victorian
Cabinet are said not to have a dogmatic belief
among them.
Melb. Age invariably spells Devil with a
small “d.” David Syme piously believes in “keep-
ing the devil down.” By the way, the Devil-
hats off !—always writes “david syme.”
Dr. Yackandandah Mueller, of snake-cure
fame, is shortly to be a party in an interesting
medical libel-case in Vic. County Court. Spooks,
cancers, medical journalese, rural etiquette, and
wild and whirling words are only part of the bill-
of-fare.
Thomas Ewing, M.L.A., chairman N.S.W.
Public Works Committee, occasional essayist,
fluent debater, and old Parkes’ “ young philoso-
pher, ” has turned serial-story-writer. He is also
an alleged poet of bulky proportions but strict
anonymity.
A pastoralist, well-known in the provinces,
left his widow <£40,000 a year or two ago.
She married a remarkably well-conducted young
fellow who had nothing ; but they unfortunately
managed to lose all. He has had to beg his way
back into his old billet.
The projected Australian rifle-corps, the
nucleus of which met in Sydney Town Hall last
week, looks, so far, more Protectionist than mili-
tary. ’ The last meeting was addressed by G. R.
Dibbs, C. A. Goodchap, F. A, Wright, A. Chap-
man, and R. A. Price —all in a row.
Premier Reid’s infantile love of sweets
wrecked a debate recently in N.S.W. Assembly.
The sugar question was on the board, and the
speaker was illustrating his remarks with a sample
of beet sugar in a bag. Reid promptly ate the
sample, and the orator broke down for want of it.
Reynolds’Newspaper says John Burns’
head is swelling. The Bulletin can name a
dozen people right off in the same case—five years
ago or less they knew they carried a very ordinary
potato atop ; now they feel it must be a pumpkin.
Just have a look at your own head. We mean
you.
J. F. Edgar, author of many clever Maon-
land stories in The Bulletin, leaves the sub-
editorial chair of the Melb. Herald and goes on
■to the staff of the Melb. Argus. Edgar is a
North of Ireland man who was planted young m
Maoriland and chummed much with the natives
thereof.
N.S'fW. Astronomer Russell has a rival up
Bowral way with a great local reputation. Some-
body interviewed him the other day, with a view to
ascertaining the secret of his success. It was this :
“There’s a (colonial adjective) old fool of a
weather prophet down in Sydney, and whenever
he says it’s going to be wet, I know it s going to
•be fine, and vice versa.”
The recently - deceased British Academy
President Millais is chiefly known to Australians
through two facts —he painted Pears’ soap-bubbles
picture, and he charged Simon Fraser, M.L.C. of
Victoria, 2000 guineas for painting his portrait.
And Fraser richly deserved it.
There is a J.P. recently appointed by the
God-fearing N.S.W. Ministry, sitting regularly
on the Bench near Sydney, who, less than a year
ago, was fined by the Bench which he now adorns
for “language.” The humor of it!
Dr. Neild, talking on the legs of his
imaginary Rosalinds, is not so thrilling as when,
at Melb. Shakespeare Society, he made the ladies
sit up and think of running away, while, apropos
of Falstaff, he described how his scalpel had curled
round a hundred dead drunkards’ hearts.
The Bulletin suggestion that bank-
manager Longmuir was not dead, but merely
lying dark, seems to have struck Melbourne
rather forcibly, and one or two cases of local
boomsters rumored to have been buried with-
out dying were freely quoted on ’Change and
in other financial circles. However, Long-
muir’s committal to the deep blue sea,- four
days before the P. and O. steamer Arcadia
arrived at Colombo in June, ’94, is officially
vouched for. This journal is not in a posi-
tion to prove an alibi for him. The defunct
scapegoat was, according to most accounts,
in an almost hopeless state of health when
he shipped from Melbourne.
W. B. Dailey’s children, it would
seem from the recent marriages of a son and
daughter, one in the Anglican and the other
in the Presbyterian Church, have not followed
the faith of their R.C. father, memorialised in
St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney. It is a singu-
lar coincidence that Dailey and Martin, two
of the ablest Australians, were led from the
faith of their fathers by their wives—a pair
of handsome and wealthy sisters. Dailey
after his wife’s death resumed _ active
relations with his church, but Chief-Jus-
tice Martin hardened as the years went
by, and repelled all clerical overtures on his
deathbed. Not, however, that any other
Christian faith had displaced their R.
Catholicism. Martin till the end and Dailey
for a time simply dropped their creed at the feet
of their wives.
» Demise : Chas. Dickens, jun. Australia
has two of his brothers, Edward Bulwer Lytton
and Alfred Tennyson —nasty names to fight the
battle of life on, conjoined with Dickens. Almost
as bad as Byron Moore. Dickens, jun., had all
his father’s industry, and managed to make nearly
as much money in an American tour.
Henry Clarke, M.P., the veteran member
of N.S.W. Parliament, has now been a representa-
tive for close on 30 years—having only been out of
one Parliament that is, last Parliament—since
first elected. He is 75 years, 6ft. 4in. high, as up-
right as a blue-gum, and personally most popular.
He bears no traces of age, his hair hardly being
grey yet. As Dr. Fiaschi says, “When they get
to that age, they’re the pick of the race.”
TICKS.
STOCK-INSPECTOR : “Has your mob been troubled much with parasites? ”
QUEENSLAND DROVER (thinking it a new name for boundary-riders) : “ We've not had much
trouble with per-p-p-parasites this trip ; it’s them stock-inspectors gives us rats."
W. T. Stead, in Review of Reviews
Mr. Fitchett, the editor of the Australasian Review of
Reviews, has begun the publication of a series of stirring
stories of British battles by land and sea in the Melbourne
Argus, entitled “ Deeds that won the Empire.” They
have caught on amazingly, and it is evident that young
Australia is waking up to the fact that it has been de-
frauded of its inheritance by the refusal of the authorities
to teach history in the public sshools.
Stead adds that this is a “ sin against the Holy
Ghost.” If history means the recital of revolting
stories of human abattoir exploits, splashing about
in pools of blood, and rolling on carpets of hacked
flesh and pounded bone, it would be well if it were
never taught anywhere.
Capt. Henniker, Gov. Buxton s private
sec., who goes to London as secretary of the local
Constitutional Club —a post secured for him by
Lord Kintore—is to marry a niece of N.S.W.
Attorney-General Want.
Somebody asks The
Bulletin why N.S. Wales
Treasurer Reid, the great
figure-faker, doesn’t fake
his own figure ?
The root of all evil
draws out not only the Old
Adam but the New Eve.
Eive women are now oper-
ating on Auckland (M.L.)
share-market.
H. : “ The first thing
Commandant Herbert
Booth has to deal with _in
Australia is the starvation
condition of the ‘ Army
officers. The bulk get no
wages at all, living good-
ness knows how, but mean-
while the Staff swanks
about.”
A house erected by
Johnny Fawkner in the
very early days, containing,
among other relics, a man-
telpiece fashioned and put
up by that ancient hero
himself, also an avenue of
English trees planted by
Johnny, may still be seen
on a farm at Pascoevale,
near Melbourne.
It has been told here
before, but let it go again.
During a vice-regal pro-
gress way-back in N.S.W.
Gov. Carington was intro-
duced to an aboriginal
monarch who had a mental
grievance. “ Look-a-here,
Missa Gubner,” began His
Majesty, “you boss alia
pos’-office, alia railway?”
The Governor admitted
that he did to a certain
limited extent. “ You boss
all policeman, too ? ” pro-
ceeded King Billy. “ Well,
then, you stopit Sargen
Murphy alia time kissit my
gin.” “ Oh, tut! tut,
Billy ! ” said his Excel-
lency. “ Oh, be dam tut!
tut! ” was the blackfellow’s
response ; “ suppose it Sar-
gen’ Murphy alia time
kissit Miss Gubner, you no
say tut! tut! then !
Poor Tarleton, the Sydney barrister, who
died not long ago, is said to have originally for-
mulated a libel “innuendo” now historical in
legal circles. There had been a row between two
neighbours, one of whom called the other “ a
(blanky) Wesleyan.” The drawing of the pleas
was entrusted to Tarleton, an intensely religious
man who, perhaps, didn’t like Wesleyans—he was
originally an Anglican clergyman and afterwards
Verted to R.C.’ism. “ A — Tr Wesleyan,”
the long, gaunt barrister: “meaning therew j
hypocritical person who used his religion as a cloak
for fraud.” „ ,
Mr. Thos. Broughton, a native of Windsoe,
LUCID.
SAL: “How did you get your peepers black, Bill?”
BILL: “ You see, the bloke as stoushed me ’ad two maulers, and I ’ad
two blinkers, so there you are! ”
N.S.W., born in the first year of Gov. Macquarie’s
reign (1810), and Mayor of Sydney in *47, cele
brated his 85th birthday Aug. 20. Another ei
Sydney Mayor (’57), George Thornton, born in the
last year of Gov. Macquarie’s reign (’2l), is stili
in active evidence.
W. C. Wentworth, a section of whose will
was the subject of inquiry in a Sydney court las*
week, spent the last ten years of his life in Eng-
land, where his intimacy with Archdeacon Dunbar,
his son-in-law, and present claimant of a sum of
.£25,000 from the “ Australian patriot’s ” estates,
was said to have made amends for the loss of old
Australian companionships.
G. H. Oox and W. G. Spence are colleague*
in the latest N.S.W. co-operative agitation! Dir**-
tors of the Mule Co. !
N.S.W. Attorney-General Want recently
presented Detective Hynds with a gold watck,
inscribed—“ Presented to Detective Hynds by J.
TT Want, Attorney-General, for loyal services m
the Dean ease.” This was accompanied by b
letter from Mr. Want, speaking in the highest
terms of the detective, and referring especially t.
his own personal indebtedness to that officer
Which, in view of the Crick arrest and proseou
tion, and other circumstances, strikes Th*
Bulletin as a very queer piece of business indeed
The Argus quotes a sentence from orator
Bryan, Democratic nominee for U.S. Presidency
You shall not press down upon the brow of labor thi*
crown of thorns. You shall not crucify mankind upon i.
cross of gold
—with the remark that it “ has to our mote soper
ears a slight flavor of blasphemy.” Yet, in the
same issue, “ Timotheus ” is allowed to say that
Ministers
... sit quietly by while their Corner supporters iv
dulge in gross abuse of men whose shoe-latchets they art
not worthy to undo.
When the “ Warrigal Club ” man chums
With the swaggies who “ hump their drums ; "
When the Earnest “ takes wine” with Sham ;
When the lion protects the lamb ;
When the Devil “ eats salt ” with Good,
It is easily understood
The Millennium’s —just as far,
And there’s Coin in that bazaar !


THE DEVIL ON WHEELS.—THE ALARMING INCREASE OF SUNDAY CYCLING.


'' /TyA'/ 7o O f/nish,
Saj/s ZJ?e CZutc^
He |
knew that .the sympathies of Sir John Mad*'
den were with the wronged woman and the]
wronged child, and his utterances on the,
subject of the Divorce Act showed that his
attitude was in accordance with the dic-i
tatea of religion., ?
n e??~7oz< /.
/r . %uesT/fffi
J “Any toleration I extend to bicycling / ////
* on Sunday is subject to the proper ob- ' /////
. servance of religious duties ”—So said
«, Dr. Bevan. In different language Arch- ///yV^
JFtX , bishop Carr says exactly the same //^^2
W- thing ' IfTTI'l II11) |l I fTTII'iTI 11 111 I I 7""'H 'yay
m a
•1 N this colony no observant person conhl doubt Mlj
l that during the last few years there had been IjH
an increase of immorality, especially amongst if In
the very ‘
feez-so n s
/ c? c som e
Ca//ec{
7las~fy^’
?2 a m e s .
/ /1
|f\ ■ \
!>s?'
Jt/tL. mever
Vp&r y
fj. *«• 0
'<b Q *4 \
/A\^\\^\
|V%VAV\
\. “a. Qa. A Va Yi. a \
\
\\
VVA\>"
r'Z&r /
/ c'*- 5 ’ 4
* .4°
/, -Jg
Z/'^/
\S’ ,& s, c \ ° ' |
I
J
t~
GOLD NEAR MELBOURNE.
V. 0n Saturday and Sunday afternoon;
'lie new nnds were visited by large nura
bora of visitors
/ 'Z- J3e&. z* /
y?£acp "
MELBOURNIANA.


h
X
—THE—
HERCULES. SHIRT.
, IMS! 1-It HE to any part ot the colonies.
Sample Shirt on receipt of P. 0.0., 7 • ; or ;{<> - Half-doz.
Strongly recommended for station wear ; is very durable
and unshrinkable; fitted with treble collar clips. State
height, chest measure, and size of collar usually worn.
Write for sample. I’IKII l»KO lirisbanc.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
WW
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
In Stock, and to Arrive
BAND SAW MILLS,
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS,
PORTABLE and SEMI-ROUTABLE
ENGINES and BOILERS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
STEEL TRAY NAVVY BARROWS
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
FLEMING’S RELIABLE BUGGIES
STATION WAGONS, HARNESS, etc., etc.
Catalogue on application.
BIHHI % n
TTLE
FLUID SHEEP DIP T
| POWDER SHEEP DIP
'-FOOT-ROT “CURE” J
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to—
MORRIS, LITTLE & SOM LTD.,
DONCASTER, ENG., and MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents—
dfh
POLITICAL
POINTS
Badly wanted in Australia—a Gaud-fearing
Ministry.
There is more surplice than surplus about
the N.S.W. God-fearing Ministry.
“We can’t stomach that,” said a S.A.
Tory M.L.C. recently. A new name. The
Stomach party.
The only Leg. Councillor who ever passed
from that body into S.A. Assembly is Copley,
leader of the Opposition.
Griffiths, M.P. (S.A.) says that province
is suffering from a negative and a positive evil.
The one is that the Heavens do not rain, the other
that Kingston does reign.
“ Women support the Divorce Bill because
there are not snffioient men to go round, and they
want to create a brisker circulation of males.”—
Kelly, M.H.R. (of Maoriland).
N.S.W. Labor-leader M‘Gowen : “The
present method of ascertaining the wish of the
people is barbarous, useless, and unreliable.”
Candor to recklessness. The “present method of
ascertaining the will of the people ” has ascertained
—M‘Gowen.
Out of 11,000 Q. civil-servants 5297 are in
the Railway Department. Nearly all the latter
are Labor-men, vigorous opponents of the Ministry
—for which merit the Ministry aforesaid has just
returned them the amount they were retrenched
some years ago. Moral ?
N.S.W. Government doesn’t feel quite
well over the Stuart (retrenched Civil-servant) v.
Gould case, right of action in which was conceded
to plaintiff by the Privy Council. Stuart, who
claims damages for allegedly illegal dismissal, is
said to have refused .£5OO to square matters.
The Argus talks largely of a big prospec-
tive Vic. produce trade with Glasgow, likely to
result from the visit to that hamlet of a glorified
middleman ca’d Sinclair, ye ken. The Argus
may whistle the tune of “ private enterprise ”
until she blows her teeth out ; any large trade of
the future will be strictly co-operative.
Mr. CASEY AT THE TEL! PHONE.
‘ Are you there? Is it the produce store? Well,
send me a hag of corn and a hag of chaff.
What’s that? Who’s it for, do you say! Why,
the horse, of course.” —(And then Mr. Casey
rings off.)
The logic of N.S.W. Foreign-trade Pre-
mier : 1. Let us kill local manufacture and crown
importation. 2. Let us hold an international
exhibition when local manufacture has been dead
three years. Then we shall know exactly how
dead it is.
Imports, like charity, should begin at
home. Raise all the stuff you can “on your own,”
before you import one grain, one rag, or one drop.
In the new Tas. Electoral Bill the absurd
wages qualification is retained and wqinen suffra-
gists are requested to wait a while. Attorney-
General Clark says he would be Democratic if he
could ; but, in Tasmania, the Upper House is the
whole team and the dog under the waggon ; so
Clark only asks for half a loaf in the hope of get-
ting a bit of burnt crust.
The recent want-of-confidence motion was
the seventh which the Ballance-Seddon (M.L.)
Govt, has survived in six years. It defeated the
first attack, in 1891, by a majority of eight, and
the seventh attack, in 1896, by a majority of 28.
No other Ministry in Australasia ever showed,
after six years of office, a majority three times as
large as the one it started with.
Hobart will return six members and
Launceston four under the Hare system of ballot-
ing tacked on to the new Tas. Electoral Bill. The
clause approving of the experiment of propor-
tional voting for these two cities was carried by
the Assembly without a division. The Upper
House is understood to have no serious objection
to the Hare system, so it is likely to become law.
Downie Stewart, an ancient Maoriland
politician, holds that if two people are married
for two years without having a child they should
be entitled to a divorce. Downie evidently
believes in the old theory that every woman’s
mission is to marry and have nine children, and
if she doesn’t begin fulfilling her mission after
two years, he thinks some other woman should
get the contract.
Premier Reid’s new financial policy is
about this : He says that every year’s revenue is
to be responsible for the year’s actual expenditure-
all of it, whether the expenditure is for that year’s
accounts, or the previous year’s, or any other
year’s. Then he charged about £900,000 of the
expenditure for the year to the accumulated defi-
ciency, and put it into the public debt, on the
ground that it was in payment of the previous
year’s accounts. And of such is the gospel of the
“ cash basis.”
A little bill to
extend the hours
of polling at Vic.
municipal elec-
tions, so that
working-men will
have a chance to
vote, roused the
Leg. Council to
fury the other
day. That insti-
tution which
Sargood alleges to
be “ on a sound
democratic basis”
—raged about
throwing open
the flood-gates of
revolution, or
something to that
effect, and amen-
ded the measure
into practical no-
thingness. It
didn’t affect any
of the Council’s
interests or privi-
leges ; but any
measure which
authorises any-
body to vote
about anything
at any time what-
ever aggravates
the 48 Rich Land-
lords to despera-
tion.
Major-Gene-
ral French, the
N. S. W. Com-
mandant, consid-
ers that the man
ufaeture of pow-
der should be in
the hands of
Govt. “Thefirst
object of a Go-
vernment would
be to produce the
best art iele ;
whereas the first object of a private co. is to
produce dividends.” Right for powder. But also
right for numberless other things.
T. J. Byrnes, the “rising hope of the
Queensland Catholic party,” was the first represen-
tative man to give practical shape to the nebulous
desire of a certain set to have an Australian Judge
on the Bench of the Imperial Privy Council. He
incorporated the idea in the proceedings of the late
Federal Council, and claims the credit of having
thus inspired the ’Ome authorities to treat the sub-
ject as important and in a sense urgent.
The want of brains and of political fore-
sight of the “ Labor-party ” of Victoria was
amply shown the other day by its refusal to in-
clude “Employers’ Liability ” in its political pro-
gramme on the ground that Irvine’s Bill would
give all that is wanted. Why, even if carried (and
it probably will not be), it is a mere half-way
house to the reform needed before a man’s duty to
his own workmen is placed on the same footing as
his duty to other men’s workmen.
Victorian Leg. Council is postponing con-
sideration of all the “ objectionable clauses ” in
the Companies Bill. One of those postponed is
the clause forbidding any co. to set out in its
balance-sheet the existence of a reserve-fund un-
less such a fund actually exists. And this is one
of the provisions which the House of Directors
considers objectionable ! ! What a low opinion
of themselves these M’sL.C. must have when they
are afraid even to pledge themselves not to lie
about the reserve-fund !
Robert Stout’s constant tirade about the
Seddon Government’s seizure of the municipal sink-
ing funds would sound a lot better but for one
circumstance : It was Stout who passed the Act
authorising the seizure of the sinking funds. It
was also Stout who made such a learned muddle
of the said Act that instead of merely authorising
the annexation of the funds he was thinking of it
authorised the Government to run amok among
any others which might be. established in the
future, and to annex sinking funds in general. As
a rule, lawyers can’t make laws that will hold
water.
Sydney Evening News reproaches N.S.W.
Protectionists for not ceasing their useless,
foolish agitation, seeing that two successive elec-
tions have shown that the country is distinctly
against them. Curiously enough, the News
doesn’t urge the little band of Vic. Freetraders,
who have been shamefully licked at ten successive
elections, to give up their useless agitation and
accept the logic of things as they are, but whoops
them on to fight for the “ caws ’ to the bitter end.
The point of view again !
S.A. : The coloring matter imparted in the
English filter through which American cable-news
to Australia passes is shown by the items about
Bryan and the contest for the U.S. Presidency.
The cables said and inferred half-a-dozen nines
that the contest was a farce, silver-man Bryan
being nowhere. Yet Smalley, the Times man,
predicts a close run and an uncertain finish. In
the betting the most that has been got about
M‘Kinley is 2 to 1, whereas on Australian cabled
information it ought to have been at least 100 to 1.
The Maoriland Oppositionists are throwing
up the sponge. For weeks they have been buoying
themselves up with the hope that at a critical
moment some of the left-wing would join their
ranks. From this fond dream they have been
roughly awakened by the result of the want-ot-
confidence debate. Mitchelson has declared his
intention of retiring. Bell and Duthie are follow-
ing suit. The Nice People will now probably
affect the high-class American assumption of lofty
indifference to politics. Sour grapes. Ihe Oppo-
sition is now a fox without a tail; or rather, per-
haps, a fox that is all tail.
Frederick Sargood, in Vic. Legislative
Council, took exception to the proviso in the
Companies Bill that two directors as well as the
manager should sign the annual summary of the
co. ’s affairs. The grieved Sargood said that this
was dangerous, and added : “It is a matter which
concerns yourselves as directors.” By this remark
the foolish old draper frankly acknowledged that
the House wasn’t expected to legislate for the
good of the community, or in the cause of justice
or honesty or fair-dealing, but only in the selfish,
sordid interests of “ yourselves as directors.
How much latitude the Councillors want as
THE OLD MAN WAS BUSY.
KIND OLD LADY: “So your poor mother’s ill. And what is your father doing?”
CHORUS: “ ’E’s doin’ six months!”
directors ” is evidenced by the fact that they object
to be required to sign the accounts and thus make
themselves responsible for their accuracy. If a
director isn’t prepared to know enough about the
business to be aware whether the balance-sheet is
a lie or otherwise, or if he isn’t prepared to pre-
vent the issue of a balance-sheet when he knows
it to be a lie, then what is the use of paying him
to be a director? A director who isn’t responsible
for anything might as well be dead.
Sydney Daily Telegraph queries : If
N.S.W. Govt, is asked to “import, breed and
distribute, by sale or hire, well-bred cattle, chiefly
bulls,” for the improvement of dairy herds, why
shouldn’t it also be asked to lend (note that the
argument doesn’t even back up to the “ sale or
hire ”) “ best printing paper and new shiny type ”
(why not linotype ?) to newspaper proprietors ? A
more pertinent question is : As N.S.W. Govt,
carries by post (railway distances and hand-
delivery) newspapers free of all charge, why
shouldn’t it carry also dairy-produce free ? Why
does the Foreign-trade man in this protected glass-
house always heave this particular sort of brick ?
S.A. had a small surplus last year, partly
through charging sundry items of ordinary expendi-
ture to loans, and partly thanks to the Westralian
boom, which swelled the postal and telegraph
receipts immensely, and boomed the “fees ” item
through much registration of wild cats. If the
frenzy lasts there may be another small and
equally dubious surplus next year, though the
estimates show a deficiency of £7OOO ; and on the
strength of this possibility it has been decided to
throw away a good deal of revenue by raising the
income-tax exemption from £3i25 to Al5O. Queens-
land also had a small surplus last year, and is
taking care not to repeat the experience by abol-
ishing a large number of revenue duties. Each
province has a huge accumulated deficiency, but
neither Treasurer seems to have been struck by the
beautifully simple idea that it was blank foolish-
ness to sacrifice any revenue whatever until this is
paid off. Australasia never yet produced a Trea-
surer with grit enough to tell this country what a
fool’s paradise it lives in.
A FAMILY LIKENESS!
It now seems certain that G-i Mies will anti-
cipate dismissal by resigning the Vic. Agent-
Generalship at the close of the year. It is not
improbable, however, that Victoria will see a
general election before the year is out; if so, the
wily Duncan will be badly “left.” Successful as
Turner has been with his slow, plodding methods,
the re-appearance of so experienced a tactioian as
Gillies, with Wrixon, an old colleague, in the
Upper House, will mean a disturbing element to
the progress of Democratic legislation far more
serious than the spasmodic outbursts of the Mac-
Intyre-Madden type. Consequently,
garden Fat Men are watching the political baro-_
meter with undisguised trepidation.
The S.A. Ministry recently accepted invi-
tations to view the steamer Australian, which is to
trade between Adelaide and China. After the in-
evitable dinner the toasts of the Queen and the
Governor had been proposed, when Griffiths, M.P.,
mischievously instigated Prof. Watson to inter-
polate “the health of the Emperor of China,”
which was not on the programme. The chairman
frowned, but as several big Chinese merchants
were present, the sentiment had to be honored,
and the spectacle was witnessed of Kingston
and his colleagues drinking to a potentate whose
subjects, under a Bill now before Parliament, are
to be more rigidly excluded than ever from the
Northern Territory and from S.A. generally.
The effort made in N.S. Wales to create a
fruit-export trade by buying fruit with the public
money and sending it to England at the risk of the
community, is leading to bad language and smell-
ful accusations. This is how the allegations go:
N.S.W. has a God-fearing Ministry. Jacob Gar-
rard is a member thereof m an aggravated state of
piety. He represents a very depressed fruit-
growing district. The Government buys privately
thousands of cases of fruit at a good figure from
Garrard’s constituents, and thereby makes them
feel better. And sundry degraded unbelievers
suggest or infer that the whole business is mainly
a sop to Garrard's constituents, and Garrard is
understood to say that the people who say these
things are lost.
The erection of new and costly Parliament
houses in Sydney must, whenever federation
talk is on tap, raise the contentious question of the
choice of a Federal Capital. If the new Sydney
Parliament houses are to be the legislative halls of
a province only, then that province is about to
purchase a white elephant. On the other hand, if
the new buildings are conceived with an eye to
making Sydney the Federal Capital, it’s “Good-
bye, Federation.” Further, hasn’t Melbourne
already deeply regretted, and isn’t it now paying
through the nose for, the huge expenditure it in-’
curved on its over-gorgeous senatorial buildings ?
Keid’s action is merely the action of the small
municipality under a magnifying lens—the disease
that builds a palace when a cowshed would com-
fortably answer all purposes.
The returns so far show that M.S. Wales
has 16,321 and Victoria 21,177 people paying in-
come-tax on incomes of <£2oo a year and upwards.
If the returns of the five provinces—S.A., Tas-
mania, Victoria, N.S.W., and Maoriland —which
collect income-tax could be accurately compared—
which is difficult, owing to the different ways of
levying the tax —it would cast a lot of light on
the wealth of this allegedly great and rich country.
It might also incidentally burst up a lot of gaudy
fiction on the same subject. The statisticians’re-
ports go to show that Australasia is the richest
icountry on earth—and there is hardly one Treasurer
n it who isn’t suffering from insomnia and nervous
prostration and acute jumps in his efforts to keep
his province out of bankruptcy.


As^
m
C *
1°
SIX YEARS’ TEST.
60,000 IN USE.
RELIABLE!, DURABLE,
and RAPID.
EASIEST RUNNING
TYPEWRITER
KNOWN.
REQUIRES LESS
MOV EM ENTS
TO OPERATE.
MANIFOLDING
UN EXCELLED.
Fisher [Ingham
.
MARK
bS> 6
ii
rfH
M IdHr
<the
smith
•H4*l
p ff£
THE
typewriter^
CORRECTIONS
EASILY MADE.
KEYS ALL LOCKED
AT END OF LINE.
TRIPLEX RIBBON
movement.
DIRECT
p™S HANGEABLE
FIXED ROTARY
TYPE-BRUSH.
The
remier Typewriter Sales
EXCEED ALL OTHERS.
Supreme
Australian Tract
Solo Importers for
Australasia
HEAD OFFICES :
1,2, 3 VICTORIA ARCADE. SYDNEY 1
—AND AT— 7 ‘ *
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, DUNEDIN,
A Mother’s Appeal.
The following letter, dated 12th July, 1896, frond
Mrs. E. J. Grien, St. Hilda, Newton, N.S.W.,
appeals to all parents : “My little boy, now aged
14 years; suffered with dropsy, which extended all
over his body. He could not lie or walk about—
he was such a terrible size—even His Head was so
dropsical that it was twice its natural size. He
was quite blind, and His breathing wad very
labored. I took hind to a number of the cleverest
medical men of Sydney, but they cbuld do
nothing, and I began to think' that my pctor boy
was near to his last days. C)ne day when passing
a chemist’s window, I saw ‘ Warner’s Safe Cure
for Dropsy.’ I purchased one bottle, and when
finished the swelling seemed less, and his appetite
and digestion better. His digestion had been so
weak he could not take a drop of milk.
“ I was so delighted with the change, I sent for
more ‘ Safe ’ Cure, and now 1 can say this medicihc
saved my dear boy’s life, and trust that this may
be seen by other parents who have dear children
suffering. I would like them to see what Warner’s
‘ Safe ’ Cure has done for my son.”*
The Eye-sight measure sent per post by
the inventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclougli,
the well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney,
is a wonderful little contrivance which will enable
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot of course be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection
such as long sight, short sight, old sight. Hull
particulars from Messrs. Greenfield and Barra*
clough.*
“FITS LIKE A GLOVE."
THOMSON’S
=FITS LIKE
A Gl*i
TRADE
MARK
"CLOVE-FITTING"
CORSET
The Perfection of Shape
Finish,'and Durability.
APPBOVED by the
whole polite world.
Annual Sale over
One Million
Fairs,
To be had o: all Dealers
throughout the World.
Twelve First Medals.
MANUFACTURERS.
W. S. THOMSON & CO., LTD., LONDON.
See that every Corset is marked “THOMSON'S GLOVE-
FITTING,” and bears our Trade Mark, the Crown.
No others are genuine.
WORLD-WIDE POPULARITY.
THE DELICIOUS
PERFUME
CRAB APPLE
BLOSSOMS
AND THE
CROWN
LAVENDER
SALTS.
ANNUAL SALES EX-
CEED 500,000 BOTTLES
EXTRA CONCENTRATED.
R »,
Blossoms
177 HEWBONDSTLONDOH
NPfPFUMERTCOMP,
No articles of the toilet have ever been produced which have
been received with the enthusiasm which has greeted the
Crab Apple Blossom Perfume "nd the Crown Lavender
feALTs. They are literally the delight of two continents, and
are as eagerly sought in New York and Paris as in London
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE CROWN PERFUMERY CO..
177, New Bond Street, London.
DO YOU KNOW
That in America, where there are scores
upon scores of high-grade wheels which
can hold their own in any part of the
world,
are recognised as leaders.
When you see one you’ll admit they are
‘‘The Standard of the World.' 1 '
We are adding to our list of agents.
GREVILLE TURNER, Ltd.,
City Cycle Exchange,
37 Market Street, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WE 3TBROOK
116 Pitt Street, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Original Cash Fielder.
Commissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughout
the World.
STARTING PRICE COMMISSIONS EXECUTED
Telegraphic Code— ‘ Westbrook, Sydney,” Telephone
No. 1542. v ’
Tfl°R the person who is not a millionaire, there
SYDN™ L V W ° , COPFEE PLACES to
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT/' situated 81
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other
“Ellis King-street Coffee Palace." situated i
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office *
Proprietor .. «EO. w. Ellis,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Considerable credit for the success of the Aus-
tralian Eleven must be due to the management of Harry
Musgrove, and this is an opportune moment for Tub Bul-
letin to remark that his claims to undertake the job
satisfactorily were first announced and advocated in these
columns. Musgrove’s virtues as a conductor of travelling
show combinations are negative rather than positive. He
deserves credit for the absence of many difficulties that
haven t arisen this time, such as the Giffen difficulty and
the old-time grumbling re gate-money returns. The
evenness of the manager’s temper is reflected in the per-
formances of Trott’s men, who have seemingly remained
on good terms with themselves and one another from first
to last. Johns feels a bit sore, but the Victorian wicket-
keeper was the one superfluous member of the team as
things went, therefore his dissatisfaction doesn’t count.
* * * *
“Ranjitsinhji’s performance in the second test-
match :it Manchester” (writes “An Australian Abroad ”
to Tub Bulletin) “was unfortunate for England in that
it so thoroughly showed up the poor display of the other
members of the side. In the enthusiasm shown at the
close of the match, poor old ‘ W.G.’ was almost forgotten
annd the continued cheers for the Indian Prince.
“Ranjitsinhji was a Brahmin and is a prince of
j e Royal blood of some huge province or other in India.
Mt he preferred cricket to caste, and has been expelled
from his religion for breaking its most sacred rules by
living and eating with unbelievers. It is said that he
intends to go into Parliament, and, being a great favorite
with all classes, he will probably have a comfortable
borough found for him.
“ Iredale’s 108, Giffen’s 80, and Trott’s 53 in the
second test-match were all careful and g’ood performances,
but the team badly wants a hitter, if Graham gets going
he is by far the best of the lot in this respect, but he
rarely does get going, and many of the matches have
proved most tedious to watch.
The ninth Australian Eleven has, so far,
shown that, with a strong and determined executive com-
mittee and a firm manager, there is little difficulty in
avoiding dissensions. Moreover, the general conduct of
the team has been excellent. It is not expected that 15
cricketers are going to behave like 15 saints doing penance
and they don t ; but, so far, the present team has
managed to greatly improve the reputation previously
attached to Australian Elevens.
' Richardson bowled better than ever before in
the second innings of the Australians at Manchester test-
match. lor just over three hours he bowled without a
rest, and Ins last over was as good as his first. The speed
never slackened, and for a fast bowler it was wonderful
.f variety of balls he sent down. He uses a clear, brainy
intelligence m his work, and he can break both ways with
ins swiftest deliveries. Jones was suffering from a strained
side m the match and couldn’t do much, but he is never
likely to rival the Surrey man, and will never earn the
reputation that Spofforth, Turner, or Ferris did.”
Ernest Jones’ Adelaide friends cannot under-
stand ..he cable news that the Sussex engagement has
v-u trough, but recent English papers mention facts
which suggest the solution. Jonah’s salary of £365 a year
was to be raised by subscription, one gentleman promising
is «\year. Enthusiasm like this frequently wanes, and
probably Jones recent ill-success has been the cause.
Jonah is probably sorry now that he didn’t accept the S. A.
offer of £2OO a year for five years.
» * * *
Two batsmen—Ranjitsinhji and Storer—have
each scored a couple of centuries in one match against
Yorkshire this season. Nevertheless, Yorkshire won the
English county championship.
* * # *
Trott s luck in winning the toss changed with
the weather. And the English drought broke up about
tne time that fat Arry had the misfortune to get run out.
* * * *
In the Somersetshire match the Australians lost
s wickets for 45 runs after Robson went on to bowl, the
new man taking 6 for 22.
* * * *
‘‘Our Boys ” deserve to have an attractive game
for their final, with the South of England. The county
tournament is ended, so probably the South will play a
representative team at Scarborough, in which case fine
weather will mean a capital “gate.” But. why couldn’t the
Australians make a farewell appearance in London, con-
sidering that the usual matches with Middlesex were
omitted from the season’s programme
* * * *
Batting averages for the English season down to
(he middle of July show that Abel, Ranjitsinhji, J. T.
Brown, Gunn, Grace, Storer and others had then a much
higher average than Sid Gregory, who headed the Austra-
lians. Among the bowlers, J. T. Hearne only had a dis-
tinct advantage over Jones and Trumble, havitm taken
nearly double as many wickets at less expense. Other
figures make it clear that the Australians are a much
stronger bowling- team than any of the English counties
*** ‘ *
A, Toowoomba Australian explains how the
thud test-match was lost., “ What really puts the Aus-
tralian team off,” he says, “is having to play against a
black potentate. Black princes in this country always
wear brass plates, and a prince without a plate is a source
of great embarrassment to the Australians. Added to the
worry attaching to the proper pronunciation of the plate-
Jess Ranjitsinhji’s name, there is always the hauntino-
thought : ‘ Me gib it plug ’bacca it go out first ball ! ’ And
then it doesn’t.”
* * * *
The rainy weather put the Australians at a dis-
advantage on two occasions when Trott lost the toss -
with Surrey and Somersetshire—but it also saved them
“' J"’? probable defeats. Had every match been played
out, their proportion of wins to losses would have been
much reduced. On the other hand, they can say that no
English team has made 400 runs in an innings against
them, although the scoring in inter-county matches this
season has been exceptionally high.
* * * sft
Lancashire is still strong in bowling. Returns
1“ July 15 show Hallam, Mold and Briggs anion"■ the
12 best averages, little Briggs being last on the list’with
S 4 wickets at a cost of 15.45 apiece.
* * » *
Australian bowlers, being- a large assortment,
are not required to work nearly as hard as tile best
English pros., who, as a rule, have to keen pegging away
steadily with very little assistance from their inferior
colleagues. For instance, in any given number of weeks
this season, J. T. Hearne, Richardson, Attewefl, Briggs
and Mold, collectively, bowled almost twice as many overs
as Jones, Trumble, Trott, Giffen and MTvibbin.' The
county cracks never stand out- of a match unless they
happen to be crippled. The fiction that the Australians
get overworked will not bear the test of figures, for
llearne and Richardson took 298 wickets between them in
about the same time, or perhaps a fortnight longer than
the time, in which Jones and Trumble captured 101.
**. * *
, Beat Bulletin,—The suggestion that the Aus-
tralian Eleven had a high old time at the Tivoli the nh’-ht
previous to their first public appearance in London against
M.G.C. is false oil the face of it. One might as well chat-"-e
them with getting drunk on the eve of the first test-match
in which they were got out for the paltry score of 53
’\ e near none of such excuses made for the English teams
who have no managers to keep them in order, and no
strong gate-money reason for heroic endeavors to di«-
tingiush themselves.—Rational.
* * * *
The All-M.L. team only scored throe tries
against Q. at Wellington. The game was got off in g
howling storm. Players were not discernible through the
sleet., and sides had to be counted every few minutes to
see if anybody had got drowned.
* * * *
Randwick-Wentworth test-match at Sydney was
lifeless, not up to fourth-grade average. The majority
seemed to have eaten too much lunch and left their
brilliance in the dining-room. The W’s lost skipper
Warbnck, E. A. Martineer and Strachan—Warbrick being
knocked on the throat (larynx- broken !) and hospitalised,
the premiers rejoiced by 12 to 3, and the crowd rejoiced
when it was all over.
* * * *
. Misprint in Hobart Tasmanian News: “Football
m Hobart is netting- worse and worse every week.”
* * * *
Does football brutalise?” A recently-im-
poi ted master at a Hobart school has evidently serious
thoughts on this, point. He is extremely religious, and
shows it in a variety of ways. He was asked to become
secretary of the school athletic club, and his first impor-
tant actioni in that capacity was to write the acceptance
ot a football challenge. He headed this with the words
kick ! 1S “ ove ‘' -^ nc * man can do a decent drop-
* * * *
f ?Z\ ng wea ti ier all Saturday’s Melb.
football-matches were declared off. The premiership is
not yet certain. S. Melb. holds best position but has yet
to play Fitzroy and Port Melb., both strong teams, whilst
Plays Fitzroy and Carlton. ‘ Essendon has
isor ” n ™ tc hes, so that a triple tie is easily possible for
lbifb premiership.
* * * *
decline of S.A. football is undoubted, as
* f al Prominent Payers are known to be in search of
• n" the , old days they wou ld have been shunned by
their fellow-players as black-legs.
* * * *
Victorian lacrosse team, visiting Adelaide, had
abad . Defeate d hy S.A. 13 to nil, by N. Adelaide
6 to 5 and University Bto 1. The Vies., however, managed
to defeat a combined junior team 6 to 1.
* * * *
„ f. M.L. leader-writer connects football with
H h’, 1 ' 011 and Dea! option, and assumes the possibility
of the two matters being placed in the one Bill presented
,°. la “' aul ? n h A unique combination. The wicked turf
might be similarly dealt with, proposed horse-restriction
being incorporated with the “Noxious Weeds Bill.”
With halo-like modesty Petersham (N.S.W.)
Congregational Church has passed a resolution thanking
the Narrabn Mayor for summoning Sunday footballers,
they thank him “ for the noble stand he has taken in re-
™!„ enc the wholesale desecration of the Sabbath,” and
proceed jo say that while the result of the recent police-
court proceedings is sure to bring upon him “ the scorn-
a>>ose that are at ease and the contempt of the
pioua, yet they l 7cnow that his courageous conduct will
secure for hmi the approval of the Lord of the Sabbath.”
?mA a rw'U Sh( e 7 d A » la d to hear of the approval of the
Loulof the Sabbath as Petersham Tcnoivs— probably ner
private wire. 1 - 1
* * * *
‘ Z h L ,^ 10 , ldd cycle-racing on public roads be
asks a correspondent. “It is just as bad to
be struck down by a bicycle as by a bolting buggy.”
t> T a 5 kee Martin neither drinks nor smokes,
men < * O6S snlo^e ’ but drinks wine, like all his country -
* * * *
Substantial fortunes have already been made
out of the bike-trade by two Sydneyites who, three years
ago, had hardly a feather to fly with
* * * *
The father of young Telfer, who was killed in a
street cycle accident in Sydney, the other day, has been
so unfortunate as to lose his two sons, both fine youn<>-
fellows, by accident, within about a year.
* * * *
Mic. Chief Commissioner of Police now permits
the uniform police to ride bicycles.
* * * *
Probably the best-known portrait of Bert Harris,
the English cyclist in Australia last season, shows the
speedy youth on a machine fitted with a wondrous frame-
work of bent iron, one arm of which half encircles his
waist, what this extraordinary affair was half the
cyclists in Melb. puzzled their brains to conjecture, yet
not one hit the mark. The idea emanated from a man
wno, horrified at the stooping position of most wheelmen,
devised an apparatus whereby the weary scorcher would
be held in a partly upright position, his diaphragm resting
< i a a curved and padded bar. The inventor paid Harris
L2O to have his photo, taken with this machine, only
stipulating that the Leicester flyer should stand before no
other camera for a period of 12 months.
♦ * * *
Davison, the Hillgrove bikeman, is a miner,
winch looks well for his future championship chances
Aquatic and pugilistic history shows that the world’s
champion, in sports requiring strength and staying
power, invariably is manufactured out of the manual
laborer.
* * * *
Joe Megson writes from England that he is
homesick. A bad sign as to his chances. The man who
succeeds never gets homesick while his successes con-
* * * *
Tom and Arthur Din ton, the crack long-distance
bikeinen, both knocked themselves out of time from over-
exertion, and Arthur has since died. Tom rode 30-mile
races one on top of thejother until he collapsed.
George Towns fairly wore down Chris. Neilsen
in their match in wager-boats over the Raymond Terrace
course on Saturday last. Neilsen collapsed when Towns
collared him after covering 2J miles. Towns is now talked
of as a candidate for championship honors when Stanburv
returns. J
* * * *
Referring in a private letter to his Harding
match, Staubury said-“ I had-it won in the first ten
strokes. Nice reading for a probable opponent!
* * * *
Anti-gambling petitions have rained continu-
ously into Las. Parliament during the session, and the
Gaming Suppression Bill has just made its appearance.
Every known form of gambling is squashed flat, but the
last clause gives power to the Gov. in Council to 'render
inoperative all the penalties of the Bill re lotteries and
totalisators. \yjiereas the anti-gamblers howl for the
demolition of Tattersall, and beseech Sir Post-office Fysh
to stop all correspondence after the manner of the other
provinces. Sir P.O. thinks of the £13,000 revenue Tatter-
sal! brings him, and is exceeding sorrowful.
In pleading for plaintiff in the CLIPPER-Gilmore
libel-case, at Launceston, the other day, barrister Purves
scornfully referred to “ this class of newspapers which everi
insinuate that owners of racehorses ihstruct trainers and
jockeys not to win a race.” This ,is a sore point with
Purves (in his legal capacity), and one that Champion
probed cruelly.
* * * *
, Carbine’s son, Charge, ran a really big race in the
Hampden Stakes. Last in the straight, he came through
his horses in great style, and Hopscotch just struggled
home in front of hini with a neck to the good. Coil
finished third, three lengths off, humping a 101 b. penalty.
Charge, as a maiden, had a 31b. allowance, but he finished
so full of running that it is hard to take any line from the
colts’ respective running as to their Derby chances over
the extra three furlongs.
* * sjc *
Flying Hopscotch set a cruel pace in w.f.a.
Hampden Stakes, and had most of bis 14 followers upset
at halfway. Long’s chestnut champion was the king of
the crowd, but Charge finished fast alongside, and would
have won a few yards further. Penalised Coil, third,
hadn’t the “go” of Charge, and, despite the difference in
weights the Carbine colt may prove the better on Derby
day.
People who love a first-class horse think that his
heavy weight won’t stop Hopscotch in Epsom mile. He
won with 131 b. less last year in very hurried time,
after running unplaced in Hampden Stakes a fortnight
previously. This latter race he won last Saturday. Dal-
meny, third in the Epsom last year, has only 7.9 this, and
should prove a good investment.
* * * *
The Cup star, Reka, galloped queerly in Tatt’s
Spring Handicap last Saturday, but would have been
much better than third had he not swerved at the Leger.
The finish was burnished gold for the books, 14 to 1
Checkmate landing from Leonidas, who is due for a race
at the A.J.C. Reka was 5t02 in a 25-field, and his
owner never dreamt of defeat.
Pivot’s unlooked-for all-the-way win in Sandown
Park Handicap, last week, has put him in credit for Melb.
as well as C. Cup. The Svviveller horse is quite fast
enough to support the prediction of an authority, quoted
by Tiib B-ulletix, that a hurdler would win at Fleraington
this year.
* * * *
Gozoczar’s late efforts don’t foreshadow the
classic prospects he possessed last year. Sabretache and
Fucile_ aren’t likelys, but Charge is a hot possibility.
Anything that can give Hopscotch a gruelling at w.f.a. is
no_mouse. Tirb didn’t saddle Saturday, but if he, Reka,
Coil and Co. all start in Rand wick Derby there should be
an impressive scene and much change of currency.
* * * *
Newman pulled out for the big money at Rand-
wick on Saturday immediately after Hampden Stakes;
made play most of the way, and finished fourth, beating
20 others. Two miles and four furlongs with an interval
between.
* * * *
Prince Harold went near to beating the Aus-
tralian two-mile trotting record, 4min. 57sec., at Brighton,
Sydney. He covered the first half-mile in 1.13, second
1.14 6-10, third 1.14 6-10, and last in 1.15 3-10 ; in all, half
second behind Honor’s record. As a rule, the Prince is a
good breaker, coming into his stride straightaway, but in
the last round he made a bad break, which lost him the
record.
* * * *
Frank Agan is the pacer that was, at latest,
spoken of in America as likely to cross over to take down
Buckland s Fritz in N.S.W. He lately paced a mile-heat
in 2min. 6Jsec. Should a horse be sent over, the national
character of the event would warrant the A.J.C. in
taking the matter in hand, and running the heats off at
Randwick. Property worked up, for a Saturday after-
noon, a record attendance could be counted on.
* * * *
The omissions from the A.J.C. jockey-list came
as a staggerer. Apropos , anyone doing “ a hit of funny
business ” had better try it on with a horse owned and
heavily backed by a powerful racing magnate. All the
trainers* however, can go on for another year. The dif-
ference between a jock, and a trainer often is that one
rides to order, and the other orders to ride.
* * * *
A clerk and a bit of pencil are to be bookie’s
sole appurtenances in future. Nondescripts who race
round agitatedly, and. signal betting and whatnot, have
been vetoed b,v the A. J.C. as objectionable and unneces-
sary. So that any individual who now tries to earn an
honest shilling making hand-signs, taking off his hat,
hitting his chest and frantically waving his ’kerchief is
liable to be run in as a lunatic.
* * * *
Third reading of M.L. tote-abolition bill was
carefully blocked, and the measure has now a very doubt-
ful living chance.
* * * *
. Maoriland “tote” investments increase yearly.
This year’s “National” figures are £4OOO in excess of
1895 s.
* * * *
The late George Davis, 3V1.L.C., was not quite
the shrewd, brainy racing-man that horse-reporters made
hnn out to be. He sold the hurdle-racers Emmalea and
hummerlea in ignorance of their real grit, and he held
much too high an opinion of Tim Swiveller's capabilities
in good company. Tim’s sensational victory in the Caul-
field Cup was, if not a fluke exactly, a thing'that couldn’t
have happened under ordinary circumstances for the same
event. Yet Davis believed the horse to be a real good
one, and backed him for two subsequent Melbourne Cups.
A rural crowd of books was recently milked in
a most cold-blooded way. A hurdler, pulling up appar-
ently lame, his owner interviewed the chief “ dead meat ”
merchant. After inspecting the corpse, bookie.success-
fully offered a consideration not to scratch. Well-backed
on the day the prad made one of five starters. One fell
and the “dead ’un” ran off. The other three baulked
persistently, however, until he puiled round and won
It was a peculiar rase,” remarked the local horse-re-
porter, but the victory was a popular one.”
* * * *
In one Collingwood tote-shop no less than 3270
shillings passed through the tote on the day of Buzzi’s
fines° lla ' " ln " onf ' ei lc - v can afford to pay r £lOO
(“ Sporting Notions ” continued on page 20.)


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST. -«
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
METROPOLITAN S.
15tla September.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Tq TATTEJtSALL.
Please allot lrje
the above,
Shares in
Name
Address
DEMONSTRATION H.
stb. October.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
the above.
Name.
Shares in
Address
MH
JSrSSM
MELBOURNE 0. 3rd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .
.Shares in the above.
Name.
Address
v
IP
Wm
CAULFIELD C.
17 th. October.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me „ ___ ■ Shares in
the above.
Name_
£,
Address
MELBOURNE 0.
3rd November.
100,000 Subscribers at 5«
To TATTERSALL.
*
Please allot roe ... .. . 'Shares in
the above.
Name . . .
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Mew Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
I 1 our per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000'
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
Ihe Bank has Agents in all tire principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities fot dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
P. T. J. PARFITT, Manager.
BTIHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Ltd.
Incorporated under the “ Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,607,635 011
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,750 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 142,364 19 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Arthur S. King, Esq., Chairman; John Grice,
Esc., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), wnth Brandies
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. VV. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
rnHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane,
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £369,230
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 300,000
RESERVE FUND .. 31,500
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Trustees, Executors, <1; Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £43,733 0 0
DIRECTORS : E. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer’
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estate, undertaken.
JAME« BORROW MAN, Manager.
EREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phcnix Insurance Company
OF LONDON.
Established over One Hundred and Fourteen Years.
CAPITAL ... ... ... £2,688,800
ANNUAL PREMIUMS (Nett) ... 1,120,789
FUNDS 1,439,194
Losses paid exceed £20,000,000.
Insurances effected on all classes of buildings
and contents at lowest rates.
Losses promptly and liberally settled.
Agents wanted in the city and country.
S. R. TRAILL, Attorney for N.S.W.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney.
CLARKE & CO.,
STOCK Ss SHAKE BROKERS,
309 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone No. 314. Melbourne.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.'W.
MONT DE PIETE
D, & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to £lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager,
—THE—
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Greek Street.
MELBOURNE, 00 Market Street.
T. J. GILPIN,
Member Ballarat Stock Exchange,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
MINING EXCHANGE ENTRANCE,
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £11,000,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,055,281 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., JI.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
. M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoort, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors : ffm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M’Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopsr/ute Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.”
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
. CAPITAL (Paid-up) 886,839 2 7
Directors:
Hon. F. H. Hart, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. Boyd D. More-
head, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir A. 11. Palmer, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ;
A. B. Webster, Esq.
Acting General Manager : Walter Vardon Ralston.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ;_ purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Claris:© Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
STOCK &. SHAREBROKERS,
Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide
(Late Australasia Chambers, King William St.).
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Stocks. Special attention given to business in Bank
Deposit-Receipts.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Jolm Eaegrefor
(Late Chairman Manufactures N.S.W. Commission),
Stock, Share, Finance and Companies
BROKER.
Office of the Austral Metallurgical, Bromo-C.vanide
Chlorinisation and Refractory Ores Reduction Works.
Assays and reports on Ores, etc.
Front Office! Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Telephone 1523. Code, Moreing and Neal. Cable I
address, Macgregor.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. COHEN, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.0.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors;
g?* w. p. Manning, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. O. B. Tiley, H. 11. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:-Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; F. 11.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital £3,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital 1,928,380 0 0
Reserved Fund 1,183,576 12 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. I Jas. Tiiomas Walker, Esq.
Robt. Campbell Close, Esq. | Charles Smith, Esq.
Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in. Tasmania, India and the East,
tlie United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on theirbehalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of Credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2o,{negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Sugar. Sugar. Sugar.
JOHN UVI RMS,
LAND AGENT,
HAVING secured large areas of virgin soil
situate in the CAIRNS DISTRICT, N.Q.,
specially adapted for growing Sugar, Coffee, and
other tropical products, and convenient to Mills
in course of erection under the Sugar Guarantee
Act, is prepared to treat with intending Investors
on Easy enns.
The lands offered compare advantageously with
those of Bundaberg or Mackay for important
reasons. Frost is unknown, damage from grub
nil, and the climate unsurpassed for the purposes
of such culture. To persons of small means this
opportunity should not be lost, as this industry
has been proved to be the best investment at pre-
sent offering in the colony.
Areas subdivided to suit purchasers. Hundreds
of Acres for Lease or Sale.
Enquiry courted and fullest particulars given
FREE.
r/ ohn Cairns,
Cairns, N.Q.
. Coffee. Coffee
Coffee,
IF. A. Kincfsbovough,
sha niciinoKi n.
8 Iloydl Exchange,
Adelaide.
£5O to NOTHING
The Proprietors of the Goldfields Courier,
Coolgardie, offer £5O to the first person selecting
the Winning Double of the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cujjs.
Coupon and conditions appear weekly in the
Courier, copies of which may be had post free
for 7d. in stamps of any colony.
EVERY WOMAN, Old, Young, Married, or Single,
will find HEALTH and HAPPINESS by using
LILY,” the new, registered
and bona-fide treatment for Female Complaints, call at
26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney. Lady in attendance.
3&3E ei, cil Ei, in e BLodney,
rpHE celebratedSclentific and Practical Palmist,
1 may be consulted either by LETTER or PERSONA LLY
at the
IMPERIAL ARCADE, Pitt-st., Sydney.
i'l
i/Rf
of all
I Survey,
MY VIRTUES there Is none
to dispute,
From the land all round
to the sea,
NO DISEASE will reign
over me.
AAA
RHEUMATISM
GRAVEL AND KIDNEY
COMPLAINTS
COLDS - - FEVERS
INFLUENZA
AAA
POSTED TO ANY PART OF THE
WORLD ON RECEIPT OF P. 0.0.
COLEMANE & SOSMS’
WORLD-FAMED
EUCALYPTE
The ONLY PURE in
the World.
.EXTRACT
Brawlin near Cootamundra
New South Wales
pnivmr'
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Set 22 JAPANESE, 9d.
„ 8 HELIGOLAND, Bd.
„ 12 ARGENTINE, 6d.
Best Variety in the Colonies.
Packets: 80 different, 6d.; 50, Is.;
100, 2s. 6d.; 150, 55.; 200, 10s. Many
very rare. All postage, 2d. extra.
Sheets on approval. Price list free.
Wm Ackland,
162 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Hotels.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar
Proprietor.
SALISBURY HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
Private Boarding Establishment.
(Within Three Minutes of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONfor Visitors. SPECIAL
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Tankard’s Family Hotel,
konsdale Street
(next Law Courts),
<fsm
*’v ,
ISErE^
MELBOURNE.
Under New Management. First-class BOARD and
RESIDENCE, £1 per week (Single Room); 4s. daily.
W. L. NEALE, Manager.
PHILLIPS’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL,
409 Lonsdale-street (near Queen-street),
MELBOURNE.
Good accommodation for Families, Ladies or Gentlemen
—from 18s. per week upwards.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in tlio World!
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theproduetion of thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUPPER PROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you'
Read this tetter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man eoual to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN PINTMENT.
How’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
How’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be takeij
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for aij
adult, smaller quantity for children.
Eor General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other niedicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skip diseases will finq
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE,
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. Eor
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Diver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1836.
Baron Berzilius’= —
-Buchn Bitters.
BARON BERZI LIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. —BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
‘‘ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
G ESI lON or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
1 hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
How’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANET WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD “ROW A CO.,
Sydney.


EAT AND DRUMK.
TAKE NOTICE I
There are many kinds of everything; but only
one is
THE BEST OF ITS KIND.
BILLY TEA
IS THE BEST TEA.
GRANUMA
IS THE BEST DIGESTIVE FOOD-
DRINK AND EAT.
Copies of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp
on “ Piles and How to Cure Them,” without
operation, by the great “Cannalin” treatment,
free on application. Depot for Australasia, 257
George Street, Sydney.*
Eno’s “Fruit Salt.” —A gentleman writes:
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ has acted
like a charm, when all other treatment failed. The
day is not far distant when the neglect of its use
in all fevers and diseases resulting from poisoned
blood will be considered criminal.” “I am very
pleased with your ‘Fruit Salt.’ I have fully
proved its great efficacy by its having entirely
cured me of indigestion.”—T. Wood, jun., Tudor
Road, Canterbury. Sold by all chemists and
stores.*
The first silk hat and perambulator have
arrived at Hannan’s.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest-
safest,. best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. Gd. everywhere.*
‘ ‘ Did you ever see the ‘ living pyramid ’
in the gymnasium 1 A number of men kneel
down and others kneel on them, and one stands on
the top and waves a little red flag. That is ordin-
ary ambition.” — Rev. Wade(N. Melb.).
fd
<3-0 TO ZEEIEDLiILi-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (HI.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Viudin & Co.),
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
WILL JERRY RYAN write to his mother,
Pike Lane, Alexandria. Last heard of
in Warra, Queensland.
IF this should meet the eye of EDWARD
BOYLE, cattle-drover, last heard from Tran-
gie, 1895, his daughter, Mrs. James O’Reilly, will
have somethin r/ to his advantage to communicate.
Grong Grong P.O.
“ "PERRIER’S ” World-renouned TOILET
* PREPARATIONS
Have stood the test of years, and still command an
enormous sale in London and Paris. Used by all promi-
nent Society ladies. Can be obtained in Sydney at fol-
lowing prices (post-free) Pearline, 5/ ; Skin Tonic, 3/6 ;
Bloom of Peagiif.s, 2,6; Freckle Cream, 4/6; &c., &c.
Send stamped envelope for Catalogue. “FERRIER”
TOTLET SPECIALITY CO., Box 1076, G.P.O.
Sporting.
W. W. GREENER’S
CELEBRATED
guns g|i Rifles
Can now be purchased
through all the princi-
pal dealers in the Aus-
tralasian colonies.
Genuine.—W. W.
Greener’sGuns undoubtedly
hold the unrivalled position
of being absolutely the best
—for Hard - bittihg Quali-
ties, Pattern, Penetration,
Strength, Easy Handling,
Safety, Honest Workman-
ship and Beauty. Address:
hdf
C. W. Bkckland, 10 (Jurral Road, Elsternwick, Melbourne
(Victorian representative); or Box 326, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
.393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
CYCLE SUPPLIEBS
To His Excellency Lord Hampden.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
—FOR THE—
World-renowned HUMBERS, PREMIERS, ete.
W. J. O. ELLIOTT, Manager.
The BEST T9XE
for Cycles
IS THB»
DIDLOr WE.
IT IS GUARANTEED
FOR
TWELVE MONTHS,
CYCLISTS . .
Call or Write J. M. MAUD, 67 Liverpool
street, SYDNEY, for
The FAMOUS
flcne Bicycle.
Price, <£l6los. to <£22 10s. Guaranteed for One
Yf xr. Repairs a Speciality.
f/X.
>\\W/
/n
igpeps
Here’s where we give you some good advice,
Get value for what you pay—
You can’t buy a Red Bird at any old price,
Because they’re not built that way.
Manufactured by
The Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—
G 4 King Street, Sydney, N. S. TF.
Factories at Brantford, Toronto, Montreal, St. John
Winnipeg', Canada. Agents wanted everywhere.
D O WRID GE'S (late of Brisbane)
Monster Consultations*
25,000
Caulfield C.
Run October 17.
at
Melbourne C
Run November 3.
50,000 at
Six Years before the Australian Public,
iW £21,537 6s. DISTRIBUTED during 18S
New Address: ELDON CHAMBERS,
16 Elizaboth-st., Hobart, Tasmania.
Renowned Physicians, and even the public .-are
so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S '
91ATICO
That the afflicted need not hesitate to use it
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young men. Grimault’s 1
Liquid Matico and Capsules don’t cause
stricture.
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Missing Friends. '
WILLIAM MORGAN, formerly of Knocka-
taggle, Kilcummin, Killarney, Ireland,
or (if dead) his next op kin are requested, to com-
municate with Messieurs a’BECKETT & HOR-
ROCKS, Solicitors, Sydney, or with E. ,T
DOWNING, Solicitor, Killarney. ENTITLED
TO SHARE in deceased Estate, Reward,
for Proof of Death.
PYRALICIDE!
For ,ilie PREVENTION arid ERADICATION
of
if)
WOOLLY APHIS &. ROOT FUNGUS.
Write for Pamphlet.
Result of Trials—loo Trees treated, no Moth ; 1 Tree not
treated, full of Moth.
Price : 1 Gallon, 5/6 ; 2 Gals., 10'- ; 4 Gals., 17 6
One Gallon doe. 3 25 Trees.
Agents:
SHIRLEY, CLAYTON & CO.,
52 and 54 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Voleur's Original Celebrated Toilet Tteceipes.
Thousands sold annually in London and Paris.
"pVERY refined Lady should possess one, information
-* J ihvdlliable for inexpensive home treatment of
Complexion, Hands, Freckles, Wrinkles, Teeth, Grey Hair,
Eye-lashes, &c., &c., an easy method of becoming
beautiful and remaining so ! Price, 2s. 6d. ; post free.
Box 1076, G.P.0.,. SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
PECIAL CHEAP EXCURSIONS
TO THE COUNTRY.
SEPTEMBER, 189 G.
TICKETS AT SPECIALLY LOW FARES
will be issued at Sydney and Suburban Stations
to the country by Special Trains leaving Sydney
as under :
TO THE WESTERN LINE, TUESDAY,
Bth SEPTEMBER.
Available for return by ordinary trains up to
and including WEDNESDAY, 23rd September.
To the NORTHERN and NORTH-WESTERN
LINES, WEDNESDAY, 9tli SEPTEMBER.
Tickets at proportionately low rates will also be
issued at Newcastle to the country by this train.
Available for return by ordinary trains up to
and including THURSDAY, 24th September.
To all SOUTHERN BRANCH Line Stations ;
also Harefield, Bomen, Uranquinty, Bon Accord,
Henty, Tabletop, and Ettainoggah by under-
mentioned train :
WEDNESDAY, 9th SEPTEMBER.
Available for return by ordinary trains (Express
excepted) up to and including THURSDAY,
24th September.
Passengers for stations bn the Culcairn-Corowa
Branch will leave Sydney by 5.15 p.m. Express
on WEDNESDAY, 9th September, and change
at Culcairn.
To all SOUTHERN MAIN LINE stations,
Menangle to Junee Junction inclusive, and also to
Wagga, The Rock, Yerong Creek, Culcairn, Gero-
gery, and Albury, by Special Train, as under :
Thursday, 10th September.
Available for return by ordinary trains (express
excepted) up to and including THURSDAY,
24th September.
To the SOUTH COAST LINE, FRIDAY,
11th SEPTEMBER.
Available for return by all trains up to and
including FRIDAY, 25th September, 189 G.
Fares between Sydney and other stations
arranged at proportionately low rates.
A.J.C. SPRING RACE MEETING.
RETURN TICKETS at specially low rates
will also be issued to Sydney from all stations by
train leaving Jennings at 5.35 a.m., Bourke at
7-50 a.m., and from Southern Branch Line stations
on Thursday, 10th September ; Nowra, 2.30 p.m.,
Shellharbour, 2.45 p.m., and Southern Main Line
stations (ex Albury 6.30 a.m. and Goulburn 3.45
p.m.)«Gtti Friday, 11th September.
RETURN TICKETS at TWOPENCE per
Mile First-class (minimum 10s.) and ONE
PENNY per Mile Second-class (minimum 55.)
will also ibe issued from Stations on the Southern
Line and Branches to Stations between Goulburn
and Mittagoiag inclusive, and from Stations on the
Western Liaae and Branches beyond Bowenfels to
Stations between Bowenfels and Emu Plains in-
clusive, by the above trains.
These Tickets will only be available on the out-
ward journey by the trains named, but passengers
can return from Sydney by ordinary trains (Mel-
bourne Express excepted) on any date up to and
including FRIDAY, 25th SEPTEMBER.
Passengers from the Corowa Branch Line can
return from Sydney by the 5.15 p.m. Express on
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays up to FRI-
DAY, 25th SEPTEMBER.
Handbills and further particulars can be ob-
tained from all Stationmasters, and at the Central
Booking Office, Geoiga-street, Sydney.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. McLACHLAN, Secretary.
K. : The only way to stop roping—when the
Stewards smell anything nasty, let them take the stiff’un
off at the last moment, and put up a jock retained by the
club.” But how would this suit the books of betting
stewards?
* * * *
’Spite all efforts, racing languishes at Broken
Hill, and almost every meeting results in a loss. But a
proposal to form a course just over the S.A. border at
Cockburn, 34 miles from the Hill, is taken up enthusiasti-
cally—and the meetings will boom. All because the tote
can be used there. Yet they say that the machine cruels
racing ? Meanwhile, the efforts to keep the sport going at
Broken Hill itself are practically abandoned.
* * * *
Gov. Brassey develops turfy tendencies in a
mild degree. He talks of his forthcoming trip to Sydney
in September as “ going over for the races.”
* + * *
The breeding of Saddle-Up, by Mana-Ddloii
inare, is not attractive, and the same negative objection
applies to Excel, another Melbourne horse that has lately
been “ starring ” among less-seasoned performers. Any-
way, it is early to think of these winter blossoms for the
big spring handicaps.
* * * *
The Australian starting-machine makes rapid
American headway.
* * * *
The “ confidential man ” of a very prominent
Australian racing-stable is shadowed like a suspected
person when an event is approaching. Until the owners
have got their money on he is kept an absolute prisoner
and is not allowed to stir beyond defined limits. All his
outward correspondence is also carefully examined.
* * * *
Babel’s 13st. 71b. in a flat race at Longreach (Q.)
is a record. And 28 were nominated. Longreach, by the
way, is the only place in Australia where the flat minimum
is 7.7 —a stone higher than usual.
* * * *
Defunct Nordenfeldt’s place in Mr. S. Hordern’s
stud is to be filled by the St. Simon horse, Hautbrion, a
fair performer ; but he never justified his 5000 gs. valua-
tion as a yearling.
* * * •
Estimated that 320 racers and 220 ponies are
now in training in Sydney metropolis. A costly crowd for
the public to keep in oats.
* * * *
In an easily-picked galloway race lately the
favorite’s rider suddenly said—“ Hang it! My whip’s
dropped.” “ Here ! take mine,” eagerly yelled three
spider pilots simultaneously as they rounded the turn for
home. “ Always do a cove a good turn when you can.”
* * * *
The system under which Sydney papers publish
starting prices appears to require revision. Some books
quote different figures, and the papers are seldom
unanimous. Of course, stay-at-home s.p. backers are
always paid on the shortest quotation in the case of
winners.
* * * *
“If you only have one horse and want to make a
coup you must ‘wait,’” said a racing-man the other day,
when talking turf reform. “I had a prad once, trained
him myself, and waited six months. Of course, I was
following another business. Backed from tens downwards,
he landed me the pool of my life. My house, land, and
section adjoining, came from the proceeds. Yes, he
wasn’t a bad horse. It was the only race he ever tried
for. That’s him there in the buggy.'
• * • •
In 13 out of 18 Caulfield Cups the winners have
■carried less than Bst. It is time another Westminster,
Torn Kirk, Culma, or Paris came along.
*** b *
The steady tug-of-war between the V.R.C. and
the Flemington and Essendon people, with regard to the
closure of Flemington racecourse for pedestrians, yet
continues. The local bodies have just emphatically put
their feet down, and there is a deadlock. It has often
■been pointed out how Byron Moore sneaks up to charging
for admission on race-days.
* * * *
S.A. Advertiser, the other day, contained a
horse-for-sale advt., ending thus, “ Reason selling, no
■use.”
* * * *
A Sydney jock, put off by many promises,
stalked into a pony-owner’s house, the other day, with a
limb of a tree and demanded settlement of an old debt.
He was unsuccessful, but wheedled out of the terror-
stricken sport an old saddle, 55., meerschaum pipe and a
ticket in Tatt.’s sweep. Opening the alleged ticket later
■he found it was a written cure for corns.
* * * *
A Maori with limited ideas about horse-produc-
tion sent his old draught to a blood stallion to secure a
“ racer.” Some time afterwards he wrote the owner of
the sire : “That foie him no tam good. He killed by
lightnin’. Me send horse again. Me no want grey foie
thish time. Kapai bay allee same Carbine.”
* * * *
A Sydney pawnbroker tells of a woman who
tearfully implored an advance of 2s. 6d. on an old brooch.
He cut her down to Is. 3d., though she went on her knees
and said the half-crown would keep her children from
starving for a week. “ Man’s inhumanity to man,” &c.
Two hours afterwards he saw her betting in thripennys
■outside a pony course gate, where colleetion-plate layers
■do biz. on race-days.
• • • •
A leading cross-country jockey is reported to be
■slowly dying from the effects of croton oil, taken to reduce
weight.
* * * *
A Victorian horse that has not yet appeared in
public is greatly fancied for the next V.R.C. Derby by his
shrewd “ stable.” All things considered, punters should
wait another couple of months before rushing in to back
Newhaven and Coil.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —One unlucky drawer of ahorse
in Tatt.’s sweep on the Spring Handicap wired the gilded
■owner £lOOO to 0. He replied demanding one-third of the
prize for first, second, or third place.' This profitable
branch of the racehorse industry badly needs lopping.
To do this Tattersall Adams should swear off telegrams
and let his clients discover their luck through the ordin-
ary “ result slip.” Under the present system, horse-
owners are aware that drawers of their horses have been
'notified,- and calmly await the usual wire offering a third
•of the prize, failing which, they “don’t intend to start.”—
.Blackmail.
* * * *
Mr. C. M. Lloyd thought it was despising for-
'tune’s favors to keep Newhaven at home, and the chest-
nut idol crosses over through his intervention. Distant
fields are green, but the Randwick fields this month won’t
race as green as they look.
* * * *
Hordern’s ambition to follow in the winning
■steps of the late James White has been unrealised so far,
■despite a big string. The stable is unrepresented in
A.J.C. Derby, its half-a-dozen entrants having proved
below standard.
* * * »
The M.L. trio now located at Randwick Coach
and Horses should infuse some life into forthcoming stick
events. Mentor Hope rode the M.L. G.N. Steeple winner
the other day. Hope and Clark have secured this coveted
event thrice each in six successive years.
Toreador’s daily gallops don’t excite much en-
thusiasm. The Skipper appears to be more forward, and
may be the stable’s special weakness in the Metrop.
* * * *
The death of the noted three-quarter, Madigan,
makes the sixth decease in the Maori-England team.
Nearly all from consumption.
* * *
The United Australasian Axemen’s Association
bills its sixth annual contest of chopping and sawing, at
Latrobe (Tas.), for Novi 9. Prizesi £4OO. >
* ♦ * *
From an old Sydney file (Dec. 8, 1845): —“At
the ‘ Woolpack,’ Petersham, a wager was made that a man
would go one mile without touching the ground, and
would not be drawn or ride. It was accomplished on a
bicycle.” The “Woolpack” was on Parramatta Road,
Petersham, next to the old stock-yards, recently demol-
ished. The old hotel stands to-day in the form of a
rambling private cottage, and the old wooden water-
trough is stowed away in the backyard.
* * * *
Rupert Guinness, son and heir of the Dublin
stout brewer, won the amateur sculling championship at
Henley Regatta. Rupert is said to be a splendidly-built
fellow; but not clevah.
* * * •
A “Captain Cooker” yarn. Nelson CioLO-
Nist reports that a party of three secured in one day 26
\Vild pigs. One df the sportsmen, getting three iii a lirje,
fired at the nearest With a Martini-Henry rifle. The bullet
passed through the afiiirial behind the shouldei, through
a second ofle about tile sanfe place, and brdltb thehilid leg
of the third one, thus killihg twd outfight atld sd severely
Wounding anothef that it Could fidt escape:
Pugilist “Bob” Fittfsiittnidiis lias beeh doi.tig
Daniel in the lions’ den in the States. lie Was pfactising
With a Chained lioh on the flat fddf df a gymnasium at
Cleveland, Ohio, When the beast’s Chain accidentally
scraped the insulating off an electric Wife-. The lion got a
terrific shock, and in its agony got tile chain across Hob’s
legs. The current burned him badly. The lion then
jumped off the roof and suicided by hanging.
* * * *
Brisbane Commercial Rowing Club has had very
watery luck. In ’9O, a good flood swept away their shed.
Three years later, another shattered £5OO worth. Then
the hulk Beatrice was secured, and converted into a sort
of Noah's Ark. She went to the bottom a fortnight ago.
The cheerful members are now raising funds for a build--
ing which all the floods in a decade won’t shift.
* * • •
At a rabbit-coursing match at Windsor (N.8.W.)
a hot favorite was put out in the final by a scrubby out-
sider. Then a protest was lodged against the winner
because he had a long tail. And the committee upheld.
* * * *
The “false rail ” at Caulfield, intended to pre-
vent crowding on the inside of the turn into the straight,
has exceeded its purpose by causing the horses to"get
hunched on the outside, and the V.A.T.C. committee has
taken the safeguard down for fear of accidents. A milder
form of Mat. O’Shanassy’s remedy will probably be intro-
duced after further consideration. The idea of widening
the curve, so to speak, without widening the course seems
rather Irish ; also the wisdom of fixing a false rail, instead
of shifting the original inside rail, is not quite clear. But,
seeing that something ought to be done at Caulfield, the
recent experiment deserves an effort to improve upon it.£
* * * *
W. R. Wilson, The Bulletin fancies, will have
something better than Nada for the Melbourne Cup. All
the same, the mare is likely to win a race at Randwick.
* * * *
Six-year-old Malula, Marusa—Maluma, Mal-
volio’s brother, winner of Mentone (Vic.) Handicap,
should have a big say in Caulfield Cup with only 7st.
* * * *
M.L. Govt, is further curtailing tote permits,
the big metropolitans being granted four instead of five.
Compared with overdone Sydney, even five meetings a
year seems a mere grain of salt in a bag.
* * * *
In 1889, vet. surgeon Dunlop, of Belfast (Ire-
land), meeting his son on a boneshaker and fearing for his
spine, wrapped a piece of garden hose round the wheel
and fastened the end with melted rubber and glue. Next
week he smelt a fortune, and the Dunlop tyre was
evolved.
* * * *
The other day in Charters Towers a horse bolted
with a dog-cart. Two of the occupants were thrown out,
the third, a boy, being left alone in the trap. A woman,
seeing the danger of the child, rushed into the street,
seized a billet of wood, dealt the horse a blow that laid
him out insensible on the roadway, saved the child, and
walked away quietly unconscious of having done anything
remarkable. Was it not said of Abimelech— ■“ A woman
slew him ” ?
* * * *
A month is the maximum period for which stiff
ponies are “ rubbed out” on the Melb. courses. Were it
made any longer they couldn’t breed ponies enough to
keep the sport going.
* * * *
Dan O’Brien got rid of his ghostly spirit of bad
luck Saturday, when Patriot, Cronnvell up, smothered a
long-drawn-out juvenile field. The racy-looking young-
ster is another of Autonomy’s, and is a likely Mari-
byrnong Plater.


STEWART DAWSON & CO S
Specialties suitable for Wedding & Birthday Presents.
The Greatest Show in Australasia at our Sydney Establishment.
No, 3d A —Gold Brooch, Now Design, lis. 6d,
S.V
•mo*
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, A 2 2a.
Ml i Ilf(m
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, l7s. Cd,
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonda, Sapphires, 15 53.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISIT. s'
BJin. by 4in., £2 7a. 6d.
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, £55.
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
No. 590.—15 ct. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10a.
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10a.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistio
design, Amethyst and Oct. Gold, 18a. 6d.
m
Bi
Keyles3 HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s. ; f-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
Fine White Diamond]
18cfc. Gold, £lO 103.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7l7s. 6d. ~
ftolid, Silver-mount,,, u iteai ‘x'ortoishell COMB,
Z%m., £1 Is.
Lac Lea ALBERT, 9cc. Gold, £2 25.; loot. Gold, £3 15&.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15ct., £llos.
. Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ BING,
1 Diamond, 2 Bubies,
18cfc. Gold, £2.
16ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
Buckle BRACELET, 9ct. Gold, £1 12s. 6d.
very Elegant fine Diavnon 1 BRACELET, i 45»
This design in smaller sizts, from £2O,
am
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes—loin., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s.; 14in., £3 ss.
Elegant Oct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
m
$ V
im
■ R
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Half-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold, £8 10s.
4 Diamonds, 3 fine
Sapphires, 18ct. Gold,
£6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
Ladies’ ALBEIIT, 9et. Gold, £2; 15ct, £3 10s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles,
Ivory Points, BJ4in., £1 2s. 6d.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, ±1 Is. j
15ct. Gold, £ll7s. 6d
Silver, ss. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £4 10s.
_lscfc. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 ss.
Oct. Gold Brooch, Bs. t'd. Silver, 2s. (id.
m
i*3i
m
m
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
by £s 17s. 6d.
m
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
No. 589.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pearls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 6s
m
o
Elegant Diamond STAR, 150. Similar sizes at
ISO to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d.
No. sS7.—Gold BROOCH, New Design,’l6s. 6d.
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s. ;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9cfc. Gold. £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15cfc. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
9ct. Gold, £1155.; 15cfc. Gold, £3 ss.
SIZES.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance.
NOTE.—The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE, and NOVELTIES
Over Twenty thousand Pounds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishment is a complete constellation of brilliancy and
of UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound...
Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
SUITABLE FOR. PRESENTS, have never been approached,
a panorama of artistic show. Everything NEW, ELEGANT, and
412 George-street, and Strand, Sydney, JNT.S.W.


Health and Strength
RESTORED
.BY THE USE OF
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. Gumming, of Yarraville,
Victoria, Australia, Says:
“About a year ago, I had a severe
attack of Influenza, which left me
very weak, without energy, appe-
tite, or interest in life. Obtaining
little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recom-
mended to me, I finally tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and from that time,
began to gain health and strength,
I continued the treatment until
fully recovered, and now have very
great pleasure in telling my friends
of the merits of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its lise. 1
consider it the best blood-purifier
known.”
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
fIVCP’Q PH I Q for Constipation
H I LSI u iILLO and Biliousness*
Sugar-Coated, Mild but Effective
iELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIft’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., Ltd.; Australian Drug Co.
Ohn Connell &Co., Ltd.
BE A TJTIF UE EL O WEBS
—AT—
SEARL’S,
SYDNEY’S YLOBISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto haa
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.—Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal.— E. LENTHALL
OLDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria.”
Education is spreading to the Australian
black brudden One of him pleaded guilty at
Wollongong (T*;S.W.)j the other day; to forgery
atid utteriiig. True* he Was Only & haif-cftste; and
perhaps it Was iti the white blood of him. .
The nomination of the American Demo-
cratic candidate for the Presidency seems to have
been based chiefly on. wind. This sort of bi-metal
talk : “ You shall not set on the brow of labor a
crown of thorns ; you shall not crucify mankind
on a cross of gold.”
‘ ‘ I can’t help stealing, your worship ; I
have to take everything I see that I fancy,” said a
Sydney woman whose vogue appeared to be to
“ take lodgings ” and to walk off with portable
valuables. But kleptomania is only a recognised
luxury for the rich and influential.
Sandwich men are out-bye-lawed in Melb.
One was fined the other day for appearing in
Bourke-st., as one item in the rivalries of three
local bootmakers calling themselves Sir William
Olive, Sir Thomas Olive, and Lord Clinton.
These humorists presumably mean by their as-
sumption of rank that all snobs should be en-
ilobbled.
, Ed. Bulletin, — lie black-cockatoo’s egg—-
Van Demon’s “roc’s egg amongst collectors.”
The black cockatoo “nests” in March; all other
N.S.W. birds from Aug. to Nov. Few collectors
know this, but to those that do the b.c.’s egg is
not the “ roc’s egg.” I have taken several nests,
each one in March. They nest in the hollow of a
tree, and only lay one egg. During 18 years’ col-
lecting, my “ roc’s egg ” has been that of the jack-
snipe (not the oft-mistaken painted-snipe). Can
any of your readers, &c. ’—Leslie M. Oakes,
Parramatta.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION. _
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dear Bulletin, —Your par. referring to
G-. W. Rusden recalls a Brisbane incident of some
years ago, and illustrates to perfection how his-
tory is made. At the time Gfresley Lukin, that
good friend of writers, ran the Couriek and
Queenslander, and the late Carl Feilberg was
the leader-writer. Lukin, actuated by humanity
and the fact that there was a dearth of local
topics, thought it a good opportunity to bring for-
ward the treatment of the‘blacks 'in the outside
country. The subject “took”; Feilberg wrote
the leaders and I answered them under "a pen-
name in_ lengthy letters-, posing as “the blood-
thirsty pioneer.” Feilberg and I used to discuss
the matter beforehand, as to what I should write,
on which he could found a good leader in reply.
Considering that I have always Written (under my
own name) advocating the forming of reserves for
the natives, and the exclusion 'of all Whites front
within the reserve boundaries, as the ohly ineahs
of prolonging the existence bf the race,' I Was
extremely amused when I read Rusden’s history
and found the whole Queenslander correspond-
ence gravely and seriously quoted with tlie follow-
ing remarks appended : —
Who shall say that .Swift's description of his couhtrv-
inen, as a pernicious race of ddiohs v'erinin Suffered id
brawl upon the surface of the earth, Would have heeii
hyperbolic if th’ey Were as Worthy of it as the Queens-
correspondent. In A foreign land his letter might
eVeh seen! a veiled satire upon the system professc'diy
‘extolled. But iii Queensland the sincerity of the writer
Was knowh and he Was hot without admirers. To such
base uses may the product of modern civilisation be re-
duced When exempt from the chastening influence of reli-
gion and of a Well-ordered society.
Alas ! I was the product of modern civilisation.—
Delcomyn.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
The most beautifying, soothing, healing, and refreshing
milk for the skin ever produced ; it removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness, and Roughness, soothes and
heals all irritation, and produces soft, fair, delicate skin;
and a beautifully pure and healthy complexion. War-
ranted harmless.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL
Nourishes, Preserves, and Beautifies the Hair.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA,
A Pure Toilet Powder in three tints—White, Rose, and
Cream.
Ask Chemists and Stores for Rowlands' articles, of
20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid cheap poisonous
imitations.
Spring
NOW is the TIME to DO UP
Your HOUSES.
is
Send for Samples and Quotations
Coming.
H. H. GROTH * CO.,
Oil, Colot' and Glass Merchants,
PAPERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE,
Winsor & Newton’s Artists’ Material Depot,
PICTURES & PICTURE MOULDINGS.
529 George Street (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
20
124
1208
403
126
- Aj
125
127
234
078
50
57
&
4?
%
B 2
.
- —THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe. Co;, Ltd i;
658 Greo'rgei S treei,
Sydney,
Make the
. Sweetest & Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE-
MARK
'<Sjs9\W)
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A USTIiA Ll J St
A EE PEE WOO J)
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 120, 127,
50, 57, 234 —3/8 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207—■
4/6 each.
Case of 3 pipes, 22/0
Case of 2 pipes, 13/0
L 1207, 7/0 1550, 7/0
THESE PIPES MAY P,E HAD FROM
NEW ZEALAND—
Messrs. Sarirnnd, Son, & Ewan, Dunedin & Wellington.
A. Beaver & Co., Dunedin.
Davies & Lamb, Oln Dtoburch.
D. D. Hj de & Co., Wellington.
VICTORIA—
Mr. M. A. Alexander, SS Elizabeth struct and i 7 Swan-
stnii-sfreet, Melhourue.
BRISBANE-Messrs. A. M. IlertzlrTc & On., Brisbane, Q.
WESTIIALIA 51 ssrs. Sanders & Nathan, IVi tli.
ip
rHr Celebrated
(a im ROMS
of Story* Clark!
CHICAGO.
Send for PRICE LIST.
ELB<
NIE.
■
Sole ‘Agent for -
BESSON *C°- S -
CELEBRATED
PROTOTYPE BRASS
BAND INSTRUMENTS
as used by the
PREMIER BANDS-
aII over the world.--
m
mm
SI
si
EL
w m
HIE
6 Plum ’
H £ p7
1 *
Plum
(IE NTL E M ElSl who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Wo
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy sh.ive, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for j['wo Years.
Price j |! n^ e aSSOr > strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2ls.
(.single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any oj the Austinlian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEM, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
ASK ANYBODY—even our competitors—arid they \vill tell
yon that VA IVOLINE CYLINDER and
ENGINE OILS are the STANDARD of LUBRI-
CATING OILS.
Other makers have imitated the word VdlvoliflG very closely,
so be sure that EVERY^PACKAGE bears
the following Trade-Mark,
FERDBIAU & CO.
Sole Agents,
3
hdf
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
rot O T 3MC0J3.03T ror* You i
Perhaps a Fortune awaits you, or an Income for life, or, if you are content to earn a few pounds
occasional, easily and honestly, we will send you something by means of which you may acquire
either. It will not only please and astonish you, hut will start you on the “Royal Road To
Wealth,’’ as it lias done to thousands in Europe and America. Send postal note for Haifa
Crown and you will receive by return post full value for your outlay, satisfaction guaranteed
This is a genuine announcement: No humbug, or catchpenny fraud. Send at once if vou desire tn
become rich —Address —C. Smith & Co., 264 Russell St.,' Melbourne.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD f<h>
INFANTS
#
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and The Australian
Drug Co,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food' has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.


u
: ■
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HIEIHBAL
ALFALINE REMEDIES
(Registered)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and Xerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES, BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OYER 10 YEARS,
AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
List of the Alfaline Remedies
Vitality Restored
ALFALINE
VITALITY FILLS
Arc the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Austra-
lian public for many years, and stood a test which
may well be envied by all other manufacturers of
similar remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bility, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alf aline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills—l/- 3/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Special Double course,
43/6 ; ordinary course, 23/6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
and 3/-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—Boxes, 23/6,
12 -, 6/-, and 3/-.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43,6, 23/6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder-Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Injection Powder— Cures the Whites.
Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—Boxes, 6/- and
3/-.
Alialine Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, l/- and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 1/6
Alfaline Bath Tablets -Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lates the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/-; posted, 1/6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, Sec., Sec.
Blood Purified
ALPALINE
LOCK CUKE PILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonio*
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It is not the usual MerOury remedy,
but a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALFALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint be im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rassmussen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices.—With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/-
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
Important. address your letters to
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to hia
Head Office : 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus —PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
WARNING.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should
always'obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlet
sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or to his Branches.
Selected Testimonials
Nerves Cured
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, I consider you are deserving of success,
wnicb I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmusskn.— Dear Sir,— l think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use.—Yours, R. A. LUCRHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Hebe Rassmusskn,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wist Fulfilled.
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herb Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly,
N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured,
—
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen,
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for sik
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A,
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W. A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year of 18711 was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills; since then I have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
Witness: Edward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness: John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
A. Valuable Free Book.
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuablf
information, and many useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality, as well as
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will ba
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of testi-
monials, as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office
547 George St., Svdnev.
AND AT HIS INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES
Melbourne: 150 Bourlce Street
Adelaide: 151 Bundle Street
Brisbane: 160 Queen Street
N-Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
West Australia: Corner Hay and William Streets , Perth.


Business Announcements
iUodalla Cheese
The finest in the market. Our Registered
Brand is on every Cheese.
Bodalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
Bodalla Hams
In get-up and quality are equal to the best
English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
• BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY*
immiimiiiimiiii-
MACKILL’S
ASTHMA CURE
THE ORIGINAL, SCOTCH CURE.
A Perfect Remedy fok
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, SHORTNESS OF
BREATH, HAY FEVER, INFLUENZA.
Unrivalled In giving Instantaneous Relief,
followed by a Permanent Cure. Thousands of
letters testify to its excellent qualities.
Insist on MACKILL'S CUKE. Refuse Imitations.
Of all Chemists, everywhere, in Tins.
jjSAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
(McyißllgL
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Is. and 2s. 6d.
M BEETHAWI & SON, Chemists,
Cheltenham, Eng land.
FELTON, GRIM WADE * Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
ft Pleasure to J'Se
«
IRES
GR>
PRIMPING
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades.
HEAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUND
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garref.fc
& Co., London, \V.
CASGARA HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEB CICARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Tonic Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse's Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
THE LAST OP SIX, and other Stories, by
Eenest Pavenc ; Is. 3d. posted.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Juft Harry Jticlcards’s Neiv Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
00 lligii-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
■JIIIE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Geo. Rignold.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING!
Mr. G-eo. Rignold
-in-
Mr. GEORGE R. SIMS’ GREAT DRAMA,
“ Ti?c Ronpafyy Rye.”
PRICES—3s., 25., Is., and 6d. Early' Door 6d. extra.
Plan at Glen’s. Day Tickets at Bentwick’s.
YOUNG LADY, speaking French, leaving for
London about December, would give ser-
vices for Free Passage. London, care of Gordon
and Gotch, Melbourne,
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Hodson.
EVERY EVENING (at 7.45 sharp) EVERY EVENING
will be repeated the great sensational drama,
-** TK.TTE « as S-X-lESTHJL..”
(By arrangement with Mr. VV. J. Holloway.)
Instantaneous success of Mr. CHARLES lIOLLOWAY,
supported hy an entirely NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Admission—3s, 2s Gd, 2s, Is, and 6d. Box Plan at
Nicholson’s. Ernest Blackstone, Acting Manager.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson and
Musgrove.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, September 3 and 4,
“Tfaf School for S^ai^daS.”
FRIDAY AFTERNOON—“ CAMILLE.”
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co’s and A. Hordern & Sons’,
Haymarket. Prices as Usual. Day Tickets at Adams’.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNE Y.
A Lessee and Manager .. Bland Holt.
SATURDAY (sth SEPTEMBER) SATURDAY
return of
BLAND HOLT
and his Premier Dramatic Organisation, when will be
presented the great up-to-date sporting drama,
Prodigal PaCsg^tfr.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Elvy and‘Co’s
AUSTRALIAN TALES,
** By MARCUS CLARKE. Price 2'-, postage 4d.
APPLY: Mrs. Marciis Clarke, lIIIIJIOIIICNG.
“The greatest literary genius of Australia.” —Mark Twain.
gCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE
The SOLE AGENCY for these
beautiful instruments was secured by
our Mr. Nicholson during his recent
visit to Europe.
CASH or on EASY TERMS.
Catalogues and Price Lists Gratis on application,
iF’Jhi-ErS.TJO:.
lEB3FSL IS 3ES iUXTE.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
h
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
(Under Roya! Patronage.)
Contains Over 200 Apartments, Furnished with Sll
Modern Luxury.. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the mjjlst ofthe Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF,
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
JAMES BAILEY, M.P., Managing Director.
Ghi3k.S COOKBUS.
THE
“€(ireka” 6aS Cooker
CAN NOW BE OBTAINED PROM THE
AUSTRALIAN GASLIGHT COMPANY
By payment of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly until paid off. If Gas is in the room
the Cooker will be connected FREE OF COST to the Consumer.
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT ALLOWED FOR CASH PURCHASES.
I'll E E COOKERY LECTURES in Company’s Show Room, Hay market,
Sydney, every WEDNESDAY Afternoon, at 230 p m.
Amusements.
JJRINCESS’S THEATRE MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING I
Hon. Chas. H. Hoyt’s Musical Farce Comedy,
“A Trip to C[)iQatoWQ.”
Latest, Brightest, Merriest and Funniest.
Bex Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
fdh
fd
/-THE- 7
Ballet Girl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting- her
Theatrical and Domes-
tic life, and what she
does after the opera.
Post Free 1/ .
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 16. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application.
Business Announcements.
Whiteley’s
800 tyarcbe
(near the CYCLOKAMA)
—WILL BE—
opii oo min.
RUPTURE.
T zoo. xm e cl i cl t e 3FB. elief.
PRACTICAL 11KKNIA EXPERTS.
BRITISH SCIENTIFIC TRUSS COMPANY,
{ST" (Take Iho Lift Pitt-street Entrance)
STRAND ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Write for particulars.
IWUSIH IN THE HOUSE MAKES
GHEEftFUL HAPPY HOMES.
PATENT
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celcstal Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
the soul-stirring Hymn, the cheer-
fill Song, anti the Merry Dance, can all be played on these
charming Instruments. No knowledge of Music Lequiuld.
A Useful and Pretty Present. Enormous Demand.
200,030 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Readers of the
’'Sydney Bulletin."
CampbeU’s “Gem” Melodeon price only 10/6
Campball’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22 6
Cut out this and send P. 0.0, 'or the amount.
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privile e Price List for Musical Season IS9G, now ready,
100 000 of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Send to
CAMPBELL & CO., Musical Instrument M akers,
116 Trongate, GLASGOW. Est. 00 Years, Agents Wanted-,
Spring BOds Ijayc BOrst
at Hark Foy*
A Riot of LoVeliocSs.
■osprizes CHARITY FETE and ART UNION .“snubs
IN AID OF EXISTING CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS.
First Frize, ‘LIE»F” Fiano, val/cie £65. Tickets, OINTS SHILLING.
Fioal Co*K€rt ai)d Prawiog for Prizes
S. J. LAW, M.L.A., Chairman,
J Under the Patronage ot His Excellency
I the Governor, Lord HAMPDEN.
J. SIDNEY and T, J. lIOUOHTON, lion. Treaa.
Towo Hall, Sydpcy, Saturday, stb September, 1896,
A. S. GORDON, General Secretary, 6 Temperance Hall, Pitt-street.


Business Announcement.
LATEST
PINCE-NEZ
GREENFIELD
BARRACLQUGH/
Self-Test Eyesight Measure.
YST'E have invented a little measure to enable RESI-
Ty DENTS in the COUNTRY to obtain correctly-
fitting’ Spectacles. On application it will be sent, by post,
with full instructions to any address. Write to us.
Greenfield & Jtarraelougli, Spectacle Makers,
371 George Street, Sydney.
PULVERMACHER
WORLD FAMED
GALVANIC BELTS
Cure nervous Weakness & brain Fag,
Cure Rheumatism. Gout & sciatica,
Cure liver & kidney disorders,
Cure sleeplessness,
AND
INVIGORATE
THE DEBILITATED CONSTITUTION.
These appliances have been recommended by
several of H. M. The Queen’s Physicians, and are
prescribed by the leading medical men of the world.
Pamphlet, “GALVANISM’’ —Nature’s Chief Re-
storer of Impaired Vital Energy, sent free anywhere.
OSBORU & JERDAfI,
Electricians & Opticians, 438 George Street, Sydney
The sole agents for Australasia.
The Celebrated
POKES MACHINE
A splendid investment for
HOTELKEEPERS, TOBACCONISTS, &c.
CIGARS FREE
m
DROPS'! IN THE SLOT
m
wm
iiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimmimiiiiii
HOME ROLE TOBACCO CO., 639 George St.
SYDNEY) Agents for Australia,
AIRDICESisIiKS A.\ i> mti.ta.’Hv- tts.'
To- tl»e Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. fid,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations,
CH.AJ.G <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUB PLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
m
5 <£?
The E. C. JOHNSTON
Self-Baster Lubricator
STRAINER PATENT.
Dr. P. ASHWELL, Glebe Road.
Your Patent Self-Baster has been in use in my
house for some weeks, and has given great satisfaction.
In the cooking of joints and poultry it has proved a great
success—saving great trouble to the cook, and improving
the flavor of the food.
The Self-Baster, simple in construction, possesses all
the advantages claimed for it. —F. A.
it2T The shallow dish Jits inside the deep dish.
N.B.—Send bottom measure of Baking Dish,
length and breadth to your ironmonger.
FACTORY:
9 Addison Road, Marrickville, N.S.W.
HUSBANDS!
Do not let your wives Suffer,
‘Orange Lily'
cures every Female Weakness, and makes life worth
living. 26 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY. Lady in
attendance.
Vic. Comity Court Judge Casey has an-
nounced from the bench that it is much more
venial to steal £lO from Baronet Clarke or
squatter Pursey Chirnside than to steal the same
from laborer John Jones.
The free population of New Caledonia now
numbers 13,038; the convicts, 10,757; and the
natives, 27,238. The oldest inhabitant is the Pole,
Berezovski, who tried unsuccessfully to assassinate
Czar Alexander 11. in Paris, 6th June, 1867.
According to official returns, it costs £4O a
year to feed the horse of the Vic. Chief Commis-
sioner of Police, and £5O to feed the horse of Col.
Tom Price; ditto for the horse of Col. Hoad. It
costs, however, only £24 to feed the horse of a
collector of Customs, whilst the horse of another
Customs officer has to live on £l2 a year—Stock
Inspectors’ horses have to live on 10s. a week. A
Colonel’s horse apparently eats twice as much as a
Stock Inspector’s, and four times as much as a
Customs officer’s.
The excellent Lormer, J.P. (who was
presented with a prize for virtue in the shape of a
cheque for £133 the other day) says that Justice
(m Melbourne!) is a female sitting down with her
eyes uncovered—possibly to see which was the
rich and which the poor applicant for justice,
whilst the scales are almost hidden from view in
her lap. He was referring to Justice as repre-
sented on the facade of the law-courts: —
Ah, Justice in these Southern lands
Appears in different guise :
The scales are no more in her hands—
The scales are on her eyes.
Obit : ‘ ‘ On Saturday, Aug. 16, at Laven
der Bay, Joseph Wyatt, formerly of Wyatt Bros.,
°f, Pitt-street, Sydney, eldest son of the late
William and Mary Wyatt, who emigrated to
Sydney in 1828; aged 70 years.” This “free”
emigrant came out with his family in a specially-
chartered ship laden with his stock-in-trade, and
started as an ironmonger in 1829 on the site of
David Jones and Co.’s warehouse inGeorge-street,
Sydney.. He then shifted to the bank of' the Tank
Stream in Pitt-’street, and in 1850 removed to the
site of the Royal Arcade, near the School of Arts.
In 1837 he began to build the Victoria Theatre in
the same street, now the site of Harris and Ack-
man’s warehouse. The theatre was opened 26th
March, 1838, with ‘‘OthelloArabin(fromHobart
Town) as the Moor, Spencer as lagq, Mrs. Win-
stanley as Desdemona. The Vic. suffered the
usual fate of playhouses, and was burned down
23rd July, 1880.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic:!, New Books; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
.main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
Robert Stout, Maoriland’s wonderful ex-
Demoorat, declares himself against the Old Age
Pension Bill and the State Fire Insurance scheme
—the latter because “it is altogether in aid of the
propertied classes and an unwarrantable interfer-
ence with. private enterprise.” Here Stout con-
tradicts himself badly ; the propertied classes own
the private insurance offices, and the scheme can’t
be in aid of them and an unwarrantable interfer-
ence with them at the same time. It is a fashion
nowadays for Fat Man to be more democratic
than the Democrats, and when he opposes pro-
gressi ve legislation he generally does it on the pre-
tence that it is, in some impossible way, legislation
in favor of the propertied classes, and that he is
against the propertied classes, though he doesn’t
look like it, and wants to put them down. Stout’s
wild lament that for the State to annex the profits
of the fire insurance biz. will really, in some
obscure way, subsidise the capitalists is a very thin
story.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
111 Try It.
wmrni
Posted (under cover)
ta any part of Austra
lasia orNewZealand,
price, 10,0
Sole Agents:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-332 Gaorge-st,, Sydney
MOW
owl
HE
iK
x>
BEST
IN Tl-1 E
MARK'EI
m.w ;*,t«
THE FAMOUS
§
Justus van Maurih’s
—CELEBRATED—
PCatcb Cigars.
TEA DIRECT from the PLANTATION *
Horace P. Ellis, Vickery’s Chambers, Svi-m.
DISCOVERED and PERFECTED by
Joseph Bosisto, C.M.G.
m
Rheumatism,
Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds,
Coughs, Colds, Influenza,
etc., etc,
Ask for
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand.”
Prescribed by Physicians.
VALUABLE in Cases of
INDIGESTION.
Biliousness,
Acidity, and
Nervous Headache.
A SAFE APERIENT for
INFANTS,
LADIES, and INVALIDS.
The Family Medicine.
Artificial Teeth, £5.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist, 38 Wyny aid-square.
COMPLETE (Upper and Lower) Geld Medal Sets
of perfectly - fitting Teeth, £5. Mastication
guaranteed. These are the best and lowest in price thatcan
be made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
gums. Old misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering with own
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate after
if wanted. Entire absence of pain during extractions by
the aid of nitrous oxide, chloride of ethyl, or cocaine.
Fee. ss. No danger or ill-effects follow. Send for Treatise
on Teeth. Consultations Free. Fees precisely the same
as advertised. Telephone 2167. Established 1879.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYN YARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert’s), SYDNEY.
T
0 MINING COMPANIES, BATTERY OWNERS
AND OTHERS.
Increase your yields by Saving the Fine Gold
and Pyrites by the use of
Wynne and Tregurtha’s
Patent Battery Plates.
This Invention, lately patented, revolutionises the ordi-
nary battery treatment of ores, for by its use copper-
plates, quicksilver, and chemicals are entirely dispensed
with. The Wynne and Tregurtha Patent Battery Plates
are made of iron, cast with peculiarly-shaped ribs”. They
are fitted in a wooden frame, and take the place of the
ordinary copper-plates and blanket tables. The tailings
on leaving the stamper boxes pass over the plates which,
from their construction, catch the fine gold and pyrites,
allowing the sand and water to flow away. When the
plates are fully charged with the concentrates they are
then tilted backwards by means of a lever, throwing the
contents into a trough underneath. In practical use
much better results have been obtained by these plates
than by the ordinary copper ones, the yield of gold being
increased by fully 10 per cent. Excellent results have
been achieved in the treatment of refractory ores, where
the gold is associated with some foreign mineral, which
has proved deleterious to the mercury and causing the
loss of the gold. The plates are strong, simple in con-
struction, and easily handled, and can be obtained from
J. MILLER <sc CO.,
'Machinery Merchants, Dana Street, Ballarat.
m MTII STORE, ltd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOUENE.
Universal Providers.
it3T Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
Thousands of testimonials prove the excellence
Arbenz’s Celebrated ‘Mandarin’ Razors,
with fully warranted interchangeable blades, which
never require grinding. All who use them speak with
unbounded enthusiasm of their capacities ; and even
those with the strongest beards a,nd most tender skins
are unanimous in saying that with no
hdf
other Razors can they obtain
such a remarkably easy and
perfectly luxurious shave
as with Arbenz’s. Made
by A. Arbenz, Jougne,
France, and Birmingham. introducer of the
original and only genuine “ Gem ” air guns. Insist
upon having guns marked “ Arbenz," with trade
mark ** A ” in Swiss cross for first quality, and “ B ”
in Swiss cross for second (or cheaper) quality. Of
Principal Importers.
I OST, by EVERY WOMAN who uses “ORANGE
‘ J tlliV,” all Pain and Suffering:, no matter of
how long standing. A LEGITIMATE REMEDY for
imperiM ArwMte -
Business Announcements.
A WONDERFUL
INVENTION!
HANNAM’S PATENT
Water-Meater.
A HOT BATH
—FOE—
A HANDFUL OF
CHIPS.
price, £2.
THE
Glow Lamp
mm
PRICE,
Is. 6d.
Post Free to
any part of
Australia,
2s.
The Cheapest
Kerosene Light in
the World.
BURNS 200 HOURS FOR ONE PENNY.
No Smoke. No Smell. No Danger.
HANNAM 4 CO.,
148 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IS
The Pickering Governor.
BOLE A.G-ENTTS :
H. P. GEEGORY
& COMP ANT,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
63T Write for Prices and particulars.
Publications
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musiesellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Greo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English & Colonial Celebrities
A LONDON SUCCjESS.
New Coon Song.
OH, HONEY, WILL YOU LUB DIS COON.
Price, 6d.
Also, same price, the popular song, "LOVE'S VESPER
HOUR,” by Lindsay Lennox, and “LOVE'S VESPER
WALTZ,” by Theo. Bonheur. 1600 other SONGS,
DANCES, etc., at 3d. EACH, of all Dealers, or from
Publishers, IV. PAXTON .1 VO,, 203 Swauston-st.,
Melbourne, ami 10 Oxford .Street, Loudon.
Catalogues Free.
SONGS of THE AULD COUNTRIE
(Popular Scotch Songs),
50
BURNS’ SONGS—IO4 pages -
(Solfa and Uld Notation combined.
Bound in Cloth, 2 -
1/-
20
1/-
SCOTTISH SONGS -
(Allan's Morven Collection.) Five parts now
ready (20 songs in each part). Bound in Cloth, 2/
110
SONGS OF SCOTLAND
(Without words.) For Piano or Organ.
Yiolin Parts, 6d.
2/-
ALLAN’S REELS, STRATHSPEYS,
and General Dance Music. Violin Part, (id.
2/'
All the foregoing songs and music:, which are ex-
ceedingly popular in the old country, will he sent post
free t j any address in Australia on receipt of P 0 or
M.O payable to—
MOZART ALLAN, Music Publisher,
70, fouth Portland St., CLASCOW, SCOTLAND.
Write for detailed catalogue of other publications
and songs, Post Free.
-c>-POST TREE JVT>>
WATCHES-CLOCKS-JEWELLERY-BIRTrfDAVh
WtDDiNc £ CrißfSTEfliflc PftESFIITS
nJSiEV/MAN- 1755177-ELIZABETH St.
OPPOSITE G:RO.
MELBOURNE-


TheMaoriland lady-help has been exempted
from the Bill providing a compulsory weekly half-
holiday for the domestic dish-smasher, therefore
there is going to be a big increase in the demand
for lady-helps very shortly. The plain, garden
Bridget is to get her half-holiday, but the lady-
help is left out in deference to her feelings or what
the House thinks are her feelings, in order to
differentiate her from the Bridget. The lady-help
already gets about half the wages of the ordinary
slavey, and does about twice the work, and occu-
pies an anomalous position as a sort of poor rela-
tion or orphan that was found on a doorstep ; and
this further distinction should about break her
heart.
Gist of a Maori petition to the M.L.
pakeha Government: Masterton and Porirua
Maoris consented to the Crown granting certain
lands to the pakeha Bishop (C. of E.) of Maori -
land, on the distinct promise that schools, &c., for
Maoris should be erected and maintained. The
church land-receivers are not xnen of their word.
So give the Maoris back the land obtained under
false promises. The allegations have been estab-
lished to the satisfaction of a Parliamentary com-
mittee. Maori corollary: How can we believe
these men about the “ Kingdom of Heaven ” when
they lie about the kingdom of earth ?
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassinussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
To Cure .Sore Throats
WOUNDS, BURNS, SORES, and all DISCHARGES, and for purifying drinking
water, use CONPY'S FLUID.
T«l/i Dy her y ists - Book ol' directions on every bottle. Condv & Mitchell of
London, England, are the solo makers. Insist on buying “fJONDY’S F J -IT TT).”
Use “ Condy’s Fluid.
HOTEL . . .
. . AUSTRALIA.
RATES:
12S. Ed. per Day
UPWARDS; INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
hfd
38
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd.
INCORPORATED 1870.
Directors:
ilofr. G. THORNTON, M.L.C.
(Chairman.)
Dh. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., J.P.
Hon. F. B. SUTTOR.
4
Registered under tlic Companies
Act, 18!)0.
CHIEF OFFICE IN NEW SOUTH
WALES :
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
.FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES.
STRICTLY MUTUAL. ALL PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURRENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Comlitiona Liberal. Security XT udloii.totecl.
•T. M. M'CRAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
WASHINGTON If. SOUL & CO.
Beg to advise all who are suffering from a COUG-H to use
Dr. Thompson’s Cough Linetus, Is. per Bottle.
To make PASTRY Light and Wholesome use
A. Soyer’s Baking or Yeast Powder, 6d. per Tin.
Of all Grocers.
To enjoy MEAT, GAME, FISH, etc., use
Soul’s Australian Belish, 6d. per Bottle.
To be had everywhere.
If you have INDIGESTION—the Bane of Mankind —use
Steam’s Compound Essence of Pepsine, 2s. per Bottle.
If you are troubled with ECZEMA, or any Irritation of the Skin, Pimples, etc., use
Dr. Bumstead’s Sarsaparilla, 4s. per Bottle.
Our Stock comprises mostly all Goods known in the Drug business, and of the best quality
only. Nearly everything under drug advertisements in this paper we keep.
PRESCRIPTIONS ACCURATETY COMPOUNDED AT A MODERATE RATE.
WASHINGTONH. SOUL & CO.,
Ms.P. SOCIETY, N.S.W.,
158 Sz 268 Pitt Street, Sydney, and at
Church, and Phillip Streets, Parramatta.
:ro.a_:d
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
u
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Bailway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence 'Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, Coloniat. Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
IKUN’S Rtmlten HHlit RESTORER
2*
I
c/x
63
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest the premature decay and per-
manently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
52
'■ VH
Bead the following Genuine and unsolicited Testimonial
MR. HOLLAND. Booligal Station, New South Wales.
Dear Sir,— l want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer, but Ido not know the price.
If you will let me know, I will send you the money. I have tried various Hair Restorers,
and I find yours far and away the best. I bought a bottle of it when in Melbourne, but
it is used up. I remain, yours faithfully,
Jos. J. Harris.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45.., 55., 10s. Gd., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
Wellingfcon-street, ST. HILDA, VICTORIA.
A certain cure for CHRONIC GOUT. RHEUMA
TIC GOUT, or RHEUMATISM. Before purchas-
ing the Australasian rights for this marvellous remedy I
tested it thoroughly in several acute cases. RELIE 1
was given in ONE HOUR; every case was cured. (Reference is kindly permitted to Mr. Alex. J. Smith,
an employe of the Vic. railway locomotive shops, who was cured of Rheumatic Gout by GCUTINE
after live years of suffering, and after the failure of leading Melb. physicians to effect cure. In Bottles
at os., 7s. Gd., and 12s. Gd—posted, Gd. extra, from holder of AUSTRALASIAN rights,
Oscar La-wson, Chemist, 136 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE..
GOUTIKE.
RELLr
from
GOUGH
nit
Mi
&S&2
m
TEN
MINUTES
Stops Cold, Cures Cough.
PREVENT Influenza, Cold and Cough by taking this well-known
Remedy promptly on the first appearance of Cold or Chill.
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & Co., London. Price Is. lid. and 2s. M.
McCracken’s City Brewery Ltd., Melbourne.
MccKAcm’s Pale Ale—Emu Brand
1896 KTE’W JtiJrtEW, KTow Ready.
HALT 1 the PRICE of any British and Foreign Ales,, its quality being EQUAL TO ANY
IMPORTED. *ST GET A TRIAL CASE !
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
A Pure Tobacco Dip. Best and Cheapest in the Market.
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP.
A.l3Solntely Destroys Ticks Xaicsies. Cures inzxel Prevents Scalta and
Nicotine Mange Cuve (in bottles), -j-pts., l/6; pts., 2/6 each. Nicotine Blight Cure (in bottles), , 1/6;
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO., “Rialto,” Coilins-street, MELBOURNE; G 3 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
footrot..
pts., 2/6 eaol
y


BUCKLEY & NUUK Ltd.,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS,
iARPET & FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
GENTLEMEN’S TAILORS & OUTFITTERS.
Sole Agents for the “Victoria” Cycles
(Made in Coventry, England).
GENTS’ ... ... ... £ It; and £2l
LADIES’ £lB and £2l
’Tangent Spokes, Dunlop Tyres, and all 189 G im-
provements. All Cycling Accessories, Ladies’
Costumes, Shoes, Gaiters, etc.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LIST.
LOMBARDIA,
THE GREAT PILE SPECIFIC
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
Before trying .other so-called Remedies you
should ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a
Pot of Lombardia, and take no other. Only one
Trial is asked.
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
F McDONALD, Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Alone
Alone
ARNOTT’S
MILK ARROWROOT BISCUITS.
The Children’s Food*
STAMP ALONE
PURITY l
mm of Imitations I
Alone
Alone
Mcrrall’s Nydratslic QCiartz Mill.
»«■♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
The Fastest Crusher in the World—Wet or Fry.
m
■- - ■
h
ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLETS,, with full particulars of MERRALL’S MILL and the
GOLD KING AMALGAMATOR, from
A. Gr. MITCHELL & CO.,
Sole Agents for New South Wales. The Strand, SYDNEY.
Atclierley
Choice
A rr J 0 J prn nrp pp TVp and SPECIAL SILVER MEDAL at the Metro.
AWdIUUU politau Show, 1895. These Teas also gained the same
distinction in Queensland. These Unrivalled' Teas are supplied to Consumers Direct at Lowest Rates
Samples Gratis. DELIVERED FREE at ANY TOWN IN THE COLONY
All Grades and Varieties of Tea kept in Stock.
257 GEORGE STREETSYDNEY— also at MELBOURNE & BRISBANE.
Cheapest House
in
Australia.
European Prices.
Easy Terms
from d6l monthly.
Send
for Testimonials.
UEipstoiarg, Hatiyn-AU jtiakuus.
BEALE & GO. Xitel., Sydney.
New Iron Framed
from
<£2s each.
Special Prices for
Export.
Drop us a line of
inquiry
from anywhere.
rcixe Largest & Oldest Establishmexit in Sydney
Suits, 42/-; Trousers, 12/6.
JOHN OR AH AM, 510 George Street, SydflCi,
(Near PARK STREET).
Our Higher Civilisation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sheriff was younger than his brother by
five minutes; their united ages amounted to 4G
years. He happened to ask Norah first, else she
might have accepted his twin, but this time
Murray was five minutes late. When she told
linn that_ Sheriff was already successful, he ex-
pressed, first regret, secondly satisfaction, that she
was still to come into the family. Norah said she
didn’t mind which of them she married, as long as
she got one.
Sheriff had some curious theories regarding
marriage. He held that, with highly-civilised
natures, the chief tie was between mind and
mind ; all the rest, however pleasant, was
superfluous. He did not say it outright; but ho
led Norah to believe that he married her simply
because to have married any other woman would
have been to raise a ridiculous barrier between
himself and his “chum;”
Norah heard him with calmness, but seemingly
without conviction.
* • * •
A dull day, a crowded church ; bride,
father, clergyman waiting for the bridegroom. A
message had just been despatched to liis lodging;
A journalist by profession. Sheriff had been hard
at work up to the vefy day of his marriage ; for
convenience’ sake he had been spending the last
few weeks apart from his family;
When the messenger returned with a note Nordh
was in the vestry, where she had taken refuge with
her father and Murray. She accepted the note
With fingers that did not tremble. Incoherent,
badly written, it was still clearly from Sheriff,
and it told her that she had never been
really loved, that he had discovered his mistake iri
time, and when she received this he would be far
away. •
She gave it to het father, then to her brother-in-
law that was to be.
After the first angry shame Murray reflected.
“ I know how this will end,” he said, “you’ll
marry me—eventually; because I’m the best
suite Ito you—after him. Why not walk out and
do it now ? ”
Outside they were playing the voluntary for the
third time.
* * * *
It was the fourth day of the honeymoon.
(Somebody has said that the honeymoon lasts four
days.) The young couple were seated at breakfast
in their hotel parlor, when the door opened and
Sheriff Fraser entered the room.
She knew at once. “It was all a mistake,” she
cried.
Sheriff placed his carpet-bag on a chair. “ I
know,” he observed; “I was off my head;
scarcely slept for weeks bsfore, trying to get my
novel finished and everything eff my hands. I’ve
a vague remembrance of writing a lot of rot and
then clearing out. I’ve been up-country these last
few days.”
He was gkiicirig from oiie to the other as he
spoke. He had braced himself up for the shock
of seeing them together; he forgot that he had
often seen them together before, He had told
himself a dozen times that Norah was lost to him;
but—somehow—she did not seem to be lost to him ;
his heart gave a sudden bound as he reflected that
they could still read together. “Lost!” He re-
peated the word out loud.
Norah was before him, trembling.
“I’d give her back if I could,” interposed
Murray, somewhat nervously.
“And, after all, what have you really lost?”
added Norah, plucking up courage. “Nothing
that you wanted very much. I can still talk to
you and argue with you and sympathise with you.
You’re not a sensualist, Sheriff, or a fool. Dreams
of the mutual frying-pan and the joint-stock dust-
bin were never in your line. Am I lost to you
because you don’t get quite everything? ”
“ And, anyhow, we’ve got her into the family,”
added Murray, by way of consolation.
* * * *
Hot, palpitating with terror at the tragedy
he could hardly be in time to prevent, Norah’s
father stood outside the door of the hotel sitting-
room. How preternaturally quiet it was inside !
A rattle of a teaspoon, the sound of a chair
pushed back, and then the voice of Sheriff Fraser
as he turned to leave the room. “ Bring Norah
lack to Sydney soon, Murray ; I want her to look
over that poem of mine, ‘Love’s Vengeance.’ I
ton’t think I’ve put quite enough passion in it.”
“Cold-blooded young dog,” thought Norah’s
f ather, unreasonably disappointed as he glanced
lack at his own young days.
But when Nature and Civilisation grapple,
Civilisation does win—sometimes.
Maoriland.
O. CLYDE.
“Tradesmen are acquainted with every-
thing but their own business. Pastok Bevan.
This gun kicks.
S.S. : “The London Socialist and park
orator of the poorer classes is an appalling jackass
•f ho receives even a modicum of justice in tales of
the day and imported ‘ drammer ’ of the ‘ Cheer
Boys Cheer ’ type. In Rignold’s latest purchase,
lians Phillips impersonates a clerk whose ambi-
tion it is to induce the British workman to
‘erwake,’ ‘erise,’ &c., and who haunts the public
>arks in his spare time, spreading the gospel of
liscontent. He is made to appear a fool and a
•oward. He raves about ‘hired assassins,’ and
juails abjectly before a Tommy Atkins who offers
'0 black his eye, and seeks sanctuary under the
oat-tails of authority as represented by a haughty
copper.’ The so-called agitator never rises
‘uperior to this in plays of our times, and in the
iction of the hour he is either a rogue or a fool or
•oth —the latter for choice. Road Morrison’s
.trong, compelling ‘Tales of Mean Streets,’ and
snow that the agitator in London is the dirtiest
ihing that crawls the gutters. Either the shades
n these pictures are dictated by ‘ proputty ’ and
Established Respectability, or the, Australian
jabor leader is a clean, upstanding man of sense
md knowledge where the English ditto is a com-
josite of the Ass, the muckworm, and the ape. ”
"A Failure.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a poor, weak-backed fellow, spoilt when
a child by the dull respectability of his parents,
and shipped off to “ the colonies ” with an outfit
containing plenty of white shirts, but not enough
practical knowledge to enable him to keep them.
He drifted, like many other victims of ignorant
respectability, to the Auckland gum-fields.
“ A spade and a spear and a sack for a pikau are
all you want,” said a fellow traveller, and he got
these things by pawning his last trinket.
His respectability prevented him mixing with
rough people, consequently he missed his chance
of learning the practical rules of gum-digging.
He upheld his dignity in the solitude of a miser-
able whare which some misanthrope had built at
the bottom of a gully opening into the Manukau;
and blundered by accident on it patch of swamp
gum which kept him going until the winter rains
raised the water-level. The water gave him a
chill, for he had not the “Savee” to put fresh
thatch on to the roof, and the floor and his blan-
kets got damp.
His last purchase at the store was a tin of
molasses and two loaves of bread. He lived on
these fof a week, whilst he fought with influenza,
and then, driven by necessity; he went out on the
desolate hills muttering like a doddering old man :
1 ‘ I must get enough guin to buy food—l fnust, I
must.”
He said this ds if his “must” would influence
Providence to put gum in his way;
Pushing through wet manuka shdulder-highj he
climbed a clay slope, spearing as he went; driving
the sharp steel into the ground with desperate
fierceness; liiuttering, as his arms ached and his
head spun, “ I must, I must get gum ! ”
He stood on a barren ridge, straightened his
back, and saw the great Manukau Harbour
stretching sandbanks and swirling channels south-
ward into misty distances. A damp, cold wind
swept down from the Titirangi Ranges, and chilled
him to the bone ; but his head burned with feyet
and the desire in that frantic “ I must, I must.”
His heart gave a bound. The sharp steel point
went crunching into brittle resin. He set eagerly
to work with the spade and turned up a few lumps
Of gum. He dug on, but there was no more. He
scraped the gum roughly with his pocket-knife,
and then, hiding his spade and spear near the foot-
track, he set off on a four-mile walk to the store.
The store was principally hotel. Mr. Landlord
weighed the gum and threw down eighteenpence.
“ You look bad, Mister,” he said ; “ have a drink.”
The unfortunate ‘ 1 Mister ” chose brandy, and felt
its influence steal through every vein in his body,
“dive me another,” he said, with some of his old
affectation, “ and haveone with me;”
He drank his share at a gdlp, threw down a
shilling : “ Now give me a big loaf;”
He paid for the loaf with his only sixpenbe and
staggered out of the siore;
“If you are catching ahjr. schnapper bff the
r&cks I’ll give you sixpence apiece for them. And
iffy missis likes pipis, so I’ll pay for a kit if you
'will bring them up,” shouted the landlord after
him. Then it struck the poor unfortunate for the
first time that he had been living for weeks by a
harbor teeming with fish, oysters, and pipis.
The wind had risen and it was raining; but
whilst the brandy lasted he was oblivious to wet
or cold.
It grew dark, and he began to feel as if he had
walked many scores of miles. The rain was
trickling down his spine : his boots were full of
water and weighed tons, the track had gone
wrong somehow. Suddenly he stepped for a
moment into space, and came crash on to a clay
slide. He grabbed frantically at nothing and
went rolling and sliding down a bare slope, flop
into rushing water. It was only a gully flood, and
in the daylight a child could have scrambled out;
but this man’s struggles only resulted in send-
ing him downward more swiftly. Influenza
and brandy had addled his poor brain. He
was carried by the flood under arches of tangled
trees and bowers of giant ferns, wonderfully beau-
tiful in the sunlight, but fearsome caverns in the
darkness. Once he was jammed against the roots
of an old kauri, and could have climbed out within
cooee of a hut euchre-party ; but the water banked
against him, welled over him, spun round him,
and carried him onward. He had no hope of
escaping. One great idea was in his mind—he did
not know how to live ; but be knew how to die.
One short fight and he could be free of the water;
but the miniature flood tumbled him along, rolled
him out on the beach, and he lay there on the mud
until the tide rose, and the little crabs and the
curious fishes examined him and voted him a
failure.
F. ROLLIT.
In California, lately, a death - sentenced
assassin of sanguine hue feigned lunacy. The
Lunatic Asylum governor, disguised as a prisoner,
companioned with him, and he was executed on
this officer’s report.
Tetanus (lock-jaw and its kin) is now
known for certain to be due to a microbe, which,
like that of leprosy, lives in the soil. A curious
confirmation of this is the prevalence of tetanus
among farm-hands, grooms, gardeners, and parti-
cularly grave-decorators and cemetery men. Ceme-
tery hands, whenever they happen to wound
themselves in any way, plug the cut with grave-
yard earth, hence the large percentage of grave-
yard patients in proportion to their limited
numbers.
Said by a most expert analyst before the
British Liquor Commission The fusel oil in
whisky (which, by the way, rarely amounts to one
part in 1000) is not an impurity, but a necessary
ingredient naturally formed during fermentation
along with the pure • alcohol. It is the fusel oil
which gives the characteristic flavor, and, if it
were entirely removed, the result would be
ordinary ‘ silent spirit ’ (spirits of wine) quite des-
titute of flavour. The strong flavor of ‘ pot still ’
whisky is the effect of the fusel oil not being re-
moved, whereas in the milder-flavored ‘ patent
still ’ whisky much of the fusel oil has been separ-
ated off. The potencies of the two are not pro-
portionate to the fusel oil in them, but to the
amount of alcohol present. Also whisky does not
lose its fusel oil in ageing; old whisky contains
just as much as new.’
Dear Bmumir, -Though it may sound
rank blasphemy I must point out the hopeless
ignorance of the grog - industry display.edl by
Scotty the Wrmkler m a recent ssue
Scotty states that he was born m a .distillery
but l have known a parson s son jno aiit of t e
Bible. ‘Scotty says that ““
from malt. Rubbish. In all the small distillei ics
of Scotland and Ireland nothing is used except
malt. I may add that the smaller the sti 1 e
better the grog, as a rule. Inithe largerq?ot stills
raw grain is used, the diastase, in the ma t con-
verting the dextrine of the grain into saechanne
and thus obviating the trouble of malting. U®
patent still is genera ly used for distilling a strong
plain spirit from molasses, rye or other infer or
material. This is used as a base m blending with
the small-still product, or by redistillation is con-
verted into hemor-gm &c The patent st does
not produce foreshot, but does away with the
Vile stuff, mtichused asan embrocation, but unfit
to take inwardly. Foreshot is the first
product of the pot-still, which has to be
“ doubled ” or run through the still a
second time. “ Flints ” and “ fusel oil ” are
™‘s("£d?>y being held over an/p„t into‘the
with th( f « w f sh ” of a succeeding brew,
Fugel oil ig an ingred ient of all new spirits. It is
dd teri but with age decomposes and adds
> bouquet to the whisky. The Lords’
Comndssi Av years ago, disclosed that Ger-
man spirit, almost free from fusel oil, was the vilest
bbi £. f ’ alL «< The Wrinkler ” states that gram
P. t . g gent from Scotland to be converted into
Aeneh brandy. Bosh! The operation would be
than 3 sending coa i to Newcastle. Who
woul(J wagte British grain in producing an inferior
brand when the French themselves could do the
same from bad wine or wine “lees” (waste),
there is the cost of carriage, and I imagine
France being a se nsible Protectionist country,
vigilant Cuftoms House to stop such .little
£ veh if thßy were commercially profitable
g }, * g( .j od brandy is produced around
J j aginc that there are no facilities
district bUSin and Chinamen, whatever
be the c ase with Oorowa or Albury.-V.
v . , . ; , . _
Culture is that which teaches us not to ex-
press our admiration of the sensational.


Tbs Uf? Hs?s(srai?cs Con^paoy
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia. OF NEW YORK.
The Largest, Wealthiest, and Most Progressive Life Insurance Company.
ASSETS (December 31, 1895)
RESERVE FUND
SURPLUS
INCOME for 1895 ...
NEW BUSINESS PAID FOR IN 1895
INSURANCE and ANNUITIES IN FORCE
... <£45,423,76:
39,907,014
5,516,74 b
9,978,938
... 30,296,93 c
184,614,87?
FLANS OP INSURANCE TO SUIT ALL REQUIREMENTS.
For information thereof apply to
Tb€ MANAGER,
COMPANY’S BUILDING, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Or at the Branch Offices— Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
ASPINALL YOUR OWN HOMES.
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL can be used
successfully by an amateur, and
should be in every bouse. For
touching up and re ■= enamelling
Bedsteads, Chairs, Screens,
Vases, Baths, Hot Water Cans,
&c., &c., it is invaluable, and is
useful for repainting Cupboards,
Doors, Wainscots, and all articles
of Wickerwork, Metal, or Glass.
A few tins of ASPINALL will
completely transform a shabby
room with very little trouble or
expense. Be careful to use good
brushes, as by that means the
best results can be obtained.
$
O-
o
o
/b
7
4>
o
DURABLE and EFFECTIVE.
MuU>x cyclists sirov™ ask eoe * EXQUISi l C.
i ™ SPECIAL CYCLE black.
R pu# _,. a 7 * »™VIAL CYCLE BLACK.
Beware of Spurious Imitations. Insist on
BRILLIANT GLOSS.
“ASPI NALL’S.”
South Sea Florists,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
miBS the #“ risls .” «« Maud,
“ 'to have annihilated her.
x Jon.sts, I echoed scornfully, “with floral
beauty littering the ground ! ”
Yes, that s just it —littering the ground,” she
pursued calmly; “ 1 prefer it gathered up.”
here ’ 1 suppose people can make bouquets
have seen one specimen: so can
ffthe Ei 1 "* 0 lhe S “ loon - “ ”“*> W
S? ave ” > we . have dolle Wlt h that sort
thing ! We came here for Nature, not false
“So l perceive ” and Maud’s glance travelled
up to my face and down to my hands. “ I never
MSydn°ey.” lth pearl - powder and 12-button gloves
i..Ji 1 j dgett ' e< ?u Wit ! 1 my repr ehensible buttons: “I
had to save the gloves from mould, and the powder
heat ;, W ait till I’m acclima-
tised, then you 11 see !
iii es ’ 111 s «®>” laughed Maud as the warning-
bell rang. You ve been here six days; I’m
P“ D ? , P? f ,atdi thl . s way in six months when you’ll
. civilised by your residence among
de fVYnon a ” IVeS ' wdl be rOWJC then ’ and cr ?™ e
Waud ! You don’t seem to realise that we
aiego-mg to live out of touch with civilisation,
among natives who adore Nature, who are inno-
cent of artifice, who never conceal their real feel-
mg's, who arc destitute of conventions ”•
4 Visitors ashore ! ”
My energy transferred itself from my tongue to
my toes, but as I settled down in the little boat
alongside the Irisco mail-steamer Maud’s merry
voice floated down from the deck :
* i there’s a woman just gone down with
f, om ® dy ® on her face, and here’s a man with pow-
dered hair. Hadn 11 better bring vou a few com-
plexion-bottles from Paris? They’ll be better
than native cosmetics.
Put if we had only been six days in Apia, Maud
had only stayed as many hours, and couldn’t pos-
sibly know what she was talking about.
1 smiled pitifully.
* * * *
Florists, indeed ! Oh, the delight of getting
away from their wires and gum, their unnatural
bouquets and emblems and wreaths ! The florist
Is a civilised abomination, only equalled by the
ci vilised garden. Now, here we were, idealising
Jite in an arbor, with ferns gracefully drooping
rioni the roof, and pretty girls, a blossom stuck
carelessly into their locks, were bringing us hand-
inJs of flowers in old salmon-tins, and everything
and everybody was in close sympathy with Nature
unadorned, and therefore at her best.
These were my satisfactory reflections when we
had successfully fled out of touch with civilisation
and were ensconced in the native hut which was to
be our home for months. Sugarcane thatch shel-
tering our heads, cocoa-nut mats for chairs and
lounges, breadfruit-leaves for plates, and novelty
lor spice—a perpetual picnic with none of the con-
ventional acoessoires. We had come pour nous
retremper, to hark back to ancestral, patriarchal
simplicity, to learn what we were before Progress
had put us into unnatural garments, mental and
physical. And we meant to go back, better and
wiser, but not sadder, for the experience.
I thought of Maud, sailing away on her ’Priseo
boat towards the pomps and vanities of the weary
old world. I smiled pitifully.
* * * *
The poetry of Nature lay about us like
Heaven in our infancy. Next day we came home
from a romantic walk, our arms laden with tropical
treasures and our brains with tropical fancies. We
were met by the pretty girls, dancing and spring-
ing towards us, garlands on their heads and a
nouth-organ in full career. The mouth-organ was
oinoying; Pan’s pipe seemed more appropriate.
But one cannot get rid of all trace of Progress, and
modern music was supposed to add a charm to
the siva which was offered to us—a children and
girls siva , the most innocent little performance
possible, with never a trace of the doubtful about
it; an open-air siva, with the setting sun-glow for
1 nnelight and green palms for background. Arca-
dia come back to us.
Would I be the siva queen ? Of course I would.
And straightway bent my head for the wreath,
fragrant thyme, and held out my hand for the
perfumed fan that was my sceptre, and down we
squatted and dreamily watched the pretty move-
ments of our gracious little brown maids. Inno-
cence disporting itself without vanity; sweetness
and light radiating from the untutored savage on
our world-worn spirits.
Again I thought of Maud, who would soon be
watching sivas of a very different nature ; Maud
with a society smile on her lips, and comfortless
raiment skewering her into fashion-plate sem-
blance, and wired blossoms in her hair, and in her
hand a fan plucked from the ill-used ostrich. I
still smiled pitifully.
* * * *
Maud’s fan recalled my own little sceptre,
and I took it up for inspection. Very fragrant
very diminutive very curious-so curious that I
toigot to watch the siva. Tiny fragments of
radiant color on tiny spikes—what could it be?
As I peereil curiously a conviction slowly arose
which made me go hot with vexation : those spikes
those bits of color—alas for disillusions The
palm-tree had been brought into play, the “flowers
of the forest ” rifled, but there Nature ended. My
simple little fan was of palm-frond ribs, on which
were spiked flower-petals, dainty, fragrant little
petals, ruthlessly mangled and skewered, one by
one. Never was civilised florist guilty of such
senseless barbarism.
Instinctively my hand went up to my head and
withdrew the wreath for examination: shredded
blossoms again. Gardenia petals, Cape jasmine
coiollas, broken tufts of native thyme, scraps of
leaf, all strung together, instead of the natural
. sprays I supposed myself to be wearing. And
the girls pretty wreaths were, no doubt, all equally
unnatural ; and Miss Simplicity over there, with
her virginal white coronal, its tiny pendants show-
ing like pearls on her broad forehead—she had
doubtless torn up sensitive petals with a view to
this innocent effect.
I believe I still smiled pitifully. The pity was
addressed to myself.
* * * *
But one gets over disillusions to start
afresh. After all, Progress could not be expected
to leave Arcadia untainted. There was surely
enough Nature and Poetry left to satisfy the most
captious. Two days later I saw them in combina-
tion, . adapting fait- fibre to native requirements.
I*itu is one of that admirable hibiscus family which
combines beauty with use : its yellow blossoms arc
pleasant to the eye, its yellow fibre is employed in
more ways than one. On this occasion it was
being converted into tit is, the flapping girdles that
grace ceremonial days.
.Iwas distressed. The tit is I had seen were of
vivid draciena leaves, besides which the straw-
colored fibre paled into insignificance. I said so.
Oh, but I didn’t understand. The fibre was to
be colored, making lovely tit is fa pea (like this).
And two gaudy things were held up for admira-
tion green and orange, blue, violet and red, a
girdle of bunched favors with fluttering streamers.
1 was interested at once : what native trees gave
the dye?
Ah, they no longer used native dyes, it was too
much trouble and the others were so much prettier
—English Judson’s !
This time I forgot to smile.
* * * *
After all, I had a chance of seeing the
native dyes at work. Passing a boatshed one day
we noticed the two fattest women in the village
pivoting to and fro on a slung bar. They were
apparently enjoying an impromptu merry go-
round m their dingy waistcloths and sloppy busts
a hibiscus stuck jauntily behind the ear, a native
cigarette protruding from the thick lips. The
cordage which slung their bar was dingy like
themselves, but of a chocolate dinginess, and the
drip-drip that fell into the oblong wooden bowl
was also ehoeolate-hued.
What were they doing ? What should they be
doing but screwing the colored juice out of the
leaves of the O’a tree, which were crushed inside
that cordage. Had 1 not noticed the warm-tinted
patterns on the best siapo, the siapo worn by chiefs
on great days? That was dyed with O’a. '
I his was charming. The dear native, with
happy-go-lucky ease, getting Nature to help him
in Ins simple manufactures and innocent class dis-
tinctions. How deeply interesting !
A plump young girl came up, mainly clad in
said plumpness. The leaf-girdle flapping round
her waist and the fishing-net on her shoulder
showed that she was out on business, but her
lustrous skin was well oiled, a necklace of
round capsicums like large cherries circled her
throat, and her short mahogany hair stood up stiff
and shiny. Very curious shade of hair, the kind
that suddenly became fashionable in Paris a few
years ago. I inspected it with such interest that
one of the pivotees removed her sului to give an
explanation.
“ O’a,” she said, laughing and pointing said
cigarette, first at the dye in the bowl, then at the
mahogany hair.
I became reflective. It would have been frivo-
lous to smile.
* * * «
My next experience was on a Saturday,
when most good native Christians—all natives here
are good Christians—prepare suitably for the Sab-
bath by plastering their hair white. The coral
lime is credited with bleaching properties, but it
is alsoeleansing and thereby necessarily connected
with Godliness. Those women who preserve then-
long curly locks don’t plaster, for obvious reasons,
but they lather with leaves from the Toa tree and
use the juice of lime and wild orange, and are con-
sequently as clean as their shorn neighbours,
borne of them, moreover, are independent of coral,
boasting a natural growth of light or even piebald
hue. I saw one of these natural growths on a
straight-profiled lass with unusually fair skin : it
stood out like a halo and was caught in at the top
of the head in bird-nest fashion, a perfect mop of
fuzzy tow.
“I suppose she values it highly,” I said, think-
ing of our society belles.
Yes, indeed. She was growing it specially for
sale. Each crop was worth a fine mat to her, the
most aristocratic skirt a brown damsel can own.
But this damsel was specially ambitious, and her
dream was a shark’s-tooth necklace.
Disconcerting, but innocent. Girls will be girls,
and after all sharks’ teeth were more beneficent
than “oysters’ tears.” If she liked to sacrifice
her chevelure for a parure, she was no worse than
your simple Breton and Polish peasant, only she
drove a better bargain.
“ And that one ? ” I asked, pointing to another
flaxen-haired, light- com plexioned nymph. Her
hair was curiously dark about the roots, and her
draperies had a dirty yellow tinge. “Does she
sell for mats ? ”
“Ah, no, she was less fortunate ; her hair was
not yellow: she stained it with turmeric, and it
was turmeric that gave her that soft yellow skin.
But it was nasty stuff to come off, and stained all
your lava-lavas.
Aureoline and Jaune de Ninon among our
primitive natives !
I had no looking-glass, but I believe myself to
have smiled sorrowfully.
* * * *
One grows hardened. I became used to it
all. Used to going' into raptures over a parti-
colored blossom which I discovered to bo the
corolla of a pink flower stuck into the corolla of a
white one. Used to admiring double blooms that
proved to be single blooms communistically ar-
ranged. Used to accepting necklaces of shred
petals and capsicum peelings and torn leaves, all
arranged to simulate that which they were not.
Pernaps my greatest trial was when a bunch of
soft yellow fans was brought to me and I disco-
vered never a stalk among them ; they were all
“ wired ” on coeoanut ribs.
I learned to accept it philosophically. I forgot
the art of smiling pitifully.
* * * *
When Maud passed on her way back I did
not go to meet the mail-boat—l bad not the face.
But I wrote to her :
“Come down here and set upas a florist and
perfumer. A few civilised lessons in the apprecia-
tion of Nature would improve barbarian art.”
0 . . Rose de Bohejie.
Siufanga, Navigator Islands.
Hutchison, M.H.R., on Premier Seddou,
of M L. :
The Premier has the capacity of an ostrich for pickin”'
up tulics, but nature lias denied him the power of assiniil
lation. lie, also, like the ostrich, when pursued by the
hunters, conceals his head in a mass of figures, though in
doing so he exposes his least honorable parts.
Sentencing Judge at Orange (N.S.-W.)
Quarter Sessions: “Anything known of this
man? His face seems familiar. ” Police: “Yes,
y’r Honor. (Soanso, soanso, &c.) And y’r Honor
sentenced him three years ago at Bathurst ’’—the
next “ sessions ” town ! “ to 15 years’ penal ser-
vitude.’ How do the “ infiuentials ” work the
oracle ?
Alfred Austin, Royal Rhymer, was special
correspondent for London Standard durino- the
I raiico-German war. It is hard to believe°that
any man who had ever witnessed the mount and
charge of heavy squadrons coqld have written
such a spiritless, short-footed, string-haltino-
waddle as that entitled “ Dr. Jim’s Ride.” But"
perhaps Alfred is a humorist with satirical spots. ’
Something interesting ought to happen
when the N.S.W. statistics for 1895 and 1896 are
available. Premier Reid, in his financial state-
ment, quoted figures showing the immense increase
of employment in certain industries under Free-
trade, but as these figures are not available to the
general public, and won’t be available for a long
time, no one could check bis assertions. M'Millan
alleges, however, that he inquired at the Statisti-
cian’s office and was informed “that the figures
given by the Premier were not the figures of
the statistician.” Consequently, M‘M. is wait-
ing in ambush for the publication of these statistics
and hopes to have a really good time with Reid
when they come out.
Ihe late Dr. Aubrey Bowen, of Melbourne,
writes a Bulletin correspondent,, predicted that
the great oculists of the future would be women,
whose fingers, naturally more slender and deft
than men’s, are better educated in “ finnicking ”
work. And, as for the alleged superiority of a
man’s nerve in surgical operations, it is an advan-
tage which he sacrifices to drinking and smokum
habits. The lady-doetor doesn’t clutch the knife
or the needle with an unsteady hand, whereas the
average whisky and cigar-loving sawbones is quite
incapable of threading a needle in a dim light.
Sometimes lie can’t guide a latchkey into his front
door,
The Long Arm of Coincidence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some years ago in a Maoriland city I attended an
inquest on a man who had carried about a bullet
in Ins brain for several days before succumbing to
toe injury. Ihe jury having found their verdict,
a toiv of us, including a doctor or two, the police-
inspector, the coroner, and the foreman of the
juiy, remained chatting in the hotel parlor, and
the conversation naturally turned on fatalities
similar to that which had been the subject matter
of the afternoon s business.
T J remarkable case I ever knew,” said
i)r. Ik, a retired military surgeon, “was that of
Oaptam Herford, an oificer in the colonial forces
who was wounded while gallantly leading on his
men at the siege of Orakau— the same engagement
that made the name of Rewi Maniapoto famous.
Her ford was struck by a bullet between the left
eye and the bridge of the nose. There was no
sign of the ball externally, and, anyhow, from the
position of the wound it was impossible to probe
tor it. However, as the poor fellow didn’t seem
much the worse for the wound, it was concluded
that he had been struck with a spent ball which
iiad caused a superficial fracture but bad not
penetrated. In a few days Herford was up and
about with a dressing on the wound, and, havin'-'
been promoted for bis bravery, lie spent several
weeks squaring* up his company’s accounts and
banding the command over to his successor. One
day, six weeks after the engagement, life was sud-
denly taken ill and went off pouf ! The autopsy
showed that the bullet had penetrated and travelled
round the inside of the cranium to the back of his
head, where it caused a fatal abscess.” (Which,
by the way, was exactly how JVTr. Norton the
Dubbo police-magistrate," died, after livirm in full
consciousness many months after he had been shot
by ms friend, the handsome Mrs. Wilkie.)
“I can tell you a more wonderful case than
commenced the foreman of the jury, but as
Oi. Ix. was also full of a reminiscence, the layman
courteously waved to him to proceed.
“Well, gentlemen,” said Dr. K., “I had the
privilege while in China of meeting the doetoi
who attended on W alters, one of Gordon’s men—
shot right through the body, just above the median
line. Dm ball entered just here,” said the doctor,
his hand on the last button of his waist-
*T a b and came out at the back, about an inch to
the left of the spinal column. This case, you may
not know, gentlemen, is recorded by our medical
authorities as one of the most remarkable in the
history of surgery. Walters recovered; though,
a,s it is more than 30 years ago, he may now be
dead.
“Doctor, ’ chipped in the foreman, who, by the
way, was a stranger to all present; “ I remember
hearing of that case. In tolling the story, I think
you made one or two little mistakes. If I re-
member right, the bullet came out at the right
hand side of the spine -you said it was the left—
and, moreover, the mail’s name was not Walters :
it was Walker.”
Ig K., who was a trifle pompous, didn’t seem
to like being corrected by a layman on a matter
of medical lore—he suggested that the foreman’s
memory was at fault.
“Doctor,’' said the foreman, “I’ll bet drinks
foi all bands that I am right, and that I can prove
it m a couple of minutes.”
Dr. K. smiled incredulously, but assented to the
wager with a rather patronising little nod.
I iist of all, said the foreman, diving his
hand into his breast pocket and producing some
faded papers “ here is the discharge of the very
man from the ‘ Ever Victorious Army,’and here
is a medical certificate signed by the surgeon you
Vi 1 on see, the name of the man was
Walker, and not ‘Waiters.’ ”
Then, to the surprise of the company, the fore-
man hurriedly removed his coat and vest, raised
his slurt, and, pointing to a cicatrice to the right
of his spine, remarked quietly: “ Pay for tin-
groceries, doctor. I’m ex-sergeant Walker, of
Gordon s force, and I’m the man that the bullet
went through.”
“ How is that for a coincidence ? ” said the in-
spector. _ “You wouldn’t believe it if you read it
in a novel.”
J. A. PHLLP.


Over 6,000,000 Boxes sold yearly
——
BEECHAM'S
PILLS
Have been before the Public for 50 years, and have by far
the largest sale of any proprietary remedy. Persons subject
to bilious attacks, or who suffer from stomachic disorders,
should never be without a box at hand. Their gigantic
success and genuine worth are well known in every English-
speaking country in the world, and the proof of their excel-
lence lies in the fact that they are generally adopted as the
family medicine after the first trial.
In Boxes, 9±d., Is. l|d., and 2s. 9d. Each.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
It is a most pleasant and reliable dentifrice, and is put up in
collapsible tubes at
ONE SHILLING EACH.
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMABKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSH WARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS & CIGARS:
SpkDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T BE BEAT, THREE
WILLIAMS ULLY ’ A 1 CLRLS ’ LEGER > TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
CIGARS,
viz.:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA PAROLA, EL MUNDO
S!pI& a SS’l “ tof® <R 08 SANTiAGO, HANSA;
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons Furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-payment
*ar Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade sup-
plied cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer
HAIMARKET, SYDNEY.
dfh
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
' IN FOUR WEEKS
uoiNNiNa. EDO WEEK. Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,”
specifics, etc., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing: Manly Visor in
young a «d old men. The Homcepathic Treatment cures in four weeks. All letters sent
sea e . ress, Hr. IRVING CO., c/r Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
J
1 >
tr THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS »ke FftSTCOLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Cxoods bearing, our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
We will Pay the Cost of Making up a New Dress.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress.
HE SAW.
-X
u
V
1
I.—Clown : “ Bolivar, I want to teach you how to see-saw.”
S -
l
QO>
K 3
2.— “ Now, carefully, carefully
&
8
s>
(<j>
X
3.—Bolivar: "/ see.”
STOP THAT COUGH!
Don’t Delay—TAKE
BONNIN<STON’S
(Registered..) IRISH MOSS.
Mt Dear Mb. BONNINGTON.
[COPT.]
“Theatre Royal, Sydney, April 20, 1896.
“ Allow me, on behalf of Mrs. Holt, to thank you very sincerely for your
kind thought in sending her, on Saturday, a bottle of your famed Irish Moss. I may say that
it is an old and valued friend of ours, and I am sure our esteem of its virtues will be
strengthened by the acquaintance with it which we now renew, through your good ageney.
“ With all sincere wishes for your success and well-being,
“I remain, yours cordially, BLAND HOLT.”


bo You USB
0
IN ANY
QUANTITY ?!
Therefore, go
and obtain
IF SO
you OUCHT
to purchase one of Wells’
Waste-Oil Filtees,
you will then only have
. TO BUY .
Oil occasionally, as the Dirty
Oil can he used over again,
to Wimble’s, 87 Clarence-st.
. A FILTER .
that will save its own cost in six months.
ARTIFICIAL PERFUMES.
CAUTION!
Messrs. J. & E. ATKINSON warn
their customers against the Artificial
Chemical Perfumes at present so
extensively offered. Though strong
they are nasty , and from a hygienic
point of view their use is to be strongly
deprecated.
ATKINSON’S “ NATURAL ” PERFUMES
ape made from flowers, and possess all their
natural fresh sweetness. They cannot be
surpassed either in delicacy or strength.
ATKINSON’S “WHITE ROSE,”
' A scent ’-H.R.H.TheDuchess ofYork.
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St., London.
mALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED
w.
MAMM A
Ylii A A
GOODS and CUTLERY
& SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
03 York Street, SYDKTESY.
Collins
•• THE
Street;,
BLOCK,”
3yr.fa',»lj-lU<^TT3^3Xr3sji.
PALMER TIRES!
DETACHABLE AND SINGLE TUBE (RACING).
FASTEST TIRES ON RECORD.
Outside Tyre Covers
Internal Tubes
Non-slipping Bands
Valves
Valve Tubing
Solution
{Pedal Rubbers
Cork & Rubber Handles
Repairing Rubber Sheet
LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK. CALL or WRITE FOR PRICE-LIST.
The India Rubber, Gutta Percha
& Telegraph Works Co. Ltd.
Sydney Branch. : 283 GEORGE STREET (opposite Hunter-street).
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
m~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YtnJ SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Buy from us and save 50 per cent., and remem-
ber that LI saved is equivalent to £5 earned. We
are selling SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE,
BRONZES, GENUINE OIL and WATER-COLOR PAINT-
INGS, and all the usual fixings for the comfort or adorn-
ment of the Cottage or the Mansion, at fully 50 per
cent, on the average prices oharged elsewhere. Gome
and inspect. _ _
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-stJ, SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
, Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Came, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AETERNQON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THE* WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
JAgenta Everywhere. JJ, PATESON, MANAGER.
•mm
Hr n
Gardner Governor.
9
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mining Engineers and Machinery Merchants
Importers of Mine & Mill Supplies,
Penberthy Injector.
Korting Injector.
........1
Double Sight Feed Lubricator.
SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
For every Class of Worn,
Agents Everywhere.
Batho’s
Baking p ow( |er.
“ DjiVGOIVBT ” Claampagne. EXTRA SUP. DRY.
MAJRES & CO’S Sherries. IN BULK and CASE.
*• MARIPOSA. ” Cigars. In 50 and 100 BOXES.
The above can now be had from the SOLE AGENTS—
SCOTT, SIBBALD & CO.,
20 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’SUVOI3
The popular favorites. Equal in flavor and aroma to cigars of twice their
cost. Always reliable and in good condition. Best value ever known.
as.
msGis
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
1
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HOMEUR*
Obtainable from all Leading 1 Drapers.
Trade Mark.
WHOLESALE ONLY :
Borsdorff & So.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
”0 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
ANB AT
iAcl el ai cle & Holaarfc
EG?
'V
5T>
P.D
s
Ffl
2Z
