

McEWAN’S ale.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
CADBURY'S COCOA
A Stimulating*, Sustaining* Gup. Made Instantly.
' PARSONS’ Flaked Oatmeal
B. Car, WATKINS & OO ,
107 Street, Sydney,
—POII
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Hriing Beqmsites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
*
K
# o
o
7s
V
R
1
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 2S Plot Street, SYDNEY,
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
ALL STOREKEEPERS
IN JV.S.W. * QUEENSLAND.
\'\ ilillS:
few
mmm
m
m
mil
fei-SiPl
rig!
jB; -f-'r j
lwm;1
mm
ir™ 8 "'— 5
i>waahs?«i
mM*#/
-
ROBERTS’
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
4s and 2s per bottle.
Brown’s Four-Croivn Whisky, 3/f)
Gilbey’s Silver stream Schnapps,
4s and 2s
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
Whisky, 3/f)
Very Superior old Tort Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
S»f»re voting the City write to the /'Manager for
Oira (prre;por,dence promptly attended to.
m
1&5
/
P a 0 N icER
LEATHER
B E LT B
EVERY" BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World’s Far, Chicago, 1393.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.SrW. Government.
J. C. LUDOWIJI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The T Boot Coy.
Largest and Best Shoe Store in Australia.
IMMENSE VARIETY TO SELECT FROM.
Prices Below every Competitor.
Tboot company,
386 Qeorge-st., Sydney.
SENIORS
TONIC
(REGISTERED).
THE
Great Health Restorer.
RECOMMENDED BY THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION.
SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Sold Everywhere.
n '■ '"—i
THE
3/4 to
60 B.H.P.
Recommended and used by nearly all Governments. Best and Cheapest motive Pe,ver for any purpose— Stationary, Electric Light, Portable Launches, Pishing Boats. Perfect
make compact,' strong, light, erected anywhere; simple, easily started in five minutes, no boiler, no water oetnmmed, NO DANGER, no attendance after starting, clean ; fuel, any Kerosene, f-pint per
hour per H. P. used. Ask for results and testimonial's. Results obtained for Pumping, if price for kerosene 10s. per case, 1000 gallons raised 100 feet for Penny Three-farthings.
Uead. Offices for Australasia - - - 30 IPi/fct; Street, SYJDNTEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 17 .No. 836.]
["Saturd ay, February 22, 1896.
iiegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as n N^gha^er.


Publishers’ Notice.
Three New and Attractive Publications.
“ Our Celebrities.” 1/- ; posted, 1/3
25 Splendid Photos, of Australian Favorites.
Australian Boys & Girls. 1/6 ; posted, 1/10
An Illustrated Annual of Tales by Louis Becke,
E. Favenc, Ethel Turner, etc.
Australian Music Portfolio, No. 1.
1/. ; posted, I*J
Containing New and Old Favorite Songs and Dances.
“A marvellous shi-llingsworth.”—The Bulletin.
GORDON & GOTCH, and all Booksellers.
A Golden Shanty,
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and
Verse, by Bulletin Writers.
CONTENTS I
Verse : How he Died and The Last Bullet, by
Jcfhn Farrell—The Old Wife and the New, Mid-
summer in a Hawliesbury Valley, Two Sunsets
Dreams, Hail to the Dead, Even So, The First of
May, At the Opera, The - Ghost, and A Sunset
-b antasy, by V. J. Daley—ln Memoriam Marcus
Clarke, and Frank Denz, by Henry Kendall —
Old Pardon the Son of Reprieve, and Clancy of
the Overflow, by “The Banjo”—The Drivel of
Our lathers, by Jas. Edmond —Seen Again, by
E. Lowe M’Glllviray’s Dream, byThos. Bracken
Shadow-Hunting-, by Francis Myers—Faces.in
the Street, by Henry Lawson—The Song of To
jvooti, by Arthur Desmond—Peter and Paul —
At. Sandy Crossing, by J. M. Marsh.
BtiOSE : His Father’s Mate, by Henry Lawson
~Cp a Northern River, by J'as. Edmond—A
Golden Shanty, Mr. and Mrs. Sin Fat, and The
Washerwoman of Jaeker’s Flat, by F. Dyson-
North Queensland Journalism, by Titus Salt—
Do tween Two Bottles, by J.K.
Paper covers ; 171 pp. ; posted, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN” BOOK EXCHANCE.
„ , . , , .r,_ nr ;„p stated (which is published price with
On receipt at The Bulletin Office, Sydney, of Postal Order, Postal Notes, or Stamps (of any province) equal P addregs
postage added), Books and Periodicals in the subjoined lists will be forwarded to any Au
“Wandering Heath.”
That delectable writer, A. T. Quiller-
Couch, whom the reading public chiefly
know by his initial “Q.,” seems to have
definitely abandoned the struggle for fame.
Maybe it is marriage ; maybe century-end
weariness ; maybe his temperament indis-
poses him to
. . . crawl through life a paralytic
To win the praise of bard or critic.
But this incompetency for great efforts
seems to mark all the promising young men
of our time. Fancy a novelist nowa-
days undertaking the work which Thackeray
put into “ Esmond,” or George Eliot
into “ Romola ! ” Compare Kipling.
After one not too successful long
story, he has relapsed into literary
short-clothes —which are by no means as
gay as they used to be. “The Second
Jungle Book ” compares very unfavorably
with “ The Drums of the Fore and Aft,” or
“The Man Who Would be King.” And his
later stories —perhaps verses as -well—-seem
to lack the glow, the fervor, the inspiration
which we welcomed once. They are ingenious, *
admirably handled, interesting enough ; but
there is always lees story than workmanship.
This is true, also, of Gilbert Parker’s work.
His long stories are merely short stories spun
out ; and in spite of their delicacy and
beauty there is no power, no grip in them.
They want nothing but force in order to be
forcible—but this “ want ” is vital.
• * * *
There is J. M. Barrie, again. Have we
not had the cream of him in “My
Lady Nicotine ” and the Thrums sketches ?
“When a Man’s Single”—“The Little
Minister ” itself, with some of the most
delicious dialogue in English —these are not
the books we hoped for, the books he pro-
mised. In tiie opening chapters of his new
novel the eye catches the familiar traces of
weariness, of hard labor vainly trying to
reproduce the iridescent hues of vanished
fancy. The judgment is incautiously risked,
maybe, when the book is only just begun,
but ground for such judgment seems
already plain. And Stevenson —how keenly
he felt himself that all the art garnered and
lavished in his later years was unable to
match the bloom on his firstfruits ! And
Barry Pain, whose “ Story of a Beetle ”
struck a note akin to that of “African
Farm,” and nearly as strong —where is the
tale of triumphs which once there seemed
good reason to predict for him 1 And Olive
Schreiner herself—does not the long medita-
tion over her new book hint that she knows
it fails to reach the standard which her
beginnings set her %
**. * *
Half-a-dozen other names suggest them-
selves —brilliant in promise, woefully disap-
pointing in final performance. When one
counts-up in this fashion the permanent
results achieved by the fiction-writers at work
incur Time, one sees how great the early Vic-
torian giants really were. What vitality, what
depth, what fertility, had Scott, and Dickens,
and Thackeray, and George Eliot, to go
on producing book after book with fresh
plot, and fresh characters, and fresh scenery
which compelled admiration, often enthusiasm.
The generalisation must not be taken too
closely, but the idea is right. The authors
of to-day, like the racehorses, are sprinters,
who do their six-furlong short stories at
a marvellous pace, but never see the
end of a three-mile encounter. Meredith is
the last of the Titans. It seems the
same in France. How massive, how strong,
Hugo and Dumas look beside Maupassant
and Daudet ! Literature too may echo the
cry—Where are the builders of the Pyramids ?
* ♦ * *
This divagation seems not altogether out
of tune with “ Wandering Heath.” “ Q.’s ”
new book collects, as did “Noughts and
Crosses,” stories and sketches written for
the magazines—but there is a difference.
“ ‘ Noughts and Crosses ’ is the only book of
mine to which I attach any real value,” he is
reported to have said some time ago. Cer-
tainly, he has found nothing like those jewels
since ; and now it seems he never will. His
output is too quick and careless—though
probably meditation would not help
him. He has a book a year to his credit
since ’9l, and three or four over—readable
romances, readable sketches, readable
stories, piquant and pleasant to linger over,
good sometimes to return to, but always
io be kept a shelf below the Masters.
Perhaps another “Noughts and Crosses’
could be culled from the totality, but one is
doubtful. “The Bishop of Eucalyptus” in
ihe new volume (35., 45.) is praised by W.
L. Courtney, but it is merely an affectation
of Bret-Hartean pathos— dexterous and un-
impressive. Two really good things are
“ Wrestlers ” and “ Visitors at the Gunnel
Rock ’'—which have a touch of power to go
with “ Q.’s ” inevitable charm. The rest are
likeable and unsignificant.
“ Et s’il revenait.” — Versions received
from 6x8; L.M. ; Vie Manquee ; F.C. ;
,!.S. ; L.B. ; E.S. Consideration deferred to
give far-away translators opportunity.
Notes.
Louis Becke contributes some remini-
scences to Publisher Unwin’s gossiping
advertisement of the authors under his wing
(“Good Reading,” second series, Is. 3d.).
Of his “ stone-broke ” days Becke says :
Returning from the Islands, I could get nothing
to do for a long time, until a worthy German
gentleman at Manly Beach, near Sydney, gave me
employment at trenching and clearing scrub at
7s. 6d. per rood and <£3 per acre respectively. I
was very anxious to get back to the Islands again,
and whenever an Island trading vessel arrived in
Sydney, I would get away over to town in the
hope that I would meet some old comrade again.
(I may mention here that I did clear one acre of
scrub, and cost my employer about <£3 in tools.)
One day in Sydney I met an old friend—Ernest
Favenc, the explorer and author of “Tales of the
Austral Tropics.” He it was who first suggested
to me to write some tales of island life, and send
them to the Sydney Bulletin, and taking me
with him introduced me to the proprietors of that
paper. The result was the volume of stories
published under the title of “Byßeef and Palm.”
The stream of Stevenson small - talk,
nourished by the progress of “the Edinburgh
edition,” still murmurs in the English papers.
One learns without interest what the deceased
author ate and drank, and never ate or drank,
why he wore his hair and toes long, why he
cut his trousers short, and so on. Even
Stevenson’s admirers must weary of these
trivialities. No man should be asked to be a
valet to his hero.
“Clancy’s gone to Queensland droving
and we don’t know where he are.” Did
“ The Banjo’s ” line supply a refrain for the
song which a local music-hall manager calls
“Australia’s national anthem ” ? “ Clancy ”
was first published in The Bulletin Xmas
Number of ’B9, and a little later Francis
Adams quoted it in an English magazine
article. Hence, in all probability, fell the
germ which, flourishing in Cockney soil,
brought “ ’E dunno where ’e are ” to such
profitable fruitage.
When an Anglo-American war is talked of,
it is easy to see that the American proprietor
of an English newspaper may expect tribula-
tion. And millionaire Astor, who has
quarrelled a second time with Pall Mall
Gazette staff, insists strongly on the right
of every man to wallop his own editor.
Hence the second deluge which has swept
over Charing Cross road. Ex-editor Cook
founded the Westminster Gazette and pros-
pered ; but ex-editor Cust has no such open-
ing.
The most striking article in the New
Year’s number of the South African Review
(Gordon and Gotch, agents) deals with the
discrowned African dictator, Cecil Rhodes.
Here is a summation of Rhodes’s policy :
Mr. Rhodes’s chief present “ hobby ’’ —the word
is his own —is the political consolidation of South
Africa by the creation of a grand federated
dominion, under the British flag—somewhat on
the lines of the Canadian dependency. The Gape
Colony, lately enlarged by the annexation of
Pondoland and Southern Bechuanaland, is to form
the central as the oldest, best developed,
most thickly populated, and most accessible of the
combining territorial units. The Bechuanaland
Protectorate and Southern and Northern Rhodesia
are ripe for annexation, which may, in their case,
come about very shortly. Natal and Zululand
will inevitably find a common political denomi-
nator with the Cape in time to come, especially as
they have much to gain by combination with their
powerful neighbor. The Orange Free State
already tacitly recognises Her Majesty’s authority
in matters of external policy, and, closely con-
nected with the Cape by family and commercial
ties, should readily welcome a still closer partner-
ship arrangement. In the case of the Transvaal,
a very anomalous condition of things prevails.
The number of Boer males in the Republic
is probably about 15,000 ; the Uitlander
males may be computed at probably at
least 50,000. The machinery of the Govern-
ment is wholly in the hands of a Boer dictator in
the person of Paul Kruger, who is in turn directed
by a Hollander official named Dr. Leyds, the
Secretary of- State. Under this double regime
the Uitlander community—including practically
all the wealth and intelligence of the State—has
been misgoverned, over taxed, and generally
oppressed in the most outrageous manner. But
the handwriting is visible upon the wall. The
Transvaal may now be compared to a cone
balanced upon its apex, while the Uitlander base
is broadened by every passenger train that arrives
from the sea-boards. The cone must of necessity
topple over sooner or later, and a single word—
for which in time of crisis Johannesburg intently
listens-from Mr. Rhodes would subvert the
Transvaal constitution in 24 hours. Perhaps a
few shots might be fired, but the Boers would not
have the slightest chance against the Uitlanders
in their midst, to say nothing of the outside sup-
port—and what is important, the former are aware
of that fact. All of which is tantamount to say-
ing that the Transvaal’s future as an item in the
coining Federal Dominion is, humanly speaking,
fixed. i
The closing lines can be matched with others
in the English press to show that as early as
mid-December the Transvaal conspiracy was
whispered of in London. And this was a
friendly forecast of the issue ! Now —
Rhodes, discredited, has been thrust from
the Cape Premiership ; the Dutch party,
among his chief supporters, has turned
against him ; he has received a smart rap over
the knuckles from Salisbury ; his lieutenant
awaits a trial which ought to cost him his
life ; and he himself proposes to make amends
for the coup manque by the development of
Rhodesia on colossal lines. “ How are the
mighty fallen in the midst of tire battle ! ”
Bush Pictures.
(From Henry Lawson’s New Bool;.)
Hazell’s Annual for 1896 (4s 3d) is admir-
ably encyclopaedic concerning prominent
persons and tilings of the past year. Praise
for such a standard auxiliary to readers and
writers is superfluous. By way of criticism,
the editor may be urged to supply a crossed
and detailed index. The articles, he points
out with some air of feeling himself on his
defence, are alphabetically ranged, and carry
their index along with them.. But the pro-
portion of sub-heads per article, and sub-
references per subject, seems to grow con-
tinually larger, and through the wilderness
of these one wanders with much tribulation
in search of the promised landmark. A good
index would increase Hazell’s usefulness by
25 per cent.
Some of Percy Spence’s very best drawings
illustrate G. H. Gibson’s “ Ironbark Chips
and Stockwhip Cracks” (reduced to 3s.)—a
volume containing much excellent Gilbertian
verse with characteristic Australian color.
Ethel Turner’s ‘ ‘ Seven Little Australians, ”
and “ The Family at Misrule ” (like Louisa
Alcott’s stories), have been translated into
Dutch and published in Holland, but as
there is no copyright law between that
country and England she will benefit only
by increased fame. Miss Turner’s next book,
“ Shreds and Patches,” will collect her short
stories.
‘ ‘ Let us recognise the gifts and powers of
George Meredith, while we remain free to
acknowledge that still he is human : there-
fore, liable to have moments when his flight
is not so high, his meaning not so plain, his
message not so clear. It is, indeed, the
certain accompaniment of genius that there
are depressions as well as elevations. Homer
is not the only poet who sometimes nods.
Where the same level is maintained it must
be a low level. ” — National Observer.
The admission of arguments and articles
in favor of Protection, and of open and
covert sneers against Freetrade, into even
Tory British newspapers, shows significantly
whither public opinion is tending. Writes
G. R. Smalley in London Times :
“ The American . . . would say that
a wise legislator, while not assuming
that war is the normal condition of any
country in modern times, must nevertheless
regard''it as a condition which he is bound to
provide for, and that Protection is just as
legitimate as any other tax levied in time of
peace for maintaining an army or navy. He
would point to the United States as a country
where but for Protection there would be
manufactures of neither iron nor steel; where
but for Protection not a gun nor an armour-
clad ship could have been built. Such a
country, he would insist, would in time of
war be practically defenceless, or would be
dependent on foreign countries for the means
of defence, and would not be sure whether,
having no command of the seas, she could
import guns or ships or not.” Would the
Times ten years ago —five years ago —have
permitted its New York correspondent to
put the Protectionist case even thus cautiously
and hypothetically ?
THE DROVER’S SWEETHEART.
An hour before the sun goes down
Behind the ragged boughs,
I go across the little run
And bring the dusty cows;
And once I used to sit and rest
Beneath the fading dome,
For there was one that I loved best
Who’d bring the cattle home.
Our yard is fixed with double bails,
Round one the grass is green,
The bush is growing through the rails,
The spike is rusted in ;
And ’twas from there his freckled face
Would turn and smile at me —
He’d milk a dozen in the race
While I was milking three.
I milk eleven cows myself
Where once I milked but four,
I set the dishes on the shelf
And close the dairy door ;
And when the glaring sunlight fails
And the fire shines through the cracks,
I climb the broken stockyard rails
And watch the bridle-tracks.
He kissed me twice and once again
And rode across the hill —
The pint-pots and the hobble-chain
I hear them jingling still;
He’ll come at night or not at all,
He left in dust and heat,
And when the soft, cool shadows fall
It would be nice to meet.
And he is coming back again ;
He wrote to let me know ;
The floods were in the Darling then —
It seems so long ago ;
He’d come through miles of slush and mud,
And it was weary work ;
The creeks were bankers, and the flood
Was forty miles round Bourke.
He said the floods had formed a block,
The plains could not bo crossed,
And there was foot-rot in the flock
And hundreds had been lost;
The sheep were falling thick and fast,
A hundred miles from town,
And when he reached the line at last
He trucked the remnant down.
And so he’ll have to stand the cost,
His luck was always bad,
Instead of making more, he lost
The money that he had ;
And how he’ll manage, heaven knows !
(My eyes are getting dim),
He says—he says—he don’t—suppose
I’ll want —to —marry —him.
As if I wouldn’t take his hand
Without a golden glove ;
O ! Jack—you men won’t understand
How much a girl can love.
I long to see his face once more . . .
Jack’s dog ! thank God, it’s Jack !
(I never thought I’d faint before)
He’s coming—up—the track.
ANDY’S GONE WITH CATTLE.
WHEN THE CHILDREN COME HOME.
Our Andy’s gene to battle now
’Gainst Drought, the red marauder :
Our Andy’s gone with cattle now
Across the Queensland border.
He’s left us in dejection now ;
Our hearts with him are roving.
It’s dull on this selection now,
Since Andy went a-droving.
Who now will wear a cheerful face
In times when things are slackest?
And who will whistle round the place
When Fortune frowns her blackest?
Oh, who will cheek the squatter now
When he comes round us snarling ?
His tongue is growing hotter now
Since Andy crossed the Darling.
The gates are out of order now,
In storms the “ riders ” rattle ;
For far across the border now
Our Andy’s gone with cattle.
Poor Aunty’s looking thin and white ;
And Uncle’s cross with worry ;
And poor old Blucher howls all night
Since Andy left Macquarie.
Oh, may the showers in torrents fall,
And all the tanks run over ;
And may the grass grow green and tall
In pathways of the drover ;
And may good angels send the rain
On desert stretches sandy ;
And when the summer comes again
God grant ’twill bring us Andy.
On a lonely selection far out in the West
An old woman works all the day without rest
And dome r °° nS ’ aS She t0 ' 1S ' n6£rth 3ky ’ s
Sure I’ll keep the ould place till the childer
come home. ’
She mends all the fences, she grabs, and she
ploughs, ”
She drives the old horse and she milks all thecovrs
And she sings to herself as she thatches the stack"
Sure 111 keep the ould plaoe till the childer
come back. 5 un
It is five weary years since her old husband died
And oft as he lay on his deathbed he sighed ’
Sure one man can bring up ten children, he can
An that ten sons cannot keep one old
fl
Whenever the scowling old sundowners come
And cunningly ask if the master’s at home
cam! feP leS ’ “ Wlth your b femey and
Or I’ll call my son Andy ; he’s workin’ beyant.”
“Git out! ” she replies, though she trembles with
For she lives all alone and no neighbors are near;
But she says to herself when she’s like to despond,
That the boys are at work in the paddock beyond.
Ah, none of her children need follow the plough,
And some have grown rich in the city ere now;
Yet she says : “ They might come when the shear-
ing is done,
And I'll keep the ould place if it’s only for one.”


Medical,
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEAItNE. —Dear Sir, —Your medicine has
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily
improved as I continued the treatment, until I became,
as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER,
Balmain, Sydney.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, and the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used and
plasters were applied to the back and chest without
success.
“ I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about
10 days he was perfectly cured.—J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S. W.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”—Signed
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the proprietor,
W. G HEARNE,
CHEMIST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. 6d. Sold by
chemists and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
I R
[Canadian
[WORTH ITSWEIGHTINGQLp
AIN ceases, swellings subside, fevers abate
and a healthy state exists after using this
great and wonderful medicine. It is the
cheapest medicine ever made. One dose cures
Sore Throat, one bottle has cured Bronchitis,
50 cents worth has cured an old-standing Cough,
one bottie has cured Lame Back of eight years’
standing
It has performed astonishing cures, and has
given satisfaction every time it has been used.
It Does Not merely allay pain and soreness
to return again, as most medicines do, but the
efficacy of the ingredients from which it is made
are so wonderfully penetrating that a proper use
of it will most certainly remove all stiffness of
the joints, lameness of the muscles, and pain
arising from any cause ; even in spinal disease,
a chronic form of which baffles all treatment, a
frequent use of
Canadian Healing; Oil
will give strengthand freedom from pain derived
from no other source.
For Sale by Chemists and Medicine
Dealers at Is. 3d.
PROPRIETORS,
NORTHROP & LYMAN GO., TORONTO, CANADA,
AUSTRALASIAN DEPOT, 15 BRIDCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES.— MADAM HEDBURG’S unfailing American
Female Remedy Restores Regularity without stomach
medication, no matter what cause or how long standing
Send stamped addressed envelope for full particulars. F.
H. De Leon, Agent, 78 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Medical.
4
%
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
of N.S. \V. and N.Z.)
Whose new and scientific treatment, by purifying
and enriching the blood, gives new life and tone
to the whole nervous and muscular systems, and
builds up a new constitution in the most enfeebled.
The first week of treatment brings glad relief, and
perseverance ensures a thorough and lasting
cure.
Mr IVJ suffering from Nervousness and
EL Debility, Exhaustion, Sperma-
torrhoea, Varicocele and Private Diseases, should
try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies.
Young Men and those Who Wish
to Marry,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from debility, should
consult him, for he is now enabled, quickly and
effectually, to remove the cause, and so prevent
life-long misery.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing
their troubles in detail, be treated at home. The
course of treatment will not in any way interfere
with their business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive
a straightforward and candid opinion of the case,
and the possibility of a cure. If the patient is
curable, fie will tell him so, if not, he will also tell
him. He undertakes no case which he cannot
cure.
sm- Medicines sent securely packed and free
from observation to any part of the colonies.
womenT"
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle-aged and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire confidence
and success.
FEMALE FILLS for irregularities and ob-
structions. 10s. and 20s. per box. Guaranteed.
29 York-st., Wynyard Square, Sydney-
ARE YOU SUFFERING
From weakness of the Nervous System, loss of Noble
Manhood through early errors or excesses. If so, write
to me and I will send you an absolute cure. Address,
Private, P. 0., Box 347, Sydney.
MEDICINE SENT FREE
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £1 ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 399, Sydney.
MANHOOD RESTORED !
In the very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore you to health and vigout, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how had the case may he.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
riching the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the greatest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, 1 wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Established 1878.]
MW
tulti
PRESCRIPTIONS
Are to be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE ” for the Speedy Cure of Nerv-
ousness, Debility, Lost Manhood, and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book
will be sent Free, sealed for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S- WARD AND CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
XT MAY BE SELDOM
That Medical Advertisements can be relied on, but we here assert the following facts, which can be
borne out from Testimonials in our possession. Thousands may see this, and treat it as some
announcements deserve, but in this they would make a great mistake,
AND FOR THIS REASON :
by taking notice of what we have already done and can do, as proved by thousands of grateful
acknowledgments of our skill which we hold, it may Save Your Life and that of your dear ones.
Has auy Person Living
ffISP
' ■
jpi§!
fc
§r
■
%11§
;■■• w\
CURED 344 cases*of ERYSIPELAS,
each case in 24 hours, and Never
Failed in One Case? We have. Or
HYDATIDS for 15 years, and Never
Failed; or BRIGHT'S DISEASE,
which is supposed to be incurable ;
or RINGWORM in Half a Minute ;
or ever actually cured the LIVER
and KIDNEYS in their Worst States
of Disease; or MARASMUS in Chil-
dren after All Hopes had been Given
Up by all the best medical men ; or
YELLOW JAUNDICE when life was
despaired of; or ECZEMA alter 35
years' suffering-, or ASTHMA after
25 years’ standing ; or DEBILITY at
58 years or any age? We answer—
WE HAVE CURED ALL
DISEASES,
and we repeat again, WE HAVE ;
and can also CURE Scurvy, Bad
Legs, Piles, Diphtheria, and remove
WORMS of all Sorts (Tape, Ring, and
Thread). We cure at once Itch,
Barbers’ Itch, Coughs, Colds, Bron-
chitis, Catarrh in the Head, Blight
and other Diseases of the Eves,
Varicose Veins, Deafness, and auy
other diseases,
WHEN ALL OTHER TREAT-
MENT FAILS.
We say again WE HAVE, and having
established a Branch of our Melb.
House in Sydney, we ask the people
of N.S.W. to TRY US and See for
Themselves the Wonderful Remedies
WE HAVE.
OUR REMEDIES ARE SAFE, SURE, AND MODERATE IN PRICE.
W. MENTIPLAY & SON.
505 i GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, & 188 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrallv-situated
Electrical & Consulting liooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Yount) Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, he.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE - PO UNP> is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
iq the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands Of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH
Y.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
jnNGLAND VIA AMERICA
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their iourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £66 to £67 10s.
Combination Ticket, ... £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3l 19s. 7d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Passenger Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
BATAVIA, and JAPAN.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O, including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Passage Money can be paid here for passages from
Europe. Liberal concessions to families.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage, <tc., through the
Customs, and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ Luggage conveyed free of cost front
Marseilles to London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Medical.
ANGER AND TUMOURS^
A Wonderful and Natural Remedy
—.FOR,—
Cancers and Tumours.
Pamphlet on the Subject post free on receipt of
4d. in Stamps. References.
Apply: A. M‘KEE and CO.,
City Medical Hall, Adelaide-st., BRISBANE.
Markell’s Pills.
A boon to the suffering, the friend of the household. These
wonderful herbal Pills quickly cure in either sex, all liver,
stomach, bowel and kidney complaints, constipation, biliousness
headaches, &c., blood diseases and female complaints,
Markell’s Pills act like magic on the liver, stomach,
bowels and kidneys, stimulate and strengthen all the vital
organs of the body, purify the blood and restore the bloom of
health, I f you are ailing (no matter what cause) try these pills
and you’ll bless the day you did so. Sold at all chemists and
grocers in the world, Is. per box, with full directions. Use them
totce and you'll never be ‘without them.
LADIES!!!
Should consult thf
Kminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
29 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
DR. SPEER
Female Pills for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s. per lv.x.
euaranteed O.J<.
Ladies-
_ Parisian Female Powders restore regu-
“larity and remove obstructions without
fail in 48 hours. No obstruction can resist them, and they
never leave any bad after effects. Price 7/6., posted any
colony. Write “SPECIALIST,” G.P.O., Melbourne.
V\N
%
$
Will Cure
WHEN
Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Belts to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, HOW-
EVER POOR, need be with-
' out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address —
Dr* Lamont Electric Belt Co M
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
UNTo Cure, W o 3Pay,
belt
/TiHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
-L cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stage*,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise. , . . . , ~
NOTlCE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address —
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY


Business Announcements.
HAIKDItESSEItS AND WIGMAKEUS.
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from our pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBEES' SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 *V 682 George Street, Sydney.
Medical.
The Eminent Specialist in all Nervous Diseases.
Registered in England and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
newest American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable hook. Send
Six Stamps at once. Write your case freely
and confidentially. The charge of ONE
POUND ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace
for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about getting Married ?
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment, and receive prompt
reply:—Depression of spirits, bashfulness, inability to
look frankly into the eyes of another, headache, hair
coming out, dim sight, noises in head and ears, weak
memory, forgetting persons, names, places, etc., loss
of voice, taste, or smell, sunken eyes, pimples on face,
paleness of face and lips, looks old for years, stunted
in growth, palpitation of heart, pain in or under breast-
bone, shortened breath, indigestion, with depression
after food, constipation or irregular bowels, flatulency,
gravel, weakness or pain across small of back, loss of
muscular power, afraid of something going to happen,
distorted sleep, moaning, talking, grinding teeth,
tearful or.want to laugh. Dr. WALLACE, Box 52
Post Office, Park-street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dr. G-eorge On Lee,
Chinese Doctor,
23 CARLTON TERRACE, WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
A LL persons suffering from any Internal Diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have them
dispersed by medicine without cutting. Also CURES
Bad Eyes, Fits and Skin Diseases. He asks no questions,
hut will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs his
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise. Has prac-
tised 25 years in Sydney. Consultation Fee, 10/6.
Health
V.
Disease
A Valuable Book FOR MEN,
containing positive proofs,
Doctor's evidence, reference,
and explains an absolute and
Perfect Cure for Lost Manhood,
Premature Decline, Func-
tional Disorders, Kidney and
Bladder Diseases, &c.
Nearly One Hundred pages.
This Scientific Medical Treatise Posted for 6 Stamps.
Address—APOTHECARIES’ DISPENSARY,
506 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
gLOPD POISON
A SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
lor Tertiary KLOOII POISON per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You can
Ibe treated at home for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
here we will contract to pay railroad and
steamship fare and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge, if we fail to cure. If you have taken
mereury, iodide potash, and still have aches
and pains, Mucous Patches in the mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots, di-
cers on any part of the body, Hair or Eyebrows
falling out, it is this Secondary BLOOD POI-
SON we guarantee to cure. We solicit the most
obstinate cases and challenge the world for
a case we cannot cure. Physicians cannot
cure you. $500,000 capital behind our uncondi-
tional guaranty. Absolute proofs sent sealed on
application. Address COOK. REMEDY CO.,
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., U, S. A.
p«
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
By the ARTIFICIAL EAR CUSHIONS.
Comfortable to wear and Invisible. Illustrated book
of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M.
NAST, Burke and Wills Chambers, Collins-st., MELB.
READ THIS.
ELECTRIC BELT FREE.
How to Obtain It.
To introduce it and obtain Agents we will give away
a few of our £2 Belgian Electric Belts for Ner-
vousness, Rheumatism,, Loss of Vitality, etc., etc.
Write to H. W. RUMMANS, Agent, 10 Imperial
Chambers, 91 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Stamp for Reply. Don’t Miss This.
EXCELSIOR
NICOTINE
LIQUID
NO MORE POISONING!
DIP
COST
ABSOLUTELY DESTROYS TICKS and LICE.
CURES and PREVENTS SCAB and FOOTROT.
A Farthing' per Sheep.
NICOTINE MANGE CURE (in Bottles) i-pts., 1/6; pints, 2/6 each,
NICOTINE BLIGHT CURE (in Bottles) |-pts., 1/6 ; pints, 2/6 eac i.
Weber, Lohmann & Co.
Melbourne —Sialto, Collins-st.
Sydney—63 Pitt Street.
AGENCIES
THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES.
COUGHS.
SPEEDY RELIEF and CURE.
TAKE
]3ONNINGTONS
(Registered) Irish 3loss
—FOR —
COUGHS,
COLDS,
INFLUENZA,
ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS,
VOICE,
THROAT, and all
LUNG COMPLAINTS.
BOMINGTON’S Irish Moss
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
bonningtons
Liver Pills .
Valuable Cure
FOB
BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,
DIZZINESS,
TORPID LIVER.
Prized by all who have tried them-
]>ONMN<JTOXS
„„„ Liver Tonic
GENERAL DEBILITY
And NERVOUS IRRITABILITY,
HE \RTBURN,
KIDNEY DISEASES,
And all Derangements of Liver.
Dll''
... —I
iMSS
agates
TOBACCO C?
CLEVELAND STREET SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
Prof- Loisette’s Assimilative MemoryT
Or, How to Attend and Never Forget,
Established nearly a quarter of a Century. Incomparable
for students and business people. No artificial, mechani-
cal or “ locality ” “associations,” hut Assimilation only.
Taiurlit by mail in ONE BOOK (instead of Six, as formerly
used) from this permanent BRANCH only. All agencies
have been abolished. Questions at bottom of page help
out like oral lectures. Endorsed by well-known people in
all civilised countries. For Testimonials and Terms
address—Prof. A. Loisette, P.O. Box 1234, Sydney, N.S. w’
1ATATORIUM,
400 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE GRANDEST SWIMMING BATHS IN
AUSTRALIA.
Sea Water Swimming Baths and Hot Sea and
Fresh-Water Plunge Baths.
Open on week dags for gentlemen from (i a.m.
to 9 2>.m,, and on Sundays till Noon.
PLUNGE BATHS and a Small Swimming
Bath for LADIES DAILY.
S w i m m ing Taught.
R'lV A Fresh Supply of Sea-water Daily.
B URNS IT BRIGHT,
148 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIAL
Wood Burning Stove.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
“ T/i e Aus ’rails, 99
~
Hums 20in. ivood,
'‘gV s J?ouci
(ENHY ffCATH’3
TRADE MARK
&QS-T t£ GTOOXr
GK H. SMITH & SON
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOK AUSTRALIA.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHiLDREN S sweet)
f£V Lancet. Ak B "., -'
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
1
PPorthington Pumping Engine Company ,
WORTHINGTON TRIPLE EXPANSION SURFACE
CONDENSING PUMPING ENGINE.
(HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE)
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
trade Mark.
Victorian Agency-Sturt-street, South Melbourne.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
A.e the Recognised Standard ot PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
IRRIGATION
SINKING
MINING
CREAMERIES
SUITABLE FOR
GARDEN SUPPLIES
WOOL SCOURING
WOOL DUMPING
WATER SUPPLIES
SEWERAGE
MARINE
TANK FILLING
BOILER FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
9
To be obtained at
all Clubs, Hotels, and Wine Merchants
if specially ordered,
SODA WATER, &c.
These Waters
we Supplied to the Queen,,


Try Anthony Hordern’s
Follow the lead of tens of thousands if you are
in the outside division ; while, if you are of the
chosen people, do as you have done before. We
have everything you can wish for. Whether you
are a man of 80, one foot in the grave ; or a young
fellow of 18, with plenty of pocket money and a
waggon-load of expectations —we are the people
who can please you right up to the hilt. A nice
little bit of ’BACCA or a dandy SUIT OF
CLOTHES ; warmth and comfort for your de-
clining years, or dainty solitaires for cuffs and
GIVE IT A NAME !
You can get it at our Store. A pound of
PAINT to furbish up the garden fence, a ton of
Iron to build a stable with, a SADDLE for your
nag, a DOLL for your daughter, a BONNET for
your wife, a CRADLE for baby, a PAIR of
GLOVES for your sweetheart, a TRICYCLE for
that nipper of nine, and anything else you may
happen to want; good things for lining your
carcass inside ? and correct arrangements for out-
side. There is no limit to the conveniences of our
Store ; there is no end to the List of our Wares.
WE SELL EVERYTHING.
We have the honor of serving many thousands
every day, and delightedly record expressions of
unlimited satisfaction at our treatments. We
serve old friends, whose familiar faces remind us
of our youth, and sometimes when some well-
remembered form is missed, the sad thought
comes that one day or other all must pass away.
Then new faces come upon the scene, and young
faces, bringing evidence of our continued popu-
larity. From
GENERATION TO GENERATION
the children are likeminded with their parents,
sons and daughters, grandsons and grand-
daughters, one and all finding their way to the old
store. Pardon this little digression from ordinary
paths, but there are times, even in the most
practical moments, when sentiment asserts its
sway.
Anyhow, your best plan will be to do your
SHOPPING AT
ANTHONY HORDERN’S.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
SYDNEY.
hires’
Hoot beer
m 3
j Glass!
Quick!
I There's lots of soap anil
I vim In this Hires'
1 Rootbeer. There’s lots
of pleasure and good
I health in it, too. A de-
» licious drink, a temper-
J ance drink, a home-
I made drink, a drink
I that delights the old
“ and young. Be sure
and get the genuine
jHlßES’Rootbeer
| A Is. package makes 5 frallons Sold Everywhere.
■WHOLESALE AGENTS FOB AUSTRALIA— !
SHIRLEY, CLAYTON, & Co.,
uiuiuiumumim SYDNEY. tiuumiimniinnnJ
Artificial Teeth, £5.
COMPLETE (Upper and Lower) Gold Medal Sets
of perfectly - fitting Teeth, £5. Mastication
guaranteed. These are the best and lowest in price
made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
gums. Old misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering with own
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate
after if wanted. Painless extractions daily by nitrous
oxide or cocaine. Fee, ss. No danger or ill-effects
follow. Send for Treatise on Teeth.
Consultations Free. Fees precisely the same as adver-
tised. Mention this paper.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist,
New Address-
-28 WYNYARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert’s), SYDNEY.
Aojs.
Designed
Displayed
and Electrotyped B y us
.. TIP-TOP
STYLE
F. T. UIIID3CE & CO.
EXPERTS IN
Advertisement Display
87 Clarence-st., Sydney.
TRY US
One
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar ... * Proprietor.
56
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ELDBinDQB & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOItK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
£435 IN PRIZES.
Amykos Educational Competition.
For Circular giving Particulars, apply to C. A.
FALSTEDT, 87 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
V X
r #
V<
-S5Ss nil
RESTORES
Color, Fullness, and Beauty
TO HAIR
Which has become Wiry, Thin, or Gray.
It cures Itching Humors, and keeps the scalp cool,
moist, healthy, and
FREE FROM DANDRUFF.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor is an elegant toilet article,—a
favorite with ladies and gentlemen alike.
It imparts to the hair, beard, and mous-
tache a beautiful silkiness, and a delicate
and lasting fragrance.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
All Druggists and. Perfumers.
fW ßeware of cheap imitations. The name— Ayer— is prominent on the
wrapper, and is blown in the glass at the bottom of each bottle.
2E3 U WARDS'
'•■VEt
9ft
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer $ Restorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
mm
mmmm
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
Tiib World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1 /-, 2/6 and(triple 2/6size)4-6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN. LONDON, W.C.
r / '- f
CORNETS.
F. BESSON &. CO.'S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n., £l2 12/-
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins=st.,
Melbourne.
AGENT FOR F. BESSON & CO. THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
Dr. Keith’s
PRIZE ]VEE33AL
Baking Powder
Is the IFLeaA Thing.
TRY IT.
m- AND HAVE SOME GENUINE BAKING POWDER EOR A CHANGE. V 5&
Giikspies Flaked “ Grainea
Ts the Most Perfect PO it It IDO K POOD ever Invented.
Freetrade Prices.
Wholesale Only.
BEST ASSORTED STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
Walthams & Rotherhams
A SPECIALITY. Intercolonial and Country Buyers treated liberally.
PRICES ON APPLICATION. „ _
Lazarus, Aronson & Co.,
2 WYNYARD STREET, Sydney.
Great Distribution of the Lisson Estate
consisting of Sydney Suburban and Country Freehold Properties
of 119,000 Shares at 10s.
obar
at
ue
on 15th
Bankers: BANK
£50,505.
2 896.
-j*lre Ballot will absolutely take place
Trustees : Hon. ALEX. KETHEL, M.L.C. ; J. S. M'GOWEN, M.L.A. ; Hon. S. E. LEES
or Property "to To g J—^
First Prize, <£12,850 ; Second Prize, £ 10,000 ; Third Prize, <£4120 ; Fourth Prize, iMOfO FifthHrizhT<£2Boo ; Sixth Prize, <£L4oO ; Seventh Prize, <£l3oo.
of Properties. For SHARES and Information apply to p pjSSON, HOBART, TASMANIA ;or to
N. J. LISSON, POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, who will act as Agent for the Estate in New South Wales.
OF AUSTRALASIA.
See Prospectus for detailed particular
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A BACKBLOCKS MONOLOGUE.
1 have come through the red of the sundown
To the township down here in the West;
My nerves and my system have run down—
I need a good tonic and rest.
When a man’s only comrades are cattle,
His brain seems to turn a bit queer,
So I’ve come from the station to battle
With the brandy they give you down here.
It reeks of tobacco, this brandy,
And sulphur, and similar stuff ;
But there’s no other beverage handy,
And my throat is—thank God —pretty tough.
Hi, Larry, you blessed emetic !
Why the deuce don’t you drink what you sell ?
Fill up two, you red-headed ascetic !
You’ve got to be poisoned as well.
My brain it comes back with the spirits—
By the Lord, I’ve been nearly insane !
This bush stuff has its own proper merits,
Since it gives me iny soul back again.
It’s a passport to Hell; but the Devil
Is bound to look after his own ;
And “ of goodness the soul in things evil ” —
Oh, hang it! let Shakespeare alone.
The lightning is chained in this liquor—
I can feel it in all of my veins ;
My speech grows perceptibly thicker,
And I keep my feet steady with pains.
How goes the old text ? “ He that arinketh
Consumed shall he be like the chaff ! ”
Behold my left eye, how it winketh !
Oh, noble bush whisky ! I laugh.
How the friends of my boyhood would sorrow
To see me out here on the tank !
One is living on what he can borrow,
And one drives a quill in a bank,
And one has been really successful—
He’s a grocer and mayor of his town—
Larry, darlin’, my stomach’s distressful:
Why doesn’t your liquor keep down ?
Just think what I’ve missed by my riot !
I, too, might have stopped in the shade,
Been respectable, sober, and quiet,
While I cheated my neighbors in trade,
And went into church with a “ topper ”
On my shiny, dishonest old brow.
“ Ah, my friends, what a fall, what a cropper ! ”
So they say when they talk of me now.
I’m blind-drunk, and I’m sick, and —let’s grant it—
A spectacle sad to behold;
But I haven’t sold sugar that’s sanded,
Or fattened on other men’s gold.
My sole “ trick of trade ” is a ruse to
Procure a stray drink when I’m broke;
But I’ll meet all the friends that I used to
When I’m sitting in state on the coke.
Here, you teetotal child of the prophet,
I want you to put me to sleep.
Not up there on the bench (I’d fall off it),
But down here where the carpet-bugs creep.
And my brave ginger-pated Mohammed
(The allusion is lost on the man),
When you’re shutting the door, please don’t slam
it;
Let my rest be as sweet as it can.
Let me sleep just as long as I’m able,
And, in case I should be in the way,
You may bundle me under the table
When you’re sweeping the bar for the day.
Take my cheque from my pocket, and splash it
With all of the boys that drop in :
It’s the handiest method to cash it,
And the very best use for the tin.
Vic.
w.
A VICARIOUS SACRIFICE.
The slow goods-train wound over the waste
With its freight of station stores,
The guard’s van jolted my weary bones
And rattled its crazy doors.
And far to the left, and far to the right,
And far as the eye could scan
There was never a hut to ease the sight,
And never a sign of man.
This side a mirage, and away to north
The guard espied a tree ;
From my lonely musing he drew me forth
To the platform end, to see.
“ MacDowell hung on that mulga bough ;
I cut him down,” he said ;
“ You’ve heard the yarn of his girl, and how
He brooded, and lost his head.”
“ I read of it, guard. Poor girl! her lot
Is her own with none to share ;
No flames of hell can be half as hot
As the shame she has to bear. ”
The guard laughed loud, with a glorious glee,
He laughed with a tickling charm—
“ MacDowell hangs on the mulga tree,
The girl on her husband’s arm.
“ She’s as fresh as paint, and she’s doing fine,
She’s gay as a colt in spring,
She married a fellow up the line
And they live in Linkeering.”
“ And what of the villain ? ” “ Going strong ;
And proud as a man should be ! ”
I said, “ How long, O Lord ! how long ! ”
Said the guard—“ About two foot three.
And it’s a beauty. There’s no flies
On it, as the papers show,
For yesterday week it took first prize
At the Mandoorie Baby Show. ”
The game’s as old as humanity,
It will cease when you stop the sun,
But MacDowell hangs on the mulga tree—
The others get all the fun.
Queensland.
G.


Australian Mutual Provturnt Sogtftv
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established M ' AA/AJJAI A AA .
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy Chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ;.A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.; ROBT. J. KING, Esq.
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ANNUAL INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Twelve Millions and a-Half Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1894 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £428,021
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £850,000.
Head Office : 8 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
A. Good Carver wants a good knife. We think we have
as good a stock of Cutlery as any house
in Sydney, and we want your opinion
about our think. Call on us if you
want anything in this line, or anything
else in Hardware. Have just landed
the new L.F. and C. Bread Knife, which
is a revelation, price 1/3 —the old style
has now got to go. Razors, hollow
ground, from 1/6 upwards.
M‘Lean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 512-14 George-st., Sydney.
PARKER’S
AUSTRALIAN
Hair Preserver.
PURITY. EXCELLENCE.
A Marvellous Remedy for the Hair
and Scalp.
Promotes Growth.
Removes "Dandruff.
USE IT AND NEVER BECOME BALD.
Remember: Prevention is Better than Cure.
Ladies will find it a perfect boon. It is nob a dye.
It is not sticky or greasy. One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
-A-11 Chemists, 3s. 6d.
By Post, 4s. 3d.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Australian Drug
Co.; Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., etc., etc.
Sole Agent: J. Curtin, 84 Market-st., Sydney.
i 486.488 & 490 GEORGE STREET. I
«vmnvi
SNriDiuriE'sr.
MEN’S MERCERS, OUTFITTERS, ETC.
Austral Sac Suit ( made to measure), 455.
From KAIAPOI, OAMARU, GEELONG, SCOTCH, and the Best N.S.W. TWEEDS.
SERGERETTES, BLACK & INDIGO CORKSCREWS & SERGES.
PATTERNS, MEASURE FORM and TAPE-POST FREE.
Send for Detail Price List. All Carriage Paid.
IROJk-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machine)’!/.
f{
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “ THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.
WHITELAW & CO.,
155 Swanston-street, Melbourne, BOOT & SHOE MANUFACTURERS,
On receipt of remittance forward, carriage paid to any address in Victoria (other colonies, 1/- extra),
any of their specialties in Boots and Shoes, catalogues of which will
be sent on application. Their Hand-made Boots do not creak, are
flexible in the sole, have no nails, pegs, or tacks whatever to wound
the foot, they do not require breaking in, being smooth and clean
inside.
The RATIONAL, a strong, serviceable country boot
~ UNIVERSITY, a town walking and business boot
~ HORSE-SKIN, a wide-welt, first-class winter boot
~ American-dressed Russia and Ooze Calf Boots
MACHINE-SEWN BOOTS from 10s. 6d.
16/-
21/-
22/6
21/-
Whether you live one mile or
1000 away, we guarantee to fit
you. Our Self - measurement
System is perfect. Write us for
Patterns. Self - measurement
Forms and Tape. Free postal
delivery any distance. Serges
specially manufactured for us by
one of the leading home houses
from 455.
S. M. BAUMASHE,
Manager.
London & Melbourne Tailoring Co.
31 & 33 Ekskine Street. SYDNEY.
m
H S
0 M
p
(I)
c+
0
0
455.
Business Announcements.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFE-LIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes“ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest practices in the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most effective and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, -A'. S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
It/TR. AUBREY DAVIS, Dentist, of 492 George-
street (Royal Arcade), SYDNEY, has spared no
expense in fitting-up his luxurious consulting rooms with
the latest dental appliances. The Operating Chair is a
work of art, in which the patient can be raised, lowered,
or placed in any required position by hydraulic power.
Extraction is performed painlessly without Ether or
Chloroform, by spraying the gum with a new local
anesthetic—“ Chloride of Ethyl.” Artificial teeth of the
best quality are fitted at prices not much more than half
the rates commonly charged a few years ago.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 GEORGE STREET,
S Y D W E Y.
Specialties JUST ARRIVED for the XMAS
Trade.
H. L. Hutchinson ... Manager.
T
H E
LAST OF SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d,
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH a COLONIAL COMPANyT
THE
City Mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY, limited.
HEAD
OFFICE
95
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Chairman:
JOHN SEE Esq., M.P. (late Colonial Treasurer.)
The CITY MUTUAL Fire Company is a purely
Australian institution, having a large and in-
fluential body of shareholders, all closely identified
with and contributing to the prosperity of Aus-
tralia. All funds invested in the colony. Rates
are lowest. Settlements prompt and equitable,
A Cash Bonus paid Insurers every year.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
K3T Transacts FIRE insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., .£8478— divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making £82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Tire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office : 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
RESERVE & INVESTMENT FUNDS, £117,020.
UNCALLED CAPITAL, £75,000.
PURELY a COLONIAL OFFICE, deriving
its income from New South Wales only, no risks
being taken outside the colony.
A BONUS of 20 PER CENT, has been paid
annually since 1873, divided between Policy-
holders and Shareholders. The amount thus dis-
tributed totals £118,651.
Claims promptly and liberally settled. FIF-
TEEN DAYS’ GRACE allowed for Renewal
of Policies—a protection afforded by no other
Fire Insurance Company.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office :
Corner Pitt & King Streets, Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Passenger Policies for Travellers In-
suring against Accidents & Shipwreck.
Australian Branch: W. M'Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide: P. P. Plummer. L. A. Jessop, Director.
Melbourne: D. Clyne. Brisbane: T. Welsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
58 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
'
1
V
Mi
■ -
Adopted bv DUSOKiSOKS.rortheir ■
VtAp||<eE e, “nol)DLE o .'
“YANKEE DOODLF ”
anvtMnw n 6l " 6 ’’ ai \ d ' fc bas won # rea ter success a , s tbe nest! plug-tobacco that has evei
This is no idle boast l?* the S - hort tilnfe it has been on the market than
has this ven'ri owns N.S.W. where “YANKFF ''nnonit??! smoker can test the statement, for
Simulv that one hundred (100) ner ;PCODLE is not known and sold. Its sale
vears I^ ^DOODLE” has struck the,? nt i° Ver tbat of l ast year. And why is this?
exouisitelv fl i vr, stl \ f y ’ rom a combination of pprt'>?° PU u a^ taS a?‘ ? n . the first place, it comes, after
forced to admit thVPi’ t i lat an .V smoker who can stanr? 1 ? 6 irginian tobaccos, so blended and
been accustomed tP mvc-e last discovered f toba ° co heavier than the pure gold-leaf is
555il PJLW ‘SONS have S n h o"it,,? n Ar, ay b ?‘“ ‘hen anything he has
make the foLrain,, ,L »P ™ ‘heir reputation (i oUAT.TTV 5! 00mpIl ft tb ? ’ l“ d J f
übt existed. DIXSON they COuld . not afford to
make the foregoing state meniif 1 u P T their reputation for QUAITTV a ° fchi ® = and ! f 9
than all the other Tobv ,'! doubt exi sted. DIXSON 1 ey CoUld ? 0t
QUEROR ” “ mjl> ~ ct^' les combined are rioted f & bONS ,> ,'X ho use more American leaf
ranks supreme K ° GEK ’ “CHAMPION,” and high-class brandsCON-
m ’ ana DOLLAR;” but “YANKEE DOODLE’


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by pest as a Newspaper.
Vot. 17.—N0. 836.
SATU RDAY, FTCRRFA RY 22. 1»96.
Prick, 6d.
“ON A FIRM FREETRADF BASTS."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Proprietors and Publishers :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. (Limited).
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• £ ?
Half-yearly ... ... ••• na ft
Quarterly... ... ... ••• U o o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One 1 ound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province, you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to
interfere
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event, will
be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture containing
a good or adaptable idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also :— lt. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S, Australia, Westralia and Maoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is now £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage . England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
7%e
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1896.
The Fatuity of Johnson, S.M.
The following is a report cut from Sydney
Daily Telegraph of a casetriedthe otherday,
in a Sydney police-court, before Mr. J ohn-
c! i\/r ti • 1 • i
son, S.M. It is interesting as showing either
the state of the law relating to attempted
suicide in New South Wales, or the state of
the said law as fixed up on the spur of the
moment by Johnson, S.M. It is also inter-
esting as showing the awful mental condition
t , .. . . t ,
of Johnson, S.M., and it is important as
casting a side light on the judicial system of
which Johnson, S.M., is a fine example—a
system which is all more or less Johnson,
and, therefore, all more or less unfeeling,
, ~ r, ,
illogical, stupid, and disgraceful
William Steel (30), bootmaker, and Robert Dixon (29),
printer, were charged at the Central Court yesterday
with frequenting Castlereagh-street with intent to com-
mit a felony early on Sunday morning. The magistrate
deemed the evidence for the prosecution weak and dis-
charged the accused. Steel was then charged with
attempting to commit suicide hy cutting his throat in the
ceils at No. 2 police-station early yesterday morning,
Constable Taplin stated that he found the accused lying
on the floor of the ceil bleeding from a wound in the
throat, evidently inflicted by a penknife. Accused
pleaded guilty, and urged that he had been driven to
attempt suicide by the fear that he might get six months
on a charge of which he was innocent. Mr. Johnson,
S.M., said that magistrates were usually inclined to be
very lenient with unfortunate persons whom troubles
tempted to take their own lives. Accused’s case however
was a very different one, he having attempted to commit
suicide in order to defeat the law, and he would have to
go to gaol for three months.
m, * AIT * , * *
Ihe N.S.W. law relating to attempted
suicide, if it can be judged by the adminis-
tration of it, is a loose, far-reaching affair
which leaves almost everything to the dis-
cretion of the Bench. The punishment
varies, according to the discretion of the
Bench, from a few fatherly observations up
to a long term of hard labor ; therefore,
when a case of this kind comes before a
Bench which hasn’t any -discretion, the
results are generally disastrous. The moral
law on the subject is about as indefinite as
the statute law, and public opinion is about
as indefinite as the law. The Scriptures, on
which the statutes are supposed to be more
or less based, leave the question severely
alone • thev nowhere distinctly condemn
suicide, though the Church, which blas-
phemously adds to and takes from its
written oracle to suit its own convenience,
nas chosen to say that they do so. The
Church commenced to do this princi-
pally because, in the old days of chattel
slavery, self-destruction was practically the
only means of escape from serfdom, and
the Church, as the friend and supporter of
the rights of Property, proceeded to block
that avenue of retreat with the material fires
of its alleged Gehenna, in order to prevent
valuable goods from getting away to the
detriment of their owners. The statute-law,
as represented by Johnson, S.M., and his
like, hover’s foolishly between two opinions.
If attempted suicide is a crime at all, then it
is simply attempted murder, and, when the
criminal can be got at, it should be treated
as such ; the only logical basis on which it
can be regarded as a crime is the basis that
the man who attempts to kill himself and the
man who attempts to kill someone else stand
on the same footing. If attempted suicide
is not attempted murder, then it is nothing,
and the law which gives the attempted suicide
seven days or three months, or discharges
him with a caution, or orders him to enter
into his own recognisances in the sum of £5O
to be of good behaviour for one year, practi-
cally acknowledges as much. And having
practically acknowledged it, the seven days
Or the three months are equally an outrage
on logic and morality.
* * * *
This is the situation as it stands without
the grotesqueness of Johnson, S.M., added
to the other complications. The world
is full of poverty and misery, and it con-
tains many people for whom it offers no pre-
sent prospect of an honest livelihood. The
law doesn’t profess to find employment for
any of these people, but it gaols them on the
charge of vagrancy for being found in a
world which doesn’t offer them a livelihood.
Also, after it has gaoled them for being in
that world it gaols them again for trying to
get out of it. In the present case, however,
it carried the matter to even more astounding
lengths. The prisoner, Steel, was arrested,
in the first place, for being up early and
being in a street. He was a shabbily-
dressed person, and perhaps because he was
about early, and was shabbily dressed for
want of better clothes, and was in a
street for want of any better place to go to,
and for no other reasons whatever, the law
assumed him to be a criminal and arrested
him. He had every prospect, under the
police-court variety of law, of getting a long
term of hard labor. And being innocent,
the present and prospective disgrace (the
assumption is a fair one) preyed on his mind,
and he endeavored, in a crude and primitive
fashion, to get away from a world which the
law has made unendurable for a sensitive
man whose clothes bring him under police
suspicion. Then the law, having driven him
to attempted suicide, gave him three months
for having been driven to it. And Johnson,
S.M., after having decided that the accused
wasn’t a criminal, and, therefore, that his
arrest was an injustice, intimated that he
awarded the three months because he had
endeavored to die in order to escape justice
—when the same Johnson had just decided
that it wasn’t justice he was trying to escape
from, but a wholly different article. There-
fore Steel received three months and
a mangled throat and a severe admonition
because the law made a gross mistake.
And Johnson, it would appear from the
daily paper report, went out of his way to
explain that he would have given much less
if the prisoner hadn’t been driven mad by
the prospective disgrace of conviction upon
a groundless charge. In other words, the
law visited Steel’s alleged offence more
heavily because the law’s mistake had driven
him to it in the first place. The law knocked
Steel down, and then kicked him, by the
large moral foot of Johnson, S.M., for not
standing up, and it explained at the same
time, through the beautifully logical John-
son, S.M., that it kicked him especially hard
because it had knocked him down in the
first place. If he had fallen on his own
account it would have kicked him much
more gently. Truly the ways of Johnson.
S.M., are past finding out.
* * * *
It is about time that attempted suicide
was definitely removed from the category of
crime. The law has given up attempting to
punish the suicide who succeeds, and it is a
mean, low-down proceeding to wreak ven-
geance on the one who fails. If there is
anything in those allegedly Scriptural doc-
trines on which the law professes to be
based, then the attempted suicide has done
his best to get into everlasting lire, and the
man who has just missed that destiny has
run enough risk to satisfy even the wrath of
Stipendiary Magistrate Johnson. If he
hasn’t just missed the alleged region of per-
petual horror, then the Scripture on which the
law professes to be based is a mistake, and the
law is a lie. The sentence passed on the
suicide who has failed— generally because he
was too ignorant or too much deranged to
understand the location of his own vital
parts, or too poor to buy a weapon that
could be trusted to go off—-is based on the
assumption that attempted suicide is at-
tempted murder ; that attempted murder is
equivalent to, say, 14 days’ imprisonment;
that, as in Steel s case, the attempt to get
away from the law’s brutal injustice is & so
much worse than attempted murder as to
merit 2| months extra; that the man who
suicides goes to perdition ; and that the
person who isn’t afraid of everlasting tor-
ment can be scared into a better way of
thinking by a short period of confinement.
The sentence passed on the suicide who
succeeds, because lie was learned enoug 1
or sane enough to know where his vitals
were located, or had obtained money
enough—perhaps by defrauding his creditors
—to buy a weapon that would go off, is almost
always that he was a perfectly innocent per-
son who was temporarily deranged, io put
the matter in another form, if a policeman
arrives in time to stop the suicide, the kit ei
is a sane person who is guilty of a great
crime, and Johnson sends him to gaol
accordingly. If the policeman doesn t amve
in time, then he is a deranged but guiltless
individual suffering from misfortune. There-
fore, sanity and guilt, or insanity and inno-
cence, depend on the nearness or the velocity
of a policeman, and the State, which fails to
supply enough policemen to keep one near
each possible suicide, is the party that is
really guilty.
* * * *
Further, if the suicide, like the ill-starred
Arthur Daore, had a medical training which
enabled him to find his jugular at one
attempt, and kill himself with certainty, then
he is an innocent but deranged person ; if,
like Steel, he had no medical training, and,
therefore, didn’t know the location of
his most convenient artery, he is fully re-
sponsible for his actions and has com-
mitted a truly dreadful offence. Consequently
insanity lies in the possession of a medical
training, and every doctor who commits
suicide is a lunatic, and every doctor who is
going to commit suicide is a lunatic, and, as
no one knows for certain which doctor may
not be going to commit suicide sooner or
later, the whole medical profession must be
viewed with grave suspicion. An insane
person may be also defined as a man who
steals or otherwise acquires a reliable re-
volver, or has access to a supply of prussic
acid, or who isn’t caught by a projecting tree
as he is taking a short-cut over a precipice ;
and a sane person is the same person, or any
other person, if the revolver misses fire, or if
he takes some slow and futile poison instead
of the reliable prussic acid—probably because
he hadn’t a match handy and seized the
wrong bottle in the dark, or if a tree
catches him by the clothes as he is going
down, and is strong enough to hold him.
And, as its strength may depend on
the presence or absence of dry-rot or
some other form of decay, a sane person may
be briefly defined as one who lives near a
sound tree, and a deranged person as one
who lives near a tree that isn’t sound. The
Bulletin didn’t make these definitions and
is in no way responsible for them; they
were made principally by the Johnsons of
this great country, and this paper invites
these dull and drivelling persons to consider
their handiwork.
* * * *
The great, dull, stupid public which in-
directly makes the laws has much to answer
for in this matter. It grovelled and maun-
dered and shed tears and blossoms over Dacre,
who killed his wife and then himself, and
important legal magnates sent flowers to his
pompous funeral—all because he wore good
clothes and was a man of some mark, and did
his alleged crime successfully and sensa-
tionally. If lie hadn’t killed his wife
and had failed to kill himself, and there-
foie had been incomparably less crimi-
nal, in the legal sense, than he was,
the same legal magnates who helped to
wail over his dust would probably have
given him three months—because he would
have, been so much less deserving of it.
Public opinion, or what passes for it, respects
the suicide, if he is sufficiently picturesque.
It has maundered for centuries over Richard
Grenville, who went to certain and unneces-
sary death in the Revenge. It respected
Balmaceda because he preferred to end his
career with dignity rather than be executed
as a public show. It has drivelled to utter
weariness over an alleged boy who committed
felo-de-se by needlessly standing on an alleged
burning deck It has dropped into poetry
over the suicides oi Sardanapalus, Brutus
Hannibal Cleopatra, Saul of Israel, Bem’
Arnold Winkelried, and any number of
other people who died voluntarily to avoid
what they regarded as a worse fate. The one
redeeming feature in the squalid tragedy of
apoleon the Little, according to public
opinion, is the picture of the dying man with
the painted face who sat o/hif Cslln
the face of a storm of bullets at Sedan
conm ng f ° r d6ath which wos£?
come, if the suicide succeeds, and if he
goes off with a great, picturesque report the
to give „p weeptag olr s ;"l, Partl k Ul “ r-
tragedies as that of Daces • I P“thetic
its theory of “ iisasitf ™ “J?
return a logical vervuLt- J “sanity, and
suicide thaf“ hL iffiV “ ° rdin^
has gone to hell ” • kllled hl ™self and
would-be suicide to <ciol U fo, UJ i J ell 1 dlng the
hang him instead, as an attemuteJ day ", and
m cold blood— or else f<> * l d , luurderer
who has failed the benefit of the ‘?f de
porary insanity ” theory as well ; l ti
who has succeeded, and to If ® the one
self-destruction a perfectly legaUcf
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A State Bank and a National Ass.
The first State Land Bank of Australia started
business last week in Adelaide, and the
Observer, which is against the Government
and the Democratic-party, and in favor of the
National Ass and all its Ass works, started out
in an elaborate article to prove that the said
Land Bank will be no assistance to the strugg-
ling agriculturist or pastoralist after all. This
is how the Observer does it :
As an illustration of the working of this clause we mav
take the case of a farmer with £lOOO worth of land and
£5OO worth of permanent improvements. Assuming that
he be allowed a mortgage up to the hilt on the valuation
he will be able to borrow £9OO from the Government ’
In the cases of the great majority of the Crown lessees' the
Act provides only trifling relief. A lessee on right of pur
chase of a property valued at £l5OO may have £lOOO
still to pay before he can complete his purchase That
£lOOO will be taken out of the £l5OO, and the loan -will be
based on the £5OO ; so that the maximum amount which
the lessee can borrow will be £3OO. He will not be able to
get as much as this in cases where the sum which he
agreed to pay for his property is in excess of present
market values. For illustration, a right of purchase mav
have been arranged at a total of £l5OO, of which £5OO
may have been paid; but the estate may be worth
now only £l2OO. In that event the utmost extent
of the advance, except in the cases of gardens, will be
three-fifths of £2OO, or £l2O. Other lessees may secure
advances merely on the improved value of their lands—a
lessee with £lOOO worth of land and £3OO of improve
ments thus borrowin''- on the £3OO only—a loan of £lBO
In all cases £5OOO is the maximum advance permissible to
any single borrower. Clearly, then, the most needy
landholders cannot be benefited directly under the Act *
The plaint of the Observer, consequently,
boils down as follows: If a man has £l5OO
worth of property, the Land Bank will only
lend £9OO on it. If he has £l5OO worth of
property on which he still owes the State
£lOOO, so that his own interest in it is only
£5OO, the Land Bank will only lend £3oo—it
actually won’t lend money on the £lOOO worth
of land which the mortgagor hasn’t paid for and
lias no title to. If he has a property that is
now worth only £l2OO, with a £lOOO liability
to the State upon it, so that his own interest is
only £2OO, the Land Bank will only lend on
the security of the £2oo—it flatly refuses to
lend on the security of the value that is
lost through depreciation, or on the property
which isn’t paid for, and which the borrower
consequently doesn’t own. And if a man holds
a lease from the State of land worth £lOOO, and
lias £5OO worth of improvements on it,’ the
State won’t lend money to its tenant on its
own land, because it isn’t his to mortgage, but
will only lend on the improvements which are
the tenant’s own property. Of course, no
private landlord would lend money to his own
tenant on the security of liis—the landlord’s—
own property; and no bank would lend anybody
money on land he had bought but hadn’t paid
for, or on the value which tiie land used to
have, but which it no longer possesses. But
the Ass-ridden Observer solemnly denounces
the State Land Bank because it won’t do these
tilings either, and will merely .lend on the same
security which is demanded by the private
lender—but at about half the private lender’s
rate of interest! Altogether, the Ass variety of
logic is a strange and floundering concern,
vaguely suggestive of a daddy-longlegs strug-
gling in a milk-jug.
The Troubles of the Teamster.
Not alone by constructing railways in order to
carry away the traffic which, geographically,
rightly belongs to a neighbor, nor by a system
of differential tariffs, nor by refusing to snag
rivers flowing into others’ territory, do Aus-
tralian provinces manifest their provincialism,
to the great loss in pounds, shillings, and pence
of the people. In'the administration of even the
N.S.W. Mines (Water Conservation) and Roads
and Bridges offices is the same thing illus-
trated. As The Bulletin said, the other day,
the natural outlet for Western and North-
western N.S.W. is Port Augusta or Port Pirie,
on Spencer’s Gulf (S.A.), from which a railway
mas inland 300 miles—owned by S.A. Govern-
ment as far as Cookburu, and by private com-
panies as far as Tarrawingee, 80 miles further.
Now, when the back-countryman realised that
this line was open, wool began to come down
from, and goods go up by, the new route to
most of the country west of the Darling, right up
to and beyond the Queensland border. There-
upon N.S.W. Government turned its attention
to the tracks towards Bourke (the terminus of
the N.S.W. Western-railway system, 503 miles
from Sydney), and absolutely neglected those
leading in the other direction. It has, in con-
formity with this policy, made costly' dams and
put down bores to ensure a good water-supply
on the way to or from Bourke, while the travel-
ler by the other route has for months past been
compelled to turn thief and steal water for his
horses or cattle, because the Government has
not provided tanks, and the stations (most of
them desperately short of water) have issued
notices that they will not supply the travelling
public. No end of trouble lias resulted from
this. Stations, finding it impossible to other-
wise preserve their scanty water, have closed
Lacks which have been open for many years,
and which teamsters believed were gazetted ;
and several unfortunates have been heavily
fined for refusing to turn back. One gives his
experiences of three days :
' ~ tank (a private one, five miles from the
tuesday morning. Got as far as the fence (seven
_ s ' > unyoked, and had to take the horses back to the
nr. s * x ni 'les next dav ; then took the horses
• tank (four miles). Did to the
tank next day, and camped Friday.
Seventeen miles with his “loading” in four
c ays; yet it will be observed his team had
ac ually to travel 39 miles. That was for water
a one; probably it was nearly as far to feed.
ven when the Government does make a tank
°r sink a bore (it is the same in this respect on
mos ot the tracks) it does not make a sufficient
reservation ot land in the neighborhood; and
the squatter-man wears the country all around
as >aie as a city-street. Further, at the bores
. . \ va - , comes U P almost boiling ; stock will
lta J onc ?i and in some cases—as at
o j 1 on ' °f which much has been heard in
D r I’’ a . nd . which is giving 2,000,000 gallons
infr. i ore lfc iscool it reaches a quagmire,
damrer hl °R f St °, ck , cannot g° without grave
tierlri n'« l ! fc lUs * s a ln inor grievance, and,
‘ P unfortunately, not general. Yet if


;herg is a man who deserves well of govern-
ments that desii'e to see the country settled, it
is the teamster ; and if he is itiore deserving at
one time than another, it is surely in droughty
seasons like the present*
Those Japanese Boots.
A few days ago the New Soutli Wales Chamber
of Manufactures announced that the first ship-
ment of Japanese-made boots and shoes had
arrived in Sydney, and that the cheap little
brown man was beginning to compete in a
branch of industry which he hadn’t hitherto
interfered with, and to pour into New South
Wales’s open ports goods made by men working
in a cheap land at say 6d. a day to wipe out the
local white artisan. The news was received,
as usual, with a whoop of scorn by the Sydney
morning papers, and the one which perverts
the truth in King-street—as distinguished
from the one which doesn’t adhere to solid
fact at the corner of Hunter-street —started
out to show the utter absurdity of the allega-
tion. “ In Japan,” said this unreliable
authority, “ the common article of footwear
was a sandal which lasted only a few days, but
which was so inexpensive that a person’s total
expenditure in this direction amounted only
to about ss. annually. There was only one
small factory where leather boots were made in
the country . . . and the output was so
small that he had his whole work cut out to
supply orders from the Mikado and his suite
as well as the foreign residents.” This informa-
tion may have been reasonably accurate a dozen
or 20 years back, but it is lamentably out of
date now. At the Chicago Exhibition three
large Japanese boot-factories exhibited samples
of their goods, which were quite up to the
ordinary white man standard, and their agents
bought large quantities of labor - saving
machinery, with a view to enlarging their out-
put. Since then, five or six more large factories
have started. The straw sandal at ss. per
.annum is fast becoming extinct. During the
(late war, immense orders for boots for the
.-army were placed with the Jap. manufacturers,
who largely increased their plant to keep pace
with them, and, now that this demand
thas subsided, they are anxiously looking
{for new markets to keep their machinery
•employed, and New South Wales, under
•the present regime, is just the market that is
wanted. The large imports of hides and leather
into Japan are sufficient in themselves to show
that that country has got beyond the straw-
sandal stage of civilisation. Quite recently an
Australian order for the finer qualities of leather
.could not be filled in San Francisco without
several months’ delay, because all the available
supplies for a long time ahead were booked for
Japan. Under these circumstances, it is no good
fighting the inevitable of to-day with the alleged
facts of the decade before last. The small
brown men are hard facts who can’t be ex-
plained away, and they are in dead earnest.
London Referee, a very English paper indeed,
on the brotherhood of the alleged Anglo-Saxon
race :
It has often been alleged that the hostility of Americans
towards this country, as evidenced by the tall talk of
their newspapers, was more apparent than real. On this
subject let us no longer be under any delusion. The
Americans dislike us just as much—l don’t say more, but
just as much—and are just as ready to go to war with us
as any other nation, blood and speech notwithstanding.
On the question of blood, indeed, it is not a little re-
markable that the bitterest spirit towards England is
breathed by the representatives of the puritanical com-
munities who were directly founded by our own kith and
kin who went out in the Mayflower. Let those foolish
enthusiasts who prate about the essential fraternity of
kindred nations make note of that, and let us make note
of it, too, with regard to our own kith and kin in Africa,
Australia and Canada. The Canadians, to do them
justice, are, like ourselves, bridling up at Uncle Sam’s
pretensions. Doubtless they have no more love for their
kith and kin in the United States than ours in the United
States have for us. I was thinking for the moment of
the Imperial Federation idea. More than once in these
columns, on evidence which seemed to me convincing, I
have insisted that separation by thousands of miles
of sea checks, and in course of time kills, community
of sentiment, whether between two families or two
peoples ; and I have been reasoned with, and even blamed,
for so doing by patriotic correspondents with whom the
wish was father to the thought. The first generation of
colonists look back no doubt to the mother country with
affection. To them it is still the old home. Something
of this sentiment may cling to the second generation, but
the third and the fourth are strangers. Not only in-
different to England, which to them is a mere geographi-
cal expression, they have, if anything, a hostile bent,
because in their youthful self-sufficiency they resent the
supposed superiority of the old country, and chafe under
any burdens or sacrifices which the Imperial bond may
impose. I am as sorry as any of my correspondents that
this should be so. On the other hand, the fact is as I say;
* it is folly not to recognise it. ’Tis true, ’tis pity, and pity
■ ’tis, ’tis true. Considering what a hotch-potch of nation-
alities the people of the United States now are, the pre-
' dominance of English names among the governing classes
' is at first sight a little strange. It does not imply, how-
' ever, all that it seems to do. English being the
predominant language, there is a tendency for the
names brought by foreign immigrants to be Anglicised
Baumann becoming Bowman, Rosenfbld Rosefield, and
’ so on. Not long ago I had an interesting talk with a well-
iknow’n American dramatist, bearing an indubitably Eng-
lish name —I don’t see why I should not mention it,
IBronson Howard. I assumed that he was of English
descent. “ Not at all,” he replied; “ it may seem curious
to you, considering my name, but by descent I am some-
thing like three-quarters Dutch and one-quarter Scotch.
In my view, however, a pure English descent, if such a
thing can be said to exist in America, is not incompatible
with the most hostile sentiments towards the old country.
The great American Republic has acquired conceptions of
rights privileges, and duties wholly different from ours
as a nation. Hence there is no such community of feeling
between Great Britain and the U.S. A. as is theoretically
contended. Witness this war boom, which ,is as sudden,
as intense, and I fully believe as dangerous as any flare-up
of animosity that could take place between two Con-
tinental countries. I am afraid we are all too fond of
deluding ourselves with cant, of which there is, naturally,
a great deal about at the present season. There is the
cant of good wishes, of philanthropy, of friendship, and,
as I have been saying, of international concord and good-
will. I should have thought that this Anglo-American
crisis would have helped to brush the cobwebs away from
people’s minds, with regard to international relations,
anyhow. Nevertheless, in a great organ of public opinion
I find the following comment on the crisis : They (the
Americans) know how dear to us is the majestic march of
the Republic on the pathway of her grand destiny and
how we count upon her greatness and power for the future
progress and influence of our common race. This is the
very Pecksniftianism of journalism.
Purves, Q.C., has begun to regret his idiotic
attack on Champion. The accusation of
“ blackmailing ” was obviously barristerial
well, “ privilege,” and Champion’s remarks on
the subject were the more effective for coming a
few days after the accusation, when Melbourne
had had time to digest the browbeater’s in-
solence. “If Mr. Purves,” said Champion,
“ made any such statement outside a court of
law, I should have a remedy before the law.
Mr. Purves pointed out that the days of per-
sonal chastisement for unmerited insult are
past. That point I cannot argue with him. I
have not his wide experience of such
matters, and have never been thrashed in
the public street, or concerned in a race-
course brawl, owing to cowardly abuse
of a privileged position. His opening in
this case, with its wild and totally unfounded
charges against me and my paper, is a disgrace
to the Bar, a menace to justice, and a proof of
unscrupulous malignity. With Mr. Purves’s
coarser, viler, and more general abusive epithets
I will not trouble the court. I have no need to
defend myself from them, coming, as they do,
from a man whose recent address to the youths
entering his own profession was unprintable on
the score of its obscenity.” That knocks h 1
out of Purves, Q.C., and should be useful here-
after to any litigant who may defend his own
case against a hired vituperator. It is notable,
by the w r ay, that the “ great ” dailies of Mel-
bourne, which printed in full Purves’s imputa-
tion of blackmailing against Champion, cordially
ignored Champion’s stinging and well-formu-
lated reply to the lawyer’s reckless abuse.
If the Victorian Crown Law Department be
anxious to arrive at the truth of Lormer’s
charges against certain brother magistrates, it
is strange that the department should have
appointed an Enquiry Board which can’t possi-
bly dispose of the scandal promptly. A few
days since the Board threatened to close its
sittings altogether, unless the Crown could pro-
ceed at once with its cases. The inevitably in-
dignant lawyer for the defence snorted forth
his inevitable request for the curtain of silence
to be dropped on the enquiry, and it really
seemed as though Lormer was to be the victim
of a fiasco. However, he managed to bring the
Crown up to the scratch again, and for
the next three or four days the Board was busily
engaged in taking “revelations.” Then, just
as the fun was fastest and most furious, the
chairman (Judge Williams) intimated that he
would be engaged on circuit for the rest of the
month, after which another member of the
board (Prof. Kernot) would have private
matters to attend to. The board therefore
adjourned to a date unfixed. It may possibly
meet again towards the end of March, unless
the third member shall happen to be overtaken
by an important engagement. Also, there is a
reasonable chance of somebody being too ill to
proceed when further proceedings fall due.
Meantime, the shower of revelations has been
sufficiently heavy to soak into the public mind
and nourish the roots of curiosity.
The Argus in condemnation of that clause in
the Vic. Factories’ Bill forbidding the letting-
out of work, excised by the House of Misrepre-
sentatives :
The right of the citizen to work where he pleases is
obvious, and the proposed interference with this liberty
was so gross that the strongest reasons would be required
to justify its adoption.
The right of the citizen to work where he pleases
is not obvious, and is not admitted. For in-
stance, he may not work in an unsafe house or
one condemned as insanitary ; and, as for the
gross interference with his liberty, all law is an
interference with somebody’s liberty, in one
way or another, and it is only when the sub-
ject’s liberty to sweat for the fat middleman is
interfered with that respectable papers like the
Argus think it worth while to protest. This
sudden anxiety about the liberty of the woman
who earns 7s. 6d. a week from the sweater, by
working all day and half the night, is truly
touching. It would, indeed, be a lamentable
thing if the law interfered with her beatific
freedom.
Extracts from one leader in the S.M. Herald
of Friday, 14th Feb. :
Competent authorities do not attribute the dulness of
their trade to the importation of Japanese boots, but to
“ the heavy stocks held by many of the manufacturing
firms.” In other words, it was the effect of our short-
lived Protection. The protection given to the manufac-
ture had its usual effect of unduly stimulating internal
competition, and causing the production of more goods
than the restricted market could absorb The
principle underlying the application of Freetrade to the
industrial conditions of this colony is the necessity of
cheapening production to enable us to hold our own in
competition with other countries. To cheapen production
we must cheapen the necessaries of life. We must do this
by removing all trammels imposed by a mistaken theory
which aimed, not at cheapening cost, but at artificially
enhancing it. The new system requires time to effect the
required adjustments, but these being duly made there is
no reason to doubt that the bracing air .of freedom will
vivify all our genuine industries and augment the
volume of the output with which we have to balance our
accounts with the world.
It appears from these half-dozen sentences : (1)
That Protection makes trade dull; (2) that
Protection unduly stimulates trade; (3) that
Protection gluts the market with goods, and, as
everyone knows, a glutted market means low
prices ; (4) that Protection is a mistaken theory
which “ artificially enhances ” prices ; (5) that
Protection is bad because it “ unduly stimu-
lates internal competition and causes the pro-
duction of more goods than the restricted
market can absorb ”; (6) that Freetrade is
good because its “bracing air” will “vivify”
our industries and “augment our output”—
in other words, Freetrade is going to make this
objectionable production still greater ; (7) that
Protection has caused the dullness in the boot-
trade and the consequent low wages, and there-
fore should be put down ; (8) that Freetrade is
going to further “ cheapen production ” —which
necessarily includes cheapening the producer,
otherwise reducing wages—therefore, it should
be boosted up. Which, all put together, is a
good deal of information to find in one article.
“We want to avoid being placed in the hands
of the class of ‘ professional Governors ’ who
take the position to make money out of it,”
says Sydney Daily Telegraph of Bth instant.
How, why should not a Governor, as well as
others, make money by his work? According to
all accounts, Queen Victoria lays by something
regularly. The Telegraph does not admit
that a Governor should lose money by his office,
and it consequently adopts towards him the
Henry Parkes phraseology in the Payment of
Members Act—the payment of an annual
amount to reimburse him for expenses incurred.
This is sad shambling on the part of a paper
professing to wear a democratic eye. The
phraseology of the Payment of Members Act is
fraudulent English; any phraseology which
offers a man a salary, but tells him lie must not
regard it as a salary, merely beats about the
bush of principle,
Sydney Morning Herald starts, in a curious
obfuscation of ideas, to prove that the proposed
Government Tobacco Monopoly in Victoria
can’t possibly work. “ Either the State,” it
says, “to benefit the local growers must re-
strict, perhaps cease, the importation of Ameri-
can leaf, and so sacrifice <£250,000 a year of
revenue, or else it is not apparent where the
farmer who grows the Victorian leaf or the
workmen who manufacture it are to find their
advantage.” Well, suppose a degraded country
imports lib. of American tobacco, value Is., and
tlie State charges a Customs duty of 35., and
further suppose it grows lib. of Victorian
tobacco at Is., and the State charges an excise
duty of 35., then the State will have got 6s.
revenue, and both tobaccos will sell at, say, 4s.
per lb. And if a State Tobacco Monopoly shuts
out the American product, and buys
21b. of local leaf at Is. per lb., and sells it at 4s.
per lb., it will still have got 6s. profit; it won’t
have sacrificed £250,000 a year or any other
sum ; it won’t have raised prices ; and the local
grower will come in simply because he will sell
twice as much of his product. The Herald’s
incapacity to do a small sum like that is painful
to any well-regulated mind.
An obsolete tyrant has just been deposed in
Victoria in the shape of an Act familiarly
known as “27 Eliz.” It made gifts of
land revocable at the will of the giver,
but did not interfere in any way with
gifts of goods and chattels. If Jones gave all
his movable property to ’Arriet, really, but
not provably, to dodge future creditors, ’Arriet
would be quite secure ; but, if he gave his wife
or his son a piece of land in consideration of year-
long weary work on it, no matter how bona-fide.
the gift was, this beautiful Act would step in
and allow him, perhaps 40 years after, to sell
or mortgage the land, even if the purchaser had
clear notice that it belonged to someone else.
In New South Wales, some years ago, a scan-
dalous case procured the emasculation of this
old -rou6 progeny of the virgin-queen. Anoma-
lous laws of this description abound on the
Statute-book, and most of them are of as full
vitality (in the law-courts) as when they were
enacted, or alleged to have been enacted. A
Cobweb-Broom Act is needed in places other
than Maoriland.
A slab of immortal truth from Melbourne
Punch :
What has been the reward of the faithful or scrupulous
auditor in the past ? In nearly every case he has been
treated with insolence and contempt, and in every case
when possible he has been run out of his position, either
by the directors or their friends the shareholders in
meeting' assembled. What thanks did the auditors of the
Australian Natives’ Association receive for drawing atten-
tion to the state of the investment account; the auditors
of the Brunswick Council for finding fault with the books
and accounts of the Council; the auditor of the Wesleyan
Church Building Loan Fund for not signing the balance-
sheet ; the auditors of the Guardian Accident Company
for declining to sign the balance-sheet in the form pre-
sented ; and that able man, Mr. Alex. Young, of Messrs.
Turquand, Youngs, Bishop and Co., accountants, London,
for drawing attention to additional provision being
necessary for losses in connection with the N.Z. Loan
and Mercantile Agency Company, of which co. he was
auditor, and for stating that if re-elected it was his inten-
tion to issue such reports as he thought were necessary
in the interests of the company ? Mr. Young was not
re-elected. The directors stated that they would resign
if he was again appointed, so Mr. Young was gently run
out. We have in our mind’s eye at present three auditors
who are next door to starving. They were too particular,
too hard for directors and managers to deal with, so they
have been shunted. What do the shareholders or credi-
tors care? We could present a long list of auditors who
have been insulted, cast aside, and are now neglected
chiefly on account of their scrupulousness in dealing with
balance-sheets. We maintain, in the interests of fair play
and justice, and especially in the interests of the creditors
and shareholders of our financial institutions, that the
auditor of the future, if he is to have all tha responsibility
of balance-sheets cast upon him, must be placed by
the New Companies Bill in an almost impregnable
position. He must not be subject to insult by
councillors, directors or managers, nor be liable to re-
moval either by packed meetings of shareholders, or
threats of resignation by directors. Auditors in the past
have saved many heavy losses, found out many defalca-
tions, and done much hard, painstaking work ; if, in the
future by law, they are to be under pains and penalties,
and made responsible for the whole financial con-
dition of our banks and companies, their povver and
position must be defined, they should be appointed by
Government, or by some independent board, and no
auditor should act for more than two institutions. The
work to be done, and the time required, would occupy a
year, and would have to be proportionately remun-
erated.
“The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith.”
The secret is out. Pinero is a woman — and a
New Woman to boot. None but she could have
written “ Mrs. Ebbsmith,” with its monotonous
recital of the Magnanimity of Woman, the Mean-
ness of Man. Now the Monster may see himself
in his true colors—which are uniformly drab and
dirty. Cleeve —a vain, sensual, nervous weakling ;
the Duke—the dregs of a worthless roue ; Sir
Sandford —a prig and an ass ; the Rev. Winterfield
—with some manliness, but —a Wesleyan parson ;
—there is a gallery of leading characters for the
Brutes to contemplate ! But look at the women !
Agnes—a simple angel (horrid that her “ sex ”
should “ find her out ”); Gertrude—another angel,
brimful of noble notions; Mrs. Cleeve—angel
encore! Now do you begin to comprehend what
women really are ?—for, of course, these are types,
patterns, and the bulk of the Sex is guaranteed
exactly same as sample.
* * * *
And what are the relations of those Brutes to
these Angels ? The husband of Agnes—a Brute
who wallows somewhere off the stage —treated her
“for about twelve months like a woman in a
harem, for the rest of the time like a beast
of burden.” Gertrude’s husband (also wal-
lowing behind the scenes) ditto, ditto but he
only kept her in the harem for “ weeks—weeks,
not months ! ” Mrs. Cleeve’s husband ditto ditto •
with modifications due to his ignoble character.
Two Brutes die (Heaven is weary of them); the
third Brute, Cleeve, separates from his victim and
endeavors to drag Angel Agnes to the pit by way
of her Sex (such a nuisance—Sex !). But Angel
Gertrude flies to the rescue—assisted by her
brother, who, by joining the Third Sex, has dodged
the destiny of Brute which. Nature designed for
him. The three Brutes are baulked of their prey.
But an infernal idea strikes one of them—a con-
ventional bandage is placed over Mrs. Angel
Cleeve’s eyes, and she is induced to tempt her
sister to ruin. In vain ; her angelic nature asserts
itself; she tears off the bandage and denounces
the Brutes, who retire gnashing their horrid teeth.
Whoop ! Virtue triumphant ! Angelic pas de
trois blessed by the parson ! The sky opens and
discloses “God in Her Heaven,” with female
angels sitting round on silver thrones and gazing
contemptuously over the edge at the male devils
all down below. Pure white lights. Certain.
*****
There was never such a gift to the New Woman
as this play. Her -hopes, her trials, her Heaven
of Reform, her Hell of Marriage, her strength of
character, her weakness of Sex (such a bore-*
Sex !), the crusade for a new morality, the in-
famous necessity for the propagation of a new
race to profit by the new morality —all are set
forth or suggested. God bless Mrs. Pinero ! How
gallantly she rears the standard of truth, how
* * * *
It was precisely at this point that I thought of
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” and “brought
up all standing. ” For there the noble, magnani-
mous rebel against cruel conventions is a male,
and his sacrifices, his efforts to give Paula another
chance, are baulked partly by Paula herself—who
is practically incorrigible—and partly by the prim
little Pharisee, “Saint Ellean.” In “Mrs. Tan-
queray ”it is his callous, unsympathetic (first) wife
who made Aubrey miserable- not he her. Ardale is
an average man, whose valor may be set against his
vices; the Orreyeds “pair,” and don’t count in
the division ; Drummle and the other male
characters are decent, sensible fellows. But the
keynote of the play is struck by its central figures
—Aubrey, Paula, and Ellean—and how, O New
Woman ! does the stainless, generous, wife-harried
male compare with the female sinner and the
female Pharisee? The devil take Mr. Pinero !
What a truthless, cowardly contrast ! So like a
man !
* * * *
Are the plays complementary ? Hardly; though
a little alteration would make them so. If
Aubrey’s marriage were merely the first step in
a public agitation for the assistance of fallen
women, and the folly of his agitation were shown
by his own experiment, the analogy of his role
with that of Agnes might seem close enough to be
intended by the author. But his experiment is
meant to begin and end in his own household ; he
does not preach marriage-with-the-fallen from pole
to pole as Agnes would preach free-union. In any
case, it is a mistake to consider Pinero’s chief aim
as the intentional inculcation of a definite moral
lesson. His first object is to write a good play —a
play which will be worth seeing, worth reading,
and worth thinking over. To do that, he must
picture life as it is—“ hold, as ’twere, the mirror
up to nature ; show virtue her own feature, scorn
her own image, and the very age and body of the
time his form and pressure.” If Pinero’s plays
are good plays, and contain moral lessons, then
these are the moral lessons of life, not of Pinero.
His talent but selects from the materials which
are ready to everybody’s hand, refines, dresses,
illuminates, and knits tangled skeins into a cohe-
rent story. But if his selection be bad, if he
heighten lights or blacken shadows to gain a
moral effect which he did not, in essence, find
awaiting him, then his play is unnatural, it is a
bad play, and he has missed his object.
* * * *
The apparent contradiction in the sex-morals of
“ Mrs. Tanqueray ” and “ Mrs. Ebbsmith ” is due
to the little-appreciated fact that the universe is a
big thing, and you can’t get more than one corner
of it on one stage at one time. Both are good
plays; but “Mrs. Tanqueray” is far the better.
It has better incident, better dialogue ; it moves
better, is better constructed; its effect is more
powerful, more continuous, more permanent.
“Mrs. Ebbsmith” has the stronger motive—the
strife between Good and Evil for a human being
is the strongest motive imaginable—and Agnes
might conceivably be made a stronger character
than Paula. She is not —Pinero’s execution fails
to reach the height of his conception. Had it
succeeded, he would be another Goethe, and
“ Mrs. Ebbsmith ” a second “ Faust.” But
Pinero, though a very clever fellow, is not a genius.
* * * *
I like Mrs. Brough, for she doesn’t wear petti-
coats, and her graceful outlines and motions please
the eye and the soul. The other women are
mostly waddling bundles. I don’t like Mrs.
Brough, for she is a phonograph, an automaton,
with the eternal air of saying a part and gesticu-
lating by machinery. Her glare, her tricks with
the handkerchief, her frantic rush, all weary me.
I hate to say this, for she “ toils painfully,” and
she has given me much pleasure in “Niqbe,”
“ The Amazons,” and a dozen other plays. Even
in ‘ ‘ Mrs. Tanqueray ” she succeeded for three-
fourths of the play, because the part suited her,
and the tragedy comes only in spots. But for the
sombre, tragic Mrs. Ebbsmith you want a tall,
gaunt, ferocious she-wolf —the child of Dam-
shicawgo and a female clothes-prop and
Mrs. Brough is everything but that. Even
if she had the originality, the initiative,
which the part requires, she is too good-looking,
too well-kept, has too much flesh on her face,
Her features are meant to smile : when she frowns
she is less impressive than grotesque. For the
rest, Miss Faber has the same misfortune ; her in-
significant features condemn her to insipidity.
Miss Spong is plump (“ Hilda, I charge thee put
away embonpoint ! ”); and does she try to imitate
Mrs. Brough ? Boucicault is good, as always ;
Brough is good, as nearly always. Ward, as
Lucas Cleeve, is fair—no more. The whole pro-
duction is not on a level with the company’s
version of “ Mrs. Tanqueray ” —but it is a lot
better than Australian audiences deserve.—Brig-
ham Brown, M.D., F.R.C.S.
The latest American advertising dodge.
A shopkeeper offered a silk dress to any woman
who would consent to be married in his show-
window. The whites shirked the publicity, but a
colored girl consented, and was duly spliced in full
view of a grinning crowd.
The reference and boycotting system has a
strong hold Out-back, despite the Union agita-
tors’ objections (writes a Bulletin correspondent).
As a rule, those loudest in condemning the
“ stiffs as bushmen call them—carry a “ White-
ly King” reference in one pocket and a Union
ticket in the other. Men are asked to show refer-
ences even when applying for foot-rotting sheep
or burr-cutting.
The dwellers at Warrandyte, one of the
least utterly hopeless of Vic. village settlements,
have struck a new terror, worse than rabbits. It
seems that wild deer invade Warrandyte in the
early morning and browse on young fruit trees,
not to mention cabbages and small salads. They
are protected by a penalty of <£ls a head for shoot-
ing at them, and no ordinary wire-netting is tall
enough to defeat their agility. Wherefore the
settlers crave leave to “ pot ” the deer, and as
Premier Turner can’t think of any reason why
these ruthless destroyers should be held sacred, it
is probable that venison will be cheap presently.
“ What shall he have who killed the deer? ” for-
sooth ! Down at Warrandyte he has been getting
<£ls, or three months, instead of several square
meals gratis.


CELLULAR UNDERCLOTHING
and CORSETS
FOR
COMFORT & HEALTH
A- During Hot Weather.
REVISED FREETRADE PRICE LIST.
Corsets ... ... 7/6 to 10/G
Ruling or Cycling Corsets, 10/-
Combinations ... ... 7/- to 21/-
Might Dresses ... ... 7/6 to 17/6
Under Vests ... ... 4/3 to 10/6
Petticoats ... ... 10/6 to 21/-
Chemises, Drawers and Hosiery.
Revised Price-List and Pamphlet post free.
CELLULAR CLOTHING DEPOT,
305 and 307 George Street, Sydney.
D. Braham <£ Co., Sole Ajents for N.S. IV.
Awarded
Gold Medal,
Ch ica {/ o,
1893.
COLEMANE A SONS, Ltd.,
WORLD-FAMED
Eucalypte Extract
(~}|JL?RQ Couaths, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
vy kj Consumption, Influenza, &c., &o.
ASK FOR
Colemane <£• Sons’ Eucalypte,
And SEE that you GET IT.
SOLD 6d. and 2s. 6d.
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
BRAWLIN, near COOTAMUNDRA, N.S.W.
A Pair of Horses
O’
A,
m
ii
00
will sfand Tram,
k perfectly quiet
\ whilst you
and
'Vv
AjSmoke
o
—-5
Cigarettes.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ Gondoliers;” “ Ma Mie
Rosette.”
Her Majesty’s “ To the West.”
R0ya1..... “The Enemy’s Camp.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Criterion “ Mixed.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princesss “The Notorious Mrs.
Ebbsmith.”
Alexandra “ The Sixth Command-
ment.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
That rather serious-minded production’
“ The Yeomen of the Guard,” began the operatic
season at Sydney Lyceum on Monday night. It
also served to introduce Mr. Courtice Pounds, the
Firm’s new tenor, and to re-introduce Miss Flora
Graupner after a long and lamentable absence of
nearly three years. Lau»i, Howard Vernon and
Miss Nina Osborne are likewise in the cast, and a
few other people of less importance, together with
one or two who don’t matter much. There are,
to all intents and purposes, only half-a-dozen
characters in the “Yeomen ? ” and a large and
valuable portion of the co. is therefore crowded
out, and held over for future publication.
*****
Courtice Pounds, as Colonel Fairfax,
proved to be a handsome individual, not nearly
so fat as many people expected, and looking in
some attitudes rather like Brownlow’s Henry IV.
Also, he is the possessor of a clear, melodious,
excellently-managed voice, and his first appearance
was an emphatic success all through. Miss Flo.
Graupner is practically unchanged, and her Elsie
Maynard is almost as good a performance as any-
thing she has yet done. But despite Lauri’s
jester, and the lofty and dignified tights of
Courtice Pounds, and the restoration of the long-
lost Flora, the best features of the opera are
Howard Vernon, gaoler and tormentor, and Miss
Nina Osborne in the short frock and tan stock-
ings of Phoebe Meryll. When one considers
this pair carefully, it seems almost a pity
that the opera doesn’t end differently. For if the
giddy Phoebe had married the large and affection-
ate tormentor, then their children might have
themselves polishing the thumbscrew
when they came home from school, and might
have done their home lessons on top of the rack,
and removed the oxide off the scavenger’s daughter
in between times, and otherwise helped the old
man in his declining years. Vernon's tormentor
is a grim, sallow, earnest, and apparently con-
scientious person, and The Bulletin considers it
Erobable that he would have made a good hus-
and. The “ Yeomen ”is a five-night, show only,
and by the time this issue appears it will be nearly
over. Sydney doesn’t enthuse much over it nowa-
days, and the fact that the “ Gondoliers ” goes up
on Saturday, and “Ma Mie Rosette ” in the
middlq of next week, is sufficient reason for drop-
ping the subject right here.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s the curtain no longer
goes up sideways or comes down mid first, and the
condenser has got into working order, and the big
explosion explodes regularly, and a lot of the
mesmerist’s needless loquacity has been cut out,
and “To the West” has settled down into a
reasonably workable melo-shriek which, at its
worst, is much better "than a lot of the imported
article. It is not particularly coherent, and never
will be, but not one melodrama in ten will screw
together at the joints, apd this one screws quite as
well as the average. And, anyhow, there is a
pleasant, more-or-less-Australian atmosphere about
it; it is suggestive of the salt-bush plains, and the
great Dead Sheep Land, and Bill the wanderer,
who pervades the wastes Out Back, and our own
great national drought, and many other things
pertaining to this rising country. And the spec-
tacle of Dampier disguised as a maundering old
shepherd driving a flock of sheep through a dust-
cloud past a public-house arouses feelings of pride
concerning Australia’s staple product—that pro-
duct which infests the interior on the back of the
shiftless merino, and' furnishes employment for
Drover Bill and his dog, and finally drives the
squatter “ into an asylum for insane paupers,”
** * *
The “Work Girl” ends its unhonored
career this week. The partially-naked, flying Sem-
ite will fly for the last time, and Westinacott will
wheel his superfluous fruit barrow across the stage
to its final disappearance on Friday night.’ On
Saturday the Co. will produce “The Enemy’s
Camp,” which has a fine sound about it
suggestive of the breaking down of the commissariat
waggon in the distance, and the bang and clatter
of war, and Sweeny going off at furious speed for
reinforcements, and the large heroic trumpeter
blowing his very vitals into his brassy instrument,
and. the general calling out from the rear to charge
and disembowel everybody and everything. If
“ The Enemy’s Camp ” is as good as it sounds, it
should be a pleasant change from several things
that have happened lately.
*# * *
The Sydney Criterion co. is still living up
to the good report which this paper gave it last
week, and “Mixed” seems good for some time
longer, if required. No news about a change of
programme has so far come to hand.
** * *
A considerable portion of the Rickards co.
having left Sydney for another sphere of useful-
ness, it was considered necessary to pour oil on
the lacerated feelings of the public by turning on
the valuable Coleman once more at the Tivoli.
Unless something totally unexpected intervenes,
therefore, that serious-looking person will have
again laid his astonishing legs before the com-
munity by the time these remarks appear in print.
La Belle Maie is also announced. This lady is
new to Sydney, and that city has gashed itself a
good deal while shaving during the last week or
two, through wondering what she may be like.
** * *
The Opera House, about the most con-
sistently unlucky in Sydney, is to be
re-opened next Saturday by the Cogill Brothers
with another variety co. The Bulletin respects
the pluck of these brothers—but its opinion about
their discretion is simply unpublishable.
** * *
Sydney Music Hall, out of an undue
desire for variety, has lately turned on a Highland
sword-dance person, and a Professor who swings
the Indian clubs. The Indian club business, to
The Bulletin’s eye, has always seemed to be
merely a sad, purposeless agitation of wood ; and
the sword-dance, when done in all its beautiful
entirety, looks like a man with an obsolete weapon
gone raving mad in petticoats. However, this is
only a casual opinion offered without profound
study of the subject; and the rest of the programme
is good enough to atone for these things.
** * *
“ Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith,” lately holding
forth to sympathetic sisters in Sydney, carried her
troubles to Melb. Princess’s, last Saturday night,
and got a very favorable hearing. It is as the
heroine of a play for ladies that Mrs. Ebbsmith
may prove a sound B. and. B. investment. She
possesses a large intellect, yet she pitches a Bible
into a burning fiery furnace, which is foolish, and
immediately snatches the singed volume out again
and hugs it to her bosom, which is a mere act
of Bible idolatry, inconsistent with deep
thinking. She has been educated up (or
down) to haremic pleasures by a man whose
memory she despises, nevertheless the ardor
of the one she loves doesn’t seem to appeal to
those old-established feelings. Mrs. Ebbsmith
is quite a genuine womanly woman, made to ap-
pear an oddity by unusual circumstances. She
admits, with her bare elbows resting uncon-
cernedly upon a hot stove, that her sex has found
her out. Then she rebels against her natural
impulses, at the bidding of a petty Rev. Amos
and his priggish sister, and flees to a dreary
vicarage, where she devotes her lively intellect to
the subject of Jonah and the whale, and the con-
templation of cheap pictures of bogus saints. Or
perhaps she returns finally to her Lucas. On the
other hand, perhaps she doesn’t.
* * * *
The story of Mrs. Ebbsmith may have
strong human interest for women, but it doesn’t
agitate the other fellows. An ordinary man, un-
happily, thinks very little more about the true in-
wardness of female character than a rooster
worries about a hen’s. The keenest male student
of this fascinating subject can get no further than
the discovery that a woman’s sex is always finding
her out and playing pranks with her. Having
discovered the existence of the mystery, he says
“ Amen ! ” and closes the book for ever, if he be
wise. That cold-blooded, commercial-minded
romancer, Rider Haggard, commenting on the
simple cussedness of women, suggests that men,
unable to weigh female motives in the
scales of their own experience, must con-
sole themselves with the reflection that
the inexplicable is generally not worth under-
standing. Pinero’s play holds up a mirror wherein
the fair sex may catch reflections of its cussedness.
The sex will like “Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith,”
consequently a good many men will be dragged
thither. To the present writer’s way of thinking,
this gloomy play is admirable, on account of the
dialogues, until religion comes snuffling into the
third apt. Then it grows irritating. But how
like a woman ! A clever Angelina is a delightful
circumstance as long as she keeps Rev. Amos at
bay, not longer.
* * * *
Boucicault’s naughty old Duke promises to
be one of his first-class representations anon,
though his Grace thus far strikes one as being
more amusing than real. Miss Faber is always at
home in a truly Kerristian character, but Cecil
Ward and Miss Spong are neither very real nor
amusing. Mrs. Brough, without a doubt, fails to
make the most, or nearly the most, of her great
part. She plays to the gods, and is plainly acting
when naturalism is most required of her. Never-
theless, Australia doesn’t hold another lady who
could perform Mrs. Brough’s task with equal
effect, also Cecil Ward is about the best man pro-
curable for the part of Lucas Cleeve. So, m a
comparative way of speaking, “Notorious Mrs.
Ebbsmith ” is excellently interpreted.
** * *
B. and B.’s advt. extracts from the “ Mrs.
Ebbsmith ” dialogue are calculated to tickle
womankind, “There’s only one hour in a
woman’s life—a moment when circumstance taps
her upon the shoulder and says ‘ Woman, this
hour is the best that earth can spare to you.’ It
may come to her in calm or in tempest, &c., &c.”
The Bulletin’s idea is that the Hour aforesaid
always comes to her in tempest, if her best boy is
anyway equal to the occasion. For, after all, the
hour depends upon the man—
“ The Sixth Commandment ” gives indi-
cations of running into a third week at Melb.
Alexandra. Dan Barry’s cheerful horror is reminis-
cent of “ Mrs. Ebbsmith ” in two awful particulars.
There’s a parson in it, likewise a furnace, and the
parson commits a ship’s officer to the fire in exactly
the same way as Mrs. Brough starts to destroy her
good book. He opens the iron door and pops
the gentleman upon the glorious coals. But he
doesn’t regret the rash deed and take the officer
back to his heart. Another satisfactory feature of
the Alexandra drama is a local allusion, intro-
duced by the manager in person. Dan Barry,
whilst prowling casually around somebody s pre-
mises, finds a Chinaman, and a Chow in P 1 ®
drawing-room is an uncommon occurrence, which
calls for some explanation. Dan Barry draws the
inference that the unknown householder is a
magistrate, whom Ah Sin has been interviewing.
** * *
Charles Godfrey’s clever treatment of
several not very brilliant music-hall songs is
making him liked at Melb. Opera House. Young
Australia doesn’t shout itself hoarse over the jingo
song, “Balaclava,” with its handsome scenic
trimmings, but the “ actor vocalist, travelling
solely on his own individual merits, impresses the
boys a good deal. Slade Murray’s imitation of God-
frey’s style and voice has discounted the original
man’s novelty to almost the same extent
that Thornton spoilt Edward Terry s effect in
“Sweet Lavender” when he produced it here
years after the mimic had played it out. But in
Godfrey’s case there is the redeeming fact that his
imitator didn’t beat him at any point.
** * *
The Royal will re-open on February 29th
with “The Land of the Moa.”
3{f 5^
It is customary to mourn the departed
theatrical glories of Melbourne’s boom-time, when
the first Gaiety Co., headed by Leslie, barren,
Letty Lind and Sylvia Grey, brought johnnies to
ruin, and the price of a dress-circle seat was 50
per cent, higher than normal. Yet, as a matter
of fact, seven weeks of “ Djin-Djin ” yielded more
coin to the Princess’s treasury than the first seven
weeks of the first Gaiety Co.
*# * *
Theatrical and press friends of amiable
Phil. Greenwood are arranging a testimonial for
him, in view of his intention to escape the coming
winter by tripping ’Ome with the Australian
Eleven. 111-health has of late caused W. and M’s.
long-time and long-haired secretary to drop con-
siderably out of sight after dark, but his claim to
a testimonial ought to be more apparent on that
account. A sea trip is a positive necessity for
Greenwood, and the contemplated purse of
sovereigns will do the patient a lot of good. Cash
communications on this subject may be addressed
to Treasurer Tallis at the Princess’s Theatre.
*m * *
Theatrically, all is chaos in Adelaide.
The performing bears have GONE.
WOMAN'S HOUR.
A sudden clasp of hand in hand,
A cling of mouth to mouth,
And Love makes beautiful the land—
North, east, and west, and south.
The air seems filled with fragrance sweet
Distilled from passion’s flower :
Life is a wondrous fair conceit
In Woman’s fleeting hour:
A poem, whispered to her ear
By Love, in softest tone
Not heard by him her heart holds dear—
The joy is hers alone—
Though Man, a creature gross and mean,
Soon turning sweetness sour,
Remains the painter of the scene—
The author of the Hour.
At Poverty Point.
Holdar M. : “ Isn’t it about time “ THE profession ” re-
laxed its tenacious hold on that synonym for Depression?
I am a patient man, but constant allusion to that weary
term by weather-beaten, egg-battered derelicts of this
order whose toes protrude from their boots as they ex-
citedly extol the shallow pomps and vanities of their
craft—l nearly said graft—chafes even my abject spirit.”
Amj’ Sherwin, the now celebrated Tas. singer, was
reared at Forest Home, in the lovely Huon district. When
the Cagli-Pompei opera - troupe was in Tasmania, Fred
Packer, now in Sydney, told Pompei he knew of a girl
who had a lovely voice, and that if Pompei liked he would
undertake that she would sing in Donizetti’s “ Pasquale.”
Within three weeks from that date, old Pompei gladly
agreed to the proposal, in which he knew there must be
money ; and Backer coached Miss Sherwin, who did sing
in “ Pasquale ” as arranged. Success followed success,
and that was how Amy’s big career had its beginning,
till now the fair Tasmanian holds her own amongst the
first singers of the day.
An interesting dispute went on at Sydney Lyceum
betweeu Mrs. Brough and Dot Boucicault anent
the wayward Mrs. Ebbsmith. The actress holds, and
gives effect to the conviction in playing, that “ Mad
Agnes” is a cold, callous, loveless creature at heart,
whereas manager Boucicault insists that she is intended
to be a woman full of love and passion, with these feelings
temporarily frozen over by her hard struggle against
conventionality and its brutal ways. Author Pinero has
been appealed to as to which conception he intended.
Mrs. Brough, anxious to challenge comparison with Mrs.
Patrick Campbell at every possible point, will do Fedora
in Melb.—a part that Mrs. Pat. didn’t illuminate over-bril-
liantly in London recently. When shall we see Mrs. B.
as Juliet?
An Oscar Wilde play that the B. and B. co. hasn’t
yet touched is “ A Woman of No Importance,” written
after “ Lady Windermere’s Fan.” It will be put on
during the Melb. season. There are two fine leading
parts, created by Beerbohm Tree and Mrs. Bernard Beere,
which Titheradge and Mrs. Brough will tackle.
In the critical eye of George Bernard Shaw, there is but
one actress in the world, and her name is Janet Achurch.
Shaw writes all his leading female characters round this
clever woman. When Dot Boucicault was in London a
year ago, G. B. S. was anxious that he should produce a
new play he had written -a marvellously-clever play, says
D. B.—called “ Katrina.” Boucy didn’t see the fun of
risking money in a London venture at that time, but
offered to do the thing well in Australia. “Then you
must take Janet Achurch for the leading part,” insisted
Shaw, “ or leave the. play alone altogether.” With Mrs.
Brough here, Boucicault couldn t very well import
the Ibsenite actress, so Shaw’s play won’t happen in Aus-
tralia.
Genial Mick Tier, the mummers’ friend, aged 49 and
weighing 225 t., much of it heart, died in Adelaide the
other day. formerly a clown in Burton’s circus, and
latterly a publican in S.A., Mick was known to every
hard-up pro. on the road, and probably organised more
benefits for stranded artists than anyone else in Australia
He was a great friend of Jennings, the Tasmanian fat
man, and there is a photo, extant of Tier and Jennings
who jointly weighed 6761 b. ° ’
Alleged that Brough and Boucicault have tabooed Ade-
laide and that W. and M„ through an old trouble re the
theatre-owner’s boxes, have also struck the holy city off
their opera co s list. Adelaide has but one big theatre
and henceforth the most exciting amusement will be the
church bazaar, with the thrilling bran-pie and wrrf
Even raffles at a shilling a go become monotonous
after the curate has won seven times consecutively
George Lewis son of G. B. W. Lewis, late of Melb ’ Biiou
is now conductor of Harrison’s Orchestra of 150 perfor-
mers the largest touring combination in Europe George
was formerly an architect in Melb., but the musical fasem
ation proved too much for him-luckily, it would seem
viewed at this date. " u seenl >
Scot Inglis, one of the few good Australian-born mum
mers, at present engaged on a weary nightly search for
his long-lost che-ild at Sydney Royal) leaves forTmer ca
in a few months time. lerioa
Rumour has it that after the B. and B. semratinn ™
Jul ? e , Brough "’ill join forces with “ the finn ”
ideafanyhow. C,em ' C °- existence ' A
Dot Boucicault’s intentions, after he leaves partner
W,’" e no more definite than that he goes to Lon
don. “Things have been so iollv definite will,
says, “ for the last seven years that I want to be in a state
of indecision as long as possible. I have had one or two
London schemes put before me but shill aettL two
thing for some months to come"’’ The cDver little ee"°'
dian is a ready snap for any manager in“ I
UmMun-kan theatres have long be = en anglinglor’hiTser 6
Godfrey," a“souVartist, ‘°
dently two music-halls might very "veil he d ® Vl '
with fresh London infusions, instead of the cycle of dead”
beats. Really the variety show ir» cleaci-
a higher stand than the dramk Loot
‘Balaclava.’ In one aspect it at Godfreys
"hat is only the political l view. As' art istffi *’ - but
genuine attempt to elevate the ideals o ! ™?! 1 ; 1 ls a
to relish the cerulean. The crave L a f P ubllc . apt
opposed to preachy comedy and prunella ” Vanety ’ as
Apropos the cable re photo'Tanhim, .
substances. One of a certain Yankee opa( l ue
cause a newspaper to be stuck ur> it . pricks was to
entirely hidden from his viewby P t wo w
then to proceed to (apparently) read the pape" Throat
the blankets. When a negress saw him at this she got up
hurriedly and said : “ If dat man can read dat paper
through dem ther blankets den my clothes ain’t no per-
tection to me”—and she forthwith banged up her
“ gamp,” and, getting behind it, backed out of the hall.
Dear Bulletin, —Your par. about a theatrical super-
stition that ill-luck followed Nelly Barren after a gift of
lyre-bird’s feathers recalled to me some incidents on board
the Liguria in ’BB, when I was a fellow-passenger of Miss
Barren and Mr. Fred. Leslie. Miss Barren had a great
dread of the number 13, and told us how she had, on
leaving London, invited some friends to a farewell supper.
At the last moment several were unable to attend, and,
after they had sat down, they found they were 13 ! While
she was relating the story I counted the people at the
captain’s table, and found that we were 13 1 This quite
upset Miss Barren, and the captain asked one of the
officers to make the fourteenth ; but several times during
the voyage we were again 13. During the trip Miss
Farren had a bad attack of gout, for which she
blamed the “ fatal 13.” The late Geo. Vining (once
manager of London Princess’s), if a play was mentioned to
him on a Friday would have nothing to do with it; but a
horseshoe was to him the emblem of unfailing good luck.
Once when he was coming down to Kent to the reading of
a new play of my father’s, my brother and myself (two
small children) placed two horseshoes on the path leading
from the station to our house. George Vining arrived
jubilant, with the horseshoes hanging on his walking-
stick, and accepted the drama without hearing it read.
Whether he blessed those horseshoes afterwards I don’t
remember. —Yours, Roland Watts Phillips.
Rudyard Kipling, writing to a Wellington (M.L.) friend
by last mail, dissipates a few current rumors re himself.
He hasn’t gone to India to “ write up ” that country for
the U.S. magazines, but is living at Naulakha, Waite,
Wyndham, County Vermont. “ Another cheerful error ”
he says, “ is the statement that ‘ Smythe’ (who the deuce
is Smythe ?) has got me down as a lecturer ! He may have
me down, but I don’t think he’ll ever get me up on the
platform.”
“ The Trilby Dance,” a big feature in Drury Lane
panto., goes to music written by a Victorian lady—Mrs.
Stewart, wife of Dr. Douglas Stewart, of Brunswick
(Melb.). She is now devoting herself to music. Mrs.
Stewart is money-lender David Henry’s daughter.
At one Paris music-hall Mdlle. Alengon, a very hand-
some woman, comes on with nothing upon her but a
chemise and a diamond necklace, and explains her lack of
garments by saying she has lost all her money in the
Transvaal, and has only what she stands up in. Then the
audience cheers as one man.
Brough’s part in the “ Notorious Mrs. E.,” i& being
played in Melbourne by Cyril Keightley. Brough (on (lit)
wanted the part that Boucicault allotted to himself, and
only played in Sydney under protest.
Talking of Cyril Tyler, and his rapid change from a
freaky soprano into a legitimate tenor. About four years
ago, at a Sunday Masonic Service in Melbourne Town
Hall, the then well-known chorister boy, Horace Stevens
sang a treble solo very charmingly. Brother Truelove’
who conducted the musical service on that occasion, was
lately called upon to arrange a similar entertainment in
aid of some Melbourne lodge. Moreover, he was particu-
larly desired to let them have another solo from the
youngster who sang so sweetly of yore, Masons in general,
it seemed, being under the impression that a boy’s treble
endures for the term of his natural life. Truelove fed the
delusion with a solemn assurance that the same young
artist should certainly appear again, which promise was;
fulfilled. The audience heard a rather tall, slim young
man of 19, or so, roll forth a solo in a deep baritone.
That was the original Horace Stevens, with four years’
growth added to him. He has developed a fine man’s
voice, and is likely to make a name for himself anon.
Marie Elster had an offer of a three-years’ engagement
at J.TO a week with the Carl Rosa Company, but was not
disposed to tie herself down to such modest terms for so
long a time. Besides, the engagement was not to com-
mence before this year.
Sims Reeves will, The Bulletin’s London correspondent
thinks, be another disillusionment to Australians. The
shining star has almost become a cold cinder. Like
another leonine-headed patriarch, Reeves has just married
a young wife, and his vocal energy has not been increased
thereby. He sings to a piano accompaniment and
entirely to his own “ time.” The usually-noisy music-hall
is hushed during his items, which are gasped forth, the
notes being economically restrained. No attempting to
“ bring” the audience with a final C. Just a clear, cor-
rect, almost sweet, slow appeal to Maud, for, I suppose,
the ten-thousandth time, to come out into the snailwalk.
But the “ house ” gives him an ovation every time.
Mr. Bertie Kennerley Rumford, a baritone who is
making good progress in London, is said to be anxious to
make Mary Boucicault Mrs. Bertie Rumford. Miss Bouci- '
cault has returned to Paris again, and friends wait im-
patiently for news of her ddbut. Her health may never,
permit it.
On th e night before she was to sail for America, Ethel?
Haydon begged to be allowed to remain in England. She
said she could not go without her mother, and that both
were very bad sailors; then she pleaded by saying they
could not leave Mr. Haydon in London, whereupon George
Edwardes offered to pay Tom’s expenses too, but still
Ethel demurred, and Mr. Edwardes yielded to her request
not to be banished to America. Rather a big concession
to the young burlesque actress !
“ Paul and Virginia,” the two youthful dancers who are
M?Peanng at the Brighton (Eng.) pantomime of “ Dick
Whittington,” are a nephew and niece of Mr. Synnott, of
djyorce-petition celebrity. Their mother, Mrs.
Boswell Reid, of Geelong, is the wife of the Pivot doctor
of that name, and was a Miss Synnott before her marriage.
Mrs. Reid is busy piloting her two youngsters in their
professional career.
~ Grade Warner has “a nice but small part” in the
Sign of the Cross,” which promises to be one of the
greatest London successes of late years. Clement Scott
gave her a very good notice for her style, but her voice,
writes a Bulletin correspondent, is just as small as when
she played in Australia.
At a Southern theatre the light tenor has been suffering
from influenza for some time past, and cannot appear.
1 1 " er f )T as . a disagreement with the heavy bass man
aDout the inevitable woman, and a lovely go-in one
mornmg at rehearsal. The basso, fat and unreliable, was
getting a hieing from the tenor, who has a “dirty left,”
so he sat on the light tenor and flattened him out, and
until the latter is rounded off again he will be unable to
appear.
“ Memento Mori,” by Clement Scott, in remembrance
of his friends, Arthur Dacre and Amy Roselle :
Come, crimson Death, with poppy-lidded eyes,
Kiss me with open mouth, perfumed with dreams !
Love’s land at last! Pure Love that never dies,
Our world is what it is, not what it seems !
Creep closer still, give me thy drowsy breath,
Touch me ! For this is Life ! It is not Death !


The Sydney Furnishing House,
J. W. Cliff, Junr& Co.,
175 PITT STREET (next King-st.).
“ Economy is the Watchword. '’
We have made a study of
Economical House Furnishing,
and solicit an INSPECTION of our Large
Show-Rooms, where we offer really
ARTISTIC, WELL-MADE
AT p URN ITU RE
LOW PRICES.
OUR
“HAMFDEN” WALNUT s t deboabd,
sft. wide by 7ft. 6in. high,
At IS A WONDER.
MILES T. CARROLL &. CO.,
Mining and Finance Brokers , Valuators , utr.,
PRACTICAL & RELIABLE FINANCIAL ADVISERS
—IN-
STOCK, SHARES, OR RIAL ESTATE.
Trust Money advantageously Invested. ’ Best
Interest and Security obtained.
Experts report on Mines throughout Australia.
10 Uucen-st., .lie.bourne. [Telephone 1003.
MINES REPORTED ON OH SUPERVISED
—BT—
WILLIAM NICHOLAS, F-GS., Lou.,
t'ouMilliiig Minins Engineer,
Late Lecturer on Minins in the University of Melbourne ;
Leoturer on Geology as applied to Mining, Bendigo School
of Mints; of the Mining and Geological Department of
Victoria, etc. Author of “The Golden Quartz Reefs of
Australia,” “ Coolgardie Goldfields,” etc. Address—
Coolyardie, Western Australia.
Niagara (W.A.) field has put £90,000 into
the pockets of the two Adelaide discoverers,
Durham Doolette, son of G. Boulder Doolette, and
Charley Northmore. Britishers cwn a large slice
of country there, which accounts for so little being
heard about Niagara in the East. But it promises
to be one of the best reefing fields (reefs opened
up average 40*.) in that land groaning under the
incubus of the six families.—Aov r.
The Wild- Cut Coiumn.
T he Bank of North Queensland has had only a
.’moderately good time for the half-year ended 3 a Dec.
The net profits are returned at £llB2, against -11736 for
previous half, and 1 1674 for the one ending Dec. 31, ’94.
The profit is only equal to a div. of a little over 2 per
cent, per annum, so the board has wisely added it to the
previous balance, making 3945 carried forward. The
B.N.Q. has released all its reconstructed deposits, and a
large portion of them have been paid in cash. The whole
deposits are now only £191,755, compared with 250,488 a
year ago, and the bank has £79,990 in liquid assets, equal
to nearly 40 per cent, on all liabilities, which is almost
the biggest reserve in Australasia. Expenses are being
steadily cut down ; the profits are being used to gradually
write down the assets to bedrock prices; and the release
of the fixed deposits will make a further great saving in
interest, so things ought to look much better before long.
And, considering that the unpaid capital alone (saying
nothing of the £454,000 of cash and other assets) would
cover all the liabilities to the public and leave a big
margin, the depositors are in a safer position than those
of almost any other bank in Australasia.
* * * *
South Australia, which already has a debt equal
to £62 10s. per inhabitant, is floating another loan of
£839,500—in London, as usual. It is offered at 3 per
cent., with a minimum of £94, and, after paying all
expenses, even if the loan sells at £95 all round, the
interest will probably amount to at least 3.) per cent.—
probably more, considering the loss at redemption.
Just now, there is some £25,000,000 of gold lying in the
Australian banks, about £7,000,000 of which is idle
simply because it can’t find a safe and readily-realisable
investment at any price ; and, under these circumstances,
it is at least 10 chances to 1 that the S.A. loan would
have been taken up as cheaply in this country as in
England. The Australian money-market is quite as much
overstocked, in proportion to its size, as that of England ;
and the saving of the 12s. 6d. per cent, stamp-duty pay-
able to the J. Bull Government, and the cost of remitting
interest each half-year to London, are two big items in
favor of flotation in Australia. Taking all into account,
a loan floated at £92 here would be about as good as one
at £94 in England. Also, local flotation would have kept
£25,000 a year interest in the country without diverting a
single penny from any other enterprise, the money being
now absolutely idle and profitless. Under these conditions,
any Government that was cap >ble of getting out of the
ancient financial rut would at least have made the attempt
to do its financing locally. The idea of borrowing (."800,000
of British money and bringing it into a country which has
already some £7,000,000 in hand which it doesn’t know
what to do with, is more than grotesque.
* * * *
Montgomerie's Brewery Co. (Melbourne) made
a loss for last half-year of £1660. Previous half-year
the profit was only £49; for the half ending 31st
December, 1894, it was £l7B, and for the one ending June,
’94 it was £922. Therefore, in two years it has made a net
loss of £5ll, and it has also written £BOOO off its previous
balance to cover depreciation of assets, so it may be
said to have dropped £B5ll, or very near it, in 24 months.
Also, it has an overdraft, which has been practically
stationary for a long time, of £68,000, and the interest on
this is weighingitdown heavily. Yet the “goodwill” of the
concern is set down as an asset worth £25,000, and if this
alleged asset were taken out, the co. would have a short-
age of over £22,000. Query : what man would pay £25,000
for the privilege of losing £1660 in one half-year? One
M‘Gregor is chairman of this erstwhile great but now
somewhat melancholy beer-concern—-the same M‘G., The
Bulletin believes, who lately declared that no country
ever prospered unless Scotchmen were at the head of
affairs.
* * * •
The practice of setting down “goodwill ” as an
asset is generally unsound. The goodwill is sometimes
valuable if the co. sells its business as a going concern ; if
the co. bursts and goes into liquidation," it is almost
always absolutely worthless. Therefore, goodwill, in per-
haps nine cases out of ten, is an asset which is only valu-
able when it isn’t wanted, and is of no use at all when it
is wanted. And that kind of an asset is always a thing to
be viewed in a depressed spirit.
* * * *
The Vic. revenue fell behind the estimate by
£65,340 in the first half of the financial year, but in
January it suddenly got ahead of the estimate by £57,940,
so that the shortage is now only £7400, and if some rich
man only dies Premier Turner still has hopes that he
may not only make ends meet, but pay off £250,000 of the
old deficit. New South Wales revenue, for the six
months ended 31st December, kept well ahead of the
estimates, but in January it fell £63,000, and, though it is
still ahead of the estimate, this sudden shock makes
Premier Reid wear an anxious expression behind his eye-
glass. If there are no more shocks, however, everything
will be pretty right.
* * * *
When the Commercial Bank of Australia
appeals to its depositors for a reduction of interest, it
will have five strong points in its favor which no other re-
constructed bank has yet possessed. (1) It has called up
every penny of its available capital, and, if the de-
positors squeezed it, they couldn’t thereby get any
more out of the shareholders than is being got out of them
already. (2) Probably they would get less ; the share-
holders are paying up remarkably well while the bank is
going, but, if it stopped, a lot of them would compel the
liquidators to fight at law for every cent of their money.
(3) Liquidation would mean the permanent stoppage of
the present business, which is worth, even now, a good
deal per annum, which mostly goes to the depositors. (4)
It would mean forcing the sale of the assets in a market
which can hardly get worse by waiting, and which may
get better. (5) The worse that can happen to the ordi-
nary shareholders, over and above what is happening
already, is the loss of their shares, and, as these are
wholly valueless and pay no dividends, and seem likely to
continue that way for a very long time, and as a lot of the
ordinary capital may have to be written off in any case,
the fear of losing their shares has no more terrors for
many of them than the fear of losing their mother-in-law.
So, if the depositors turn nasty, a lot of the ordinary
shareholders will probably tell them to go right ahead
and be .
* * * *
One of the pleasant things about the Commer-
cial Bank, before and since reconstruction, says chairman
Service, is its purity from scandal of any sort. The
tumultuous cheering of the tall-hatted meeting when the
venerable James gets off little statements of this kind is
another pleasant thing.
* * * *
Nat. Levi’s predictions of a fine time coming for
Commercial Bank shareholders were a little too “ thick ”
even for James Service, who cautioned the meeting not to
be led away by Mr. Levi’s hopeful views.
* * * *
Balmain New Ferry Co. had a traffic revenue
last year of £9730 —decidedly the best return up to date—
and seems to be in a highly prosperous state. Neverthe-
less, its balance-sheet is a remarkable affair. It pays alO
per cent, div., yet it has not fully paid off its prelimi-
nary ex.’s ; and such an alleged asset as “ preliminary
expenses, £676,” is a thing to be wiped out with all pos-
sible speed, even if the div. has to be kept down to 8 per
cent, to do it. Another asset is “ articles of association,
£33 18s. 3d,” which looks as if it should have been written
off as expenses. Articles of association are not an espe-
cially saleable asset. The co. has an insurance-fund of
exactly £lOO, which is a miserably small guarantee
upon £ll,OOO worth of floating property, seeing that one
little collision might send £4OOO to the bottom in five
minutes. The reserve for maintenance of steamers (£500)
and reserve for equalisation of dividends (£300) are un-
objectionable, but as these reserves and the div. absorb
£240 more than the year’s net profits, they look a trifle
ridiculous. Moreover, the general reserve-fund, which
was 1332 at the end of ’94, is now set down at only £304,
and the difference has apparently been put among the
receipts and used to swell the profits and the div. A
board which goes fooling with the reserve in this un-
authorised manner evidently knows nothing of its busi-
ness. Last year a div. of £342 was declared, and yet the
amount is charged in the balance-sheet as £4lO, and
what has become of the difference is wholly unexplained.
The boats at December, ’94, were valued at £12,239, and,
after writing off £1032 for depreciation, they appear, in
next balance-sheet, at £11,147, which doesn’t square by a
long way. The reserves, according to the articles of the
association, must be invested in the Govt. Savings Bank
or in Govt, debentures, but no such investment is shown.
The chairman hasn’t signed the balance-sheet as required
by the articles. There is no reserve-fund account at all.
“ Furniture, turnstiles and general plant” in ’94 stood at
£134 4s. 7d., and, after writing off £l9 6s. 6d. for deprecia-
tion, they stand now at £l7O Bs. Id., which needs some
explanation that certainly isn’t afforded. Altogether, the
Balmain New Ferry Co.’s balance-sheet is a marvellous
affair, and the co. seems to be run on pure pick-and-
shovel principles.
* * ♦ »
The Australasian Building and Investment
Society (Melbourne), which, when last heard from, had
£5300 less assets than liabilities, has taken a short cut out
of its difficulties with its depositors. It owed £lO,OOO to
these individuals, most of whom received an exorbitant
rate of interest as interest goes nowadays, so the directors
advanced the needful amount of their own money at 4
per cent, and paid off the lot. Also, they offer to reduce
the interest on this advance if necessary. This wholly
unusual kind of director ought to be encouraged. The
average director hurries to get his money out at a crisis
instead of putting it in.
* * « *
Some pleasant little clauses put by Gillies into
the boom Bill for Melb. Tramways are now coming home
to roost. The eight-hours clause has been under violation
for some time, and now Premier Turner is going to talk to
the co. and consult his law-officers. As the Tramway Co.
depends on cutting down its wages-sheet and stretching
the time-sheet for dividends, it is silently cursing Gillies’s
memory.
+ * * f
Perth (W.A.) City Council is having still more
experience of what private enterprise means. The
Council lately asked the Govt, to terminate the trouble
with the Water-Supply Co. by buying the latter out.
Meanwhile the co., scenting trouble, sold out to another
co., engineered by the energetic H. M. Deakin, of Sydney
land-boom celebrity. The Govt, is now willing to buy at
the price which would have been offered to the original
co., but the new co. wouldn’t be headed by Deakin unless
it wanted a profit on its bargain, and the result is a price
which Govt, considers prohibitive. There matters stand
at present.
* * * *
As a safeguard the N.S.W. steamship owners
put an “L” and “G” in some obscure part of their
tickets, which is supposed to mean “ Lady” and “Gentle-
man.” Hence, if one of the other sex presents the wrong
ticket, the co. will know the ticket has changed hands,
and will refuse to carry. The only punishment the holder
of the transferred ticket has to bear is the loss of passage.
The co’s could not prosecute, as transferring tickets
is no crime ; and, unlike the Railway Commissioners, the
co.’s have no officially-authorised by-law to rely on.
» * * *
The Yic. Supreme Court deeision that a credi-
tor’s judgment against a married woman cannot be
enforced by imprisonment capsizes a pretty kettle of fish.
There are numbers of married women in business in their
own names in and around Melb., especially in the bung-
trade, the husband keeping dark in some other line.
Knowing the risks they ran, and the natural facility of
married women in quietly disposing of assets, suppliers
have always relied on the Fraudulent Debtors’ Act to
make the debtors part. Judge Holroyd’s decision adds
another industry to the list of “ how to live on the
never ” in Melbourne.
• * * *
A recent English decision (under the Companies
Act) makes “ auditors ” officers of the company. Impor-
tant, especially in view of the hints that it is a step
towards making directors also officers of the company
from which they receive their salary or wages or
honorarium.
* * * *
The worst of the sweaters are large dairy-
farmers, who retail their milk in Melb. They make their
farm-laborers work about 15 hours a day for 10s. per
week, and the food they give them is of the coarsest des-
cription. The men they employ in town are not treated
much better.
» * * *
A well-gilt Melb. syndicate is quietly gathering
in Metro. Board of Works’ long-dated bonds at prices
from £lO3 to £lO3 10s., expecting a good rise when the
investment strengthens again.
* * * *
A State monopoly of tobacco is much favored in
Vic. The Government expert lately imported from Vir-
ginia, U.S.A., is in raptures about the outlook of the
tobacco-industry.
• * * *
White Feather Reward Co., 235 tons for 4740 z.
smelted gold.
British shareholders, at latest dates, were per-
tinently asking why they had not received any of the five
Lake View divs. declared in ’95, the first as far back as
July. This does not speak well for the management.
* * * *
“ Glowing accounts are given by the prospectors
of the new Eldorado lying—good word !—75 miles n. of
Lake Carey. The reefs are said to be ‘ studded with
gold.’ The Hawk’s Nest is described as a second Hannan’s
for lode formation, whilst the well-defined quartz-reefs
are wonderfully rich in both coarse and fine gold.” This
and a lot more rich finds all appear in one Coolgardie
wire. If Eastern people could only be brought to believe
these things the Broken Hill boom would be a fool to the
Westralian one. But in face of so much richness going on
now for three solid years, it is inexpressibly sad to remem-
ber that even poor N.S.W. turns out more gold.
♦ * * *
Particulars of some recent Westralian mine
flotations, taken from Clarke and Co.’s share-list, are in-
teresting. The Black Prince (Coolgardie) is a fair sample
of about 10 such promising ventures. 100,000 shares in
the co. ; 30,000 absorbed by the vendors and promoters,
and 20,000 reserved by the co., leaving 50,000 for the
public. A shilling per share paid up yields £2500, of
which the vendors take £2OOO. The mine starts with
£5OO, which has to support an office and a secretary, in
addition to working the reef.
* * * *
The wires from Westralia announcing that
miners are wanted at £6 per week should be looked on
with the utmost incredulity.
* * * *
A Westralian mine, sold in London for about
£lOO,OOO was (The Bulletin is told by an expert highly
honored in mining and other circles who has personal evi-
dence of some of the facts) floated on specimens obtained
three miles away. The man who reported on it for the
London buyers got 400 guineas. He also got 500 guineas
from the sellers. The two men who salted the alleged
show were carefully exported to their native land. It
would be rather hard to guess the name of that costly
duffer —because there are such a lot like it in similar case.
* * * *
Premier mine, 25-Mile, Coolgardie, first crush-
ing with the new battery, 67 tons, 1540 z.; “ but the
blanketings are yet to be treated.” How much blanket-
ings will it give ? probably not a ton. “ The manager ex-
pects a better average next crushing, and he has 100 tons
on the surface equal to that put through.” How some
bosses must bless the newspaper amateur mining man ! If
the stone is only of equal value, how can they get a better
average. It is always the next crushing which is going to
make the cake.
* * * *
Old John Wallace (Vic.) explains London boom-
mining by saying that mines that would pay well on
a capital of £50,000 or £60,000, are floated for £200,000, to
enable the promoters to grab the difference.
* » * *
Business on Perth Stock Exchange is so utterly
killed by the telegraphic collapse that on two days of last
week not one sale was effected. No one can get up-to-
date news from the mines, for even the hard-driven
camel, though a lot faster than the W.A. telegraph, can’t
keep the city posted on the daily and hourly fluctuations.
No one can get information that is less than a week old as
to prices in Adelaide or Melbourne. And as no one cares
to buy into a mine that may have gone bung last week,
or to give £1 a share when the Adelaide price may have
dropped, for all he knows to the contrary, to 2s. 6d.,
things are dead.
« * * *
One of the clearest and most truthful statements
concerning W.A. mines has been made by a South Aus-
tralian, recently returned. He says, of Hannan’s, that
there are some English mines doing good, quiet work.
The early disastrous purchases made by English buyers
have evoked a spirit of mistrust and caution, and there
will be no more buying pigs-in-a-poke for some time.
Even the good things are crippled by the heavy tolls
taken by the London promoters. The market has been
smothered by holders of free-shares shovelling them on to
it. The idea of development is subservient altogether
to the idea of trading in shares. “ How is the market ? ”
—not “ How is the mine?”—is the question most eagerly
asked, although, for developments, it is worth while to
watch and see if the miners are operating at the “ evening
open-call ” sale at Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
From Cue : “ The Warden’s Court was crowded
on Tuesday, when a large number of exemption cases were
dealt with. The Golconda North and Fortune of War
mines applied for three months’ exemption, but were only
granted one month. The Francis Reward, Cue Victory,
and Orient were each granted one month’s exemption.
The Lake Austin was refused an exemption.” Ominous.
* * * *
The biggest liars have got away with the biggest
money in W.A.
* * * *
On a sulphide basis nothing is cheaper than
Broken Hill Proprietaries. People have got so used
to looking on the big mine as a phenomenon that when
they find its sulphides not much, if any, better than the
average in the smaller mines they are disappointed. But,
after all, it is the size of the property that deceives. The
Junction has a wonderful body in its western develop-
ment ; but investors and speculators might be startled
if they saw the vast hole that has already been made in it
—the result of practically all work being concentrated on
one spot. It is not possible to concentrate either all work or
all attention upon one patch of the big mine, with its
three blocks traversed from end to end by the lode ; so
that a patch quite as big as the Junction’s appears a
small thing in such a setting. It may not be that the
Proprietary has a body as rich as the Junction’s ; but
underlying its kaolin patches it certainly has many thou-
sands of tons of very rich sulphides quite undrawn upon
so far, not to mention the vast bodies of fair-grade stuff in
other parts. And, meantime, it, and it alone of Broken
Hill mines, has some carbonate ore to speak of. It has
still probably as much as any two others, bar Block 14,
ever had together—which is a considerable thing to say.
At the same time, it must not be forgotten that the B.H.
Proprietary Co. is in 960,000 shares, and that a ss. per
share rise means over a quarter of a million added to the
market-value.
« * * *
During 1895 eighteen men were killed while
working at the Broken Hill mines. Also, 18 mining-
dividends were paid. In 1894 the fatal accidents num-
bered only 9. The South disaster brought up the past
year’s figures.
* * * »
The B. H. South, The Bulletin said the other
week, ought to be paying small divs., as even before the
accident in its workings, when eight men lost their lives
seven months ago, it was understood to have money in
hand. A comparison of the workings then and now gives
some answer to the question why divs. have not been
paid. The mine is now a forest of timber. General
manager Gluyas obviously dreads another collapse.
Perhaps a good deal might be saved if there were better
means of introducing mullock from the surface to fill up
with. As it is, while the management is praiseworthily
protecting the workmen, most of the profits that had
been counted upon are certainly going to the timber-
merchants.
* * * *
The million slump in Broken Hills has made
small meat of Melb. brokers, all of whom were more or
less holders at from 60s. to 655. Also, Adelaide’s million-
aire brewer, Sims, must feel rather sick. He was about
the heaviest Australian buyer at 60s. and 61s. Apart from
the yield-drop, Britishers, who snapped up all the big par-
cels offering at 30s. and thereabouts, have been unloading
for their profit.
* * * *
It is as well to remember that North B.H. shares
are principally held by a band of 20 speculators.
* * * *
J3.H. Pinnacle Group endeavoring to oust its
tributors on the pretext of an alleged breach of tribute
covenant. The party has still seven years of life. Co.
wants to have a finger in the sulphide-boom, hence the
move.
» • » *
Two London companies—the Junction Lead
and Lagoon Paddock Syndicates—are selling off their
extensive plant and machinery (particulars of which are
advertised in this issue) at Gulgong, N.S.W., on March 4.
The syndicates have had very hard luck, having spent
about _tlB,ooo in deep sinking without having struck any-
thing particularly auriferous.
♦ * * *
Reported intention of the B.H. South to strike
a machinery call quietly strangled by the big shareholders,
with an offer to finance the £4OOO required on the security
of the £9OOO worth of ore en route for London.
* * * *
B.H. North concentrating mill is at work, run-
ning smoothly. May Bros,, of Gawler, will hardly make
money out of the job of building it; but the work is done
well. B.H. Central (Ashcroft process syndicate’s mine)
will probably be the next to erect a mill.
* * * *
Shareholders in Baker’s Creek Extended have
refused an offer from London for the mine, surrounded
with conditions in favor of the promoters. The prospect
is a good one for a co. with a solid working capital ; it is
valueless without.
« * * *
•More jumping at Yalwal, N.S.W.—this time
the Golden Quarry, the present big-patch claim of the
field. It will probably be a long time before Yalwal
places a mine in London. The Homeward Bound mine
was just placed there on a solid basis when the news came
that the mine had been jumped, and all negotiations were
declared off. The time is nearing when London will de-
cline Jo deal with any Australian mine until the law with
respect to jumping has been completely changed. Which
is the one and only good reason for leaving the law as it is.
« * * •
The present Pambula sensation is the Victory.
Already 43 tons have gone 16oz. gold to the torp and the
formation is described as the most permanent-looking
thing yet found on the field. Some people are said to be
nibbling at it at a big figure.
* ♦ « *
London holds 547,427 out of 960,000 B.H. Pro-
prietary shares ; Adelaide, 224,305 (Millionaire Brewer
Sims principally); Melbourne, 151,876 ; Sydney, 25,001.
Block 10 : Melb., 73,113 ; Adelaide, 21,382 ; Sydney, 3853.
Biock 14 .‘ Adelaide, 56,585 ; Melb., 83,273 ; Sydney, 6962.
Si - ™?," : London, 177,454 ; Adelaide, 62,546 ; Melb.,
60 000. Junction: Melb., 50,591 f Adelaide, 40,713;
lr ™ y ' o 9l ' Junction North : Melb., 60,000 ; Adelaide,
35,000; Sydney, 20,000. North B.H. : Melb., 98,350'
Sydney, 1550.
* * • *
At least six Melb. brokers bagged <£30,000
apiece last year, principally out of silver—and the public.
* * * * *-
Londonderry, Bendigo, 97 loads for 3860z.—t£2
div., the first for 19 years. At Bendigo the sticker trener-
wlns - No. 1 stope at 1200 ft. carries splendid Ito
“2 ft. stone; in the other two stopes the reef is thicker
but hardly so good. Co., \ohen at a low ebb, secured a
Govt. £lOOO prospecting advance, and it is paying that
sum back at £250 a time. Two months ago shares were
begging at a few pounds, and in the last fortnight they
jumped from £l2 to £2l 10s., at time of writing closing
with eager buyers. Britishers who waived their option
over this property, some time back, will curse their luck
when they hear the news.
oon N , ew , Cl ] ura Railway, from a 6ft. reef at 2878 ft.,
Z 6) loads for 4340 z. Now breaking the fourth first-class
formation met in the mine, the others being from the sur-
ono® t 0 269 ft., between 1000 and 1100 ft., and that at
jj. Since 79 co. has milled 96,101 tons for 68,5820 z.
£7O (MX) 1 " 6 " The original owners whacked
Lady Barkly resumed divs. on St. Valentine’s
,y> and m the two years since has turned out £54,564
gold Has divided £31,800, equal to 265. 6d. a share.
Working ex. s, £19,094; royalty paid, £3670. Last return,
347 tons for 1790 z. 17dwt., is a good lift on the previous 1
week s 350 tons for 12*20z. lOdwt. Another div. on Satur-
day.
* * * *
January divs., ,£77so—previous term,
£8490. February calls, £17,771 Is. Bd., spread over 57
co s. Increase on January, £1257.
* * « *
Ber , ry > Sm eaton (Vic.), has paid her
194th 2s. div. Sad to say, the life of this grand div.-earner
seems to be drawing to a close, all the known payable
ground being nearly exhausted. Question of future
operations to be discussed by the shareholders next week.
* * * *
in A f syndicate is negotiating for the
12,000,000 tons of tailings strewn about Bendigo. Assays
show that the stuff, cyanide-treated, would pan-out hand-
somely. Ballarat to be similarly dealt with.
* * * *
United Hustlers and Redan, 119 tons for 2190 z.
lodwt.; 6d. chv. Welcome relief for shareholders who, in
95, sunk £i 500 m it. Run of stone promises more divs.
*,* * * '
Last fortnight that eccentric ‘ performer, the
Suheman Pasha, headed the list of Ballarat yields, with
161 oz. 14dwts., and the shares are quoted at 3s, The
bulieman s periodical rise is now about due. This stock
rises and falls with the regularity of the seasons
* * « *
Interest just now in the vicinity of Sheep
Station (Vic.) is centred in the Eureka tunnel, where a
small party has been pluckily pelting away in the cast-
iron country for twelve months in quest of the old Eureka
comes U P to the average of 20 years since,
will shift the centre of the present rush
* * * *
M.L.C. “Johnny ” Wallace (Vic.) tells a Melb.
interviewer how, disheartened by non-success, he was on
the point of “chucking” prospecting at Beechworth
when a mate s wife persuaded him to have another try,
and got her husband to finance him a fortnight’s rations.
™luck turned, and to-day he is worth close on a
million. W.A. rushers, he says, are leaving a better
country" than they are'goipg to. Ventures that he owns,
or is the big shareholder in, employ 1500 men. “ Johnny”
is plucky, as witness him putting £24,000 into a Rowdy
Flat (Yackandandah) sluicing claim, which didn’t turn
in a penny last year, but is now paying.
* * * *
One call-paying and heavy-overdraft mining co.
down South pays £l5 a fortnight to its directors ; its
other management ex”s are proportionately heavy.
Shareholders haven’t the heart to buck
* * . *
The Bulletin asks the Mount Lyell people
to explain these confusing reports re the trend of the
pyrites lode wall in the South drive, No. 3 tunnel : “Nov.
16, wall making a sharp turn to the west ” (right). (No
change reported till after the new year.) “Jan. 6, wall
turning to the left ” (south). “ Jan. 18, pyrites sOM making
away to the right.” “ Feb. 10, wall appears to be making
back again to the left.” Little things like this make
people suspicious.
* * * *
People tempted to plunge among the countless
Mt. Lyell pups should desist until they have visited the
Mount itself and travelled thence per boot to the particu-
lar pup whispered into their ear by the voice of the
charmer. To do this is calculated to make a man careful.
Volunteer, Lefroy, is the best average show in
Tas. Millings to date : 10,298 tons for 27,2430 z. sdwt., or
2oz. 12dwt. 21gr. per ton. Stone raised last half kept well
over 20z.—1715 tons for 36970 z. 7dwt. Divs, £8125 ; total,
£60,625. Another co. has £7571 4s. Bd. in hand. Recent
strike in No. 7 level west averages Ift. thick, and looks
from 14 to 2oz. stone. Other parts promise to keep their
end well up this term.
* * * *
Curtin and Davis, Dundas : Sellers, 7s. Two
months back, buyers, lCs. Slump due to Tas. holdersun-
loading, wherefore a certain Queen-st. (Melb.) silver trio
are chewing bitterly. Their heavy share swag for recon-
structing the co. cannot be dealt in yet, the original direc-
tors having stipulated a certain time in making terms,
and the Tas. people took advantage of the stock’s intro-
duction to M -lb. ’Change to scoop the market. In share-
dealing the j. people are as cute as they make ’em.
By the way, amalgamation with the C. and D. Exten-
ded—vetoed some time ago by several big shareholders—
will probably’be fixed up shortly.
* * * *
The large damp hand of British capital is falling
heavily on Reefton (M.L.). A British syndicate is negoti-
ating for the purchase of the Keep-it-Dark, No. 2 Keep-it-
Dark, Welcome, Globe, Wealth of Nations, Energetic and
Progress mines, and if this arrangement is completed—
which seems almost certain—the Big River will be almost
the only important mine at Reefton which hasn’t been
swallowed up by the all-devouring J. Bull.
* * * *
Cyanide is asserting itself at Croydon more than
on any other Australian field. Last year it increased the
gold output by nearly 30%. Last month one co. handled
2200 tons of tailings. Cost’ of treatment, including royalty,
6s. 6d.; profit, 18s. 6d. per ton. At one time Croydon
ore was thought too coppery for cyanide, but practice has
shown it remarkably well adapted.
♦ * » »
Dear Bulletin, —The artificial manufacture of
pearls, i.e., designs in pearl, is an old dodge, centuries
old, and was played on the Catholic missionaries not
many years after their first visit to the East. The'Malays
used to produce crosses and virgins to order, to the
amazement of the Christians, who regarded them as indi-
cations of the Creator's approval of the missions. But
the “man from the Bahamas” overlooks the time re-
quired for the growth. It will take at least three years,
and, as the bivalves frequently shift their grounds, pad-
dogking them is necessary to success.—Shark’s Bay,
W.A.
* * * *
A prospector at Swift’s Creek (Vic.) had a battle
with a mountain cat at the bottom of his shaft recently.
When he let himself down the rope he found the beast
waiting, and after much trouble transfixed it with a pick.
A real “ Wild Cat ” item. The prospector thinks badly of
the omen.
* * * *
Now that land and income taxes have been
established in N.S.W., any trade-protection society which
can’t pretty accurately size a man up will be much behind
the times. Most other Govt, departments “leak” a lot,
anyhow.


Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION.
M'HIS Zotion cures Swelling and Sandy Might,
' Inflamed Eyes and Zids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to,those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the Sight. By post, 3s, per bottle.
Solely by H. A. ItOSE, Chemist,
\3l GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 496. Telephone No. 496
PEATE & HARCOURT,
THE PREMIER GROCERY ESTABLISHMENT OF AUSTRALIA
By Special Appointment,
Purveyors to
y**
-*l-
H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh,
and
His Excellency the Governor.
GROCERS, WINE MERCHANTS <&, ITALIAN WAREHOUSEMEN.
BEST OF GOODS AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
255 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
X
SOFT CANVAS SHIRTS
FOR SrA LION WEAR. Unshrinkable
and almost Indestructible. p r ; ee _ ea( . h
Sample Shirt Delivered Free to airy part oi
Queensiandon rece,pt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6
28/6 per Half-Dozen. To measure—ln ordering
state height, size of collar and chest measure
Write for Patterns.
I*l*liOS., Brisbane,
V
A
SHAVING MADE
A PLEASURE by Using
& I’INAUD
Shaving
Cream.
Society
CAMEO
A recent wedding, when a youth of
23 escorted to the canopy a wealthy bride of 55,
has occasioned much speculation as to the manner
in which the terms of the damsel’s late father’s
will are to be carried out. Said will decrees, among
other strange injunctions, that the two surviving
daughters are to share each other’s company
always. The old man thought they were confirmed
old maids, but Cupid is a sad wag sometimes.
* * * *
A Tasmanian paper hears that Lord
Brassey has bestowed an annuity on Mrs. Fancy,
a Tas. widow who lives on the roadside near the
now historic Don Hill. When touring the N.W.
coast of the island one of the Brassey party —Mrs.
Freeman Thomas —fell off her bicycle, damaging
the permanent way and tearing her uniform.
Mrs. Fancy was on hand with needle and thread
and sticking-plaster to mend the lady. Every old
woman who lives near a country road affected by
touring cyclists from Guvmentouse will now forth-
with procure repairing material and ait on a stone-
heap awaiting windfalls in the shape of damaged
pedallers.
* * * *
The Brasseys and suite are a compact
family party, and make few personal friends.
SANS CASH.
The Minister for the Interior ignores a deputation.
There is not likely to be a regular Govt. House
gang this time, as there was under the Hopetoun
regime. The party go round on their bicycles
and H.E. talks in a fatherly way to anybody
and everybody, but their visits and invitations
are mostly official. To aggravate the annoyance
of the “Toorak push,” Lady Brassey has shown a
distinct preference for the daughter of the family
of a wealthy retired draper.
* * * *
The proceedings of the Lormer Magisterial
Investigation Board at Melbourne suggest many
tilings. What would be the effect of a similar
enquiry in Sydney? Many rumors are in every-
one’s mouth as to the conduct of certain magis-
trates.
* * * *
Despite many threats of exposure, Mel-
bourne jury-squarers are still active as ever.
Within the last two months a couple of glaring
instances have been brought under authoritative
notice, but the state of the law is alleged to make
proceedings difficult.
* * * *
Rapiport, J.P., gave the Lormer Board
(as Melb. journals seem to call it) a graphic
description of his interview with detective O’Don-
nell, at the time of Mrs. R.’s arrest on a charge of
stealing a watch and chain. O’Donnell, according
to this, said, “So help me God, and as I know
you’re a Mason, and by the Masonic law, I did
not know she was your wife.” Rapiport, in his
graphic description, afterwards said to O’Donnell,
“ You’re a lying scoundrel; you took a false oath,
a very solemn (Masonic) oath, that you did not
know it was my wife when you arrested her.” The
solemn oath aforesaid was registered in 1888.
O’Donnell gave a decidedly different story of his
conversation with Rapiport, and also stated that
he wasn’t a Mason previous to 1894.
* * * *
The saying used to be that no monetary
case could come before the Melb. bench sans a
Hebrew on it.
* * * *
The Westralian “ electric ” telegraph
again. A Melb. man wired from Albany to Fitz-
Gibbonville, announcing his home-coming per
next mail. He arrived before his wire, completed
his business, and, after a fortnight’s stay, returned
West. When he left Melb. his Westralian mes-
sage had not arrived. On reaching Albany, for
curiosity he dropped in at the telegraph-office to
enquire re the telegram and get his money back if
possible. “ When did you deposit it ? ” He gave
day and date. “Five weeks ago,” said the clerk ;
“ oh, you can’t stop it now —it must be at least half
way there by this time ! ”
* * * *
It is explained that the reason why those
Westralian messages don’t get through is that the
white ants, with which the country absolutely
swarms, eat them as fast as they come along the
wires.
* * * *
You sometimes see more champagne than
water in Coolgardie. The laying of a foundation-
stone one recent afternoon “fizzled” itself into
.£3OO.
At Purakanui,
near Dunedin (M.L.),
the railway is built
in a spidery fashion
along the face of a
cliff overhanging the
sea. The rock rises
in a wall on one side,
and on the other you
can look out of the
carriage-window and
see the deep blue
water 150 or 200 feet
below. The line was
carried round this
way in the old days
instead of by an easier
and shorter road in-
land, because sundry
influential persons
held ground in the
vicinity. The other
day, a train was nego-
tiating this weird
jumping-off place
when engine No. 2
got off the rails and
jolted along the ex-
treme edge of the pre-
cipice. The other
engine and carriages
somehow remained
on the line, so the
whole affair didn’t go
overboard, as might
reasonably have been
expected. Then the
passengers got out,
and found that a bit
of the cliff had fallen
away there, and some
intelligent official had
mended the damage
with a barrow-load
of loose stones, and,
when the situation
had time to soak in,
they lifted up their
voices in praise of the
grand old pioneers
who did so much for
this great country.
* *
Honesty is the
best fallacy.
The billiard-room more than pays the rent
of a big Coolgardie pub., said pub. frequently re-
turning £2OO of bar gold a-day.
Chalmers Church, Melbourne, is in a
dilemma with <£60,000 of property, but no revenue
to pay the meenister’s salary. The kirk dates
back to the fifties, when Dr. Cairns refused to let
in a kist o’ whustles. At that time there was
plenty of revenue, though the property was worth
nothing in particular. R.C. Archbishop Carr
(the situation is indeed humorous) casts covetous
eyes on the property now, and is willing to go as
far as <£60,000. The Cathedral also wants to
£ather in the little bit of land that belongs to the
lutherans, and it keeps a patient eye on the other
handy block with the somnolent Unitarian church
on it.
* * ♦ •
Apropos the diseased-meat sellers’ prosecu-
tions in Sydney, is there any effective examination
or Covt. inspection of the animals “ put through ”
at the “ boiling-downs ”-cwm-piggeries ? The pig
is a beast peculiarly susceptible to disease; and
some curious stories have been 1 old concerning
the state of health of some of the animals dealt
with at country works, which are situated, m so™ 6
cases, 50 miles or more from the office of the
nearest inspector of stock.
* * * *
The far reaching’ influence of the Dean
case ' At a Sydney folice court last week, during
the heating of an y aLult case between husband
and wife, the former admitted that he had not
THE LOST WOMAN.
MR. NEW WOMAN (who has been holding forth on women): “And don't let them see you want
them too much; keep them always a little in doubt, and you’re all right. That’s
how I won my wife."
MRS. NEW WOMAN: “ You didn't win me—I lost myself."
Partaken of a meal which his wife had cooked for
months, as he suspected she would put poison in
his tea !
* * * *
A Melb. citizen was found dead in the
street the other Sunday, under circumstances
which gave more or less pleasure to all save the
corpse and his friends. Deceased was one of a
“ push ” engaged in stoushing any unprotected
persons who came along. The “ push ” seems to
have had a penknife concealed on its joint and
several person, and in the course of much pro-
miscuous stoushing and stabbing, the 1 ’ade of this
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
TELEMAGHUS : "But Jove! don't you call that a perfect form ?"
MENTOR : “ I don't think she has trim ancles.”
T.: "How do you know? Have you ever seen 'em?"
M.: “No; I base my opinion on that.”
beneficent weapon got directed by Providence
mto the beery heart of a principal young black-
guard. Nobody seems to know or care much
about the mystery. Enough that the penknife
did its duty.
* * * *
The R.C. Church may be expected to
presently w-arn its daughters against the danger
of riding a bike. °
* * * *
Gilbert Smith, the now unwilling witness
m the Melb. magistracy scandal, promises to be-
come interesting. His departure for Perth, before
the Enquiry Board had begun to sit, was as un-
satisfactory as his subsequent arrest and return to
Melbourne on a weak charge of perjury. The
s tor yof that per jury seems a suitable sub-
ject for another enquiry. „
. . . ~ c ,
Little is said of the many unfortunate
swagmen who have lately met awful deaths in the
N.S.W. bush. News of bodies or swags found
comes into the townships almost daily, and many
old identities on the Western tracks are missing,
In a station store on the Paroo there lie seven
swags found ownerless on the run.
A “ whitewashed” sepulchre—Melbourne.
* * * *
Smart London club-men now wear frilled
evening shirts, and velvet collars on their evening
suits.
Out on the road to
the Ninety-Mile, Cool-
gardie, a pathetic sight is
the rude grave on which
is laid a small Testa-
ment, held in position
by a stone. There is the
same feeling in miners
as in bushmen and stock-
men— they always look
after the graves of those
who have fallen on the
way.
C.M.G. : The Bul-
letin in a recent issue
heaped derision upon
Westralia because of the
existence of a venerable
law giving it into the
power of a common cop.
to waylay a citizen found
at large after 10 p.m.,
and ask if he is bond or
free, and what he means
by keeping such unholy
hours, anyhow. How
about Vic. ? A fortnight
back a South Melbourne
policeman met a woman
walking along the street
after midnight, and
promptly ran her in for
being abroad contrary to
custom and usage.
There was nothing fur-
ther against the woman,
and she gave a reasonable
excuse for not being
peacefully in bed at 1
a.m., so the Bench
allowed her “the bene-
fit of the doubt.” Ap-
parently woman’s rights
are. still judiciously
limited to “good ” hours
down South.
„ r\ ..
At Y coastal railway-station an amusing
® c ®“ e occ u rr ed the other day. A young man who
13 e ,P ec * Wlt * l a girl of 16 was awaiting the train,
-rapa, however, arrived before the locomotive and
bellowed: “Give me back my daughter!” To
<Tt • dutiful damosel promptly responded:
«• • m t you , r darter—you old brute ! ” When the
H ain arrived young Lochinvar sprang into a car-
riage and tried to haul the girl in with him, but
P ate f’ utmost presence of mind, grabbed
her by the ankles—a wild and fearsome tug-of-
waG ensu mg, with occasional flashes of scarlet
P ettlc p a t and white embroidery to delight the
enraptured spectators. Finally, the combatants
were left fighting it out at the station, and the
passengers decided that for once the stopping
THE FATE OF FATE.
Melb.
The rise and the fate of man,
Of universe, love and hate,
Innumerous seers relate;
But where is the pundit can
Inform us when fate began,
And what is the fate of Fate !
DANTON.
MELBOURNE SEWERAGE.
They tell us Melbourne by-and-bye
Will be well-drained, and so ’twould seem;
But who’ll invent and who apply
The needful moral-sewage scheme ?


AT PER DOZEN.
The most important point for the consideration
of all persons who desire to possess photographs
of those nearest and dearest to them is with regard
to permanence rather than price. No photograph
that will turn yellow, break out in spots, or vanish
into nothingness within a few weeks can have its
value expressed in figures. When delivered, it
may shine like the enamelled mystery on a soap-
box, but the seeds of disease are there, and must
come to the surface. This may be regarded as
one of the certainties of cheap photography at per
dozen. _ _ _
CHARLEMONT &. CO.,
OF 492 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
make a SPECIALTY of PERMANENT WORK,
of ARTISTIC MERIT and SKILFUL I lls ISII,
and invite you with confidence to inspect then
Showrooms.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- pel • Half-dozen, free by pout throuyhont
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Norms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
JAMES KIDMAN.
What a Difference the FREETRADE TARIFF has made to the BREAKFAST TABLEJ
JUST FANCY!
YOU CAN PROCURE AT JAMES KIDMAN’S
Company’s I.C. Sugar, 2d. per lb.
Gold Medal Milk, od. per tin.
Kippered Herrings, 7d. per tin.
121 b. Rice for Is. 9d.
3 tins Skeena River Salmon for Is. 9d.
3 packets Cornflour for 9d.
101 b. Adelaide Flour for Is., Patent Roller (of course the
previous duty of £1 per ton has been taken off).
Sydney Soap and Candle Company’s Sperm Candles,
full weights, sd. per lb. In this instance, the jd.
per lb. duty has disappeared.
Lea and Perrin’s Sauce, IOJd. per bottle.
121 b. Sago, Is. 6d,; 121 b. Barley, Is. 6d.; 161 b. Soda, Bd.
C. and Blackwell’s Lncca Oil, quarts, Is. 9d. bottle.
Foster’s quart Ale, Bs. lid. ; M‘Ewan’s Ale, quarts,
9s. sd. ; Jeffrey’s quart Ale, 6s. 9d.; Toohey’s Ale,
4s. 9d. ; Bulldog Stout, 9s. 7d. ; Burke’s or Beaver
Stout, Bs. lid.; Hennessy’s *** Brandy, 6s. per
bottle; Usher’s Special Reserve Whisky, 3s. 9d, ;
Brown’s 4-Crown Whisky, 3s. 6d.
NAMDIK SEMAJ, Oxford Street, and George and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
time at a Q. country station was disgustingly
short and unreasonable.
* * * *
Melbourne “sassiety” is stumped for
sensations. A local chronicle of small beer
devotes a “stick,” or so, to Mrs. So-and-so’s
“merry-go-round party,” at St. Kilda. The see-
saw party comes next. And, by the way, here is
a suggestive little merry-go-round rhyme :
A. miserably futile person made three
attempts at suicide in one day recently at
Waverley (Sydney). First of all he set himself
on fire, but he didn’t burn well, possibly owing to
the accumulation of ash, or the dampness of the
fuel, or want of ventilation, or his generally-
incombustible nature —anyhow, he speedily went
out. Then he stabbed himself with a knife, but
not knowing the locality of his own vitals
nothing in particular came of it. Finally, he
threw himself into the sea, and at this stage the
police grew tired of his feeble proceedings and re-
moved him to tho hospital in custody. A man who
couldn’t kill himself once in three tries deserved
nothing better.
* * * *
He always retained a certain sense of the
decencies of life, did Jones. That, however, was
not his real name (he was an educated Englishman
“of exceedingly-good family ”), but it was the
name, under, over, by or through which he was
hanged. On the morning of the butchery,
three of them stood on the scaffold con-
demned to death for a particularly
brutal murder in company. The second
man was a Chinese, and the third an
ordinary average murderer. In his last
hour Jones sent for sheriff Ellis. “I
want you,” he said, “to grant me one
last favor, will you, sheriff ? ” “I will
if I can, Jones, what is it?’ “Don’t
hang me next to that —— Chow ; ” and Ellis,
when telling this tale, always adds as the
point of the story, “ And, by gad, I kept my
promise.”
• * * *
When a husband gets damages from a
financial company, as happened the other day,
for loss of conjugal comforts through partial
destruction of his wife by the negligence of the
company aforesaid, what ought he to do with the
money? Just think hard over it and reply at
leisure.
* * * *
There is now but one Melb. establishment
wherein the menials wear plush and powder
(Guvermentouse excepted). These gorgeous
persons serve the famdy of an ex-tradesman
and had each to be imported from ’Ome,
as Australian servants jibbed at wear-
ing satin smalls and floured top-knots.
* * * *
Payable dirt—the up-to-date novel.
• * * *
When the great flood came down the
Fitzroy River (Q.), the other day, the <£54,000
bridge, the pride and joy of Rockhampton, began
to groan horribly in the middle with the pressure
of the waters, and to totter in a most alarming
fashion. Then the Mayor and Corporation, or the
Divisional Board, or some other local authority,
rose to the occasion as great minds always do at a
crisis. It came down with a long rope, and tied
one end to the bridge and the other to a stump on
the bank. To all intents and purposes it might
as well have tied a runaway ironclad to an
envelope, or moored a hurricane to twopence, but
anyhow it had demonstrated the advantages of
Local Government and it seemed quite contented.
Mrs . BROUGH, as “The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith.”—The casting of the Bible
into the stove.
Photo, by Falk.
Apropos the terrible ferry accident at
Brisbane, The Bulletin wonders how many
“ disappearances ” there will be from that city.
There are at least two people in Sydney who were
reported missing in London after the Princess
Alice disaster.
Beyond a few life-belts, what means of pre-
HE WAS A CAREFUL MAN!
SOLOMON M'YID: “ Come in out of that,
Thammy, or you’ll yet thunthtroke on the
nothe.”
venting a repetition of the Brisbane disaster do
the Sydney Harbour ferry-boats possess ? Were
a Manly-bound boat to upset (and a heavy sea
running through the Heads has more than once
shown anxious passengers the possibility of such a
mishap), how many lives would be saved? The
lesson taught by the Princess Alice affair, in the
Thames, has been badly learnt.
Three bridges—each in its time the only bridge
connection between North and South Brisbane —
have been rendered unsafe for traffic by floods ;
two have been swept away altogether. Had the
Victoria Bridge not shown signs of collapse, the
Pearl ferry-boat would not have been daring that
flood. At all cost, at all trouble of overcoming
engineering difficulties, there must be a high-level
bridge.
* * * #
Many of the Westralian postal officials
deal in stamps, and strange whispers float about
Perth from time to time re alleged mysterious
losses from old-time stocks in the P.O. vaultr.
According to the Fremantle Messenger, on Nov.
4 last the Perth post-office suddenly discovered
that it was short of halfpenny stamps. As the
total sale of these stamps at Perth is only about
£2 worth per week, a few might easily have
been borrowed from another office, pending arrival
of a daily-expected supply from England. The
postal officials, however, ordered an issue of £5O
worth of old brown threepenny stamps, surcharged
as worth a halfpenny. The surcharge was to be
printed in red ink across the stamp, but, when 90
had been printed, it was found that red didn’t
show well on brown, so the remainder were printed
in green. This made the first 90 stamps unique ;
they were nearly all bought up by one P.O. official,
and are now worth about 30s. each. The remainder
were also snapped up by dealers, and, the new
supply of proper halfpennies coming to hand, the
makeshifts were withdrawn. One very big official-
dealer didn’t notice the value of the unique 90 at
first, and when he subsequently tried to get the
purchaser to let him into the spec, that heartless
underling refused.
*****
Theorised by Prof. Ray Lankester, in
Melb. Argus, that snakes are immunised against
snake-poison by absorption of poison from their
own glands. At first sight, this seems likely,
until it is remembered that only some snakes are
venomous. But the fact remains that non-venomous
snakes are also immune, as are also said to be
some lizards. This knocks Lankester’s notion
kite-high.
* « * »
The Adelaide Hospital Board, which has
been giving the Kingston Ministry so much
trouble, ceases to exist on Saturday, Feb. 29, and
few of its members will be re-appointed. Dr.
Way, the Premier’s chief antagonist, has already
been re-elected by the University, which he repre-
sents on the Board, but nearly all the other mem-
bers are nominated by the Cabinet.
*****
Bishop G-oe has brought three-fourths of
his clergy down on him by appointing a chubby
collegian to the snug little Goshen of Balwyn,
about the sweetest outlying Melb. suburb Kew
way. The fact is that devotion to useful duty is
the surest bar to preferment. Bush toil renders
the clergyman ‘ 1 unpresentable,” as the courtly
word is. Failing an importation from England,
the young ladies of the congregation prefer a hot
loaf from the seminary.
* * * *
Dr. Clubbe reports that, by the anti-toxin
serum treatment, the mortality from diphtheria at
Sydney Children’s Hospital was last year reduced
by about 50 per cent. Anti-toxin the doctor
regards as one of the greatest of all medical
triumphs.
* * * *
Eight hundred Sydney unemployed were
last week supplied gratuitously, by a local manu-
facturer, with a large bottle of ink apiece.
Each man will now be able to fully state, in
writing, all his reasons for committing suicide.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Society of (professional)
Artists will evidently prevail, in the long run,
over its deadly enemy, the (old and more-or-less
amateur) N.S.W. Art Society. Minister Garrard,
when the additions to the National Gallery are
completed, “ will consider the question of re-
organising the State-subsidised classes for the
teaching of art.” In a word, the professional
artists’ scheme for the withdrawal from the Art
Society classes of the =£soo State subvention and
the institution of classes at the National Gallery
itself (cl la Melbourne) will probably come off.
THE LAY OF THE ROUNDABOUT.
The merry-go-round, or roundabout,
Was an innocent thing of yore,
When it did not dip like a frisky ship
Approaching a shingled shore ;
But tne merry-go-round of modern time
Is a wicked, seductive whirl,
Which many suspect of a strange effect
On the merry Australian girl.
Up and down the “ roundy ” goes,
And ladies muster thick
To take their turns. One might suppose
’Twould turn the darlings sick ;
But the far-off look in their dreamy eyes
Admits of never a doubt—
’Tis the look of the damsel, not too wise,
Expressing the love she can’t disguise
From a wooer who wins her heart with liej—
As they ride on the roundabout —
bout, bout—
The giddy old roundabout.
It comes along to a country town,
And when it has passed away
The father of sins stands chafing his fins—
The devil there is to pay.
For Faust has fished for his Marguerite
As an angler fishes for trout,
And the bait which caught that maid distraught
Was a fly on the roundabout.
Up and down the “ roundy ” goes,
Nor seems to threaten harm ;
Yet virtue’s broken signs disclose
The danger of its charm ;
And the heartless Phyllis, so cold and vain,
Who formerly used to flout
The passionate prayers of her faithful swain
Shows sudden regret for her past disdain,
And weeps on his bosom, like tailing rain,
After trying the roundabout —
bout, bout—
The giddy old roundabout.
Wherever it works its secret spell
The wonderful tale is told—
Of Tottie, once shy, now winking her eye
In a manner extremely bold ;
And many a pale young Christian man,
As pure as an oyster pearl,
Gets morally wrecked through this strange effect
On his Sunday-school teacher girl.
Up and down the “ roundy ” goes,
It drives a roaring trade :
An amorous breeze it wildly blows
For matron, as for maid.
The monarch who reigns in a sultry clime
Is luring the ladies out;
O, this merry-go-wrong of modern time
Is a sort of a blissful social crime,
Which is why we sing, in a rorty rhyme,
Beware of the roundabout—
bout, bout—
The giddy old roundabout.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Ben. F. (Orange): Letter at F.O M.V.C. :
ooine merit; rather domestic for B Carl V. : Not
quite up T.A.B. (M.L.) : Capacity seems to conceit in
proportion of Falstaff’s bread to sack Zelia : Kather
good and rather “strong.” You see, so many people
want to write about “the maiden’s knell.” M.G. :
“Sum” old fancy stiffly treated . Womerah : Verse
young; not unpromising. May possibly use “ Billy;”
but, as you’re a beginner, please try and lift the reproach
of the gruesome from this paper's shoulders llal. M. :
Dying swagman -452 F.C.K. : There’s any amount of
humor in a Imsh school, but you don't dig it out Im-
pulse : Hood yarn, poor handling. No hints possible
beyond this : Read and write continually Cx 8 :
Possibly “ Chow ;” verse bad E.YV.B. : Ideas too com-
plicated for illustration Dafiodell : You may know
round O from crooked S, but that’s as far as you’ve got'in
the alphabet of fiction ..J.D.W. : Your mind was
apparently born on a dunghi.l J.F.D. : Fair idea ;
commonplace expression. .Suppose you throw it into
regular sonnet-form Saran : o what a tangled web you
weave! Kurilla: The “Royal Nonesuch” type of
swindle-yarn turns up regularly and goes down swiftly
Wyben : Couldn’t do it without portraits, and little
general interest then R.11.W. : Verse quite unsuitable.
Bluegum : Not up ; but we’re glad to see blank verse.
On second thoughts we din t know if we are glad
Amen : Were it noi for the Blessed Royal Family,
most of the ’Ome society and illustrated papers would die
of dry rot. About 50 per cent, of the Hinglish press
depends upon paragraphs setting out the accomplishments
of the Queen and her relatives Van D. : Bill-of-
fare item unprintable Mabel : “ Hiroki” very long
Echo: “Mended” stories are generally not much good.
If you don’t like a story in its original shape, you some-
how always like it still less alter it’s cobbled Wineber :
Some piquancy ; but girly-girly theme too old and fami-
liar David W. (M.L.): “Mother” too dreary; wants
shorter, more energetic treatment Diamond : Appa-
rently you invent your rhymes as you go - e.g
“ Sing of the gladness of morning’s gallop
Over the downs while we care not a dallop.” HI
Te Kaha : Can’t use L.W.H. (Lav.): Unsuitable
for B H.A.C. (Melb.): Nothing poetical in your list of
dingoes, moons, and ’possums VV.C. (Brisb.): Insuffer-
ably tedious H.W.r'. (Ad.) : Thanks, but we don’t care
to extend discussion just now H.M. : “Posterity”
thought isn t new, and expression isn’t worthy
W.G.P. : Your aphorism : To be successful deceive others ;
to be happy deceive yourself. But is it yours?
Linden : Rather vague and feeble Sandy : Better con-
tinue to “feel a bit small.” Gilbert: Amiably crude.
Lucerne: Over the edge Rackarock : “Sykes”
has some gleams. Sc. : “ Commissioner.” That sort of
Ikey Mo, if asked by a client to back a horse, does so—
with himself. If it wins, he, as commissioner, gets the
cash—from himself. If it loses he pays the layer—him-
self- and he’s so considerate that in neither case does he
charge anything for his trouble C.C.M'A. : Infant pro-
digies are out of our line. Try some nice, domesticated
little paper Elio: The Westralian post and telegraph
officials are the hardest-worked and poorest-paid in Aus-
tralia A. A. : On the contrary, tenement-house medical
statistics show that the mortality in the garret-dwellers
is much greater than among the cellar-dwellers ; also,
that the death-rate rises as you rise from storey to storey.
This is due to (1) extra strain in stair-climbing ; (2) bad-
ness of air through heating and breathing it on lower
floors ; (3) greater extremes of temperature owing to
nearness to roof H. J. (L.): If you go on like that you’ll
find yourself in gaol for false pretences. As a matter of
fact, your mere request for payment under the circum-
stances constitutes an attempt to obtain money by false
pretences Bruin : Write your wooden-legged verses in
her album -if she’ll let you. And if she does let you, then
don t marry her. To be tied to a woman so utterly
destitute of literary judgment would be Sheol
A.H.L. : No, thanks Tub : Once only has the Vic. Leg.
Council been in touch with Democratic sentiment, viz.,
on the introduction of the Mallee Bill, when Wallace de-
clared that the land belonged to the people, and should
not be sold ; when Ham said the granting of freeholds
was altogether a mistake ; when Sachse said he protested
against the giving away of Crown lands ; and when Sar-
good said he did not believe in the shibboleth of freehold.
P. E. C., (Melb.): Old as grandfather’s clock Quartz-
crusher : Discussion closed Bobbie D.: Maupassant did
it long ago ; only he made the portrait that of the young
priest who attended her in her dying hour Sackstay :
Unsuitable for illus Anon : Nothing in the parody.
O.K.W.A. : Sorry we haven’t any opinion of the
drawing W.D.R. : Sum total —Chow vegetable-man
said conductor was “ blanky Ilishman.” Taffy: Re-
ceived D.H.S. : He had to wait for his steak while they
caught the blanky bullock. Last time we heard that story
the same man was waiting till they caught the blanky
sheep. Time before that it was the blanky duck. Last
time but eighteen he was waiting till the hen laid the
blanky fresh egg. They were all “blanky.” E.T.
(Waratah) : It would probably lose more revenue than it
would gain. People who can scrape up the money for
one fare when they want it often can’t pay a lot of fares
in advance. They don’t travel more, not so much
because of the railway-fares—which are very low, but
because they haven’t time or can't stand hotel and
other casual ex’s. Cheap-excursion trains are crowded
because they mostly run on holidays; run them every
day and they would be little better than the rest.
Jay Kay : Weak fish-yarn Constant reader :
You want us to say that the man you object to is
“as ignorant as a tadpole.” And you haven’t even the
pluck to put your own name to the statement
W.G. (Port Pirie): Prefer new verse —not reprint The
Hermit: Thanks Tickled : Will probably use J.D. :
Your Federation scheme looks clumsy and unworkable.
D.O. (River Murray): Yes, as he says, every-
thing is “ satisfactory ” —except that there aren’t enough
profits, and the old assets are in rather a bad way. Other-
wise, everything is “satisfactory.” T.F.P. : It seems
by your letter you did commit that “ nameless crime in
Ireland.” If so, we don’t want to cultivate your acquaint-
ance Rackarock: Not new, nor bright, nor interesting
Old Hardface : But then, you see. Protection says
absolutely nothing about anybody paying extra for his
hat P.S.O. (Charleville): Poem like an infant bull-pup
crying in the night Phil. : Rugged and vigorous. Look
at it:
Wen the travelers have got empty Bag,
And the squator not seenen his Bugy or drag,
And the Jackroos and ovrseers are in Rags—
Oh for the Banks.
W.8.8. (Sydney): Thanks R.C. (Sydney): Thanks
also Thomas Craigh : Jingle hardly up. Moral good.
Always support the man with an axe to grind, provided
it’s a good axe used for a good purpose. The man with no
axe to grind is too often a harmless nonentity L.
Williams : The only merit about Foundation Day is that
we celebrate the fact that we are a lot better than our
ancestors —or think we are. In other words, we whoop
because our ancestors were a bad lot so as to feel that we
are better than might reasonably be expected considering
the original material Top Bingara : Item about soiled
underclothing declined L.B. (Carcoar): You propose
to reduce railway rates so as to cover working expenses
only, and pay interest out of a “proximity tax’’varying
from half-a-farthing to Id. in the £1 on unimproved land
values near railway lines—with certain exceptions. The
interest to be paid on construction money in N.S. W. is over
£1,200,000 a year, and your “proximity tax” would yield
about £BO,OOO at the very outside. Why don’t you learn
your subject ?


SAPHO SOAP .
REMOVES ALL WRINKLES AND IMPURITIES OF THE SKIN.
PLAIN woman made ATTRACTIVE. PRETTY WOMAN
made bewitching.
its Constant Use—
SAPIIO perfume
fob the H ANDKTCRCHIEF
COMPLETES THE
TOILETTE.
The development of the rabbit. Just saw
one (writes a Bulletin correspondent) clear a 4ft.
fence with cat’s ease.
Our Fashion Book, containing 32 of the latest
styles for AUTUMN and WINTER SEASONS
1896, will be ready for free distribution shortly’
Please send applications for same early. Hordern
Brothers 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only)
Sydney.* J "
IN EVERY REFINED HOME.
“ Drifting Away,” by F. A. Packer, with violin
obligato ; words by Di Samuell. “I Was Dream-
£ g ’ , , by „ A- tt W ' t , The gem of “Ma Mie
Rosette. H. J Samuell, Publisher, Box 1077
G.P.0., Sydney.*
t rmß,n?° HELL-
«OLAN d for Pretty Stamps. We
in r he . S j t T? f - 14, unused > for Is. Gil.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
aB i an P ost free, and
Freci Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.),
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
MATRIMONY.
TF you wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult
us. Our varied and extensive clientele enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stations of life. Local
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecy. All communications confidential. Information
sent free to bona-fide applications. Write for pamphlet
and rules.
Weldon's Matrimonial Association.
67 PHILLIPS STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next Hotel Metropole).
[?]
Sydney, February 18, 1896.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The maiden reception given by the brand-new
Mayor and Lady Mayoress of Sydney (Mr. and
Mrs. I. E. Ives) eventuated at Sydney Town Hall
on 12th inst., and attracted the usual job-lot of
people in their Sunday clothes, performing the
game greedy antics round the tea-tables. The
hall was handsomely decorated with flags and
palms, and a short classic programme on the organ
lent a subdued air of culchaw to the proceedings.
There is a great deal of comfort to be derived from
merely reading the names of Haydn (not Heydon),
Mozart and Handel on your programme ; it gives
an especially gratifying sensation to persons whose
musical education is just abreast of ‘ ‘ Salute my
bicycle ” to find, on getting home, that they have
aotually lived through eight classical bits without
turning a hair.
The Mayoralties just arrived—including two
mature daughters and a son—presented a more
grown-up appearance than their predecessors in
office. The new Mayoress is a lady of medium
height with an apparently excellent temper and a
somewhat rococo taste in dress. tier reoeption-
gear was a weirdly-cut black silk trimmed
with white silk covered with black net. A
steel-grey and pink bonnet with silver fix-
ings, a cameo brooch the size of an ice-plate,
white gloves which had burst in the pumphandling
process, a small bouquet and a black fan completed
an ensemble which was enough to get Madame s
dressmaker the unqualified sack. By the way, no
neophyte at receiving folks should juggle with a
bouquet and a fan if she wants to look quite
equal to the physical pressure of the occasion.
Besides, many a visitor to the reception under dis-
cussion, who is under the impression she shook the
new City Mother, really played the game of grab
with a couple of fan-sticks. I am told that the
new Mayoress is not a speech-maker, and so pre-
sents the usual spectacle at women’s oommittee-
meetings of a president who doesn’t like the sound
of her own Voioe. Mayor Ives reminds me of
John See gone to seed. He is an unaccustomed-
looking potentate who yawned drearily more than
once during the ceremonies and sported his
Mayoral robes as if they had been hung on him
to dry.
A large attendance toed the civic scratch, and
the dressing on the whole was Februaryish—the
weary last robes of summer. An English visitor
out the most notioable figure. She hadn’t “pil-
lows sewn into her arm-holes,” but wore plain,
close-fitting sleeves, with a cape expressing the
natural outline of her shoulders. Also, her Skirt
wasn’t five yards round about, and altogether her
outline was diametrically opposed to what we have
been let to consider the snip—yet she looked
modish. An ex-mayoress (whose smile at her suc-
cessor was a work of art) was fittingly attired in
green ; but I never saw such an ill-gowned crowd,
taking it all in all. Its component parts mostly
achieved the high sartorial level of the back-row
of guests in grand opera. But the mayoral recep-
tions are a great social mystery. In the papers
next day you see the names of all the. world and
his wife as being present, and yet few of these big
funs are visible in portly flesh during the show.
don’t know how you explain it. Perhaps Mrs.
de Darling Point lets her bonnet and mantle
descend on her housemaid, whom she sends mas-
querading along with her card-ease ?It would be
about on a par with the approved fashionable
trick of sending your empty carriage after corpses
of no particular consei uence.
I thought it rather a reflection on the real signi-
ficance of civic functions that an enterprising tea
firm should have waylaid the guests on the steps
of the Town Hall and given them printed invita-
tions to a cup of tannin in an adjacent shop. It
looked as if they had taken the measure of the
majority, anyhow. Also, it had a weird appear-
ance of one free drink deserving another.
The latest story g©mg the rounds evolves from
a recent fashionable sale of sticks in the home of a
well-known golden-haired belle, which sale has
harrowed the most sacred feelings of more than
one man about town who happened to run his eye
over the catalogue. For down on the list of
household effects were a number of love-gifts the
chappies aforesaid had given to the damsel herein-
before alluded to, who had heartlessly thrown them
all under the hammer to go for whatever they’d
fetch—souvenirs from johnnies near at hand and
mementoes from youths at a distance all sharing
the same fate. Charming nineteenth-century
tableau ! But how a girl like that must gnash her
pearly teeth when Strephon weighs in with a
lovely but perishable bouquet, which has no after-
value ! This is a good tip for the johnnies who
want to win a society grrl—always make your
enslaver presents which will appeal to a pawn-
broker by and by.
Apropos Johnniedom, this is the latest smartism
which bears the imprimatur of the gone,
but not forgotten Gee-Gees, though I don’t
remember hearing it. Says Gussie, “Are you
dining anywhere on Thursday, old chap ? ” And
when the old chap—scenting an invitation in the
breeze—replied “No,” Gussie chips in with “By
Jove, won’t you be hungry on Friday, then ? ”
The short B. and B. season at Sydney Lyceum
ended last Thursday, with the “Notorious Mrs.
Ebbsmith,” who was a dowdy and vociferous
female while she lasted, and who never would be
missed if she was never billed again. Consequently,
while people hated to lose sight of the popular
players, they were glad to see the last of the dreary
cataloguing of matrimonial misfits which made up
the play. Mrs. Brough (whose voice showed signs
of the wear-and-tear of this ranting r&le) and Miss
Spong shared the floral honors of the occasion, and
the audience had the last curtain up three times in
farewell.
By the way, they clipped some of the redundan-
cies of dialogue in this wordy show and cut out
parts of the first business, one grateful elimina-
tion being the resting of Cecil Ward’s close-
cropped head on the very bare shoulder —to put it
very mildly—of Mrs. Brough. I never thought
that pose suggested dramatic passion—it was only
cheaply spoony d> la Sydney Hyde Park o’ nights,
where the lady usually does all the courting and
nestles the genleman’s manly head on her weak but
willing collar-bone. But Mrs. Ebbsmith abridged
was just as bad as that eccentric person in toto. The
only thing I liked about the play itself was the
cruel rise it took out of the she-wolves of the
Women’s Rights brigade. Here you had an
advanced woman trying to regard man as a worm to
be kerrushed under foot and never led to the altar,
yet falling heels over head in love with a paltry he-
person whose brazen faults of character were
vividly apparent to the meanest intelligence in
the back row of the gallery. And the best of it
was that the pusillanimous Mrs. E. drew the
female she-suffragists and New Women of Sydney
like a mustard-plaster—very much like one m the
ways she scored off their tenderest feelings. On
the last night a peculiarly hard case of would-be
female-voter turned up with an equally enthusias-
tic pal and both he-women sat and snorted scorn-
fully when Mrs. E. fell in love in “ the common,
weak way of women. ”
In one thing at least men can never hope to hold
a candle to women, and that is jumping to con-
clusions. There was an exposition of woman’s
ability in such mental gymnastics on a North
Sydney tram, the other day. A picnic-party got
out leaving two passengers, a man and a woman,
in the oar. Scarcely had the picknickers got
away and the tram started than the woman
frantically exclaimed to the man : “ O they’ve left
a basket! O poor things ! Do throw it out after
them ! ” So he took the basket and billy-can and
flung it after the party. But it wasn’t their bag-
gage, after all. The shrill shriek of the tram-
guard’s whistle as the billy clove the air disclosed
the fact that it was the long-suffering official’s
dinner which had been hurled at a party of total
strangers. The conductor got some of his food
back after stopping the tram, but the funniest
part of it was that the real culprit—the woman-
glared like Svengali for the rest of the journey.
How a woman does hate a man for merely obeying
her orders and making her look ridiculous !
The recent big ferry fatality in Bananaland
somehow reminds me of the stories told of the in-
gratitude of people who are saved from drowning
—in Sydney Harbor, anyhow. The cynical water-
police who cruise about in search of spilt crews,
and so on, have a poor opinion of humanity when
it is pioked up with a boat-hook out of the raging
main by its clothes or its back-hair. It’s not
always that the rescuers get decently thanked by
the men, and when the ex-drowned is a woman,
and thankful to the verge of coming round to re-
hearse her emotions three times a week—that
frightens the male Grace Darlings worse than any-
thing, for they know by bitter experience that she
has made up her mind to marry some of them.
From publisher H. J. Samuell comes “ Drifting
Away ” —song, words by Di Samuel, music by T.
A. Packer. The song is dedicated to Gov. Brassey
and a picture of the Sunbeam adorns the cover.
“ Drifting Away ” is a pretty, silvery melody, for
which the words are an admirable fit; the whole
thing would be oharming sung in a boat by moon-
light. A violin obligato is arranged with the song,
which is prettily written throughout, and in easy
compass—D to F.
Talking of music that most excellent con-
ductor, Mr. David Cope, jun., has everything in
train for the blossoming forth of a Sydney
Amateur Operatic cO., with the inimitable Harry
Leston as stage-providence. Great quantities of
amateur vocalists have joined in enthusiastically,
and, if their ankles perform half as well as their
voices promise, the new venture ought to boom,
and also prove a happy hunting-ground for W.
and M. Light and heavy opera is to be exploited,
but I hope the amateurs will give good old “ Mari-
tana ” a rest, and never allow their Serpolettes, in
“ Les Cloches de Comeville,” to weigh more than
9st. But, above all, I hope they don’t harbor fell
designs on “Mari tana.” Even professional
gipsies are a weariness and a burden, and, when it
comes to amateur Maritanas, with Lazariilo
supremely conscious in cotton tights, and the
King of Spain in a misfit wig knocking his shins
against the modern furniture in Mary s boudoir,
the situation becomes unbearable for every bo< y
but the relations of the performers. I never
knew why amateur operaticists don t mg up ne\.
stuff, and let the old chestnuts roast. I hope that
is what Mr. David Cope intends to do.
By the way, I am pleased to see that Sydney
Amateur Orchestral Society has yarded U P lts
recalcitrant subscribers and collected their tees,
and means to start on a fresh career of melody
with Hazon still at , the win d. For which relief
much thanks. The S.A.O.S. is too promising o
be nipped in the bud.
Extremely apropos to the near season of fish and
fasting which a large section of the religious com-
munity indulges in comes Mrs. Wickens s little
book of clear-cut recipes for savory Lenten dishes.
One’s mouth waters while devouring the printed
description of dainty dishes, which are all de-
scribed without those mysterious “ quantities
which make the old cook-book as eas .7 Y, UT ’ c T er "
stand as an apothecary’s measure. With Airs.
Wickens a spoonful of salt appears as such, and
not as “one cubic foot of saline particles, or
something of the sort. The only thing I object to
in “ Brillat-Savarin ”--I mean Mrs. Wickens s
charming volume —is her advice to the, cook
to color a lobster’s innards with “ rosalme, if the
crustacean isn’t blushing enough to make a pretty
dish. Why should we dye our poor unfortunate
stomachs to foster the vanity of a naturally anaemic
crayfish ? Nobody carries his love of color to
the extent of wanting to have his victuals sent
to a dyer’s.
Talking of meat and drink reminds me that
Sydney has a little Bohemian French cafe with
sand on the floor and paint on a fair percentage of
the lady patrons, and a very good menu to boot—
but, mind you, I don’t want to advertise it.,
Here’s an instance: “Voolez voo du poissong,
says the waiter in his best Woollooinooloo French
to the customer, who, if he is new to the establish-
ment, at once breaks out into a mental perspira-
tion sorting out “Wee” from among his lingual
superstitions. And then the good old order goes
clear and sharp from the same waiter down to the
kitchen, “ Fish, wan.’’
If you want to see what the “ society columns
of the daily papers have come to, just read Sydney
D.T. entertainment-list of last Saturday, and ask
some experienced man about-town who’s who.
The Comic Opera Co. made a welcome re-
appearance at Sydney Lyceum on 17th inst., and
set up one of the Firm’s gloomiest operas, “ Yeo-
men of the Guard,” as the vehicle to introduce
tenor Courtice Pounds. C.P. aforesaid is a bikist
of many laurels, so his legs may be warranted to
wash without shrinking, though if I hadn’t heard
on good authority that the “ full-fashioned ” bulge
was all his very own I might have been sceptical
as to the genuineness of his flowing ankles in
“Yeomen.” He is a plump and amusing youth
whose private pet name is the Heathen Chinee, on
account of his bland smile and half-open eyes, and
who is cheerfully unlike the tenor of commerce in
that he doesn’t leave a high note and a set of white
teeth to drag him through a show without further
effort on his part. Mr. Pounds’ own description
of himself is best: “ a comedian who can sing ”
his acting is as full of artistic detail as. his voice is
round, mellow, and sympathetic. I wish, though,
he wouldn’t occasionally give a wriggle when a
high note blocks the passage. I hate to see people
squeezing melody out of themselves as if they were
working vocal lemon-squash.
Flo Graupner was Elsie, in a frock beribboned
like a bazaar tambourine, and about two-thirds of
her old voice ; and another new member was the
large, fair Mr. Percy Bathurst, who usedn’t to
know what to do with his hands and feet in
“ Morocco Bound,” and who blossomed out as Sir
Riehard Chumley on a pair of thin black legs—
the whole structure weirdly suggesting a two-
legged spider running away with a barrel of tar.
But, mind you, those baggy, beef-eater robes make
both hands and feet look small by contrast —that
is why modern women wear big sleeves, to appar-
ently reduce their waist-measure. But I don’t
much care for Yeomen—it’s a bit of a problem
play in a small way, judging from the remarks in
act 2 that a “ Maid must marry. She must marry,
though the altar turns a tomb.” Really, it must
be most embarrassing to be a man nowadays !
I don’t think it’s quite fair, all this glorify-
ing of women as martyrs and it’s quite
superfluous, too, for every female under the sun
takes her little turn at wearing a resigned, bear-
me-to-the-stake expression (especially strong when
she knows she has got cold mutton for dinner), and
it’s sheer waste of time encouraging her in the
game she plays so well. There’s no “must” about
a “ maid ” marrying, exeept in comic opera—she
can say “ no ” everywhere else, though she doesn’t,
apparently. And, as for the “ altar turning to a
tomb,” why, men can stare at the stage with a
mournful expression just as well as women, while
the singers deal out such interesting statistics. I
have just heard of a bridegroom who doubled up
and died from peritonitis after bravely eating his
way through a pile of bride-made scones.
A quiet wedding was that of Mr. Herbert
Darley, son of Acting-Gov. Darley, who was
married to Miss Georgina D’Arcy Irvme, daughter
of the late Canon D’Arcy Irvine, of Goulburn, at
Bowral, on 13th inst. The bride wore the usual
albescent get-up with wide hat and feathers, her
three maids also sporting white frocks and hats, so
that the uninitiated looker-on sorted out the bride
with difficulty. The blonde Mr. Harry' Darley
was best man. I hear that the new bridegroom
and his brother are running a flourishing station
at Salisbury Plains, Bowen, N.Q., and that the
recent Benedict is spoken of as an aspirant for a
seat in next Bananaland Assembly.
SAPPHO SMITH.
Yours affectionately,
The Meliorates appear to be getting their
second wind. Sample of suspicious spook advtw
crowding S.M. Herald personal column :
MRS and Miss HAVEE hold Test SEANCES every
Friday, 8, Is. 16 Holdsworth-st., Newtown.
During the last session of Q. Parliament
Tozer talked 62yds. s.Vin. in Hansard minion
type Powers 40yds. 2ft. 6in., Drake 36yds. 2ft.
gin ’Glassey 37yds. 2ft. llin., Petrie Ift., Thomas
lft. 1 in., Midson 3ft., Crombie 2ft., Cribb Ift. sin.,
and the most astonishing fact is that Mat.
Battersby talked 4ft. 7in. —Bris. Worker.
Melb. Age was virtuously indignant with
Hancock, M.L.A., for “puffing” Speight in the
Assembly whilst his libel-action against the news-
paper is still subjudicc. The effrontery of this
indignation lies in the fact that David Syme has-
tened to glorify himself at a public dinner a while
ago when everybody knew that Speight’s appeal
to the Privy Council was being prepared.
One of the pleasantest, coolest, most
central and best-appointed restaurants in Sydney
is the Manhattan Dining Room, situated in the
basement of the great Equitable Building in
George-street, Sydney. It is in the middle of the
busiest portion of Sydney, and is in every respeot
a high-class establishment with good cooking, good
attendance, a lavish bill of fare, and luxurious
fittings and furnishings.*
The interminable Adelaide hospital dis-
pute, which nobody seems really to know anything
about, save that it is something concerning a
woman, has partially disrupted the Kingston
Ministry. Chief Secretary Gordon, one of the
strong men of the Cabinet, the promotion of whose
sister (a nurse) over the heads of her seniors at
Adelaide hospital was the casus belli, resigns, and,
with a general election close at hand, his depar-
ture may prove a shock to the Ministry of “All
the Talents. ” For a Cabinet of such a calibre to
disrupt over one hospital nurse is pitiable, anyhow.
Sometimes Northern agriculturists smile
at the Q. Agricultural Department—more often
they curse. Its Ministerial head is a bank-
manager, its office head an unsuccessful farmer.
The other day specimens of sugar-cane were
wanted, and an entomologist was sent to New
Guinea to collect them —all entomologists being
naturally cane-experts. He brought back, it is
alleged, a variety of samples which were full of
“borers,’’and had to be promptly destroyed, one
“ borer ” being calculated to ruin more cane in a
week than an entomologist could suck in a twelve-
month. The Department is now on the look-out
for an astronomer to go to Ceylon and collect
coffee-grubs.
The defeat of the Government candidate
at Christchurch (M.L.) was brought about through
the splitting of the vote on the Cold Tea question.
The Tory party put up Lewis as a single candi-
date. Two men, both bearing the lamentable
name of Taylor, insisted on standing more or less
in the Government interest, and when the Govern-
ment decided to support one Taylor the other
Taylor went in “on his own ” as a Cold Tea candi-
date pure and simple. As the Government’s
Taylor was only partially Cold Tea, and the loose,
independent Taylor was wholly Cold Tea, the
pump vote went solid for the latter. Result:
Oppositionist Lewis, 4714 votes; Cold Tea Taylor,
4302 votes; Government and partially-Cold-Tea
Taylor, 3196 votes.
Yic. Fat Man, disconsolate at the success
of the Turner Ministry and recognising its own
feebleness and incapacity to produce a leader —harm-
less Jock MTntyre, and the always-in-a-minority
Murray Smith, both being impossible—has written
to its old pet, Duncan Gillies, asking him to return
and save his bleeding country ; the idea being that
the author of the boom budget could upset the
present Government and then lead the Free-
Traitors’ campaign at next general election. But
letters received from the little man indicate his
unwillingness to return. The indolent Duncan is
very comfortable where he is. The Melb. Tories
sent him to London because he was in the way
while Patterson was forming a Ministry, and he is
not disposed to come back.
Yic. Legislative Council, under the leader-
ship of old Idoftgoods Sargood, made an exhibition
of itself as usual over the Federal Bill. In the
debate more than half the members declared that
it would be ruinous to trust the work of constitu-
tion-making to delegates chosen by the “ unedu-
cated masses.” Then they proposed to send ten
reliable, high-toned delegates appointed by Par-
liament, regardless of the fact that these would be
voted down by the thirty representatives of the
ignorant masses from N.S.W., Tasmania, and
S.A., so that their culchaw would go for nothing,
after all. And, finally, the Bill was passed on the
old basis —the appointments to be made by the
ignorant masses as originally proposed, so either
the Council doesn’t believe its own tale about
the ruin that will come upon the country or else
it doesn’t care whether the country is ruined or not.
The Yie. Council proposal to abolish the
ballot for the Federal delegates, and to substitute
the Post Office, is a specious attempt to revert to
the old condition of things when employes, tenants,
debtors, and defendants generally voted one way
and believed another. The' value of the ballot is
not that a man can vote secretly, but that he must
vote secretly. The voter at present cannot prove
whom he voted for, and the inquisitive parish
priest, and employer, and mortgagee can at best
but get the voter’s statement on the subject—the
consequence is that coercion of the old sort is a
thing of the past. The postal voting paper would
be marked under supervision of the boss, and
would record the opinions of the boss. If Vic.
wants to abolish anything, let it commence with
its Leg. Council.
Lewis, the Tory member for Christchurch
(M.L.), denounces the Seddon Ministry in a weak,
small way because it has, he alleges, “attracted
to our shores the poor and destitute of Australia.”
Any Government which makes its province worth
living in thereby attracts the poor and destitute of
other provinces ; the only way not to attract the
poor and destitute is to make the country unfit to
live in, and the Lewis kind of man objects equally
if the destitute come and also if they have reason
to stay away. And when the Seddon Govern-
ment tried to combine two sets of advantages by
making the province fit to live in on one side, and
shutting out the extraneous poor and destitute by
an Undesirable Immigrants Bill on the other, the
Lewis party objected in so loud a voice that it
nearly blew the roof off the Universe.


WEST AUSTRALIA.
SPLENDID BUILDING SITES AND BLOCKS
—AT—
PERTH, the CAPITAL CITY,
FROM £l5 EACH. VERY EASY TERMS.
Discount for Cash. Title Guaranteed Perfect.
The Intercolonial Investment Co.
(Limited),
jO9 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas, Manager.
S 3" Note.- Map of West Australia (4 colors)
atest data. Post free, Is. each.
CaledonianLiqueurWhisky
anii
/// /'jiii
Mm&mm
w
L«lllll|||ll!>*
m
llh.
..ill
VtJ.n
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
W BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE CREATED
by the
LIVERPOOL AND LONDON
AND GLOBE,
“THE GREAT FIRE and LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of the WORLD,”
under which
ONLY HALF THE AMOUNT OF ORDINARY
PREMIUMS ARE PAYABLE by the ASSURED
DURING THE FIRST FIVE YEARS,
whilst full amount of policy will be payable in the event
of death after payment of first annual premium.
Example—To secure £lOO at Death,
THESE TERMS are the MOST REASONABLE yet sub-
mitted by any Life Assurance Company.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Eat®s-
Head Office for Australasia, 62 PITT STREE i', SYDNEY,
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres
throughout the colonies and great Em pean ami Ameri-
can centres, at any of which Premiums may he made
payable or Claims in the event of deat h of the assured.
Total Assets to 1594 .. .. £9,374,598 stealing
Total Claims Paid . 31,615,692 stei ling
Total Nett Claims paid in Australasia 2,000,496 sterling
Total Annual Income .. .. 2,408,893 steeling
Head Office for Australasia:
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Resident Secretary, M. W. S. CLARKE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Govt, battle-cry : “Go on the
Sand, young man.”
The (S.A.) National League hankers for a
new name. Why not “ The National Leech ? ”
“ By Australian Independence, a career
would be opened for honorable ambition in every
form.”— Lang.
A year or two back, Parkes said he was
“of the stuff of which martyrs are made.” Now
he is a survivor of the “ giants.”
Parkes haspires to represent Waverley
because he wants “settled Government.” Ho
yus ! ’E wants the Reid Government settled.
When honbst men fall out, rogues
prosper. The Govt, gang will scoop the pool in
Bananalaml now that Powers has given Glassey the
retort courteous.
A current piece of cant up North:—“l
don’t really see any difference between the Oppo-
sition and the Government.” But they vote the
Ass ticket every time.
Before elector.; can vote in S.A., their
names must be on the roll for six months. The
general elections are being delayed to allow as
many women as possible to become qualified.
Q. Labor-party doesn’t like lawyers. It
looks askance even at Powers and Drake. But it
will put up Summerville, an Ipswich solicitor,
next May. Consistency thy name is—well, Labor.
“Dick” Newton must be a man of brass
to stand for the Barcoo. “ Phlebotomy ” argued
for a little blood-letting in the big shearers’ strike.
Sort of little pfeller brother to Colonel Lay-’em-
out.
J. Bull’s present scheme is to induce Presi-
dent Kruger to visit England and make him a
K.C.M.G. If you can’t kill a man, nobble him.
If you can’t nobble him directly, ennobble him.
It’s all one.
SPORTING ITEM.
BOOKIE: “ I wonder what old Miss Crock sees in that stout fellow to carry
on like that with him.”
BOOKIE'S GIRL: “I suppose she thinks it’s a case of weight-for-age. ”
N.S.W. ex-Treasurer See : “Mr. Reid
(Treasurer-Premier) intends to introduce a Bill to
regulate workshops and factories, but if he is
much longer in power, there won’t be any work-
shops or factories to regulate.”
Vic. railways announced railway works,
and in 10 days 1000 men applied for employment—
not all Victorians. Married men with two years
residence take precedence in r.ccordance with
neighbor Reid’s Freetrade policy.
Labor politicians are keen in the North.
The other day the Revision Court adjourned at
Cloncurry to allow a well-known station overseer
time to put in an electoral claim. The Labor men
immediately got horses; scoured the country for
some 250 miles, and turned up next court day
with 17 electoral claims to balance the other side’s
one.
Q. Government will put up “ Bob ” Fraser,
ex-Mayor of Brisbane, to run with Kingsbury.
Fraser has achieved a boisterous popularity by a
simple recipe. Always greet a man by his front
name, and shake hands with everyone you don’t
know.
Drake is to be opposed for Enoggera by
Woolcock, once private secretary to Griffith, and
the strongest supporter Drake had. After sitting
on a rail for years to see which way the cat would
jump, he has decided that she is once more about
to claw Nelson’s back hair.
Sydney D.T. gives Saturday portraits of
the two chief candidates in Waverley election. It
prints thfe Freetrader with full, smiling lips that,
at first sight, seem to show all his teeth ; it pre-
sents the Protectionist with a downward boomer-
ang curve that savors of ill-temper, if not of
hardened cruelty.
Boodlewraith is now cordially inviting the
Opposition to come inside and be assimilaterl.
Tozer is quite a Radical now ; the Kanaka trade
will soon be dead (the niggers will be, anyway),
and land-grant railway schemes are a thing of the
dim and distant past. But while those Acts dis-
grace the statute-book Tozer will protest in vain.
The other day an enthusiastic and con-
scientious Single-tax organ up North advertised
for a young fellow for the office, and all the appli-
cants were asked to give samples of their penman-
ship. The text set for them was : “ Protection
does not increase wages. ” After that the chosen
applicant was not startled to death when offered
ss. per week.
Dear Bulletin, —“ Bananaland, ”as ap-
plied to Queensland, is singularly inappropriate.
Portions (extensive ones, too, in the South and
S.W.) will not grow bananas at all, and others
grow them badly. The true banana-land ex-
tends from Mackay to Cairns —so that, in the
event of Separation, the real banana country
would lose its proper appellation, inasmuch as the
name Bananaland would probably adhere to the
Southernmost division or Q. proper. Why not
re-christen the country with that quaint, descrip-
tive vocable — “Mongrelia” ?— P. Luftig.
Maoriland finds a splendid opening this
year for its surplus grain in N.S.W., and a Christ-
church paper remarks that this sufficiently proves
the advantages of Freetrade. Quite true. Also
the German victories over France in ’7O showed
the advantages of having a rotten army, and in-
capable commanders, and a military system war-
ranted to go to pieces in the shortest time on
record. That is to say, they showed the advan-
tage to Germany of France having these things,
and in the same way the present case shows that
Freetrade in N.S. Wales is very good—for Maori-
land.
The Yic. Govern-
ment’s Wages Attach-
ment Bill, providing that
no wages amounting to
less than <£3 a week can
be garnisheed by a credi-
tor, nearly got through
the Assembly the other
day, but old, slow John
MTntyre, K. C. M. G.,
managed to block it, and
it was postponed. The
protracted John has three
standing complaints
against the Government.
One is that it has no
policy. Another, that it
borrowed its policy bodily
from the previous Patter-
son-MTntyre Ministry.
The third is that it is a
brutally Tory Govern-
ment ; and yet every
time it attempts to carry
a Liberal measure the
droning voice of old John,
K.C.M.G., complains
that it is “ revolution-
ary.”
An amusing inter-
lude recently took place
in Yic. Council. Fre-
derick Softgoods was
speaking of the danger
of populace-elected dele-
gates being sent to the
Federal Convention, and
the necessity for imposing
a severe penalty on can-
didates who came for-
ward “out of mere
vanity.” What was
wanted, he said, for the
Convention, were “men
from the educated
classes.” Then up rose
Donald Melville, who
said it fairly staggered
him to hear SIR Freder-
ick Softgoods talking of
anyone’s vanity. SIR
Frederick Sargood—Slß
F rederick !—and the old
man mouthed it over and
over again while Soft-
goods sat blushing like a
yard of his own red flannel.
N.S.W. Chamber of Manufactures reports
that one Sydney boot-factory has cut down wages
15 per cent, since the new tariff came into opera-
tion ; a large joinery work has made a reduction
of 20 per cent, and reduced its staff ; the Waratah
soap and candle factory has reduced wages 10 per
cent., and one cement factory has closed altogether.
This is what the S.M. Herald calls “ cheapening
production.” Also, Sydney Benevolent Asylum
reports that the number of destitute parsons re-
lieved in January, ’96, was the largest l’ecord for
one month since the institution started.
Perth (W.A.) Morning Herald has been
making a fuss over the ruinous departments,
and winds up by calling on Premier Forrest to
resign and appeal to the country. Now, one of
the principals of the Herald proprietary is Alex,
Forrest, M.L.A., brother of the Premier, and
people are wondering whether the Herald, having
just started, is only pursuing a circulation, and
will soon lapse into the straight path of Govt,
support.
A SUGGESTION.
Why not pick the Australian Team this way?
Editor Bulletin, —Ee the proposed
£lO,OOO Parliamentary grant to ex - Premier
Parkes : why not present to him the newly-arrived
statue of Governor Phillip in lieu of it ? As the
suffering province will have to foot the bill for
this monstrous legacy of Sirenry’s, two birds
would be killed with one stone —to say nothing of
the awful warning to future politicians.—E.D.E.
The Single-tax League, Sydney, is to be
“ revived ” —“ revive ”is good. The secretary, in
his next annual report, should be at some pains to
explain away the defection from the “ Cause ” of
men, who, like Fitzpatrick, of Windsor, and other
candidates for Parliament at last election, under
pressure, repudiated the Single-tax after years of
advocacy of it, and contented themselves with
avowing that they were simply Land-value taxers.
Sleath, M.L.A., whose quarrel with the
Labor-in-politics officials over a £25 cheque which
he got for the purpose of assisting him to contest
the Wilcannia seat is still going on, appears
to have scored so far since the correspondence
was published. First he was elected treasurer
of the N.S. Wales provincial council of the
Labor Federation ; after that president of the
A.W.A., which is the chief power in Bourke dis-
trict Labor circles. But it detracts from these
certificates that the A.W.A. poll closed before the
correspondence was published.
The N.S.W. Freetrade Government, in its
public works contracts, now fixes ss. a-day as the
minimum wage for unskilled labour. But it also
fixes it as the maximum wage, for all extra work,
which was not included in the specification, is
paid for on the ss. a-day basis, and not one cent
more. Therefore the contractor must stick to the
ss. so far as any extra work is concerned, and he
naturally sticks to it all through. Before the
Government’s minimum—or rather maximum—
wage came into force, the rates paid for unskilled
labor, to really good men, ran as high as 7s. a-day,
therefore the principal result so far has been a big
reduction in their earnings. This is what is called
“ reducing the cost of production.”
“As to why I wish to enter Parliament
again,” Parkes is reported as saying, “ I can only
say that I have sat in every Parliament that has
existed in this country, and I would like to sit in
this simply because I have been in the others.” It
is the horrible unsymmetry of the thing which
touches the old man, apparently. Parliament
doesn’t seem complete without him—there’s a void,
a sense of something missing—he has visions of
the Leg. Assembly waking suddenly in the night
and stretching out its hands to feel if he’s in the
bed, and crying all over the pillow because it
doesn’t know where on earth he’s got to. So the
poor old man proposes to fill that void at once.
It’s a bit of a sacrifice, but he likes to see things
harmonious and shipshape, and he’ll do it. “It is
my dooty.”
Cabled that Chamberlain says British
Government won t touch the agreement assign-
ing the Northern Territory to S.A., so that any
foreign syndicate which proposes to make the
wilderness smile with yellow-labor will have to
apply to S.A. Parliament. And in spite of J.
L. Parsons (a strange pet for the Australian
Natives’ Association, by the way) and his kindred,
there are enough Democrats in S.A. to give that
application a short answer.
The muni-
cipal deputa-
tion which
waited on Pre-
mier Turner,
the other day,
to ask that
Vic. Govern-
ment should
take steps to
prevent the
sale of diseased
meat and bad
milk, got a
violent set-
back. Turner
informed the
deputation is tfe
that the exist-
ing law gave
every munici-
pality ample
power to do
the work re-
quired ; that
the only trou-
ble was that
the councillors
wouldn’t use
their authority
(probably be-
cause many of
their constitu-
ents were in
the diseased-
meat and du-
b i o u s-m ilk
business); and
that if they
didn’t wake up
.'i the matter
he would try
to get the law
so extended
that the Go-
vernment
would be able
to sit heavily
on them for
not doing their
duty. Then
the deputa-
tion, which
had meant to
take quite a
different view
of the case,
went away with the dazed expression of a man
who has just caught a glimpse of his previous wife
whom he supposed to be dead.
W.A. Opposition is a bigger sham than
even some W.A. mines. Attorney-General Burt
lately hinted at resignation, and though Parlia-
ment contains a fair proportion of lawyers, the
two principally tipped for the office were Opposi-
tion-leader Leake and Oppositionist James. Each
would snap at the portfolio if the chance offered.
Premier Forrest has only to hold up a portfolio,
and the Oppositionists would fall over each other to
get at the prize.
Staggering revelations as to the state of
Victorian railways rolling-stock can’t wait many
more months. They must come. The carriage
fittings are dropping to pieces, the engines have
never before been in such a bad way within
the memory of the e ldest employes. Goods
trucks are laid aside by the hundred for repairs
that, will not be attempted until the ne' c railway
policy is decided upon. The failure of this year’s
wheat-crop spared the department a confession of
its truck shortcomings, inasmuch as means of
transit for a bountiful harvest are not available.
The commissioner who fin ’s hin elf appointed to
the job of making the \ . Jways pay, will
have to start off with an e._ _. mous new expendi-
ture on rolling-stock.
The S.M. Herald is right: Old man
Parkes hasn’t “ Buckley’s chance ” for the Waver-
ley seat. He has no show of being returned, and,
even were he elected, he would have no following,
and could do nothing. The Samson of old has
been shorn. The hairy hypnotist has lost his
ancient grip. The Sydney-Smiths, and Goulds,
and Youngs, and Garrards, the political starvelings
whom he once contemptuously employed as supers
in his show, and who, at his behest, were wont to
fill themselves up daily and nightly with meta-
phorical kerosene and candles, and mustard-and-
water, and other horrors, respond no more to the
glance of his erstwhile eagle eye. Once, they
would have quailed before him, like the slaves in
a pantomime. Once, at a word or a look from the
Hairy Bismarck, their knees knocked together
and the swe:.t of fear poured from their finger-
tips. But old man Parkes is played out and done
f or now.


< care a
jolly Aatwn ,
-1
&<**> 7 ,
'■-a ihet'fi-
,r A
d>^° 1 jf«
*?Otny t/nctee.
#• ' )J sef~
«r*U>
o£/o/-e mys'case /s Seen >°-
y/(ru/~ ezura ** y
amen sAoyL*- oe ,
/ t-/t/)r /~ Set <ns vA e
on /j ff/-aeat.
~\Ze/~f Z )/sc*p r /-ee<z/6/e .
Tut-net— ft/ote /a sh / ancl
/n su.ch c?/sites /00.
Jou urit] fret-si st in Aasnt'nf
€i/'er )r ~//i/ /? Zso~e sen cl
tff eur ‘C<\
f :Jk
\ d* r ' 7.
fjCorner rr> L*iof
MELBOURNIANA.


AN AUSTRALIAN lIORVCE Gil KELT.
Ths Young Man : ‘ I ve come, Mr. Reid, to ask what caree r
you would advise for a you. g man willing .to make his way by dint
ot brain, muscle, sobriety and bonestv V
, ,11 f K®>» ■' ‘To the sand-hills, young man—to the sand-
hula T
’W'HaT it mat £jJ -LUf.
COME TO. /ff I u If
SroKKsiiAtr or Deputation : /:?s / If
Tout- Excellency, we’h&re come to invite you to attend the
opening of the Doodletown Dickybird show on the 30th inst
HiS Ex : *ls there to be a banquet in the evening 1 *
Excellency ; you shall have
Hia Ex.: ‘Then my retainer will be £5 se. for the opening
banquet' r ' * refreSher “ f £ ‘° ,0a • for stopping on to the
The Rev. J. Reid told the Womanhood Suffrage League last
night thatouf present social system is corrupt, and must be altered.
The “chimney-pot hat” person was mainly responsiblo for this.’
-News Item.
The sooner man changes his headgear the better. A few flounces
the other extremity would doubtless assist in the reconstruction
of Society
The kind of hat which will rule the roost when Womanhood
Suffrage comes iu.
THE HART THAT ONCE !
It has one string left.
alternate droughts and floods up «-untry -call the old yarn
The. altc 0 f the nr Ar U»n*& Traveller.
Got3T ■ .. Why don't you re,uur your roof, old man .
ho3t a ** °idtane-
f THAT CABLE AGAIN;
London, Thursday.—Dr. Nansen Jias peached ji
the North Pole. He found an o«»en fertile pouiH ]
try that would grow any .nwrtal thing. In facf, •
the Chinese came there ages ago,*Jba ving scraped 1
away the iee and growp cabbages for the'l
Rekgavick market ever sinfes. r ' last itepa J
lacks confirmation.
Later.— Dr. Nansen denies that ixe found
cabbages growing at the Norih J?ole. *
SfiLt Later.— Dr. Nansen says there' is no
such thing as a “ Pole " nip there.
London, Friday. —lt is expected that by to-
' morrow Dr Nansen will deny that there is any
such person as Dr. Nansen.
Latest. —Hop. is a bit of a bar himself.
HIS GLORIOUS PAST—AND OTHER MATTERS.


Sawmills , Engines,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
FINE CAHMAGES and WAGGONS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, &e.
iFijiEiivciisrG-.
24 CtiXAVum Street SYDNEY.
The Old Blertd
Whisky
iT 6 HORSE
Cel^A^
WHI
aUHWT FROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE, SAME. PURE. MELLOW
■> .Wun D SCOTCH MALT
Edinburgh
THE BILLY TEA
Is the Finest Tea ever Sold at its Price.
IT HAS A LARGER SALE THAN ANY
PACKET TEA IN AUSTRALIA.
It is Used by all Classes of the Community.
It is always the Same and Never Disappoints
The Sales Exceed a TON per DAY.
JAMES INGLIS & CO,,
Dean's Place, SYDNEY, Sole Proprietors.
THE mutual life
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
The Largest and Wealthiest Life Insurance Com-
pany in the World.
Assets at date of last Official Investigation,
December 31, 1894,
£42,020,284.
PURELY MUTUAL.
ALL PROFITS go to the POLICY-HOLDERS-
All Modern Forms of Life Insurance.
Ihe Popular Trust Investment Policies were
Originated by this Office. ° ICieB were
Australian Department •
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney,
N.S.W. J
Z. C. RENNIE, General Maangkr
Branch Offices
1
Victcm; 473 Collins-street, Melbourne
Queen-street, Brisbane
Tasmania : 93 Macquarie-streit, Hobart
Personal Items.
It is somewhere stated that Lormer is re-
lated to Syme.
The late Governor Duffs personalty was
sworn at .£23,143, the estates being entailed.
“ Sir Henry Parkes, the ex-Victorian Pre-
mier.” So Reynolds’s Newspaper. Such is
fame !
The name of a Chinese witness called to
substantiate the charge of corruption against
a Melb. honorary magistrate vtas Ah Tip.
It is said that, as the result of a visit to
Chamberlain’s town residence, S. A. Agent-General
Playford has been induced to promise to buy and
wear a Court suit.
Ex-Chief Justice Stephen, on retiring, be-
stowed his judicial wig and robes on Justice
Windeyer. On the latter’s retirement who will
inherit ? The Bulletin suggests barrister Heydon.
It is the ambition of Premier Kingston’s
wife to be the first woman to vote at the coming
S.A. Assembly election. South Australia is the
first province on the continent to give the suffrage
to the other sex.
When will someone tell the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, as to the
reason why Col. Johnson was not shot for his
part in the Bligli rebellion, instead of being
simply cashiered ?
Theo. Hansen, the Victorian artist, has a
studio at Chelsea, London, and is doing real hard
work. He is much in request for local concerts,
and is enabled to keep the pot boiling by his
vocal abilities alone.
Regret will be felt in Sydney at the
death of a lady who was somewhat prominently
associated, in an indirect way, with a notorious
military inquiry, and whose position excited the
keenest sympathy for her at the time.
It is about time that old man Parkes’s pet
hangers-on abandoned their policy of working-up
outsiders to induce the veteran to make additional
humiliating public appearances. The issues of
the pitiable farce, if repeated, will assuredly react
upon themselves.
Patchett Martin, the literary Melbourne
ex-telegraph official, takes life very easily and
indolently in London. He is one of that rare,
lucky, much-envied type—the fireside, slippered
journalist. He has a little money, lives in quiet
style, and is fat and happy.
Sydney Jephcott has just been married to
Miss Dickson, an East Richmond (Melb.) lady.
Australians should know more than they do of the
singer of the “Southern Swan Song,” “’Twixt
Snow and Sleet,” and “A Hymn for the Dis-
possessed. ”
Vic. Education Minister and Chief Secre-
tary Peacock is getting himself disliked by the
Cold Tea and W.C.T.LT. brigades. Whenever
they deputationise him with thunderous allega-
tions re Sunday trading, or age of consent, or
half-witted Messalinas, &e., he listens blandly
for half-an-hour, only jerking in occasionally
“ Fancy that now ! ” Then he remarks, in a
quaintly quiet way, “Ladies and gentlemen, I
have listened carefully to what you have to say,
and will give your remarks exactly the considera-
tion they are entitled to. It is quite possible on
your own showing that you have more and better
opportunities for observation than governmental
officials and police could possibly have. There-
fore, if you will kindly place the facts, dates, and
proofs before me, I will carefully go into the
matter. Good morning.” Then the deputation
meanders out silently and wonderingly.
On dit that ex-
Govemor Robinson has
made scores of thou-
sands out of the Wes-
tralian boom. It is
good to be a Governor,
as his brother “Herky”
found, when Cecil
Rhodes undertook to
make his fortune in De
Beers. By the way, a
son of the late Westra-
lian Viceroy is said to
be a very promising
painter, and is studying
in Paris.
Mon signor Ver-
don, who left for Rome
to act as a sort of Aus-
tralian R.C. Agent-
General at the Vatican,
and who, it is cabled,
has been appointed
Bishop of Auckland,
M.L., in succession to
the late Dr. Luck, is
a nephew of Card.
Moran, and is in the
direct line to a red
hat and a cardinalate
in Australia'. Like
Cardinal Moran, he has
served his time as Rec-
tor of the Irish College
in Rome, and after-
wards as teaching-head
of a diocesan college.
These are among the
surest steps first to the
episcopacy, and, later,
to the highest ecclesi-
astical office. The work-
ing parish-priest stands
about one chance in
ten as against the
seminary or college pro-
fessor when mitres are
going round, a sort of
manual labor and pro-
fessional element influ-
encing the result.
Stead is described as an ordinary-looking
man, about sft. 2in., shabbily dressed in a badly -
cut tweed suit of assorted patterns. Strong,
broad, heavy face, seamed with wrinkles ; pene-
trating eyes, ugly mouth, with discolored, sepa-
rated teeth. When he smiles which is more
frequently than you may expect —the lower lip
drags down on one side. His forehead flows up
on each side of his scalp, divided by a jutting pro-
montory of loose, fluffy hair. His full-bearded,
benevolent, matter-of-fact face is suggestive of
the foreman-mechanic who has risen by worthy
merit.
The friends of Hon. S. E. Lees, M.L.C.,
ex-Mayor of Sydney and ex-superintendent of
William-street Wesleyan Sunday-school, got a
“ perfect staggerer ” last week, when they saw his
name appearing as that of one of the trustees
for a lottery-distribution of properties. Mr. Lees
has since repudiated all knowledge of the matter.
The name of an old Bulletin artist crops
U P m the Illustrated London News, in a rather
fine double - page illustrating a full - dress
rehearsal at Drury Lane. The draughtsman is
Mr . Sam . Begg> w y ho drew some of the first illus-
trations for this paper, and has now obtained a high
position in English black-and-white art.
The late Richmond Thatcher was always
very timid in crossing a street. A friend who had
often remarked this once asked him the reason-
“ Well, old man,” replied Dick, “ I am always in
dread lest I should be run over and killed by a cab
containing a woman of the town— which I considex
the most dishonorable death an honorable man can
die. ”
The Methodist, of last week, contained
an obituary of Mr. Reuben Hall, who was always
a staunch Wesleyan. No reference was, however,
made to the intense strain to which his loyalty to
that church was subjected by the treatment meted
° llt Wesleyan Conference to his son, the
Re J: H j Hall > for advanced social and
P ° 1 ICa vlews ‘
Journalist : ‘ ‘ Bear Rappiport, the Melb-
J.P. accused of corruption, always struck one as an
extremely able Bench amateur, rapid in seeing to
the veg marrow of a thing, and fearless m speak-
His blindness seemed to give him a valuable
concentration of thought, and a professional like
Panton, with a mind tending to divagation, was
much indebted to him.”
A Golden Wedding. Asher— Levy,
Feb. 11, 1846, at the residence of the bride’s
parents, Sydney, by the Revd. J. Isaacs, Morris,
son of R. B. Asher, of Jersey, Channel Islands, to
jSSt ou^the
f ew remaining members of theN.S.W. Parliament
of 1856 in which he sat for the o i d constituency of
Canterbury
r . . , .
Purves, in his diatribe against Champion,
SSinti.iS'tj.P.'S
called it a cowardly and blackguardly attack on
a probably-inrocent man.” All the same, the
J.p. f n question, or one very like him, has since
been fined for drunkenness and insulting behavior,
and has been called upon to show cause why he
should not be struck off the list of honorary
magistrates.
Edward Macdowell (Solicitor-General of
Tasmania early in the forties) lived at St. Helena
when Napoleon was there. During that period
le petit caporctl had a severe toothache, and when
the resident-surgeon extracted the molar, he gave
d tf ! Macdowell. Years afterwards, “Tom”
Macdowell (Edward s younger brother) had it set
ma . rm ?> n “ w lr \ possession of his daughter,
re ® l dmg m Maonland. Ihe tooth is a large
pointed one, in perfect preservation,
N.S.W. Premier Reid, speaking at Waver-
ley the other night on behalf of the widow and
children of the late Angus Cameron (into whose
seat he, the Premier, seeks to assist the .yapping
little Alderman Jessep), quite broke down with
emotion. Mr. Reid is in by no means good health,
and anxiously awaits the return from Japan of the
head of the Ministry, Attorney-General Want,
who cannot possibly be back for six weeks at
least. The Premier often finds it hard to stay
awake, and, as he is a man who can’t possibly take
any exercise to speak of, his condition is most un-
satisfactory.
CARRIE MOORE and IVY SCOTT, in “ Djin-Djin.”
Archbishop Murphy (R.C.), of Hobart,
now in his 83rd year, who is an enthusiastic
astronomer and an excellent showman, the other
day invited a select party to visit his observatory,
where he has a very fine telescope. Lady Gor-
manston, who was star-gazing, suddenly exclaimed,
“ Oh, archbishop, it is wonderful, really wonder-
ful, most wonderful!” “Yes,” said the arch-
bishop, apologetically, “ but will your ladyship
please excuse me one moment, just while I remove
the cap of the telescope ? ”
A correspondent writes to Melb. Herald,
strongly disapproving of Premier Turner’s clothes.
The positively truculent shabbiness of the Hon.
George will precipitate a crisis one of these days.
It is in strong contrast to the spick-and-span neat-
ness of the ennobbled M‘lntyre, leader of the
Opposition, who, in black frock-coat and black
tie, looks like an undertaker. The Turner Govern-
ment are an ill-dressed lot altogether. Attorney-
General Isaacs and Lands Minister Best are the
only mitigating items.
ACROSS THE BAR.
“ Water? ” the maiden queried low,
The youth made answer, “Sweet,
I like my poison best, you know,
As you are—always neat.”
Smith, the clever barrister who succeeded,
against mighty odds, in getting a certain Melb.
boomster committed for trial, is about to shake
the dust of Australia from his feet and try his
luck in Hingland. Few briefs come to Smith
since his unexpected achievement m the Mer-
cantile Bank case, bat Man has labelled him
dangerous or disloyal to the profession,” or
something of that sort, and when he leaves Mel-
bourne the noble army of bank-directors and their
friends will whisper, Serve him right !
It was Premier Reid who defended Francis
Abigail on his trial before Judge Windeyer, and
his conduct there raised him many degrees in the
eyes of the profession The fimt few days of
the trial were marked by squabbles between
Judge and counsel m which His Honor came
off decidedly second-best. Referring to a remark
made by Mr. Reid to Mr. Rogers Q.C counsel
Mr KMA “R’svuigar
Mr. Reid ! It s vulgar ! No one present will
7oßt
Thank Your Honor for the lesson !” The true
story of the conduct of that trial has yet to be
'. . _
A tat and sloppy London paper called the
Queen roundly abuses The Bulletin in a recent
number. The Bulletin “is a low paper ” savs
the Queen, and “ once floated into local fame an
undertaker who wrote sonnets.” Name? But
that is not what’s the matter. The trouble is that
“ St. Barbe,” the Queen contributor, who seems
to edit and practically write the whole paper
barring a weekly letter from “ Sir ” Besant seems
to be the bogus Australian B. W. X. Sladen the
cheeky self-advertiser for whose alleged po’etrv
The Bulletin has so often had to express honest
derision. “Her baby seemed better and more
cheerful; and tinned milk seemed to agree with
it,” once wrote Sladen in a solemn dirge about an
infant. ° an
A photo, of little Carrie Moore p nflQ
in transacting a medley duet S Ivy Scott fs
published herewith. Miss Moore, at 13 years’ of
age, promises to become a valuable variety artist
She was introduced to manager Williamson before
Xmas as a novice with natural talent for the stage
Having been tested and found bright, she was put
into the third act of “Djin-Djin”to do “ I don’t
want to play in your yard ’’ along with Ivy Scott.
For a debutante, Carrie Moore acquitted herself
wonderfully well, and when another duet was sub-
stituted for the “ Yard ” ditty, the young beginner
Carrie Moore will probably distinguish herself in
the profession if she keeps a stout heart and
doesn t get her head turned from the narrow, pre-
oipitous path Which leadeth to success.
A monument is being erected in MePb.
cemetery over the grave of “Father Finn, of
Heidelberg,” who has been dead 15 years. F.F.
was the first priest educated and ordained in Vic-
toria, but he fell out with Archbishop Goold and
wasn’t interred in the Mortuary Chapel with the
other priests. But F.F.’s brother-in-law, an in-
fluential squatter, went to Rome a few years ago
and made “proper representations,” and now
Father Finn’s name has been inscribed on the
tablet in the Mortuary Chapel with the others.
A recently-
created Aus-
tralian lady-
ship, when
offering her
guests fruit,
politely asks:
“Will you ’ave
some stomach-
ache ? ”
The recent
visittoAustra-
lia of a certain
portly eceles-
iastic was
m arked by his
appreciation
of the good
things of this
world, an ap-
preciation
commented on
without excep-
tion by all the
gentleman’s
entertainers.
Up North his
s a i n tsh ip’s
storage capa-
city was in
great f o rm.
One day, after
disposing of
enough pro-
vender to sa-
tisfy three
Malicolo boys,
the good man
prepared to
enjoy a hearty
meal, and
asked for a
plate of oxtail
soup. When
the steward
placed before
him a large
plate contain-
ing three tiny
joints from the
extreme end of
the bullock’s
tail, horror was
depicted on
the pious tra-
veller’s bene-
volent coun-
t e n a n o e.
“Steward,” he
exclaimed, in
tones of ex-
tremist suffer-
ing and melan-
choly, “ what
are these cigar-
ends doing on
my plate ? ”
Colonna Close was once the hero of a
lively passage-at-arms with Judge Windeyer
His Honor made some demur to the questions
counsel was putting in cross-examination but
Colonna persisted. The Judge throwing down
his pen, leaned over the bench and exclaimed:
“ When I see some counsel defending prisoners in
this court I shudder-r-r for their clients ” “ And
I, your Honor,” retorted the counsel with a
characteristically patronising wave of the hand,
“when I see some Judges sitting in criminal
cases > 1 shudder for the accused.”
The evidence given by certain J’sP in the
Melbourne alleged corruption cases recalls the
case of Ernest Augustus Slade, Esq., P.M., of
Sydney, who confessed to a Select Committee of
the Commons that his indiscretion in permitting
three convict women to occupy the same room a!
himself was due to his youthfulness and want of
knowledge of the world* Slade, for his conduct
m the matter, was removed from his police-
essas f r'r v£ ir i
additional f ei ( gave him
planationof which’ littfe that
Slade had the distinguished honor of being the
natural son of the Duke of Cumberland.
Bird T T> , , T ,
u • J seems to be Melbourne s
cllan ?Pion spouter. The Enquiry Board was
n , ear V swept away by his Worship’s preliminary
°' :)Sf ‘ rv . a t l ons touching his friendship for a lady of
ea -?? r Vlr , ue - *HI show a little feeling I trust you
wui pardon me, ’ said Bird, J.P., with fine frenzy
+. n * US Then he poured forth an impassioned
J? rre J lt °* Shakespeare, and quoted “ M‘Dougall,
ui “ am .ous cattle-dealer ” (!!) to the effect that
• • tell - Bird’s family blood has been tell-
m?> a Pß ears > ever since the great and glorious
reig ? Elizabeth, of blessed memory, for when
y ueen Bess wished to send a number of loyal
subjects to the South of Ireland, his (Bird’s)
meal ancestor- .At this point Judge Williams
tak^evidTncV^W* Board wasn’t
and tfe anybod J ® lmeal ancestor,
minutes g reluctantl y dned up for a few


z'
Vf
£
Z2Z
Z Y' < r/sYsZ6
x:
I
i
*2
zT
/
u-=*l
“ tll_l//j7
4
m
V//M
' <,
wm-
/<
ww/ss. xx-xxt?z>z^?
%
■
•zz
A\ {
l\ i', \ r >i'3 aR ‘
vQJ
Z^
m
z
'A
fcpmrifiiii'T-
i
Passenger : “ Hi, boy; have you any FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CIGARS 1
Boy : “ Rather ! Why, everyone smokes them because they are so mild and fragrant.”
Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Great Emporium.
The Colossal and Artistic Show of Australasia.
Universally Renowned as the Great English Cash Trading Firm.
In Full Swing* under the Freetrade Banner of New South Wales.
“ Cash is the life, the crown of trade, for all that’s good, for all that’s made. Then, buy for cash, all who would share cheapest and best for look and wear.
Its voice is loudest ’midst the throng ; its music grandest in the song ; its banner highest up the hill; its motto “ Upward, onward still.”
The Comprehensive Character, the Elegance, Variety, and Extent of Our Stocks of FINE GOLD JEW ELLERY, DIAMONDS, SILVERWARE, and
SPECIALTIES have never been approached. Our Establishment is a complete Constellation of Brilliancy, and a Panorama of Artistic Show.
Prices saving to every Purchaser from Six to Eight Shillings in the Found.
Watches at Freetrade Prices.
Our Own Make of World-wide Repute, English throughout, Silver, £2 10s, .£3, and £3 10s, Ladies’ and Gent.’s. One of these will wear out a dozen of ordinary make. Keyless ditto, £4 4s,
jg 4 10s to jge 10s, perfection of workmanship ; ditto, 18ct. gold, £l2 10s to =£22 ; Ladies’ ditto, £7 10s to =£l2 10s. Very finest quality Swiss manufacture Ladies' and Gent.’s Silver, =£l ss, £1 10s,
to £3 iOs. Our Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Princess Keyless Hunters, £5 10s, are cheap at ten guineas. Nonpareil ditto, £7 10s, never equalled. Solid, substantial and reliable. Every watch a work of art.
Gold Jewellery at Freetrade Prices.
Elegant Gold Brooches all prices, 5s 6d to 12s 6d. Gem Set Gold Brooches, 10s 6d to 30s. Highest grades, 30s to .£lO, thousands to select from, all the very pick of London, latest designs; Gold
Bane-les and Bracelets ’every specialty on show, from 20s to £3O ; Loose Chain Curb Bangles, any price, from 30s to £8 10s ; Ladies’ Gem Rings, in new designs, from 10s 6d to £5 ; Wedding and
Keeper Rings, special value. The New Heart Pendants and Neck Chains, elegant variety, from 4s 6d to 25s ; Locket ditto, Long Muff Chains, Pencil Cases, Fob Chains, Sovereign Purses, Links,
Studs, and Pins, a labyrinth in variety and display, and at prices to suit every purchaser.
Diamonds at Freetrade Prices.
TVw» Whifwf and Brightest of the Bright only. Ladies’ Half-Hoop Rings in variety and value, no equal prices, £5 5s to £5O; Gent.'s Single-stone ditto, £4 4s to £100; Stars, Tiaras, Necklets,
Pins, and Studs at all prices ; Diamond Brooches and Bracelets, from £lO to £100; Flies, Crescents, Sprays, Heart Pendants, etc., the finest assortment m Australasia.
Silverware at Freetrade Prices.
tctcr of our Stock embrace everything worth looking for, our London
• ; .o so favor ns hundreds upon hundreds of New Elegant Articles of
any instances one-half that usually charged.
v fw ,-UNaw iust landed ex mail steamers. At least Five Thousand Articles to select from. Toilet Brushes, Hand Mirrors Scent and Salt Bottles, Powder Boxes, Trinket Boxes,
Cases Tea and Coffee Services, Waiters, Candlesticks, Napkin Rings, Button Hooks Glove Stretchers, Thimbles, Match Boxes, etc. Visit our Establishment, outside or
inside, and everywhere alike you will find the character and newness of the article on exhibit “ PAR EXCELLENCE.
Electro-plate at Freetrade Prices.
the very best make at all prices from 3s 6d to 20s, most suitable for presents. In this Department our Prices will be fount
„ , , th above ii ne it will pay you to write to us. Whether you live in New South Wales or otherwise, it will pay you to visit us, and also interest you to view
he Finest in the Queen’s Dominions devoted to our line of business, containing the Grandest Exhibition and Variety of Stook ever brought together. Everything New, Everything
Clegant! Everything at Prices which no competition can come near.
Illustrated Pamphlet Post Free. Goods Forwarded (Duty and Carriage Paid) to any part of Australasia.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George-street, and Strand , Sydney , New South Wales.


MR. DUANE, OF AUCKLAND.
We shall print the whole of Mr. Isaac Duane’s
letter, only regretting that it is not longer. He
might have mentioned that June, the month in
which he wrote, is the coldest month in the year
in his country, and January the hottest. He might
also have reminded us that New Zealand is almost
as large as Great Britain, with a much more
desirable climate. He might further have said
that it is a wholesome place to live in, as it con-
tains few physical sources of disease, and possesses
no insect so noxious as the English wasp. Yet on
reading his letter we shall find that those attractive
islands in the far Southern Sea are not free from
an enemy we are called upon to fight here in Eng-
land, as elsewhere throughout the world.
“ I have much pleasure in writing you,” says
Mr. Duane, “as to me it is a privilege as well as
a duty to describe an experience in which I am
confident you will be interested.
“ Ever since I was a boy I have not only suffered
from indigestion in its worst form, but 1 have been
a martyr to it. Such success in life as I have
achieved has been in the face of the constant
opposition set up by this miserable complaint.
All its symptoms are familiar to me as the smoke
of London is to a dweller in that rather grim old
city. The bad taste in the mouth, the fitful
appetite, the distress in the stomach after eating,
the pains in the chest and back, the dull headache,
the sense of weariness and fatigue, the depression
of spirits, the want of ambition to take hold of
any labor, the weakness resulting from lack of
sufficient nourishment, &c.—all these were part
and parcel of my life from my youth to a time I
am going to speak of in a moment.
“ I can only account for it by assuming that I
must have inherited a tendency to this disease.
At all events it cast a gloom over my whole his-
tory up to the date of my recent happy deliverance.
The record of the sleepless, wretched nights I
passed would make almost a volume by itself.
Times beyond counting I have arisen from my
bed in the morning, glad the night was gone, and
yet in no frame of mind to welcome the day. To
ithe chronic dyspeptic rest does not bring strength
as it does to others.
“You will hardly need to be told that I made
every effort to obtain a cure. I tried medicine
after medicine —now something I thought of my-
self and then something advertised in the news-r
papers. And as to doctors (against whom I desire
to say not a word), I tried one after another, and
faithfully used the prescriptions they gave me;
but nothing more than temporary relief came of it.
‘ ‘ About four years ago a friend spoke to me of
the great reputation of Mother Seigel’s Syrup in
curing all ailments of the digestion, and urged me
to make a trial of it. I might as well say frankly
that I had little faith that it would do me any
good; but I was in such pain that I was in a
mood to try anything that offered the remotest
chance of a cure. So I bought a bottle, and the
very first dose made me feel better. This was so
cheering and hopeful that I continued taking the
Syrup, and to my surprise I grew better and
better until I was cured. All the symptoms which
made my life a burden for so many years are now
gone, and lam a different man. If ever, from
any cause, I have a temporary recurrence of
indigestion, a few doses of Mother Seigel’s Syrup
Eroduee immediate relief, and leave me in good
ealth. You have my full consent to publish this
letter. lam well known in Auckland, and always
glad to tell anyone by word of mouth what a
wonderful cure your remedy worked in my case.
(Signed) Isaac Duane, coach builder, Karangahape
Road, Auckland, New Zealand, June 25th, 1895.
Our home readers will perceive that not in
England alone but in far distant quarters of the
globe this celebrated medicine is known, and is
successful where others do not avail. It is the
most commonplace of truths that its praises are
sounded wherever civilisation extends, and almost
in every written language the name of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup finds an acknowledged place.*
One legal gentleman, anyhow, is bitterly
disappointed over the Maoriland Midland Rail-
way arbitration. When he came to Wellington
with his brief he took it for granted that the case
and his refreshers would go on in the orthodox,
interminable legal fashion, and he hired a fur-
nished house for six months. Then Umpire
Blake put the case through in three weeks, and
the feelings of that lawyer are too painful for
expression.
The most successful volumes
ever published in A ustralasia.
The Man from Snowy
11 iv e r an d ot he r
Verses. By A. B. Paterson
(“ The Banjo.”)
Fifth Thousand. 5/-; post free, 5/4.
In the Hays %vhen the
World teas Wide and
Other Verses . By Henry
Lawson. Price, 5/-; post free, 5/6
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
Booksellers to the University, The Public Library
of N.S.W. and The Parliament Library,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Book Club.
Catalogues and Tenns of Membership, for
Town and Country, on application to
Angus & Robrrtson, 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
A
aStock-holder
If so, sell all your FATS through us. No double com.
missions or disputes. VVe kill and export. All charges
ljd. Sales of Country-killed Meat Daily. Drop us a line’
M‘MASTER CO.,
Government Meat Markets, DARLING HARBOR.
GW
dgcjd
owl
o^^ -
THE
GES
IN THE
NIARK'EI
M.W.ftCi
TWELVE HUNDRED new wayst?
Make Money.
Sent Post Free for 2/6.
C. SMITH & CO., 264 Russell St., MELBOURNE
Medical.
Snakebite Antidote
POCKET CASES.
For Dr. Mueller’s
Successful Treatment of
Snakebite by the Hypo-
dermic Injection of Strych-
nine, with Patent Poison
Suckee, Hypodermic
Syringe, two Tubes of
Strychnine Tabloids, which
will keep for years, and
Full Directions for Use.
Price, complete, 16s 6d— postage paid to all parts
of Australia.
L. BRUCK, 13 Castlereagh-st., SYDNEY.
GENTS.’ Latest American Preventative-
Simple, effectual, last for years. 2/6 posted.
Write WILLIAM GARFIELD, Collins-street
West, MELBOURNE.
PULMONI
Registered. A positive
and speedy CURE for
Consumption,
Catarrh, Colds,
and all Pulmonary Affections.
Price, SS. per
bottle posted.
ALFRED J. FLEGGr,
Box 642, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MARK FOY
His Value
Is Staring You in
For Your BOOTS.
the Face.
r
A
PRIZES—£23OO
PRIZES —£2300
PRIZES—£23OO
PRIZES—£23OO
PRIZES—£23OO
PRIZES—£23OO
GRAND EXHIBITION.
■=>=C> ,; S3S&3l^’<3= c =<=—
EASTER CARNIVAL.
Ist to 7tli April, 1896.
Prize Schedules and all information from
F. WEBSTER, Secretary,
Tattersall’s Buildings, Hunter Street, SYDNEY
*
The most effectual Melb. debt-collector is
a coal-black darkey champion heavy-weight fighter
and wrestler. He sits in the Govt, office-passages
and then, questioned as to his business, explains
that Mr. Shentpershent has sent him to collect an
instalment from Mr. Algernon Sealingwax. It is
impossible to move him until the unfortunate
civil servant “ stumps up.”
A newspaper without paper, La Tela
Cortada, “The Out Cloth,” is the title of a
Spanish satirical weekly, published at 2h<i. It is
printed on a handkerchief, which, after reading
the contained matter, the buyer can send to the
wash. It would be a good idea to print some of
the Australian evening papers on cambric; then
one could wash them before reading them. They
badly want washing.
Dear Bulletin,— The exact note of the
morepoke need not be a matter of controversy.
At a short distance, it is distinctly “more-poke.”
Approaching the .limit of audibleness—which,
under favorable conditions, is about a mile—it is
just as distinctly “ pope-pope ;” certain sound-
vibrations being exhausted in transit. ‘ ‘Mo-poke ”
is intermediate; andno further rendering by means
of our alphabet can be oorrect. At a short dis-
tance, the double note impresses one as strong
and striking; softened by distance, it becomes
weird, sad and forlorn.— Tom Collins (Vic.).
In Maoriland, if a prisoner escapes from
the lockup, the policeman who was in charge at
the time is given three davs in which to find him.
If he doesn t get him within that time, the M.L.
Govt, has no further use for that policeman.
Consequently, the most fearsome example of fast
sprinting in the province is a lockup-keeper going
after an escaped prisoner, and in 99 cases out of
100 he is back with him, or with one who looks
sufficiently like him to pass muster, inside the
specified time. In the hundredth case he simply
sends back his uniform by parcel post and goes
gum-digging.
Dear Bulletin, — Re your remarks on
Premier Braddon and the Alabama. The Alabama
didn’t go to the bottom in her first fight, as her
first engagement was with the U.S. war-steamer
Hatteras off Galveston, when the Southern ship
sank her enemy and captured her crew in 13min.
The defeat of Semmes and the destruction of the
Alabama by Winslow, of the Kearsage, was no
disgrace to the former, as the Kearsage was practi-
cally an ironclad ; and U.S. Captain Winslow’s
report of the engagement states that early in the
fight the Kearsage was wounded in the stern-post
on the water-line by a 3-inch shell, and that a
catastrophe was only averted by the shell failing
to explode. The shell was cut out and is still on
view in the Naval Museum, New York.— Hermes.
The Melb. police-courts have a way of
rubbing things in. The other day a young man
who had just escaped after a hard run with a
stolen brown-paper parcel, took refuge on a St.
Kilda tram, but a constable who was on the
vehicle arrested him on spec. He got three
months. Then the officer applied for travelling
expenses, and 4s. 5d. being found on the prisoner,
2s. of it were handed over to the intelligent bobby.
Here the prisoner, who had taken the three
months philosophically enough, proceeded to lift
up his voice in protest. “ I don’t mind the three
months’ quod,” he said, “ but they didn’t ought to
have copped my two bob. It’s the meanest thing
I ever heard of. Here I’ve got to pay a —; —
policeman for runnin’ me in. I’m actshally payin’
for the wear an’ tear of the blessed officer.”


Some definitions. Morality : A woman’s
love ; and brotherhood. Immorality : Sublimated
morality. The Devil : Two or three old women.
A Sydney house-agent now puts in a
Chinese bailiff at 4s. a day on distressed tenants.
The regular rate for the Aryan bailiff is Bs. a day,
so the Chow has a distinct advantage in point of
cheapness. Think of the degradation of a country
where a white woman whose rent is in arrear is
bailiffed by a Chinaman !
RABBITS IN VICTORIA.
The Rodney, Waranga and Deakin Shire Councils,
in conference on 22nd January, 1890, unanimously
resolved to purchase TOXA, the celebrated rabbit
exterminator, in wholesale quantities, in order
that they might be able to supply it to their rate-
payers at cost price.
The shattered skeleton of a man was found
lying under a bush at Yancowinna (Broken Hill),
the other day, and the nearest constable was sent
to investigate the matter. The constable, having
gazed intently at the bones, some of which had
been pulled around by hungry quadrupeds or
birds, found a verdict to the effect that deceased
had expired about three years ago from natural
causes. After which he gathered up the fragments
and gave them Christian burial. It takes a police-
man to discover whether a clean-picked bone died
from natural causes or a dose of poison.
Dear Bulletin,—The correspondent who
writes about mutton-birds’ eggs being disposed of
to Vic. housewives as farm-reared duck-eggs,
“ which they much resemble,” has evidently never
seen, or smelt a mutton-bird’s egg. It does not
resemble a duck-egg, being distinctly ovate (with
a broad lower extremity), of a rough chalky-white
color, while the anas backyardii lays an oval egg,
polished and bluish-white. Besides, even a blind
housewife would not be taken in unless she had
influenza —the strong musky smell is detectable
at 20yds. I submit, as proof, a blown specimen
that has been in my cabinet seven years, and is
still strong.—Van Demon.
S.S. : A recent “ Sappho” paragraph has
determined me never again to commiserate the
female in distress. Some time back I gallantly,
and even apologetically, drew the attention of a
fashionably-dressed young lady to the fact that
her watch was hanging out, and she rewarded me
with a look of utter loathing. The other day, in a
railway-carriage, I discreetly intimated to a sweet
creature in pink that her hair had broken bonds,
and her contempt for my ignorance found expres-
sion in a sneer from which I have not yet re-
covered. Now, when I see a lady with her golden
hair a-hanging down her back, or with her store-
teeth attached to her ear, or her rationals on
upside-down, I shall maintain a masterly reticence,
and assume that the apparently dismantled
female is a pioneer of fashion.
jyjONTSERRAT
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserrat
used i n i ts prod uc tion.
H-A.nNT3NT-A.3Vi:’S
Patent Portable
Atmospheric
SHOWER.
mm
,
'iA i i
\
The most convenient and comfortable shower in
existence.
A hot or cold shower bath with a bucket of water.
No pumping required whilst having the bath.
A perfect boon to anyone who requires a hot or
cold hath at a minute’s notice.
After filling the cylinder with water give a few
strokes to the air pump, which charges the
machine ready for use.
NO FIXING REQUIRED.
NOTHING TO GET OUT OF ORDER.
ALWAYS READY FOR USE.
PACKED COMPLETE.
Price 50s.
HANNA M & CO.,
Queen’s Place, Sydney, N.S-W-
-lOR SALE. A quantity of Bourgeois,
Minion and Nonpareil type, in good order,
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £3,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital, as on 10th Sept., 1895 1,894,200 0 0
Reserved Fund, as on 10th Sept., 1895 1,172,297 2 0
Directors:
Jambs Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. I Thomas Cadell, Esq
Robert C. Close, Esq. | James T. Walker, Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milsom, Esq.
London Office-Old ICrond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects l'or
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Dr. ROBERTS’
Axe a Sovereign Remedy for
Bruises,
Burns,
Cancer,
Cuts,
tczema,
II
Eruptions,
Eyes InflamcJ,
Fistula,
Gangrene,
Pimples,
Piles, Scorbutic Complaints, Skin Diseases
Ulcerated Legs &. Wounds of every description.
Price Is. l£d., 2s. 9d., 11s., 225. each.
Sole Proprietors,
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd., Bridport, EKQ.
“A Golden Shanty.”
m- PRICE : Is. ; per Posts, Is. 3d.
—THE—
Colonial Mutual Fire
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices : SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 King William Street.
BRISBANE, Creek Street.
MELBOURNE, 60 Market Street.
'HIGHLY important sale
—OF—
ERY.
The whole of the Machinery of Two London
Companies.
Junction Lend and Lagoon
Paddock Sgndicatcs.
Situated on the Gulgong Goldfields.
M*r\A/rM O Ofl Y Have received instruc-
tWLlM <X UUA tions to sell by auction,
ON THE GROUND, near GULGONG, on
WEDNESDAY, 4th MARCH, 1896, at ONE
O’CLOCK, the whole of the valuable Mining
Machinery belonging to the Junction Lead and
Lagoon Paddock Gold-mining Syndicate, includ-
ing—
RAND GRANT ROCK DRILLING PLANT
(complete),
Boilers, Eng'nes, Iron Puddling Machines,
binding Machines, Pumps, etc.,
and Quantities too numerous to mention,
all complete and in thorough working
order.
N.B. —Coaches leave Mudgee for Gulgong daily.
Catalogues on application to the Auctioneers,
M’EWEN & COX, Mudgee;
or, Messrs. MACNAMARA & SMITH, George
and Jamieson Streets, SYDNEY, Solicitors for
the Vendors.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
T this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.-Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal.- E. LENTHALL
OLDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria"
IKTIKT <3-
MACHIN
TALKS OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price—One Shilling.
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd.
INCORPORATED 18T0.
Directors:
Hon. G. THORNTON, M.L.O.
(Chairman.)
Dr. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO.
Hon. F. B. SUTTOR. -
Registered under the Companies
Act, 1890.
CHIEF OFFICE IN NEW SOUTH
WALES :
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES.
STRICTLY MUTUAL. ALL PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURRENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditions Liberal. Security Undoubted.
if. M. M‘CRAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
Taken as Cash all over the 'World.
The Cheque Bank Limited, London.
CAPITAL, £,500,000.
Established over 20 Years.
CHEQUE BANK CHEQUES:
FOR REMITTANCE OF MONEY to all parts of the World, are CHEAPER, and have
innumerable advantages over Ordinary Money Orders.
FOR TRAVELLERS the most convenient form of carrying money, and the most useful
Circular Notes.
CASHED by upwards of 15,000 Banks all over the World, and by over 2200 Banks in
Great Britain.
Handbooks and all Information on Application.
SYDNEY AGENCY: JAMES MALCOLM,
56 Pitt Street (near Bridge-st.) General Agent for Australasia.
Travellers' Drafts.
Circular Notes,
Money Orders,
WE PAY HIGHEST PRICES I'S CASH fob
KANGAROO SKINS,
GEO. WILCOX & CO.,
9 Young Street,
CIRCULAR QUAY,
SYDNEY.
WALLABY SKINS,
RABBIT SKINS,
OPOSSUM &, BEAR SKINS.
NO COMMISSIONS DEDUCTED.
PAYMENT RETURNED SAME DAY SKINS RECEIVED.
THE
* Plum ’
pm
THE
‘ Plum’
ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
X Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we,
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for'
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
| Sing e Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price |gj n> ,] e rtazor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities loi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers' Letters of Credit.
I )rafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
ZtHE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £6,000,000
Paid-up . .. .. £3,955,381 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman ; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
iNsrECTORs: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
11. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OI.D BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M’Cutchron, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J. P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. 0. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 li ish op sc/ ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - i>7B GEORGE STHKIOT.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Broken Hill, Hay market, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcast e; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
The royal bank of Queensland
(.Limited).
Head Office—Queei Street, Brisbane.
CATITAL PAID-UP .. ... £366,358
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 30,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The national bank of austra
LASIA Ltd.
tnco porated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. .. £4,000,000
Capiat Paid-up £1,557,392 3 0
Preferei ce Shares Fairt-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 192,607 17 t)
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 751,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoiia.
Directors: Chairman, Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Vioe-Clia.ii man, A. S. King, Esq. John .Gripe, Esc.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Auditors: W. H. Tuckett, Esq.;
Andrew Buri s, Esq. Clinf Manager: Francis Grey Smith.
South Australia (Adelaide*, with Branches throughout
South Australi i. Local Directors: Caleb Peacock, Esq.,
J.P.; John Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison.
New South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. VV. Oswald.
The Trustees, Executors, <4; Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £88,477 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No; 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estates undertaken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
- the
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS.
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom
Directors in New South Wales:
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,750,000.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS since commencement of the
Society exceeds
Twenty-one Millions sterling (£21,000,000),
Being an “average of a MILLION for each year of its
T. JAQUES MARTIN, General Manager.
Money to liend.
FCKTHEU REDUCED BATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pr»
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every ,£1 to £lO
sd. per month for every pound over i!10
4d. per month for every pound over ,£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.


CITIZENS’ LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY, Ltd
Head Office: - 21, 23 25 CASTLEBEAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(with Agencies throughout the Colonies).
DIRECTORS :
JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq., Managing Director.
W. J. LYNE, Esq., M.P.
E. COEEEE, Esq.
JOHN SEE, Esq.. M.P.
F. B. FKEEHjLLL, Esq., M.A.
J. J. POWER, Esq., M.B.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER'.
M. J. CLUNE, Esq., M.D., 18 College Street, Sydney.
BANKERS'.
THE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
ACTUARY }
WM. R. DOVEY, F.F.A.
Avditors:
Sib W. P. MANNING; FARQUHAR A. MACQUEEN.
GENERAZ SECRETARY:
JOHN J. GARY AN, F.S.S.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Resident Secretary : ARTHUR M. EEDY.
56 ST. JOHN STREET, LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND :
CITIZENS’ BUILDINGS, 210 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Resident Secretary : JOHN EARRELL.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
8 KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
Resident Secretary: P. J. O’DRISCOLL.
NEW ZEALAND :
CUSTOM HOUSE QUAY, WELLINGTON.
Acting Resident Secretary : JAMES F. LANE.
WEST AUSTRALIA :
HAY AND BARRACK STREETS, PERTH.
Resident Secretary : CHAS. F. EVESTON.
Messrs.
AGENCY IN GREAT BRITAIN EOR THE COLLECTION OF PREMIUMS :
FRANK L. H. COLLINS & SONS, 76 & 77 CHFAPSIDFLONDON , F.C.
Report on. tHe Valuation ets at 31st December, 1895.
Gentlemen,—
I have now to report that, in accordance with the usage of the Company, the Annual Valuation
has been made of its liabilities in both Branches, as at 31st December last.
The rate of interest earned in the two Branches during the period, 1893 to 1895 inclusive, calcu-
lated on the mean of the funds in each year, has been as follows:
The decline in interest in 1895 in the Ordinary Branch will, in all probability, be largely recovered
In 1896. It will be seen, however, that the rates now earned are fully satisfactory, when viewed in
connection with those employed in the calculations.
During the past year the mortality in both Branches has been very favorable in respect of the
number of deaths, but in the Ordinary Branch a portion of the claims having occurred under policies
of more than average amount, the profit for the year from the light death-rate is not, relatively, so
great as in 1894.
The brief particulars of policies dealt with in the Valuation were as follows :
Before referring to the details, it may be mentioned that the two Branches of the business,
possessing, as they do, radical differences, and being managed on dissimilar lines, have been valued by
separate methods, as in 1894. In dealing actuarially with the affairs of a comparatively young Office,
the fact cannot be lost sight of that while the first nine or ten years of an Ordinary Life Assurance
Company may be fairly profitable, in the case of an Industrial Office, the hea,vy cost of obtaining the
new business, and the heavy lapse rate invariably experienced, make it impossible to obtain more than
very small returns in the corresponding period.
The work involved has been very laborious, requiring the protracted labor of the actuarial and
statistical staffs, assisted by a number of temporary clerks, and latterly supplemented with clerical aid
from other departments of the Office. I have pleasure in recording the zeal that has been shown in
carrying out the undertaking.
Industrial Branch.
The pla.» of keeping up a carefully elaborated system of schedules for valuation purposes, referred
to in my last Report, has worked very satisfactorily during the year. Month by month the particulars
of the policies in force are obtained under each Table in the precise form requisite for the calculations,
and enabling the liability in respect of the various classes of contracts to be calculated with equal
accuracy, and much less work than if the particulars had to be obtained afresh on each occasion from
the Office books. It is contemplated adapting the system to the Ordinary Branch during the present
year.
The valuation has been made on the lines adopted in 1894, viz., the English Life Table No. 3,
Males, combined with 4 per cent, interest, the premiums valued being the gross premiums, less 35 per
cent., for all Whole-of-Life Assurances, and less 35 to 37£ per cent, for Endowment Assurances, varying
according to the future duration of the risks. It may be remarked that while the basis is the same as
twelve months previously, it has been somewhat stronger in its effects on this occasion owing to the
higher average durations of the policies, bringing a number into liability which had none at the in-
vestigation of 1894.
throu°hout U ° US and Annuities were used, and negative values were carefully excluded
The basis of the Industrial Valuation is, I believe, fully as severe as has ever been submitted to by
any .British industrial Office of equal age. *
The largest class of transactions are policies for the whole term of life, regarding which thn
remarks made in my last report, apply with equal force now. There has been, dunn» 1895 an
increased issue of limited-payment policies, in consequence, no doubt, of the special benefits con-
ferred in connection with this class, of fixed paid-up policies on a liberal scale. Endowment
Assurances have decreased m number and premiums, the amount assured showing an increase due
to the future average duration of the risks having been considerably extended during the Tear bv
J 6 ™ 1 P ° llCieS fol ' l6 ? gth J P enods ' Semi-endowments have increased in numbfr fromTo 659
to 13,020, the sums assured and premiums showing a somewhat smaller ratio of growth The bulk
of these transactions are of very recent date. S Ul * xne DIUK
With regard to the class of Endowment Policies under Table “B ” the valuation v,no ui a
the hues of the previous one, the liability being arrived at by accumulating all p emiums reined
after the first twelve months of each policy’s existence at 4 per cent, compound interest aS
allowance being made for discontinuances which, however, does not affect the old pohcies The
number in force has decreased from 19,684, assuring ,£405 737 4 S id wit-h i • *
.£3l 729 15s to If) 445
mu ’ vi. •!?i assuring &54U,020 os. 10d., and with a premium income of i7 a
The liability has somewhat increased during the year, and stands at =£l2s 731 17s M ’ 1> P7s i Bd>
ever, now at its highest point, and will show a diminution at the end of 1896 1S ’
Policies under the new Table “F ” having onlv been in evUfer,™ „ ™ A ,
n^owme,l^s main benefits being payable 45 years from entry-Lve no
mf„tion“'hei
per cent, while the allowance For t£™luS‘onrSSs fcl, bee " by 77
of the business has been most materially strengthened and the oS n J" ■ *’ thlS de P artment
small degree the surpluses of future years. ° ’ 0 cban £ e promises to augment in no
Ordinary Branch.
rhe rapid growth of this Branch is illustrated by the fact that nntwithofo a • ,
lapse-rate in 1890, the addition to the policies in force during 1895 is dl fL g a V ather heav y
existing on the books four years ago. g 1S B reater than the whole number
In accordance with your desire to have this department ef v,,, • , .
strong footing, no policies have, on this occasion, been val ued bfratmTmf P laced 01 ? a n unassailably
higher than the age at entry, and the Valuation has been made by the Fl VT tIw 11 ™ 3 to * ? n ? year
premium basis. A further element of strength was introdneeH /fable on a strictly net
instead of 4 per cent., as heretofore. No lustralian Life "* So u° f lnte ? est a * 3J per cent.
instead of 4 per cent., as heretofore. No Australian LffeOffiofths Tv,° f inte !; eat afc P er cent,
stringent basis. Considering the youth of the Office thT vFw yet be ? n valued on an equally
unnecessarily severe, but the adoption of this new basfs wdl be nf T'? may b - e re ff by some as
bonus rate to the policy-holders in the future b ° f groat service m maintaining a high
premiums received at 3£ percent! Lmpound' interest COmputed by accumulating all the gross
the Assur^iSnd%^®«?{ta^i(^^^u? f r^M ,^ < fillSs , ?5 8 M^n/T' 03 * sd> and > -
JETTS!
year, on all participating policies, the remaining sum of K. 5 2s £l - 1 03 ; per cen
By the strengthening of the Ordinary Branoh V.mT J A ld * t<s be Carned forwa rd.
of the Industrial Branch, a very distinct ad redu , ction in th ® expenses
strength, which are most vital to the welfare of the office 1895 th ° Se elem ents of financial
The usual Ketums end Statistic tooho Colonial Goiemments a„ in course of preparation .
I am, Gentlemen, your Obedient Servant,
WM. R. DOVEY,
Aotuabt.
Sydney, 11th February, 1896.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
There is likely to be trouble between the Cricket
Council of Australasia and the ’96 Australian Eleven. The
Council undertakes no financial responsibility in connec-
tion with the tour, does not even offer to secure the
necessary bank overdraft to pay preliminary ex’s and
passage-money to England, but wants to have complete
control of the team. It has gone the length of appoint-
ing the executive committee of the team, which, if the
choice of captain falls on Harry Trott, will mean that
the committee will consist of three Victorians. Sydney
and Adelaide representatives are not likely to stand that.
Further, the Council has decided that the team shall have
minutes of all meetings kept to be produced to the cricket
legislators if necessary. What has the Council got to do
with the internal workings of the team, anyway? It
interfered when the last eleven came back, washed a deal
of dirty linen, and left matters practically “ as you were.”
* * * *
Joe Darling reached the summit of his ambition
In being- included in the Australian team. Joe was a
great college cricketer, but his father, the rich Adelaide
miller, sent him to the country and intended him for a
fanner. Twelve months of tilling the soil satisfied
Joseph, who returned to Adelaide and opened a cricket-
ware business, and vowed he would yet play for Australia.
Old John Darling, who was much incensed at first, gave
Joe a big cheque when he banged Richardson and co.
about last year, and has now fulfilled a promise to give
him ,£2OO if he were included in the Australian team.
* . * * *
Dear Bulletin,—lt is frequently asserted that
Giffen insisted on his brother Walter going to England last
trip, and now insists on Lyons. This is an error, as it is
very apparent that Giffen, although desirous of Lyons’
inclusion, did not take the initiative of getting a 14th
man tacked on to the team. Moreover, despite the con-
tinual “barracking” claim for the captaincy, I feel sure
(after H. Trott’s public assurance that he had no desire
for the unthankful billet) that the champion of living
cricketers, George Giffen, will be found leading the ’96
team to victory and—perks.— Hiawatha, Adelaide.
* * * *
“ Blondin ” Lyons showed what was left in
him the other day by driving up 195 in 85min. Blondin
swished everything—made his first 100 in 42min.
* * * *
Worrall came along with another sensation last
Saturday, bagging six St. Kilda wickets for 17 runs.
Carlton, who was emergency man with the last Vic. team
that visited Sydney, got 10 wickets for 40.
* * * *
Iredale, the N.S.W. batsman, is to be married
before going to England, and Donnan’s wife—sister to
Syd. Gregory—will go with them to England.
The Bulletin would like to see Eady save some
of his big scores until he reaches England. For instance,
182, not out (put up in Tas. last Saturday), _ would be
happily placed in Aus. v. All England.
The selection of that fourteenth man will be the
most trying and thankless job that ever selectors had.
Albert Trott, Turner, Lyons, Howell, C. M‘Leod, Worrall
—whichever of the first four is chosen a howl will be
raised by the supporters of the rest.
As soon as he was picked to represent Australia,
a certain member of the team was waited on by a lady,
who made him take the pledge.
* * » *
The Australian Cricket Council could not do
otherwise than approve of the sub-committee’s team, for
the said sub-committee was appointed by the Council ex-
pressly to pick the players. Therefore the Council could
not object to the team without stultifying its own pre-
vious act.
* * « *
Syd. Gregory, during the English tour, will be
correspondent to a Sydney daily.
* * * *
“R.E.M.” (G. 1.): (1) He is out. (2) If the
batsmen don’t cross, A is out. (3) Yes, if the ball is
pitched on the line of the wickets and keeps on the
wicket. Hasn’t your umpire a book of rules ?
* * * *
A member of the last Australian Eleven relates
that at one of the numerous banquets in their honor,
when there was much cheering in response to the senti-
ments of an orator, an eccentric member of the team
grabbed a hot joint and waved it around his head three
times, scattering the gravy on the assembled guests.
(How came that hot joint on the table at dessert? But it
is a good enough story.)
* * * *
Adelaide cricketers say that as a batsman Clem.
Hill is far superior to Joe Darling this season.
* * * »
Blackham has accompanied eight Australian
teams ’Ome as wicket-keeper.
* * * *
Vic. Leg. Ass., on the motion of Dunolly
Duggan, amended the Council Streets Betting Bill to
exempt racecourses registered by the V.R.C. from the
definition of a “ street.” This would legalise betting on
all metropolitan courses excepting Ascot and Richmond.
The Council did not agree to the amendment, and at time
of writing did not seem likely to. The V.R.C. already
has alarming powers, and to hand over the legislation
of betting to its control would be an astonishing instance
of trust in an irresponsible body already powerful and
careless enough ; and would probably postpone the advent
of the totalisator for a thousand years. The V.R.C. wants
the tote for revenue purposes—but the Duggan proviso
would do just as well. It is a singular commentary on
the Vic. Assembly that it overwhelmed Murray’s Tote Bill,
but accepted Duggan’s apotheosis of the V.R.C. as the
keeper of the country’s conscience on the gambling
question. But the Tote Bill was opposed by Ikey Mo
and Holy Joe in conjunction—a triumphant federation.
George Davis, member for Gippsland and Tim Swiveller,
opposed the Assembly proposal and made the V.R.C. very
* * * * *
The Suppression of Street-Betting Bill, intro-
duced into Vic. Assembly, was fathered by the t.R.C.,
and is really a knock at the proprietary clubs. How the
unregistered courses, which the V.R.C. hates like poison,
can be construed to mean “ streets ” it would be interest-
ing- to learn. The metropolitan club only wants betting
legalised on its own course and those of clubs under its
wing. The difference between gambling on a registered
and unregistered allotment isn’t apparent, but the object
of the bill is very much so.
* * * *
The old moss-grown objection to making turf-
inquiries public, on the ground that publicity would scare
evidence away, might be applied, with equal force, or
want of force, to every enquiry into every variety of'
scandal. No revelations would be brought, to light out-
side of the court-room if such delicate consideration were
shown for the feelings of witnesses. It is the rottenness
of racing which accounts for stewards sitting with closed
doors. Interested witnesses would give all the evidence
they now give under any circumstances, but the public
mustn’t he ir any part of it through the newspapers. The
public, of course, wouldn’t hear the worst of it, even if
reporters were present. Turf-reporters are, in a great
measure, suppressors of the awful truth, otherwise their
occupation would pretty soon be gone.
* * * *
A Sydney civil-servant has been engaged on a
“ system ” for two years, and still hopes to be able to beat
Ikey Mo, when he starts on the warpath. The only man
the writer ever knew whose system was guaranteed (by
himself) to knock the books every time, died in an
asylum. His declining days were spent in endeavouring
to discover the microbe of prickly-heat in the second
finger of his left hand.
* * * * •
The Vic. turf reform meeting was a miserable
fizzle. J. R. Cowell said reporters were admitted to a
turf enquiry at Oakleigh once, and they cross-examined
the jockeys who came forward as witnesses. Then T. C.
O’Brien told Gaunson, who proposed the abolition of
assumed names, that he could never have had a mother-
in-law. _ *
* * *
The old sixpenny-sealed-envelope game is again
in evidence. A person who’d expect a good tip for 6d.
would reckon on making a first-class win for a shilling
“ on the nod.”
* * *
Tattersall has offered Tas. Govt. £5OOO a yeai
for a local monopoly of the sweep business—consultation
crooks having already begun to infest Hobart. By the
way, it was not the pietists but the publicans, &c., who
drove Tatt. from Brisbane. They reckoned if he was out
of the wav more would be spent in beer and skittles.
* * * •
“ I live by honor.” —Bookmaker.
* * * *
Father Thos. Keating, whose death was caused
by a railway accident at Granville, Sydney, recently, was a
breeder of blood stock. His stallion, “ Lord of the Lake,”
two brood mares with foals at foot, a yearling colt and a
chestnut mare, have been announced for auction by the
Curator of Intestate Estates.
* * * *
Mr. S. Miller says paid stewards aren’t needed
at Flemington or Caulfield, the present stewards being
selected from a large racing body. Then he qualifies his
remarks by saying they can’t afford it. Precisely. Mr.
Miller said nothing about stewards who bet; who are
“ in” with jockevs, or who are afflicted with convenient
blindness ; nor did he compare paid men, who don’t bet,
with honorary men—some of whom do all sorts of things.
Flemington and Caulfield need stipendiaries as much as
the smaller clubs do, if not more.
* * * *
Many V.R.C. members are allegedly in favor of
paid stewards, but, “out of pure cussedness,” they
wouldn’t vote for Gaunson’s proposal. Old members
won’t be led by new ones.
v * * •
The tote will come along some dreary day when
people aren’t looking, and provide money for paid officials.
Also it will raise stakes and give clubs more money than
thev know what to do with.
• * * * *
The recent form of Lena, the Hobart Cup
winner, quite justified the price of 12 to 1 against her in a
field of seven, although the opposition was weak enough.
Mischief, who finished second, can’t stay a mile and a half
course, especially when the tail-end of it inclines upwards.
* * * *
The divided handicap, Oakleigh Plate and
Oakleigh Purse, were run in the same time, 1.8 3-4. Tub
Bulletin’s assertion that two-year-olds were the mos


Piles Cured.
Free samples, pamphlets of the new Cannalin
remedies, the latest and most successful .treat-
ment, forwarded to any part of the colonies on
pnlication to the depot for Australasia, —n
i-street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
Hannam and Co., of Queen’s Place, Sydney,
N.S.W. are advertising a portable atmospheric
shower which is a perfect boon to anyone re-
quiring a hot or cold bath at a moment s notice.
It is simple and perfect, requiring no fixing, and
is altogether the handiest t.i ng of its kind in Aus-
tralia. The Co. deserves g/eat credit for giving
tins country such facility to wash itself, and
tlie great unwashed are hereby advised to buy this
admirable invention.*
Evo’s “Fruit Salt.”- An M.D. (Edinb.) and
M.R.C.S., L.A.C. (London), writesl am
much pleased with your ‘lruit Salt, having
tried it on myself, x our theory and remarks are
most reasonable. Having nearly died of typhoid
when studying at college, being the only one out
of 10 who recovered, I mean to go in well for puri-
fying the blood. Though lam 63, 1 have not the
least doubt that it will be very serviceable to me.
Sold by all chemists and stores.*
The Golden West.
That Westralia will soon be the leading colony
ot the group is the opinion that is gradually being
xorced upon the world. History cannot furnish
such an example of growth as this colony has
shown during the last two years. A little while
ago the West was practically unknown : now the
country s praises are being sounded throughout
the universe. Capital and labor are pouring in
and the other colonies are being drained of their
youth, rhe finest productions of the day are now
procurable there, just as in the leading shops
ot George-street, Sydney. All stores in the colony
are stocked with Frossard’s Cavour Cigars, the
best cheapest, and most delicious smoke that the
world has ever seen. These cigars are medically
recommended, as, having the nicotine extracted in
vacuo, they are absolutely uninjurious, whilst re-
taining all the fragrance and aroma of the excellent
leaf employed in their manufacture. Frossard’s
Cavour Cigars are obtainable everywhere in
packets of 8 for Is. *
One day the week before last there
arrived in Sydney from foreign countries 42,800
sacks of wheat, 5800 sacks of corn, and 31,700 sacks
of flour.. Also, a Chinese steamer arrived the same
week with 5000 sacks of flour from the cheap leper
of the Flowery Land. Plainly there are good times
coming for the farmers and millers of N.S. Wales.
The leper, by the way, is a new competitor in the
flour business, and it will be interesting to watch
his progress. In the first 39 days of ’9G N.S.
Wales imported =£220,000 worth of farm produce,
against <£44,000 worth in the corresponding period
of ’95. As the province got through with the
smaller amount last year, this vast increase can’t
all be really wanted, and somebody must be
crushed out by the rush of competition. Also,
there is <£4500 per day more to be paid to the foreign
producer that there was last year, and as none of
the province’s exports are looking up to that ex-
tent it would be interesting to know where the
money is to come from.
No better soda-water is to be bought than
that produced by the Volcanic Soda-Water Co.,’of
Sydney. This co. imports natural carbonic acid,
compressed in cylinders, from the Eifel mountains
in Germany, where the gas bubbles up in vast
quantities out of extinct craters, and is purified by
passing through 300 ft. of water before it reaches
the surface. Consequently the trace of sulphurous
acid, which exists in almost all artificial carbonic
acid, is wholly absent. The water used in the
manufacturing process is carefully purified by the
use of the Chamberland-Pasteur filter, and the
result is a beautifully clear, brisk, sparkling fluid
which effervesces for a full half-hour after being
drawn, and is one of the most refreshing drinks
imaginable.*
The firm of J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd.,
has, since ’5B, been one of the best known of suc-
cessful manufacturing industries. Both at the
factory, Lane Cove River, and at the warehouse,
162 Clarence-st., Sydney, the employees receive a
share in the profits—a bonus—which secures their
interest and contributes to the co. ’s' success. The
co.’s leather being carefully prepared on modern
principles—only oak extract and wattle-bark are
used in tanning—comes out quite odorless, equal
to or better! than the best imported leather, and
much cheaper. Hence it is greatly prized by lead-
ing boot and shoe manufacturers. A special line
is the famous leather bolting ; 90 per cent, of the
leather belting used in N.S.W. comes from this
firm : it is the finest and steadiest running belting
in the market, and is exclusively used by the
N.S. W. Go vt., by al llarge industries, and by electric-
light stations. Other specialities are raw hide
belting, chiefly for iced-food machines ; patent
double-edged leather belting for driving dynamos ;
patent leather link belting, as used on the electric-
light at the harbor fortifications ; on the North
Shore electric trams ; in the Broken Hill mines.
Raw hide laces, better than other laces ; leather
hose, so popular on steamboats and railways ; sole
leather, engineers’ leathers, pump and hydraulic
leathers; special leathers for refrigerating
machinery; also best imported English and
American belting ; also every other kind of belt-
ing and every kind of leather ; in short, all and
every leather which can reflect credit on the
firm’s high reputation.*
The Equitable Life-Assurance Society of
the United States has been under examination by
the Insurance Department of the State of New
York, and the result of the investigation is
summed up by the superintendent, in his report to
the Legislature, in the following words “ The
examination has been of the most searching and
exhaustive character. The officers and directors
have given every facility to the department during
the progress of the examination. The securities
owned and held as collateral were examined and
counted. The cash was balanced and verified.
The same diligence and exacting care was applied
to all the categories of assets. The valuation of
the liabilities has been made in the most careful
way, nothing being taken for granted, and abso-
lutely independent computations being made in
every case. It affords me profound satisfaction to
find that all the affairs of this vast insurance cor-
poration are in a sound and prosperous condition.
The policy-holders of the Equitable may be satis-
fied that their interests are guarded by conscien-
tious and skilled officers and directors, whose
integrity is a guarantee of fidelity, and whose long
experience qualifies them to conduct the business
in a manner best calculated to conserve the true
interests of the policy-holders.” Mr. C. Carlisle
Taylor, for some years a member of the head-office
staff in New York, has recently been appointed
general manager in Australasia for the society. *
Mr. A W STEEL,
Member of Tattersall’s,
(133 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
Has some ESPECIALLY" GOOD information for the
V.R.C. AUTUMN MEETING.
The NEWMARKET HOP. and AUSTRALIAN CUP
“Double” only 10s., or the full selections (wired to any
address) for the 4 DAYS only 30s. SEND AT ONCE.
DISCRETIONARY investments
Over the above meeting as usual.
Mr. Steel is also once morp “in the field" (for this
meeting only) with his CELEBRATED
QUASI CERTITUDE INVESTMENTS.
Full Share, £100; 14-ahare, £25; £l2 10s.;
l-lOth-Sliare, £0 58. This is an opportunity that should
not be neglected, so join immediately.
Mr. Steel’s NEW AUTUMN CIRCULAR is sent
“ gratis” on application.
[J LAND'S
r
is
OF
MMM
35, New Oxford St., LONDON, W.C.
Boxes of Tricks, 4/-, 7/9, 13/6, to £lO.
Boxes of Puzzles, 4/“, 7 9> *3/6, 27,-, and 69/-.
Boxes of Card Tric.cs, 4/-, 7/9. •3/6, 25/', & 47/3«
Shadowgraphy (as performed by Trewey), with
apparatus complete, 5/-.
Book on Chapeaugraphy, or 25 Heads under one
Hat, «/3- . , , .. . .
Novelties in Conjuring Tricks from 6d. to £5O.
Grand Illustrated Catalogue, 6d. Supplement ol
Novelties id. All the above sent Post Free.
Photos from Life .
Beautiful Studies of Female Figures (draped and un-
draped), for Artists or Collectors, taken direct from
famous French and Italian LIVING models. Large
assortment, various positions, symmetrical figures. Abso-
lutely true to Nature. Exquisite sample photo., mounted
on special levelltd card, and price-list on receipt of 12d.
colonial stamps. Very uncommon ; truly life-like.
The Art Photo. Co.,
93 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MADAME PALMA
(SCIENTIFIC PALMIST),
18 Sydney Arcade, King Street, Sydnev.
Write or Call for Particulars.
Information can be supplied from an Impression or
Photograph of the Hand.
Numerous Testimonials from Celebrities and Others.
VOLCANIC
Soda Water
Is ABSOLUTELY PUKE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
The Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Co.,
Bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
i
1
MS
up-
si
wSSMm
■>llllllll
m
P
C]
l
IuStSI
I
:
iiiiunni
shim
tirrm
rtiiiiimi
I7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
“Ellis’ Kins-street Coffee Palace,” situated 6C
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. ECUS.
CHARLES WESTBROriI,
116 Pitt Stbkrt, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Original Cush Fielder.
C mmissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughout
the World.
STARTING PRICE—2O to 1 Limit on all Horse races.
Telegraphic Code— “ Westbrook, Sydney.’’ Telephone,
No. 1542.
RENOWNED PHYSICIANS, and even the
Public are so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S
MA.TXGO
that the afflicted need not hesitate to use it,
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young men.
Grlmault’s Matico does not cause stricture
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Agents: Elliott Bros., and Australian Drug Co.
A DVERTISING SOLICITOR, exceptional ability, large
experience throughout Australia and England, col-
lected more advts. than any other two canvassers in
Australia, seeks engagement to travel the colonies, in-
cluding Western Australia, or England, for first-class
publications only. All correspondence strictly confidential.
Address “ Canvasser,” Box SlO G.P.0., Melbourne.
*ATE«T
V/ICK REGULATOR
SCALE ONE FIFTH
BRANDTS "ANTI-CANDLE.”
A Kerosene Candle with new light
spreader, which increases light and pre-
vents blowing out. For Candlesticks and
Carriage Lamps. Entirely supersedes the
ordinary candle. 110 HOURS’ LIGHT
at a COST of ONE PENNY. Prices—ls
6d and 2s 6d. Postage 4d per pair
extra. Last for years.
JSgT'Genuine “ Primus” Kerosene Gas
Stove, no wick, atmospheric flame, 17s 6d
each. Glow Night Lamps, generate gas
out of kerosene, 200 hours’ light cost £d,
post free 2s 6d. BRANDT’S KEROSENE
PUMP Patent 5821 has no leather plunger,
which perishes in Kerosene (all imitations
have leather plungers). Post free, 2s.
All Storekeepers.
BRANDT BROS..
Lampmakers and Importers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Amusements-
JJER MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY
Sole Lessees .. Messrs. Woods & Marshall.
Manager ... Mr. Alfred Woods.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
The new, original, and sensational Australian drama, by
Kenneth Maekay, M.P., and Alfred Dampier, entitled,
“TO THE WEST.”
Popular Prioes of Admission. Box Plan at Nicholson’s
J. L. LE BRETON, Acting Manager.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson and
Musgrove.
LAST NIGHTS 1 LAST NIGHTS !
“THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.”
Commencing Sat., Feb. 22, Mr. POUNDS will appear for
Three Nights each in his original parts, Marco in “The
Gondoliers,” and Vincent in “ Ma Mie Rosette.”
No Free List. Prices as Usual. Early Doors, Is Extra.
rjIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. C. B. Westmacott.
Treasurer and Bus. Manager .. Mr. Frank Barnes.
SATURDAY, February 22, and EVERY EVENING 1
“The Enemy’s Camp.”
Prices—Ss, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Theatre. Booking
Fee, 6d.
QRITERION
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
Doors Open at 7.16 ; Commence at 8 ; Carriages, 10.20.
“ Good wine needs no bush."
Good plays need no puffing.
Every Evening since
“I’VE CALLED ABOUT A HAT”
And been so
“ MIXED ”
with
'SUCH A REMARKABLE FAMILY,"
And
LAUGHED UNTIL MY SIDES ACHED, I am to be
found in the front, row of the FAMILY CIRCLE, which is
only ONE SHILLING, and I go into ecstacies over
Ralph Roberts, Wilfred Shine,
And TALENTED COMPANY getting themselves
“ MTIXED »’
In THE THREE HATS.
Family Circle and Gallery, One Shilling; Stalls, Two
Shillings; Reserved Stalls, Three Shillings; Reserved
Dress Circle, 4/-. Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages, 10.20.
W. J. WILSON, Business Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Briuliant Success op
Mr. Marry Jtickards’ New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 Higu-Class Performers 6 0
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is; Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rpHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO.
yW" Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
LEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.'
Under the management of Mr. Dan Barry.
Magnificent Production!
OF THE THRILLING STAGE ROMANCE,
“ The Sixth Commandment! ”
Presented with most vivid realism by DAN BARRY'S
DRAMATIC COMPANY. Every Evening at 8.
Popular Prices— 2s, Is, and 6d.
DUNCAN MACALLUM, Agent.
JpRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
Sub-Lessees and Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boueicault.
TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT
Will be Presented
" 'The Notorious (Mrs. ( Ebbsmith”
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Rem oval PJotice.
NICHOLSON & CO.
Have Removed from tlie Corner King aiid George Streets, to their
New and Elegant Premises,
NEXT EQUITABLE BUILDING,
George-street, Sydney.
THE
Finest Piano & Music Warehouse in the Southern Hemisphere.
Note the New Address: Next Equitable Building 1 .
dangerous proved correct. Coil, after being badly
blocked, ran in a winner. Newhaven, who is reckoned
Coil’s superior, was also blocked and finished third.
* * * *
The N.S.W. gelding Paris has been entered for
all the big English handicaps at the opening of the season.
He will never get 7.8 again. Enthusiastic Australians
have killed his prospects as a racer.
* * * *
The puffs that Carbine, Carnage, and Trenton
got in London sporting papers were written by Aus-
tralians. The Sportsman’s Camage-Trenton article was
inked by Nat. Gould. Australians are patriots in sporting
matters only.
* * * »
Seven men bowled out a Sydney tote-proprietor
beautifully the other day. Each put ss. on a pony, and
when the printed card appeared the horse in question
was shown to be backed by one only. The bookie had a
bad time when the seven turned up, and an erst prize-
fighter was knocked into limbo during explanations.
* * » *
Horses weighted at under 7st. have only been
successful four times in Aus. Cup. Malua and Highborn
are the only pair that have won with over 9st.
'* * * *
Disparity, a most likely-looking Newmarket
outsider, is in great form, and has been picking up pre-
liminary oats under big weights. The only Fryingpan
(her sire) that ever won the event was Fortunatus.
* * * *
The Laundress party has hopes of annexing
the V.R.C. sprint a second time. Eight-ten should prove
a trifle too much. Her paper chance doesn’t look nearly
so attractive as that of at least half-a-dozen lower weighted
dashers. Aspen, the only dual winner of the New-
market, was favored by the weight each time—6st. 81b.
and 7st. 81b.
* * * *
The always highly-thought-of Dreamland may
come into favor ere the day for Aus. Cup, but at present
backers are chary. A horse with a record is preferred to
a going-to-be.
* * * i|e
Writes “ Scrip ” :
The Newmarket Handicap list will be much re-
duced by the 29th, but a great field is expceted to start.
The writer believes the unmentioned Idolator, who ran
third last year, will play a big part in the finish. So will
Disparity. The three-year-old, Thunderer, is not fit ;
Foliage has been backed right and left by Adelaide people,
but his owner hasn’t got a cent on him. He’s perhaps
the best horse extant over six furlongs, but he may not
start. As he isn’t entered for any other events at the
meeting the suspicion is justified. Apart from the fact
that Foliage may not run through forestalling, the writer
believes that there are only three in the race anyhow—
Idolator, Whakawatea and Disparity. If Foliage starts
the race is practically all over. The only outsider with
'any pretensions is Monard.
In a slow go any horse might win the Aus-
tralian Cup. At present, the writer believes that Elswick,
a seasoned horse, will take the stake. Of the three-year-
olds, he holds a most pronounced opinion about Waterfall.
Wallace could never give him 51b. Of the light weights,
Lord Richmond is undoubtedly the best. His brother,
Broken Hill, won two years ago with 7st. The really un-
known horses in the race are Dreamland and Chesterman.
* * * *
Martin, the Yankee cyclist, is having it all his
own way just now. Last Monday he won the Mile and
Five Miles scratch races at Auckland, the Mile Open Han-
dicap, and came second in the Half-mile Handicap. At
every distance he downed Pither, the M.L. champion, and
Harris, the English champion. If pace, stamina, and
cleverness constitute a champion, Martin fills the bill.
* * * »
Martin and Porta came to Australia together as
partners. But an accident, which broke Porta’s arm,
enabled Martin to beat Porta always, and when Porta got
well Martin still wanted to always start and always win.
So the partners dissolved. Just after which Porta, with
fierce gesticulations, announced to some friends, “ Mar-
tin ! Martin ! always Martin ! Martin always win ! Mar-
tin first! Porta second ! Martin first! Porta last! Always
Martin ! never Porta ! Why not Porta ! We shall see !”
.And they did see immediately—Porta downed Martin and
Pither in the International mile.
* * * *
Martin, say Australian cyclists, is the most
cunning rider on the track. He has won just about £lOO
in cash prizes in Australia, and is the man to back in any
scratch event where he meets the in-and-out scratch men.
* * * *
Wally Kerr, though only 25 years old, will
not cycle-race any more. His recent M.L. trip, he
says, was only undertaken to keep him in form for the
hoped-for trip to Greece. Now he has abandoned that
project and will stick strictly to biz.
The first interprovincial four-oar race, organised
by M.L. Association, takes place in May, on the Parra-
matta. M.L. has turned out no first-class men lately,
amateur rowing there being at present very amateur
indeed.
* * * *
It appears, on most trustworthy evidence, that
there is a hitch in the Harding-Stanbury arrangements
owing to Harding or Stanbury or Sullivan or Stanbury’s
backer or somebody else having done or not done some-
thing which ought not or ought to have been done, and,
as Stanbury himself lucidly explains, there is just now a
little confusion.
* * * *
That club-swinging-record affair coming on
shortly at Foley’s Athletic Hall will be about as sprightly
a game to watch as a mule-race of 500 miles with only one
mule racing. Fancy watching a man swinging clubs for
24 hours! It is only the brain of an athlete that could
conceive so drearily-monotonous a contract. Mrs. Brough,
with even her lovely calves on view, never swung the
clubs in “The Amazons” more than a few minutes.
* * * *
A scheme is afoot for a really big cycle factory
in Melbourne.
* * * *
Melb. cyclists, in view of recent collisions, are
agitating in favor of equestrians being compelled to carry
lights when riding in the suburbs at night-time !
# * * *
The Maharajah of Patiala has been snapping
up every available horse capable of galloping, and now
owns a queer lot of 600 good, bad, very bad, broken-down,
useless neddies, most of them Australian-bred.
* * * *
England, America, Italy, M.L., and every Aus-
tralian province will be represented at the forthcoming
March carnival of Sydney wheelmen —on the new cinder-
track at Sydney Agricultural Ground. The wheelmen, by
the way, have invested all their profits in the new grand-
stand to be erected on F. Webster’s estate.
• » * *
It came out in a Sydney police-court, the other
day, that a girl, 13 years old, owned and controlled the
movements of a racing-pony.


Aunt Mary’s Baking Powder
Greenfield and
Barraclough,
Spectacle Makers,
371 GEORGE STREET 371
(A.J.S. Bank-buildings, near King Street, SYDNEY).
Sir SAMUEL GRIFFITH, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice,
Queensland, writes:—“l have much pleasure in saying
that you are entirely at liberty to make use of my name
in certifying to your being competent Ophthalmic
Opticians, in whom the public may place confidence.'
Siffht Examined Free of Charge.
Rheumatism
AND PILES CURED BY
AYER’S SARSAPARILLA.
Mr. W. Jennings, Adelaide, S. A., formerly
of Hawthorn, near Melbourne,
Vic., writes:
"For the past 3 or 4 years, I have been a
great sufferer from rheumatism and piles.
I tried all sorts of medicines, hut derived
no good from them. I chanced to read one
of your books and thought 1 would give
your Sarsaparilla a trial. I did so, and alter
taking one bottle I felt better, and after
taking 4 bottles I was a new man. I was
sorry I never took it before, for it would
have saved me very much pain. ”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Has cured others, will cure you.
Made by Dr. J.C.Ayer & Co., Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A.
MEL
F
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents.—Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell &Co., Ltd.
BE A UTIE UL EL OWE B S
—AT —
SEARL’S,
SYDNEY’S FLORISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long.*
m
1207
124
372
1203
403
126
125,
127
I 0
234
078
56
57
—THE-
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest & Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A VSTRALIAN
NEEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234—3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
WITH THE
JOHN
ojeas
1/5 1/6 & 1/9 PER LB
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
\
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HONHEUE.
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Borsdorff & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
-BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
and at
Adelaide & Hobart.
Trade Mark.
ED
%
*r.
j
7T
fl
S 3
C>
sP
*
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food hr
infants 1
9
Benger’s Food is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd,, and Tbe Australian
DrugCo„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
k AND
The aced.
“Sir” John M‘lntyre also responded for the Legislative |
Assembly. He could not, he said, claim to be an Austra-
lian native, but he had done his share in producing adew
(laughter). —Report of the A.N.A. banquet at Melb.
Exhibition Building.
There are no “ women” in Barcaldine (Q.).
T’other day a “women’s meeting” was to have
been held in the local church. No one attended,
the fair ones loudly protesting that they were
“ ladies,” not “ women.” Of such is the Kingdom
of Outback !
In Stipendiary Giles’s opinion, bearded
prisoners should not be permitted to shave until
they emerge from the police-court process—then,
of course, many are shaved under compulsion. No
doubt identification may sometimes be eluded by
judicious use of the razor, but Mr. Giles’s preven-
tive theory could only apply to unbailed prisoners,
and those able to procure bail could still be
shaved, trimmed, or otherwise barbered beyond
identity. That is just the old appearance-nine-
points-of-the-law difficulty dished tip anew. .To
carry the P.M.’s theory to its illogical conclusion,
beardless prisoners should be compulsorily shaved
every day, and those with the Parkes brand of
hair should have their heads imprisoned in
specially-designed stocks to prevent their locks
from ruffling. And any person proved, on expert
examination, to have refrained from washing for a
period of, say, six months should be denied soap
and water until his case concludes.
A fine instance of the great art of identifi-
cation recently disturbed the peaceful town of
Parramatta. A year or two back a lady left
Parramatta for Perth (W. A.), and while there a
strange man tried to assassinate her husband with
a revolver. The police never captured him ; pro-
bably by walking fast he kept ahead of the tele-
fram containing his description, and so got away.
lately the lady came back to Parramatta on a
visit, and in the street one evening she caught
sight of a familiar face which she recognised imme-
diately. She rushed to the police-station with the
tale of the attempted murder at Perth, and the
police were started out in search of the criminal.
Presently one of them, a plain-clothes officer,
learned, to his amazement, that he was the man
wanted, so he gave up looking for himself and
returned to the office to report, and there the
wildly-excited lady identified him in the most
positive terms. Then an inspector told her that
the man in question had been looking for the
humble drunk and running in the disrespectful
small boy in Parramatta at the time of the
attempted crime in Perth, and talked to
her like a father generally. She had known
the policeman slightly during: her previous
residence at Parramatta, and simply fitted her
recollection of him to the event that was upper-
most in her mind, and if he had been an unknown
wanderer without a reliable alibi, her hard swearing
might easily have got him 14 years. A whole lot of
identifications have no doubt been built on the same
system. A man wants to remember the shadowy
figure that came suddenly round a corner and
“stoushed” him one dark night. He comes
across the dimly-remembered face of the man he
once saw going down a street on a runaway horse,
or shinning up a ladder at a fire, or eating peas
with a knife, or doing something else of an unusual
character —and he promptly identifies him because
there is a hazy recollection attached to his face,
and he assumes that it is the recollection that is
uppermost in his own confused intellect. If the
average man only ponders long enough over the
small, red-headed man with bow legs, who
snatched his watch in Valparaiso years ago, he is
capable of positively identifying G. R. Dibbs as
the criminal, simply because he once saw Dibbs on
a platform in a badly-lighted hall, or caught a
glimpse of him when he was in full blast in the
Savings Bank.
Jacky Jacky was on his first trip from the
station into civilised country, and his boss had
already given him three lessons in etiquette. A
Hergott Springs the dinner-table was crowded
and Jacky was hungry. Leave some for
manners, Jacky,” whispered the squatter. Laal
that pfeller,” said Jacky, let the cook along
himse’f.”
A7OUNG Gent, correspond elderly Widow,
Y means, view matrimony. G. M , Post-office,
Paddington.
In Yic. Education Department School
Paper, No. 1, the only thoroughly Australian
item in its 16 pp. of extracts is Kendall s Song of
the Cattle-Hunters.”
THE PART PRODUCER.
Critics wondered for a season
What on earth could be the reason
Of the “ honor ” paid to Jocky M‘lntyre,
What service was requited
When that gentleman got knighted !
But further it were needless to enquire.
Though not himself a native
He’s a genius creative,
And an honor to the name his offspring bear,
For, in aiding and abetting
Young Australians begetting,
He has handsomely contributed his share.
As an enterprising father
Mac. has done his duty, rather !
He was long ago a hero of renown,
And his patriotic labors
Were admitted by the neighbors
Every time a little stranger came to town.
His fame waxed more resplendent
With the birth of each descendant,
And Her Gracious kept his services in view,
Till at last friend Mac., delighted,
For his children’s sake was knighted, „
To encourage free “ production of a few.”


§§c; ;
ygggil
m ■
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HERBAL
ALFALINE REMEDIES
(Registered)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and Nerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES, BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OVER 10 YEARS,
AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS
List of the JLlfaJiiie Remedies.
Vitality Restored
ALPALINE
VITALITY PILLS
Are the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Austra-
lian public for many years, and stood a test which
may well be envied by all other manufacturers of
similar remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bility, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— l/- 3/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Special Double course,
43 6 ; ordinary course, 23/6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
mid 3/-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -Boxes, 23/6,
12/-, 6/-, and 3/-.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43 6, 23/6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder-Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Injection Powder— Cures the Whites,
boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— Boxes, 6/- and
3 -.
Altaline Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, 1/- and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 1,6
Alfaline Bath Tablets -Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lates the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/-; posted, 1/6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c., &c.
Blood Purified
ALF ALINE
LOCK CURE FILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonic-
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It is not the usual Mercury remedy,
but a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALF ALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint be im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rassmussen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices.—With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/-
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
Important.
*3T ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus —PROPRIETOR, Box 208, Genebal Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
* WARNING.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should
always obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlet
sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or to his Branches.
Selected Testimonials.
Nerves Cured
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
ICO Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir—l have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, I consider you are deserving of success,
wmeh, I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmusskn. —Dear Sir,—l think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmusskn,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later: —“The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill ; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about GO miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wish Fulfilled
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmusskn.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly,
N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen,
I atn pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Look Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
reconftnend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year of 1871 I was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills ; since then I have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully.
JOHN KEAY.
Witness : Edward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness : John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh - street,
Sydney.
A. 'Valualble Free Book.
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuable
information, and n any useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality, as well as
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will be
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of testi-
monials, as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office:
547 George St., Sydney.
AND AT HIS INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
Melbourne: 150 Bourhe Street
Adelaide: 151 Bundle Street
Brisbane: 160 Queen Street
N'Z. : 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
West Australia: Corner Hay and William Streets , Berth.


FATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
Newmarket H.
RUN AT MELBOURNE!
29th EEBRUARY.
50,000 Subscribers
at 10.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
■
Shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
Qawkesbiiry Q.
RUN AT ROSEHILL
21st MARCH.
50,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
BANK OF VAN DIEMEN’S LAND.
Grand Lottery.
SANCTIONED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT OF TASMANIA, 57 VIC., No. 2, 1893.
SECOND DISTRIBUTION OP PROPERTIES,
Total Value, £50,000.
—IN—
-200,000 Tickets at Five Shillings (55.) Each.
The SECOND DISTRIBUTION of PROPERTIES, authorised under the Lottery Aok,
will include the following
MAGNIFICENT PRIZES !
Prize. Value.
1. Orient Hotel ... ... ... £13,500
2. Bank Premises, Launceston ... 8,000
3. Bank Premises, Devonport ... 5,000
4. Orchard, Glenorchy ... ... 4,000
5. All Nations Hotel, Zeehan, let at
rental £220 ... ... ... 3,000
6. Royal Exchange Hotel, Zeehan, let
at rental <£2oo ... ... ... 2,500
7. Store, Orchard, etc., Huonville ... 2,250
8. Meadow banks Estate ... ... 2,000
9. Federal Hotel, Zeehan; or cash less
10 per cent. ...» ... ... 1,500
10. Residence, 18 rooms (weatherboard,
Don; or cash less 10 per cent. ... 1,000
11. Hall and Offices, Zeehan ; or cash
less 10 per cent. ... ... ... 500
12. Orchard, Huon ... ... ... 450
13. Cottage, Launceston ... ... 400
14. Cottage, Hobart ... ... ... 300
15. 214 Acres Land, Castra ... ... 300
16. Cottage, Forth ... ... ... 250
17. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 220
18. 74 Acres Lands, Cumberland ... 210
19. Cottage and 30 Acres Land, Ship-
wright’s Point ... ... ... 200
20. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
21. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
22. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
23. Building Site, Bellerive ... ... 200
24. Cottage, Launceston ... ... 200
25 to 29. Five Allotments, Hobart—
■£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
30 to 34. Five Allotments, Hobart—
.£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
35 to 44. Ten Allotments, Penguin—
£so each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
45 and 46. Two Cottages, Don —£50
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
47 and 48. Two Cottages, Don—£so
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
Prize. Value.
49. One Cottage, Don—<£so, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... .£5O
50. Two Stables, Don— £so, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 50
51. Allotment, Turton-street, Devonport
.£5O, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 60
52. Allotment, Northam—<£so, or cash
less 10 per cent. ... ... ... 60
53 and 54. Two Building Allotments,
Launceston—<£so each, or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 100
55 to 58. Four Cottages, Don —£2s each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 100
59 to 61. Three Cottages, Don —£25 each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 75
62 to 66. Five Allotments, Latrobe—.£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 125
67 to 70. Four Allotments, Leith —.£25
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
71 to 74. Four Allotments, Penguin—
<£2s each, or cash less 10 per cent. 100
75 to 124. Fifty |-Acre Lots, Strahan—
<£lo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
125 to 145. Twenty-one Building Lots,
Don— £5 each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ... ... ... ... 105
146 to 168. Twenty-three Building Lots,
Don—<£s each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ... ... ... ... H 5
169 to 188. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don —
£5 each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
189 to 208. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don—
<£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
209 to 224. Sixteen 1-Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 80
.£50,080
In the event of the total number of tickets not being SOLD, the Drawing will take place
pro rata, and a proportionate number of the alternative Cash Prizes will be included in
such drawing.
TO TATTERSALL—
Please allot me shares
in the above Lottery.
Name
Address
Australian C.
RUN AT MELBOURNE
3rd MARCH.
50,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
Sydney C.
RUN AT RAND WICK
6th APRIL.
25,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
N ame
Address
£
MELBOURNE 0.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares in
the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular


Announcement;
For
Infants, Children,
™ Invalids.
A Complete Food in Itself.
Recommended by the Highest Medical Authorities
throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
FOR THE DESTRUCTION
OF ALL
Insect Pests,
KRUSE’S
Insecticide
Is the ONLY RELIABLE Agent.
CERTAIN in ACTION. QUICK in RESULTS.
Is quite Harmless to Animal Life, and can
with perfect Safety be applied to Dogs,
Cats, Poultry, &c.
Preserves Clothing from the ravages of the Moth.
Destroys Aphis and Vine Caterpillar.
Far more effectual than Tobacco Smoke in
Ferneries.
BEWARE OF USELESS IMITATIONS,
and see that you get
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE.
In TINS at Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., & 10s. each.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
529 George St.,
(D NEAR LIVERPOOL ST.
OILS.
Paper-hangings.
p aints.
°“ld,
'n
Ss
£
O
%
cP
ARTISTS’
DEPOT.
Window
Decorations.
Plate & Sheet Glass
Polar Refrigerating 1 Paint reduces the heat
in buildings from 40° to 50°.
H. H. Groth, Junr., & Co.
529 George Street, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect in
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
which so favorably
distinguishes the
present style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearing C. B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents- J. E. NEWPORT «ft SONS,
Chisholm Lane, Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
.A_.
19
A.. 3VE A R. K S,
HAIRDRESSER,
Hunter Street, City,
Wishes to intimate to his numerous custome.s
that, in addition to the above, he has just started
a High-class CIGAR and TOBACCONIST
STORE, next Empire Hotel, Hunter-street.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
111 Try It
CAFILLARINE!
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10 <>
Sole Agents:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
to use
BB9*'
NEVE*
INDING
KROPP
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades.
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW»GROUNP
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garrett
& Co., London, W.
RAZOR
mss-
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Cool and Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, ftc.
And preserves the THE SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually than any other preparation.
It is delightfully Cooltno and Refreshing if applied to
the Face or Hands after being out in the Sun, Tennis-
playing Yachting, Ac. It removes all Heat and Initation
caused by the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightlul.
Price iii England, Is. &2s. 6d. Sole Makers:
M BEETKAMA SON, Chemists. Fiig^snfh
FELTON, GRIMYVADE & Co, M! bourne,
ELLIOTT EROS., Sydney.
rpHE CLOSING - OUT SALE
—AT—
FIOTEY, ISLES & CO.’S
WILL BE
Continued Until Further Notice.
ALL OPEN STOCK WILL BE CLOSED
OUT TO MAKE ROOM FOR NEW
GOODS.
Call Early, and Secure the Pick.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.,
BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
LONDON.
DEBT COLLECTING.
The Victorian Debt Collecting Agency
101 Swanston St., Melbourne,
Recovers Debts on behalf of Mercantile firms, Professional
men, etc., by a Thoroughly Organised and Effective
System.
Highest References. Correspondence Invited.
w
HOLDSWORTH & CO-
-101 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
HO’S MAKING THE PACE
IN THE
Bedstead, Bedding,
AND
WOVE-WIRE MATTRASS TRADE?
Why,
Established
over
30 years.
1 j (Zawler & (Sons,
( 612 Georgestreet, Sydney.
Telephone,
No. 66.
And the reason WHY ?
Because
Healthy Bedding being absolutely essential to
cheerful health and length of years, the only quality
they manufacture is the very purest and best.
&ST For All-round Value, LAWLER’S are not to
t3T No ORDER too small or CONTRACT too
large.
£2P Contents of LAWLER’S Mattrasses guaran-
teed as represented.
&3T Orders executed prompt to time.
You will never sleep soundly, and in the morn-
ing rise vigorous and refreshed, unless you procure
your Bedstead, Wire Mattrasses and Bedding
from
LAWLER & SONS,
612 George-street, SYDNEY.
James Carroll,
SWORN VALUATOR,
Land and Income-Tax Adjuster,
Argent Chambers, 19 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
Valuations made ; Income Schedules prepared ;
Appeals against Excessive Assessments conducted.
R. P. MORTON,
Special Shirt Maker
And MERCER,
STRAND,
195 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
-THE—
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Has been THOROUGHLY RENOVATED and
RE-FURNISHED,
And I am NOW READY to RECEIVE my
Old and New Friends.
Thos. Asclie
(late of Royal Hotel),
PROPRIETOR.
rji n E “OZONE,”
WARRNAMBOOL, VICTORIA.
The Coolest Seaside Itesort of Australia.
Testimonial, July 2,1895. —“ Have spent a very plea-
sant ten days at VVarrnatnbool, and are delighted at the
town and your excellent hotel, the Ozone, where we
have received every attention. Were the qualities of the
place known, many visitors from Sydney, who now go to
Tasmania, would certainly come here.”—Mr. and Mrs.
Denison Miller, Sydney, N.S. W.
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
BALMORAL HOUSE
Is the most centrally-situated for sight-seeing in
this delightful and bracing climate. Visitors and
invalids will find every home comfort, excellent
table and attendance. Terms—2 guineas ; 8/- per
day. Private suites, 3 guineas. Apply Manager.
SALISBURY HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
Private Soar ding Establishment,
(Within Three Minutts of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONS Visitors. SPECIAL
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
Publications
Under the patronage of Ilig Excellency the Governor
Noted for Celebrities:
TA-LIVCA & CO.,
—Artist Photographers—
-119 Swanston Street (opp. Town Hall),
MELBOURNE.
Paris Panels, 20/- per doz.; Cabinets, 15/-
rptlE New ‘Albert »
Accordeons, two full sets of
reeds, DOUBLE action, Price 21/—.
Same, superior tone and finish,
25/-. The New AUTOIIARP-any
person can play this instrument,
or vamp his own accompaniments
to thousands of songs, without
any knowledge of music whatever
Price, with 3 Pedals, 2 books of
tunes, &e., 15/-; Superior tone and
finish, with 6 Major and Minor
pedals, 25/-. Post Free. The ‘PHOE-
NIX ’ Organette (for pieces, hymns
or dances, worked by the handle).
Best, strong and Sweetest Music
in the world—a child can play it. Price, with 6 popular
tunes, 25/-; large size, 55/-. Only at J. ALBERT &
SON, 118 King Street, SYDNEY". Violin, mandoline,
guitar, banjo, cornet, anglo, and concertina catalogue for-
warded Free. NOTICE. —Messrs. J. Albert & Son are
the only musicsellers in Australia charging for all Two
Shilling Pieces, songs and waltzes at 1/9, post FREE.
TTENRY PARMER’S Operatic Selections (or VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
THE GOVERNMENT
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
STANDARD
Send for free prospectus
containing* specimen
pages, illustrations and
full particulars
C.&C.MerriamCo,
Publishers,
40 Hunter St.,
Sydney.
4
SECRETS OF NATURE
REVEALED.
Book of Nature.
Guide Marriage Life and Relations of the Sexes,
contains 50 engravings, full and explicit explanation of
the structure and uses of the organs of life and generation
in mankind ; Marriage, its uses and abuses, the rights
and wrongs of Marriage, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, by Dr. L. M. Byrn, 3/6 ; post,
if: Decameron, 3/-. Heptameron, 3/-. Radical Remedy
in Social Science, regulating reproduction, with hints on
matters important, necessary to be known by the married,
1/- ; post, 1/2. Artistotle, complete Midwifery, colored
plates, 3,6 ; post, 4/-. Venus and Adonis, 1/6. Girl with
three pair stays, 1/-; post, 1/3. Rosario, the female
Monk, 2/-. “ Amours of Gustave,” from the French, 1/-;
post, L/3. Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, self-defence without a teacher, Is. Rabelais, 2/6 ;
post, 3/-.
"A Fatal Sin,” by Balzac, 1/6, post free. The
Devil in Sydney, or Barmaids, Baldheads, Mashers, etc.,
1/-1 by post, 1/2. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free, 7,6; send for pamphlet giving full contents Plain
Home Talk, post free. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it
should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, postl/2. Wonderful Song
Book, extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought R« ad-
ing, Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated, price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1,6.
‘‘The Silent Friend,” illustrated private medical book,
invaluable to all, by Dr. Lamartine, 1, 6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and publio
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
Can you afford to have a large family? Read the
Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted book, “ Fruits of Philo-
sophy," 1/-; post, 1/2. “ Romance of a Fair Girl’s Bath-
room,” 1/6, post free. Male Generative Organs, in health
and disease, from infancy to old age, with the treatment
of all their derangements, for every man’s own private
use ; illustrated by m merous engravings and colored
plates, by Dr. Hollick, M.D. ; new revised Australian
edition, 2,6, post free. 3Ft. BEA.R. Cheap Book
Depot, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
GS-eo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photof/raphs of Enf/lish A Colonial Celebrities
A LONDON SUCCESS.
New Coon Song.
OH, HONEY, WILL YOU LUB DIS COON.
Pi ice, 6d.
Also, same price, the popular song, ‘‘LOVE’S VESPER
HOUR,” by Lindsay Lennox, and “LOVE’S VESPER
WALTZ,” by Then. Bonheur. 1000 other SONGS,
DANCES, etc., at 3d. EACH, of all Dealeis, or from
Publishers, IV. PAXTON A CO., 203 Svvanston-st.,
Melbourne, and 10 Oxford Street, London.
Catalogues Free.
:t£
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
Mdm. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
rjpo
COUNTRY NEWSPAPER PRO-
PRIETORS.
FOR SALE.
A quantity of Humorous
Electro Illustrations, singly
or in lots. Proof-sheets and particulars on appli
cation to
MANAGER, “ BULLETIN,”
24 Pitt S.reet, Sydney.
"One looks for the daily case of suioide as
naturally as for the leader!” — Daily paper,
The world just now is teeming
With folk, who, fondly dreaming
The after life
Is free from strife,
By poison, bullet, rope, or knife.
Anticipate it.
For long they deeply ponder
On what is over yonder,
Till, sorely tried,
They suicide,
And chance what’s on the other sido
Or under-rate it.
Some stay the last proceeding
For fear of not succeeding,
Because the law
Will bind them o’er
To keep the peace for evermore,
Or make them rue it 1
From those still contemplating,
Or who for means are waiting,
We’ll obviate
So sad a fate,
By briefly stating, while they wait.
The way to do it.
Now, everybody knows if
You fool with an explosive
There is a jar,
And then afar,
Upon some little twinkling star
You fall in pieces,
There’s never any warning—
No need to order mourning—
Ere you can wink,
Or even think,
You’ve reached, are on, and o’er the brink
At which life ceases.
It saves the cost of burial,
In fact, the job’s done very ill,
If folk can find
Two bits in kind,
To let your people keep in minu
You once were mortal ;
It’s better than cremating,
Or casing in lead plating,
You miss the squirms
Of sated worms,
And go direct to make your term
At heaven’s portal.
The flesh is weak—why vex it
By painful mode of exit ?
Take one good bite
Of dynamite,
And, when your things are settled quite,
Just set her going.
St. Peter’ll keep his eye on
The bits that get to Zion,
And what is “ Mowed,”
The other road
Will find, on reaching Nick’s abode,
Most careful stowing!
PONTE.
Since Melb. Argus started a “funny”
column on Saturdays, to the glory of little local
identities, its ordinary news matter is degenerat-
ing into puerile excuses for coming verses. This
sort of thing appears as intelligence from Ben-
digo: “Mr. D. B. Lazarus, M.L.A., is one of the
latest victims of cyclomania, and apparently he
has contracted the disease in its most virulent
form. In five weeks he mastered the art of
balancing, rode a few perspiring miles, and having
been laid by with plasters for several days through
a sharp encounter with some of surveyor Minto’s
road-metal, he emerged an accomplished cyclist.”
Then follows two inches of machine-made humor,
dealing with a bike journey in which Lazarus
aforesaid, “ George H. Hobson, the well-known
auctioneer,” and other historical personages dis-
tinguished themselves. Which paves the way for
a set of verses on Saturday, the burst of poetry
being based on the assumption that ‘ ‘ everybody
is talking ” about the Bendigo heroes, and expect-
ing them to be “ taken off ” in the weekly comic
column. The result can be imagined. Lazarus,
auctioneer Hobson, surveyor Minto and co.,
together with their envious personal friends, think
they have never read anything better in their
lives, and the general public says “ Damn ! ”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr ftassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.
Prof. Halford, of Melb. University, has
carefully tested the effects of music upon Aus-
tralian snakes. He bought a mouth-organ, and
his first victim was a tiger-snake, which resisted
the attack of the deadly instrument for half-an-
hour and was ultimately abandoned as a hopeless
case. Another reptile of the same species proved
equally intractable. Then the scientist got an
unfortunate “copper-head” into his power and
blew his organ untd the snake pleaded mutely for
mercy by coiling itself upon the table and pre-
tending to be dead. This ghastly experiment was
repeated next day, with a like result.


Dear Bulletin, — Re your two recent
parsr. about the South Sea Islands Nui and
Manhiki. Your correspondent is quite right
about the praying capacities of the people
of the former island; also, in the matter of
or ncon^nence * But they don’t drink kava
there—the tree doesn’t grow in the Ellice Group.
It is an awful thing now-a-days to live on an
island such as Nui, where the native teacher bosses
the community, although Kerisome, the Samoan
teacher at Nui, is a very decent old fellow, with
some fine daughters. When the missionaries first
planted the Seed in the Ellices, there were some
curious laws made to prevent unchastity. It must
be borne in mind that what is looked upon as a
serious offence in a married woman is regarded as
mere courtesy in a spinster. Indeed, a girl is just
as proud of her performances in Cupid’s arena
before marriage as a white society belle is fond of
telling how many dances she has attended. In
Funafuti, many years ago, the following scale of
fines was drawn up by the local Samoan teacher,
and solemnly passed by the kaupule, or town
council:—
Stealing- food
Non-attendance at church
Calling out “ May your father’s throat be baked,
and dogs eat your mother’s liver ! ”
Adultery with a married woman
~ „ single „
Incontinence on the Lord’s Day
Calling out “ Go to Hell ”
Incontinence by married man with a young girl
~ by single man
Same act by boy and girl—so cocoanuts
Fishing on Sunday
Laughing on Sunday
Smoking ~ in public
$l.OO
5.00
1.00
2.25
50
10.00
3.00
5.00
1.00
15.00
10.00
This teacher waxed fat, though some of his
daughters contributed largely to the church
revenues by their disregard of their father’s moral
ordinances. One of these damsels one day was
held up to public derision through the unkindly
act of a white trader who didn’t like his reverence,
the old man. The beauteous maid was listening
to love-vows under the trader’s whaleboat, which
was turned bottom-up—the bow and stern being
placed upon two thick logs. Old Paddy T. came
quietly out and pulled the logs away. Then he
sent for the town-crier and told him to call the
people together to see the wickedness of their
pastor’s daughter. They came, the teacher lead-
ing, with a stick in his hand. Old Paddy grinned
—but felt mad when the male culprit was found
to be his own half-caste son.— Mata Pa.
The other day at Casterton, Vic., an old-
man kangaroo attacked one O’Sullivan in his own
yard, and fought several rounds with him before
it could be hauled off. When taken to the hospital
O’Sullivan needed as much stitching as a patch-
work quilt. The writer once saw a kangaroo
attack a man fishing within the enclosure in
Ballarat Botanical Gardens, and, after a brief
tussle, the man escaped with a fragment of a
singlet about his neck, wearing one sleeve of his
shirt, and dragging the mangled remains of his
trousers after him by one leg. As a stripper the
kangaroo, in his excitable moments, has no living
equal.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. #
Dear Bulletin, —Re snakes swallowing
their young to protect them from impending
danger, it doesn’t matter a rap what Professor
This or Dr. That thinks or believes on this sub-
ject, as the simple fact remains that I, in Peb.,
’BB, at Coogee, saw a female black snake (Pseu-
dechis porphyriacus) swallow her young, killed
her, and actually took the young from her. This
little tinpot affectation of unbelief of facts proved
by an amateur naturalist to whom the great
majority of professors are indebted for corrections
and hints seems to me wofully thin and flat. I say
that certain genera of Australian snakes do swallow
their young as a means of temporary protection,
and my mere ipse dixit on this subject will be
accepted from one end of Australia to the other,
notwithstanding the irresponsible and unqualified
doubts of 10,000 professors.—l am, &c., H. J.
M'Cooey.
To Cure .Sore Throats
WOUNDS, BURNS, SORES, and all DISCHARGES, and for purifying drinking
„.. . „ water, use CONDY’S FLUID.
London FnSnnA 1 ?™ fi? ° f di , rectlo ? s ™ every bottle. Condy & Mitchell, of
Mmcion, England, are the sole makers. Insist on buying “DON i >Y'.< FI ,U rb.”
Use “ Condy’s Fluid.
THE PREMIER HOTEL OF AUSTRALIA.
/V
<?>
% ■5"
% 9-
/
m
— *■
m s
~V.;:
-t -■'*&£■• •‘SSM--~ *y v
“THE AUSTRALIA.”
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
CHARGES :
(Per Day)
Inclusive of all Meals and Attendance.
SINGLE ROOMS-
-12 6, 15/- & 167-
DOUBLE ROOMS-
-25/-, 30/-, 34/- & 3 67-
SUITE OF ROOMS-
-40/-, 50/- & 60/-
Special Rates to Permanent Boarders
from
£3 10 - PER WEEK.
Extract from Max O'Bell's Book
Impressions on the Colonies :—
“Sydney has as much right to be
11 \nid of this hotel as her harbor.”
/Fireproof Throughout.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
/
Hot and Cold Water in
every Room.
Lighted throughout by
Electricity.
y
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS
Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,"
specifics, etc., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing Manly Vigor in young or
old men. The Homeopathic Treatment cures in four weeks. All letters sent
sealed. Address, Dr. IRVING CO., 147 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. ROPE'S
EWER & BROOD
o\i|Vß\PN\^o
compound
MAKES NEW RICH BLOOD.
Has been proved by
Living Witnesses.
4
F you are troubled with Sick Headache, Loss of Appe-
tite, Constipation, Disorders of the Stomach, Liver
or Kidneys, take Dr. Hope’s Com-
pound. Do you feel Weak and
Debilitated, Ambitionless and
Depressed, then take Dr. Hope’s
Compound. It completely changes
the entire system by removing all
impurities, and Invigorating the
Exhausted and Debilitated con-
stitution.
There are no failures and no disap-
pointments. It acts gently, pleasantly
and quickly. For all Female Com-
plaints it has no equal on earth.
Gives Vigor and renewed strength to
the human system when deranged by
Overwork or Excesses.
It will cure you.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. PRICE, 3/6, BY POST, 4/-
Take Dr. Hope's. Compound in all eases of Nervous-
ness. Exh&usrion, Blood Disoidera, Liver, Kidney
and stomach Troubles and regain your former health
REPARED ONLY AT THE AUSTRALIAN APOTHECARIES’DISPENSARY.
5OO GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
m
/;
TAKE A LESSON FROM ME.
This is the way, girls never say nay, girls,
“ Beecham ” is better than wine.
Eyes will grow brighter, hearts will grow lighter,
Cheeks will grow blooming, like mine ;
I’m never dreary, moping, or weary ;
Study my picture, and see.
Do not think twice, girls —here’s my advice, girls—
“ Take a lesson from me.”
PE BDBIAU & CO.
Rubber Hose, Eureka Hose, Canvas Hose,
FOR
Gardens, Brewers, Steam, Suction,
Etc., Etc.
Tennis Balls, Rackets, Shoes, Sec.
ILLUSTRATED LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
Send for a Catalogue and
H. HILLIER, Manufacturer & Importer,
135 & 137 Sussex-street, Sydney.
The Best and Cheapest House in the Colony for Vehicles, Saddlery & Harness
ELEPTIC SPRING SULKIES (as shown) £7 15s
SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 395. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS £6 10s
AMERICAN SULKIES, 95s
““"wcftSSX efoSS M “ d6 equ “‘ * *>*««• Wo*.
FROZEN MEAT EXPORT.
they are now able to offer the very ties'forlw p ? Btoralists of Queensland thal
can have their stock treated onowner? account thei " f ur P lu s stock home. They
very best possible advantage in England by the SAME FIRM f G ad . stone ’ and disposed of to
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin will be most happy to take chaiS of m 5 t atcd at any of fche other works
and are sure that their charges, and especially the P ERSON A rt,Ho n lpm S °* n arrival in London
will give satisfaction. For full particulars apply AL attention given to each consignment
Messrs. Bergl & Brahhin
LONDON, LWERPOOL, etc, ENGLAND. * SYDNEV
W 1
IMPORTANT NOT TOP to r. tr.
„y* e IS.“ it™«„rK d e XX£Xw*~ «KS.„, c,
ciXL Sf''aii-x?: -x;w.o
supply tis with any of their American-made cigarettes unW US officlill '>(<tice that they will n ,
us for New South Wales fur the w„ r u„„ *, ™,. u ”“s? s we agree to relinquish the agency hel I t
n and H. 0. WILLS, Limited
us for New South'Walter the world - renowned E ngl i sh* h”rn7 oL\V @ o' 1 , OYV '
the manufacturers of those popular hio-h •■’ ari( - H. O.
TR-ftp r- a h,gl| - el;lss cigarettes known as
TIE3IIE2.IEIH] C^_STT,IH Ic p ?? cc
cig»,TtLXk d ,ui,"N d ix,u"x. i “!'„ atrsri * „ ter(S .,
““ whole of the oi B „« te thor.foXw“f'S“ KIX X to "'XX
- —**‘X:~X, ,d -»••“
’J*& ” 00 " Mmt u ““ ** -» 1.
And by smoking theso they „il, prevcßt any ouo
should or should not s'mnto 1 niiJ lng to dictate what people
HEYDE, TODMAN
„ ---- ww.^ p<l , 4l y iruilj
should or should not smoke
& CO. U aellls /„ ,r. z>. \,nu H. o. WILLS, La. |


One that
Speaks
For Itsel£
# -M
t f
1
f
|
4;
l
I
' r
I
. . „ And
. . . Commands
. . . Attention.
A Aew
■ LIPP
Style.
UOjt- i-
W. H. PALING & CO.
LIMITED,
338 GEOIIGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS for the FAMOUS PIANOS of
Steinway Sc Sons, Rich. Lipp Sc Son, John Brinsmead Sc Sons, Julius Feurich, Uebel Sc Lechleiter,
Erard Sc Co., Victor, etc., etc.
The Anatomy of Starvation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are three stages of starvation.
They must be endured to "be appreciated; they
could not be described. See ! if a man had no
eyes he could not appreciate vision. There is first
the great physiological stage : some scientist wrote
an octavo on the cat, he could write a library on
this. Those digestive juices (the saliva and the
pancreatic) crying out for work—something to act
on ; and the hard, hollow stomach. Mere physical
agony : the sustenanceless muscles and the starved
brain-cells.
I breakfasted on bread and water this morning
—I used to have warm boiled milk, but the milk-
man has taken his cue from the butcher and
stopped supplies. N.S.F.
God bless the little baker —he always stops last !
His name shall not be on the black-list at the
doom. It is coming.
As I walked home I endured that first stage :
the smell of the cheap eating-house against which
my nose once so vigorously used to revolt, was
now like the aroma of the ambrosial food of the
gods—aye, like the faint, sweet scent of hasheesh
(not hash-house). But the stale-cigar smell of the
gin-palace disgusted me. Four well-dressed, flash
snobs, half-tipsy, rolled 'out of one, and in his
drunken stupidity the drunkest bumped me. I
cursed him with a feeble curse, but I was weak.
* * * »
Then comes the awful psychological stage—
the broken spirit, the desperate mood. As I neared
home (ah ! it was one once ) a hungry phantom
preceded me. No, ’tis my weak retina —uncaused
by material objects. One gaunt spectre and three
little ones. I shall see them after I pass one, two,
three streets. Ah ! they shall have bread to-night
—but no milk. I shall be an anarchist. Never
in the history of the world was bomb thrown yet
that concessions did not follow ! That is the great
central truth. What daring genius with despera-
tion screwed to martyr-pitch first devised the great
idea? I have suffered in dumb, uncomplaining
stupidity—like the brainless cattle in a snow-
storm. If I take my life in my hand with the
bomb hundreds will be benefited. A man in some
old-world-part offered himself for vivisection if
the vivisectors would settle an annuity on his
wife and three children. He was a poor logician
—not an altruist either —a selfish hound.
Now the climax —the last street is passed. Not
a word from Annie or the elder children, but the
eyes of the youngest ask in an unmistakeable way
if there is the long-awaited news —“work”?
“ warm food ” ? Oh, the brutal No ! A real
downright good cry would do me good —but I am
too weak.
* * » *
And now the transcendental stage—everything
is shadow. My wife, the three little ones, this
foodlessness, are but dreams. Through my glisten-
ing eyeballs I see visions like that view of the
“ Eternal City ” which the old-time dreamer had
from the crest of the “Delectable Mountains.”
There is no real; everything is the puppet of the
senses. That is the greatest Truth. This stage
shall have a climax. “ Perchance to dream.”
Aye, and there shall be an awakening to which
the drunkard’s is but as an atom to the universe.
The haggard gaunt spectre and the three little
ones will become real again. Let your legislators
beware !
Sydney, 15/11/95.
O. HYLLIER.
D. T.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Murphy, licensed victualler, had drawn a
minor prize in a Tatt. sweep, and he had been
“on a fair bend ” for a week. The grog had got
on to his nerves, and there was a hand of iron
gripping the back of his neck. The doctor said
that it was “ cerebral congestion,” and that if Mr.
Murphy didn’t put the peg in there would be
trouble.
The publican, who had lain awake for nights,
went upstairs for an afternoon nap. He slept and
dreamed that a little red-bearded man entered the
apartment. He was attired in blue, and nodded
his head threateningly at the prone form of the
dreamer. “By Heavens ! ” said the azure appari-
tion, “ I’m going to give you a of a time !”
The sleeping publican went off into a cold sweat,
but he asked as truculently as he could, “ Who
the are you, anyhow ? ” “ Oh,” said the man
in blue, with a demoniac grin, “I’m one of the
blue devils, whe-e-e-e-e ! ”
The derisive laugh of the demon merged into
the 5 o’clock whistle at the foundry. The publican
awoke, looked fearfully round, and remarked with
fervent emphasis, “Thank God!” Then he
descended to the bar to scoop in the threepenny
pieces of the homeward-bound working-man.
He polished up a few glasses, yawned, gave a
bottle or two a * perfunctory push ; then a cus-
tomer entered, “ Pint o’ beer, please.”
The publican’s hand was on the beer-engine
when he glanced sharply at the customer. He
was red-bearded, and wore a blue serge suit and a
blue apron.
The customer’s lips moved—possibly uttering
some commonplace—but the publican could have
sworn his solemnest oath that he said, “ I’m going
to give you a h of a time !”
“The identical beggar who came into my
room,” mused the licensed victualler, as with
insane cunning he sneaked towards the free lunch
where a much-ground bread-knife lay temptingly.
He grasped the knife with a splendidly-acted
manifestation of unconcern ; then, fixing his
eye on a clear portion of the bar, he yelled to the
astonished customer, “ Give me a h of a time,
will you ? ” and vaulted the counter with the mur-
derous weapon in his hand.
The customer bolted up the street, Murphy
after him.
The customer was fleet of foot, otherwise it
would have been a case of murder and suicide ; as
it was, it was only suicide —“ suicide while under
the influence of temporary insanity.”
P.
Two trappers in the Bright district, Vic.,
have in two years sent by rail to Melb. market
54,000 rabbits, to Euroa Preserving Factory 16,000.
and skinned 5,000. That is, they have caught in
all 75,000 rabbits in twenty-four months.
The membrane of a hen’s egg has been
found the best medium for skin-grafting purposes
yet devised —far better than either human or
beast skin. The egg should be very fresh, and
the thin lining membrane of the shell carefully
extracted without yolk matter. Strips of mem-
brane should then be laid on the wound or granu-
lating surface with the inner or albuminous side
down. Egg-membrane is especially useful for
large and otherwise slow-healing burns on the
arm, foot, leg and body.
Two Men and a Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The second-mate of a small craft isn’t the
most highly-paid man afloat, but Ted, of the
Spray, was a steady fellow, and most of his wages
went straight to the hands of his adored and
adoring wife. Jennie was a grand housekeeper
and fond of Ted; so that the little cottage in
Yarradale was always a bright port and a snug
home-nest.
It was a bitter blow to Jennie when the Spray
was lost off the Chilian coast and Ted’s name was
not among the saved. It was hard, too, to sell up
the little home, take to one rented room, and earn
a pittance by needlework from the “ sweaters.”
No wonder that she presently listened to Flash
Jim, who drove a ’bus, and became his wife.
* * * *
In that part of Melbourne the sound of a
woman’s screams, one evening, caused no excite-
ment.
“Only Flash Jim hammering his old woman ! ”
said the casual hearer.
Inside, the sobs were translatable—
“ Don’t, Jim. You’ll kill me ! ”
“Then less mag, carn’t yer. I’ll teach yer to
have no tucker ready when I come home, blarst
yer! ”
A knock.
“ Come in, you, whoever y’are.”
A seafaring man entered and looked excitedly
around.
“ Well, wot d’yer want ? ”
But Jennie only screamed—“ Ted ! ”
“Why, Jennie,” said the new-comer, “what’s
this? ”
“ You, Ted ? You — alive!”
“ Yes ; didn’t you get my letter ? Why did you
leave the cottage ? ”
“ I—l thought you were dead, and I’m—
I’m ”
“ I understand, and so you—married again? ”
“Yes, wuss luck ! ” chipped in Jim ; “ blarst ’er
for a ! ”
Ted t x>k no notice of the interruption.
“ And this brute has ill-used you, Jennie ? ”
The woman looked from one man to the other,
while her face gave varying expression to emotions
that could not be identified.
A pause.
“ Come home with me, Jennie, and forget this
“What, Ted? You’ll take me back? . . .
Do you hear, Jim ? ”
“ Oh, go to , if you want to,” said Jim,
with a coarse laugh.
Another pause.
“I’m waiting, Jennie,” said Ted.
“ Jim ! ” fairly screamed Jennie, “ ain’t you
master here ? ”
“ My oath ! ”
“ Then put that fellow out! ”
ISHMAEL.
A Maoriland preacher, the Rev. Yorke,
of Masterton, on a recent Sunday : “ Suppose
you were to go home to-day and find the Lord in
your house sitting by the fire, how would you
receive him ? ” Then the parishioners tittered. It
was 85° in the shade that day, and the idea of
going home and finding anybody sitting by the
fire made them suspect the rev. gentleman’s
sanity.
A Kodak.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Women generally are deficient in the sense of
humor. But there are three old ladies who are
perfectly full of it—humor of the primmest and
most sardonic kind. These three particular ladies
arc the trio that, with spindle, distaff, and shears,
weave, trim, and shape for us the garment of
Destiny. And whether we come in out of the
wet and secure a cosy place by the fire, or whether
we are left to shiver miserably on the kerbstone,
depends altogether on the texture, shape, and fit
of that garment.
It was in the men’s baths, and I was looking at
two young fellows who had just come out of the
water, and were drying themselves in the sun.
One, a weak-limbed, spavined, and altogether
“ in-bred ” looking youth, with thin, wispy hair,
and no chest, chin, or forehead worth speaking of.
But the other —well, as he stood there m the sun-
light, erect, and with feet slightly apart, he might
have posed as the model for the statue of Apollo
that stood upon Mount Actium. Clean-cut and
muscular as a racehorse in training, his crisp-
haired, well-shaped head was set on a pair of
shoulders fit for a fighting-man.
When, after retiring to their bunks, they came
forth clothed again, my little friend looked quite
presentable in his fashionably-cut flannels and
bright straw hat. He is young Scourings—son of old
Scourings, of Slop-pot Plains. He will come into
several thousands a year, and may have his pick
of our marriageable virgins. Apollo, in his work-
a-day clothes, proves to be the first lieutenant of
a tramcar. He probably won’t think about mar-
riage for some years yet.
Old Slunkey’s daughter is a girl that all our
young men are most' attentive to. She is a flat-
chested, narrow-brained little thing, with bony
arms and shoulders, and just a suspicion of frosti-
ness about the nose that no amount of pearl-
powder seems to permanently overlay. But old
Slunkey is said to be very solid on the question of
settlements, and I am told that she has refused
(among others) the inheritor of one of England’s
oldest historic titles.
I was passing Slunkey’s mansion, the other
morning, and saw a vision of loveliness on the
doorstep. It was “ the slavey ” —ye gods ! —what
a woman ! A pair of frank blue eyes and a sweet
face set in a halo of pure golden hair, the outlines
of a noble figure traceable beneath the thin print
gown. Here was a woman that, in old barbaric
days, men would have fought to win a smile from.
A woman to be clothed in costliest silks, lapped in
soft luxury, and hung with rarest jewels. A
woman fit to be the mother of heroes
and she was bashing the dust out of a doormat !!
Certainly the Fates are three queer old ladies.
Melb.
J. H. WAGNER.
At Gopeoi, an island not recruited for years
(says Cairns Argus), four natives swam off to the
Fearless, and asked to be recruited. They
wanted to go to Cairns “to good fellow master,
Mr. Swallow.” According to the Argus, they
were remarkably handsome boys, light chocolate
in color, with beautiful eyes and teeth.” Note
the Cairns ideal of beauty : “light chocolate in
color.” The Bulletin quite believes the Poly-
nesians are anxious to go to Cairns—they feel
quite at home there. It’s only the European who
feels out of place and like a foreigner in that sultry
nigger-and-Chow-ridden locality.


SAHITfI
luma
as
FLUID
1-
DISINFECTION WITH “ SANITAS.”
A searching investigation recently made by Dr. A. B. Griffiths, F.R.S.E., F.C.S., the well-
known Bacteriologist, lias established the fact that very minute proportions of “ Sanitas”
Fluid, “Sanitas” Oil and “ Sanitas ” Emulsion suffice to quickly destroy the microbes of
Cholera, Diphtheria, Typhoid Fever, Scarlet Fever, Pneumonia, Measles, Influenza
Puerperal Fever, Glanders, Yellow Fever, &c.
It has also been shown that the vapour of “Sanitas” Oil, as generated from the
“Sanitas” Disinfecting Fumigator, has a most destructive action on the germs of
disease, and that, consequently, its inhalation must be most beneficial in the treatment
of Diphtheria, Phthisis, and all Diseases of the Lungs and Throat.
When used for fumigating sick rooms, Dr. Griffiths’ experiments show that a short time
serves to destroy all the germs that are piese.it in the air.
His experiments also demonstrate that when “Sanitas” Fluid is sprayed about dwelling
rooms, the microbes of disease are entirely and quickly destroyed, and that small
quantities of “Sanitas” Emulsion equally well destroy the same germs when present
in water. Of great importance is the further fact which is brought out by Dr. Griffiths’
investigations, namely, that not only do “Sanitas” Disinfectants kill all disease germs
but they exhibit this great advantage over ot’mr preparations—namely, that they also
destroy the poisonous substances which are produced by disease germs and to which
they largely owe their fearful character.
Dr. Griffiths concludes his Report with these word-::
“There is no doubt that ‘ Sanitas ’ Oil and •,Sanitas’ Fluid are most powerful dis-
infectants ; consequently, they should not only be used for disinfecting rooms, hospitals
barracks, prisons, &c., but also employed in the treatment of infectious diseases such
„ as ( ' ll,)le, ' a > diphtheria; scarlet fever, measles, glanders, typhoid fever, tuberculosis,
MEDICAL PRESS EXTRACTS.
“ ‘Sanitas ’ is a valuable disinfectant, having certain advantages over all others ”
Medical Press and Circular.
“ ‘Sanitas’ now enjoys general favour as a disinfectant.”— Lancet.
“ ‘Sanitas’ has met with wide recognition and approval.”— British Medical Journal.
Copies of Dr. Griffiths’ Report (and others) will be sent Free
application to the Office of this paper, or to
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, SVIELBOURf^E.
Sanitas
DISINFECTING
powder
directions for use
'C ANITAS" POWDER is P° n "
.Poisonous and fragrant, s"
„ , erates (by slow evaporation) 1
hlJul* oxygenated and aromatic
rn va Poursof Pine and EucalyP
‘os forests.
all
Place In saucers aßout the room-
(* ee P about a table-spoonful »**
chamber utensils.
J ~ Kppn n • 1 r ... nlrtCAl.
-u locr utensils.
* ee P » Un for use in every closet
u/rt i r * n iti© it over all drains twice 8
week.
spittoon 0 * ab ° Ut a table-spooßlo' ln a "
k 6 »^ S l rinkie <t freely about stables,
ho ne s ’ cow sheds, pig sties, poultry
m U *® s ' ra bbit hutches, farm yards,
bln places - factories, urinals, ash
bins, & c
canF° P d ‘ s ' n P e cting walls, ceilings.
auie trucks and slaughter-houses.
bv j tbe Pou der into a wash or mil
i_ m ixiure with water and apply ,l
l hat form.
• ~ Use it fo
hospr- ■
hocnf."; "■ ,or Scrubbing the floors of
deck 3 r and workhouses, and the
CKs of ships.
Pr ICE of this tin,
1/-
fHf SANITAS CO., LTO.,
three colt lane,
. ETh H AL GREEN, LONDON. E -
The Elopement of Mrs. Peters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Simon Peters, irreverently called “The Apostle,”
returned to the railway camp late on Sunday
night, and found his tent topsy-turvy, and “his
missus ” gone. On the paling table, weighted
with a piece of cheese, was a scrap of sugar-paper
on which was written in Fan’s dog-leg hand
“ I’m sik. I’m goin’to cleer.”
Sim. swore a muffled oath under his abundant
moustache, and looked around upon the unwonted
disorder. The blue blanket and the rug had been
stripped from their bunk,; the spare, rough furni-
ture of the big tent lay about in confusion; and
amongst the grey ashes in the wide sod fireplace
was a bunch of reddish hair. Peters fished this
out, and examined it with as much astonishment
as the slow-going, even-tempered navvy was
capable of feeling. It was his wife’s hair, and had
evidently been hacked off in a hurry, regardless of
effect. Piled on the bush stool against the wall
were Mrs. Peters’s clothes. Nothing of hers that
Peters could recall was missing; even the big
quondong earrings, of which she was so proud,
were thrown upon the floor. Her hat was on the
bed, and her boots were under the table.
Still clutching the mop of hair in his hand, Sim.
backed solemnly and soberly on to a seat, and sat
for a few minutes gravely weighing the evidence.
Obviously, Fanny had gone off clad only in a blue
blanket or a ’possum rug. This was most extra-
ordinary, even for Fanny, but there was some
satisfaction in it, since it should not be difficult to
trace a white woman so attired.
Presently Peters arose and went forth to prose-
cute enquiries. On Saturday, before departing
for Dunolly, he had asked Rolley’s wife to keep
an eye on the missus. As he approached the
gaffer’s tent, however, he heard a woman’s voice
raised in shrill vituperation, and recognised Mrs.
Rolley’s strident contralto.
“ My poor mother that’s in Heaven knew you,
you . She always said you was a
And poor Rolley was inundated with a torrent
of his own choice blasphemies. Simon Peters
knew by experience that when Mrs. Rolley dragged
her sainted mother into little domestic dif-
ferences, she was at least two days gone in drink,
and quite incapable of recollecting anything
beyond Rolley’s shortcomings ; so he turned away
with a sigh, and carried his quest into the camp.
Half-an-hour later he returned to his tent, and
resumed his thoughtful attitude on the stool. He
had secured one piece of evidence that seemed to
throw a good deal of light on the situation. Late
on Saturday night someone had broken into Curly
Hunter’s tent, and stolen therefrom a grey tweed
suit, a black felt hat, and a pair of light blucher
boots. Peters, putting this and that together
slowly, and with great mental effort, concluded
that Curly Hunter and Fanny were about the
same height. He recollected, too, the explanation
his wife offered when he discovered her back to be
seamed and lined with scars.
“Dad done it,” said Fanny. “Poor old dad,
he was always lickin’ me.”
“ But,” gasped Peters, filled with a sudden itch
to be at the throat of his deceased father-in-law,
“ you don't mean to say the cowardly brute lashed
you like that! ”
“Didn’t he?” replied she, laughing lightly.
“He used to rope me up on the cow-bail, an’
hammer me with a horsewhip. Once when I set
the grass on fire, an’ burned the stable an’ the
dairy ; another time when I broke Grasshopper’s
neck, ridin’ him over Coleman’s chock-an’-log
fence; an’ agen when I dressed up in Tom’s
clothes, took a swag, and got a job pickin’-up in
M'Kinley’s shed.”
Early on Monday morning Peters had an inter-
view with Curly Hunter. Hunter was sympathe-
tic, and readily sold Sim. the stolen things at a
modest valuation, promising at the same time to
observe a friendly reticence in the matter ; but, for
all that, two hours later everybody in the camp
knew that Mrs. Peters had run off, and that
“The Apostle” was away hunting for her. The
general opinion, freely and profanely expressed,
was that Simon Peters was a superlative idiot. It
was agreed that Peters would have exhibited
common sense by sitting still under the bereave-
ment and casually thanking Providence for the
“let off.” Since Mrs. Peters started a couple of
ramshackle waggons down the gradient, and nearly
smashed up Ryan’s gang, the camp had suddenly
grown weary of her “ monkey tricks.”
Mrs. Simon Peters was a woman of twenty-
six, ten or twelve years younger than her
husband, more comely, more decent, and
more presentable in every way than the
other wives of the camp. She did not
get drunk in the bedroom end of Wingy Lee’s
shanty on pay nights, did not use the picturesque
idiom of the gangers in ordinary conversation,
and in some respects had been a good mate to
Peters. But it must be admitted that the camp
had further justification in doubting the complete
sanity of Simon Peters’ wife. She had an eerie
expression that was quaintly accented by keen,
twinkling, black eyes in combination with light
red hair and rather pale brows; and she was
possessed of a spirit of mischief that led her into
the wildest extravagances. Her devilment was
that of an ungovernable school-boy, without his
preposterous sense of humor. An uncontrollable
yearningforexcitementimpelled her to the strangest
actions. She had another peculiar characteristic,
one unknown to the camp, in her apparent insensibi-
lity to physical pain. Peters had been astounded
by the fact that a burn, a cut, a scald, or a blow pro-
voked no complainings from his wife, and scarcely
any regard. This indifference extended to the
sufferings of others. After the blasting accident in
North cutting, Fanny, of all the women in the
camp, was the only one who had the nerve to
approach the mangled body of poor MTntyre, and
she placidly worked over the shocking mass, still
instinct with life, whilst the strongest men turned
sick at the sight of it.
Sim. made no effort to understand his wife,
which was well, as he was only an average man,
and she was past finding out He concluded that
her extraordinary conduct was just the natural
unreasonableness and contrariness of women
“coming out strong,” and made the best of the
situation in which he found himself. Being an
average man, Sim. was a superior navvy ; he only
got drunk on big occasions, and, drunk or sober,
treated his wife with indulgent fondness, and
occasionally Fanny seemed fond of him in return ;
but then she had been very warmly attached to
that father who used to bail her up in the cowshed
and lash her with a horsewhip in the hope of con-
verting her to sweet reasonableness.
On the Monday morning Peters first went up
the road, seeking his wife, but no one at White’s
had seen a slim young fellow in a grey suit pass
that way, so he tried down the road, with better
success. Clark, at the Travellers’ Rest, had seen
“just sich a feller ” as Sim. described.
“ They had a drink here Sunday, an’ left,
making for Molagul, it seemed t’me,” said Clark.
“ They ? ” queried Peters.
“Yes. There was two of ’em. The big feller
shouted. A brown-faced chap, with a black
moustache, an’ a deep cut in his chin, here.”
Simon’s grip made a dent in the pewter he held,
and a grey hue crept over his cheeks and into his
lip»s. Never before had he doubted his wife in
this way ; never through all her mad escapades
had he had reason to question her fealty as a wife
till now. Peters remembered the man distinctly ;
he had seen him about the camp, looking for
work. The peculiar cleft chin would serve to
identify him amongst ten thousand. Striding
along the road the fugitives had taken, the navvy
recollected hearing Fanny speaking enthusiasti-
cally of the tall, brown stranger as a fine man,
and the grey in his cheek deepened to the color of
ashes, and his jaw hardened meaningly. His
quest had suddenly assumed a terrible significance,
and that fierce pallor and grim rigidity of the
jaw never left him until its end.
Peters heard of them again in the afternoon,
but got off the trail towards evening, and it was
not till late on the following day that he picked
up the scent. Then he talked with a farmer who
had seen them.
“ They slep’ in an old hut up in my grass
paddock las’ night,” said the man, “ an’went up
the road at about seven this mornin’.”
“ Did both men sleep in the hut ? ” asked Peters.
“ To be sure ! ”
Sim. continued his journey, steadily, and with
apparent unconcern, but cherishing an immovable
determination to kill the brown-faced man the
moment they met.
Early on the Wednesday morning Peters came
up with the runaway. An old man watering a
horse at a small creek told him in answer to his
inquiries :
“ A tall chap, with a divided chin—name of
Sandler, ain’t it? He’s here. I let him a bit
of ringin’. That’s his axe you hear up the
paddock.”
Following the ring of the axe, Peters soon came
upon his man. Sandler stopped working as he
approached, and turned towards him, resting on
the handle of his axe. Sim. walked to withm a
couple of yards of the stranger, and threw off the
light swag he carried.
“You infernal hound ! ” he said ; “ where is my
wife ? ”
Sandler started up in extreme amazement.
“Keep off!” he cried. “What the devil do I
know about your wife ? ”
Peters rushed at him with the fury of a brute, and
the two men exchanged heavy blows. Then they
closed, and wrestled for a moment, but Simon’s
rage lent him a strength that was irresistible, and
presently the other man was sent down with
stunning force. As he attempted to rise, shaken
and almost breathless, Peters, who had seized the
axe, struck him once with the head of it, and
Sandler fell back again and lay perfectly still,
with a long, gaping wound over his left eye from
which the blood poured through his hair upon the
new chips and the yellow grass.
When Peters looked up his wife stood facing
him. She wore blucher boots, a pair of grey
trousers, and a man’s shirt, and carried an axe.
She gazed composedly at the fallen man.
“What have you done, Sim. ?” she asked.
“You ran away with that man ! ” He pointed
at Sandler.
She nodded her head.
“ He didn’t know I was a woman,” she said.
EDWARD DYSON.
Two Devils.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Of all predisposing causes, undue indulgence in in-
toxicating liquor is the most common and the most
dangerous.”— Sunstroke instructions of N.S.W. Board of
Health.
It’s dreadful news that everywhere is flash’d along
the line—
The devil’s in the whisky, and the devil s m the
wine,
And who so fain would drink again, must now
the cup decline !
Lo ! man and beast drop down, drop down, in
field and farm and street;
The mercury’s nigh boiling, and the records all
are beat;
It’s plain to see, you must agree, the devil’s in the
heat!
Here’s a dilemma (like “ To be, or not to be ”) to
vex ’ee :
You either drink, as Christians should, and die of
apoplexy,
Or, if you’re dry, you must not die a parch’d and
thirsty wreck. See ?
And east and west and north and south, through-
out the land accurst,
Are some who die of sunstroke, and some who
die of thirst.
I’d like to know, before I go, which death would
be the worst.
It’s easy talking temperance —you sitting there on
ice;
But, if the sun’s not temperate, it’s mighty cool
advice.
You ought to own the frigid zone —or preach in
Paradise.
Old Sol has had a proper spree, and made the
liquor fly—
Popp’d half the champagne corks in town, and
drunk the country dry ;
And what the sun has gone and done —why
shouldn’t you and I ?
But tho’ the sun exceeds himself all day—the
thirsty brute—-
Drinking the sap from grain and grass, the juice
from vine and fruit—
The festive cuss must punish us because we follow
suit!
The devil’s in the bottle, and the devil’s in the
drought,
And which the worser devil is, is very much in
doubt;
So let us drain the glass again, and drown both
devils out!
GAMMA.
At Melb. police-barracks are two public
notices side by side. “ .£lOO reward. Illicit Dis-
tillation.” “ .£5O reward. Murder.” Life is
cheaper than rum.
Gents : You have heard of our Pound
Suits? Well, order one. Send your size along,
and we will send the suit, well packed in strong
brown paper, to any part of New South Wales for
One Pound. No extra for postage or carriage.
Address your letters to Hordern Brothers, 203,
205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.


Men I have Smiled with.”
Pointers!
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
L eading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
TANKARDS TEMPERANCE HOTEL,
Corner LONSDALE & QUEEN aT RESTS.
(Established over 10 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Manager.
Medical.
manhoo I >.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORE i
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SSs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia — Pern) & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street. MELBOURNE
Agents for N. S. Wales—VV. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CURES FROM FT Ll', without ADDITIONAL MEANS
SOLD in PARIS bv
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT-
There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
reoognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurioua
dL O
315
ENGINEERS, GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS and MANUFACTURERS’ AGENTS,
KerLt Street, SYDNEY, and 499 Bourke Street, ]VE E LBOURNE.
AGENTS FOR—l>lake s Pumps, Pickering Governors, Kortings Injectors, Tamte Emery Wheels, Ludlow Sluice Valves, Champion Lubricating Oils, Empire Laundry Machinery,
Sturtevant s Fans, Barnes Foot Power Machinery. LARGE STOCKS of THESE GOODS on HAND. Also of General Machinery, Tools, Machinery Supplies, Belting, and Sundries
“Semper Eadem
,J Which, literally translated, means “ALWAYS THE SAME : .
THIS IS WHY
The “LION” BRAND.
I defy &ll
ro
Approach
if.
r
km
Lion
*
5C
JS
/
IofFKES CLAfttMCigF
i tt'tio&y K£WT§ T
M
Of Confectionery is so popular.
ONLY THE FINEST INGREDIENTS USED. THEY ARE THE GREATEST
FAVORITES WITH THE CHILDREN.
TVT el xx xx. fa ctured Only "toy
James stedman
Manufacturing Confectioner. '
145 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT' SYSTEM.
PKfeCE, Is. ... P er POST, Is. 3d.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH ?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
r A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
“ I w as advised by a friend to try your Lung Tojiie. To my most agree-
able surprise, after the third dose I was able to officiate with perfect ease. I
resolved to add your valuable Medicine to my household remedies, and cer-
tainly shall never be without it.”
(Rev.) F. C. S. KRQtNIQ, Vicar of St. Barnabas, Hull.
" As a public speaker and singer, I always find it invaluable for clearing
the voice. It acts like, magic on my children for throat and. chest com-
plaints, cmd I have known it save life, when given up by three physicians.”
JOHN BAILEY t Pastor, P.M. Chur eh, Ramsgate.
Try jt for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma
IT NEVER FAILS.
v Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in Bottles, Is. lfd., 2s. 9d.;~45. od.
and 11s., by alf Chemista-and Patent
Medicine-Vendors.
Wholesale of all- London and
Colonial Houses.
SWAGMAN : “Could yer give us a pipe of tobacco, mate?”
HORSEMAN: “Yes. I can give you some that was made in America. It’s CAMERON'S TWO SEAS—the best
smoke in the world!”
SWAGMAN: " My oath, it's good. I've bin tryin' to get it for years.”


X
%
H
REVOLVES" BRAND
MS
%*A
siV
6 6 mALICS or Tin: CO:.'
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED
—ARE—
w.
i
ATT
GOODS and CUTLERY
& SONS.
POONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—oy —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORK
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
©3 York Street, S 3 3DHSCT 3E3 "3ST,
" THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street}, MEL B O XJUJiTB.
The India Rubber) Cutta Percha & Telegraph Works Co. Ltd.
i'rcyt
! nvoiived Hose,
I
m
India Rubber Goods
For all purposes.
HOSE
—FOE —
WATER, STE AM, BREWERS,
SUCTION, eto.
SPECIALITY.
teets it
“Siivcrtown ” Grip Armoured Hose—costs very little more than th<
onlinary hose, and lasts twice as long. Cannot kink, and armour pro-
from abrasion, and wi > ies it to stand a high pressure.
PRICK 1.1 STS AND FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
283 GEORGE STREET
(Facing Hunter Street).
EPPS’
GEATEFUL —COMPORTING-
COG
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
Qll ‘ 09 391 9 0003
'MSN
Pioneers
OB'
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE. The CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which'
The FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more).
has done so much for the colony and colonies). REFRIGERATION. ICE-MAKING.
Pioneers
OF
'J he Company sells only the very best articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Ernisr, Fish, Came, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the City Depots (Refreshment)
J 0:j 3SHTVT Gr STREET
for AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for Afternoon Teas for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARB UR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PumpE
In Stock ..of all
Classes.
Boiler Feeding.
Tank Filling.
Mining.
Circulating.
Re 'rige rating.
Water Works.
Drainage.
,
am
SINKING PXJIVIJ?.
Artesian Wei
Salt Water.
Sewerage.
Tannery.
Acid.
Oil Refinery.
Marine.
Sole Agents for Australasia: <fc LclC \
V
Wm. Walker, Sons, and Bartholomew, Ltd.,
Are now showing their NEW STOCK of
Artistic Furniture
At Bunliill House, George-st„ Sydney’ <=«» David *»«>.
PASSAGES ROOKED
-'•Vnt -'>« _iLF TO ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD.
Infer: retrr* en route.
'I rou.i.r Sa e >.
So C'tiim.i+ni u Churned.
In oriuat'on Orotis,
Melbourne: 269 Collins street
Sydney: 4 Hunter-street, etc., etc.
ALL OLASSES At Lowest Rates.
INTENDING PASSENGERS BIIOULD APPLY TO
THOS. COOK & SON.
“ D AOOMEIT ” Champagne. EXTRA SUP. DRY.
&. CO’S Sherries. IN BULK and CASE.
“ MARIFOSA, *’ Cigars. In 50 and 100 BOXES.
The above can now be had fr m the SOLE AGENTS —
SCOTT, SIBBALD & CO.,
20 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
p.
PRTN'OIC
SYDNkV
S™; ™POETEa of Wines, Spirits and Beers,
, o, tin, F,J£Sg®s «•«*«, HaYMARKET
«* Van ..f Pawl, S„ri„g ti," yl„ r ‘“,i „ rf S to lead
ALES.
OUINKSS'S ENGLISH STOUT.
Bull D.isi Stout
Bo;u- s H. ad Stout
Burkes’
Beaver
T. It. L.
‘Cat
4 doz. qts., at 9 9, 39'- case.
is also n Direct Importer of tye Best
liraiul.s of Teas.
Send for Special Price-list for ‘96.
'1 Mackay’s Whisky 43/- Case.
Prince of Wal;s’ Hotel and Ref-eehnrnt Rooms,
7TB to 78+ QEOKOIj STREET,
BCaymarket, Sydney.
