

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Draught Stout.
CADBURY'S COCOA
A Stimulating*, Sustaining* Cup. Made Instantly.
4
4r
PARSONS’ Flaked
K. Go WATKINS «SC- CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
r.
A
o. "o*
<Rac£aJocK>
-*»' 5 0>
jy o >r
4
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 28 Pitt Strkkt, SYDNEY.
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
ALL STOREKEEPERS *
fJV /V.S \A/. & OUEENSLAND.
' ; V:£AIF JIl
wm
. :
iittiii
= ! s^lil||l|fS !^|
H £
jlfejnSll
B|.y —I
P^ lMB ..»sßaaaßsaciiagi
ftP
■Stay
l£^
Warn
”-■^l
mWSfWRmm
JbIIIimI
ROBERTS 9
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps,
4s and 2s per bottle.
Brown’s Four-Crown Whisky, 319
Gilbey’s Silverstream Schnapps,
4s and 2s
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
Whisky, 3/9
Very Superior old Fort Wine
for Invalids .
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
Before viyih'ng the Cify write fo (Ke Manager for
Card ®fTariff, (orrejpon'jence promptly offended to.
dfg
dfg
TJcUMLm
Use ii lHoueer” Sole Leather.
IK
SUPPORT YOU 11 OWN
PEOPLE
by encouraging
ACSTRA LI A X INDUSTRY.
OUR GOODS
ARE
Tanned Bl Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
the best I!S the would.
J, C.’-UDQWm SOH.Ltd.
TANNERS,
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tanuery : Lane Cove River.
The T Boot Coy.
Largest and Best Shoe Store in Australia.
IMMENSE VARIETY TO SELECT FROM.
Prices Below every Competitor.
Tboot company,
386 George-st., Sydney.
NIORS
TONIC
THE
(REGISTERED):
Great Health Restorer.
RECOMMENDED BY THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION.
SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Sold Everywhere.
= Capitaine Oil Ssagri l *®
3/4 to
60 B.H.P.
Recommended and used by nearly all Govern meets. MSer^walJ^SumS!’NO i-pint per
make, compact, strong U*ht, --oiSSS for feam if price for kerosene 10s. per case, 90 gallons nnlk separated for One Penny.
hour per H. P. used. Ask for result and Al „tra.U«ia 30 IPitt Street, SYDNEY.
Head Office for Australasia
want a Good Whisky, drink WILLIAMS’
Tucker & Co., Agents, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 17.—N0. 840*]
[Saturday, March 21, 1896,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post ns a Newspaper.


“Evert man can write at least one book,” every
man with brains has at least one good story to
tell; every man with or without brains moves in
a different circle and knows things unknown to
any other man. Write carefully and plainly on
one side of the paper only, obliterating every un-
necessary word; then mail your work to The
Bulletin, which pays for accepted matter. In
certain of the so-called prize-competitions the
great prizes fall to the newspaper-proprietor, who
gets the guileless public to work for him for noth-
ln ff\ “hort stories, or ballads, especially on bush,
mining, sporting, social, or dramatic themes, are
preferred by Tiif. Bulletin ; 1360 words go to a
column. If you can possibly keep your story
within a column all the better. Don’t write a
column on any subject if a half-column will do ;
don t write half-a-column where a mere paragraph
is enough. “ Boil it down.”
Suggestions for illustration with or without
rough explanatory drawings will be glad!-- re-
ceived bv The Bulletin.
LITERARY NOTES.
The Short Story.
Two or three weeks ago there was printed
on this page a contributor’s condemnation or
depreciation of the short story, and especially
of The Bulletin short story. The writer
was plainly in earnest, and his remarks had
the interest always attaching to a “ libera-
tion of the soul.” Otherwise, they gav
opportunity to sigh for one’s own hot yout
and vanished delusions.
* * * *
It did not appear that “J.H.G.” wou
be likely to lead enquiring minds serious
astray. Unluckily, insufficient allowanc
was made for the Mahometan class of peop
who nourish a not-always-enlightened reve
ence for the printed letter. Some of thes
failing to digest this paper’s initial di
claimer, have been seriously perplexed l
the critic’s very first thunderclap :
The short story is the reduction of literature
the paragraph. It is something seen in a flash
and, however brilliant it may be, a more coi
tinuous light is more impressive. The short stoi
has little grip; and few, even the best, will bea
reading twice. Try this experiment: Reac
Kipling—;then read Zola, a play of Shakespear
or anything continuous, and then go back
Kipling. You feel that the latter starves th
imagination instead of feeding it. The sho
story is written so that no one need think or exe
oise his imagination.
And so on. Concerning which the loca
Mahometan, treading cautiously lest h
should trample on the sacred name of Allal
demands: “What is it ? ” In one word
it is nonsense.
* * * *
On the language, no other opinion is po.
sible. “J.H.G.” is not content to weig
and measure and discriminate : with on
whisk of his energetic broom he sweeps th
short story right out of the literary univers
—away into the formless void where th
ghosts of dull historians and wooden philoso
phers gibber continually, and the bad poet
wail and gnash their horrid rhymes. “Th
short story has little grip ; and few, even th
best, will bear reading twice.” There g
Poe and Bret Harte, and a good half o
Hawthorne ! There go Kipling and Steven
son, Quiller Couch and Marriott Watson
Ella D’Arcy, H. D. Lowry, and all the new
English tribe ! “ The short story is writte
so that no one need think or exercise hi
imagination.” Over with Balzac and Man
passant, Gautier and Mendes, Bourget anc
and Richepin ! Follow them wit
nearly every other modern writer of fiction
Lucky those who have a long story to grappl
them with hooks of steel to the edge of th
abyss ! ’Tis the sole means of salvation.
* * * *
“J.H.G.” does not means this? On
hopes not; but he says it. “The shor
story has little grip”—“the short story i
written so that no one need think or exercise
his imagination ” —what superb generalisa
tions ! “ The Outcasts of Poker Flat ” has
little grip; “Wandering Willie’s Tale” (in
“ Redgauntlet ”) is written so that no one
need think, “La Grande ” so tha
no one need exercise his imagination. Only
“ a few ” are righteous enough to escape the
destruction which “J.H.G.” breathes over
the doomed contes of the plain (nothing
“ fancy ” where thought and imagination are
unnecessary). What uncritical incapacity
we have here l
• • • *
“ The short story is the reduction of litera-
ture to the paragraph.” Of course, this
isn’t true in the literal sense : it isn’t true in
any sense. You can hardly spend less than
half-an-hour over the typical short story ; if
it be classical you can spend an evening.
“ The Fall of the House of Usher ” is worth
a week of evenings, so various are the trains
of thought which it lights; and its memory
abides with a congenial mind while “this
machine ” is to it. A long story is “ more
impressive.” What a tiresome “J.H.G.”
this is ! Why doesn’t he find the just word,
and fit it with proper conditions ? Is a mile-
and-a-half of mud-flat more impressive than
fifty yards of the Venetian Grand Canal
Does the egg which spatters on a politician’s
white waistcoat impress him less than the
big aerolite which fell in Sweden a.m. Lord-
knows-what ? Certainly, merit being equal,
a good big story is better than a good little
story, just as a good big horse is better than
a good little horse. Bulk counts. But what
is the use of asserting, with the air of Co-
lumbus, that a hundredweight is less im-
pressive than a ton ? It all depends on where
they are and how they hit you. One brick
judiciously dropped on the cranium is more
impressive than all the pyramids of Egypt.
* * * *
‘ ‘ The short story is written so that no
one need think or exercise his imagination.”
Why, it is the very crowning merit of the
short story that it gives thought and imagina-
tion scope ! The good old solid type of novel
in three volumes leaves absolutely nothing
to the imagination. The stolid British
public refuses to imagine “ worth a
cent.” It demands that every couple shall
be married, every character accounted for,
every thread unravelled to the bitter end.
Then it grunts satisfaction. But in lively,
alert-minded France—the home of the conte
—the imagination does not grovel, it mounts
and flies like the dying Christian’s soul.
Authors do not treat readers as if they were
the first class in long division, and set down
every figure on the blackboard. Does
“ J.H.G.” think it needs no thought and
imagination to build the mammoth, like
Owen, from a bone ?
* * » *
When the intelligent Mahometan reader
gets just here, he will note that just here
pen-breath and paper-space fail. As to the
rest of “ J.H.Gr. ’s ” slain ideas, zeal for the
glory of 50,000 Allahs could not provoke to
slay them further.
A Jolly Highwayman.
One would say that a good half of H. B.
Marriott Watson’s talent is his sense of style,
his knack of phrases. He is a graduate in
the school of Stevenson, preferring dainty
kickshaws to solid joints, picking his way
among words as delicately as a cat among the
puddles of a wet pavement, and flavoring his
sentences with a quaint archaism as subtle
the odors of rosemary and lavender clingin
to a last-century cabinet. In witness, tak
the piece of jewelled prose which opens th
first story in his new book, “ Gallopin
The chance seemed fallen into my hands, anc
without my expectation. The place was ver
privy ; the sun stood at four of the afternoon, an
already the heaven was blackening overhead. 1
thin, cold wind whistled through the empty trees
tossing the snow in spray, and the devil of'a hare
night was brewing. In the centre of the roac
and bare to this desolation, the carriage stooc
forlorn, the shafts half-buried in a drift, and th
broken wheel full circle to the sky. And ther
lay the Bishop, reclining against his cushions, wit
his interrogating eyes upon me.
“You.say truly,” said the Bishop, suavely, “th
Church is ill-served by the minor clergy in som
gross particulars.”
It does not need a craftsman to appreciat
the ease and repose of this, the unaffected
ness of the affectation. The trick seem
simple, but it takes a clever head to compas
it. How many men, how many barbers, can
sharpen a razor ?
* * * *
But the Bishop and the highwayman—
devil-may-care, humorous, wholly delightfu
highwayman—are exchanging quip and chec'
in the keen air biting round the carriage
The Bishop’s purse and rings are handec
forth, and at a whimsy restored again ; then
the churchman, fronted with the prospect o
a night among the drifts, consents to take
dinner with Dick Ryder at a convenient inn
on a promise of convoy to his destinatioi
later. The dinner is a rare piece of prose
play. When the pair set forth, a mad fancy
bom of the Devil and good wine, seizes the
wicked wag Ryder. A carriage comes along
and before the Bishop can protest his bridle
is seized and he is made to stand by while
the purses are flung out. Once more wheel
are heard, and “I declare,” says Dick
‘ ‘ that I had no anticipation of the event a
the outset.”
The act was merely incidental; but when
smote the Bishop’s horse upon the rump, he pu
up his forelegs and plunged out upon the road
fetching his head with a crash through the win
dow of the carriage as it pulled up. Confusion
fell in a moment, and a frightened face sank into
the interior of the coach. The Bishop himself, for
he was an indifferent horseman, being heavy above
the saddle, vyas flung in a lump across the mane,
and sat looking in at the window with a very rec
and angry face. He was a formidable fellow,
with great thick eyebrows, and I swear it was as
much the contortion of his ugly features as my
own appearance with the pistol that finished the
business on the spot. And he was scarce back ir
the seat ere the carriage was bowling away down
the road. Then it was, perhaps, that I had most
occasion to admire the man, for, righting himself
with some labor, and setting his hat anew, he
blew like a porpoise for some minutes. At the
end he drew out his box with great difficulty, and,
turning to me, tapped it after his habit; and,
says he, snuffing: “That was the Lady Craw-
shaw,” says he. “ ’Twas the last week but one I
dined with her.”
* * * *
Yet the Bishop begins to get angry, and
when his jolly companion claps a pistol into
his hand and bids him lay two cavaliers by
their heels—“all of a sudden—damn me !
there was a cold nose at my temple, and the
Bishop’s face, looking devilishly wicked,
smirking into mine.” Dick is compelled to
make terms, but, seizing a chance, he grips
the Bishop’s hand. The pistol goes off, and
the bullet grazes Dick’s leg. Angered, he
limps up and puts the point of his sword to
the other’s breast. Only once before has the
Bishop set off a firearm, and by luck it hit a
grocer. This is but his second shot, “and
the pity of it is,” he says, “ that both hit by
accident. ”
I could not have helped it; his face and the
words set me off once more; and dropping my
blade I put my knuckles in my hips and shouted
with laughter.
The Bishop waited, and when at length I came
to a pause he looked at me with interrogation.
“ I suppose,” says he, “ that I shall not now have
even my own half of the booty ? ”
“Take it,” I shouted, bursting out afresh,
“ take it all, and go in God’s name, or whoever be
your master. I would not rob the establishment
of such a pillar—no, not for salvation from the
Pit.”
And, flinging the bags at his apron, I mounted
Calypso and rode off, laughing still.
* * * «
This will give an idea of the style and
matter of ‘ ‘ Galloping Dick : being Chapters
from the Life and Fortunes of Richard Ryder,
otherwise Galloping Dick, sometime Gentle-
man of the Road.” Of the half-dozen sec-
tions the first three are the best, and all
were better tasted separately in the New
Review. Taken together, the form of
them cloys somewhat. Yet the book is an
uncommonly good achievement, and the con-
ceits have spirit and substance. Allowing
for restricted scope, Mr. Watson maintains
the high level of quality he reached in “At
the First Comer and Other Stories.” To
surpass that level, he needs, in addition to
his brilliancy and ingenuity, just a little
more depth, and a little more power.
Items.
So far as America is concerned, Mark Twa:
has invariably published his own books, anc
sold them exclusively through canvasser
Wheneverhe has put a new book on the mar ke
it has been impossible to buy a copy fro
the ordinary bookseller. The would-be pu
chaser has had to wait till called on by th
agent allotted to his district. Such books
“The Innocents Abroad” and “ Roughin
It ” were published in America at 155., a,nc
of this price the agent received a commissi©
of 3s. This policy accounts for the larg
sums which Mark realised from his books -
so long as he published only his own books
and looked sharply after the business himse
—for Mark is no slouch as a business man
Apart from his greater popularity, the gain
of other American writers have been rela
tively small as compared with Mark Twain’s
They have been content to have their book
published through the orthodox and respec
able channels, and have cheerfully accept ec
a royalty of 10 per cent, on the retail price
This would nett them 7|d. per copy on
book published at TJdof., and containin
perhaps as much matter as “Roughing It,
on every copy of which the shrewd Mar
must have netted at least Bs.
Cynic : Permit a good-humored cavi.
“ The rank is but the guinea’s stamp.” Ye
there are issued “ Poems, by Jennings Car
michael (Mrs. Francis Mullis) ” ; and “Th
Yellow Wave, by Kenneth Mackay, Membe
of the Legislative Assembly of New Sout.
Wales.” (See title-pages.) Why shoulc
authors present such— testimonials ? Wha
is their work for ?
Stephen Crane, author of “The Rec
Badge of Courage,” is said to be no cliimer
of the pen, but a veritable American, agec
23. As he could not, therefore, have taken
part in the war episodes which he describes
one has to fall back upon another provisiona
theory of his remarkable book— matte
drawn from history and personal narrative
style from a study of battle-writers, and
nervous, impressionable organisation anc
vivid imagination for joint architects.
Henry Lawson is back from his Maorilanc
trip, and busy recollecting more emotions ii
tranquillity. “In the Days When the Work
Was Wide and Other Verses ” (post free for
ss. sd. from this office) sells steadily—anc
deservedly. Lawson’s prose sketches are
promised shortly.
Someone claims that Hall Caine ‘ ‘ gets his
plots from the Bible.” “ The Deemster ”is
the Prodigal Son re-fitted modernly
“ The Bondman ” is Esau and Jacob over
again; “The Scapegoat” is Eli and his
two sons, with Samuel changed to a little
girl; and “ The Manxman ”is the old tale o:
David and Uriah. But the last analogy,
for example, is stretched to snapping-point
and a correcter statement would hold that
both Hall Caine and the Biblical writers gei
their plots from primal human nature.
It is said that Zangwill netted £lO by his
first story. He was at the time a teacher in
London East End, and supported eleven
persons on his earnings ! The story was
hawked about by himself and other boy
friends on a Saturday afternoon. This
reached the ears of the school board, which
immediately dismissed him for daring to
write a story without first asking permission.
He then got an appointment on a newly-
started Jewish paper, and marched on to
thousands a year. But one would like
Zangwill’s signature to all this.
A splendid edition of engraver Picart’s
most finished work was recently offered for
sale in an Australian city. Picart is very
French and very free, and the mildest thing
in the book is the plate illustrating the pretty
myth of Salmacis and Hermaphroditus. The
purchaser was a newly-ordained bishop.
Were those dear temptresses invited to St.
Anthony’s four-o’clock tease ?
Certainly Kipling is the leading English
manufacturer of poems by machinery. A
verse from his last—the very best oleomar-
garine :
Buy my English posies—
You that will not turn.
; Buy my hot-wood clematis,
Buy a frond o’ fern
Gathered where the Erskine leaps
Down the road to Lome—
Buy my Christmas creeper
And I’ll say where you were born !
West away from Melbourne dust holidays begin—
They that mock at Paradise woo at Cora Lynn
Through the great South Otway gums sings the
great South Main—
Take the flower and turn the hour, and kiss your
love again !
Isn’t it a pretty little bit of sentimental
trickery ? Kipling couldn’t well put in any-
thing about Manly or Chowder B’y, for he
only spent a couple of days or so in Sydney,
and maybe he wasn’t sure he had the names
quite right in his note-book. But in Mel-
bourne he stayed two or three weeks, and he
knows all about Lome and Cora Lynn.
There’s nothing like localising your
if you want to hit a public exactly on “ the
point.”
The following list, from a leading wholesale
book-house, shows the order of Sydney
wholesale demand during February :
1. Corelli’s “Sorrows of Satan.’’
2. Lawson’s Poems.
3. Paterson’s Poems.
4. Du Maurier’s “Trilby.”
5. Turner’s “ Seven Little Australians.”
6. Gould’s “On and Off the Turf.”
7. Crockett’s “Stickit Minister.”
8. Maclaren’s “Bonnie Brier Bush.”
9. Boldrewood’s “Crooked Stick.”
10. Kipling’s “Second Jungle Book.”
Reprints.
LYRICS OF LOVE.
Not I, Sweet Soul, Not I.
All glorious as the Rainbow’s birth,
She came in Springtide’s golden hours ;
When Heaven went hand-in-hand with Earth,
And May was crowned with buds and flower*
The mounting devil at my heart
Clomb faintlier, as my life did win
The charmed heaven she wrought apart
To wake its better Angel in.
With radiant mien she strode serene,
And passed me smiling by !
O ! who that looked could help but love?
Not I, sweet soul, not I.
The dewy eyelids of the dawn
Ne’er oped such heaven as hers did show.
It seemed her dear eyes might have shone
As jewels in some starry brow.
Her face flashed glory like a shrine,
Or lily-bell with sun burst bright;
Where came and went love-thoughts divine,
As low winds walk the leaves in light :
She wore her beauty with the grace
Of Summer’s star-clad sky ;
O ! who that looked could help but love?
Not I, sweet soul, not I.
Her budding breasts like fragrant fruit
Of love were ripening to be pressed ;
Her voice, that shook my heart’s red root,
Might not have broken a Babe’s rest, —
More liquid than the running brooks ;
More vernal than the voice of Spring,
When Nightingales are in their nooks,
And all the leafy thickets ring.
The love she coyly hid at heart
Was shyly conscious in her eye ;
O 1 who that looked could help but love ?
Not I, sweet soul, not L
Gerald Massey.
When I Heard at the Close of Day.
When I heard at the close of the day how my
name had been receiv’d with plaudits in the
capitol, still it was not a happy night for me
that follow’d,
And else when I carous’d, or when my plans were
accomplish’d, still I was nob happy ;
But the day when I rose at dawn, from the bed of
perfect health, refresh’d, singing, inhaling the
ripe breath of autumn,
When I saw the full moon in the west grow pale
and disappear in the morning light,
When I wander’d alone over the beach, and, un-
dressing, bathed, laughing with the cool
waters, and saw the sun rise ;
And when I thought how my dear friend, my
lover, was on his way coming, O then I was
happy,
O then eacli breath tasted sweeter, and all that
day my food nourish’d me more, and the
beautiful day passed well,
And the next came with equal joy, and with the
next at evening came my friend ;
And that night while all was still I heard the
waters roll slowly continually up the shores,
I heard the hissing rustle of the liquid and sands
as directed to me whispering to congratulate
me,
For the one I love most lay sleeping by me under
the same cover in the cool night,
In the stillness in the autumn moonbeams his face
was inclined towards me,
And his arm lay lightly around my breast—and
that night I was happy.
Walt Whitman.
Hesperides.
Dear little Heart,
May l whisper a prayer
For a boon ere we part,
For a kiss—may I dare
Say—say—where ?
’Tis a valley, dear Heart,
With two hills soft as snow,
*Tis a garden where one,
Only one, dear, may go,
A garden where wonderful
Gold apples grow.
And the shade of the hills
Is an infinite rest,
And a mouth to those apples
May ever be pressed,
Yet their honey live on : for,
They grow—in thy Breast.
Dear flower, that standest
Sweet sentinel there,
May I come
To my home ?
Understandest ?
My home,
Flower;
Our
Home!
May I dare ?
O Love ! love ! I fear,
For the air is too sweet—
Softly, love—O my dear—
Yea, too sweet
On a sudden to meet
Mortal mouth !
Omy sweet! Omy sweet!
The long drouth !
And at last, dear,
O think—
The long drink !
Richard Le Gallienne.
* n c h r °Ricling the achievements
of Tiger Inglis (whose mother started
him m life with the injunction “ Weel,
♦Jamie, fear God an’ tak’ care o’ yer claes! ”),
with enthusiasm that the sale of
Inglis s lanky Tea reaches 1,000,0001 b. per
annum. This is d propos of—Australian
literature !


Medical,
COUGHS, COLDS ON THE CHEST, BRON-
CHITIS AND ASTHMA RAPIDLY
CURED BY Hearne's Bronchitis cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed
at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any
form of bronchitis, distressing cough, difficulty of
breathing, hoarseness, pain or soreness in the
chest, experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest
it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It
is most comforting in allaying tickling and irrita-
tion in the throat, and giving strength to the voice,
and it never allows a cough or asthma to become
chronic. No house should be without it, as, taken
at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—Your medicine ha 9
cured me of bronchitis and asthma, from which I suffered
for upwards of seven years, during which peri' d I whs
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the diffi-
culty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in
succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other
treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
gettir g very much worse, and at the time I obtained your
medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating bio. d and matter, and
apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of
the medicine gave me welcome relief, and I stearlily
improved as I continued tire treatment, until I he ante,
as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely, 11. WALKER,
Balmain, S.i dnev.”
“ My son, six years old, had bronchitis for 12 months.
The noise in throat and along back of lungs, ai d the
cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices weie used and
plasters were applied to the hack and dust without
success.
“ I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this in divine for about
10 days lie was perfectly cured. —J. PATTERSON,
Solicitor, Tamworth, N.S.W."
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, ai.d we certify that it is per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”-Sigmd
by Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, ai d
69 other leading residents.
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail, by
the pioprietor,
W. G. HEARNE,
CH 10311 ST, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; Large, 4s. Gd. Sold by
chemis s and medicine-vendors. Forwarded by
post to any colony when not obtainable locally.
MANIIOO D.
UUAL'JH, STRHNUTH AND I'/GOR Rl-.S TOR hi
In Four Weeks by the use o/
df
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord s Essence, of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the import ant elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s , or four quantities in one for 06s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope _ _ . ,
Agents for Australasia —Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygien’J, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES I’BaJII'TLV. without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD IN PARTS by
j. F E 2=t PI E
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Use Dr. Utin-s’s*
Infallible‘.Remedies
(POST FREE).
Pile Tabloids
—2/6 and 4/- per Box.
ensure Immediate Kclief
and Absolute Cure of Piles
Toxilene
Cures Quickly and Safely all
Diseases of the Urinary Organs
(both sexes)—4/- and 7/6 per Box.
The Wife’s Friend.
Every woman's
welfare within
her own control. Safe, Efticacious. 10/G per Box.
Confidential correspondence invited. Money
O'ders payable to The King Co , Sole T ro-
prietors and Manufacturess, 54 George-st. West,
SYDNEY, and Box 291 G. 8.0.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
29 York Street,
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Box 920. Registered and Qualified in N.S. W.
XJ AVING devoted 24 years to the research and study
of the SPECIAL CHRONIC NERVOUS and SKIN
Ar FECI lONS of Men and Women, is now prepared to
treat sufferers from the above troubles with an absolute
certainty of success or forfeit ±2OO in all guaranteed
cases, llis success lias been so Extraordinary, both with
male and female, that it has induced many miserable and
unqualified imitators to attempt to follow his tracks, but
the public are hereby warned that bis golden remedies
can be obtained only at the above address. Consultation
Free. Correspondence invited.
Female Fills, certainties, Us, 10s, and £1
(extra strong).
29 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
X_. DIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr,
Speer’s invaluable Female Remedies are
always Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
23 York Street, Sydney.
BOX 920
MS
m
Kr\
7&
&
474
Will Cure
WHEN
Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Beets to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. N o suti'erer, how-
ever poor, need be with-
out one.
If you aie WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address—
Dr. Damont Electric Belt Co.*
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
3XT o Cl tire, 3M' o I* a, y.
a \ //
V\s\K U < L /
\ K
ELECTR°-
belt
u\
ri'HIS is the ONE ami ONLY Electric Belt which will
•1- cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt <*iv« s a steady
soothing out re nt, that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Retimin'er, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will p •rmaneiitly cure
you. If it does not we will promptli return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. - Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list fpost free), which wi 1 <■< -nee the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency.
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street , SYDNEY.
puurai
Rkgistkkkd. A positive
and speedy CURE tor
Consumption,
Catarrh, Colds,
and all Pulmonary Affections.
"t lifts,.
ARE YOU SUFFERING
From weakness of the Nkrvovs System, loss if Noble
Manhood through early errois or exc-sses. If so write
to me and I will s nd yon an absolute cure. Address,
Private, P. 0., Box 347. Sydney. _____
~ MEDICINE SENT TREE
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &c., &c., no
matter how severe tiie Case. Remedy sent in
nlain package. When cured we charge you not
more than £1 ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 399, Sydney.
IT MAY BE SELDOM
5,-shi"
announcements deserve, but in this they would make a great mistake,
AND FOR THIS REASON :
, . .. , , . e QV „ olrpiidv done and can do, as proved by thousands of grateful
SJS3&SS.- W r*lU » hW > “ i; ° M ' U •».yS»»eVo»tL,(..ndtl,.t of your dear one..
Has any
Person Living
tV
11
mi
1
WMM
m
mm
I
K
CURED 344 cases of ERYSIPELAS,
each case in 24 hours, and Merer
Failed in One Case? We have. Or
HYDATIDS for 15 years, and Never
Failed; or BRIGHTS DISEASE,
which is supposed to he incurable;
or RINGWORM in Half a Minutr;
or ever actually cured the LIVER
and KIDNEYS in their Worst States
of Disease; nr MARASMUS in Chil-
dren after All Hopes had been Gicen
Up by all the best medical men ; or
YELLOW JAUNDICE when life was
despaired of; or ECZEMA a ter 35
years' suffering; or ASTHMA alter
25 years’ standing; or DEBILITY at
58 years or any age ? We answer—
WE HAVE CURED ALL
DISEASES,
and we repeat again, WE HAVE;
and can also CURE Scurvy, Bad
Legs, Piles, Diphtheria, and remove
WORMS of all Sorts (Tape, Ring, and
Thread). We cure at once Itch,
Barbers’ Itch, Coughs, Colds, Bron-
chitis, Catarrh in the Head, Blight
and other Diseases of the Eyes,
Varicose Veins, Deafness, and any
other diseases,
WHEN ALT, OTHER TREAT-
MENT FAILS.
We sav again WE HAVE,and having
established a Branch of our Melb.
House in Sydney, we ask the people
of N S W."to TRY US and See for
Themselves the Wonderful Remedies
WE HAVE.
OUR REMEDIES ARE SAFE, SURE, AND MODERATE IN PRICE.
W. MENTIPLAY & SON,
5054 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, & 188 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp'eted his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical ct* Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS Sc SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them, lie
has, by Ids unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
IVi sh to Mai *j g
wh», as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely:—Hrequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth oil to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your ca>e, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of careful y-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STItEET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
Indigestion Cured.
Mr. Jas. H. Decent, of Lenton Grove, Auburn
Park, writes:—“ Suffering as I do at times
from severe attacks of Indigestion, I was induced
to try a bottle of BOOT’S INDIGESTION
CUKE, and I think it is due to you to state that
before I got through the first bottle I had con-
siderable relief, and it is now six weeks since I
took the last dose, and no further symptoms, I
am thankful to say, have troubled me. You
are at liberty to make such use of this as you
think proper, feeling sure that, coming from the
pen of one who is so well-known in the city of
Sydney and the colony generally, it will prove of
good service to you, for I feel that your medi-
cine only requires to be known to be appre-
ciated by the large number of people who suffer
from Indigestion/’
/
TMf 1
'* p osmor»J
DEAFNESS
and Head Noises relieved by using
ir<7.sou’s Common Sense Ear
Drams. New Scientific Invention,
having no wire or string attached.
Safe, simple, comfortable, invisible
Write for Pamphlet. Agent—
JAS. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-st. , Melbourne.
Snakebite Antidote
POCKET CASES.
T-
For Dr. Mueller’s
Successful Treatment of
Snakebite by the Hypo-
dermic Injection of Strych-
nine, with Patent Poison
Sucker, Hypode rm i c
Syrinjrc, two Tubes of
St ryohnine Tabloids, which
will keep for years, and
Full Directions jor Use.
Price, complete, 16s 6d— postage paid to all parts
of Australia.
L. BRUCK, 13 Castlereagh-st., SYDNEY.
Dr. George On Lee,
Chinese Doctor,
23 CARLTON TERRACE, WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
A LL pprsons suffering from any Internal Diseases,
Y Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may hare them
dispersed by medicine without cutting-. Also CURES
Bsc Eyes, Fits and Skin Diseases. He asks no questions,
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs bis
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise. Has prao-
ised 25 years in Sydney. Consultation Fee, 10/6.
ftlarkell’s Pills.
A boon to the suffering, the friend of the household. These
wonderful herbal Pills quickly cure in either sex, all liver,
stomach, bowel and kidney complaints, constipation, biliousness
headaches, &c., blood diseases and female complaints.
Al urkelTs Pills act like magic on the liver, stomach,
bowels and kidneys, stimulate and strengthen all the vital
organs of the body, purify the blood and restore the bloom of
health. I f you are ailing (no matter what cause) try these pills
and you’ll bless the day you did so. Sold a tall chemists and
grocers in the world, Is. per box, with full directions, Use them
'bice and you'll never be •withoutthem •
MANHOOD RESTORED !
In ihe very worst of cases. CERTAIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore voi to health and vigour, no matter
from what cause von suffer, or how bad the case may be.
This truly wonderful medicine acts like a charm, en-
rich in? the bl'-od, ami giving strength to the nerves and
all parts t' at are weak. Without doubt one of the gr arest
medicines cv. r discovered. Suffere s say, I vv-sh I had
known of yon before. Price, 20s. per case ; with all
instructions. By Post to all parts.
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist.
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition), MELBOURNE.
[Rstahlished 187*.]
Tlnpri
Abb
PRESCRIPTIO US
Arc to be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LlFE’’for the Speedy Cure of Nerv-
ousness, Debility, Lost Manhood, and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book
will be sent Free, sealed for Six Fenny Stamps*
Address—
S- WARD AND 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Ladies
Parisian Female Powders restore regu-
larity and remove obstructions without
fail in 48 hours. N<> obstruction can resist them, anci tney
never leave any bad after < ffects. Price 7 6., posted any
colony. Write “SPECIALIST,” G.P.0., Melbourne.
Dr. Cole-Wrig*ht,
M. 8., M.Ch., L.M., etc.,
Qualified and Registered in N.S.W.,
29 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
BOX 979 G.P.0.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES OF MEN & WOMEN.
ALL CHARGES REDUCED BY HALF.
SOME EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
NERVOUSNESS AND DEBILITY AND SEXUAL
WEAKNESS.
“ Your treatment has made a new man of me. I
thank God for having been advised to consult
yon.”— E.R. . ~ ,
“ It is simply marvellous the way in which your
remedies have acted upon me.”—J.H.
“ I am now fully restored. I had - given
up all hope. Accept my warmest thanks.”—
FES
‘‘You have worked wonders. lam surprised
at the moderation of your charges.”—S.M.
C/o 82 View-street, Annandale.
To Dr. Cole- Wright.
Dear Doctor,
For several years I had consulted various
doctors for a troublesome skin disease, which ap-
peared to defy all remedies. On my return from
Western Australia I consulted you. Your treat-
ment acted like a charm upon me. .
I have every reason to be grateful, and bless the
day on which I consulted you.
y Yours truly, JOHN ROBINSON.
Address Box 979 GP O, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited and Consultation Free,
Dr. COLE- WRIGHT’S
female tablets
Nothing causes Girls and Women so muHh Worry and
Pi stress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even m the most
obstinate cases of Obstiucfcion.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
Box 979 G.P.0., Sydney.
GENTS ’ Latest American Preventative-
Simple effectual, last for years. 276 posted.
Write WILLIAM GARFIELD, Collms-Street
West, MELBOURNE.


// irthington Pimping Engine Company ,
n
WORTHINGTON TRIPLE EXPANSION SURFACE
CONDENSING PUMPING ENGINE.
(HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE)
WORTHI NGTON
32 Clarence St.,
TRADE MARh,
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency—Surt-street, South Melbourne.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World.
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
SUITABLE FOR
IRRIGATION
SINKING
MINING
CREAMERIES
GARDEN SUPPLIES
WOOL SCOURING
WOOL DUMPING
WiVTER SUPPLIES
SEWERAGE
MARINE
TANK FILLING
BOILER FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices on application.
Schweppes
To be obtained at
all Clubs, Hotels, and Wine Merchants,
if specially ordered.
SODAWATER, &c.
These Waters are Supplied to the Queen.
Jewellers
Freetrade Prices.
Wholesale Only
BEST ASSORTED STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
Walthams & Rotherhams
A SPECIALITY. Intercolonial and Country Buyers treated liberally.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
2 WYNYARD STREET,
Lazarus, Aronson & Co.,
Sydney.
AFTBR.
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS
Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,”
specifics, etc., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing Manly Vigor in young or
old men. The Homeopathic Treatment- cures in four weeks. All letters sent
sealed. Address, Dr. IRVING CO., 14T Collins St., Melbourne.
w.e.CARLISLE&CO.,
18 BAR RACK STREET,
and at Sydney;
116 JEFFERSON AYE.,
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
K& Agents for American Manufacturers of
BOOTS & SHOES
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand tnediemes have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are sullied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM Manu
factured only at 78 New Oxkorii-st., London. im~ p ur
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Rots
If the address is not 523 Oxford street, London they are
eourious.
business Announcements.
Prof- Loisette's Assimilative Memory :
Or, How to Attend and Nev.-r Forget.
Established nearly a quarter of a Century Incomparable
for students and business pe -p.e. No artificial, mechani-
cal or “ locality ” “associations," but Assimilation only.
Taught by mail in ONbl BOOK (instead of Six, as formerly
used) from this permanent BRANCH only. All agencns
have been abolished. Questions at bottom of page help
out like oral lectures. Endorsed by well-known people in
all civilised countries. For Testimonials and Terms,
address - Prof. A. Loisette, P.O. Box 1234, Sydney, N.S.W
AN t» MIIi.HAKiKS.
To tlie Trade.
Just Landed.— Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestqnality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
varietv of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches,
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &e.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d.; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from our pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 682 George Street, Sydney.
Medical.
R
The Eminent Specialist in all Nervous Diseases.
Registered in England and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
newest American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book. Send
Six Stamps at once. Write your case freely
and confidentially. The charge of ONE
POUND ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace
for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about getting Married ?
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment, and receive prompt
reply Depression of spirits, bashfulness, inability to
look frankly into the eyes of another, headache, hair
coming out, dim sight, noises in head and ears, weak
memory, forgetting persons, names, plaoes, etc., loss
of voice, taste, or smell, sunken eyes, pimples on face,
paleness of face and lips, looks old for years, stunted
in growth, palpitation of heart, pain in or under breast-
bone, shortened breath, indigestion, with depression
after food, constipation or irregular bowels, flatulency,
gravel, weakness or pain across small of back, loss of
muscular power, afraid of something going to happen,
distorted sleep, moaning, talking, grinding teeth,
tearful or want to laugh. Dr. WALLACE, Box 52
Post Office, Park-street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Health
V.
Disease
A Valuable Book FOR MEN,
containing positive proofs'
Doctor's evidence, reference,
and exp ains an abs lute and
Perfect Cure for Lost Manhood,
Premature Decline, Func-
tional Disorders, Kidney and
Bladder Diseases, &c.
Nearly One Hundred pages.
Thi3 Scientific Medical Treatise Posted for 6 Stamps.
Address— APOTHECARIES’ DISPENSARY.
506 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
nLODD POISON
IA SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
jor lcrtiarj BLOOD POISON per-
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You can
| be treated at home for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
s ,.„ m .. “® re we '''j'l contract to pay railroad and
Unship f , are and hotel bills while here, and make
no charge, if we fail to cure. If you have taken
“'® r *' u , r Y> fodtde potash, and still have aches
and pains. Mucous Patches in the mouth, Sore
I hroat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots, TTI-
- on any part of the body. Hair or Eyebrows
out, it is this Secondary BLOOD POI-
‘,. we 5 u:l, antee t 0 cure. We solicit the most
oDstlnate cases and challenge the world for
®“® n ot cone. Physicians cannot
capital behind our uncondi
nr.^iti.f?« rant *^ J Abso,ute Proofs sent sealed on
apphcat 10 ”. Address COOK REMEDY CO..
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A.
p«
AND HEAD-NOISES
CURED
By the ARTIFICIAL EAR CUSHIONS.
Comfortable to wear and Invisible. Ilbigtraied boo!
. T 1 P roofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M
NAST, Burke and Wills Chambers, Collins st., MELB.
READ THIS.
ELECTRIC BELT FREE.
/ How to Obtain It.
Co introduce it and obtain Agents we will give away
a few of our Jielf/ian Electric Kelts for Xer-
rou.sne.ss, Rheumatism, Loss of Vitality, etc., etc.
Write to H. W. RUMMANB, Ag.,,1, it) Imperial
Chambers, 91 Hitt Street, SiDNEY. 1
Enclose Stamp for Reply. Don! Miss This.
SWAGMAN: “Could yet- give us n pipe of tobacco, mate?”
HORSEMAN: “Yes. I can give you some that was made iu America. It’s CAMEKON'S TWO SEAS-the best
smoke in the world!”
SWAGMAN : “My oath, it’s good. I’ve bin try in’ to get it for years.”


T. O o IS !
BEFORE YOU
T . E A ZF» i
When you go out shopping, consider, think
of the money in your pocket, and take account
of the many stores whose various attractions
are laid before you. There is A, with temp-
tation in the form of a pretty show ; there is
B, whose wiles are innumerable ; and C,
who says that he is the man for your money ;
and so on, throughout a list as long as
G-eorge-street, each smiling dealer has some-
thing to say and to offer.
Please Pause!
Hearken not to the song of the syren, sing
she ever so sweetly ; heed not the voice of
the charmer, charm he never so wisely.
Your pocket’s concerned ; and there are
pirates about. As the poet pertinently puts
it: “There be land-sharks and waier-
sharks,” and it is for you to see that your
dealings are with none of these voracious
monsters. Take warning in time, for it will
be no use when the new taxes come round—
and the tax-gatherer won’t take no for an
answer—for you to pie id : There would h ive
been enough and to spare had I been wise
enough to
Buy Everytlirng
AT
ANTHONY HORDERN’S,
ONLY UNIVERSAL I'ltO VI OEItS.
HAYMARKET OIM!_Y).
COLDS, COUGHS,
INFLUENZA,
SORE THROAT
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
ms
Will relieve the most dis-
tressing cough, soothe
the inflamed membrane,
loosen the phlegm, and
induce refreshing sleep.
For the cure of Croup,
Whooping Cough, and all
the pulmonary troubles
to which the young are
so liable, there is no other
remedy so effective as
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral
Made by Dr.J.C.Ayer & Co.,Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
In Half-size Bottles,
And also in large 4/6 size.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
,BQp The name, Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
is prominent on the wrapper and is blown
in the glass of each bottle. Take no cheap
imitation.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCUTCH
(THE celebrated ch.ldren s sweet)
■k
Ja
Lnncrt^Bk
St. John’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserrat
used in i ts prod uction.
Sold. Everywhere.
MIND YOU GET
WOLFE’S
THE ONLY REAL
SCHNAPPS
EPWARDSI
gd
F
T
Si
*
WORLD-RENOWNED
air Producer # Restorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLEHE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
mm
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unr quailed for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
fg
1/-, 2/6 and(triple 2/0 size) 4/6 per Bottle from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
Ask
of all
3oW»
For
BOLL TEA.
56
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ELDRIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANEIIS,
40 YORK ST Kill 10 T, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to. ,
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtaio
that Thorough D ntal Education whioh hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.- Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal. —E. LENTHALL
OLDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria”
GREAT DISTRIBUTION of the LISSON ESTATE,
CONSISTING OF
Sydney, Suburban and Country Freehold Properties. Issue of 119,000 Shares at 10s.
Th.e Ballot will absolutely take place at Hobart on 15tii APRIL, 1096.
Trustees: Hon. ALEX. KETHEL, M.L.C. ; Hon. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.L.C. ... ... ... ... Bankers: BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Value of Property to be Distributed £59,505.
First Prize, £12,850; Second Prize, £10,000; Third Prize, £4420; Fourth Prize, £4080; Fifth Prize, £2800; Sixth Prize, £1450;
Seventh Prize, £1350; and 85 other Prizes, ranging Irom £5O to £1350.
See Prospectus for detailed particulars of Properties. For SHARES and Information apply to
P. M. LISSON, HOBART, TASMANIA; or to
N. J. LISSON, POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, who will act as Agent for the Estate in New South Wales.
Bards of the Baokbloohs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN TOWN.
Where the smoke-clouds scarcely drift
And the breezes seem to sleep,
Where the sunbeams never lift
Half the gloom of alleys deep,
Comrades, must we languish ever,
Beat our hearts against the bars
While the vine-trees kiss the river
And the ranges greet the stars ?
There are stormy tints and tender
In the pictures that we pass ;
But it’s O, for day-dawn’s splendor
And the dewdrops in the grass !
Though the old life fades behinds us,
Though the new life leaps before,
Old-time spells are strong to bind us
Yearning for our yokes of yore;
In the whirl of Toil and Duty,
In the pride of Pomp and Power,
We can find no grander beauty
Than the red West’s bridal dower.
There is music in the rattle
Of the horse-hoofs down the street;
But it’s O, for ringing cattle
And the thunder of their feet!
Wanton Pleasure laughs beside us
Where the life-streams ebb and flow,
Folly’s cap and bells deride us
Nodding close to Want and Woe.
Lordly pageants round us glisten,
At our feet Life’s joys are cast,
But we have no heart to listen
With the Bush-winds whispering past;
Silver nights of love may hold us
Till we half forget the stars ;
But it’s O, for foam-white shoulders
And the clink of snaffle-bars !
W. H. OGILVIE.
AT THE DIGGINGS’ STORE.
Old diggings-mates, who met once more,
He’d been away and learned to shear;
She knew him ere he reached the door,
Though parted now for many a year.
But he’d forgotten—those forget
Who go away—until the name
Called up her face and some regret:
She was the same, and not the same.
Was this girl, now sedate and fair,
i. The same brown Kate who stole with him,
And rode all day old Frenchy’s mare—
The chestnut mare that worked the whim ?
Who helped him hunt for sugar-bags,
Quicker than he to spot the trees ?
Who made a smoke from burning rags,
Whilst he chopped out the buzzing bees ?
And, talking, they went once again
Hunting for specks all down the creek,
And found once more in tropic rain
The two-ounce slug that lucky week
“You bought a filly with your share ;
My colt died out on the Paroo.”
“ Why, Dan, that’s she tied over there —
Grown such a beauty. So have you ! ”
I swore from out the Golden West
A hundred wond’rous things to bring ;
But from that land, fly-, drought-distressed,
Have only brought this golden ring.
“ Don’t care for it ? Won’t take a ring ? —•
A ring has ever murdered love.
Take these, then ; hide —pear-gray’s the thing—
Those pretty fingers in a glove.
“ But what for me in our new times?
A kiss, at least, my old-time mate;
Although for me no love-bell chimes,
’Twould show I’m not forgotten, Kate.”
She laughed, and shook her sunny head—
Laughter from gates of rose and pearl.
“ Look in the cook-book, Dan,” she said,
“To kiss, you first must catch your girl.”
And, as away with streaming tail
Across the flat her pony flies,
She turned a moment. Through the veil
He saw the challenge in her eyes,
And quick into the saddle sprang,
And flew as clouds fly when they pass ;
The hoofs upon the roadway rang,
Then deadened on the short, green grass.
On broken ground at such a pace
Is surely riding for a spill ;
The girl is down ! That ends the race;
Her horse is up—the girl lies still.
Ah, joy has speech, but here with Death
What words avail ? His eyes o’er-ran ;
He stooped to catch the last faint breath. . . .
“ You’ve—caught —me —won’t you—kiss me
Dan ? ”
Q.
R.A.F.
No linotypes have yet reached Adelaide,
but the compositors live in fear and trembling.
The anarchist Wengler, who hanged him-
self in Richmond Park (Eng.), left a letter in
which he said, “Eond was I of cleanliness, but
society prevented me.” His body was so unclean
that the police undressed it with tongs.
Post-mortem examinations show that the
nerves in the finger-tips of the blind have well-
defined cells of grey matter similar to the grey
matter of the brain. In fact, the blind develop
brains in their fingers.


Australian Mutual
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT. K.C.M.G.. M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, E«q., Deputy Chairman
J. T. WALKER. E-q. ; THUS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. VV. MEEKS, Esq., J.P. ; ROUT. J. KING ; E<q.
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEEC'E, F.I.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ANNUAL INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Twelve Millions and a-Half Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1801 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over £423,021
yieldin'; Reversionary Bonuses of about £850,000.
Head Office: 87 RITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
A Good Carver wants a good knife. We think we have
as good a stock of Cutlery as any house
in Sydney, and we want your opinion
about our think, Call on us if you
want anything in this line, or anything
else in Hardware. Have just landed
the new L.B and C. Bread Knife, which
is a revelation, price 1/3 —the old style
has now got to go. Razors, hollow
ground, from 1/6 upwards.
M‘Lean Bros. & Higg Ltd., 512-14 George-st., Sydney.
PARKER’S
Australian Hair Preserver.
Those who use it will never
become Bald.
* » *
It entirely removes Dandruff.
* * *
It promotes the Growth of the
Hair.
* * *
Ladies will find it a perfect
boon ; it is not a dye—it
is not sticky or greasy.
One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
K
wwm shoei
.
J
I
This pure and excellent
remedy is now under Vice-
Regal patronage, and is used
by leading ladies of the colony
with most gratifying results.
If not procurable from your Chemist or Storekeeper, SAMPLE BOTTLE will be sent to you on
receipt of 3/6 in Money Order or Stamps. Testimonials from well-known citizens forwarded on
application to
J. CURTIN, Sole Agent, 84 Market Street, SYDNEY.
B1AI»
bv w an wr onu3
MARK
Peg
The
486.488&490GE0RCE STREET. SYDNEY.
AUSTRAL CLOTHIERS & OUTFITTERS.
SAC SUIT
To Measure,
455.
FROM
KAIAPOI, OAMARU, GEELONG,
SCOTCH, and Best
N.S.W. TWEED 3, SKR JERETTE,
INDIGO SERGES,
BLACK and BLUE CORKSCREWS.
Boys’ Unrivalled School Suits 4/11
(50 different Patterns)
Boys’ Blue Serge Sailor Suits 4/11
(Trimmed Gold or Black)
The Largest Juvenile Clothing Stock in the
Southern Hemisphere.
BEST QUALITIES AT LOWEST PRICES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST, PATTERNS, TAPE and MEASURE FORM.
All Parcels Carriage Paid by Boat, Rail or Post.
T&O -A.ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STK vM
Cultivatin j
Machinery.
M
• V •
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po: table Railway
Lo comoti ves ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HK'AD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY .
WALTER M. NOAKES, Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “ THISTLE ” OIL ENGINE.
WHITELAW & CO.,
155 Sw.»nstcn-street, Melbourne, BOOT & SHOE MANUFACTURERS,
On receipt of remittance forward, carriage paid to any address in Victoria (other colonies, 1/- extra),
any of their specialties in Boots and Shoes, catalogues of which will
be sent on application. Their Hand-made Boots do not creak, are
flexible in the sole, have no nails, pegs, or tacks whatever to wound
the foot, they do not require bieaking in, being smooth and clean
inside.
The RATIONAL, a strong, serviceable country boot
~ UNIVERSITY, a town walking and business boot
~ HORSE-SKIN, a wide-welt, first class winter boot
~ American-dressed Russia and Ooze Calf Boots
MACH IN R-SEWN BOOTS from 10s. 6d,
16/-
21/-
22/6
21/-
df
Whether you live one mile o’r
1000 away, we guarantee to fit
you. Our Self ■ measurement
System is perfect. Write us for
Patterns. Self - measurement
Forms and Tape. Free postal
delivery any distance. Serges
sp cialh manufactur dforusby
one of tire leading home houses
from 455.
S. M. BAUMASHE,
Manager.
London & Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 & 33 Erskine Street. SYDNEY.
31
H fl
B s
(D HI
P
ui
C
4
(5
et
0
455.
Business Announcements, __
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute
98 King Street, SYDNEY.
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFELIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes: —“The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest praeticts in tlie world. . . Die
scale on which they work enatdes them to employ both
capital and labor in the most eff ctive and economical
way, and content themselves with a reasonable prolit on
each individual transaction. Being able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the best materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
J 3?" Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King St-eet, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
BrI)JN E 1, JS .8. w ALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. \V. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
lyrn. AUBREY DAVIS, Dentist, nf 492 George-
Ifl street (Royal Arcade), SYDNEY, has spared no
expense in fitting-up his luxurious consulting rooms with
the latest dental appliances. The Operating Chair is a
work of art, in which ihe patient can be raised, lowered,
or placed in any required position by hydraulic power.
Extraction is performed painlessly without Ether or
Chloroform, by spraying the gum with a new local
anesthetic—“ Chloride of Ethyl." Artificial teeth of the
best quality are fitted at prices not much more than half
the rates commonly charged a few years ago.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 GEORGE STREET,
s Y D N B Y.
Specialties JUST ARRIVED for the XMAS
Trade.
H. L. Hutchinson ... Manager,
m HE LAST OF SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Public Companies^
INSURE with A CO LONIAL COMPANY.
City Mutual Fire
I.NMJRIXCE COMI’ASf. Wmlted.
HEAD
OFFICE
gd
95
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Chairman:
JOHN SEE Esq., M.P. (late Colonial Treasurer.)
The CITY MUTUAL Fire Company is a purely
Australian institution, having a large and in-
fluential body of shareholders, all closely identified
with and contributing to the prosperity of Aus-
tralia. All funds invested in the colony. Rates
are lowest. Settlements prompt and equitable.
A Cash Bonus paid Insurers every year.
ROBERT KERR, Mnnnf/er.
gg- Transacts FIRE insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., £8478 —divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making £82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney
KELSO KING, Seoretary.
Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
RESERVE & INVESTMENT FUNDS, £117.030.
UNCALLED CAPITAL, £73,000.
PURELY a COLONIAL OFFICE, deriving
its income from New South Wales only, no risks
being taken outside the colony.
A BONUS of 20 PER CENT, has been paid
annually since 1873, divided between Policy-
holders and Shareholders. The amount thus dis-
tributed totals £118,651.
Claims promptly and liberally settled. FIF-
TEEN DAYS’ GRACE allowed for Renewal
of Policies —a protection afforded by no other
Fire Insurance Company.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets, Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Passenger Policies for Travellers In-
suring against Accidents & Shipwreck.
Australian Branch; W. M'Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide: P. P. Plummer. L. A. Jeksop, Director.
Melbourne: D. Clynb. Brisbane: T. VVelsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
58 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
1
£
A
I •
i
-»
hSarySTiSsis LY-on w ;r„d; e Y dis fe pi
Simply that “YANKEE DOOnTE” h t wu COI)t ? ver t * lat last year. And why is this!
yea,? pf careful study frem **«P* «*•«. *. comes, after
exquisitely flavoured, that any M r C canted ° h ?T Ylr *'™™ tobaccos, so blended and
forced to admit that he has at last discovered soL/hi™ f toba “ o heav ' el ; than the pure gold-leaf is
been accustomed to. DIXSON & SON'S hivp X K f ‘? r and awa y better than anything he has
their leading business h« been built un on their ft” f 0 accom P lish this; and, as
make the foregoing statement if any doubt Existed P LIX SOnTsOnV Y \ thpy °° uld ? 0t fford tC
than all the other Tobaeco Factones ZK ’ , w & SONS who use more American leaf
QUEROR,” “SIR ROGER,” “CHAMPION” and “nm h,^ lass brands:—“CON.
ranks supreme. ’ lAAltioiN > aud DOLLAR;” but “YANKEE DOODLE’


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 17.—N0. 840.
SATURDAY, MARCH 21, 1896.
Price, (3d.
A NEW WAY TO PAY OLD DEBTS.
"While Mr. Reid was visiting the Hillgrove Public School yesterday, the children gave three cheers for him, and the Premier at once called for three cheers for Sir Henry
Parkes as the main author of the N.S. Wales system of public instruction. The cheers were led by the Premier himself, and were heartily given. —Daily t aper.
PARKES AS PARKES : “Ow very hopportune! I will pass the cheers on to my batcher and baker."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bloletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 01% 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where re< ± ui ed—
which you may pay by Post Ogee Order, Postal A ate,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian produce,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drajts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
• Correspondence ” column' all centrum ions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enc osed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly unuei stand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilacJe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— %.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 81 Fleet Street, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street 6c Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — ll. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual l sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is notv £l, with Bs. 2d.
added for postage. England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
SATURDAY, MARCH 21, 1896.
To the People of Victoria.
Next August fourteen out of the Forty-
eight Rich Landlords who comprise the
Victorian Legislative Council retire by
effluxion of time, and in the ordinary course
of affairs they will all be re-elected in Sep-
tember, and return to block progress for
another six years. Since the present order
of things was established in 1881, the same
gang of fossils has held possession of the
Council ■with the dismal persistence of a
petrified man on a rock, and under the
system which prevailed before that date of
alleged reform they were equally persistent.
Death has shifted a few now and then, but
otherwise they have been practically im-
moveable. The Assembly comes and goes ;
its changes reflect the constant changing of
public opinion as the old order of things
gives place to the new ; but the Council, to
all intents and purposes, goes on for ever.
The list of its members sounds like a slab of
ancient history. Balfour, M. L. C. , dates from
’74 ; Brown from ’B4 ; Baronet Clarke from
’7B ; Coutts from ’B2; Nicholas Fitzgerald
from ’64—when the French empire was in its
glory, and the French troops occupied Rome,
and the Confederacy was still holding its own
at Richmond, and Sadowa and Sedan were
unthought of. Cornelius Job Ham has in-
fested the Upper House for 14 years ;
M‘Culloch for 16 years ; Sargood has been
there off and on for 22 years ; and Zeal, in
an intermittent fashion, for the same period.
There are hardly any new, or comparatively
new, members, save where some very aged
fossil has dropped away into the grave, with-
out becoming much deader than he was
before, and made a vacancy. And there are
hardly any new ideas. The Forty-eight Rich
Landlords are elected by the people, or by a
large section of them, but they are hardly
ever opposed ; when they are opposed, it is
mostly by some other dull fossils of the same
familiar type, and the struggle is just as in-
teresting as a conflict between an oyster and
a stalactite. The nation takes little interest in
Council elections, and lets things slide ; and,
therefore, the Victorian Upper House is the
most solid, reliable, and brutally arrogant
stumbling-block in Australasia.
* » * *
Up to date no political association has ever
made a serious attempt to capture the Coun-
cil in the liberal and progressive interest.
Neither has any attempt been made to sys-
tematically run liberal candidates against the
stolid, selfish capitalists who have so long
. held the fort in the interests of Toryism. No
person or party has systematically stumped
the Council constituencies when a new elec-
tion was in progress, and tried to rouse the
people to an interest in the matter. A
considerable proportion of people in Victoria
are almost unaware that their Council is an
elective - body, and their only idea of dealing
with that obstructive institution is that the
Government should “do something.” The
Council never dissolves as the Assembly
does ; its members hold office for six years, a
proportion retiring every second year, and
as the retiring members go out unobtrusively,
with no political crisis, or upheaval, or
general appeal to the people, or issue of con-
flicting political programmes, the great mass of
the population hardly know that they have
retired. Those who do hardly care. It is
impossible to sweep away the old order of
things in one election ; the most that can be
done, if the people do wake up, is to return
a small party of democrats next September,
and another party in September, 1898, and
then, if none of the first batch of democrats
fall away in the meantime, the party of pro-
gress will have a small majority. If some of
them do fall away, the democratic majority
may be arrived at in September, 1900, pro-
vided the people can keep awake so long,
and then it may be possible to reform the
Council, making it a body of paid legislators
with no property-qualification, and resting
on a manhood-suffrage basis. But, just
because the process of reform is slow, no one
has ever commenced it. The property-qualifi-
cation makes it more difficult to find liberal
and progressive candidates for the Upper
House than for the Lower, and because they
are so much more urgently wanted no one
has made any systematic effort to find them.
There is at present no salary and little pro-
spect of a portfolio and little room for ambi-
tion attached to the billet of an M.L.C., so
politicians and parties leave it severely alone.
The Upper House is a preserve for old, dull
capitalists who pay themselves handsomely
by preventing the imposition of taxes on
their big estates, by rejecting bills which
would make trouble for their rotten com-
panies, and grinding their own axes gener-
ally, and, so far as present signs go, it seems
likely to remain that way.
* * * *
The cause of this state of things lies
wholly with the people of Victoria. Even
the proviso that an M.L.C. must possess land
nominally worth £lOO per annum does not
make it impossible to find 48 liberal and
enlightened men to fill the seats of the Upper
House, if the nation only takes the trouble
to seriously look for them. And, despite the
restricted franchise, there is abundant voting
power to return 48 liberal M’sL.C. if the
Victorian elector could only be persuaded to
exercise his franchise and do it intelligently.
There are now 153,000 electors qualified to
vote at Council elections, and 229,000 quali-
fied to vote at Assembly elections—in other
words, there are 153,000 qualified to vote at
elections for both Houses, and 76,000 more
who have votes for Assembly elections only.
At last general election fully three-fourths of
the votes polled were for candidates who
professed to advocate an energetic liberal
policy, and assuming that the comparatively
small proportion which did not vote was
similarly disposed, this means that 170,000
electors were in favor of reform, and ‘ not
more than 60,000 constituted the party of
stagnation. Assuming that all these 60,000
Conservatives had votes for the Council elec-
tions, this still implies that a considerable
majority of the electors of the Stagnant
Chamber are in favor of everything which
that Chamber is opposed to, and against all
its fetishes, principles, ideas, traditions, and
little tin-gods generally. But this majority,
which was so compact and enthusiastic when
the Assembly elections were on the board, was
utterly indifferent when the usual batch of
Councillors retired. No effort was made to
find candidates in accord with the popular
principles ; hardly one fossil of them all was
seriously opposed ; there was no enthusiasm,
no energy, no manifestation of interest. The
old crowd were sent back, or allowed to drift
back, by the electors, to deliberately undo
everything which the same people had or-
dered the other House to do. The Assembly
had an active and definite mandate from the
electors to uproot many ancient abuses ; the
Council had a passive and indefinite mandate
from most of the same electors to preserve
those abuses, and the majority of them re-
main accordingly.
* * * *
In the Coalition days, when the Assembly
was also a Tory institution of the worst
type, this somnolence on the part of the
electors mattered little or nothing. Now it
matters, a great deal. Within the last few
months the Vic. Council has destroyed the
Factories Bill, a measure urgently demanded
for the suppression of the sweating evil ; it
wrecked the Companies Bill, by flatly refus-
ing to pass the clause making directors re-
sponsible for false balance-sheets, lying pro-
spectuses, bogus reports, and other fraudulent
documents issued by them to shareholders,
whereby these deluded people may be re-
duced to beggary ; it rejected the land-tax ;
it came within an ace of casting out the
Federation Bill because the Assembly would
not formally acknowledge its right to exer-
cise equal power in money matters ; it all but
wrecked the Railway Bill ; and it threw out
the Woman’s Suffrage Bill bodily. It is
sharpening its teeth now to destroy the
Factories, Companies, Woman’s Suffrage,
and State Land Bank Bills next session, and
if the people do not organise and throw out
every Tory obstructionist among the fourteen
M’sL.C. who offer themselves for re-election
next September, and Sargood, the chief
obstructionist, most of all, they will deserve
whatever may happen to them.
* * * *
The position of the Victorian Government,
as things now stand, is wholly anomalous.
It has a mandate from the people to pass a
large number of urgent reforms, and it has
passed almost all of them in accordance with
its promise and so far as its power extended.
It did so, well aware that in most cases it
was merely wasting time and labor, and
that its work would be destroyed in the
other Chamber, where the nation was too
tired to give it any support. It is the butt
of Tory gibes because it wasted time and
energy on this hopeless legislation, and if it
had let the legislation rest, merely because it
was hopeless, it would probably have been
ejected from office for gross neglect of its
pledges. It has been cursed largely and
copiously for not “ bringing pressure to
bear ” on the Council over which it has no
control whatever ; the people who want
it to bring pressure to bear are the Council’s
masters, yet they refuse, seemingly from utter
indifference and want of interest, to call that
institution to account themselves. It has
been arraigned for not dissolving the
Assembly and taking the sense of the people
upon its rejected and mutilated measures,
as Premier Reid did in New South Wales,
quite regardless of the fact that the sense
of the people, as taken at an Assembly
election, can influence the elective Council
just as much as it can Biela’s comet.
The only popular expression of opinion
which the Upper House will listen to, or has
any constitutional right to listen to, is that
which the people express at its own elections,
and if they won’t express it there then the
position of the Upper House is logical and
partly justifiable. And the Turner Govern-
ment has been denounced as weak and
truckling because it made large concessions
to the Council and sacrificed parts of its
measures to secure the remainder, which
denunciation comes with an ill grace seeing
that the Council’s position is absolutely
impregnable so long as the people per-
sistently re-elect Sargood and Zeal and
Reid and the other autocrats to a position
where the 'Government has no shadow of
control over them. Of the fourteen old,
hardened politicians who go up for re-elec-
tion in a few months’ time, there is hardly
one, who does not require prompt and re-
morseless rejection. If the democrats of
Victoria will associate themselves together
now to find a progressive candidate for each
one of thirteen constituencies, and to rouse
the electors to fighting condition, there may
be thirteen snags the less in the Upper House
six months from now. Otherwise the chance
will not come again until 1898, and by that
time the present wave of energy may have
partly expended itself, and Victoria may
have to wait for years before a new impulse
comes along.
Still Plainer English.
Dear Bulletin,— The chief difficulty in dis-
cussing with the Advanced Woman that sex-
question round which she is continually sniffing
is that she dives too deeply into matters, and
yet not deeply enough—handles the subject
with a placidly brutal frankness which could
only be encountered on my part with such a
still more naked presentation of facts as would
render me absolutely unprintable in a disre-
putable paper of general circulation like The
Bulletin. In reply to one or two of the
numerous persons whom my “ Bit of Very
Plain English ” has moved unto hysterics, 'I
shall, however, sad as near the wind as you
will let me, or as your readers will be likely
to stand.
* * * *
“ ‘ Heretic,’ ” writes “ Democrat,” “ tries to
prove that polygamy is necessary for men,
while monogamy is the correct” thing for
women.” “ Heretic ” tried to prove nothing of
the sort. “Heretic” merely gave it as his
personal opinion that, whereas some animals
are naturally monogamous and some poly-
gamous, man is included in the latter category
and nothing that has been advanced by any of
your irate correspondents has in the slightest
degree shaken the argument upon which
I based that opinion. It is, in fact
an argument which cannot be shaken :
but it can be shirked—and your cor-
respondents have carefully shirked it ac-
cordingly. And let me say here that the
women who have taken up the cudgels in this
matter appear, one and all, to fall into the mis-
take of supposing me to be an advocate of pro-
miscuous sensuality—even if I am not myself
an immoral and lascivious beast. They are
apparently unequal to the idea that the holding
of a certain biologic theory proves nothing one
way or the other about my personal proclivities
which are, as a matter of fact, strictly mono-
gamic. Heaven defend me from more than one
wife ! But that’s no reason why another man
shouldn’t have thirty, if he feels ‘ himself equal
to the contract.
* * * *
My main contention was that Nature cares
nothing tor how man may regard woman, or for
what woman may think about man—nothing
whatever in short, about the feelings of the
individual, except in so far as those feelings may
conduce to physical union and the reproduction
of the species. “ The by-play of ovum-bearing
organisms, once wrote your own “ Brigham
Brown. ’ That is what we are, cosmicallv •
and not one whit more can be made of us bv
any quantity of illogical shriekings based
mostly upon the argument that what’s un-
pleasant must be untrue. Humanity, in a
word, presents a bad case of “swelled head,’
and will always turn furiously to rend the sac-
rilegious wight who, though endowed with the
ordinary passions and sensibilities of his kind,
is yet able to comprehend that such individual
exercitations—except in so far as they impel
him towards life-transmission —are of abso-
lutely no more importance to the universe than
the cogitations of a cockroach or the anger of
an oyster.
* * » *
“ It is my great good fortune,” writes “ Mel-
bourne” (a lady), “to know several men to
whom chastity and reverence for womanhood
are not mere empty names, but an integral part
of themselves.” Now, to say nothing of the
fact that this was mere ex parte assertion on
the part of the men in question, or mere ex parte
assumption on the part of their friend, the
lady, why should one man be a rule for another,
or why should I—who, while I see much in
woman calling for tender consideration, can
discover nothing in her to “ revere ” —he ex-
pected to adjust myself to the mental stature of
a man who, “ considering a woman’s body the
temple of her soul,” not only gratuitously
assumes the existence of a “ soul,” but is
unable to see that, soul or no soul, the body is
only of importance as the potential producer of
other bodies ? “Not a mere machine for pro-
ducing children.” Far—very far from it!—in
my estimation, as in that of many men holding
similar opinions, but in the procession of pheno-
mena—the general biologic scheme—exactly
that and nothing more a child-producing
machine 1
* * * *
The terms “reverence” and “worship,” as
applied to woman, are neither more nor less
than an insult to her understanding, and the
women who most greedily swallow such fustian
are in any case the least worthy of that respect
which a manly man will never grudge to a
womanly woman. Women were never more
absolutely men’s puppets and chattels than
when the fantastic gyniolatry of “chivalry”
was at its height, and it is within the know-
ledge of every man of the world that beneath
the most deferential demeanour towards women
may lurk a much heartier contempt for the sex
than is possible to a man who, seeing in woman
no more than a somewhat sophisticated edition
of man, sees also no reason why she shouldn’t
hear a little of the truth about herself. He
will be a “ brute ” and a “ bear,” of course, but
he may be safely backed against the other sort
to do a woman a real service at a pinch. A
woman of sense, also—knowing in her secret
heart that she is no more of a goddess than
man is of a god—will despise the man who
really thinks otherwise, and thoroughly distrust
the man who only pretends to do so.
* * * *
“ They believe ” —these men whom it is
“ Melbourne’s ” great good fortune to know —
“ that the sexual function exists for one pur-
pose only—procreation.” I am pleased to find
that the confidence thus tenderly reposed in
“ Melbourne ” —whom I take to be very, very
young—by her gentlemen friends entirely coin-
cides with my own opinion already expressed ;
but when they further characterise polygamy
as the “ death-knell of every domestic and
social virtue,” they talk unmitigated twaddle
—contradicted, if by nothing else, by the
history of the Bible patriarchs, who, to a
plurality of regulation wives, added, appar-
ently with Jehovah’s entire approval, an
auxiliary establishment of concubines. In con-
nection with which latter relation it is too
often forgotten that a nominally monogamous
community has sometimes been a practically
polygamous one, like the “Saxons” (probably
intended for the Germans under Herman)
whom “Democrat” most unluckily cites as
having defeated the virtually monogamous
Romans. And if, as “ Democrat” professes to
find authority for asserting, 80 per cent, of men
are “ diseased through obedience to their
polygamic instincts,” my whole case is con-
ceded. Their polygamic instincts !
* * * *
The confusion of ideas under which your
correspondents labor is not, perhaps, remark
able, considering their sex, but it renders them
vastly more difficult to deal with than persons
who should have a less hazy idea as to what
constitutes a legitimate argument. I am asked
by one of them, for instance, how I “ intend to
work out my plan logically.” My plan?
Nature’s plan !—let her work it out ! Does this
risqude , but sloppy-minded, person imagine fora
moment that I had not foreseen the stereo-
typed objection—“ Polygamy for some women
means polyandry for others.” Even were this
so, it would not in the least affect my position.
It is a knot which I am in no way bound to
untie. Normality everywhere postulates a
correlative abnormality, and, if there were no
such thing as disease, the word “health ” would
have no meaning. It is indisputable, however,
that, even under monogamic conditions, very
many more women are born into the w'orld than
there are men to mate with them, and it is a
further significant fact that amongst the chil-
dren of many mothers by one father the pro-
portion of girls to boys is as 4 to 1, instead of
as, in the monogamic relation, 6 to 5. The very
word “polygamy,” also, appears to be mis-
construed as synonymous with sexual excess.
As a matter of fact, it is, as far as the woman
is concerned, much less conducive thereto than
monogamy. The single wife has much less
chance of abstinence than the wife who is one
of a dozen.
* * » *
To sum up. Nature, in order to ensure the
persistence of existence, has implanted in all
animals a certain imperative instinct, around
which naked impulse Man has wrapped a ves-
ture of sentiment which serves to make him,
for the time, lose sight of the hard physiological
fact which is that sentiment’s only raison
d'etre. But the root-fact is always there, audit
is upon that fact—caring nothing for the trap-
pings—that Nature depends for the fulfilment
of her great purpose. Which purpose she can
accomplish perfectly well without the slightest
assistance from what is called “ love.” And it
is because polygamy and love are assumed to
be incompatible that I have been so ferociously
attacked for asserting that Nature, while pro-
testing violently against polyandry, gives no


sign whatever that polygamy is out of her nor-
mal course. But, since not one of my assailants
has denied, or can deny, these facts, my deduc-
tion that man is a polygamous animal remains
undisturbed by all the protestive screeching
of those who think he oughtn’t to be. '1 hey
weren’t consulted.— Heretic.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
N.S.W. Lands Act Puzzles.
Even the magnum opus of the Reid Govern-
ment —the Lands Act—when it is put into ope-
ration, is found to be as full of flaws as most
preceding Lands Acts have been. About the
biggest undertaking under the new Act, so far,
has been the reappraisement of the rents of
Western Division leases and license fees. This
reappraisement is provided for by two sections
—9 and 53. One sub-section of section 9—and
the most important of all, because it directs the
Land Boards how to proceed—says :
The Local Land Board shall determine anew the rate of
rent or license fee, and shall take into consideration the
cost of carriage to and from the land held under lease or
license, for any depreciation in the values of stock or of
wool, and for any diminution of the average annual carry-
ing capacity of such land caused by the devastation of
rabbits.
How any board is to take into consideration
the cost of carriage for any depreciation in the
values of stock, &c., remains a mystery. As it
stands, the sub-section is absolutely nonsensical.
The other section—s B—is not nonsense ; it
simply admits of about eight different con-
structions, any one of which is equally sane :
In any appraisement or reappraisement under this or
the principal Act the rent or license-fee of the holding in
respect of which such appraisement or reappraisement is
made shall be assessed irrespective of the unexhausted
value of improvements then existing on such holding, and
effected or owned by the lessee. The unexhausted value
means the fair cost of making the improvement less
depreciation in value from use or otherwise.
What does the farrago mean? Does it mean
that the boards are to fix the rents as though
there were no improvements? Does it mean
that the lessee or licensee is to be charged only
what the land would be worth if there were no
improvements upon it ? Or does it mean that
the boards must go ahead, not paying any atten-
tion at all to improvements, but working upon
the basis of the carrying capacity without res-
pect to the artificial means by which the carry-
ing capacity may have been increased I Or
does it mean that the boards, while they may
take into consideration the value given to land
by improvements in the increase of its carrying
capacity, are not to charge rent for the improve-
ments themselves ? Take a case. A station
without improvements would carry one
sheep to six acres. The owners improve it by
wells, &c., so that it carries one sheep to
three acres. Are or are not the boards to
have regard to those improvements, whose
real “ unexhausted value” is, it will be
seen, the doubling of the carrying capacity,
though their “unexhausted value” by this
law is something entirely different? Are they,
in sho. to assess the rent of the land as carrying
one sheep to three acres, or as carrying one sheep
to six acres ? It is pretty certain that it was
intended to impress upon the boards to act in a
particular way (for this section was not in the
original draft), but the Legislature has left it in
doubt which of the two or three principal ways
it did mean. The fact appears to be that a
country member who is credited with knowing
something more than usual about the land-laws
and the country’s requirements submitted the
clause, and Minister Carruthers, who is less
of an expert than most of the members,
accepted it without asking necessary questions,
dreading, no doubt, to expose his ignorance.
The Reason Why.
When the Victorian Upper House threw out
the most essential part of the Companies Bill,
old James Service made the truly grievous
mistake of giving reasons for the action. As
the reasons were wholly selfish and mostly
foolish, this was a violently rash proceeding.
L’he conflict arose over those clauses which made
the directors of a co. liable for false, fraudulent,
or deceptive statements issued by them to the
shareholders or the public. If the prospectus
contained glaring lies, or the report of the
board was one long, continuous Ananias, or
the balance-sheet showed the concern to be
solvent and beautifully prosperous when it was
nothing of the kind, the directors who signed
and uttered these delusions were to be
held directly responsible for them, and
for any loss arising through them unless
they could show good reason to the con-
trary. But the onus of showing "ood reason
to the contrary was to rest on the board ; it
was to be regarded for the future as a collec-
tion of sane business men who knew what they
were about, and the law was to assume that
they were morally responsible for their own
acts, unless they could prove that they were
not. It was just here that old James Service
came in. In a voice of deep emotion he pointed
out that if this sinful, revolutionary measure
were passed it would actually “render a
director liable for everything he put his name
to,” and when the Council— which consists
largely of directors—woke up to this dreadful
state of things it threw out the essential part
of the Bill there and then. And now the
public wants to know badly why a director
shouldn’t be responsible, like all other people,
for everything—absolutely everything—that
he puts his name to ; if he isn’t pre-
pared to be responsible, why does he
put his name there ? The director is
elected and paid by the shareholders to look
after their business. If he doesn’t look after it
and know all about it he is an ordinary swindler
who gets his fees under false pretences. If lie
says he knows all about it, and signs a report
and balance-sheet setting forth that everything
is quite sound, when he really has no distinct
idea whether things are sound or not, he is a
swindler in the first place for taking fees for
work which he hasn’t done ; he is a liar in the
second, for saying he knows things which lie
really doesn’t know ; and in the third place,
he is an ordinary confidence shark, seeing that
he tacitly invites all manner of people to put
their money into a concern which he, actively or
passively, guarantees to be sound, without
taking the trouble to know if it is sound or not.
And when, in addition to his other sins, he
knows his concern to be unsound, and either
suppresses or denies the fact, then he is a still
low'er kind of criminal and deserves ten
years’ incessant stone breaking. Will James
Service, M.L.C., give even one coher-
ent reason why the director shouldn’t be
responsible for everything he puts his name to ?
Or will any of the horrified directors who
promptly voted the clause out offer a reason?
If they are honorable men, who only propose
to put their names to statements wiiich they
know to be true, they have nothing to fear.
Does their attitude, then, signify that they know
themselves to be men who, for the sake of their
fees, put their names to assurances which they
don’t know to be true, or wdiich they know to
be absolutely false —who knowingly or reck-
lessly delude poor people into putting their
savings into shoddy enterprises —wdio issue false
balance-sheets and delusive reports, and lend
their respectable names to prospectuses which
can’t stand inspection ; and that they dare not
make themselves liable for their acts because
the consequences w’ould be ruinous ? And if it
doesn’t mean that, then what does it.mean ?
The Dean Case.
The N. S. W. Chief
Justice in Regina v.
Kops, 1893 :
No such question could
have been raised before the
passing of the 55 Vic. No.
5. Section 6of that Act
for the first time rendered
it possible for an accused
person to give evidence on
his own behalf, and thus
introduced into our system
o f criminal procedure some-
thing quite novel to that
procedure. It is not, there-
fore, to be much wondered
at if some uncertainty exists
as to the exact meaning of
the Legislature’s intention
and the full scope of this
important measure.
The N.S.W. Chief
Justice in Regina v.
Dean, 1896 :
At the time the Act of
1883 came into force it con-
tained within its four cor-
ners provisions allowing
persons to give evidence on
their own behalf. They
could give evidence on their
own behalf. They could
give evidence in cases of
bigamy, where the punish-
ment was seven years’ penal
servitude, and he found, on
a cursory view of the Act,
no less than seven sections
providing that prisoners
migh't give evidence in cases
where the punishments were
for five, ten, and fourteen
years, and it could not be
successfully contended that
prisoners who had given
evidence on their own be-
half did not come under the
words he had cited.
The Liberty of the Subject.
The Factories Act was finally knocked out by
the Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords
because the provisions for the abolition of
sweating were a gross interference with “the
liberty of the subject.” The subject about
whom the House of Landlords professed to be
thus harassed in its mind was not the sweating
employer, but the sweated ; the clauses
fixing a minimum—a very moderate minimum—
rate of pay would grievously interfere with the
subject’s present liberty to do the work for less
money and toil 16 hours a day in a hovel to
make up the deficiency in wages, and it would
also interfere with the other subject’s liberty to
take the job at a still lower rate, and so on ad
infinitum. Which tender consideration suggests
quite a lot of things. The first suggestion of a
law for the prevention of cruelty to animals
was greeted with a shriek of derision from
just such another Upper House, because
it would interfere with the liberty of the
subject to light a fire under his horse
or knock the eye out of his donkey with
a board and a nail at the end of it. The
first attempt to suppress wife-beating was met
with the same dull, old argument —it was a
gross interference with the liberty of the hus-
band to whack his own lawful property, and
also with the liberty of the wife to be
whacked by her owner and master whenever he
felt so inclined. The laws relating to infectious
diseases, when they were first suggested,
aroused once more the dreary whoop of woe,
and the idea of interfering with anybody’s
right to have typhus or smallpox or cholera in
a densely-crowded neighborhood aroused Sar-
good’s far-back progenitor to frenzy. When it
was proposed to make education compulsory,
the voice of another ancient James Service
was raised in defence of the right of every man
to keep his offspring in whatever state of igno-
rance he thought best. There were fat and
greasy utterances raised in defence of the right
of children aged 7 or 8 years to work 12 hours
or more per diem in coal-pits ; and the right
of every human being to be dirty, ignorant,
or oppressed, to toil long hours for low pay, to
be flogged, to be starved to skin and bone, to
be stunted and misshapen through heavy, con-
tinuous toil in early childhood, and to be ab-
jectly miserable in every possible way, has been
defended at different times on the ground that
the “liberty of the subject” must be preserved.
The Vic. Upper House is only following in the
same old rut where all the fools and bigots of
all the past ages have gone. But it is not con-
sistent, even in its bigotry. It holds that the
liberty of the subject to be sweated and under-
paid is inalienable, and it destroyed the Fac-
tories Bill accordingly. But when ic was
offered the inalienable privilege of being fined
or sent to gaol or cast in heavy damages for
being a director of a fraudulent company it re-
fused with a shudder. Yet that is also part of
the liberty of the subject. If the subject isn’t
at liberty to be gaoled for swindling, what is
his liberty worth ?
The New South Wales free-newspaper postage
swindle is still worked vigorously. For in-
stance, you get your electioneering sheet, or
the trade-circular which it suits you to call a
newspaper (and which on its merits would have
absolutely no sale, and, therefore, no circula-
tion) heavily subsidised by a political party,
or by big advertisers—you guaranteeing to
deliver a copy free to every man on the electoral
rolls of the province. Then, if you are paid
well enough, as sometimes happens, you shove
100,000 copies into the post-office, and a benevo-
lent State—which says it “cannot afford” to
concede public-school education absolutely
gratis to the masses, as in Victoria (where
newspaper postage is charged, by the way)—
spends perhaps hundreds of pounds without
return in humping great masses of advertise-
ment to the uttermost end of the province.
Papers are not delivered free in Sydney when
posted in Sydney, so the “ business man ”
simply adopts tbe dodge of carting his trade-
circular “ newspaper ” by the ton to some post-
office outside the city radius and calmly dump-
ing it down to be delivered by Government at
the expense of the letter-postage revenue.
Free newspaper postage is and always has been
mere corruption. Trains are laid on every
day, at a cost of <£20,000 or more yearly,
for the sole purpose of carting the daily
papers into the backblocks, and the expense of
coach and pack-horse mail-contracts is enor-
mously added to by the huge masses of free
matter shovelled into the post-offices. A news-
paper is a mere commercial enterprise, and
there is no more reason for free-mailing Smith’s
advertising-sheet than there would be for free-
mailing all the small-goods of the big Sydney
sausage-man. As to the argument advanced by
the newspaper-proprietor or trade-circular-in-
newspaper-guise man (with his tongue in his
cheek) concerning the educational value of
public journals, it suits the free-postage brigade
to overlook the public benefits which would
accrue from the free-postage of pills. See how
much less crime and suicide and how much
more happiness and wholesome energy there
would be in the backblocks and elsewhere if
people only kept their livers active ! It is
clearly the State’s duty to frank Cockle’s pills
through the post; also Beecham’s and Senior’s
and Abrahams’, and all the rest of them.
N.S. Wales, so far as The Bulletin knows, is
the only country which now tolerates the
shameless free-postage swindle.
Tiie Argus lets one of its convenient anonym-
ous correspondents loose in its columns with
the following excruciatingly funny suggestion
for a new clause in the Factories Bill:
TO THE EDITOR OF THE ARGUS.
Sir, —Seeing that that very useful measure, the Fac-
tories Act, has been shelved by the “ sheer obstinacy ” of
the Legislative Council, I trust that the measure will be
insisted upon next session, and would suggest to the
Ministry the insertion of a new clause in the Bill as
follows :
“ Every male or female outdoor worker shall wear a
collar composed of the metal brass, of the width of three
inches, on which shall be engraved in letters one inch
long their full name and address, together with their
registered number; such collar to be fastened behind the
neck by a padlock, the key of which shall be kept by the
Chief Secretary.”
The reference to the brass badge of serfdom is
Fat Man’s playful way of gloating over the
shelving of the registration clauses in the Bill
by the House of Rich Landlords. He, he !
Ha, ha ! Ho, ho ! A brass collar ! He, he !
The sweater doesn’t want his sweat-shop regis-
tered, and grows satirically humorous when he
wins. “ Let the people wear a brass collar,”
“ Let the people eat grass.” Ha, ha !
The unspeakable smash-up of the Italian power
in Abyssinia helps to prove many things. One
is that the world isn’t wholly for the white
Christian, after all. When the European
went out with a long-range rifle and potted
his dark opponent, armed with a spear,
at a half-mile range, or when he turned a
Maxim gun on a tumultuous rush of Kaffirs, or
when he shelled a clumsy, stupid wooden junk,
he was wont to say proudly that no one could
stand against the European, no matter what
the odds. But the brown men and black men
and little smudgy men of many countries are
learning European warfare and acquiring
European arms, and it is suddenly becoming
apparent that the Christian homicide is not so
invincible as was supposed. Another thing
that is becoming painfully evident is that Italy
is about the poorest thing that ever called itself
a Great Power. At all events, since it began
to be a Great Power it hasn’t won a single
battle. It tried to bite Austria in the rear in
’66, when that unlucky State was overwhelmed
by the Prussians in front, but the scrag-end of
the Austrian army—the regiments which had
been left behind because they were hardly good
enough for service against Moltke’s legions—
mashed it up at Custozza. It sent out its new
and gorgeous fleet to sweep the Adriatic, and
the old Austrian, Tegetthof, with an inferior
force, mostly old wooden ships, knocked it into
ignominious rout at Lissa, and but for its
superior velocity in running away would prob-
ably have resolved it into its original iron
plates. And now its attempt to conquer feeble
little Abyssinia has resulted in two great
defeats, 10,000 men lost, about 180 officers
more or less missing, three generals alleged to
be captured, a garrison of 7000 men reported to
be unaccounted for, and the biggest smash that
Europe has heard of since Sedan.
The worst cruelty (though intended to be a rea-
sonable kindness) to which the N.S.W. Public
Service Board subjects its discharged officials is
found in the stereotype: “In the event of
fresh assistance being required in this depart-,
ment, those now dispensed with will have the
first claim for employment.” A few men take
the stereotype as a valedictory, and, valuing it
at that, address themselves with ail then energy
to other avocations ; but the many—the great,
patient, slow-moving many, with Government-
stroke stamped all over them—wait and wait,
expecting every post will bring them an invita-
tion to go back to their stools, till deferred
hope breaks them down, and they discover
some day that they have hardly enough “go ”
in them to keep their eyes open.
The result of the current Queensland elections
is unfortunately in little doubt. The obstinate
refusal of the Labor-party to come to terms
with the Opposition on a reasonable Democratic
platform has practically secured the triumph of
the party of dishonesty. Isolated successes
may be scored against the Govt. ; their general
victory is almost sure. Nevertheless, the pro-
spect does not bv one whit lessen the responsi-
bility now cast upon every honest man in
Queensland of doing his utmost, by voice and
pen and vote, to secure the defeat of the Govt,
candidates. The record of the party in office
is a record of political profligacy and corrup-
tion. Any man who defends Boodlewraith
announces himself as an enemy of Australia
and Democracy. The crankiest advocate of
“ Socialism in our time ” is preferable to
the systematic public robber, wholesale
disfranchiser, bigoted supporter of the
tyranny of privileged classes. Therefore, The
Bulletin exhorts every Q. democrat, in a con-
test between Govt, and Labor, to vote straight
for Labor. The Labor candidates, even if tact-
less or extremist, are likely to be very much
better servants of the people than the candi-
dates of Boodlewraith ; they cannot by any
chance be worse. And the fight involves prin-
ciples much more important than the men. It
is a fight between stagnation and progress —a
fight whether the public interests and the public
exchequer shall be subordinated to the private
interests and the private overdrafts of a poli-
tical clique and their friends—a fight which
will help to decide if Queensland is to be the
prey of a Tory oligarchy of kanaka-sweaters
and grab-all money-lenders, or the home of a
decently-living white community. The Labor
candidate is on the side of public honor and
public honesty ; and whatever personal objec-
tions may be urged against him, he is an angel
from heaven compared with the demons from
the Boodlewraith Pit.
A Bulletin correspondent thus describes re-
cent public events in Westralia :—“ The inner
history of the recent agitation against the
Forrest Govt., as it occurs to me, is very
funny. It originated with the local Morning
Herald, which had only just started and
wanted to achieve fame—or, rather, publicity—
at one bound. But, being owned by very influ-
ential people, and having Alex. Forrest,
brother of the Premier, as chairman of its
proprietary, it did not want to agitate too
much, or to probe certain departments
at all. It was quite safe to ask Premier For-
rest to resign, because he was—well, unlikely
to do that. The elections are two years
off yet. The agitation, anyway, gathered
force. The commercial-sharebroking-miscel-
laneous boom crowd, whose goods were lying
piled up on the shore at Fremantle, and whose
telegrams and letters were either lost or on the
way, took the matter up, and in their wrath
drafted some very severe resolutions for the
public meeting which was to be held in
the town hall. This lot would rather see a
good many things happen than that the
Forrest Ministry should go out of office.
Well, the public—the real public—came to the
town ball and carried all the resolutions, and
gave the Govt, a bad time. Same week a
meeting was to be held at Fremantle, and
before it came off the commercial and boom
people began to think. They had wanted to
scare the Government and hurry it up in the
matter of trucks and telegrams, but the thing
promised to go too far. The organisers of the
Fremantle meeting, therefore, on meeting to
draft resolutions, condemned the Perth meeting
for having gone to extremes, and merely pre-
pared a mild resolution ‘ deploring ’ the state of
the Post and Telegraph and Railway Depart-
ments. This was next evening submitted to
the meeting. But the public were again in
possession. The motion was thrown out,
and a Trades-and-Labor-Council amendment,
affirming the necessity of a reconstruction of
the Ministry, was carried by an overwhelming
majority. As I said, the elections are two years
off, and the Ministry need not take much
notice. But the question lias been raised as to
who is to blame for cutting down last year’s
railway estimates and causing, in some degree,
the present shortage of rolling-stock. At time
of writing the Premier and the Commissioner of
Railways had fallen out over this, and were so
far gone as to be corresponding in public on the
matter. The boom crowd and ‘ commercial
interests ’ are now in sore trouble, and are
wondering whether they have not lighted a
bigger fire than they can put out. They have
shaken the Ministry badly, and—worst of all
—they have brought the Trades and Labor
Council on the scene. No more agitation for
them. The next newspaper which tries to raise
any will receive scant courtesy, so far as they
are concerned.”
Ed. Bulletin, —Side by side with the evil-
smelling system of honorary magistracy may be
placed the system of leaving police-constables
for a number of years in small country towns.
A man in such a position, unless he be strictly
honest and impartial, cannot help forming ties
and friendships which, hampering him in his
duty, more than counterbalance the value of
his knowledge of the district. The powers of
a bad man to do harm are unlimited. He is
boss bobby, and runs the smalbdebts and police
courts. In addition to these offices, and gene-
rally those of coroner, truant-inspector, &e.,
&c., he nearly always is a man of money, and,
having lent considerably, has some of the popu-
lation under his thumb. The local J’sP. are
either in his power or afraid to oppose him,
and, unless there is a P.M. present, police
court proceedings are a farce. Oneof the in-
stances I have in my Blind is that of a most
aggressive and brutal, person —the scene at a
recent sitting of his police court beggared de-
scription. There was simply “no one in it”
but the trap. —•Rustiuus.
The Federal Feeling.
Observant persons cannot fail to recognise and welcome
the steady growth of a strong federal feeling throughout
the world. —Daily Paper.
Niggers are squealing, Britons are stealing,
Russia is restless and Germany growls ;
Cleveland is crowing, bitterness sowing,
Frenchmen are fuming, while Hungary howls.
A world of woe and political spieling,
Shouting a song about federal feeling.
Clearly the Christ-Man’s creed it shows —
How the federal feeling grows !
The Sultan is softly his mind relieving,
Sinking the sinners where silence dwells,
Shifting the skulls from the unbelieving—
Harksome deeds by the Dardanelles.
Devilish doubts and double dealing,
Fanning the flame of federal feeling ;
Brotherhood booms to the sound of blows —
Ho.w the federal feeling grows !
Transvaal is troubled, navies are doubled,
Cubans are cursing Castilians, too ;
Japs are jumping, and joyfully thumping
Brotherly love into China’s crew.
Buddhist and Brahmin their love revealing,
Furiously fighting the federal feeling,
Mutter, while murderous Maxims mow—
“ Doesn't the federal feeling grow ! ”
Tas.
JOHN DRAYMAN.


HOSIERY
QELLULAR
CASHMERE, MERINO, or SILK.
VENTILATED FEET and LEGS.
New Shipment Just Opened—ls. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
These are the only practical ventilators for the feet.
People who have suffered all their lives from the incon-
venience and discomfort of perspiration readily testify to
the success of this specialty. There is a delightful free-
dom in the sensation experienced in the use of these
socks, quite foreign to other makes.
CELLULAR PYJAMAS,
DRESS SHIRTS, TENNIS SHIRTS,
AND ALL UNDERWEAR.
Pamphlets, Price Lists, and all particulars,
CELLULAR CLOTHING DEPOT,
(New Premises) 334 George-st., SYDNEY.
D. Braham & Co., Sole Agents for N.S.W.
Awarded
Gold Medal,
f
Chicago,
1893.
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
WORLD-FAMED
Euoalypte Extract
OI T 1"? R/S Coti'lis, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
V"/ Consumption, Influenza, &c., &e.
ASK FOB
Colemane <£• Sons’ Euoalypte,
And SEE that you GET IT.
SOLD EVERYWHERE-l-s. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
BUAVVLIN, near COOTAMUNDRA, N.S.W.
JH E MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
Established 1843.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
STATEMENT FOR 1895.
(Just received by Special Cable.)
Income ...
Surplus ...
Assets
Insurance in Force
New Business actually Paid (discard-
ing incomplete)
Net Gain in Insurance in Force
£9,975,000
5,500,000
45,400,000
184,000,<j00
30,000,000
12, jOO,OOO
INCREASE OF ASSETS OVER PREVIOUS YEAR,
£3,400,000.
AUSTRALASIAN HEAD OFFICE:
COMPANY’S BUILDING,
MARTIN PLACE and PITT STREET
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH AVALES.
Confound all pipes
ID
Give me
Cigarettes
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ In Town.”
Her Majesty’s “ A Transvaal Heroine.”
Royal “ The Enemy’s Camp.”
Tivoli. Rickards’ Variety Co.
Opera House Cogill Bros.’SpecialtyCo
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Fedora.”
Boyal “Silence of Dean Mait-
land.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “Work Girl of Mel-
bourne.”
That rare novelty, the grand old Ber-ritish
flag, is having a day out at Her Majesty’s. The
“ Transvaal Heroine ” is the old military drama
“Jess’’with some variations, increased scenery,
less conversation, more blood and crash and pro-
miscuous shooting, and a few other enlargements.
It is a fine, patriotic drama ; the hair and ear of
the wicked Dutchman are scattered all over the
premises, and after each round the noble Britisher
goes out and casually throws the scalp of the de-
feated Boer into the back-yard as one having
authority, and not as the Scribes. The Boer is
Vaguely understood to have been winning some
considerable battles in the background, but they
don’t appear, and every time a solitary Briton
shows himself with a gun 11 huge Boers get
beneath the table and call in an agonised voice for
schnapps, or mercy, or pig’s-feet, or other refresh-
ments, Altogether they have a bad time, except
on one occasion when 16 of them succeed in tying
up two Britishers after a fearful conflict in which
the 16 Boers are knocked down eight times,
and then the smallest Boer solemnly wipes
his boots on the British ensign and leaves
thereon a piece of mud the size of a
vulture. The smallest Boer, represented by
“Bobby” Watson, is an offensive person of the
crushed-Guppy description, and his treatment of
the flag is understood to make the British army
very cross indeed. Miss Lily Dampier plays Jess,
the best of Rider Haggard’s heroines, with much
success, and Mrs. Harry Marshall makes sister
Bess sufficiently attractive. Leston’s comic,
hungry Boer, however, stands out conspicuously
as the great character of the drama ; this Boer
runs away in ten different styles, and his utter
collapse every time a Briton is heard in the dis-
tance is very gratifying. Alfred Rolfe and Dam-
pier do good work as the principal manly English-
men, and Robert Inman makes the wicked Boer a
vigorous person of much promise. The small,
mean Boer, and the smallest Boer (as already
mentioned), and the coarse Boer, and the different
Boers who run away, and the semi-idiotic Boer,
and the Boer who isn’t so clean as he might be,
are all reasonably satisfactory. The ugliness of
all these Boers is something phenomenal, and
when one of them gets in front of the scenery he
suggests a hog blocking the view of Paradise and
scraping himself against the Ivory Gate.
* * * *
When the “Transvaal Heroine ” comes to
an end the firm at Her Majesty’s proposes to stage
a perfectly new drama, “Called to Arms.” By
way of complete novelty, the scene is laid in South
Africa during the Boer war. It is to contain a
fox hunt, the biggest tank yet seen, the Unnatural
Anthem, innumerable guns, a whole drum and
fife band, a British regiment charging in a hollow
square with the women and children and the
wounded and the regimental plate in the centre,
reinforcements arriving at the last moment, white-
haired British general waving his troops round
his head and cheering vociferously, general
delirium, whoop and bang-crash, and the baffled foe
seen trying to swim away in the distance carrying
his entrenchments between his teeth. If it doesn’t
prove the biggest military event of the year the
management intends to throw up the business in
disgust and go gum-digging.
** * *
“Miss Decinia ” is brightened up im-
mensely this week by the addition of the “ Living
Pictures,” which are beautiful enough to brighten
up anything and make it a financial success. This
paper’s opinion about Decima hasn’t improved at
all since last week, and it still regards her as a
hazy female pursuing a rather tiresome individual,
from a motive that is neither adequate nor in-
teresting. Decima has been bowdlerised into
respectability and made very dreary thereby; in
her original form she was not at all dreary, but so
Wholly shocking that she couldn’t be staged in the
moral city of Sydney; so between the two diffi-
culties it would have been much better to leave
her alone. Meanwhile, as already mentioned, the
Pictures are supplying all deficiencies. Friday
and Saturday will be devoted to “Ma Mie
Rosette ” and more Living Pictures, and three
nights of “In Town” will follow. The stupendous
“ Djin-Djin ” begins on the 28th.
** * *
The Westmacott co. leaves Sydney Royal
for Melbourne this week, and will be remembered
as a hard-working combination of much talent,
which never let the drop-scene come down side-
ways or the explosion miss fire. A couple of
nights are being filled in with a revival of the
“ Workgirl,” a piece which has got a powerful
hold on the Sydney public, mainly, The Bulletin
believes, because the fatted Hebrew is undressed
in a public place and the illegitimate infant is not
left to the imagination, but is mentioned as much
as possible at every opportunity. Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday are devoted to a revival of
“ The Enemy’s Camp,” which deserves better luck
than it has yet received. It is a brilliant military
outbreak; there is no lost female in it, and no
incensed father ejecting his daughter and an
unauthorised infant; and as a gorgeous epitome of
battle, murder, sudden death and desperate free-
fights in a mountainous country there are few
dramas to equal it.
*# * *
Sydney Music Hall was announced to open
last Tuesday (too late for notice in this issue) as a
dramatic show, with a production entitled “ Syd-
ney Under the Limelight.” D’Orsay Ogden
manages, and how Sydney looks under the lime-
light will be duly set forth next week.
«* * *
The Sydney variety houses have done no-
thing special during the last few days. The
Crossley Sisters have returned to the Tivoli, and
John Coleman and La Belle Maie and the Ivanoff
Brothers who sing ill nine languages, are all as well
as could be expected.
*• * # *
The report that Wallace Brownlow intends
leaving the operatic stage - for a time, at all
events—to go prospecting in Gippsland, seems so
well-authenticated that The Bulletin feels moved
to say a few words to that beautiful but misguided
young man, and ask him seriously to think better of
it. Prospecting in Gippsland in the winter, or any
other.time, is solemn work. There is much moisture
in it, and much shinning up great damp crags in
search of “ indications ” ; and sleeping out in ex-
posed situations will shortly ruin the tuneful bari-
tone voice in which Henry IV. tries to lead May
Pollard astray from the paths of virtue. Brownlow
will, probably, get into places where horse-exercise
is impossible, and then he may have to walk 30
miles on a Saturday for the meat, and, as likely
as not, the creek will be “up” when he comes
back, and he will have to camp on the lee-side
of an herb. Also, when he gets to the but-
chery, he will, most likely, have to assist
at running after the sheep before he gets
the meat at all. He will, probably, dig damp,
aimless holes for weeks and months and never find
anything, and the ’possums will insist on scuttering
over his tent at night and keeping him awake, ana
unless he is very careful where he pitches his tent,
he will have to get up early in the morning and
dig trenches to carry the water off before he goes
searching for the sodden twig to light the fire
with. The present writer prospected in Gippsland
for nearly six months, and he can take his Bible
oath that his feet were wet for three months of
that time. Almost the only time that his feet
were really dry he fell down a hole that some
other prospector had left, and found 2ft. of slush
and a dead sheep at the bottom of it. The sheep
was inflated with gas and burst when he fell on
it. The creek was almost always “ up,” and on
one occasion when the flour had given out, and
his mate couldn’t get across with the supplies
from the township, his life was only saved by that
kindly individual heaving mutton to him over
the raging flood. The mate himself didn’t get
across for two days, and then he had rheuma-
tism “something dreadful.” It cleared up after
that and the rheumatic patient got sunstroke
while trying to dry himself. If Brownlow goes
prospecting for any length of time he wall not
only ruin his baritone through exposure and sleep-
ing in damp tents, but he will also get into the
habit of walking heavily through going up moun-
tains with a ponderous swag, and his literary
instincts will be ruined through reading last
week’s paper while weatherbound in bush pubs,
and perusing the same pill advt. 40 times to kill
the weary hours, and he will degenerate in various
ways. And, in any case, he can get all the joys
of prospecting by sleeping out in Moore Park on a
windy night, or walking a hundred times round
the Domain on a hot day carrying 401 b. of bricks
or other dead weight.
#* * *
Mrs. Brough’s first attempt to follow Sarah
Bernhardt in Melbourne must have satisfied all
who didn’t expect impossible things of that adapt-
able actress. Mrs. Brough doesn’t merge herself
into the character of Fedora for a moment, but
she acts it cleverly all the time, and puts forth her
best efforts in the places where they are most re-
quired. Her death-scene impresses the audience,
although it fails to thrill. She gives a vigorous
display of terror and love for Loris Ipanoff when
that ill-used person is about to walk into the trap
prepared for him. She shrieks and sobs over the
corpse (by the way, who impersonates the “ re-
mains ”?) of her false lover in the first act, just as
women do sob and shriek under—different circum-
stances. Mrs. Brough may not strike the right
note of passion, but she certainly strikes a note,
and hits it hard. Too hard, as a rule. The per-
formance is noisy, yet not inharmonious. Friends
may fairly say of the lady’s Fedora, with even
more confidence than they said it of her Mrs. Ebb-
smith, that the country doesn’t now hold another
actress who could come as near to realising the
character.
* * * *
Nevertheless, the doubt as to whether
Mrs. Brough is qualified to play Fedora stands
where it stood before. To be convincing in tragedy
an actress must possess magnetism. Mrs. Brough
has not a magnetic personality. She can’t give
one a cold, creepy sensation. Again, her elocu-
tion is unequal to the quiet expression of deepest
feeling. In her calmer moods she sticks to a
chapel tea-meeting method of talking, a common
fault with the B. and B. co. When excited she
is apt to rant. Honest ranting is far preferable
to the spurious “reserved force ” of, say, Arthur
El wood, who was so monotonously feeble in “The
Masqueraders,” but it is at best a poor substitute
for'the vehement intensity of a Divine Sarah, or
even a Mrs. Bernard Beere. This Fedora scarcely
conies up to the popular notion of a Russian
princess.
* * * *
Titheradge, as Count Loris Ipanoff, sur-
passes the leading lady in artistic skill, but is
equally lacking in power and distinction of
manner. One feels more regret for Ipatieffs bad
luck than regard for the gentleman himself.
Instead of being pathetic in his grief and awful in
his fury, Titheradge seems a rather uninteresting
victim of extraordinary circumstances. Surely
the Majeronis gave a more picturesque perform-
ance. Boucicault, as the police-agent, is a trifle
short of weight; ditto Cecil Ward and Miss
Faber in the light comedy parts. The latter, no
doubt, will get much praise for her Countess
Olga ; but then the butterfly widow is such a
charming creation that no actress of Miss Faber’s
class could treat it badly. Several little six-line
characters are carefully filled in, the mounting of
“Fedora” is excellent, and the story retains its
attractiveness. Its mechanism is perfect. Every
incident works towards a natural conclusion. The
cleverest of modern English plays appear clumsy
in comparison with Sardou’s masterpiece.
* * * •
After “Fedora” a comedy revival, on
Saturday or early next week.
** * *
The Land of the Moa ” held forth at Mel-
bourne Royal until Monday night, when Black
Angel was prodded down a sulphur-hole by Polly
Emery for the last time. “The Silence of Dean
Maitland ” broke out on St. Patrick’s night, too
late for a notice in this week’s Bulletin. A
feature of the “ Dean Maitland ” advt. is a copy
of Alma’s letter to her Betrayer, which ought to
capture the sympathetic female Vote, anyway.
* * *
At the Alexandra they are still working
“ The Factory Girl of Melbourne ” for as much as
that artful title is worth. Every night a confiding
damsel goes to learn her father’s name from
Augustus Glover, at St. Kilda sewerage works,
and six times a week the stalwart monster in
question lets a stone fall with a sickening thud
upon the place where his young friend would have
been if her aunt hadn’t dragged her away
by the heels. Also, the hero with the hard,
unyielding voice continues to obtrude him-
self into fashionable society attended by three
grimy disciples who appear to be on nodding terms
with the gallery, and the yarn which the hero
pitches to Smellbourne’s leading families, whilst
they gather round him in a ring, is almost as long
and dreary as at first. “The Factory Girl of
Melbourne” has, however, been judiciously
sweated of some dialogue, whereby the long-suf-
fering wife is enabled to rejoin her husband at
Pentridge Gaol in time to catch the last tram for
home.
** * *
Saturday matinees have been revived at
the Opera House, chiefly on account of Charles
Godfrey. The glory of Godfrey doesn’t wane.
Just now, he is warbling, with his foot in a sling,
a change of songs, but two of his first songs are so
affectionately remembered that they may be ex-
pected to appear again when he gets back into
form. The level-headed Lenton Bros, maintain
their perpendiculars with much success : likewise,
little Ivy Scott and Miss Ada Colley are popular
with the madding crowd. Otherwise, the show
is rather weak in the female element, and a new
woman or two would supply a want.
** * #
The Melbourne Amateur Orchestral
Society—one time amalgamated with the Uni-
versity O.S. under Marshall Hall, but now work-
ing quietly on its own—intends to break out into
a grand concert next month, for the benefit of the
honorary conductor, Geo. Howard. TheM.A.O.S.,
which has an energetic secretary in A. C. Destree,
is composed of bona-fide amateurs who stick to
the works of the best masters, old and new, and
practice religiously once a week. Several ladies
are included among the performers, a circumstance
that ought to prove an attraction to the trial con-
cert. Should this be the success hoped for the
Society will go on its way rejoicing, and submit
two programmes per annum to public notice.
There is room in Melbourne for a painstaking
amateur orchestra of such an unassertive character,
therefore this journal feels no compunction in
bestowing a provisional blessing on its first
attempt at soothing the savage breast.
*# * *
Olliffe—her final performance of
Paula Tanqueray, in Melbourne, was a work of
genius—seems to be impressing the London critics.
Given a fair chance, this handsome, magnetic
actress must fetch the public. Miss Olliffe was
merely a provincial favorite, and not a celebrity at
that, previous to being engaged by Boucicault as
Mrs. Brough’s locum tcncns, and when she got to
Australia her talent had to assert itself without
the aid of managerial puffing. Moreover, towards
the finish of her short season, she was treated as a
second fiddle to Miss Faber, for the reason, appa-
rently, that Miss F. is a reminder of Mrs. Brough,
who was then about to return to her old friends!
The Bulletin formed a very high opinion, which
was freely expressed, of Miss Olliffe’s acting in at
least three characters, and will, therefore, hail the
news of her first real triumph with a self-satisfied
chuckle.
** * *
Charles Godfrey is, without doubt, the
best all-round interpreter of music-hall songs that
Australia has heard thus far. He has a tuneful
voice to start with, and plenty of magnetism and
acting ability to carry him along. Godfrey’s im-
personation of a white-haired old boy revelling in
recollections of his giddy youth is rather too good
for the upstairs patron of Melb. Opera House,
although it delights the more intelligent section of
the audience. The new man’s work is scrupulously
clean and decent.
** * *
Dear Bulletin, Strange, how different
the same play can become, acted by different
people ! “ Agnes ” Brough and “ Agnes ” Camp-
bell are two totally-distinct women. Mrs. Pat
showed all through that the heroine’s actions
could reasonably justify the epithet “ mad.” She
was thoroughly eccentric, out of the ordinary run
in fact, “a demnition product.” With her in-
tellect was the prominent note of the character,’not
temperament at all. A cold, unassailable cocksure-
ness of superiority made her (to me, at least) quite
antipathic. There was no question with the
original Agnes of falling in love, in the usual
Edwin and Angelina style. All that was beneath
her. A widow of 33 who was an intellectual—
and not merely a clever—woman wouldn’t go
spooning about the place like a sentimental house-
maid. When Mrs. Pat Campbell declared that
her sex had found her out,” one felt that she
regarded it as a veritable come-down.
Again, there was nothing robustious about
her ; her voice was tired and worn, her moods of
wrath and scorn were restrained. Remember, she
was one who could go through life “with com-
pressed lips.” “ Agnes ” Brough could not. She
shows herself a warm-hearted, frank, impulsive
creature ; she is more loveable than the original,
but not so subtle. “ Agnes ” Campbell runs her
head against the stone wall of conventionality, but
“ Agnes ” Brough beats her heart out against it.
In appearance, too, Mrs. Brough is too attractive;
the other Mrs. Ebbsmith was shockingly untidy
and as thin as the lady at the top of “ Sappho’s ”
column. But her expression helps her much. She
presses the button and her eyes do the rest. They
show fathomless deeps, which Bernard Shaw, you
recollect, says don’t exist except in the male
imagination.
* * * *
Boucicault played the duke as lie would
the Marquis of Steyne in a burlesque. Perhaps
he broadened the effects in order to catch the
audience, who unanimously regarded the aged peer
as the villain of the piece. On his native heath,
St. Olpherts was a cold, polished cynic whose im-
perturbable calm masked utter heartlessness. His
gout wasn't really as bad as all that either. A
senile old satyr—as “Dot” makes him—wouldn’t
be cajiable of saying all those clever things.
The whole play is an example, above all,
of intellect-worship. We haven’t got that par-
ticular form of idolatry in Australia yet, and so
to us the motif is perhaps rather unintelligible.
On the whole, a depressing drama. The character
I most admired in the whole cast was Mr. Ebb-
smith, “ husband of the above,” to quote his
tombstone. — Yours, Returned Australian.
At Poverty Point.
Lonnen has been gaoled, at Johannesburg, as a Rebel.
Queer. Lonnen always struck The Bulletin as an awful
Boer.
Friend : “ The Bulletin writer on Mrs. L. L. Lewis,
whilom Rosa Dunn, does not exactly give a right impres-
sion. She was only 13 years old when her talents enabled
her father to push her into a leading position. Always
the extreme of modesty, she loathed the stage, and left it
as soon as she could.”
Poor “ Mons ” Marius, who was here with Bernhardt, is
dead. He left his bones in South Africa. He was a clever
comedian, his best part being probably Favart, in
“ Madame Favart,” which caused no end of'ruetions mat-
rimonial and otherwise. Florence St. John is now free to
marry Arthur Cohen—that is to say, if they are both
agreeable.
When Mrs. Potter makes her reappearance in Melb.
with the faithful Curly Blew, the Firm will not drag
“ Worth, of Paris,” into the advt. It was Arthur Garner
who gave the lady away last time, by starring her in con-
junction with the man who built her costumes.
Miss Bertha Rossow’s farewell concert at Melb. Town
Hall panned out satisfactorily; £l5O in the house, and a
little more to come from outside.
Said that Arthur Deane is making rapid progress under
Santley s tuition. Santley thinks he should make his
mark on the lyric stage.
Melba has been “ putting her back up ” because Maurice
Grau, the American entrepreneur, wanted her to sing at a
concert with Yvette Guilbert. The prima-donna thought
such a proposal an absolute insult.
Irving is said to have gone to pieces, physically, in
America.
Dan. Barry contrives to do a payable business at Melb.
Alexandra, where so many little ventures have failed.
His policy of setting up catchpenny dramas lira respect-
able st t \ le is the one. There are some capable per-
formers in the company, and decent bits of scenery to*
support them. Also a hard-working little orchestra plays-
and m tune, during the waits, which, considering that
Dan. s dramas run into five aets as a rule, is a valuable
arrangement.
Miss Forteseue put on considerable frill during her re-
cent South African tour. The story goes that she accepted
an invitation to dine where there was no game or poultry
on the menu, and refused the meats with a scornful re-
mark that they hadn't any poetry in their composition.
Greenaway was playing at the Standard Theatre, Jo-
hannesburg, at the time of Jameson’s raid. He writes of
himself as having been pretty nearly slaughtered by the
Boers in cold berlud.
Minnie Palmer seems to carry on the old puff-paragraph
game successfully without the assistance of her divorced
J. R. Rogers. The latest lie concerning fluffy Min. is that
a foreign auke seeks her hand in marriage. “ Foreign ”is
a vague term, anyhow.
Sad news of Professor Kennedy comes from Maoriland.
He still flourishes. The awful showman drew vast audi-
ences at Wellington and Auckland, and the old, old
mixture of hypnotism and humbug was accepted by them
as readily as the paralytic subjects swallow Kennedy's
abominable doses. How much longer will the Lord permit
these horrors to continue?
Tenor Tapley just departed for England, has an offer
to join George Edwardes’s co. in New York.
Boucicault’s St. Olpherts, remarks a Bulletin corres-
pondent, is a cross between Ca.vley Brummie and Dr.
JNeilcl. B. never can help being Neild in such studies.
a be expected, a lurid legal scrimmage regardin''' the
Australian rights of “ Cheer, Boys, Cheer ” and “ Tommy
a/'ent? S ' P olnt at issue—May an author oversell his
Horace Stevens, of whom The Bulletin told a little
yarn the other week, has won the first “exhibition” for
singing at Melbourne Conservatorium of Music. Pretty
: M w- IVe o de Fugard obtained the award for pianoforte-
pia> iny. successful candidates are required to enter upon
the year s course at the Conservatorium.
Me°b sidmrban Jo"” * nOW biUed aS mana S er - with a
The ever-ingenious Dan Barry announced that inasmuch
m-pt inn c i tlons f ° r drunkenness .and crimes arising from
er-indulgence in the curse had fallen off materially in
Melbourne during the progress of that highly moral, etc.,
w«;,’lH e K lP L ra ? Ce d s ama ’ “Ten Nights in a Bar-room,” it
Woitcf kei ?V on the ,. hoards for another week in the in-
terests of public morality.
nm lr Bassett, the: young Co-nish gentleman with
£40,000 a year which he is said t> be desirous of sharing


An Important Change
Is pending in the well-known Drapery and Ladies’
Outfitting Business of Messrs. Manning and
Company, on the Block, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Tempting partnership proposals from a friend in
Scotland have induced Mr. R. Manning to employ
other brains and capital in his rapidly-expanding
business; and in view of the new regime, a large sale>
for the purpose of reducing stock, has been entered
upon. Each department is expected to effect a
certain reduction in stock, and to render this easy
of accomplishment, every article in the establish-
ment has been re-marked and its value consider-
ably discounted. Now, obviously, is the time to
purchase. Quite a clearing-out is being aimed at,
with a view to immediate re-stocking on a larger
and more elaborate scale. This, ladies, is your
opportunity. The address : MANNING & CO.,
on the Block, Oollins-street, Melbourne.*
d
GENUINE
CAWNPORE KHAKI
RIDING TROUSERS.
fg
Post free to any Parcel Post Office in Queensland or New
Sonili Wales on receipt of P. 0.0, or Stumps value 9/6.
This is a perfect materi 1 for Station .ml Bosh Wear,
and is absolutely unshrinkable. JUMPERS of same
material, post free, XI 6. State height, chest, waist, seat,
and inside leg measures. PIKE BltOS., Brlsbuue.
THE DANGERS OF PHOSPHORUS.
A painful accident occurred to a man named
Ryan employed at Belubla Station, in Tocumwal
district. Some tins of phosphorus, used for rabbit
poisoning, ignited by the heat of the atmosphere
of the storeroom. Ryan volunteered to go into
the building and throw the tins out. Having tied
a rope round his waist, he entered and succeeded
in throwing one out. The second tin was leaking,
and, in his endeavor to throw it out, the substance
was spilt over his arm. He was immediately
rescued with his arm burning from the fingers to
the shoulder. The phosphorus burned itself out.
Ryan, in the meantime, suffering frightful agony.
“ TOXA ” is already prepared and ready for use,
and is safe amongst stock ; non-combustible, also
perfectly harmless to handle.*
AN APOLOGY BY MESSRS. J. FROSSARD
AND CO.
We have recently made a certain statement re-
garding our Cavour Cigars (which are now sold
everywhere at eight for Is.), to which objection
has been taken in certain quarters. We said that,
by buying the Cavour at 1-id. each, the smoker re-
ceived a cigar equal in quality to the usual 3d.
cigars, which statement we now retract, as since
then the opinion of good judges has led us to the
conclusion that our flavours are infinitely superior
in quality to any 3d. cigar—in fact, they compare
favorably with many 6d. ones. For mildness,
aroma, and good manufacture they have never
been approached at their price, and the sudden
and general demand for them is the best proof of
this. We beg, in conclusion, to thank the intelli-
gent general public, who, by patronising our
Cavours, have done justice to us and to their
own judgment.—J. Frossakd & Co., Payerne,
Switzerland. px201:193.*
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING.
*•! r
BALATA
DICKS
J*ELTINf
Is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SEND FOK CATALOGUE to
Wm. Aclanas & Compy.,
Oil Merchants A Engineers’ Furnishers,
71 GlBjr6iiC6~&&i» Sydney i 621*623 Collins-Bt., M
with Miss Ethel Haydon, late of Melbourne, claims to be a
dlrei j t uescen lant of that Royal Henry so clear to Rig-
nola s fancy. *'r. Bass 'tt is only 23 years of age, and but
for the intervention of his family would already have
made Ethel one of that distinguished coterie. Tie mar-
riage may yet come off, however, as young Bassett is most
devoted and has deluged his goddess with diamonds.
Ethel grows prettier every day, and at latest was re-
hearsing new business for the “Shop Girl,” in which she
was to presently resume the name-part.
Henry Stockwell has found times hard in London, and
the Australians were discussing a complimentary concert
to him. He has a fine voice, and should succeed eventu-
ally.
Lilian Tree has just signed for three years with Aug.
Harris, and, in the interval before the opera opens, has
some good concert engagements in the provinces.
Ada Crossley was recently described at Birmingham as
a “ bonnie English girl,” and this though she still has her
visiting cards inscribed, “ Miss Ada Crossley, Melbourne,
Australia. Her cDbut at St. James’s Hall concerts was a
great success, and the haughty Standard of next day
complimented her warmly on her French pronunciation.
Her success has brought round the usual batch of begging
letters, and among the applicants are many singers who
put in a season in “the colonies” and hence assume a
right to share the Australian’s earnings.
Lady May Yche’s bankrupt husband, Lord Francis
Hope, between 1887 and 18D3, got through £273,003. Of
this, 152,700 went in living and personal expenditure,
£70,000 in gambling, about £50,000 was lost on endorsed
bills, and London Lyric Theatre cost him £21,610.
Florence St. John’s voice seems to hold out wonderfully
considering that she has been at the top of the comic-
opera tree for the last 20 years. She appears as a vocalist
pure and simple in afternoon ballad concerts at St. James’s
Hall, along with Alice Gomez, Ben. Davies, Foli, and
other high-priced singers.
Eusapia Palladino, the notorious alleged s'V’-U.'nUst
who was certified genuine by Professors Lombroso, in
Italy, Ricket and Ochorowicz in Fr.mee, and aiyers and
Lodge in England, has just been shown up in America by
Dr. Richard Hodgson, a Melb. University man. Her
method of deception was the old, old trick of making her
visitors believe she was touching their hands with both of
hers, when in reality they were only touching one of hers,
or only touching each other's, leaving her free to use both
or one of hers, or, in the second case, to walk about the
room. It is not scientists who should give opinions on
these performances, but experts in legerdemain.
At a concert: “ Why is that singer applauded so much ?
I don’t see anything wonderful in either her singing or
appearance.” “ Sh-sh, that’s the only girl with any voice
at all in Australia who doesn’t intend to go ’Onu and try
the wider field of London.”
An “ early ” door trick. You arrive at Melb. Princess’s
and find a crowd on the footpath outside the stalls door.
You go into the Cafe and have a drink ; then, when you
hear the front door being opened, you pop into the cor-
ridor through the door leading from the CaftL Of course
you beat “ the crowd,” and are first at the barrier. The
crowd doesn’t like it, but that’s nothing.
“ Mr. —, since his engagement with (So-and-so) has
been resting ” :
The actor’s labors double
When “ restingbut it’s best.
For old Buckskin gets the trouble,
Arid the public gets the rest.
Americano : “ Yes, the amateur circus ought to catch
an in Australia. In the latest American one I read of, 34
ladies and gentlemen entered the hippodrome on horse-
back, for what professional Fitzgeralds would term a Star
and Waltz Entree.
Before coming to Australia, G. V. Brooke went one Satur-
day night to Wigan, but gave no show because the people
were so few. He issued handbills stating that “Mr.
Brooke, the actor, will preach the Gospel of Christ, in the
Primitive Methodist Chapel, to-morrow evening, Sunday,”
and old residents were positive he did preach, accord-
ingly.
At a music-hall : “ Monotony, thy name is Variety.”
Minstrel Irving Sayles, of the mighty mouth, inquired
of its owner the other day why a certain horse was named
“Sayles.” After getting the explanation, “He’s so very
black, you know,” Irving lost himself in the crowd for
three minutes, but suddenly returned with a smile that
was positively a menace to the neighborhood, “ I say,
Mister, why don’t you call that horse Pope? Charlie's a
whole jugful bracker’n me.”
Reported that Squatter Staughton contemplates turn-
ing part of the Melb. Eastern Arcade into a theatre.
There is plenty of room for a new theatre in Melb.—
plenty of building room.
Letter at Bulletin office for Emile Girard.
A good substitute for yeast for bread-
raising purposes is water in which ordinary wild
sarsaparilla roots have been stewed.
At Hillgrove, the other day, Premier Reid
called for three cheers for ex-Premier Parkes, as
the main author (Reid knows he wasn’t) of the
N.S.W. system of public instruction. Which
sounds very much like three cheers as a funeral.
Q Attorney - General Thomas Joseph
Byrnes is working his nativity for all the votes it
is worth. The Bulletin desires other Australians
to remember that any decent alien is preferable to
the native who becomes member of a Government
of coolie labor, unclean finance, and Tory tyranny.
Every allusion which Byrnes makes to his birth-
place should tell heavily against him, for demo-
cratically he is a disgrace to his country.
Ed. Bulletin, —Last May, at Wetlands,
150 miles S.W. of Longreach, two snakes were
killed measuring respectively 7ft. 7in. and Bft. 3in.
long, and each in girth Sin. They were marked
across the back with brown bars about ljin. wide
and l£in. apart. The heads and 4 or sin. of the
necks were black. The remainder of the reptiles
was, of a yellowish grey color, somewhat lighter
on the belly than on the back and sides. If these
were tiger-snakes your doubts about six-footers of
that species (Jan. 12) are unfounded ; and if they
were not tiger-snakes what were they?—P.H.,
Longreach, Q., 28th January, ’96
The pictures of Mount Kosciusko, which
appeared in last week’s Bulletin, were reproduc-
tions from high-class photographs taken by Mr. 0.
Kerry, the principal of Kerry and Co. The name
of Kerry and Co. very often appears under photos,
in The" Bulletin, which is evidence of the high
opinion which this paper has of the said firm’s
photography. Kerry and Co. have a fine collec-
tion of different Kosciusko photographs for sale, as
well as many photos, of Sydney Art Gallery
subjects. The firm is expert in photographing
station scenes, horses, cattle, interiors and ex-
teriors of buildings—in short, it can photo, any-
thing that will stand a lens, and with artistic
success.
Not yet having seen the depositions (the
evidence was not published in any paper), The
Bulletin is unable to express any opinion con-
cerning the merits of the Daily Rost cases, which
ended in the conviction of three of the directors
and the editor on a charge of conspiracy to de-
fraud. It is thought by some expert lawyers that
the conviction will be quashed on the point taken
by Mr. Conroy—that Judge Rogers was wrong in
deciding that accused had not the right of giving
sworn evidence and making a statement. _ Also
it is pretty certain that the conviction is bad
anyhow, as an alien was on the jury. Much sur-
prise and regret is felt in a wide circle at the con-
viction of Edward Ellis, a journalist steadily
pursued by ill-fortune, whose honesty had never
before been impugned during his long Australian
career, in which he worked with incredible energy
and great courage and headed many forlorn hopes.
And many people will be sorry that the law has
found it necessary to send to gaol the defendant
Holman, a brainy, well-informed, and hitherto
most reputable young fellow who, as a speaker,
had no Australian rival of his own years.
[?]
Sydney, March 17, 1896.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The only other Queensland Governor, before
Gov. Lamington, to come out to his post by a Q.
line of steamers was Gov. Kennedy—who came
via Hongkong, and made a virtue of a convenience.
I haven’t heard how far Gov. Lamington is carry-
ing his prepaid Bananaland sympathies on the
voyage, but Gov. Kennedy would drink nothing
but Q. wine all the way across, and made stomach-
ache quite the correct thing to suffer from on
board by breaking in his suite to drink it also.
People say that the worst feature of travelling per
Q. line is the crowd of Chinamen,.who are mainly
responsible for the strict way in which the health-
officer inspects the ship on getting to port.
On Gov. Kennedy’s voyage out the health-officer
examined the sacred breast of vice-royalty, be-
ginning with the Gov. and ending with Miss K.—
to whom (so goes the story) the medico, wishing to
be extra polite, altered the usual formula, “ Let
me see your chest,” to “Permit me, madam, to
examine your sternum.” But this frightened the
lady (women weren’t so learned in ’77), who rushed
below, and refused to be passed by the odious
man, and the whole crowd of passengers had to
wait a day on board until another doctor was
hunted up. If Gov. Lamington’s feminine belong-
ings don’t know any more Latin than did their
official ancestress, the Brisbane health authorities
had better take their chance in plain English.
Sydney Government House breaks out into two
balls during Easter, on 9th and 14th April. St.
Vincent’s Hospital annual ball is billed for Bth
prox., and the committee reports a great sale of
tickets in aid of this most deserving charity. The
Agricultural Society ball on the 7th is being
looked forward to as a new festivity, and will
make a lively finish to the interesting show-week,
and, what with the A.J.C. autumn meeting on
the 4th prox. and running four days, with its dis-
play of new frocks if the weather permits, Sydney
society will have to put its bonnet on with a shoe-
horn towards the finish.
The Society of Artists revelled in an autumn
exhibition the other day in a hired apartment in
Wynyard Square, which was an excellent apart-
ment to develope negatives in but too gloomy for
picture-gazing. As it happened, visitors’ day was
rather short in the matter of sun, but, in any case,
I don’t think the light would ever do in a base-
ment-room with storeys piled on top of it. To
lighten the effect the artists had the walls dia-
phonously draped in pale m islin caught up with
corn-cobs, making the show a typical Cornstalk ex-
hibition, and Souter's Mcphistophelic cats all over
the front windows looked like an invitation to
every old maid in the town. There must be strong
leanings to high art on the part of old maids,
judging by the trend of the placards about the
picture-show. When they weren’t depicting cats
they broke out wildly into gaudy parrots—two
things that take the place of man in many a bony
bosom.
From W. Paxton & Co. (London) come several
bursts of melody. “ A Child of Spain,” an
effective song of the tra-la-la-bang-my-guitar
species, by Louis Cottell, is bright and showy and
qasy to sing. “My heart will have an answer,”
by Francesco Toni, is also an unobjectionable soul-
wail with a pretty accompaniment. Between it
and the third sample, “Oh, honey, will you lub
dis coon ? ” by Lindsay Lennox, there is a great
gulf fixed, though the coon is good of his class,
and if he appeared as a plump lady “ coon ” with
a small waist and one striped trouser hitched up
he would do well at any music-hall. The infliction
of the bundle is the “ Trilby ” waltz, by Charles le
Th’Ore—obviously strung together to make hay
while the boom lasts. A feature of this edition of
music is the elimination of the back p irt of the
cover, which gives it rather a cheap appearance.
An international tribute is being raised at *Ome
to present Lady Halle, the gifted fiddleress—who
once, in her dressing-room at Sydney Centenary
Hall, waved her violin like a battle-axe and liter-
ally jumped on a seedy little bunch of flowers
some self-advertiser had handed up to her. It
ought to be a big scoop, if “ the music-loving
public of those countries in different parts of the
world where she has played ” (see circular) rally
up with their offering, as asked, and commemorate
the fiftieth year of Lady Halle’s professional life
with a good big bag of gold.
However, I don’t suppose the Australian tribute
will amount to much, though the artful printing
of tlie magic word “Incomplete” on the lists of
patronage headed by royalty may lead one or two
of our most sportsmanlike self-advertisers to send
along in the hope of being billed next to Wales.
I’m not very keen on the Tribute myself, though
I was bn Lady Halle’s playing. The gifted artist,
whose gowns and diamonds were largely para-
graphed while here, is probably not in actual need
of money, and Australia rolled up as one musical
enthusiast whenever she arose on its platforms, so
we have nothing to reproach ourselves with on
that score. Besides, I’m sure Lady Halle would
feel a little shy at Australian tributes considering
the experience she had on her last departure over
a presentation silver lyre-bird with a long, un-
manageable tail, a crowd of insolvent worshippers,
and a pushing silversmith who wanted his money.
Mr. Weir, the light and soulful tenor, leaves for
Europe per Armand Behic on 25th inst. Uulike
most vocalists who gird up their collars and rush
off to conquer nations, Mr. Weir has no intention
of setting the Thames on fire. He is a rara avis,
merely going on a dutiful visit to his relations,
and meaning to return to Sydney at an early date.
It is nice to know there is one tenor in Australia
who has some consideration for the feelings of
Sims Reeves.
Be a country girl’s moan to me last week about
the R.C. youths being metamorphosed into
priests, I am reminded that in one thing at least
the R.C. spiritual experts and the Jewish rabbis
agree—that marriages outside their own church
are not advisable, though, of course, the rabbi-
being generally an old married man—doesn’t
spoke the wheel of his female congregation
as definitely as the celibate priest. I hear
that in a recent sermon at Sydney syna-
gogue, where the gorgeously-arrayed Miriams
and Rebeccas devoutly worship on Saturdays ere
doing the Block, Rabbi Davis impressed on the
male congregation that they needn’t look beyond
their own race when meditating matrimony, and
he made the thing quite pointed by gazing up-
wards with meaning at the ladies in the gallery.
That’s the sort of spiritual leader who runs a
great risk of being smothered to death in wool-
work slippers.
March weather in Sydney is rather wearing. It
was probably the first twinge of rheumatiz that
made a titled political lady audibly remark to her
hostess, the other day : “ I would have called upon
you yesterday, dear Mrs. Blank, only when I
started I realiy couldn’t walk straight.”
No woman who rides an egg-beater along a
crowded street can ever hope to look graceful or
imposing, but it’s not often she looks so utterly
ridiculous as did the wheelwoman I saw the other
day timidly steering down a main street behind
the shelter of an inactive water-cart. The drivers
of these dust-laying vehicles are most considerate
when your horse seems frightened of the spurt of
water, and turn it off while the equestrienne
passes—but they evidently don’t view the bikess
with the same favor, for the procession I am talk-
ing about hadn’t gone a hundred yards before the
Brute pulled a string, and the she-cyclist was
drenched to the skin. I never saw such a deplor-
able object as she looked tearing off home with
her badly-cut serge skirt clinging round hersodden
ankles.
I see there is a movement mooted to compel
bikists to register their machines, in order that
the pedestrian who gets upset by some of them
may have more than Mr. Buckley’s chance of
finding out and punishing the culprit. But I can
never understand any able-bodied person getting
run over by a gridiron, which is one of the simplest
things to upset in the whole wide world. The
merest toucli sends it over—and I talk not as the
scribes, for I have had experience myself. One
day a male bikist was coming too close to my foot,
and I sent him over as neatly as though it wasn’t
absolutely my maiden effort. I have seen irascible
old women bring the smartest wheelman to grass
by inserting an umbrella among his spokes—and
so I don’t think they should register cyclists on
the score of the great and imminent danger of
their gimcrack wheel to pedestrians. People who
can’t hold their own with the average bikist ought
to be numbered themselves—in asylums.
Bicycles always suggest bloomers, and I would
like to draw the attention of the he-woman to the
fact that in the recent Brisbane ferry-disaster lots
of saved women indubitably owed their lives to
the buoy-like action of their skirts. Of course, to
a woman of “ Miss Decixna’s ” moral rectitude the
idea of death would be preferable to rescue with
her petticoats ballooning on top of the water and
all the rest of her visible underneath —but for-
tunately most women only say “ How shocking ! ”
and don’t really care a row of pins if they are
saved in a smile and silk garters so long as they
are saved. And, after all, though skirts do become
demoralised in the water or in a high wind, and
though it is true that one can drown a great deal
more decently in bloomers, still people are not
always drowning, and it seems a great deal better
to be comparatively improper for five minutes in
the water than superlatively improper on land all
the time.
A backblock correspondent on the bifurcated
female : “ Don’t you city people plume yourselves
on possessing a monopoly of the advanced fashions
and a corner in the mannish-woman ! A couple
of weeks ago, while droving sheep at Boorooma, I
met a man tramping it, in company with his wife,
who Was togged up as a man. She was young and
(as one had ample reason to judge) well-made, and
her clothes fitted her rather too well, perhaps.”
However, my droving correspondent appears to
have admired the lady dressed in hubby’s togs,
and I really do wish the Bloomerite, with her
nubbly knees and knickerbockers, and the hair on
her chin and the feather in her hat, would take a
lesson from her, and go in neck-or-nothing. Be-
cause, if she did, the police regulations would clap
everyone of her in chokee.
My Melb. correspondent:—“The Leg. Council
spoiled Premier Turner’s pet bills, and Mr. Turner,
by fixing the prorogation ceremony for Saturday
morning at 11, spoiled the Council President’s
ordered afternoon tea. Afternoon tea at 11 a. in.
was a preposterous innovation that only a bachelor
president of the Vic. chamber of gilded bounders
could have perpetrated.
“Lady Brassey looked really ill at the proroga-
tion. She was white, and her cheeks were deeply
indented. Hers is a type of face that looks at a
serious disadvantage under such conditions. Her
prominent front teeth are assertive behind sunken
cheeks. She wore a handsome violet silk costume.
That she was ill indeed is shown by the fact that
the Governor put off his visit to the Cairqierdown
polo meeting in consequence, two days afterwards.
Camperdown was the favorite resort of the Hope-
toun set.
“Recently, a daughter of a staid, uppercrusty
Toorak family married and went to live in an up-
country town. All the residents promptly paid
their respects to the bride, ‘even the tradesmen’s
wives ! ’ as she wrote home to her sympathetic
mother and sisters. These ladies replied urging
her to repel such advances with the scorn thes
deserved. The fair young thing answered that
she must return the calls or be degraded in her
own eyes as failing in the duty of a gentlewoman,
but her dear ones might depend upon their Flossie
teaching those creatures a lesson. In due course,
accordingly, she sallied forth in much splendor
and did her duty to the bitter end, i.e., 15 minutes’
formality and a sheaf of cards at each house. Not
until she had shaken the dust of their domiciles
off her feet did her various hostesses examine her
cards, only to find, in every case, that their very
own identical pasteboards had been thrown back
on their hands.
“ The two ladies who have conceived the idea
of being farmers on their own account, and are
already working a small holding with success
somewhere in the neighborhood of Healesville,
Vic., are both highly-educated women, one being
an accomplished linguist, while the other, a devoted
student, has taken a university degree. Besides
milking cows and hoeing potatoes, they are coaching
up some of the youth of the neighborhood for
matric. Both are young and good-looking. They
are quite a new kind of New Woman. Instead of
shrieking their hate of man on the platform, they
take up one of his occupations without making a
fuss. Besides setting an example to other maidens,
they are furnishing material for future literature.
Here the novelist of the future may find an Aus-
tralian Bathsheba for a new ‘ Far from the
Madding Crowd.’
“ The Brasseys leave for Sydney per Sunbeam
on the 25th of this month. A trip to the Sounds
of West Coast, M.L., is also contemplated.
“ Most of Victoria’s Governors could have been
ticketed off by some descriptive adjective. The
present one ought to be described as * Brassey
the anomalous.’ The amateur mariner doesn’t
even seem to be a law unto himself. He is either
standing on his head or his dignity, and is a
literal example of not knowing where ‘’e are. ’ He
hedges himself about with all sorts of vain cere-
monies if anyone wants his advice or his patron-
age, but out of sheer good nature, perhaps, he
doesn’t mind playing to the gallery. His stand-up
quarrel with the racing-man, who evidently had
been imbibing, at Flemington, though it may
have tickled the crowd, caused a good deal of
adverse criticism in private. Being Governor
doesn’t always come by intuition, and some people
are making sneerful comparisons between old bird
Brassey and callow Hopetoun.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
It was Reuben Keirl, just sent up for five
years who, in prison garb, handed the pens and
ink, etc., around to pressmen at the Deeming
inquest. The Curse again ?
A Vic. solicitor has been arrested on the
usual charge of being a “ Gent One.” This event,
and the three and a-half years awarded recently to
a Goulburn (N.S.W.) law-shark, seem to suggest
that the shark brigade may, by-and-bye, begin to
get into gaol, when it embezzles the cash, just like
any ordinary person.
According to the official figures, there were
in Queensland, in ’93, 7489 kanakas ; in ’94, 7853 ;
and in ’95, 7908. This increase of 419 in three
years is precisely what Premier Nelson, at Surat,
called the irrefutable decrease in the kanaka popu-
lation.
In explanation of various daily newspaper
paragraphs, it may be mentioned that there are in
Sydney two sections of Italians, one of which
whoops for the king, militarism and slaughter, the
other for democracy and justice. .In the eyes of
the latter, the invasion of Abyssinia is a wanton
act of piracy and murder. The cablegram sent to
King Humbert by the Consul in the name of the
N.S.W. Italians represents only the aristocratic
section.


df
Wonderful Discovery!
R OSES
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION.
ri'HIS Lotion cures Swelling and Saudi/ HH /lit,
-Jii/Uniuid Kyes and Lids, Dimness of Si,/ht.
Very beneficial to those who have W aal; Eyes, as il
styen//thens the Sif/ht. By post, 3s. per bottle.
(gUF'Manufactured Solely by 11. A. ItO.'E, Iheitlisl,
531 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 496. Telephone No. 496
PEATE & HARCOURT,
THE PREMIER GROCERY ESTABLISHMENT OP AUSTRALIA
By Special Appointment,
Purveyors to
* I.
H.R.H. the Duke of Edin'/ttryh,
and
His Excellency the Governor.
GROCERS WINE MERCHANTS &. ITALIAN WAREHOUSEMEN.
best of goods at GREATLY REDUCED Fl!ices.
2 5 5 GEORG K STREET, SYDNEY.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyUoat
A astrol in.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTiiE St SONS, Brisbane Q’lani
AT PER DOZEN.
Ihe most important point for the consideration
of all persons who desire to possess photographs
of those nearest and dearest to them is with regard
to permanence rather than price. No photograph
that will turn yellow, break out in spots, or vanish
into nothingness within a few weeks can have its
value expressed in figures. When delivered, it
may shine like the enamelled mystery on a soap-
box, but the seeds of disease are there, and must
come to the surface. This may be regarded as
one of the certainties of cheap photography at per
CHARLEMONT & CO.,
Of 492 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
permanent work,
of ARllbl IC MERIT and SKILFUL FINISH’
and unite you with confidence to inspect their
Showrooms.
SOCIETY
CAMEO
The Schofield divorce-case was the Sydney
sensation of last week. Many queer stories could
be told of divorce-court suitors. A woman
divorced her husband on the ground of cruelty,
the Judge allowing her JJ2 per week alimony, and
granting her the custody of the child. After the
decree nisi had been made absolute she went back
to her husband and lived with him. “ Very few
feople,” she explained, “know we are divorced*
like him well enough, and he knows that if he
doesn’t treat me well I’ll leave him, take the child,
and go at him for arrears of alimony. We get on
well now.” She is living with him still.
* * * *
In the case of Schofield v. Schofield, last
week, Mr. Justice Simpson said it was the duty
of a barrister to throw up his brief if, in his
opinion, his client had committed perjury. The
Bulletin hopes there are few barristers who would
do so. It is not a barrister’s duty to try his client
—that is for Judge and jury.
* * * *
The true history of Major-General Hutton’s
entrance into N.S. Wales is said in Dibbsite
circles to be something like this. Dibbs was Pre-
mier, and the General arrived in the same ship
with the incoming Governor Duff. Hutton wired
Dibbs for permission to leave the ship at Mel-
bourne and proceed overland to Sydney, in order
to make the necessary preparations for a military
display on the 'Governor’s arrival. Permission was
accorded by wire.
Nearly a week after, Dibbs went down to Mel-
bourne on State business, and, wishing to be back
on the Monday morning to receive the Governor,
he was supplied with a special train on the Satur-
day night by the Vic. Government. Just as the
special was about to start, a smart-looking young
man appeared, dressed in a very loud check suit,
accompanied by several porters with luggage, and
HE'D BEEN THERE.
OLD BUSHMAN AND DISCOVERER OF SHANTIES (loq.): “ When ye see I snake on the track,
me lad, throw a stick at him, and if he's real he'll run.”
said he wanted to go ovah to Sydney; it was
necessary for him to take that train, or he wouldn’t
be there in time for the Guvnah. Who owned the
train? Dibbs said, “I do. Who the devil are
you ?” or words to that effect. “ Oh, I’m Majah-
General Hutton,” replied the check suit. “ Oh,
no, you’re not,” said Dibbs; “I know better.
General Hutton is over in Sydney making pre-
parations for the Governor’s arrival. He wired
me to that effect, and, as he is probably a man of
his word and understands discipline, you can’t be
him. You’re some impostor ! ” At this the
Major-General appealed to his honor, gave his
sacred assurance that he was himself, and finally
produced his trunks with his name emblazoned
thereon. Dibbs sat unmoved, with his hat on one
side of his head and a cigar balancing in the oppo-
site corner of his mouth. “Oh, no, you're not
General Hutton,”he kept on reiterating ; “ you’ve
probably stolen his luggage. Besides, who ever
heard of a Major-General in a check suit ! Oh,
no ! you can’t deceive me. You’re not General
Hutton.”
At last Dibbs relented and promised to give
him a ride over, adding, “ But, of course, if you
are an impostor, I’ll hand you over to the police
on your arrival in Sydney.” They got into con-
versation on the way, and the Major-General
became confidential. He was brimful of new and
enthusiastic plans for the reorganisation of every-
thing, and the tightening of the Silken Bonds on
the latest military models. He gave Dibbs to
understand that he would make a clean sweep of
all the colonial officers, and that he already had
men ready in England to come out and take their
places, passages paid here and back ; he had re-
ceived most doleful accounts of the Sydney officers
from a high military official at Melbourne. “Do
you think,” said Dibbs, “I’m going to let you
come out here a military Johnny Raw and go to
work and shove Australians out of the command
of their own forces ? No ! If you have any com-
plaints to make, or charges, put them in writing,
and then the officer charged can defend himself.
If he’s incompetent or wrong, out he goes. If he
isn’t, there he’ll stop, and he’s not going to go out
to make room for some of your friends in Picca-
dilly.”
The last phase, continues the Dibbsite stjry,
was most comical of all. The General never paid
any official visit to his civil chief—Dibbs - for over
a week, and was reminded of it by a curt
note from the Principal Under-Secretary, en-
quiring whether the rumor was true that the
M.-G. had arrived. Then the Major-General,
attired in his most gorgeous uniform as aide-
de-camp to the Queen, attended in state
at the Colonial - Secretary’s office to visit
his official chief. Not only did he do this
but he actually (and evidently of design) went
round paying official visits to all the other Minis-
ters, including poor little Johnny Kidd, Post-
master-General, who was scared out of his life and
didn’t know what he had to do when he got a
Major-General there, or how to address him. So
the unhappy Minister sat and stared during the
visit, and gasped relief when the door closed
behind Queen Victoria’s A.D.C. And that is why
the Major-General, in all his recent speeches,
always referred to the assistance he had received
from the present Government. And in gushing
over the results of his three years’ organisation he
never once mentioned the fact that these results
were, achieved without the importation of one
Britisher beside himself, and that the efficiency
was secured by the very officers whom, had he had
his way, he would have dismissed for the purpose
of sticking Imperial johnnies in their places.
* * * *
“ Is dancing sinful ?” screams a Yic. par-
son. Well, if the ladies really want to know,
dancing is about twice as sinful as beer or tobacco,
and about two degrees less wicked than a female
riding a bike. On an average it is not much less
undesirable than the steam roundabout. Dancing
is woman’s dissipation. They call it an innocent
recreation, but m sober truth it is a more or less
fleshly spree.
♦ * * *
There is no legitimate reason why the ex-
Lord Mayor of London, Jos. Renals, who is now
in Melbourne, should be fussed and feted by any
but the special class of inferior company-mongers
and boomers to which he belongs. He succeeded,
during his year of office, by his connection with
the notorious Barney Barnato, in making himself
obnoxious even in the city of London, where they
can swallow a good deal. He presided for a year
over probably the most rotten corporation in the
world, and is entitled to no respect on that
account. The Lord Mayoralty of London is only
traditionally important. It has nothing to do
with greater London, which is governed by the
County Council. The Corporation, of which the
Lord Mayor is the head, is a turtle-guzzling,
wine-bibbing ring of privileged persons who
fatten on public property, and wallow in jobbery.
* * * *
The Vic. parson who fulminated against
the fleshliness of waltzing might have scored a
point with a quotation from Goethe’s “ Sorrows of
Werter.” In one of his letters Werter suggests
that he was warmed by an unholy fire when he
got Charlotte for a partner— ‘To hold m my arms
the most amiable of her sex ; to glide round trie
room with her as swift as lightning, and insensible
of any other object. Oh, my friend, shall I con-
fess? I had then, even then, formed the resolu-
tion that whatever woman I loved and intended
to marry should never dance an allemande with
any man but myself, and, as I live but certainly
you comprehend me.” A professional purist
never seems to know enough to make out a strong
POCKETS AT LAST.
HE: “Have you a match? I want to light my pipe."
SHE: “Ho. My match-box is in my other bloomers.”
case against the particular “sin ” he has placed in
the criminal dock. A sinner might get it con-
victed if he cared to prosecute, but he doesn’t.
Goethe, for instance, never dreamed of preaching
in condemnation of Charlotte’s social pastimes.
He merely formed the idea that his girl would be
all the better for not waltzing with any other
johnnies who might want to squeeze her.
A “maintenance man” doing 12 months
in Darlinghurst for wife-desertion was agreeably
surprised at being discharged the other day, after
doing four months of his time. His first thought
was that his wife had repented, and was willing to
receive back her prodigal hubby ; but, on inquir-
ing at the gate, he was told that his wife had just
gone up for six months’ “hard”—hence his dis-
charge.
Miss Bertha Rossow, having
been duly “benefited” at Melb. Town
Hall, sails for ’Ome at the end of the
month with fair prospects of success
as an oratorio and ballad concert-
singer. The Victorian lady (she was
engaged to support Foli when that
imposing basso visited Australia) has
a soprano voice which runs clear and
high, and although she is no longer a
very young artist, the desired “course
of European training” will doubtless
develope her vocal powers consider-
ably. Miss Rossow’s friends can
hardly expect her to pale the star of
Melba, but they are justified in
hoping that she will take up a good
position among the little crowd of
Australian singers abroad.
# # •
Mrs. W. C. Windeyer’s sug-
gestion of a couple of years ago to the
effect that she would shame the well-
to-do sons and daughters of old
people in N.S.W. charitable institu-
tions into contributing to their
parents’support by publishing quar-
terly the names of the unfilial brigade,
was considered at the time a bold and
original solution of the difficulties of
the charities’ officials; but, alas, some-
body explained the character of the
current N.S. Wales libel-law, and
madame and her coterie subsided
Maxted and co. now demand legisla-
tion to help them in attacking the
brigade, and even a little knowledge
of the subject makes it clear th t
either the libel-law should be amended
or a brand-new Act for the special
behoof of these close-fisted exquisites
should be promptly passed.
The Earl of Shaftesbury was the most
gorgeous vision that has ever inflamed the atmo-
sphere of Melbourne, on the occasion of the closing
of the session, lie had piled gold lace, and colored
goods, and dazzling buttons, and feathers, and
braid, and tinkling scraps of metal, all over him-
self and his waltzing horse, and the crowd laid
back its ears and simply gasped as he went glitter-
and jingling by. Proroguing such a small
Parliament with such a mass of man-millinery and
stunning pomp was like break.ng a moth on a
wheel, or opening a sardine-tin with a 00-head
stamper battery.
* * •
The wages of Sm are higher than the
wages of the W.C.T.U. „
.Northern
dress has
changed slow-
ly to some-
thing more
suitable for the
haunt of the
sensitive cro-
codile. White
coats and
dresses are
now the rule.
The white
coat is known
as “a ten-to-
one ” coat —-
ten to one that
there is no
shirt beneath
it.
* *
On the
Tweed (N.S.
Wales) River
the Kanakas
are becoming
civilised. In
two or three
of the centres
they have built
halls, where
dances are of
frequent oc-
currence. The
music is usual-
ly supplied by
a concubine of
one of the
niggers; the
instrument an
out - of - tune
concertina. As
women are
few, the ma-
jority of the
Kanakas trip
the light fan-
tastic with al-
leged white
men as part-
ners.
The other day a youth was arrested on
board a departing steamer at Launceston, Tas.,
and brought before the local Bench charged with
attempting to leave the island, and thereby
deserting his unborn child. The arrest was
effected at the instance of the “ lydy,” who said
ghe expecte d, in the not very clearly-defined future,
the arrival of a small edition of the flitting swain.
Pending the finding of a substantial guarantee
he intended to do the square thing, the lad
wag bustled off to gaol. The writer remembers a
more or legs s i m il ar case, wherein the little
stranger in the instance referred to made his
appearance in a coffee-colored suit when he was
billed to appear in purest white! Even with or
without a confession from the alleged male sinner
_ no con f ess j oll Q f even probable parentage was
recorded in the Launceston case—there are stacks
Miss BERTHA ROSSOW, a Melb. soprano who goes
this month to Europe.
Photo, by Talma.
of reasons for regarding as a grim humorist any
magistrate who sends a man to gaol on such a
pretext.
* * * *
A foreigner, residing at Fitzroy (Melb.),
has earned the sympathy of all right-thinking per-
sons. He was “pulled.” for firing a revolver reck-
lessly up .and down his house, and explained to
the Bench, in pathetic, fragmentary English, that
the people next door, despite his frequent protests,
PEARLS OF PRICE.
Wise was the Sheikh Abdullah, and he said:
“ If thou wouldst take a woman to thy bed,
And still have peace at home, do not delay,
But slay the cat upon thy wedding-day !
Perchance the cat’s may save the woman’s head !
“ When thou in mind debatest courses two,
Ask of a woman which thou shalt pursue,
And if she urge the right, march safely on
Upon the left. It will be well with you.”
Sydney.
ZADIG.


SHAVING- >'- ide
A PLEASURE by Using
& PINAU D
Shaving
Cream.
MATRIMONY.
Fyou wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult
us. Our varied and extensive clientele enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stations of life. Local
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecv. All communications confidential. Information
sent free to bona-fide applications. Write for pamphlet
and rules. ... . ..
Weldon’s Matrimonial Association.
57 PHILLIPS STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next Hotel Metropole).
Queen Victoria has never set eyes on any
of the British colonies, nor upon any portion of
Asia, Africa or America.
One of the pleasantest, coolest, most
central and best-appointed restaurants in Sydney
is the Manhattan Dining Room, situated in the
basement of the great Equitable Building in
George-street, Sydney. It is in the middle of the
busiest portion of Sydney, and is in every* respect
a high-class establishment with good cooking, good
.attendance, a lavish bill of fare, and luxurious
fittings and furnishings.*
JAMES KIDMAN, Grocer, Wine and Spirit Merchant,
OXFORD STREET and GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; also LONDON.
Salt Salmon (primest fish), i'/A per lb.
Salt Herrings (primest fish), lid each, or Is 3d per doz.
Ling- (primest fish) 5Jd per lb.
Dried Cod Fish (splendid breakfast d elicacy), 4Jd per lb.
Fresh Salmon (Skeena River), 7d tin.
Fresh Salmon (Alaska), G]A<l tin.
Red Herrings, 1 1 /£d each fish, or 6 fish for Bd.
Sardines, quarter-sized tins, 3jd per tin.
Sardines, half-sized tins, large, per tin.
Real Yarmouth Bloaters, Morton's, 7d per tin.
Anchovies in Oil, P. and C., Is per tin.
Herrings a la Sardines, Moir’s, fid per tin. _
Kippered Herrings, Bruce’s, Morton’s, or Moirs, Sid, 7d,
and 7Jd per tin.
Fresh Herrings, Moir’s, 5d per tin.
Herrings in Tomato Sauce, Morton’s or Moir s, )d and sd
per tin. .... , ,
Herrin"* in Shrimp Sauce, Morton s or Moirs, Sjd and
fiid per tin.
Anchovy Essence, C. and Blackwell s, lOd per bottle.
Bloater'Paste, C. and Blackwell’s lOd per glass jar.
Russian Caviare, C. and Blackwell’s, 2s fid per tnj.
Anchovy Paste, C. and Blackwell’s, lOd per glass jar.
Findon Haddocks, Morton’s or Moir’s, 7id and 8d per tin.
Lobster (reliable brand), lid per tin.
- ALSO,
Batty and Go’s English Jam, any assortment, 3id per tin.
San Jose (American) Jam, ridiculously cheap, 3d per tin •
'in glass jars, sid per jar. ;
Speciality Port Wine, per quart bottle, Is.
Speciality Claret, per quart bottle, Is. -
Toohey’s Ale, quarts, per dozen, 4s 9d. '
Ship Brand Cornflour, per lb., 3d.
Tooth’s Ale, quarts, per dozen, 4s lid.
Cornwell’s Ale, quarts, per dozen, 4s lid."'
Tasmanian Jam (all apricot), 3d per tin, per dozen 2s 9d
Dairymaid Milk, per tin, 6d.
Federation Flour, 3!4d per packet.
Anchor Brand Flour, 4d per packet.
Colonial Sugar Coy’s IC Sugar, 2d per lb.
Tooth’3 Stout, quarts, per dozen, 4s lid.
Toohey’s Stout, quarts, per dozen, 4s 9d.
Cornwell's Stout, quarts, per dozen, 4s lid.
Gold .Medal Milk, Gd per tin.
Colonial Sugar Coy’s IW Sugar, 2id per lb.
Colonial Sugar Coy’s Icing Sugar, 2id per lb.
Colonial Sugar Coy’s Loaf Sugar, 3d per lb.
persisted in goading their time-payment piano to
madness, and so, to drown its shrieks, he started
firing his little gun every time the brigand next
door commenced assaulting the unhappy instru-
ment. A Bench, with no more nerves than a
boiler-factory, fined the man 20s. and confiscated
his revolver, refusing to listen when defendant
requested them to confiscate the other fellow’s
piano. Nothing remains now but for the maddened
foreigner to proceed to extremes, and purchase a
second-hand trombone—or resort to walloping an
empty kerosene-tin with the iron-shod heel of a
shooting-boot, which the present writer has found
efficacious under similar circumstances. It is one
of the ridiculous inconsistencies of our laws that
the man who must not fire a revolver within seven
miles of anywhere may discharge a loaded trom-
bone when and where he pleases.
» * * »
THE PROPHECY OF THE PYTHONESS.
From a lady’s paper : “ Before long the idea will have
died out that the Creator made woman’s lower limbs (the
writer, of course, means legs) so beautiful in order to
make it a sin to look at them.” The sex is marching.
Not always shall the earth her sorrows mourn.
Her darkness flies before the light of Dawn.
New Woman comes ! and, from her wond’rous
birth,
Shall, by her charms, rejuvenate the Earth ;
And, like the Phoebus of the Grecian odes,
Shall straddle cycles looking down on roads,
While man is taught, as sure as eggs are eggs
(By grace divine), to glorify her legs.
* * * *
St. Colomb’s, Hawthorn (Vic.), is known
as St. Chow’s, Chowthorn, on account of the
Chinese classes conducted there by the plump and
pretty parishioners. Each young lady instructs
one Chinaman. The holy Chows turn up in
silk attire, and are real Celestial “toffs.” The
parson responsible for the show is a good-looking
clerical johnnie named Carey Ward. He is pur-
sued by the fair, who do good on earth in the hope
of obtaining their Carey Ward in Heaven.
* * * *
Cumberland Free Press (Parramatta),
14th March, ’96 :
Mrs. Hong Foon (till the date of her marriage a few
months ago Miss Harriet Telfer, daughter of Mr. Janies
Telfer, formerly overseer of H.M. Gaol, Parramatta) died
at her parents’ residence on the 11th inst. from phthisis.
Mrs. Hong Foon, who was 23 years of age, had for some
three years suffered from the fell disease to which she has
just succumbed. She was for some time, it is stated,
engaged in giving instruction in English to Hong Foon,
and ultimately she married her pupil. Her husband was
in business as a fancy-goods dealer, under the name of
“ Yet Hong C 0.,” but Mrs. Hong Foon’s illness assumed
such an aggravated form shortly afterwards that she
removed to her parents’ house, North Parramatta, and
the business has since been closed. The deceased’s funeral
took place on Friday afternoon.
» * » »
A hundred yards of Bayley-street, Cool-
gardie : “ Come on, old man, ’n’ have a drink. . .
“Coolgardie Miner— full account of the shipwreck
at” . . “Hannan’s.” . . “ Got any Tindalls ? ”
. . “ And railway accident at Mensdes’.” . .
“ Hooshtah ! ” . . “ How many do you want ?”
. . “ Gib ittikpen.’ . . “ Come ee wa-a-a-y.”
. . “Gib it gabbie.” . . “Gee off, Nug-
gett.” . . “ Hallo, Billy, how’s ” . . “This
one mundic, my word. ” . . “ I’ll give it to you,
you tunnel-mouthed son of a” . . “Golden
Age.” . . Ding-dong, ding-dong. . . “Fear-
ful floods at the Feather.” . . “W. I. Cosgrove
will sell by public auction ” . . “ Dry-blowers
drowned in the dust.” . . “ How’s the soak at ”
. . “camels, horses” . . “Drunk as” . .
“Forty ounces to the” . . “picks, shovels,
and other articles.” . . “ Bullockopakine’s
dry.” . . “ Dicken to you and your glass eye.”
. . “ There’s a secret in my heart, sweet” . .
Oh, shut up.” . . “ The Londonderry ” . .
“Swamped it from” . . “Paid-up or con-
tribs?” . . “You’d take sugar out of a bird-
cage.” . . “ Lovely specimens.” . .
“ See you at Kennedy’s.” . . “ Underlay shaft
wants ” . . “ Another Mi Cann rush.
“Whips of water.” . . “ Have one with
me.” . . “So long, old chap.”
. * * *
English as she is rote. Melb. Herald s
pen-lady discoursing on tight lacing in a style
that knows not the restricting corsets of grammar :
One girl I thought was sending herself to an early grave
I met at a ball. After seeing her “ salt-cellars and arms
latter veritable “drumsticks” —I was surprised she had
even as much waist as she had.
Early graves romping about ballrooms. Alas for
poor Smellboom !
Melb. : When the wife of a Church of
England clergyman, in active work writes to the
Argus that she is tempted to asphyxiate herself
and family with charcoal, through poverty no
wonder indignation is aroused ihe household
has to be kept on =£4o a year-just the.wagewhich
Bishop Goe receives every week, llifa tat little
white cob, with the natty brougham and plump
coachman, are agreeable reminders to the charcoal
woman. Jehu would turn up his nose at the
stipend of her husband.
H. : “The subject of parsonic celibacy is
suggested by the revelations about the threadbare
state of Anglicanism in Victoria. The bishops
tackle it nervously, but are brought up by sar-
casms over distinguishing between rich and poor.
The most whimsical of the shoal of letters
in the Melb. press, apropos clergy starvation, is
from an Anglican pastor, who complains that
through poverty he and his wife cannot have >.o
many children as they would like. *
Victorian : “It is no use for the clergy to
whine about the parsimonious
£2OOO a year, and so many others then
,£7OO, .£6OO, =8 ' •
The outburst over the shocking poverty of
the Anglican clergy in the Victorian bush is on y
a breaking of the tumor repressed in the Churoh
Assembly when Pastor Hitchcock broached the
matter. Bishop Goe then sat on him because it
was so undignified thus to bring our fellow
laborers in the vineyard into contempt.
* » * *
Scene, St. Kilda beach, morning after
Boxing Day. The sand is scarred and scoured
with castles made by children, wheel-marks, and
OVERHEARD AT RAND WICK.
HE: “I've just heard that this horse we’ve backed is ‘ stiff.’ ”
SHE: “Indeed! Well, perhaps in a long race like this his stiffness might wear off; you
can never tell !”
the many footsteps of yesterday’s picnickers.
But it is deserted now, save for two mysterious
dead-beats who are scanning the sand carefully
and occasionally picking up something they put
in their bags, which appear half-filled. W hat are
they looking for? Suddenly both dart at the
same point, and both snatch at some object, which
one secures. It is a fowl’s drumstick, half-eaten,
and goes into the bag among the scraps of biscuit,
slices of ham, plum-pudding, cake, &c., which the
man has been prospecting for. When the ground
is exhausted the men wash the sand off the scraps
of meat in the sea, and, eyeing one another
jealously, go into the scrub for their Christmas
feast.
* * * *
Last week N.S.W. Justice Stephen sen-
tenced a man to six years’ hard labor, and two
floggings of 20 lashes each. Most people hoped
never again to hear of a Supreme Court Judge
ordering the lash; Judge Stephen has disappointed
A SAFEGUARD.
SHE: “How do you keep the tramps away from your house?"
HE: “I hey know that my sister does the cooking.”
them Since the old Botany Bay leaven still
works in the Botany Bay courts, The Bulletin is
thankful that only men can be flogged nowadays.
V** * *
NSW Govt, proposes shortly to invite
architects throughout the world to send in designs
for new Houses of Parliament. Some 20 odd
years ago a precisely similar step was taken, the
prize being ultimately awarded to a Dublin archi-
tect who adopted the Gothic style. What has
become of those costly drawings? Speaking on
this subject, Minister Young is reported to have
said that he “intends framing the new conditions
of competition so as not to preclude the Govt.
Architect’s Dept, from competing. Will the
Govt, officers have access to the designs which
were considered good enough to be first-prized in
the previous competition ? If so, it will be mani-
festly unfair to outside architects, and few will
compete on the terms.
• * * *
Premier Kingston is much disgusted with
S.A. Register, which has consistently abused him
over the eternal hospital trouble. In appointing
the new Board the Govt, included Mrs. Chas.
Birks, a sister of R. K. Thomas, one of the
Resister proprietors ; but this attempt at concilia-
tion has been a complete failure, so far as the
Register is concerned.
* * * *
During the past year 71 cases of typhoid
fever have been treated at Maitland, N.S.W.,
Hospital, and only one fatal case has occurred.
Surely a medical record !
* * * *
Gov. Brassey and suite are now taking to
tandem-bikes :—•
An interest-
ing law-point is
being chewed
over with refer-
ence to a pro-
posed Melb.
divorce. Wife
got a judicial
separation five
years ago in
England on the
ground of cruel-
ty and two
years’ desertion.
Husband has
been i n Aus-
tralia ever since.
Period of deser-
tion necessary
under Shiels’
Act is three
years. Can any
of the time since
the first decree
be counted in
a petition by
the wife for
divorce for de-
sertion ?
* *
It was a
Monday morn-
ing. A Melb.
hot wind was
blowing, and as
a Bulletin
man, who had
only been mar-
ried a couple of
months, hurried
to the train, the
fat secretary of
the cemetery
waddled after
him. “Good
morning, Mr.
W ,”ne said.
“You did me
a good turn the
other day and
I’d like to do
you one now.
There are just
(in a whisper) a few family lots left. You’d
better get one —it’ll be so convenient to your
house.”
MOCKED.
(An epitaph for two last week’s suicides.)
God made me woman, and filled me with desire ;
Then mocked at me and said “Play not with lire.
God made me soft and wholesome to the touch ;
Then said to my quick blood— “ Love not o er-
much.”
God made me weak, as women mostly are—
A word of love will take us fast and far.
Thus soft and weak and very woman, I
Whose life Love’s fire has burned to ashes—die.
CYNICUS.
Her ladyship is much the best
Upon a speedy cycle riding,
So when you see them with the rest
On tandem-bike, his lordship guiding,
And though he’s at the wheel, as ’twere,
And looks a most important feller,
You’ll know he’s second-fiddle there—
Her ladyship is the propeller.
* • * *
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Gordon (Cobar): A.L.G. was the author of it....
Justice : Write to the Public Service Commissioners
Spanker B. : Received Dee : “ Wid ” will be printed.
Henry C. (Brisbane): Yes, on your assurance that it
is purely original Osifv : Received C.T. (Adelaide):
We must always hjive newspaper reports in such cases
Sid. E. : Unavailable W.A.M. : Thanks; but it won’t
do F.R. : “Anchor” hardly enough interest, lacking
climax Zef: “Roundabout” too slight Fricky :
Your comment on Mahony’s sketch of Lawson : “ A swag-
man doesn’t walk in the heat with a nosebag as big as his
swag; he camps.” Probably Lawson was walking specially
for illustration Alice: Ben Bolt might remember you,
but never your poetry R.C.B. : Thanks Mikonni:
“ Rubbing his hands in mechanical glee, he sprang into
the abyss.” Please imitate him E.W.N.A. : Burglars
tumbled over dead woman and fled. They do just the
same in Sydney when they tumble on a live woman. But
yours is only a yarn H. (T.); Three final verses fair;
rest flat Martin (Towers): Value might be shillings or
pounds to a collector. Birmingham, doubtless, best
market Rackarock : One decent spot—
The face of the world is wrinkled,
There’s rust on the wheels of Time ;
But drop your tears in the cup that cheers,
And set your woes to rhyme.
After that you become tangled .... J. Jingle: Can’t you
get a little more rhythm into it ? Count your syllables
and accents .... Drummer : The English character, like
most other things, has a good side and a bad side. The
Englishman at home is always scratched in the right
direction—his newspapers must grease his vanity to live.
When he comes out to Australia and finds that the other
side of him the piratical, bullying, mean, greedy,
pompous, hypocritical side—gets due prominence in this
beastly paper he naturally howls. Same in America.
Same in France. Same in Germany. All the nations of
the earth are engaged in misrepresenting the noble Briton.
Wilga : The “to some” is awkward Illalong :
Merit, but lacks reality, clearness, force, conviction. Dis-
trust the unfettered imagination X.Y.Z. : Rhymes too
rocky W.A.S. : Stiff and stale and stodgy. And the
doctrine goes in five words : Dollar almighty; cent all
but.. R.S.A. : Not quite up W.G. (Mansfield) : Not
up. The “ sombre pall ” and the “darkness drear” and
the “majestic night” are all ancient Travelling Agent:
“ Tight place ” not tight enough. Assurance that “ the
facts are true ” accepted. We want true facts. Untrue
facts are a curse Sigma (Melbourne) : It isn’t The Bul-
letin that provides the “ d d lies,” anyhow. It never
said that “the premium income of the four Maoriland
fire offices is a little over £l,ooo,ooo’’-you invented that.
This paper spoke of fourteen offices having that premium
income, and it didn’t say the amount was all collected
locally. This paper didn’t “ guess” the profits of foreign
fire offices either ; it got an elaborate series of estimates
from the Government Statist E.R.G. (Melbourne)’:
Only one line worth remembering : “ O slimy chairman of
the numerous boards.” H.A.O. (Melb.) : Will probably
use Old Australian : Where is the “ coarse, undisguised,
lampant rascality ” located ? Send address and particulars.
Henry J : Partially illegible hen-tracks received
This is a Fact : No name and address C. Kelsey : The
reason is that, as things go nowadays, you could buy
27 babies for the price of a well-shaped fox-terrier pup
Bin Berne : Only good in spots Bay Ash : Much better.
Will print Citizen : Thanks for letter D.D.D. :
Material for a good yarn wasted R.A.W. : Some more
good material wasted. The scheme for freezing laborers
on strike deserves better treatment J.C.M. (Welling-
ton): Received. Eurema (Mansfield): The man who
sends along two aged wheezes, and calls the older
Methusaleh of the pair “the following original short
story,” deserves to be deposited on an ant-bed E.B.
(Wellington): It has already happened all over the world.
Looks like a stupid attempt to localise an old gag
Yaruriga : Too ironic to be earnest; too earnest for irony.
The Billy: Johnnie clever; Muriel weak; climax
stale E.B. : Little force; and “Isabel” isn’t familiar
enough Ethel (Q.) :“ Harp” vague and weak Yar-
ran : Thanks O B : Coals to Newcastle—one an old
Bulletin story ; the other, of course, unprintable
A.F. ; The Australian one. There is none sounder, and,
that being so, why not stick to your own country?
Khancoban : One may do as suggestion Fred. Y.: To
hand Vagus' Looks spiteful. And The Bulletin
doesn't wish to see Dr. Cockburn rejected. It sincerely
hopes he will be returned. He is an able politician, a
good democrat, and a refined and honorable gentleman.
Zin (M.L.): “Voices” and “Free” acceptable
Nit. (Bon.): Please ca 11...... Corn stalk : Poem on “Sandy
Reid the Baron of Japan” received ~t C.W.M. :
Matter being looked into by the authorities
Bell M‘R. : See what you can do indirectly through
your local M.P. To publish such a letter would
be most indiscreet .. Michael: Verse weak; will deal
with subject one of these days T.G. (En.): “ Pay you ”
for copying hoary Yankee yarns and putting your name
to them? Gaol you, rather G.A.B. : Crude and in-
capable Robert Allan (M.L.): Possibly; send address.
Frances : Romantic English pastorals strewn with
nightingales and village dames far off our beat J.W.T :
May do Alpha : See article, March 14 J. O’R. :
Vision of Westralia received -same old sin, sweat, sand,
sorrow, and shilling beers. Shake up the epitheto in the
kaleidoscope A. List: Worthless Esa Karos: Dull.
J.E3I. : Possibly one ; write less, polish more
Buveur : Can’t you get a goddess with burning arms and
snowy lips? It would be a change W.M. : Three
months late. Hermes :’ None usable A.E.H. :
“ Family ” not up Nea : Weak sentiment Mulga
Jim : Too much “ A,way ! away !” about your shriek. On
second thoughts, there isn’t enough Zobo : Too melo-
dramatically moral Tiny Tim : Give us crisp comment,
not mere speech-abstracts, and get rid of the local point
of view. Never forget you’re writing for all-Australia
The Saint : The Bulletin doesn’t now seriously oppose
Freetrade. It wants to see N.S.W. swallow a full dose of
the article for which the Cobdenites have yelled so long.
The best cure for Freetrade is—Freetrade J.S. : No
ease for publication so far; if genuine) the Ben. Soc. would
aid Black Dog : Literary art has no connection with
conventional morality or alleged justice. Like the wind,
fiction btoweth whither it listeth. Pater found a pearl on
the mountain-tops ; Zola picked up rubies in the gutter.
And you’ve misread the story; alleged evidence doesn’t
exist Jimmie P. : Thought answered ; will hunt up
Letter merely paraphrases English newspapers.


MILES T. CARROLL &. CO.,
Mining and Finance Brokers, Valuators &c.,
PRACTICAL & RELIABLE FINANCIAL ADVISERS
''-r-IN
STOCK, SHARES. OR REAL ESTATE.
Trust Money advantageously Invested. Best
Interest and Security obtained.
Expats report on Mines throughout Australia.
TO <ln ( ii-sl., Me bourne. [Telephone 1603-.
—THE—
SYDNEY FURNISHING HOUSE,
175 PITT STREET (near King Street).
Artistic
AND
Economical
House
furnishers,
FOR THE
DRAWING
ROOM.
See Our
BAMBOO-
-SUITES !
Upholstered in Choice
and Artistic Materials.
5 Pieces for
Eight Guineas.
COSEY CORNERS TO
MATCH.
Oraantels
AND
Cabinets
BAMBOO.
J. W. CLIFF, JUNR., & CO.
The Wild-Cat Column .
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria
issues a report and balance-sheet which are full of detail,
easily understandable, and in every way satisfactory—ex-
cept in the matter of the expense account, which is the
stumbling-block in almost every Australian and American
office. The documents, in their clearness and exactitude,
are a model of what an insurance society’s report should
be, and frequently isn’t. The premium income for ’95
was £110,295, which, as the visible result of the hard
times, is £4OOO less than for ’94 and £ll,OOO less than for
’93. The interest on investments (£45,000) is, however,
a decided improvement on previous years. Expenses are
about 29 per cent, upon premiums, or 21 per cent, on
total income, which is about the same rate as last year,
though a good deal higher than that for 1892 and ’93.
The losses are remarkably low, and the interest
on investments more than covers all death and
endowment claims. Also, though there is a falling off
in the total premium income, new premiums are rather
better than last year, so it would seem as if things were
beginning to look up again.
The really astonishing feature of the report is
that the total funds (£865,872) are £36,000 lexx than they
were a year ago, this being probably the first instance
where a big Australian life office has admitted such a
decline. The present is the Mutual of Victoria’s bonus
year, and the above result has been arrived at by a
remorseless writing-off of known and possible losses
incurred during the disastrous five years from ’9O to ’95.
Properties acquired by foreclosure have been written
down by £22,522, and the valuation of the society’s office
premises has been reduced by £56,242. Also, £675 has
been written off other investments ; £357 off furniture ;
and £21,409 set aside as a reserve for possible losses in the
future. The properties have been valued on the basis of
the rentals they actually produce to-day, so that they
ought to be fairiy down to bedrock prices. The Bulletin
congratulates the Mutual of Victoria on its action. There
are almost certainly other societies which, if they wrote
off all their ascertained and suspected losses in one act,
would also show a big diminution in their funds, but
which, for the sake of appearances, retain bogus values
on their balance-sheets, and show a lot of their losses as
assets ;* and the Mutual of Viotoria, in endeavoring to put
itself on an absolutely sound basis, regardless of appear-
ances, has done the only right thing under the circum-
stances. This society sets out its assets with remarkable
clearness. There are no doubtful items, such as “ unpaid
instalments of annual premiums,” in its list. The overdue
interest is set forth separately, and only amounts to a
very small fraction, which speaks well for the soundness
of the securities. There is a respectable surplus to be
divided, despite the heavy writing-off, and, apart from
the truly awful expense account, there is nothing in the
balance-sheet to complain of.
Considering Che awful depreciation which has
taken place of late in the values of Australian city pro-
perties, this paper would be glad to see a number of other
institutions (not insurance societies alone, by any means)
write 30 per cent, off their valuations after the Mutual of
Victoria’s fashion. The manner in which some of these
concerns return the same old, inflated figures year after
year—to say nothing of the manner in which some of
them make the valuation bigger, despite the slump that
has taken place—is a most melancholy attempt to shirk
the inevitable and trust to the chapter of accidents.
* * » *
Two Melbourne banks, the Colonial and the
Royal, have been intimating for a good while past t’.iafe
their balance-sheets are really not a true statement of
their affairs. Money has been lost through depreciation
of assets, and when the new Companies Act is passed,
authorising the writing-off of lost capital, they propose to
write off these losses and start fair. Meanwhile they don’t
even disclose the amount of the losses or explain how far
the regretted unreliability of the balance-sheets goes.
The Commercial of Australia has now joined the ranks of
the institutions which want to write off their losses as
soon as the new' Companies Bill is passed. Meanwhile the
bill has been thrown out again, and may not pass for
years, so The Bulletin suggests that these banks, which
all obviously desire to do the square thing, shouldn’t wait
any longer, but should debit their deficiency to profit and
loss, and let their shareholders and the public know
exactly where they are. The excuse that it is necessary
to wait till a new Act is passed before they cease putting
their admitted losses in the balance-sheet as assets looks a
little thin. That matter can be squared quite as easily by
a debit to profit and loss or to suspense account as in any
other way.
• • • •
The New York Life Insurance Co. reports (on
the certificate of the State auditors of New York) that
its funds are now £36,000,000, its total liability to policy-
holders a little over £30,000,000, and that the surplus now
reaches £4,946,230. The premium income for ’95 was
£6,238,426, and the total income £7,796,762. The ex-
penses are the only serious drawback to the New York
Life (as they are also to the other two “ American Giants. ”)
These amount to 26 per cent, of the premiums, or nearly
21 per cent, of the total income. The A.M.P., which is
the only Australian office that can in any possible way
compare with the New York Life, spends less than half as
much of the policy-holders’ money in expenses. The
Maoriland Govt. Department spends 25 per cent, less, and
two other Australian offices—both very small ones com-
pared to the great N.Y. —also manage to work on a more
economical basis.
* * * »
The Industrial and Provident Permanent Bene-
fit Building and Investment Society and Bank for Savings
(Great Scott 1 ! 1), Sydney, announces, amid the general
collapse, that it is still going on as usual. During the
year it paid £9077 in interest to shareholders, £532 in-
terest on deposits, and Lad a small profit of £251 left.
Also, it has a bank ere lit of £5525, and its deposits
are now only £4744, whereas its share capital is
£114,000. Its survival amid the smash of so many other
institutions arises from the fact that it didn’t rush madly
for deposits, and raise nmoy on debentures, and put itself
in pawn to the bank, and ry to buy up the earth with the
proceeds ; that it didn ' 1. ay £500,000 worth of “ estates ”
in the boom-time, p ing £50,000 cash and owing the
rest at 8 per cent. , that it didn’t build a huge office
with an immovable mortgage on it; and that it traded
on its own money an 1 was content to be a very ordinary
building society all through. Therefore, it is now in a
position to pay off all its depositors in one act, and its
survival is a solemn warning that he who doesn’t want
quite all the earth often gets more of it in the end than
he who does.
* * * •
The liquidator of a busted Melbourne society
advertises for sale the unpaid capital of the concern. In
other words, he sells the shareholders to be squeezed by'
the buyer. Why not auction them individually, instead
of in a lump, as in the good old slave days? “ Lot 14,
nice-looking female shareholder, aged 25. The lot will
please stand up and be inspected! Holds 125 shares.
Can be relied upon to work hard until she has paid up all
her liabilities. The lot is healthy, muscular and indus-
trious, and will probably pay off her calls in less
than two years 1 ” How would it sound ? Also, consider
the advt. in the Age : “ Splendid lot of healthy share-
holders for sale. Can be inspected at the office of the co.
A few old damaged shareholders going cheap.”
* • * *
For the year ending 31st March, ’95, <£4,858,900
was lent on mortgage in Maoriland. On about £1,000,000
the interest wasn’t specified, and may have been anything.
Of the remainder, two-thirds was lent at over 6 per cent.,
and about one-third at over 7 per-cent., while one-fifth
was at 8 and "from that up to 40 per shent. per annum.
The average rate was about 6}, so a State Land Bank
lending at 5 per cent, would have saved the borrowers
about £85,000 a year in interest on this one year’s trans-
actions alone. And the State Land Bank can make a big
oroflt at 5 per cent.
*
The preference shares (£lO paid-up) of the Na-
tional Rank are now selling at £9 7s. 6d., and its deposits
are worth 19s. lOd. in the £. Bank of Victoria £lO pre-
ference shares have got up to £8 17s. 6d., and those of the
Colonial (£9 15s. paid) have risen to £4. Even the Com-
mercial of Australia has participated a little in the general
rise, and its £lO shares are worth £2 ss. The National
Bank’s ordinary shares, which were at 4s. a year ago, are
now worth 365., and the Victoria’s are quoted at about 12s.
Altogether, Melb. Stock Exchange feels better than it has
done for three years past.'
* * * *
Out of the 48 Rich Landlords in Vic. Legislative
Council, no less than 30 are directors of companies. And
these 30 voted almost unanimously against the clause in
the Companies Bill making directors responsible for the
truthfulness of the reports they issue to the shareholders
and the public, and making them personally liable for
dividends declared out of bogus profits. Grimwade,
M.L.0., was almost the Only director in the crowd wh°
seemed to feel that his honesty and veracity oould stand
inspection. Old James Service declared that “ no decent
man ” would be a director if the Bill passed. Definition :
A decent man is a man who declares dividends out of
sham profits supported by a false balance-sheet ?
* * * *
Item from the report of the City of Melbourne
Bank enquiry “ Counsel alleged that and Co., in
order to make their overdraft look smaller, for balancing
purposes, gave the bank orders on the Treasury. There
was no money owing by the Treasury to the company, so
that the orders came back dishonored, and the overdraft
was not decreased at all, though the balance-sheet would
apparently show a decrease of the debit balance owing to
the bank, as the orders were not returned until after
balancing.” This practice has been heard of in the cases
of many other banks, and it is a curious commentary on
banking morality. If a client with a huge overdraft that
couldn’t stand inspection paid in valueless paper on the
last day of the half-year, and got it credited to his account
to make the overdraft look smaller and the liquid assets
in the balance-sheet look larger than they really were,
well knowing that the overdraft would go up and the
bank’s alleged cash go down to the original figures next
day when the bogus cheques came back dishonored, he
presumably did it either to please himself or to please the
management. One or other of them evidently wanted to
deceive somebody with a hollow pretence that things
were very different from what they were—in other words,
if such a transaction was done, somebody was, in effect,
falsifying the accounts and making gross misrepresenta-
tions to the public presumably for the purpose of getting
money from somebody. What branch of the criminal law
does this come under—passing a valueless cheque or
similar document ? —falsifying the accounts ? —getting
money (deposits) under false pretences ? —conspiracy ?
perjury, seeing that the balance-sheet was afterwards
solemnly certified before a J.P., or what?
* * * *
Judge Molesworth’s fearless speaking on cronk-
banking jugglery evoked loud cheers in Melb. Insolvency
Court last Friday. A City of Melb. director was lamely
trying to justify advances to directors, and deprecated
publication of such advances on the singular ground that
men of “any standing or any principle whatever” would
refuse to serve on a board on such conditions. The Judge
spiritedly interjected : “ Some directors of ‘ standing ’ or
‘ principle ’ would object to helping themselves and voting
for themselves large overdrafts out of the money of the
depositors.” And the awe-struck usher could with diffi-
culty repress the cheers that greeted the following : “ We
have had in this Court in connection with the Federal
Bank, and again now in connection with this bank, ex-
amples of directors getting large advances out of the
money under the control of the manager, and we also see
the lamentable results that these overdrafts have caused
where not sufficient security is given. We have seen un-
fortunate depositors and shareholders in the bank —inno-
cent people—ruined through these practices which you
now defend.” Poor Judge Molesworth gets small thanks,
howpver, for his outspokenness, as witness the Full
Court’s onslaught on him in the J. B. Davies case.
* * * »
Hon. Tom Loader’s confessions re the sums of
City of Melbourne Bank coin absorbed by certain queer
customers suggest that he ought to change his name to
Breech-Loader.
* * * *
The Equitable Life Assurance Co. has now
“sacked” the high-salary members of the Melb. staff,
and further retrenchments are bound to follow. Already
the cost of the big white-elephant building at the corner
of Collins and Elizabeth streets amounts to £680,000,
interest on which is debited to the Melb. business. There
is another £70,000 or thereabouts to be ante’d up before
the structure stands completed. By the way, how much
did the marble palace of the E.L.A.C. in Sydney cost, and
what have the ’Murkan shareholders to say concerning
these reckless advertisements ?
* * * »
W. Pritchard Morgan, M.P., has taken up
6000 sq. miles of N. Territory land on pastoral and mineral
lease from S.A. Govt., and subject'to strict labor condi-
tions. Most of the land is on the Victoria River.
» * * *
Adelaide’s Co-operative Society flourishes. Last
half drapery and boots each gave 6J per cent, profit, hard-
ware 7J per cent., and grocery 17 per cent. Profit dis-
tributed : 6 per cent, interest on purchasers’ capital, 5
per cent, on other capital, and Is. in the £ div. on all pur-
chases. Good enough to stimulate co-operation, which is
moving very slowly.
* * * *
Computed that the aggregate wealth of the
members of the Johannesburg Reform Committee, now
in Pretoria gaol awaiting trial for treason, is 40 millions
sterling. Bail is refused, though the trial is not till April.
Conviction will mean, it is probable, among other things,
confiscation of the prisoners’ estates. And then the real
trouble will begin.
* * * *
Packed in dry hay and old cases, and shipped
as ordinary cargo, when selling in Dunedin (M.L.) at
6d. a dozen, a trial shipment of eggs brought a “shilling
a dozen” in London in Dec.
• * * *
The S.A. Government Actuary states that out
of 14 friendly societies doing business in his province 13
are practically insolvent, the deficiency being £754,000.
* * * *
Several firms are sending goods to Coolgardie
goldfields via Esperance in preference to Fremantle. Six
steamers arrived at Esperance during last fortnight. The
Customs duties for the month amounted to over £3OOO,
and several Adelaide firms have opened branches there.
The Esperance-Coolgardie railway is gradually forcing
itself on the Govt.
• * * •
Promises and performances. From last report
of Tindal’s Co. (W.A.): —“Guided by reports from your
mine manager and experts, your directors estimated that
at least 400 tons of quartz would be milled per month,
and that it would yield not less than ljoz. gold per ton—
say, 600 oz. at £3 17s. 6d., £2325 —instead of which there
were only 90 tons milled for one month for a total yield of
46J0z., realising £169. Such a woeful difference between
the estimated and actual returns from the battery for one
month disorganised the company’s financial arrangements,
and caused your directors a great deal of trouble and
anxiety.” Amusing—to non-shareholders.
* * * •
W.A. journals have at last to tell the painful
truth —“ Bayley’s Reward is shut down.” To give the
pinched-out pot-hole another jig, a join with Bayley’s
South on a larger capital is talked of. A ghastly pair to
have your money sunk in.
* * * *
How these W.A. newspaper mining “experts”
do stultify themselves. January last Dawson A. Vindin
(there used to be a stamp-dealer of that name) in Perth
Mining Journal howled at the Empress of Coolgardie as
a property “ fine in area, but . . . it is considered
extremely doubtful whether there is sufficient gold to
make it worth while crushing the stone.” Now, within
six weeks, The Bulletin notes him “boosting” the
Empress for all she is worth. “ A 28ft. lode intersected.
Tests of this formation by fire, acid, cyanide and chlorina-
tion have given very satisfactory results, ranging from
I3dwt. to 98oz. per ton.” And this is the kind of “ pap ”
the Britisher is fed on. The Empress has five heads, and
although the co. has sufficient water it does not appear
to be in a hurry to let the mill wrestle with this alleged
rich formation.
• * * •
Melb. Age : “A Victorian, writing from Cool-
gardie, says that many of the mine-owners are applying
for more exemptions. If these were not granted 150,000
men could be employed.” 150,000 ! 1 Shade of W.A’s
choicest liar. Welcome the champion.
* * * *
Richards, ex-Bendigo School of Mines metallur-
gical lecturer, is not very favorably impressed with the
apparent prosperity of Coolgardie. “ I do not think it is
of a lasting character. There is plenty of money in cir-
culation, but it is all outside capital. None of this money
has been derived from the ground. The place, in fact the
whole district, has been over-boomed by newspapers and
Shoddy mining experts, and the great majority of the
properties floated will never be worth sixpence. There
will, I am sure, be a big crash when the crisis comes.”
* * * *
The Great Boulder has declared a 2s. div.
(£17,000). Present market-value of mine, say, £1,100,000.
Bayley’s No. 1 South on a rich patch. Three
miners caught helping themselves—one with £7O worth
in a billv. And the poor shareholders haven’t had a div.
* * * *
The total export of gold from West Australia
for February (remarks Sydney 1).T.) was 18,9220 z., valued
at £68,104. The export from Mount Morgan mine alone
for the same period was 12,0500 z., valued at £50,600. The
market-value of Mount Morgan is £3,000,000 , that of the
Westralian mines at least £30,000,000. There 's a contra-
riness about these figures which seems repugnant to com-
mercial considerations, if not to common-sense.
* » * *
White Feather Reward—l7o tons, 4460 z. ; only
crushed half-time, “owing to the impossibility of getting
screens for the mill. Numbers of other mills are hung up
at. present for the same cause.” Coolgardie is never har l-
up for an excuse, but the want of battery-screens is rather
weak, considering that one man could carry enougn
screens from the end of the railway to the mines to last a
month.
- * » ♦ *
Wired East that H. C. Callahan, American ex-
pert, pronounces the Great Boulder one of the greatest
mines ever inspected by him. He is also said to be very
pleased with Hannan’s Reward. A few days before it was
said that he had just returned from South Africa (where
he had never been), that he was there to buy mines tor
Bratnober, with whom he had made a lot of money out ot
Boulders and Hannan’s Brown Hill (two more booming
lies); also, that he condemned the field on his last visit.
Callahan condemned not the field but quite a number of
mines, all of which it has since been proved would be good
properties if they only had more gold in thenn
From Cue: “Mining operations are quiet, but
good results are got from mines in full working. Bow
many ape there ? The boom has departed from Cue.
Having' too little gold was bad enough, but too much
water has damned it. It has recently had one or two
good crushings, anyhow. Golconda, 350 tons for 68ooz.
Another rich shoot has been struck in the West Aus-
tralian mine, equal to IOOOoz. to the ton. As to whether
it will ever get the ton is quite another question. Suffi-
cient for the hour is the richness thereof.
* * * *
Clarke and Co. (Adelaide and Melb.) in their
share circular report, with all seriousness, that from Ist
Jan. to 3rd March, ’96 (two months) two dividends in all
have been declared by Westralian gold-mines. One was
by the Golden Bar South, which is gone bung, the divi-
dend being a small part of the shareholders’ own money
returned. The other was by the Mount Charlotte North,
and it was from “ proceeds of sale of company’s pro-
perty.”
*¥* * '
One of the saddest of sad sights at Coolgardie
is the number of idle batteries all waiting for ore, not
water, and the steady erection of another of 50-heads for
the United Ores and Metal Reduction Works—the joint
property of several companies floated in London over a
year ago—none of which has any particular use for
the machine, so far as anyone can discover.
* * * ¥
Stuff that goes down in London re W. A. mines.
Of White Feather Extended, the chairman said : “ Unfor-
tunately, we have been most exceptionally placed with
regard to the development of the mine. During the time
we have been in possession of it the exemption from the
labor clauses has been in force ; the mine has been vir-
tually closed for two months, and nothing has been done.
Arrangements, however, have been made by which we
commence work when the exemption ceases.” Blissfully
ignorant that the exemption period in W.A. and every-
where else is optional and not obligatory.
* * * *
West Australian Review—published in Lon-
don to boom W.A. mines, mostly of the wild-cat order :
“ The Star of Coolgardie is another property which has
come under my personal observation. The reef (average
width 4ft. 6in.) is an exceedingly good one, and various
trials have yielded from soz. to 30oz. to the ton.” How
much have they crushed ? This mine was sold with 30.0
tons at grass for £lOO, and it was so sold because a
capable manager reported the reef too poor to pay.
* ¥ ¥ *
Another bitter disappointment to all but the
boomers. The first crushing from the Norseman went
16dwt., instead of 2oz. or 3oz. as predicted by all news-
papers. The excuse this time is that the salt-water pre-
vented good amalgamation. The time, thank heaven, is
corning when the Australian public will be as unanimous
in disbelieving all W.A. news till it has been proved true
as the correspondents are in lying out there. After that
Jay Bull and co. will awake as from a hideous nightmare
and swear off from all mining speculations in Australia
for a generation.
* * • »
For the fiftieth time we read that the sale of the
Croesus at Hannan’s is completed. Now it has transpired
that one manager refuses to give up possession to the
other. A screw loose somewhere.
» * * *
The Hannan’s Proprietary Development Co., it
is said, has a wages-sheet of £4OOO a month to keep its
500 acres going.
» * * *
Several Melb. speculators are going “nap” on
the Buchan Proprietary, working a Gippsland carbonate-
of-lead deposit, estimated to pan out £4 profit per ton of
concentrates, averaging 60 per cent, lead, 20oz. silver, and
sdwt. gold. Ten tons of carbonates go to the ton of con-
centrates. Whether these paper estimates approach
actual figures will not be known till May, when the con-
centrating jigs will speak plainly on the matter. In the
event of failure, one Melb. widow will go down for £BOOO.
* * * *
Men are leaving Sheep Station in droves, hur-
riedly, at the dead of night; and the storekeepers who, with
the Melbourne papers that were anxious to pack all the
miners in Australia into Gippsland, are responsible for this
wild-cat scramble, have burnt their fingers. It is felt
locally that the name of “ Owe-me-owe ” should extend
over the whole district.
* * * •
The fact that the bottom is kicked out of Sheep
Station is eloquently testified by the number of
charges of wife-desertion laid agaihst miners on the field
by their wives in other parts of the province. The
cheapest way home.
**. * *
Sydney Sunday Times strongly tips United
Ulster (Bendigo) on the strength of its neighborness to the
Londonderry "For the same reason The Bulletin advises
standing off Ulsters. Notoriously patchy, the Londonderry
is the sort of mine that spins speculators to the seventh
heaven, and the next day pinches their pockets with a
nasty slump. No other Bendigo mine has broken the
backs of so many sanguine supporters. The Ulster, with
similar country to wrestle with, is pretty well sure to re-
peat the game. When local people do in their “bit” over
the pair what show have outsiders of raking a pool ?
* * * *
Guiding Star Co., Ballarat, has so far mulct the
Star of the East of £32,000 royalty, and will have another
good fatten on the South Star, the G.S. is a 10-share co.
in the hands of three nippers. Last known sale, £7OO for
a share.
* * * *
In four months a Mt. Elliott (Vic.) battery has
milled 2831 tons for 5860 z. 15dwt. Certainly spread over
a long time, but for a new field it speaks well.
* * * *
Bendigo’s March calls : <£7ooo—<£9ooo less than
Feb. By the end of the month divs. and calls will be
neck and neck.
•****',
Bendigo for cheap scrip. Only two out of 60
stocks are quoted over £2, three over £l, and nine
range overlOs., the rest anywhere between Is. and Bs.
But a man must have his eyes skinned to make money at
Bendigo. If not in with certain cliques, far better to
play the monkey-trick with your money.
* * * *
Ballarat and Bendigo mines have had a mumpy
time since the new year—more especially the latter, for
business on Ballarat ’Change hasn’t got out of a corpse
move for weeks at a stretch. At Bendigo, things look on
the turn.
* * * *
Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.), has declared its
243rd div. of £l. It has almost enough 2oz. ore in
sight to ensure its becoming the greatest gold-producer
and div.-payer Vic. has seen. It works a 2ft. vein which
has averaged a shade under 2oz. to the ton for 20 years
Star of the East, Ballarat, even with .£5344 from
calls, is some £BOOO odd to the bad on the past half.
Milled 12,122 tons for 25990 z. 15dwt. 12gr.— anything but
cheerful. However, there are encouraging prospects at
2000 ft. in No. 1 shaft, while in No. 2, the western ground,
where it is thought the past profitable makes may be met
again, will he explored from the 1000, 1200, 1500 ft. levels.
eT]nipped with a new pumping-plant, the Star will s.vs*
maticallv prospect its deeper levels, so heavy call-bleeding
is booked for another spell, unless something good
happens. ( ,
Bendigo’s side lines —over a mile of country
lying between the Hustler and Garden Gully reefs—are at
last to have a thorough test with the aid of local and
British capital. It is in this area Bendigo looks for future
expansion, and any payable strike would put a big thrill
into the field’s life. The late Angus Mackay and the
Bendigo Advertiser, originated this development move-
ment many years ago.
The Star of the East, which never passed a
fortnight without a div. for many a long year, is now for-
feiting shares for non-payment of calls.
* * * *
True Blue, Wyalong, 400 tons for 5500 z. gold.
A copper boom is looming. Copper has lately
been sold-to-arrive in London at £46—copper contents
only ’ ,
B.H. Proprietary, Block 14, Junction, and Block
10, pay Is. div. this month. Anent 10’s, the impression is
abroad that the increase in the sulphide profit from
£6 14s. to £7 6s. a ton will mean larger monthly divs. ;
hence the recent buck in the stock.
* * * *
Cheap N.S.W. mining. The Occidental, Cobai,
crushed during the half-year 3363 tons for 561 oz., and
made a profit on the work.
¥ * * •
The title of the Mount Maude mine, near
Rockley (N.S.W.), in dispute for over a year, his been
granted to Crozier, holder of the conditional lease, and
original applicant. The jumpers in the Yalwal district,
too, have had all their claims set aside. These decisions
give satisfaction and tend to remove a suspicion as to
the manoeuvrings of certain persons who seem to be parti-
cularly friendly with officers of the N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment.
* * * •
Lady Jersey mine, Drake, N.S.W. is on the
market. It is a good little property, but will have to be
better than it has ever been to stand the capital proposed.
* * m m
Georgetown reports the finding of some very
handsome specimens from the new Greenhill rush
(between Western Creek and the Gilbert). Cavanagh
brought in a lump of stone weighing about 301 b., which
dollied out lOOoz. Several 17 and 15oz. pieces have been
found, and some 200 men are on the ground. The
country, however, can only be worked for a fortnight
after the rains.
* * * *
Croydon cyanide works, closed at end of last
month after 17 months’ work, treated in that time 38,183
tons tailings for 36,1420 z. bullion (t'35,620) ; average yield
per ton, 18dwt. 22gr. ; average value, 18s. 4fd. From the
proceeds, the works were paid for (£7000), and £13,447
declared in divs. The latter is equal to 400 per cent, on
the capital of the co. Royalty to patentees, £2879 ; cost
of treatment averaged 7s. 6d. per ton.
* » * *
Charters Towers calls for Feb. (as per Bright’s
Circular), £8074 ; div., £30,400. The encouraging
features of the month were the splendid crushing of
1300 oz. from 372 tons at the Victoria and Queen, the con-
tinued promise of the Queen Cross and Papuan mines, the
striking of a reef in the sink at Mills United, and the cer-
tainty of a very big out-turn from the Day Dawn Block
and Wyndham. 126 leases are held, totalling 2344 acres,
and about 4400 men in all are at work. Whereas in ’94
there were 48 companies with 5,471,104 shares and a
nominal capital of £4,260,200, and a subscribed capital of
£3,381,099 18s. 2d., in ’95 the figures were 62 companies
with 6,912,144 shares, nominal capital £4,658,150, and sub-
scribed £3,994,226 2s. 9d. The marked decrease in values
towards the close of ’95 is attributed to the large exodus
of miners to West Australia, who realised their stocks,
regardless of sacrifice, to enable'them to get away. Band
of Hope, 410 tons for 2940 z. Brilliant and St. George,
1375 tons for 21490 z.; usual Is. div. of £7200. The last
six months this mine has made a profit of £40,000 and
paid £34,500 in divs., balance going in machinery. The
Brilliant, all right in the sink, in Feb. turned out 2497
tons for 26310 z., and paid £6500 divs. Brilliant Block
yields still poor, though there is an improvement in
general prospects. Stone crushed in Feb., 1598 tons for
884 oz. Day Dawn Block and Wyndham looks exceedingly
well. Feb. crushing, 2014 tons for 21690 z. ; div., 6d.
(12,500). Mills United—A good reef met in the sink has
sent shares up. Crushings, 987 tons, 7670 z. Victoria and
Queen shows great improvement: 372 tons crushed for
1300 oz.; div. is., equal to £2400.
* < * * *
Time for a word of caution to the public re Mt.
Lvell. These shares have gone from 10s. to £6. The
developments are, in a way, not greater at £6 than when
they were at 10s.—in fact, when they were less than a
fourth the present price the mine was working a rich ore-
shoot which put it on its financial legs, and with-
out which heaven only knows what would have become of
it. That rich vein has been worked out, and to-day
the future of the mine rests on a n :w and economical
method of working one of the lowest-grade mines in the
world. Its great ore-body contains from two to three per
cent, of copper, a few oz.—not more than six—of silver,
and about 2dwt. gold. It will be seen that the success of
the mine rests with the metallurgist, and not with the
mining-manager. It must have very cheap smelting and
a remarkably-clean slag to pay divs. and warrant the
prices the shares are likely to see. And, in the event of
pj'ritic smelting not being so cheap after all or the slag so
clean, who are likely to know this first? That great,
silly animal, the public, or those most directly concerned
in the working of this mine ? The public have rushed
these shares under the impression that smelting would
commence almost immediately, whereas the chances are
it will not start till the end of May.
* * » ,
Britishers have put up .£25,000 for a Tas. ex-
ploration co. to try five leases near the Golden Gate,
Mathinna. One of the apparent bargains is the old City
of Hobart—a 1100,000 gold-yielder years ago. -Then the
stuff was just picked out, and the mine never properly
prospected.
* * * *
The Western Silver Co., Tas., has declared a 9d.
div. Total divs. to date, 21s. 9d. per share, or £65,250.
* * * *
The Western is now playing second fiddle to the
Silver Queen in the Zeehan (Tas.) silver yield, the latter
topping the list last month. With a reduced output the
Western also reduces its monthly div. to 6d.
* * » *
Melb. Board of Works 4 p.c. debs, are in great
favor down south. The other day £9OOO worth went in
one line at £lO6 10s., and closed strong at £lO7 10s.


|Y| ELACHRINO
—, Cigarettes.
M. MELACHRINO & CO.,
CAIRO,
Largest Manufacturers of the
Best Egyptian Cigarettes.
Supplied to over 200 London Clubs and
Regimental Messes.
Hand Made. Absolutely Pure.
To be had from all Leading Tobacconists.
CaledonianLiqueur Whisky
\P'%
M*'um
/#/
m
jji.l
itllli
m
mm
Jl'lllF
/J
3ft
1
I'iiiiiiiinj'!
'III"! 1
r
L*»n
•
ihlii
I.U
WM.II
iflM
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World,
W BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
The Old Blend
Whisky
°f‘ K - e |T e HORSE
Cellar
WH 1 '
DIRECT fBOM DISTILLERS.
ALMUUff THE SAME. PURE. MCLIG
orntru WAIT
HTTWPPfSH
Edinbu^h
POLITICAL
POINTS
The earth is the Lord’s, and the fulness
thereof, but Britannia still rules the waves.
Q. ex-Lands-Minister Barlow is tipped for
the vacant Q. N. Bank managership and a seat in
the Leg. Council. Fretium cum dig. —which may
be freely translated as bonus-cum-bingey.
One of the “ bosses ” of the Colonial Office
said, the other day, that it was thought that Gov.
Brassey was “ playing too much to the gallery,”
and, like the Yawning Baron, making himself too
cheap.
Suggested that impecunious would -be
barristers should apply for admission in forma
pauperis. Who will try ? In Victoria, for
instance, if successful, it would mean admission
without the heavy fee, and a splendid advt.
Stated that during the three years the
N.S.W. Labor Bureau has been in existence as
much as <£10,500 has been “ refunded ” by men
for rail passes granted to them. Now, the alleged
“ refund ” was carefully stopped out of the first
wages earned.
The Conference of Premiers lately held in
Sydney decided unanimously to have nothing to
do with the famous Anglo-Jap. treaty —to neither
touch, taste, nor handle it, and to swear off en-
tirely. So Australia won’t be sold to the brown
monkey-men just yet.
The N.S.W. Civil Service Board fixes the
office hours 9 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 9to
noon. The Board will doubtless retrench those
custodians of the time-book who receive from .£4OO
to £7OO per annum for doing scarcely anything but
attend to that function.
Allan Cameron, Mayor of Mudgee, says
Lyne told him confidentially tha,t he (Lyne) is a
Fairtrader, not a rabid Protectionist. A Fair-
trader is not a Protectionist, rabid or otherwise ;
he is a Fairtrader simply. Therefore, if Cameron
is telling the truth, there is again room at the
top.
Rumored that G. Republican Dibbs will
shortly resign his savings - bank trusteeship
(<£1350 a year) and take again to the political
stump. Let Dibbs lay to his book, and take warn-
ing in time by the awful example of Parkes.
Dibbs, personally, is a fine fellow, but as a politi-
cal leader not worth shucks.
N.S.W. ex-Treasurer M‘Millan at Rand-
wick : “If they looked at the constitution of the
Leg. Assembly they would find that for the last
nine or ten years they had, year after year, been
sifting out all those elements which represented,
or were typical of the intelligence, wealth, thrift,
and industry of the province.”
The stupidity of the S.A. National Ass.
in making abolition of payment of members a
plank in its election programme daily becomes
more manifest. The Ass. candidate wants his
TURNING THE TABLES OR, THE BENCH.
MR. JACOBUS RYLEY, J.P. (arrested this morning for drunkenness and
disorderly conduct, gravely, to the Bench) : “ Your conducksh
most reprehensible (hie). Thish kinder thing mush be pu’ down.
Fine you both (hic) thir’y shil’n’s, 'r fifty-six hoursh.”
<£2oo p.a. quite as badly as his democratic brother;
hence the difficulty in securing the right Ass.
candidate for each constituency.
In the Sixties, N.S.W. magistrates who
signed their names with a x were known as
“ Windmill Magistrates,” on account of the sup-
posed resemblance of their signatures to the sails
of a wind-mill. How many of the present 800
applicants for the positions of Js.P. would, if
appointed, be windmill magistrates ?
Price Williams’s alarmist report about the
alleged deterioration of the Melbourne-Albury
railway has moved the Vic. railway managers to
present a report. In it they announce that, des-
pite the reduction in expenses, they have laid
down in two years 116 miles of new rails and
271,000 new sleepers, which was about Speight s
average for four years, and they indirectly imply
that the alleged British expert is—unreliable.
Melbourne
Age is of
opinion that
Victoria should
go on with rail-
way construc-
tion, but only
in cases where
the new lines
can be relied
upon to pay 4
per cent, o n
their cost over
and above
working ex-
penses, so as to
cover interest
on the borrow-
ed money. Un-
luckily, there
are no such rail-
ways in sight
anywhere. The
problem against
which these
provinces have
brought up with
a crash is—how,
without adding
to the defici-
ency, to con-
struct railways
which only
yield or 2
per cent, o n
their cost —and
that can’t be
done by bor-
rowing money
even at 3 per
cent, to build
them with. The
necessity of
levying a spe-
cial tax, or set-
ting aside a
fixed sum annu-
ally for railway
construction
purposes, must come home to Australia s easy-
going legislators some day or other.
A local Q. Labor-party committee the
other day found it necessary to despatch this tele-
gram to the Central Executive : Gan man
living in open adultery another man’s wife run tor
election in Labor interest ? ” The reply was dis-
creet “ Central Executive cannot interfere ;
leave it good sense local organisation.”
Gulgong (N.S.W.) is a fine specimen of
rural apathy. On the occasion of the last nomina-
tion day for Gulgong Municipal Council the only
person to put in an appearance was the returmng-
officer, and no nominations were received for the
vacant seats. So for the time being municipal
government at Gulgong has died a natural death.
Some of the Seddon Government’s pro-
posals for next session—if it survives the election—
are the further acquisition of land near large tow™ B
for workmen’s villages, an enlargement of the
State Loan Department, exclusion of Asiatics and
other low-grade aliens, State fire-insurance, the
abolition of distraint for rent, the abolition of
legalised usury, and the extension of the local-
option principle to clubs, which somehow, have
been exempt until now. The Ass party s pro-
gramme consists mostly of vague maundermgs
about “ good government and the like, so Seddon
ought to win in a canter.
The new Maoriland
State-school song-book
smacks heartily of the
soil. Previous song-books
contained many inappo-
site allusions to “ smiling
May,” “the lovely month
of June,” “Father Christ-
mas with his snowy
mantle,’’and soon. These
are now struck out,
while some local verses
have been set to musio
and included.
A N.S.W. country-
pressman to The Bulle-
tin : “We hear much
about Japanese boots just
now, but so far Japanese
type and printing
machinery are unknown
quantities. Yet already
a few decent orders for
type have left Sydney
for Japan. When I was
in Sydney at Xmas, I
saw samples of Japanese
type, equal, if not
superior, to the best
English, and at about
half the price. The
Japanese price for a com-
plete newspaper office
as compared with Eng-
lish prices opened my
eyes.”
In Victoria, so for, eleven men Premier
Turner Minister Peacock, Ms. L. A. Deakm,
Trenwith, and Kirton, Ms.L.C. Sargood, Fitz-
gerald, and Fraser, Dr. Quick, Purves, the bully-
jn g barrister, and Wrixon—have announced them-
sejves as candidates for the Federal Convention
w hi c h is to build a constitution for the Common-
wealth. Best, Murray Smith, and MTntyre are
a j so expected to compete. If these are all, there
w pj be fourteen men after ten seats, which will
j us t leave room for the people to throw out four
reliable Tory bigots—Fitzgerald, Fraser, Furves
and the dreadful Sargood. No constitution which
Sargood could approve of would be worth having,
THE HOST ADVANCING.
“ The rabbit pest has been quite subdued.” — MARLBORUGH TIMES, M.L.
VICTORIAN RABBIT : “ They want you and me over there, my dear.”
Dear Bulletin,— Re Melb. University’s
“ unwillingness to be made the tool of class. ’’ How
is it that this impartial, State-supported institution
(vide J.S.R.) shelters a whole brood of theological
colleges and a Masonic Lodge ? The colleges are
built on the University Reserve, and the Masonic
Lodge spreads itself in the official “ calendar.”—
Demos.
The Queensland Labor party has made its
first bad mistake in the management of the general
LAW ON WHEELS
election, and one possible seat is lost already. At
Herbert it put up Brownlee to oppose Speaker
Cowley, but, as it didn’t put his full Christian
name on the nomination-paper, the document was
rejected as informal, and Cowley got in without a
contest.
Among the N.S.W. Js.P. there are 17
publicans. Colonial Secretary Brunker says “it
is not a proper thing to appoint publicans justices
of the peace, but he does not know what should be
done m regard to those who become publicans
after their appointment to the list of honorary
magistrates.” The answer is easy —either they
should cease to be publicans or they should cease
to be Js.P.
They do things in an off-hand fashion in
Westralia. Railway Minister Venn recently
alleged that the rest of the Government was re-
sponsible, as well as himself, for the unutterable
muddle of the railway department—which is pro-
bably true, for everything is a joint and several
muddle in Westralia. Whereupon Premier
Forest ordered Gov. Smith to heave Venn out of
the Ministry, and a brief notice in the Gazette
reports that Venn is heaved out accordingly.
Simply grabbed by the collar and the coat-tail and
rushed down the front steps, so to speak.
“Hairy” Hoolan, who walks-over Burke
(Q.) electorate, flatly declined to sign the Labor-
platform, though at one time he led the Labor-
party, and, later, resigned to give leader Tom
Glassey a seat. If the wild-man can tone down
his fantastic humor and induce people to take him
seriously, he has brains enough and gab enough to
be a second edition of Johnny Macrossan.
S/dney Dairy Telegraph proves, in a
leading article, tuat N.S.W. won’t be swamped
with Japanese boots under Free-raid in ’96 and
succeeding years, because in ’95, under Protection,
the imports from that country were under ,£28,000
worth. In other words, a man won’t go over a
precipice when he jumps over in ’96 because he
didn’t go over when lie refused to jump over in ’95.
The Belgian Government is constructing a
fleet of cargo-boats to ply in the service of the
State between (Xstend and the Thames. The idea
is to get that trade away from the British ship-
owners, and, at the same time, to encourage the
export of Belgian products. British owners are
in a fujik over this new development of State
Socialism, the possibilities of which no one yet
really knows.
Down by Drouin (Gippsland, Yic.) the local
authorities have discovered a costly bridge
which some humorist built over the railway in the
boom days. There is no road near it on either
side; it leads nowhere, and the bush has almost
grown over it. The department has presented it
to the local authorities, who are going to shift it
somewhere where it will be of vise, but how it got
to be where it is remains a mystery.
Attorney-General Byrnes (Q.) is of opinion
that the Kanaka province shouldn’t federate just
yet because there are railway and tariff diffi-
culties in the way. At what date does Byrnes
imagine that there won’t be railway and tariff and
any number of other difficulties in the way —about
the year 396,275,111,163 A.D. perhaps? The man
who wants to wait till all the difficulties are out of
the way has a long contract before him.
Gov. M ‘Gregor’s New Guinea report looks
almost rosy. The exports for last year amounted
to £16,215 —comprising, in order of importance,
pearlshell, sandalwood, gold and pearl. Hand-
some wages (even for white men) are made
by natives engaged in pearlshelling. Murder
is the most common offence in Papua, no less
than 78 homicides being recorded last year.
The Administration, however, is not of
opinion that an epidemic of private murder
can be cured by an . epidemic of judicial
murder, and, consequently, the death-sentence'
passed on 20 murderers was not carried out. The
ruling passion at present among the woolly Papuans
is a frantic desire to enlist in the constabulary.
Among other
departmental
anomalies now
being under-
mined by N.S.
Wales Civil Ser-
vice Commis-
sioners is one
that granted
heavy overtime
pay to some
Govt, employes
whilst others
were required to
do much night
labor without
additional remu-
neration. For
three months
past Treasury
(work seldom
slackens at the
paying-out
branch) and
Mines clerks
have been en-
gaged almost
every evening at
their respective
offices. In the
former depart-
ment 2s, per
hour was paid in
most instances
for overtime, but
Mines officials
worked without
extra allowance,
save “tea-
money ” in case
their labors ex-
tended until 9
p. m.
Premier Forrest’s dismissal from the W.A.
Ministry of Minister Venn is a reminder of what
always is possible, but rarely occurs. So far, such
a dismissal has occurred but once in N.S. Wales.
Minister William Miles said it occurred to himself
in Queensland, but the Premier of the day con-
tended it was not a dismissal, it was only the ex-
pression of a mild incompatibility. “Billy”
wrote back, however, “You dismissed me. I take
it as such, and I accept it as such, and you can go
to .”
There is a proposal afloat to keep a stock
of at least one year’s wheat-supply in England so
as to be independent of foreign supply in the
event of war. It is calculated that this amounts
to at least 25 million quarters, to carry which
would require 1,000,000 railway-waggons and 40,000
engines. A nice mess England would be in after
a few weeks should war break out with Russia
and the States, from whence comes most of
Britain’s corn-supply. The thought of this should
be sufficient to damp the ardour of the hottest
jingo. ! *i
•Li
Premier Nelson (Q.) announces that he
will “be prepared to give favorable consideration
to any scheme for advancing cheap money to
farmers, the principles of which might command
themselves to his judgment, and which are con-
sistent with sound principles of political economy. ”
As he doesn’t say what his judgment is, or what
are his particular principles of political economy,
and as he doesn’t promise to formulate a scheme—
only to be prepared to consider it if it happens to
arrive, and he doesn’t even promise to consider it
—only to be “ prepared ” to do so, and as he doesn’t
undertake to do anything with the scheme after it
is considered even if it does commend itself to his
judgment, this is about the most inconclusive
shuffle ever heard of.


||gh.[3()UßNl; HOSPITAL.
Ikv Tull inside. .
Mr James Williamson’s evidence was
taken first at the City iiauk inquiry
tills morning. Mr Johnston commenced
by asking Mr Willtatnson to exi>lain
wfiiat he did as a batik director. “All
I could.” was the answer.'
IS DANCING SINFUL ?
He considered that modern
■dancing was “dancing before the devil.”
'The giddy, frivolous music, talk, and jesting
4 indulged in at most dances was not fit lor
'Christians’ ears./ i*
f£l-T?Jf > a) / fr)oncl<
— Ttz-eadfui, ' A
7sn'f~it 7n f /fiend .
//urn!
2)u/jf'/ire ?ne.
a C'hu./-cfi
/>/c n/c . 1 f
NO ROOM IN THE HOSPITAL
THE SICK DIE IN THE STREETS.
The crowded state of the Melbourne
Hospital, due to the excessive number of
coses of typhoid fever, has resulted in the
turning away from the doors of the institution
of many people who were unable to obtain
proper treatment elsewhere.
-t.^
• n'* 1
- \l C ,s e '
t^;V
ofi‘ 5S}
'* .
,ni V e r
; > *
e
r MONEY"
To-^Toreiqn
MISSIONS I
Wan ted/ /
. lh' b ‘ F tfcro*^ 1
\ 7*QQR * Sl{
\ neir Cl *‘ 7 "
/t-oxA^/es.
~£ZWi%%2&rZ%ZZ' Z^AZZt r 7^^
decadal,an oJ C /, W j A 0 J„ e J/<%£?*» ***’*'****€.
MELBOURNIAN.


t S' 1
... fn his town of Denlliquin there were
20 hotels to a population of 2000, and it was
not whisky that was ruining the people, but
Row’s embrocation and painkiller, sold di-
luted with water. Shearers and bush workers,
overcome with the loneliness and miseries ..f
their existence, came into town when the f .cl-
ing < ' depression became so strong that
could not bear it', and were driven to dro> a
their miseries by knocking down their cheqv .
It was not the drink that was doing them the
harm. hut the hbcucsed liouo r
A tj/ffy fa y ITr
•
/ .At Denlliquin he kept open
house for young men, and his house, he was-
giad. t/> say, was always full. (Applause.) He
*>< y <r ) ?
Ho drgnk that drop or a!©, ana
before he got the street nis tongue
clove to the roof of his mouth —(laughter)—
and he knew he had been poisoned. (Ap-
plause.)
jls WorOj fl’Orr^
ne once enuereo a certain hotels ?lauglit&r|
—kept by a person who professed to be a
(Presbyterian. (Laughter.) took a glass
of ale. The glass was what fs called a ''•pub-
lican’s glass.” thick afc the bottom 'like a
publican's head—(roars of laughter)—and with
nothing in it—like--’* publican’s head. (Oon ;
vulsions.)
He would merely say that the New South
Wales legislature was certainly not. a body
to which he would go with a scheme to put
down drunkenness. (Laughter.'
s. v
IV 0 T./ C E
% N o TEP[ m/
I be SPRV'FD
IjFTER |0 P-li-
The Rev. Dr.. Kinross .....Abolish bar-
maids, and close hotels at 10 p.ni. Ap-
plause.)
Of'
jC Of- (
PRESBYTERIANISM V. PAIN-KILLER-NOTES OK TIIE LATE PRESBYTERIAN ASSEMBLY AT SYDNEY.


'TwrVSVSSW'^
.'V'
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. «d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
(jralis.
Frecl Hagen
(Late D. A. Vii din & Ca),
74 ELIZA 1 Kill STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
LOMBARDIA,
THE GREAT PILE SPECIFIC
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
Before trying other so-called Remedies you
should ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a
Pot of Lombardia, and take no other. Only one
Trial is asked.
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
F. MoDONALD, Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE CREATED
by the
LIVERPOOL AND LONDON
AND GLOBE,
“THE GREAT FIRE and LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of the WORLD,”
under which
ONLY HALF THE AMOUNT OF ORDINARY
PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the ASSURED
DURING THE FIRST FIVE YEARS,
whilst full aniount of policy will be payable in the event
of death after payment of first annual premium.
Example—To secure £lOO at Death.
THESE TERMS are the MOST REASONABLE yet sub-
mitted by any Life Assurance Company.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Rates-
Head Office for Australasia, 62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres
throughout the colonies and great European and Ameri-
can centres, at any of which Premiums may be made
payable or Claims in the event of death of the assured.
Total Assets to 1894 .. .. £9,374,598 sterling
Total Claims Paid .. .. 31,615,692 sterling
Total Nett Claims paid in Australasia 2,000,496 sterling
Total Annual Income .. .. 2,408,893 sterling
Head Office fob Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Resident Secretary, M. W. S. CLARKE.
Personal Items.
Gov. Brassey, in his white helmet, looks
like a man who has made up his mind to retire
from the world —head-first.
“Augustus Ctesar, a rag-picker, was
stabbed four times while investigating the con-
tents of an ash-barrel.” —Sydney news item.
N.S.W. Minister Gould’s Cobar copper-
interests are now turning him in some thousands
annually, with every prospect of permanency.
It was the mother of Lady Mary Fitzroy
(killed in Parramatta Domain years ago) who gave
the historical ball at Brussels on the evening before
Waterloo.
“ Sergeant Waters,” to whom Vic. police-
court warrants, &c., are addressed, is, it seems, a
mythical personage, the bunyip or John Doe of
legal Victoria.
Photo, by Elliott & Fry, London.
H. B. MARRIOTT WATSON.
‘‘ I have made more money than I can
ever spend in this world. No client has ever lost,
or ever will lose, a penny by me. If any invest-
ment turns out bad I take it up myself. ”—Mat-
thew Davies in 1886.
Miss Scott, of Melb., is the first English-
woman to pass the examination for licensed legal-
shorthand-writers. She was the only lady who
presented herself at the recent Melb. exam., and
is said to have quite eclipsed all male competitors.
“Can you believe it?” exclaims The
Bulletin’s London correspondent ; “ Duncan
Gillies is a candidate for the Junior United Ser-
vice Club ! Que diable allait il, &c. ? And what,
furthermore, is his qualification ? Have you ever
known the mild-mannered Duncan as a fire-eater
in any form? We shall next hear of Sir Saul
Samuel as a member of ‘ the Rag.’ ”
Dear Bulle-
tin, “ Only
two of the little
group who were
present when
Gov. Hind-
marsh declared
S.A. a British
province sur-
vive.” Wrong.
Edward Roset,
of Hartwood
Station, N.S.
Wales, was also
present. He
was aboard the
barque Tam o’
Shanter (Capt.
W h i t e m an
Freeman) which
arrived at Ne-
pean Bay, Kan-
garoo Island, in
1836. The Tam
o’ Shanter left
Portsmouth in
company with
the ship Buf-
alo, carrying
Captain fiind-
marsh. A storm
arose in the
Channel, and
the Buffalo put
back, but the
Tam o’ Shanter,
d isregarding
signals, sailed
on and reached
Kangaroo Is-
land a fortnight
ahead of the
Buffalo. Mr.
Roset well re-
members Buck
and Whalley,
who had lived
on Kangaroo
Island for some
years before the
landing of Capt.
Hindmarsh. He
has had a stir-
ring career
since, having
spent five years
whalingoff Tas-
man i a, and
landed at For.
Philip with Bat
man on his
second trip.
When he came
to N.S.W. there
was hardly a
fence between
the Darling and
Lachlan. He is still hale and hearty.—R.F.
Rev. James Ballantyne, who died in Melb.
last week, was, as a lad, a favorite of Walter
Scott’s. The Ballantyne family lived close to
Abbotsford, and the Rev. James’s father, who
died fifteen years ago at the age of 101, was an
intimate friend of Scott and of his son-in-law,
Lockhart.
Professor Loisette, the noted memory-
teacher, is dead. “ Though lost to sight, to
memory dear,” is hackneyed, but it would appear
fresh on his tomb.
Maxwell comes unmistakeably to the fore
as a Melb. barrister, over the Lormer inquiry.
Like Shiels and Deakin, he has long worked under
the slur of being a clever academic man, unfitted
for practical tussles, but now enters the arena as a
fighter.
N.S.W. Premier Reid found time the other
day to appear for defendant in a District Court
case—resuming his practice at the point he left it
off. G.H.R. is, perhaps, preparing for the wrath
that is to come. In many respects he has prac-
tically “ burnt his boats.”
Percy Spence, writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, will be represented at the
Dudley Gallery show by an important picture.
He has one also on view at Graves’s, in Pall Mall.
The latter, is a new treatment of Oberon and
Titania, and those who have seen it admire it
much.
Half-a-dozen Queensland politicians, of
mixed colors and a rather vague programme, en-
deavored to draw John Douglas from his Thursday
Island asylum for another foray on political place
and pay. But the one-time Premier, and associate
in N.S.W. House of Dailey and Deniehy, prefers
the shelf to being handled by the political cooks
and butlers of present factions.
The first sitting of the Supreme Court held
at Norfolk Island was presided over by Mr. Justice
Dowling, father of ex-District Court Judge Dow-
ling. The most noteworthy feature of the whole
affair was that, at the Judge’s suggestion, the
Crown found the fees to enable an attorney to go
to the Island to defend the accused. The judicial
career of the Judge’s son also was characterised by
a merciful consideration for accused persons.
Puns on tombstones are not uncommon ;
but it is singular to find one on a mural tablet to
the memory of a distinguished man. On that
erected to the memory of Dr. Lang, in his famous
old Sydney church, reference is made to the
popular appreciation of his great services as
patriot and statesman, in evidence of which (so
runs the inscription) “his statue, placed in Wyn-
yard Square, Sydney, is standing testimony.”
The Single-taxer’s enthusiasm never seems
to wane. It is averred that at Sydney Jepheott’s
wedding in Melb., the other day, a brother Single-
taxer wished to move as an amendment to the
health of the bride and bridegroom “that no
marriage can be satisfactory until there is a tax
on land-values. ” Another of the same kidney
wrote an article for a suburban paper on com-
pulsory vaccination, and wound up by recom-
mending the Single-tax as the best thing to meet
the difficulty.
The revelations made this week re the
management of the City of Melbourne Bank give
strange color to the rumors current when the late
general manager, Colin Longmuir, died at sea, to
the effect that he really committed suicide. He left
Melbourne for London, apparently in good health,
and died between Australia and Ceylon. He was
the least banker-like of Melb. bankers; always
AN ILLUSTRATED CHESTNUT.
NEW IMPORTATION (amateur shepherd, who has been entrusted with 200 rams and
told not to let them “box,” returns to station with his clothes torn and his
hands and face bruised) : “I couldn’t stop the rams from boxing, sir. I
tried my best, but they kept bumping and boxing each other like mad
pugilists.”
wore a sporting loud check suit and a little hard
bowler hat, and was rarely to be seen in sober,
orthodox black.
When Mr. J. R. Hill, one of the oldest
and best-known Sydney directors of the A.M.P.
Society and a former Chairman of the Board, pre-
sented himself to vote at a recent ballot of the
Society, the clerk enquired his name. Don t
you know who I am!” “No, «ir.»
»i'°' STfte room°;
“Do you know me?” “No, sir.” Then Mr.
Hill gave his name and got his voting papers.
W i f e - c e menter
Deeming is said to have
left an illegitimate son
at Albany (W.A.).
Dear Bulletin, —
Re barrister Fellows and
the “undignified” keg
of beer, Fellows, even as
a judge, had a holy hor-
ror of anything like
“frill.” fie wore the
worst-fitting clothes in
Melbourne, apparently
put on with a pitchfork,
and was continually be-
ing bailed-up in the
street by dead-beats, to
whose tales he invariably
listened as patiently and
courteously as if they
had been arrayed in pur-
ple and fine linen. He
was nearly as certain,
too, to “ crush ” for
something as was George
Higinbotham, though
his surly face and gruff
accents made him out-
wardly the antithesis of
the suavely benevolent
George.—J us.
0. H. James, the
big Melb. landboomer,
is clever with the gloves
and proud of the fact.
A tall, thin man with an
18in. beard, James is the
very antithesis of the
pug—which has here and
there caused a would-be
humorist to regret his
ill-timed levity. About
three years ago he was in
Sydney, and entering
the Australia Hotel lift
one evening found a fat
and beery man who, on
noticing James, reached
across and gently pulled
his beard, remarking :
“ Sonny, yer want yer
hair cut.” This was too
much for the Melbourne-
ite. “ You drunker
blackguard,” he said.
“ I’ve a good mind to
knock you down.” The
beery one, however, only
laughed, getting out at
the next floor. James
enquired who he was.
“ John L. Sullivan,”
replied the lift-boy.
Some one has discovered that the big sub-
scription raised for Parkes some years ago
amounted to =£B6oo, and was invested m 44 N.S.
Wales Bank shares, 225 City Bank shares, 5 Co-
lonial Sugar Co. debentures, with <£1560 placed
as a fixed deposit in 8.N.5.W., the whole bringing
in an annual return of «£538. It is alleged that
the value of the securities has now shrunk to
J 64360, the income from which amounts to .£270.
Vie. Chief-Secretary Peacock turned up
at “The Passport,” the other night, and laughed
his worst at every “ spicy ” point. This made the
cerulean passages so prominent as to be really in-
decent, and the players were obviously discon-
certed. Ward and Mrs. Brough repeatedly looked
at A.J. appealingly ; but it was no use, until
Brough came to his line, “ I wish you wouldn’t
laugh like that.” He uttered it with all his soul,
looking pleadingly the while at the cacchinating
Minister. Then the house roared loud and long,
and above it all arose pre-eminent the raucous,
strident “ haak, haak, hue, hue, hec hec, hec !!!!”
known as “ Peacock’s laugh.”
The departed Major-General Hutton was
“a perfect terror” for ceremony. It was his
custom at vice-regal receptions or public functions
to appear and be presented first as Commandant
of the “ colonial ” forces. Then he sped away in a
cab to the Hotel Australia and changed his cos-
tume, scampered back, and was again solemnly
presented in a new uniform as Aide-de-camp to
the Queen. This looks like a scene from the
“ Mikado,” or a lightning - change at Harry
Rickards’, but it’s a true bill. Luckily, the Gover-
nors during his time—Duff and Darley—were
grave men, with no sense of humor, or they would
have had some difficulty in preserving their gravity
on the Majah-General’s second entrance.
H. B. Marriott Watson (a notice of whose
new book, “ Galloping Dick,” appears on another
page) is an Australian of the Australians. His
great-grandmother was a native of Sydney ; his
grandmother and father hail from Tasmania ; and
he himself was born in Melbourne 31 years ago.
His father, the Rev. H. C. Marriott Watson, of
St. John’s, Christchurch, M.L. (now temporarily
located at Portland, Vic.), is himself an author
whose romances (notably “ The Decline and Fall
of the British Empire ”) have won favorable
notice. Young Watson seemed thus predestined
to a literary career, and his school-days at Christ-
church C. of E. Grammar School were marked by
brilliant successes. At M.L. University he took
a B.A. degree, and going subsequently to Eng-
land, he commenced contributing articles, chiefly
on Australian topics, to St. James’s Gazette,
then edited by Frederick Greenwood. After-
wards he wrote for the Scots (now the National)
Observer, and was presently, on the start-
ing of Black and White, offered the post
of sub-editor. When Astor purchased the
Pall Mall Gazette, Marriott Watson be-
came assistant editor, with Henry Oust
as editor-in-chief. This position he resigned at
the beginning of ’95, in order t® devote himself
more closely to literature. His first work was
“ Marahuna, a romance ” (Longmans): since the
issue of that story he has published “ Lady Faint
Heart,” a 3-vol. novel; “ The Web of the Spider,”
a M.L. story which has passed through several
editions ; “ Diogenes in London,” a collection of
short stories; and “At the First Corner.”
“ Galloping Dick,” his new book, appeared in
chapters in the New Review during last year.
Mr. Watson is married; and “Vespertilia and
Other Poems,” by Rosamund Marriott Watson, a
dainty book of graceful verse, was published in
’95. Marriott Watson’s style begs for the
epithets of the tea-catalogues—“ tender, rich,
full, strong, and flavory ”; his matter, though
not so distinguished, is a good, decent thought-
stuff, piquant, shot with humor, and here and
there woven into original patterns.
Haddon Chambers is sud
good many thousan s or, d to drama-
Barney Barnato m (jJfJifr,™ millionaire’s
tise ujgdemta th £ mugt be earning
lue. ineliiusiraii p y b writes a
three to four Australian to Tub Bcl-
SIT #h a/workSi a„c
his experiences on first imolsasuirant
if recounted, warn off many an ambitious asp
TWO BEERS .
LADY: “But if I give you sixpence, you promise me not to get tipsy.”
GENT: “ No, mum; cuddent git drunk under ’arf-a-crown !”
It is the general opinion that, if N.S.W.
Supreme Court gives judgment for Messrs.
Meagher and Dean on the demurred point just
argued, the Crown cannot appeal to the Privy
Council, because only a prisoner can do that in
criminal cases. The Bulletin advises the
appellants not to place too much reliance on that
idea. The Privy Council gave leave to the Crown
to appeal from the decision of the N.S.W. Supreme
Court both in Bertrand’s case and in Murphy’s.
It also allowed an appeal from the judgment of the
Court of Queen’s Bench, Quebec, in the case of
Reg. v. Coote.
Dr. Geikie, who told the other day about
having been poisoned by a glass of ale given him
by a Presbyterian hotelkeeper, and who, later on,
was voted <£loo a year by the Synod, plus £75 per
year from the congregation, did his first clerical
work in Canada, chiefly among Germans there.
Afterwards he transferred himself to Russia, and
became temporary minister at St. Petersburg.
Finally, he drifted to N.S. Wales, and settled
down in Bathurst. He is an author of some repute
on ecclesiastical topics, is corresponding member
of several societies, and possesses the right of at-
taching numerous letters to his name.
While on circuit once, the present N.S. W.
Attorney-General Want, Q.C., defended a man
charged with turkey-stealing. The Crown could
not produce the turkeys, and Mr. Want had the
good luck to save his client. The barrister left
for home same night by train, and on his arrival
at Sydney station was going off with his luggage,
when a porter came up —“ What about the poultry
in the brake-van, sir?” “ Poultry! what poultry?”
asked Jack. “There is a crate of turkeys ad-
dressed to you, sir.” “Let’s see them ; ” and off
the Q.C. went to the brake. There, sure enough,
was a crate of turkeys plainly addressed to him.
“ Oh, send ’em out to me,” said J.W. He found
out (after he had eaten them) that they were the
stolen birds, a present from his grateful client.


■/- :
Famous Cyclists and a Famous
Cycle.
The mighty Zimmerman, America’s Speed King,
came all the way from America to advertise and
place upon the Australian market his own parti-
cular brand of cycle. He came with a great
flourish of trumpets and with a triplet “to break
Australian records.” He came, he saw, he teas
conquered— by the Humber. Jack Parsons, then
an of the Austral Cycle Agency, came
home in front of Zimmerman, whilst the Adelaide
populace shook the firmament with thunders of
applause. Zimmerman and Walford, Zimmer-
man’s manager, gave Parsons a
handsome sum down and a good
salary to forsake the Humber and
his old firm. Parsons accepted the
good thing as any other natural
human being would.
* * *
But it was not Parsons that was
in the way of Zimmerman’s success ;
it was the Humber. Who, among
the great Melbourne crowd, will
forget the night when Pither, on
his Humber, challenged Zimmer-
man, and the pair raced home so
fast that no one could see their legs
distinctly. And the Humber won
again. And once more the rider
was an employe of the Austral
Cycle Agency. Walker, riding
another of the Austral Cycle
Agency’s machines, also downed
the flying Zimmerman. Can it be
said that the machine played no
part in these historic victories ?
Compare the three riders—Zim’s
victors ! Parsons rather short, com-
pact, quite muscular ; Walker,
taller and sinewy; Pither, long-
legged and gaunt. When three
such different types of men pedal
home on the one brand of machine
ahead of Zimmerman, it is only
logical to conclude that the excel-
lence of the machine was largely
responsible. This is certain, at
any rate: no other machines except
those of the Austral Cycle Agency
showed Zimmerman the way home
in Australia, although every cyclist
here would have given two years of
his life, perhaps, to down the
world-famous American.
* * *
At present, in Australia, there
are only three men who are placed
on scratch by the N.S.W. Wheel-
men’s League—Martin, the Yankee;
Harris, the Englishman ; Porta, the
Italian. The League calls these
respectively “The Great American
Wheelman,” “England’s Cham-
pion,” and “ The Conqueror of
Italy.” These men, though of dif-
ferent nationality, nevertheless each ride a Hum-
ber. What a tribute this is to the world-renowned
machine !
* * ♦ *
And since these Humber riders are thought so
much of by the N.S.W. League it is well to
explain the reason. Martin won the 100 miles
world’s championship on a Humber in ’9O ; he won
a six days’ go-as-you-please with 14GG4 miles in
New York. In ’95 he nipped 74 firsts in Italy.
He came to Australia some months back, and as
he still keeps to the Humber his career has been
remarkably successful. Last Saturday he started
six times, got four firsts and one second.
* • • *
Harris, who holds many English records from
£-mile to 5 miles, says: “I ride the Humber
Photo, by Barront.
PARSONS, on a Humber—Conqueror of Zimmerman.
because it is the best machine built. ” And this
opinion, coming l from a man familiar with the best
cycles of the world, is invaluable testimony.
Elarris has cycled in many countries and has
examined many brands of cycle, but he still keeps
hold of his Humber.
* 4 * *
Porta, the third man, whom the N.S.W League
advertises so largely as “ The Conqueror of Italy,
is another rider of the Humber. He lias very
many Italian successes, but he values his Humbei
cycle before them all. Last Saturday the Humber
came home first in three out of four finals. Can
any further evidence be required of the value of
the Humber as a racer ’ Well, here it is. Each
year, from ’B4 to ’B7 inclusive, Mr. C. W. Bennett,
so well known to racing cyclists, won the cham-
pionship of N.S. Wales on a Humber. And every
year, from ’B4 to ’96 inclusive, the N.S.W. cham-
pionship has been won on a Humber. When the
one brand of machine wins every year for thirteen
years, is it not conclusive proof of excellence?
Mr. W. L. Kerr, the famous N.S.W. amateur,
performed all his prodigies on a Humber.
* » * •
The Humber indeed has records of perfec-
tion besides which those of its would-be rivals
sink into insignificance. Berio, mounted on a
Humber weighing 241b5., and paced by a Humber
quad and quint, made world’s records from 2-3 of
Photo, by Giulio Rossi., Milano.
MARTIN, the Great American Champion, on his
Humber,
a mile up to five miles, and world’s record for a
mile in competition with lmin. 50 2-ssec. These
are short-distance achievements, but the world’s
24-hour records on road and path were made by
Shorland, Huret, and Riveire, each on a Humber.
Huret’s record was 515 miles; Riveire’s 528.
* * * *
The Humber does not sacrifice stiffness and
rigidity to lightness, for the simple reason that in
too-light machines speed is lost through lack of
rigidity. Berio’s Humber, with its world-records
of Rrnile to five miles, weighs 241 b. ; “ Bob ”
Lewis’s, Martin’s, 25b Humber and Co.
leave the weighing competition to firms of mush-
room growth. “ Any firm,” say Humber and Co.,
“ can build a racing machine of 181 b. and under,
but as we have a ’•eputation to lose, we are not
going to stoop to
the passing craze
for too light
wheels. It has
taken this firm
28 years to reach
the world’s re-
cognised standard
of ‘Humber
qualitl|. , ” And
while the Humber
is the racer of
racers, it is the
roadster of road-
sters, and the
pleasure cycle of
pleasure cycles.
» *
The Prince of
Wales, the Prin-
cess Maud of
Wales, and other
members of the
Royal Family;
the Empress of
Russia, the Grand
Duke Nicholas of
Russia, and others
of the Russian
royalty;theDukes
of Portland,
Sutherland, Aber-
corn and Athol,
and their respec-
tive Duchesses ;
are prominent
among those who
patronise the
paragon of wheels.
Truly the Humber
steed of steel can
be said to have
no rivals! The
Viceroy of India
and the Governor-
General of Canada
love their faithful
Humber, and the
Austral Cycle
Agency has lately
been specially ap-
pointed cycle sup-
plier to his Ex-
cellency Lord
Hampden. “I
ride the Hum-
ber,” said Lord
Hampden to the S.M. Herald and Daily Tele-
graph interviewers, “ because I think it is the
best.” And both his daughters ride a Humber.
» « * *
Among the great machine’s many successes is
the fact that quite a regiment of Australian
doctors are throwing physic to the dogs and daily
using the Humber. The Humber, like everything
good, costs a little money, but it is soundness and
reliability embodied ; it never breaks while its
rider is going at full speed and lets him or her
down with fatal results.
* * * *
Said Dr. Charles Ryan, the eminent Melbourne
surgeon: “I can only afford to ride the best; that
is why I ride the Humber; lam 10 years younger
since I took to cycling.”
» * * *
The Austral Cycle Agency has branches in
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Christchurch, Dunedin, and every important town
throughout Australasia; and the manager, Mr.
W. J. C. Elliott, has been a cyclist since ’79, and
has won many championships; he has edited a
prominent cycle journal, and made himself a cyc-
ling expert generally. It is worthy of note that
nearly all the crack Humber riders use the Dun-
lop tyre.*
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
The ninth Australian Eleven started for Hing-
land last week with no less than four “ emergency ” men
attached. This circumstance will, barring an epidemic of
accidents, deny to partisan criticism the time-honored
complaint that Australia is putting cripples or “ stale ”
players in the field—a popular excuse tor defeats in the
past. With 15 men of fairly level merit at his disposal
Capt. Trott should be able to select a healthy eleven for
each match. English teams visiting this country have
never exceeded 13 in number, and the two emergencies
have, in several instances, been below par. Also, Aus-
tralian weather and beer have been more prejudicial to
the visiting Britisher's’ form than English beer and
veather have told against Our Boys on tour. The
Australian abroad doesn t labor under harder climatic
conditions than he has experienced in his own country.
He gets less excuse for a burning thirst, and is able to wet
his whistle in the ordinary way with liquor less unwhole-
some than the stuff he leaves behind him.
The teams brought to Australia by Lord Shef-
field and Stoddart may be said to have fairly held their
own in “test” matches—no more and no less. Until an
Australian Eleven has fairly done likewise in a series of
test games at ’Ome, we must admit that a picked lot of
English players is slightly, yet distinctly, superior to the
strongest combination we can raise. Why not? The
rival powers are near blood-relations, thus far. Money
buys skill in athletic games, and, for every £1 spent in the
encouragement of cricket here, £5O is spent there. The
wonder to some people is that England, with about twelve
times the population of Australia, cannot whip the
“colonials” easily. The explanation of this apparent
mystery is simple, however. Cricket possibilities are more
limited than its proud professors would give outsiders to
understand. A best eleven of billiard-players could score
in the aggregate an immense number of points more than
a second-best eleven, if they contested in pairs upon
eleven tables for several days. Not so with cricketers.
In respect of dashing batsmen, all of them up
to a certain standard of play, England is probably three
times richer than Australia. Also, she has a considerable
number of clever fieldsmen to spare, as well as a larger
supply of second-class bowlers. In point of first-class
bowling Australia may often have the advantage, the
harder turf conditions tending to develop exceptional
skill and cunning. English professional bowlers are, for
the most part, machines, working with the frequent assis-
tance of wet wickets. The Australian amateurs study
how to do the best they can with the ball through a dry
season, expecting no help from the wicket. Wet
weather, being unfavoraole to the best batting
team, and favorable to the best bowlers, has
enabled two Australian Elevens to score a win in an
English test-match. In both cases Our Boys made very
few runs, but the Britishers did rather worse. Given
three chances in bad cricket weather, an Australian Eleven
would probably win the rubber, if not the whole set of
games, against All England in either country. On a bats-
man's wicket in England the local champions may be
expected to beat our fellows for some years to come.
Eventually there will be nothing to choose between them.
It is mainly a question of availaole population. Australia
has already greater resources in first-class cricket material
than any one English county, although there is less money
available for developing them. Therefore our picked teams
usually win the county matches. All the English counties
put together have larger resources than Australia, there-
fore our picked teams usually get beaten in test matches.
Newspaper excuses in the latter case are as absurd, not
to say disgusting, as newspaper “blow” in the former.
* » * *
The calm cheek of Giffen, proposing that Harry
should receive £5O as compensation ! Giffen has done
countless things which render him intolerable, but this
last out-Gitfens Giffen. The Aus. Eleven will return
either pleased with its successes, or defeated, cut-up,
dispirited, with Giffen on the brain.
* * * *
Harry asked for =£lso, and received it, with a
bonus of £lO because of his modest asking. The team
could have afforded to give him £2OO at least, for there
was no gainsaying that it was morally bound to take
Harry or compensate him to the full. And that full would
mean £5OO at least as share of the profits; £lOOO for
extension of life consequent on the tour; 1500 for
fun during the tour ; £5O to represent the value of drinks
refused on tour; £3OO compensation for pain of mind
resulting from being rejected after being selected ; £l5O
for loss of billet consequent on selection—in all, say, £2500.
* * * »
Turner, having absolutely bowled himself into a
place in the Australian team is, perhaps, just as well satis-
fied to rest on his laurels, and stay behind.
* * * ♦
The sole luggage of a certain member of the first
Aus. Eleven was an old gin-case, carefully tied up with
rope. When it was being lowered into the hold the men
were told to take great care of the precious cargo, and at
’Ome porters weren t allowed to touch it on any account.
The other members of the team eventually bought the
proprietor of the gin-case a second-hand portmanteau.
* * * *
Two Sydney youths saw Frank Iredale in the
members’ pavilion just after Hill had made his big score,
206 (not out). “ Nothing less than 207 from you, Frank,”
one of them shouted. “ Every one of them, old man,”
was the reply. Iredale was caught after making 186.
* * * *
* ‘ Bill ” Howell gets up at 5 o’clock in the morning
to practise bowling before his day’s work on the farm. On
dark mornings he uses a lighted candle as a mark, and
when the light is knocked out Howell calls out “ Wicket!”
* * * *
In a recent N.S.W. cricket-match between a
pick-up team from Mittagong and Wattle Hill and the
Wollondilly Pioneers, the combined team was disposed of
for 4 runs, there being no less than 9 “ duck-eggs ” in the
total. The innings only lasted 12min., Walter Riley, an
aboriginal, bagging the 10 wickets with 14 balls, at a cost
of 4 runs.
* * * *
“Affie” Jarvis, the S.A. wicket-keeper, is the
wildest man in Australia just now. It is alleged that
Aff., who when “on the job” is undoubtedly the premier
keeper of Australia, didn t make the recent tour with the
S.A. team because he was annoyed at his exclusion from
the Australian team. As" it happens, poor old Jarvie,
had he played and shown anything like true form, would
have been included vice Johns. These trips mean a good
deal to men like Jarvis, Darling and Gregory, who are in
the sports-depot business, and it is therefore easy to gauge
Jarvis’s feelings just now.
« * * »
A queer bowling record was made in a recent
cricket match between town and country members ot the
Oaklands (Vie.) Hunt Club. The town team, with four
wickets still in hand, required only four runs to win.
One man was put out for a “duck.” Then M'Dougall,
master of the hunt, was laid on to bowl for the first tune
during the “ town ” innings. Forlorn-hope M’Dougall
rose equal to the crisis. He bowled three balls and per-
formed the hat-trick right away. Then the rival teams
retired to drink the health of their amazed potentate.
Dear Bulletin, — After seeing a constellation of
Australian cricketers aboard the Cuzco last Saturday, and
listening to their dreary drip of cricket conversation with
kindred spirits, I shall leel compelled to tear my hair —
what’s lett of it —every time that a photo, and serious
notice of one of these national heroes appears in your
journal. A (rood game of cricket is a pleasant show, ami
the performance, as a whole, may be worth considering,
but close contact with individual players is ten times as
disillusioning as the contemplation of actors behind the
scenes. The stupidest actor is likely to be a brainy fellow
compared with a star batsman or bowler. And how their
photos, flatter these young men by concealing their want
of head development!— Auditor.
Harry Mttsgrove, going away per Cuzco in
charge of the Australian Eleven, seemed the sorriest man
on deck—a weary tragment of his old self. During the
voyage he will probably arrive at the best policy to adopt
with those 15 full-grown infants. Which is the policy of
quietly sitting upon them, individually and collectively.
* » * *
Sydney D.T., the other day, excused cricketer
Giffen on the ground that he had “ sciatica in the back.”
Almost as bad as toothache in the funny-bone.
* * * *
Jones, the S.A. bowler, was paralysed down the
right side years ago, with the result that all the hair on
that side went white. He presents a curiously spotted
appearance in the field.
» * * *
Dear Bulletin,—ln our (N. Queensland) mining
township the usual Saturday afternoon cricket-match is
the sole variation from the seven-days-a-week poker and
crib, so all sorts and conditions of men assemble to hunt
leather. Amongst the most prominent players is the
local “ trap,” a jovial sport. The decisive match of the
season had reached a critical stage, when it was found
that the “ mimber of the fuorce ” was absent on duty—the
arrest of a vag. At that precise moment, however, he
hove in sight with the vag. in tow. The honor and glory
of his crab were at stake. It was his turn to bat, but
what about the prisoner? “Chain him to a log,” was
suggested ; but the milder plan of leaving him in charge
of two stalwart cricketers was finally decided upon. Had
that vag attempted to escape, he would have had a bad
time. Being a man of sense and perspicacity, he grasped
the situation —filled his pipe, and uarracked tor the bobby.
That bobby won the match, and we have since unani-
mously recommended him for promotion.—L.
* * * *
The craze for sprinting has taken strong root in
Australia. The longest distance flat event at the V.A.T.C.
extra meeting on Saturday was the mile St. Kilda Cup,
won in a canter by Erl King. Caulfield’s off fixtures are
apparently for sprinters only. They pay best.
* * * *
The light-weighted Damien is said to be a Melb.
moral for Sydney Cup, but, like many other of the light-
weights, has nothing tangible to recommend h.m. He
is by Off Color.
* * * *
Noted by a cute observer that the majority of
promising jocks “ passed out ” in Sydney and Melb.
during the last few years have been, comparatively,
“ well in,” and had no occasion to accept stiff mounts, or
resort to hanky-panky.
* * * *
Disqualified jocks, with money, spend their
spare time readying up ponies for a flutter ader expiry of
“ time.” A Sydney rider lately celebrated his freedom by
winning two events, and badly knocking a bookie who
was instrumental in getting him disqualified.
* * * *
The offer to trot Fritz against anything in the
world for £2OOO may savor of blow, but it’s pretty certain
that the Van Cleve gelding will never meet his match
here. He might reduce his mile record to 2.7 on a
’Murkan track, but there are so many snags in the U.S.
that the Sydneyite would probably go under. The idea,
though, is to induce Yankee neddies out to Sydney or
Melb. ; £2OOO is a good stake.
* * * *
A wealthy American, a good judge, saw Mr.
C. J. Buckland’s Fritz trot on the private track at YVon-
bobbie Station, near Warren, N.S.W., and, recognising
that in Fritz Mr. Buckland probably had a world-beater,
made him an offer for the horse which would not be
credited if mentioned. It takes four figures to define
that offer, and the first figure was not a “ one.” Subse-
quently Mr. Buckland trotted Fritz at the Bourke show,
where an out-back squatter took a fancy to Kim. He was
not to be put off by being told that the horse was not for
sale, so he got Buckland in a corner and said : “ Look
here, I want a good buggy-horse, and he is just the style
I like. lam hot particular to a shilling or two when I
take a fancy—l’ll give you £25 for him.”
* * * *
Present indications lead to the belief that the
three-year-olds saddled next spring will be the best con-
tingent seen out for years. In addition to Newhaven,
Huret, Coil, Fucile, Tire, The Officer, and others,- (She St.
Alban’s string, including as it does Strathspey (half-
brother to Wallace), and Cydnus (out of Boz’s dam) have
a most dangerous look.
* * * »
The St. Alban’s team for Randwick may include
Bradford, T.rentham, Pilatus, and possibly Challenger.
Bradford is in both Doncaster and Sydney Cup, aud, if a
stayer, should prove formidable in the two miles. Last
year he split Cobbity and Atlas in the A.J.C. St. Leger,
and at Flemington, just previously, downed Tullamore
and Hova in the Farewell mile. He looks a promising
candidate.
* * * *
Quiver and Idolator will go to India, the dump-
ing-place for Australia’s good, bad, and indifferent horse-
flesh. Owners are finding it a regular gold-mine, especially
as buyers invariably cast breeding-considerations aside
and take geldings, if they’re good enough.
* * * *
The £7OO a-year saved by the V.A.T.C. on
stewards’ luncheons with a bit added has been generously
dumped on to stakes. So that owners will in future be par-
tially racing for the stewards’ bread and butter. A £2500
Caulfield Cup and £l3OO G. N. Steeple is calculated to
make the V.R.C. gasp painfully, to say nothing of the
new event, Caulfield Futurity Stakes, gross value £3OOO,
run in Jan., ’9B, which will be the autumn fixture of the
future, if it catches on. It’s framed on the English and
’Murkan sweep principle, and a horse may be started at a
cost of £4O.
* * * *
Now that Wallace has paid up for Sydney Cup,
a big parcel of money has gone on him in Sydney and
Melb. at sixes and fives to one. The colt’s 8.12 apparently
tempted Mr. Wilson to change his tnind about spelling
him. As Wallace carried 21b. less in Aus. Cup, a longer
distance, his present chance appears good. On the day
the probability is that he’ll start an odds-on favorite.
Havoc and Trentham also figure, but the trio mayn’t be
started. In fact, the 28 now left in will yet suffer con-
siderable reduction.
* * * *
Of the original 84 Doncaster Mile entrants but
31 remain, a great many good neddies falling out in addi-
tion to the customary trash. Albicore, Sadur, Dalmenv,
Hindoo, Trentham, Laura, Patrona and Te Whiti take the
eye at a casual glance. Valiant is first favorite after last
Saturday’s display, but it doesn’t take much to force a
horse in the market nowadays. Patron’s sister, Patrona,
should, if well, prove a hot order if there’s anything in
the “ blood will tell ” theory.
Speedy Erl King ended a rather long sequence
of failures by winning the V.A.T.C. St. Kilda Cup, last
Saturday. The King, having exhausted the faith of his
old admirers, started at 15 to 1, the second and third
horses going out at 12’s and 2U’s respectively. Altogether,
lkey Mo. had a glorious day’s sport.
(“ Sporting Notions ” continued on page 20.)
PICKING AND CHOOSING.
How to pick a cricket-team :
Take about a dozen men,
Straightway reconstruct the scheme,
Just reduce the lot to ten.
Add, subtract, and multiply,
Then throw in another try :
Let the public have a say,
Throw a man or two away.
Multiply, and then divide,
Guided by the crowd outside ;
Then, if that lot will not do,
Add another man or two.
That you’ll find the proper scheme
How to pick a cricket-team.
ZEF.
TRULY AUSTRALIAN.
Most typical the cricket-team
By Musgrove H. conducted
Of our dear land abroad will seem
For it’s been reconstructed.


O ice more Melb. W.C.T.U. is being
pooled for sweating. This combination of snuffle
and cold-tea is alleged to work its waitresses 80
hours a week at a wage of 7s. 6d. The only
“ relaxation " permitted is a weekly half-holiday,
and a chance to go to church on Sunday.
Quite half-a-dozen first-rate Melb. hotels
are coining money on the 3d. lunch racket.
Entree, fish or meat, with bread and two vegetables,
well served at tables by spruce waitresses, draw
thousands of men who formerly never dreamt of
lunching at under a shilling.
Daily Telegraph (Sydney) advt.
f\ IRL (19), can get Land. &c., wants husband,
VJ farmer preferred. Write Protestant, Daily
Teleoraph office.
Go on the land, young man !
To avoid a black eye make a strong infusion
of cayenne pepper and gum in equal parts, adding
a few drops cf glycerine. Paint the bruised part
and let the coating dry on, repeating till three
coatings are on. The same is good for any bruise,
likewise for stiff neck.
|- ROSSAKdW
1 e*tr.a -pi><e \ \ 1
(t
0°
CIGA-RS
/V\lkD ANJ?
AGRA M T /R
Tp-v them!*
r 7,
A
C
C ©?«.R»
°m
7.\
"> j
!€
Sx
Cv
! o
i)
R
r
V ( P
r'ml -c;
2T\
7
Si/. M
%
£
***N
<3v> ,v
/;» r
a
v n
gR
A
<§g
*0
m
/
C-VZ^
7/
%
X
W/
limn
HWr
%
“The Keystone of Australian Federation
The Premiers have agreed that FROSSARD'S CAVOUR CIGARS (in packets of 8 for Is.) are to remain the national smoke of Australia
jyLsLJTIs: Foy’s Hosiery : “ a.s Hlacls els tlie Devil.”
Children’s Hose .
“ OUR BOYS ” 1-1 Ribbed Cashmere, 10-fold knees—
Sizes : 2345 6
Prices : 7d. Bd. 9d. lOd. lid.
“ RELIABLE ” Fancy-ribbed Cashmere (for girls), same
size and price as “Our Boys.”
“ FLORRIE ” Plain Cashmere Hose, full fashioned—
Sizes : 2 3 4 5 6
Prices : Bd. 9>d. lid. Is. Old. is. 2d.
“ BONNIE SPEC,” 10-fold knees, 6-fold ankles—
Sizes : 1 2 3 4 5 6
Prices: 9|d. lOd. ll£d. Is. Id. Is. 21d. Is. 4d, .
This is perhaps the Most Popular Hose for Children, being
almost indestructible.
gd
Ladies 9 Hose,
“ LA BELLE ” Fancy-ribbed Cashmere Hose, Is. o|d.
1-1 Ribbed Cashmere Hose, 10|d.
“TRIESTE” Plain Cashmere Hose, Is. 3d.
“ HONOR BRIGHT” Full-fashioned Cashmere Hose,
ll£d.
This is remarkable value. Search Sydney, and you could
not get the “ Honor Bright” for less than Is. 3d.
A SCORE OF OTHER POPULAR MAKES.
They have a biy grip of the Hosiery question at MARK FOY’S.
A KTew Music Warehouse
W, H, GLEN & GO.,
MUSIC-SELLERS & PUBLISHERS
(WHOLESALE & RETAIL), and
Importers of Pianos, Organs, Music,
And every description Of Musical Instruments, have much pleasure in announcing that they have
Commenced Business in Sydney,
At those Centrally-situated Premises, No. 359 GEORGE STREET, next door but two to Messrs. David Jones & Co., and nearly opposite the General Post Office. •-
W. H. GLEN & CO. respectfully invite Inspection to their splendid Stock of PIANOS by all the most renowned makers, and
their Great Speciality, the Famous BX/UTHNER PIANOS.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK of SHEET and BOOK MUSIC.
PIANOS and ORGANS on VERY EASY TERMS. Catalogues gratis to any address.
*W. H. GLEN & CO., 350 GEORGE STREET, SYTDIVrEY •
And at 272 and 274 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


It is not generally known that wallabies |
are plentiful in New Guinea, and are esteemed
good eating there. At Port Moresby wallaby sells
at 6d. a lb., and it is often the only fresh meat
obtainable. Wild ducks, geese, and scrub hens
are abundant; the goura pigeon, with a handsome
blue plume on the top of his head, being an
especially fine table bird. Birds of paradise are
becoming scarce, a pair of blue ones being valued
at £2OO.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply, Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. .Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The North is a land of wondrous insect
phenomena. The ticks have lately been devas-
tating the tropical flocks and herds and it was
feared the pest would spread southwards. Luckily
the Centralian ant made the interesting discovery
that ticks and tick-eggs are a charming luncheon
—hence the plague was stayed for a while.
Strange that the northern white ant, pointed out
to all strangers with such pardonable pride, did
not come to the rescue. This joyous “critter ’
grows to nearly half an inch in length in Carpen-
taria, and regards an ironbark railway sleeper as
an exhilarating morning appetiser.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth tlieir
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.
H,P.GREGORY‘CO.,
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEKTBRA.I.
Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents for the
BLAKE
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
(SINGLE and DUPLEX).
. These Pumps are now so well-known all over
Australia that they are generally recognised as the
MOST RELIABLE STEAM PUMPS IN
THIS MARKET.
PUMPS
—FOR—
All kinds of Pumping Work
In STOCK, suitable for
Mining, Irrigation, Marine Work “
Waterworks,
Boiler-feeding, Creameries, etc.
Send for our Catalogues and Circulars.
JAMES CARROLL,
hand and Income Tax Adjuster and Sworn
Valuator
(Appointed by the Govt, under the Real Property Act).
Land, Mining, Financial and Estate Agency,
19 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
18 MEDALS AWARDED 18
—TO—
S. 3E3. JEA.KTS,
Patentee and Manufacturer of Gas Fires, Gas Cooking
Stoves, Water Heaters for Baths,
Sanitary and Licensed Plumber, Gaxfitter, dec.,
JUNCTION, ST. KILDA.
Gas and Water Laid On. X Estimates Given.
Postal Address: St. Hilda ltd., Melbourne.
Government Notices.
** Land and Income Tax Assessment
Act of 1895. ’
"T^TOTICE is hereby given, under section 30 of
the above Act, that -Returns of Land
and income for the purposes of the assessment
of Land and Income Tax are required to be fur-
nished to the Commissioners of Taxation, at their
Office, on or before »he 537th day of March,
1896 ; and all persons who are owners of
land, or in receipt of income, and all persons
liable under the provisions of the Act in
any representative capacity to furnish re-
turns for the purposes, aforesaid, are hereby
informed that the prescribed forms of returns, ex-
cept those for Companies, are now available, and
may be obtained on application at any Post
Office, Police Office, Custom House, Kail-
way Station, and the Office of any Clerk of
Petty Sessions in New South Wales, Stamp
Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at
the i axaiion Office. Custom House, Sydney.
Forms for Companies can be obtained at the
Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at
the Taxation Office, Custom House, Sydney.
All owners of land are required to furnish
Ileturns of the whole of the lands owned by
them, notwithstanding that the value of such
lands, or any portion thereof, is below the ex-
empted amount of =£24o.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or
profession on their own account are required to
furnish Income Returns irrespective of the amount
of their income ; but no Return of Income is
required from any person in receipt of
Salary or Wages only, if the gross anniiab
amount of such salary or wages does not exceed
.£2OO.
Public attention is called to the fact that a
penalty of Twenty Pounds is imposed on any
person neglecting to furnish the return required of
him within the time above mentioned, and that
persons failing to furnish such return are not
relieved from liability to the penalty by reason
only that they may have received no notice to fur-
nish the return, or that the prescribed form may
not have been delivered to them.
JAMES POWELL,'i
R. N. JOHNSON, \
L. S. SPILLER, J
Commissioners
of Taxation.
Land and Income Tax Office,
Custom House, Sydney,
20th February, 1896.
N.B.— Particular attention is called to the observa-
" "tions and directions on the Forms of Return.
781
Business Announcements.
Organs
By STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
for Church, School and Parlor.
Pianos
By E. KRAUSS, GERHARD ADAM,
etc., etc.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS
By REYNOLDS & CO.
E. BESSON & CO.
Violins,
BOWS, STRINGS, and all kinds of
fittings.
Accor t! eons,
CONCERTINAS, MOUTH ORGANS,
BANJOS, GUITARS, MANDOLINES,
and all kinds of Musical Instruments and
Fittings.
Wholesale Warehouse :
A. P. SYKES
(Late Philip P. Samuel & Co.),
227 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
Price Lists on application.
BURNS & BRIGHT,
148 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY
SPECIAL
Wood Burning' Stove.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
“ The A ustralis. 99
i~ |
mmm
Burns 20in. wood.
Greenfield and
Barraclough,
Spectacle Makers,
371 GEORGE STREET 371
(A.J.S. Bank-buildings, near King Street, SYDNEY).
Sir SAMUEL GRIFFITH, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice,
Queensland, writes:—“l have much pleasure in saying
that you are entirely at liberty to make use of my name
in certifying to your being competent Ophthalmio
Opticians, in whom the public may place confidence.”
Sight Examined Free of Charge.
Business Announcements,
NATATORIUM,
400 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE GRANDEST SWIMMING BATHS IN
AUSTRALIA.
Sea Water Swimming Baths and Hot Sea and
Fresh-Water Plunge Baths.
Open on week days for yentlemen from fi a.m.
to 9 p.rn., and on Sundays till Noon.
PLUNGE BATHS and a Small Swimming
Bath for LADIES DAILY.
Swimming T aug li t.
tSS" A Fresh Supply of Sea-water Daily.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £3,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital, as on 10th Sept., 1895 1,894,200 0 0
Reserved Fund, as on 10th Sept., 1895 1,172,297 2 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq. I Thomas Cadell, Esq
Robert C. Close, Esq. | James T. Walker, Esq.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Auditors:
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Golonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, and conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and ths East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Cable Address— KiemSElL. Telephone No-696-
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarice &c Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS,
Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide
(Late Australasia Chambers, King William St.).
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill. . ,
Particulari of all Australian Investment and Mining
Slocks. Special attention given to business in Bank
Deposit Receipts.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £366,358
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND .. 30,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Tlie Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd.
IXCOKI’O HATED 1870.
Directors:
Hon. G. THORNTON, M.L.O.
(Chairman.)
Dk. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., J.P.
Hon. E. B. SUTTOR.
fg
Registered under the Companies
Act, 1890.
CHIEF OFFICE IN NEW SOUTH
WALES :
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES.
STRICTLY MUTUAL. ALL PROFITS__JDIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PtTeM lUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURRENDER VALUE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditions X-xfc>era.l. Security XJrxcloutoted.
j. M. M'CRAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
Taken as Cash all over tlie World.
The Cheque Bank Limited, London.
1 CAPITAL, £.500,000.
Established over 20 Years.
Travellers’ Drafts.
Circular Notes,
Money Orders.
CHEQUE BANK CHEQUES:
FOR REMITTANCE OF MONEY to all parts of the World, are CHEAPER, and have
innumerable advantages over Ordinary Money Orders.
FOR TRAVELLERS the most convenient form of carrying money, and the most useful
Circular Notes.
CASHED by upwards of 15,000 Banks all over the World, and by over 2200 Banks in
Great Britain. _ .
Handbooks and all Information on Application.
SYDNEY AGENCY: JAMES MALCOLM,
56 Pitt Street (near Bridge-st.) General Agent for Australasia.
/A
MadiaM
MealiNg
A**
A
v£
If you cannot procure at your Chemist, write us direct.
NORTHROP & LYMAN CO., Ltd.
15 Bridge St., Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital £3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities oi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
" —THE-U
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £«. 000,000
Paid-up . .. £3,955,281 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargood, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M’Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cutcheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 lii.shopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES'.
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET,
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Ltd.
Int orporated under the “ Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. .. £4,000,000
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,557,392 3 0
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 192,607 17 0
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. .. 0 0
_ 2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Chairman, Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Vice-Chairman, A. S. King, Esq. John Grice, Esc.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Auditois: W. H. Tuckett, Esq.;
Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey Smith.
South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches throughout
South Australia. Local Directors: Caleb Peacock, Esq.,
J.P.; John BPigot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison.
New South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £43,733 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of Assigned and
Insolvent Estates undertaken.
JAME« BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Offices in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales:
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.O.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCL-ULATED FUNDS exceed £1,750,000.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS since commencement of the
Society exceeds
Twenty-one Millions sterling (£31,000,000),
Being an average of a MILLION for each year of its
existence.
T. JAQUES MARTIN, General Manager.
Money to Lend.
FIIHTIEK REDUCED KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D, & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over JJIO
4d. per month for every pound over ,£2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over —Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
- —THE—
Colonial Mutual Five
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE, 71 Khig William Street.
BRISBANE, Greek Street.
MELBOURNE. 60 Market Street.


Piles Cured.
Free samples, pamphlets of the new Cannalin
remedies, the latest and most successful treat-
ment, forwarded to any part of the colonies on
p plication to the depot for Australasia, 257
30 r ge-street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
The firm of Bennett & Wood—or, rather,
Mr. “ Charley ” Bennett—has lately taken over
new cycling premises in George-street, in the very
heart of Sydney. Mr. C. Bennett was for five
years champion cyclist of N.S.W., and he gave
racing up in order to work up a champion cycle
business. He now employs over 30 hands, and has
brought many a promising cyclist out —particu-
larly Megson and Payne, who both ride a Rover.
The new establishment has five floors ; and repairs
are a speciality with the firm. Mr. Bennett’s
machines are the Rover, Rapid, and New Hud-
son. The last, which costs ,£lO 10s., is, in Mr.
Bennett’s opinion, one of the best things ever
offered to the public.*
ifil
■%W
r %
ft
i! PateHT
WICK REGULATOR
SCALE ONE FIFTH
BRANDT’S
44 A nti - Can die A 9
A Kerosene Candle with new light
spreader, which increases light and pre-
vents blowing out. For Candlesticks and
Carriage Lamps. Entirely supersedes the
ordinary candle. 110 HOURS’ LIGHT
at a COST of ONE PENNY. Prices—ls
6d and 2s- 6d. Postage 4d per pair
extra. Last for yen"-
“ pru^ias"
Kerosene Gas Stove and Oven.
No Wick, no Smell, Atmospheric Flame.
Roasts, Bods and Bakes. Complete, 50s.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lampmakers and Importers,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or
422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Mr. A- W STEEL,
Member oe Tattkrsall’s,
(133 Victoria Parade, l'itzroy, Melbourne,
Is now prepared with his “ Double” for
The Doncaster Handicap and Sydney Cup.
Fee; 10s. Send at once. ALSO,
THE ONKAPARINGA “DOUBLE”
(HURDLE and STEEPLE).
Fee, 10s. SOMETHING VERY SPECIAL.
Remember, vide the Press -“Mr. Steel is always
successful over SYDNEY and ADELAIDE MEETINGS.
DISCRETIONARY INVESTMENTS
Mr. Steel is, as usual, investing for clients on the above
day, and also over Sandown Park Meeting, run
SATURDAY, March 28, and, in fact, Mr. Steel is always
EVERY SATURDAY to be found in the Ring back-
ing his selections, both tor himself and clients. So do not
be misled by those mushroom tipsters who invariably start
advertising just before a big meeting.
Mr. Steel’s Circular is sent gratis on re-
ceipt of address.
BENNETT* WOOD,
New Address: 397 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for
Rover,” “Rapid” and “Hudson” Cycles
Lists Tree. Machines on Terms.
The Entertainment of the Year.
X 2
RUID
27t1l
9
Grand Annual Gala .
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE,
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1896,
Art, Union, 125 GnMen Prizes - Value, £ l6OO .
FIRST PRIZE, eIOOO Cash. No Deduction.
Great Cycling Carnival—Druids’ Great Wheel Race, £2OO.
Art Union drawn publicly at Hibernian Hall, Melh.,
on Monday, April 13, 8 p m. Winning numbers published
Melh. pipers, April 14. Tiokels, Is. each, with full list ol
prizes, from your local agent; or direct from theSiere-
tary. Is. each - , 11 for 10s., or 23 for 205., on receipt ol
postal note or stamps with address to J. J. BRENAN. Sec.,
Grattan and Drummond Sis., Carlton; from whom alt
particulars concerning Bicycle and Athletic events can be
obtained. £lOO3 for Is.
h AS
E<■/'/
ARE YOU
If so, sell all your FATS llirouuh us. No double com.
missions or disputes. VV kill and export. All
I'd. Silts of Country killed Meat Daily. Drop us » line
M'MASTER CO.,
Government M at Markets, DARLING HARBOR.
ss
■sr
S
*
the person who is n'lk n. millionaire, there ar»
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at i i
SYDNEY. One is ‘•THU tISTStUViy situated oil
GEO ROE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
“HHis’ Kimr-street toffee Pa law*,” situated 5C
KING STREET, and near the General-Post Office.
Proprietor W. IiU.IS.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
116 Pitt Stref.t, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Original Cush Ticlder.
f£r :
Commissions Executed on ALL EVENTS throughout
the World.
STARTING PRICE 20 to 1 Limit on all Horse races.
Telegraphic Code — “Westbrook, Sydney.” Telephone,
No. 1542.
Renowned Physicians, ami even the public are
so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S
MATICO
That the afflicted need not hesitate to use it
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to youug men. Grimault’s
Liquid Matico and Capsules don’t cause
stricture.
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Sort % croofr
I|£NHY tfEATH"
.TRADE M/"
G-. H. smith; & SON
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOIt AUSTRALIA.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
(I
U &mNG
ft Pleasure t 0 u SE
KROPP
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW»GROUND
Made in
Various Widths
of Blades,
Wholesale,
Osborne, Garrett
& Co., London, W.
What a heavy reduction in the value of Mel-
oourne racing-stakes is disclosed by the fact that the re-
sult of the St. Hilda Cup was headlined in the local
’Erald ! The Cup was a handicap of 115 sovs.
* * * *
On the last day of the V.R.C. meeting a lad
named Callanan, an apprentice in W. R. Wilson’s stable,
rode a couple of unexpected winners—Cydnus and Home-
spun—in excellent style. The horses started at outside
prices, got away nicely, and won when they wanted to.
On Saturday at Caulfield the same Cydnus and Homespun
ran again, both being warm favorites for their respective
races. Both were badly beaten. Morrison, who had the
mount on Cydnus, complained that he was interfered
with. Teddy Power, on Homespun, “was in a bad posi-
tion all the way and got blocked at a critical moment.
Moral—lf you want your horse to win let it run loose with
an unknown stable-boy in the saddle. A fashionable
jocke3' on a first favorite seems to suffer from inter-
ference about five times out of six.
• * * *
Cydnus, who unexpectedly won a two-year-old
race for W. R. Wilson the other Saturday, is not unlikely
to develope into the crack of next season. The colt
carried so much flesh that the stable wouldn’t give him a
“ possible ” to beat Miss Carbine, and he started at 20 to 1.
Of course there is a question as to whether Cydnus can
be made much better by hard work. Some two-year-olds
that win when they are “ jolly,” fail miserably when the
trainer gets ’em “fit.”
• * * *
The grey mare Mercia was the only thing that
gave any trouble to Maluma in the Bourke Handicap at
Flemington. Mercia is not a wonder—Maluma was con-
ceding 221 b. and a year —nevertheless, she may be thought
of as having run second, instead of fourth, for the Bourke
Handicap. She was eased as soon as the Newmarket
winner had bested her.
* * * *
“The V.R.C. meeting was not remarkable for
good riding ; on the contrary, the all-round exhibition of
riding was decidedly poor,” says Melb. Argus. The daily
press appears to have been educated at last to a proper
understanding of the difference between horse-riding
and jockeyship.
Idolator was sold last week to C. F. Glasscock,
who will ship the Australian Cup winner to India. A
second-rate animal that manages to capture a big handi-
cap is not likely to prove a profit in its own country any
more, so Idolator was wisely sold.
* * * *
St. Alban’s Wilson had the grim satisfaction of
seeing his three-year-old idol beaten in the Cup by Idola-
tor, a horse of his own breeding, whose chance he never
for a moment seriously canvassed. Then he saw Quiver,
another of his breeding, dead-heat W allace in the Cham-
psll - ,
The Bulletin’s late remarks re Martin were
conclusively verified last Saturday ; the Yankee plugger
made himself conspicuous in the fullest sense. He started
altogether six times, got four firsts and one second. The
succession of sprints by which he caught his big field in
his Australian Cup heat was the performance of the day.
He was the only scratch man to win a heat of either the
Australian Cup or Federal Stakes ; and each time he came
home a brilliant first. The N.S.VV. League should treat
this game rider generously ; as a showman he deserves a
bonus. A man who tries every time should be recog-
nised, especially since there are so many other cyclists
displaying suspicious in-and-out form.
♦ * * *
The N.S.W. Wheelmen’s League, with its many
stars and 128 competitors in all, brought a crowd of
12,000 to Sydney Agri. Ground last Saturday.
m * * *
Martin’s prize-money last Saturday amounted
to £18; Megson’s to £22; Parsons’s to £4. J. P. Johnson,
who won the final of the Australian Cup from Harkins
and C. R. Chapman with a brilliant sprint, got the biggest
prize-money, £4O.
* * .* *
Martin, after having won his heat in the Federal
Stakes (£ mile); in the Invitation International Scratch
Race (1 mile) ; in the Australian Cup (2 miles); met the
fresh Megson in the International Mile final. Three-
fourths of a lap from home, and at the right time, Martin
began his spurt, but he had taken too much out of him-
self to make the long spurt hot enough to shake off Meg-
son. Once in the straight, Joe M., as of old, picked up
his machine and flashed home with his light gear. The
pair had another fight in the First Class Handicap (1J
mile), but Martin’s great stamina landed him home in
front of both Parsons and Megson, in that order.
* * * *
Parsons was splendidly downed by Payne in
one of the heats of the International Mile. Except his
second place to Martin in the First Class Handicap, (l£
mile), Parsons failed to get anything last Saturday. His
trainer explains that “ Jack ” has had but one run since
the Adelaide meeting.
* * * *
Pither, the ex-Maorilander, seemed to be killed
by his big gear last Saturday. He had syds. start of
Martin in the Federal Stakes (14-mile) heat; but couldn’t
get going until the compact Yank had jumped on to his
back wheel directly after pistol-crack. It was painful to
see Pither’s long legs toiling after Martin—there was
only one sadder exhibition, that of a Sydney pressman
scorching hopelessly with busted boiler and flying hair.
Harris, whose bad form was commented on last
week, started four times last Saturday without Setting a
place. Lewis, who is far from condition, led Harris all
the way in the pair’s International Mile heat, and came
in first by a length. Lewis rode with cleverness and
judgment. # 0
When Martin shall get stale, as he must in
time, will Harris, who is now most palpably on the rest,
try to fill Martin’s place ?
* * * *
It would be well for the League to limit the
field when riders are inexperienced ; when two-thirds of a
numerous field came down on the Sydney Cricket Ground
in the Lily-White Amateurs’ meeting not long ago, it was
a miracle no one was killed.
* * * *
When will two or three good cyclists realise that
woman is not the diet to train on ?
* * * *
Two or three of the cyclists who fell at Sydney
last Saturday got terrible purters. L. M‘lnnes, who was
finishing at the rate of over 30 miles an hour, came down
with a crash as his tyre blew up with the report of a
Eistol. MTnnes pitched upon his skull, and lay stunned.
is head and face streaming blood ; pieces of his scalp
were gouged out, his face, arms, and legs were much torn,
and he was still insensible when the ambulance corps
carried him off on a stretcher. Many women went into
hysterics.
* * * *
The plucky Porta, who thinks Australia the
cyclist’s paradise, is to be “benefited” by his admirers in
Melb. Exhibition building next month.
* * * *
Martin never appreciated Megson’s true worth
until Saturday, when the resuscitated Sydney champion
beat him in the international mile. “As good as I am, if
not better,” remarked the ’Murkan. And Martin, be it
remembered, is in tip-top form just now.
* » * *
Some cycling superstitions : “ Bob ” Lewis, of
Sydney, never races so well as when he wears a lady’s
ring on his little finger; Busst, racing, used the same
saddle for six years ; Don Walker can’t pedal an inch if
“4” is his number ; Zim. had a superstition about an old
pair of shoes; the experienced Elliott always carefully
parts his pretty hair before going out upon the track.
Most of the Melb. professional cyclist-trainers
sport natty turns-out, and run a pony or two. The game
seems to pay better than training pugs or peds. “ Are
you going to let Smith Jig to-day V’
In chronicling the proceedings of the League of
Vic. Wheelmen, the local cycling organ solemnly dubs
each of the youthful members “Councillor”—“Councillor
Sprocket arose and pointed out,” &c. which must be
highly edifying to those in the institution where the 16-
year-old Sprocket officiates as junior clerk. This incident
calls to mind a large photo, exhibited in an Elizabeth-
street show-case, representing four young men seated
round a table, with a huge scroll spread before them.
Their brows are knitted, and an expression of intense
anxiety overshadows each face. The average spectator
imagines that they must be, at least, drawing up a Federal
Constitution, or planning how to circumvent an invading
army, until the eye catches the gilt-title below, “ The
Founders of the League of Vic. Wheelmen.”
* * * *
Lane and Roberts, two popular members of the
Wallaroo (Sj’dney) football club, having passed their final
exam’s, have gone into business together as solicitors.
The N.S.W. Society of Artists.
The Society of Artists shows an interesting ex-
hibition of cabinet-pictures on the ground-floor of
the premises of the Mutual Life Association of
Australia, in Wynyard-street, Sydney, where a
collection of 143 exhibits, principally in oils, but
well-representing black-and-white and water-colors
also, has been placed in a commodious but not too
well-lighted room.
* * * *
Mr. Tom Roberts, the chairman of the society,
sends several attractive figure subjects, the best of
which is the “ Plead Study ” (38) of a pretty,
dark-eyed girl, daintily Veiled, though the
stray sharp shadow between the cheek and
chin detracts a little from the modelling of
the face. The semi-nude, reclining “ Odalisque ”
(33) scarcely so successful, and the good tech-
nique in “ Nellie ” (23) suffers from the needlessly
contracted width of the subject. Mr. Roberts’s
landscape work is happy and poetic—-in several
cases with somethin* of the old Venetian color
feeling. Mr. Streeton is hortieulturally strong in
rural work. In No. 8, called simply “Landscape,”
his touch is as artistically delicate and reticent as
in the richly-verdured “ All in a Garden Fair ” (9)
it is firm and lavish of the palette. A lovely
stretch of the River (34) has all the
freshness of a water - color. “The Travellers’
Rest ” (40), a little shanty on a meadowed hill, is
one of the most poetic and best-painted of this
artist’s works that we remember; “.Vlosman’s
Bay ” and “ Landscape Sketch ” (35 and 8 ) are
seductive little bits of bush, palpitating with Aus-
tralian sunlight; and “The Arrival of Gov.
Hampden ” (30) is quite a well-limned Harbor
view.
* * * ♦
Mr. A. H. Fullwood has seldom painted better
than in his chief work “An Australian River”
(24), the “quality” and serial perspective of
which are very attractive. Mr. Fullwood has
several coast pieces, delightful in their breezy
freshness or their sunny glow, of which “ Near
Cape Hawke” (14) and “Port Stephens” (54)
may be specially cited ; while in a city “Noc-
turne ” (47) and “ Gale off the Seal Rocks ” (73), a
telling sweep of angry wave under a still more
angry sky, he shows the sterner stuff that he is
made of. Mr. J. R. Ashton is developing a
notably strong sense of color—a color peculiarly
and individually his own. His most powerful
color-scheme is seen in the striking little “Reeds
by the River ” (45), but perhaps the most satisfying
of his efforts are “ The Accommodation House ”
(46) and “The Lady Amateur” (57), a skirted
artist at her easel in the open.
* * * *
Miss Emily Meston, if she does not quite main-
tain the high standard of portraiture displayed by
her last year, is nevertheless strong in her
“ Portrait ” (19) of a grey-headed man, full of
character and expression, and showing able brush-
work ; while seldom has finer flower-painting been
seen in Sydney than her “Summer Roses” (29)
and “ Fortune’s Pillow ” (39), the latter somewhat
the richer of the two in tone. Another lady-
painter, Miss Edith Deane, exhibits in these two
branches of her art, with a little panel portrait of
a snowy-haired old lady called “ Threescore years
and ten ” (74) and some beautifully-painted grapes
(65). Miss Ethel A. Stephens has likewise a
grape-subject (71) deftly executed on a rosewood
panel. Miss Alice E. Norton sends several good
water-colors, the best of which is “On the Win-
bumdale ” (132), and Miss E. Paul a “Sketch”
(112) abounding in sunny color.
* * * *
None, perhaps, of the exhiDitors is so unequal
as Mr. J. S. Watkins. Among works possessing
scantiest value are several of remarkable excel-
lence. In his winsome little “ Cook’s River ’’ (41),
his well-named “ Falling Twilight ” (28), and his
low-toned poetic “Garden of Weeds’’ (48), Air.
Watkins displays somewhat the same attractive
characteristics that Mr. Albert Hansom has ac-
quired in England ; whilst his portrait-study of a
well-known Sydney character, “A Bush Type”
(77) is as spirited and forceful as his “ Lodge ” of
the Cemetery, Devonshire-street (79), is full of
peace and sunlight. Air. Sid. Long is another
artist whose work shows much inequality, and
whose love of color needs chastening. His other-
wise effective “Coming into Camp” (66) is
marred by garishness, and his clever and
artistic “Alary” (83) suffers somewhat from
the same defect. His “ Pastoral ” (51), how-
ever, is well painted, with a telling light and
shade, and “In an Old Garden ” (68), in which a
child is gathering a posy, is a pretty low-toned
idyl. Remarkable advance is shown by Mr. D. G.
Reid, whose “ Summer Swallows ” (67) is a power-
ful, finely-colored study of tree and sedge. “In
the Shadow ” (126) is an effective water-color, and
“The Sand Slide” (130) a particularly pleasing
work in the same medium. Mr. Hall Thorpe is
scarcely wise in attempting as yet such subjects as
the Jameson Valley at Katoomba, though in his
less ambitious flights he is acceptable. “Hay-
making at Richmond ” (17) is full of life, and
“ Evening ” (26) is a telling little seascape.
* * * *
Mr. W. B. Spong contributes some delightful
architectural subjects—locally “ A Bit of the Old
Market ” and “ St. Andrew’s Cathedral from
Kent-st.” (11l and 131), and from Europe a gay
and lively “ Street in Segovia ” (117), and a pen-
sively poetic “ Wet Day at Ntirnberg (129). He
has besides, an exceedingly telling forest piece,
“ Nicholas Creek, M.L.” (125). All these are in
water-colors, as are also two especially fine sub-
jects by Mr. W. A. Moir, “ Harbor Mists ” and
“ Evening Showers ” (114 and 115), both painted
with a European feeling—the latter with much
power. In “The Fishing Rocks, Clifton” (118),
Mr. Fred. Lejst produces some striking wave
drawing with a few rough touches of the brush;
and in “ Old Friends ” (121) Mr. Harry Waugh,
who has also some gord rural subjects, furnishes a
careful piece of still life, while Mr. G. Lambert is
so forceful in “The Shearers’ Race” (127) that
other contributions by him would have been wel-
come. Mr. L. Hopkins’s clever and characteristic
“ Dry Point ” (92), Mr. Fullwood’s artistic etching
of “The Black Horse, Richmond” (93), and Mr.
Norman Hardy’s grimly realistic “For the Term
of his Natural Life ” (143), a most artistic draw-
ing, are but a few of the various specimens of
black and white deserving of attention ; while the
best examples of plastic art are Mr. Nelson Illing-
worth’s models of a goat and a dog’s head.
Antifermentine.
A splendid display of fruit—peaches,
oranges, apples, plums, grapes, &c.—
preserved by Antifermentine is on show
at Messrs. Elliott Brothers’, No. 18
O’Connell St., Sydney. The fru it, in its
large and well-shaped bottles, looks very
tempting, and retains its natural rich
color. The only objection to the display
is that every bottle is too large to be
slipped into the pocket when no one is
looking. Antifermentine has been con-
stantly used in the United States for
over tvelve (12) years, yet the leading
physicians and eminent analysts of that
country all speak of it with the highest
praise. No less an organ than the
American Analyst of New York says :
“ We consider Antifermentine the latest,
most scientific and useful preparation of
the age ; the moment fruit ripens it should
be utilised or decay sets in unless it be
preserved. Among the many processes
of preserving, the best is Antifermentine.”
Its principal ingredient is an article of
diet whicii has been used for many years
universally as a food preservative. The
other components include preservatives
which in cases of rheumatism and neur-
algia have effected remarkable cures.
The whole compound combines these
efficacious agents in a tablet which pre-
serves all fruits so perfectly that it ranks
as one of the scientific successes of the
day. Here is the latest competent testi-
mony concerning Antifermentine :
‘ ‘ Technical College Laboratory,
‘ ‘ Harris-st., Sydney,
“February 19, 1896.
“ Antifermentine is made up in tablet
form, each weighing about 22jgrs. One of
these is to be added to each pint of fruit.
Many persons cannot eat fruit in consequence
of weak digestion, but for those who can do
so the quantity of Antifermentine used would
make ‘no perceptible difference. A person
would have to consume at one time several
gallons of fruit before enough would be taken
to produce any deleterious effect. I have,
therefore, no hesitation in saying that the
use ot Antifermentine in quantities directed
can have no deleterious effect.
“ (Signed) W. A. Dixon,
“F.C.S., F.1.C.”
Antifermentine can be obtained from
all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony.


Dear Bulletin, — Re the “ Enrnore Mys-
tery, what s the use of a eoronial system that
hnds a verdict of -‘Accidental Death” on the
evidence of the Government Pathologist, without
examining the doctor who first saw the dead
woman, and who noticed, it now turns out, several
circumstances incompatible with the theory of
her having fallen downstairs—which circum-
stances, he opines, may have escaped Dr. Rennie’s
notice because the body had probably been, in the
meantime, removed to a bed ? Nine times out of
ten, too, the jury’s verdict isn't the jury’s—it’s the
coroners. And that it is possible to be a coroner
and an ass of the first magnitude, is a matter of
everyday demonstration.—Jus.
Are the native animals of Australia tick-
proof ? Wombats, kangaroos, snakes, iguanas,
and native bears in full vigor are often found,
when killed, to be full of ticks. Apropos of the
tick question, it may be noted that the red-water
epidemic does not extend to horses, although these
animals are often attacked by ticks. Some day the
world will awake to the fact that the horse is the
cleanest and least diseased of all the greater quad ru-
peds, and therefore the best fitted for food. The
flesh is perfectly palatable ; trichinosis and similar
porcine troubles don’t affect the equine race ; while
tuberculosis, the scourge of cattle, is rare in horses.
Mulga Philosophy : The squatter who has
the worst name and most blanks to it, is generally
the best to work for. Good-looking women are
far more generous to swagmen than plain ones.
The cooks who tell you they were “sacked ” at
the last place for giving food to travellers gener-
ally close the kitchen-door when they see a swag-
man approach. The squatter who is mean to
travellers generally feeds his station-hands well.
Ihe “ good hearted bushman,” who is free with
his- money, will call you into a pub. to have a
drink ; but don’t ask him for 6d. to buy a loaf of
bread. Por heart and muscles in a woolshed, go
to the shearers; for brain and sense and humor,
to the rouseabouts. —G x 8.
The most marvellous institution in Banana-
land is the Fitzroy River, whereon stands Rock-
hampton. On towards £150,000 has been flung in
the last 20 years into that tortuous stream in the
wild hope of making it navigable. Retaining
walls have been painfully built up—to be washed
down again and add to the silt; an expansive and
picturesque bridge was erected, to go lopsided
immediately ; the channel has been repeatedly
deepened, to be straightway re-silted up. During
the recent floods and rains the bridge had to be
tied up to some trees and a fence, and the river
altered its course so much in parts that the inhabi-
tants lost a day or two in looking for it. And a
few miles south is a beautiful port, Gladstone,
begging, and praying for communication with the
interior.
Artificial Teetb., £5.
COMPLETE (Upp Q r and Lower) Gld Medal Sets
of perfectly - fitting Teeth, £5. Misticatimi
guaranteed. Tliese are llie bear, and lowest in price
made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
aunts. Old misfit tintf cases remodelled. Nen ous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering with own
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate
after if wanted. Painless extractions daily by nitrous
oxide or cocaine. Fee, ss. No danger or ill-effects
follow. Send for Treatise on Teeth.
Consultations Fn e. Fees precisely the same as adver-
tised. Mention this paper.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist,
New Address
28 WYNSf ARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert's), SYDNEY.
Publishers' Notice.
POTJETH .AICTIDTTT-AXr
STOCK-TAKING
SAXE.
ITT E beg to intimate that, in order to reduce Stock
V V prior to Stock-taking, we are now holding a
CLEARANCE SALE.
The following inducements are offered to pur-
chasers during the progress of the Sale :
1. Thousands of the most recent publica-
tions at HALF-PRICE.
2. A discount of is. in the pound off all
second-hand boohs on shelves.
3. 'Thousands of volumes in all depart-
ments of lite ature have been ar-
ranged on separate tables at 6d.,
1/-, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6, 3/6, and 5/-
i. Special Discount off School Prizes.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
Booksellers to The University,
89 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Fm
The poor Barmaid haring
a little hit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, post free Is Cd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
Mdin. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
A®E
© 9
Designed
Displayed
and Electrotyped B v us
df
!Ttiptop
STYLE
F.T. UJIHBLE & CO.
EXPERTS IN
Advertisement Display
87 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY.
TRY US
One
gd
Sparkle and vim.
Full of good health.
Full of everything good.
Every bottle of this
great effervescent temperance
“ beverage is a sparkling, bubbling
fountain of health—a source of
Vou make it yourself right at home.
A Is. package makes 5 gallons. Sold Everywhere.
WHOLESALE AfiENTS FOR AUSTF VLIA—
SHIRLEY, CLAYTON A Co..
i SYDNEY. ■■■—i ■
Dp. ROBERTS’
fg
Are a Sovereign Remedy for
Bruises,
Burns,
Cancer,
Cuts,
Eczema,
I
B£i*&
Eruptions,
Eyes Inflamed,
Fistula,
Gangrene,
Pimples,
Piles, Scorbutic Complaints, Skin Diseases
Ulcerated Legs &. Wounds of every description.
Price Is. ljd., 2s. 9d.. 11s., 225. each.
Sole Proprietors,
BEACH & BARNICOIT, Ltd., Bridport, ENG.
iegal
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
No. 2047.
IN DIVORCE.
Between GEORGE GUILD PALMER, Petiti-
tioner; ELLEN PALMER, Respondent ; and
JOHN MURPHY and WILLIAM MILLS,
Co-Respondent.
To JOHN MURPHY and WILLIAM MILLS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said George Guild
Palmer has commenced a suit against Ellen
Palmer in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
Adultery with each of you and take notice that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper Office of this Honorable
Court within twenty-eight days after the publica-
tion hereof and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit will be
heard and determined your absence notwithstand-
ing. A Copy of the Petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
EDWIN SHEPHERD,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Deniliquin.
For the Registrar,
JOHN GEO. LEARY, (Seal)
Clerk in Divorce.
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
THEATRE,
Sole Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson and
Musgrove.
TO-NIGHT (Thursdav) —“ DECIMA," and the
LIVING PICTURES.
FRIDAY and SATURLAY, March 20 and 21-“ MA
MIE ROSETTE,’ and the LIVING PICTURES.
IS*” Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesdiy—“lN TOWN - ’’
No Free List. Prices as Usual. Early Doors Is. extra.
JJ E It MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees .. Messrs. Woods & Marshall.
Manager .. Mr. Alfred Woods.
EVERY EVENING (at 8 o’clock) EVERY EVENING
“A TRANSVAAL HEROINE.”
Farewell Appearances of Australia’s Favorite, ALFRED
DAMPIEU, supported by Her Majesty's Dramatic Co.
Popular Prices of Admission. Bex Plan at Nicholson’s
J. L. LE BRETON, Anting Manager.
Saturday, March 14-“ A TRANSVAAL HEROINE.'*
rpiIEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. C. B. Westmacott.
Treasurer and Bus. Manager .. Mr. Frank Barnes.
LAST TWO NIGHTS (Thursday and Friday)
“ The Enemy’s Camp.”
Prices-3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Theatre. Booking
Fee , 6d.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Lessee & Manager Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success of
Mr. Marry Jiickards ’ Neiv Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
«0 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very' Best Arlists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, £1 Is; Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
rjIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydnn.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO.
|3P“ Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager. JOHN C. LEETE.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the management of Mr. Dan Barry.
*, ANOTHER MAJESTIC TRIUMPH **
—BY —
DAN BARRY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
In th“ Spßndid Up-to Date Drama,
“THE FACTORY GIRL OF MELBOURNE.”
Change of Piece Every Saturday.
POPULAR PRICES-2s, Is, and 6d-POPULAB PRICES
J3RINCESSS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Mnsgrove.
Sub-Lessees and Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
“ Fedora.”
Written by VICTORIEN SARDOU.
Bex Plan at Allan’s. 131?” PRICES AS USUAL.
fJIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING!
THE GREAT PSYCHOLOGICAL DRAMA,
“ £he (Silencs of §ean (Maitland
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
“A Golden Shanty.”
OS’ PRICE: Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
Removal PJotice.
NICHOLSON & CO.
Have Removed from the Corner King ai.d George Streets, to their
New and Elegant Premises,
NEXT EQUITABLE BUILDING,
George-street, Sydney.
THE
Finest Piano & Music Warehouse in the Southern Hemisphere.
Note the New Address: Next Equitable Building.
WE PAY HIGHEST PRICES IN CASH foe
KANGAROO SKINS,
GEO. WILCOX & CO.,
9 Young Street,
CIRCULAR QUAY,
SYDNEY.
WALLABY SKINS,
RABBIT SKINS,
OPOSSUM & BEAR SKINS.
NO COMMISSIONS DEDUCTED.
PAYMENT RETURNED SAME DAY SKINS RECEIVED.
Write for Price List.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMTH LINE.
TO ALL
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
Fnr
MELBOURNE
Tyrian. Saturday, March 28, 2 p.m.
Kouoowarra, Tues., March 31, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE )
PORT AUGUSTA V
PORT PIRIE j
Konoowarra, Tues., March 31, 5 p.ra.
ALBANY
EKEMANTLE
GERAI.DTON
Konoowarra, Tues., March 31, 5 p.m
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Sat., March 28, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tues., March SI, 5 p.m
MACKAY
TOWNbVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Maroh 28, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 4, 2 p.in.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST Cl It KENT FAKES TO ALL FOOTS,
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—67 York street, between King & Barrack streets.
Wharves—Font of King-street, S.vdney.
1 .INGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cnroutt
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £fif> to £C,7 10s.
Combination Ticket, ... J 657 13s. Id.
STEERAGE £3l 19s. 7d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Passenger Office, Moore
Street, near G. P. 0., Sydney.
TICKETS. TICKETS.
KEIUIEO RATE*
To any part of the Australian Colonies, New Zealand,
America, Europe, Africa, &c.
TICKETS Jiought, Sold, Exchanged,
—AT—
Passenger Ticket Supply Agency*
135 King Street (over F. F. Ice Co.), SYDNEY ;
121 Spring Street, MELBOURNE; also ADELAIDE.
Medical.
BBK
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Cool and Refreshed in the Horrzsr
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, «c.
And preserves the Tin' SKIN fiom the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually t* an anv other preparation.
It is delightfully Cooi.md and Rf.frfshino if applied to
the Face or Hands after beii > ont in the Bon. Tennis-
playing Yachting, 4c. It removes all Heatand Initation
caused by the Son, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, Is. &2s. 6d. Sole Makers:
M. BEICTHAM & SON, Chemists, ChePeiihnm. Fngland.
FELTON, GRTMVVADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
ARTIFICIAL PERFUMES.
CAUTION !
Messrs. J. & E. ATKINSON warn
their customers against the Artificial
Chemical Perfumes at present so
extensively offered. Though strong
they are nasty , and from a hygienic
point of view their use is to be strongly
deprecated.
ATKINSON’S “NATURAL” PERFUMES
are made from flowers, and possess all their
natural fresh sweetness. They cannot be
surpassed either in delicacy or strength.
ATKINSON'S “WHITE ROSE,”
‘ A charming scent ’-H. R.H. The Duchess of York.
J. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Old Bond St,, London,
Tales of the convict system
Price—One Shilling.
EXCELSIOR NICOTINE LIQUID
A Pure Tobacco Dip- Best and Cheapes in tlie Market.
USED ON OVER 200,000,000 SHEEP.
df
ancl Lice.
Cures am
Prevents Scab and Po o trot.
Absolutely Destroys Ticks
C (in bottles), -|-pts., 1/6; pts., 2/6 each.
Rialto,” Collins-street, MELBOURNE; 63 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Nicotine Mange Car
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
Nicotine Blight Cure (in bottles). |-pts , 1/6; pts., 2/6 each


GENERAL DEBILITY
and Indigestion
Made Her Rife Miserable, but She is
Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Read the testimony of Mrs. E. G.
Monro, Coburg, Victoria, whose por-
trait is also given:
fi
9
n
All
“Some few years ago I suffered
terribly with indigestion and gen-
eral debility. I could not slei p,
and my condition was such as to
make my life miserable. None < f
the many remedies I tried did me
any good, and I despaired of ever
getting better. One of my friends
told me of the blood-purifying and
strength-giving properties of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and I began taking it.
Before 1 had finished the first bottle
I felt better, and was thus encour-
aged to give the medicine a thorough
trial. In all I used four bottles,
and then was perfectly cured of the
grievous trouble which had afflicted
me. I now recommend, to anyone
suffering as I did.
AYER’S
SARSAPARILLA
As a Splendid Nerve and Blood Medicine.
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it prodi ces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as lor the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents —Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell &Co., Ltd.
BE A TJTIF UL EL OWE US
SEARL’S,
SYDNEY’S FLORISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
“Chamberlain represents Villadom—the
class between Gentry and People.”—Paris Temps.
The “ Cambridge Natural History ” —a
work now being written by the most eminent
English experts—states that “in the neighbor-
hood of Melbourne, where the praying mantis
is plentiful, specimens are placed by the citizens
on the window-blinds of their houses, so that the
rooms may be cleared from flies by means of the
indefatigable voracity of the mantis.” Also,
Melbourne boarders habitually take tiger-snakes
to bed with them instead of insecticide, and
bunyips are employed in the suburbs as fowl-
protectors.
Dear Bulletin, — Vide a recent cable :
“ The foreign crew of the Ailsa seized the boats
and abandoned ship and passengers.” This “ you-
find-’nother-piecee-box ” terror will rule so long
as vessels of one nation are manned by the cheap
mariners of another nation. It is not cowardice,
but racial distrust, that determines foreigners upon
seizing the first chance—otherwise the chance
might be grabbed by the other fellow. Put J.
Bull as deck-dog to a bullying Italian skipper, for
instance, and a crowd of contemptuous Italian pas-
sengers. Result—“ ’Nother piecee box.” Such
things probably happen at times, but, of course,
we never hear of J.B.’s cowardice.- —Thorold W.
A writer on “ The Larger Cats,” in Jan.
Windsor Magazine, gets off the following highly
edifying mass of sentiment: —
No other section of the mammalia can he said to come
up to such a standard, or as a class can be found to show
so much of that essentially British quality, pluck, when
brought to bay and facing enormous odds.
Which, of course, is merely an issue of the great
conviction that everything high and noble is
“essentially British,” and the other thing is
peculiarly French or else “made in Germany.” In
fact, the belief that God is a Cockney is substan-
tially in the Scriptures when it is asserted that
“ God is good.”
Dear Bulletin,-- Apropos Boers and Uit-
landers, may I tell how an Outlander is treated in
N.S.W. ? lam a pharmaceutical chemist, quali-
fied and registered in Denmark, holding the
Danish degree of Doctor of Pharmacognoscy.
Three years ago I came to N.S.W. and applied to
the Pharmacy Board for registration. Application
refused without comment. With my profession
barred to me, I struggled to make a livelihood
somehow, and by hard work and some luck suc-
ceeded—barely. I have become known to
leading drug-firms, Government medical officers,
magistrates, and others, and, backed by their
recommendations, have repeatedly applied for
registration. No use ! I cannot even get a store-
keeper’s license to sell poisons ; though many
people without the least knowledge of drugs get it
easily—because they are not Danish ? I am told
only a misinterpretation of the Act stands against
me. Whether this is so or not, as I know my
qualifications and show my proofs, I feel hardly
used. Would I be the worse off in Transvaal?
—Ph. D.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Gov. Kintore, when on his famous over-
landing trip through the Territory, stayed one
night (a race-night) at Oodnadatta. Next morn-
ing, at dawn, thirsty souls whose owners had
camped out in the road all night clamored for
admission to the pub. Their hair and beards
and clothes and voices were thick and stiff with a
muddy mixture of beer and road-dust. The first
to gain admission by forcible assault on the side-
door was a fearful example in moleskins, a cab-
bage-tree hat, much battered, and no shirt. Just
after midnight he had challenged everybody in
Oodnadatta to come out in the road and be
jumped on, then he had fallen over the water-
trough into a puddle, where a neglected horse-
team had been standing, and slept until the
thirsty morn. This individual was confronted in
the passage by Kintore, in dressing-gown and
slippers. The Earl said he was 100 \g for the
bath-room, and asked the way. The beery one
held himself against the wall and regarded the
Earl steadily with his unbunged eye. “I’m
blanky sure you’re lookin’ for the bath-room,” he
muttered slowly. Then he winked laboriously
and solemnly. But Kintore didn’t catch on, and
repeated his enquiry with so much asperity that
the fearful example was half convinced of the
lord’s earnestness, so he said : “ Now, see here,
mister, do I look like a bloke as ud be likely to
know where the blazin’ bath-room is ?” “ Well,”
said Kintore, “on closer inspection ah’m inclined
to think it was after all a verra foolish kwaystion. ’
WEST AUSTRALIA.
SPLENDID BUILDING SITES AND BLOCKS
—AT
PERTH, the CAPITAL CITY,
FROM £l5 EACH. VERY EASY TERMS.
Discount for Cash. Title Guaranteed Perfect.
The Intercolonial Investment 00.
(Limited),
309 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VV. J. Douglas, Manager.
Note.—Map of West Australia (4 colors),
latest data. Post free, Is. each.
1207
tgSSSSSKHLsi
124
372
1208
403
126
4*
N.W
A
12 S
127
hdp
0 78
wgggSSSSmm
—THE-
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
658 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest Si Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market.
SEE THAT OUR TRADE.
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A VSPPALIAN
NEEDLEWOOD
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234 — 3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
COUGHS.
SPEEDY RELIEF and CURE.
TAKE
]>onmn<;toys
(Registered)
Irish 31 oss
—FOR —
COUGHS,
COLDS,
INFLUENZA,
ASTHMA,
RRONCHITIS,
VOICE,
THROAT, and all
LUNG COMPLAINTS.
BONmOTOJPS Irish Moss
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
BONNINGTON’S
Liver Pills.
ValualDle Cure
FOR
BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,
DIZZINESS,
TORPID LIVER.
Prized by all who have tried them
XI NGrTON’S
FOR Liver Tonic
GENERAL DEBILITY
And NERVOUS IRRITABILITY,
HE \RTBURN,
KIDNEY DISEASES,
And all Derangements of Liver.
THE
“ Plum 9
gdf
THB
‘ Plum’
(WJLKME.N who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
M Razor a trial. 1 his brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. W
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves,
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Registered
extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG Sc AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
DR.
EWER & S\iOOD
COMPOUND
MAKES NEW RICH BLOOD.
Has been proved by
Living Witnesses.
(ajF you are troubled with Sick Hkadachk, Loss of Appe-
tite, Constipation, Disorders of the Stomach, Liver
or Kidneys, take Dr. Hope’s Com-
pound. Do you feel Weak and
Debij.itated, Ambitionless and
Depressed, then take Dr. Hope’s
Compound. It completely changes
the entire system by removing all
impurities, and Invigorating the
Exhausted and Debilitated con-
stitution.
There a re n,o failures and no disap-
pointments, It acts gently', pleasantly
and quickly. For all Female Com-
plaints it has no equal on earth,
(lives igor and renewed strength to
the human system when deranged by
Overwork or Excesses.
It will cure you.
SO! D EVERYWHERE. PRICE, 3/6, BY POST, 4 •
Ia e I)r. Hope s Compound in all cases of Nervous-
ness bxhaus ion, Blood Disoiders, Liver, Kidney
and ' tomaob Troubles and regain your former health
PREPARED ONIY AT THE AUSTRALIAN APOTHECARIES' DISPtNSARY,
506 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Aunt Mary’s
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected. —
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
infants
*
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
the aged.


1
m
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HERBAL
ALFALINE REMEDIES
(Registered)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and Nerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES, BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OVER 10 YEARS,
AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
List of the Alfaline Remedies.
Vitality Restored
ALFALINE
VITALITY PILLS
Are the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Aust’a-
lian public for many years, and stood a tost which
may well be envied by all other manufacturers of
similar remedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality', Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bility, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise al-o to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaliue Liver and Kidney Pills— l- 8/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Special Double course,
43 6 ; ordinary oourse, 23,6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
and 3 -,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - Boxes, 23,6,
12 , 6/-, and 3 -.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43 6, 23/6, 12/- and 6'-.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Pat-reducing Powder- Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Injection Powder— Cures the Whites.
15'ixes, 6/-.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— Boxes, 6/- and
3 -.
Alialine Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, 1/- and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateahle. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 1,6
Alfaline Bath Tablets Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lars the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/-; p >sted, 1 6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c., &c.
Blood Purified
ALFALINE
LOCK CURE PILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonic-
This Blood Remedy has been proved to surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It >s not the usual Mercury remedy,
but a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALF ALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Lung-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint be im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rassmusskn is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices.—With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/-
With one Battery, 30/-
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
Important.
er ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
Herr RASSMUSSEN, o/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office: 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus—PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
WARNING
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia.
Herr KABsiyiuoojari »mo uii ß .uaa y" —;. —•- . Pat ions should
always obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
TR ASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
KABSMUMEI GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
, nnn nnlv be obtained from his own Offices and Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent free.
and CORRESPONDENCE HKL)) gTRI , 'fLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlet
„nnhQerved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
fc Make l deques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or to his Branches.
Selected Testimonials.
Nerves Cured
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir —I have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, I consider you are deserving of success,
wnieh I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Beker, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later: —“ The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill ; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wish Fulfilled.
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
-Yours very truly,
N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen,
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefully,
JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year of 18711 was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffness in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills ; since then I have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
Witness : Edward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness : John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
A. Valuable Free Book.
Kerr Ra,ssmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuable
information, and >< any useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality, as well aa
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will be
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of test!
monials, as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office:
547 George St., Sydney.
AND AT HIS INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
Melbourne: 150 Bourke Street
Adelaide: 151 Bundle Street
Brisbane: 160 Queen Street
NZ. : 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
West Australia: Corner Hay and William Streets, Perth.


TATTERSALLS
PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
Doncaster H.
RUN AT RANDWICK
4th APRIL.
25,000 Subscribers
at 5.
f*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
• Name
£
Address
Canterbury H.
2oth APRIL.
10,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
BANK OF VAN DIEMEN’S LAND.
Grand Lottery.
SANCTIONED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT OF TASMANIA, 57 VIC., No. 2, 1893.
SECOND DISTRIBUTION OP PROPERTIES,
Total Value, £50,000.
IN—
-200,000 Tickets at Five Shillings (os.) Each.
The SECOND DISTRIBUTION of PROPERTIES, authorised under the Lottery Act,
will include the following
MAGNIFICENT PRIZES !
Prize.
1. Orient Hotel
2. Bank Premises, Launceston
3. Bank Premises, Devonport
4. Orchard, Glenorehy
5. All Nations Hotel, Zeehan, let at
rental £220
6. Royal Exchange Hotel, Zeehan, let
at rental £2OO ...
7. Store, Orchard, etc., Huonville
8. Meadowhanks Estate
9. Federal Hotel, Zeehan ;or cash less
10 per cent.
10. Residence, 18 rooms (weatherboard,
Don ; or cash less 10 per cent.
11. Hall and Offices, Zeehan; or cash
less 10 per cent. ...
12. Orchard, Huon
13. Cottage, Launceston
14. Cottage, Hobart ...
15. 214 Acres Land, Castra
16. Cottage, Forth
17. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive
18. 74 Acres Lands, Cumberland
19. Cottage and 30 Acres Land, Ship-
wright’s Point ...
20. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive
21. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive
22. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive
23. Building Site, Bellerive
24. Cottage, Launceston
25 to 29. Five Allotments, Hobart—
.£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent.
30 to 34. Five Allotments, Hobart—
£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent.
35 to 44. Ten Allotments, Penguin—
£so each, or cash less 10 per cent.
45 and 46. Two Cottages, Don—£so
each, or cash less 10 per cent.
47 and 48. Two Cottages, Don—£so
each, or cash less 10 per cent.
Value.
£13,500
8,000
5, <OO
4,000
3,000
2.500
2,250
2,000
1.500
1,000
500
450
400
300
300
250
220
210
200
200
200
200
200
200
500
500
500
100
100
.£50,080
In the event of the total number of tickets not being SOLD, the Drawing will take place
pro rata , and a proportionate number of the alternative Cash Prizes will be included in
such drawing.
TO TATTERSALL—
Please allot me ' _shares
in the above Lottery.
Name
Address
Sydney C.
RUN AT RAND WICK
6th APRIL.
25,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
Birthday C.
25th MAT.
50,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
MELBOUKNE C.
3rd. UXT ovemtaer.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ Shares in
the above.
-
Name.
Address *
CAULFIELD C.
October.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
the above. ~ ——Shares in
xt i ( '
Is ame
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Business Announcement*
For
Infants, Children,
AND Invalids.
A Complete Food in Itself.
Recommended by the Highest Medical Authorities
throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
FOR THE DESTRUCTION
OF ALL
Insect Pests,
KRUSES
Insecticide
Is the ONLY RELIABLE Agent.
CERTAIN in ACTION. QUICK in RESULTS.
Is quite Harmless to Animal Life, and can
with perfect Safety be applied to Dogs,
Cats, Poultry, &e.
Preserves Clothing from the ravages of the Moth.
Destroys Aphis and Vine Caterpillar.
Far more effectual than Tobacco Smoke in
Ferneries.
BEWARE OF USELESS IMITATIONS,
and see that j'ou get
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE.
In TINS at Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., & 10s. each.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
529 George St
0
NEAR LIVERPOOL ST.
OILS.
Paper-hangings.
Paints.
* lists’
"rials.
A /I
'ct u
°uid,
in
gs
**>*>*.
*
O
£
V-
&
ARTISTS’
DEPOT.
Window
Decorations
Plate & Sheet Glass
Polar Refrigerating 1 Paint reduces the heat
in buildings from 40° to 50°.
H. H. Groth, Junr., & Co.
529 George Street, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
■'' . -
Mill
•i'VV
ilW\
.
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect i n
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
which so favorably
distinguishes the
present .style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearing C.B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents— J. E. N
Chisholm Lane, Sydney,
EWPOKT »!’ SON’S,
& Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
GREENBAUM’S
Cucumber Juice Skin Tonic
Softens, Whitens and Smoothes the Skin.
“Send for Samples Free.”
SOLE
19
AGENT: _A_- IMI
Hairdresser and Perfumer,
HUNTEU SJItEET, SYDNEY.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of GGOft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery ; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
mam walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
111 Try It.'
CAPILLARINE!
Posted (under cover)
to any partof Austra
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10 <>
Sole A vents:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-832 George-st,, Sydney
V/ATSON’S
NOW
M.W.fcC 0
WAYS to
TWELVE HUNDRED;
]VEa.ke Money.
jg?" Sent Post Free for 2/6.
C. SMITH & CO., 264 Uusskll St., MELBOURNE
Business Announcements.
VOLCANIC
Soda "Water
Is ABSOLUTELY PUKE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
The Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Co.,
Bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
DEBT COLLECTING.
The Victorian Debt Collecting Agency
lOt Swanston St., Melbourne,
Recovers Debts on behalf of Merc mtile firms, Professional
men, etc , by a Thoroughly Organised and Effective
System.
Highest References. Correspondence Invited.
HOLDSWOETH & CO-,
101 Swan-don Street, MELBOURNE.
WHO’S MAKING THE PACE
IN THE
Bedstead, Bedding,
AND
WOVE-WIEE MATTRASS TRADE?
Why,
Established-j gawld & SoilS, l Telephone,
30 years. | 612 George-street, Sydney, f
And the reason WHY?
Because
Healthy Bedding being absolutely essential to
cheerful health and length of years, the only quality
they manufacture is the very purest and best.
£3T For All-round Value, LAWLER’S are not to
be beaten.
S3T No ORDER too small or CONTRACT too
large.
Contents of LAWLER'S Mattrasses guaran-
teed as represented.
B3T Orders executed prompt to time.
You will never sleep soundly, and in the morn-
ing rise vigorous and refreshed, unless you procure
your Bedstead, Wire Mattrasses and Bedding
from
LAWLER & SONS,
612 George-street, SYDNEY.
R. P. MORTON,
Special Shirt Maher
And MERCER,
S T R A. 3XT D ,
195 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
-THE-
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Has been THOROUGHLY RENOVATED and
RE-FURNISHED,
And I am NOW READY to RECEIVE my
Old and New Friends.
Thos. Asclie
(late of Royal Hotel),
PROPRIETOR
rp B “ O Z O ZXT E
VVARRNAMBOOL, VICTORIA.
The Coolest Seaside Resort of An tralia.
Tkstimonul, July 2, 1895.—“ Have spent a very plea-
sant ten days at Warrnambool, and are delighted at the
town and your excellent hotel, the Ozone, where we
have received every attention. Were the qualities of the
place known, many visitors from Sydney, who now go to
Tasmania, would certainly come here.’’—Mr. and Mrs.
Denison Miller, Sydney, N.S. W.
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
BALMORAL HOUSE
Is the most centrally-situated for sight-seeing in
this delightful and bracing climate. Visitors and
invalids will find every home comfort, excellent
table and attendance. Terms—2 guineas ; 8/- per
day. Private suites, 3 guineas. Apply Manager.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Proprietor.
Arthur Millar
SALISBURY HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
Private Boarding . Establishment.
(Within Three Minutes of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATIONS Visitors. SPECIAL
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Rooms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
J3T* Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOTTGHS EXCELSIOR HOTEL
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
TANKARDS TEMPERANCE HOTEL,
Corner LONSDALE & QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. Eirst-elass Hoard and Residence £1 per
Week (single room ; 4s. per I >ay.
W. L. NEALE. Manager.
Publications
Under the patronai e of His Excellency the Gocernor
Noted for Celebrities:
TALMA & CO.,
—Artist Puotooraphbus—
-119 Swanston Street (opp. Town HallV
MELBOURNE.
Paris Panels, 20/- per doz.; Cabinets, 15/-
g
rPHE New ‘iVlbert *
Acnordeons, two full sets of
reeds, DOUBLE action, Price 21/-.
Same, superior tone and finish,
25/-. The New AUTOHARP—an>
person can play this instillment,
or vamp his own accompaniments
to thousands of songs, without
any knowledge of musiu whatever
Price, with 3 Pedals, 2 books of
tunes, &0., 15 Superior tone and
finish, with 6 Major and Minor
pedals, 25/-. Post Free. The‘PHOE-
NIX ’ Organ el te (for pieces, hymns
or dances, w orked by the handle).
Btst, strong and Sweetest Music
in the world a child can play it. Price, with 6 popular
Hines, 25-; lame size, 55 -. Only at J. ALBERT &
SON, 118 King Street, SYDNEY. Violin, mandoline,
guitar, banjo, cornet, anglo, ai d concertina catalogue for-
warded Free. NOTICE.— Messrs. J. Albert & Son are
the only mnsicsellers in Australia charging for all Two
Shilling Pieces, songs and waltzes at 1 9, post FREE.
TIENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Marttia,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell," “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2-. 6d. each. Of all Mnsicsellers, or
from the Pnhlishers, W. I’AXTON & Co., London,
and 203Swakston Struct, MELBOURNE.
Photos from Life.
Bbautudl Studies of Fk.maus Figures (draped and un-
draped), for Artists or Collectors, taken direct from
famous French and Italian LIVING models. Larue
assortment, various positions, symmetrical ft cures. Abso-
lutely true to Nature. Extpii-ite sample photo., mounted
on special bevell d card, and price-list on receipt of 12d’.
colonial stamps. Veiy unomnmon ; truly life-like.
Tlie Art Photo. Co.,
93 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE GOVERNMENT
yf
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
v DICTIONARY >
STANDARD
Send for free prospectus <
containing specimen (
pages, illustrations and
full particulars
CUC.MerriamCo. I
Publishers, 1
40 Hunter St., '
Sydney. ,
df
SECRETS OF NATURE
REVEALED.
Book of Nature.
Guide Marriage Life and Relations of the Sexes,
contains 50 engravings, full and explicit explanation of
the structure and uses of the organsof life and generation
in mankind ; Marriage, its uses and abuses, the rights
and wrongs of Marriage, intend'd especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 36 ; post, 4 Decameron, 3-. Radical Remedy
in Social Science, regulating reproduction, with hints on
matters important, necessary to be known by the married,
1/-; post, 12. Artistotle, complete Midwifery, colored
plates, 3 6; post, 4/-. “Animus of Gustave,’from the French,
1- ; post, L 3. Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, self-defence without a teacher, Is. Rabelais, 2/6 ;
post! 3/-. Mysteries Court London, 2/-; post, 26.
Florence Eaton Secrets Picture Gallery, 2-; post, 2/6-.
Piping Hot, Ru“h for Spoil, Nana, by Zola, 2/- each ;
post, 2 6 ; send for new list.
“A Fatal Sin,” hy Balzac, 16, post free. The
Devil in Sydney, or Barmaids, Baldheads, Mashers, etc.,
1/. ; by post, 1/2. Plain Hone Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free, 76; send for pamphlet giving full contents Plain
Home Talk, post free. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it
should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 12. Wonderful
Song Book, extra large, 16. Every Man his own
Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated, price 16. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” illustrated private medical book,
invaluable to all, by Dr. Lamartine, 1,6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and publio
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1,3.
Can you afford to have a large family? Read the
Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted book, “Fruits of Philo-
sophy,” 11- ; post, 1/2. “ Romance of a Fair Girl’s Bath-
room,” 16, post free. Male Generative Organs, in health
and disease, from infancy to old age, with the treatment
of all their derangements, for every man’s own private
use • illustrated by numerous engravings and colored
plates, bv Dr. Hollick, M.D. ; new revised Australian
edition, 26, post free. Ft. E A Ft , Cheap Book
Depot, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
G-eo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Reta.l Booksellers Si Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies' Work-haakets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole A<;ents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photoffraphs of English A Colonial Celebrities
A LONDON SUCCESS.
New Coon Sonj;.
OH, HONEY, WILL YOU LUB DIS COON.
Pi ice, 6d.
Also, same priice, tlie popular sons', ‘‘LOVE S VESPER
HOUR,” by lindsay L nnox, and “LOVE'S VESPER
WALTZ,” by then. Bonheur. gSt?” 1000 other SONGS,
DANCES, etc., at 3d. EACH, of all Dealeis, or from
Publishers, >V. PAXTON A <«►., iSOtf Swanston-st.,
Melbourne, and 10 Oxford Street, Loudon.
Catalogues Free.
mo
COUNTRY NEWSPAPER PRO-
PRIETORS.
FOR SALE.
A quant' ty of Humorous
Electro Illustrations, singly
or in lots. Proof-sheets and particulars on appli-
cation I ° manaGER o BULLETIN,”
21 PitlS rout, Sydney.
, Lawyers’ law : “ Everything is lawful that
is not illegal, ”
Dear Bulletin, -r-The belligerent M‘Cooey
is out after blood (Bulletin, Feb. 22) on the thesis
that female snakes swallow their young for pro-
tection. Murmurs H. J.M. —“ My mere ipse dixit
on this subject will be accepted from one end of
Australia to the other, notwithstanding the irres-
ponsible and unqualified doubts of 10,000 pro-
Well, that’s refreshing to know, at any
rate. Neither I nor any other reasonable being
would doubt Mr. M‘Gooey’s assertion that he
“ saw a female black snake swallow her young,
killed her, and actually took her young from her.”
That has been seen and done often enough. For
example, tiger snakes in Melb. Zoo. have often
dined off each other—sometimes by accident,
sometimes, perhaps, by design. A few months
back a big boa in London Zoo. swallowed its cage
mate. Again, the Oriental hamadryas absolutely
lives only on snakes. Knowing such facts, to
allow that an adult snake may swallow young
snakes is only reasonable. But the point in dis-
pute is not that “snakes swallow their young,”
which is what M‘Cooey saw, but that “ snakes
swallow their young for temporary protection ,”
which is what M‘Cooev in those very words asserts
on his ipse dixit of alleged universal Australian
belief, but which he does not prove. Next time
he sees a female black snake swallow her young,
just let him quietly watch her a while, and see
whether she allows them out again into this beau-
tiful world, or whether she does not. lam pretty
sure that he will not see those young come out
alive. They may make mamma sick, and so be
ejected dead. Otherwise they will remain inside,
and contribute their quota to the maternal nourish-
ment. There are but two places in the parent into
which the young could possibly intrude, viz., the
lungs or the stomach. In the former case, they
will die themselves and kill the mother ; in the
latter case they will be digested.—J.S.R.
The Queensland Ministerial party lately
returned from Hawaii, where the rulers of Banana-
land have been studying the sugar and Jap.
question. According to one of the Ministers,
Hawaii is almost a Japanese island ; still, the
Boodlewraithians doubt whether the Japs, will
ever invade the “higher walks and professions” of
our civilisation. Let the case of Tsururnatau
Tajisma, of Thursday Island, answer. Tsuruma-
tau, a tailor’s employe, found his master’s cheque-
book, abstracted therefrom a form, filled it up,
forged his employer’s signature, and passed the
cheque on the Japanese boarding-house keeper,
who didn’t know a word of English. Tell us
what the little brown man can’t do !
THE JAP.
He’s a merry little mannikin,
The Jap. !
You could put him in your pannikin,
The Jap. !
He can plough and reap and sow, sir ;
He can chop and chip and hoe, sir ;
He can fight, and down his foe, sir,
Can the Jap. !
He’s a queer dot of humanity,
The Jap. !
He’s a model of urbanity,
The Jap. !
And his girls in black-eyed splendor
(If you’ve cash) are just as tender
To the stranger, slim and slender,
As the Jap. !
So, it’s sound the trump all-glorious—
Hail the Jap. 1
Hail the Brownie Race victorious—
Hail the Jap. !
Let our people, sinking faster
In their well-deserved disaster,
Hail their Coming Lord and Master —
Hail the Jap. !
N.Q.
P.L.


A Bulletin correspondent:—-
Honolulu is not the best place in the world to live in.
People have to be careful about correspondence, there
being so many Govt, spies, male and female ; and letters
are very often examined. It is believed that steps are
being taken to upset the present Govt., but it is not likely
that the deposed Queen will be restored, though the
Princess (now in England) may be. Life in Honolulu is
very free and easy. The ladies go shopping in morning
wrappers, and low-necked dresses are worn in the day-time
as well as in the evening. Men and women bathe together,
and the women ride on horseback straddle-wise. They
bike in knickers, and most of them dance the “ Hoola”
a very improper dance which would make a stage-
manager’s fortune. Everybody who is anybody in Hono-
lulu goes to spend holidays in Maoriland. People simply
rave about Maoriland. They don’t think so much of Aus-
tralia, and their name for all Australians is “Sydney
Ducks.” Offenders against the Government are treated
very summarily—they are simply packed off per first boat.
If a man owes money his passport is stopped ; then “ pow”
(good-bye) to his departure ! No debtors abscond from
Honolulu. The great drawback to life in Honolulu
is the number of lepers. One has to be very careful about
letting children play together. The number of white
people who have leprosy is astonishing - . It shows on them
in no time, and then they are sent to Molokai. The
Chinese are not so much dreaded by the whites as the
natives, who always try and hide the disease, and will kiss
and hug the patient to the last. The Chinese give lepers
up at the first symptom—and don’t they know the symp-
toms well! There is an old lady living here with a half-
white daughter-in-law, and the Chinese laundry has
refused to take in the washing already, though the doctors
are not certain that she is suffering from leprosy. Three
out of four are agreed that it is so, but one says “No,’
and she escapes for the present. Every month she is
examined, and soon, probably, she will go to Molokai.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending vver a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
quyer of all other Australian gems.*
Probably the most ludicrous spectacle in
Australia is a meeting of Melbourne City Coun-
cil. After the aldermen and councillors have
assembled, a gorgeous individual waving a long
black, silver-headed stick enters and yells out—
“ His Worship the Mayor ! ’’ whereupon all arise
and assume a servile attitude until the personage
announced strolls in as impressively as the huge
’possum-rug in which he is clad and the heavy
gold chain pressing on his shoulders will allow.
Then common persons are permitted to sit down
again, and the Town-clerk, dressed in black satin
knickerbockers, buckle shoes, a lace tie of several
feet diameter, and a gigantic cauliflower - like
white wig, which harmonises peculiarly with a
red, straggly beard, proceeds to read the busi-
ness menu. And not only at the meetings is the
comic-opera aspect of the M.C.C. observable.
Every officer has his prescribed uniform, which he
wears during work hours, down to the minor
inspector of nuisances and the dog-chasers, who
pursue their avocation in a costume like unto that
of a British admiral.
To Cure Sore Throats
WOUNDS, BURNS, SORES, and all DISCHARGES, and for purifying drinking
0 .. . „ „ water, use CONDY’S FLUID.
bold by all Chemists. Book of directions on every bottle. Condy & Mitchell, of
London, England, are the sole makers. Insist on buying “CON ■ y-4 Ft .TTtj>.”
Use “Condy’s Fluid.”
THE PREMIER HOTEL OF AUSTRALIA-
-0^
xJi R
/
V
THE AUSTRALIA."
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
CHARGES :
(Per Day)
rnclusive of all Meals and Attendance.
SINGLE BOOMS—
Special Rates to Permanent Boarders
from
&3 10/- PER WEEK.
Extract from Max O'Rett's Book
of Impressions on the Colonies
“Sydney has as much right to be
proud of this hotel as her harbor
/ Fir up roof Throughout.
[excellent cuisine
)
Hot and Cold Water in
every Room.
Lighted throughout by
Electricity. S
Atcherley & Dawson
By Special Appointment
to their Excellencies,
'Viscount HAMPDEN.
Sir R. W. DUFF.
Tub Earl of JERSEY.
Lord CARRINGTON,
and
.Lord HOPETOUN.
Choice “ GLOBE ” TEAS.
Awarded EIKST PRIZE and Special SILVER MEDAL
at the METROPOLITAN SHOW, 1895. These Teas
also gained the same distinction in Queensland.
These unrivalled TEAS are supplied to Consumers Direct at Lowest Rates. Samples Gratis.
Delivered FREE at any Town in the Colony.
ALL GRADES AND VARIETIES OF TEA KEPT IN STOCK.
257 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY— also at MELBOURNE i BRISBANE.
PRO CL AM ATIOTJ.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO CIGARETTE SMOKERS.
WE keg to inform our customers and cigarette smokers generally that the American Tobacco Co.,
Ltd., of N.S.W., who control the sale of cigarettes known under the brands of “Allen and
Ginter’s Straight-cut No. 1,” “Cameo” and “ Old Judge,” and who manufacture the colonial-made
cigarettes called “ Pure Gold ” and “ Dixon’s No. 1,” have given us official notice that they will not
supply us with any of their American-made cigarettes unless we agree to relinquish the agency held by
us for New South Wales for the world-renowned English firm of W. D. and H. 0. WILLS, Limited,
the manufacturers of those popular high-class cigarettes known as
“ TIHIIR-lEIE CASTLES 77 and “ CAPSTALT.”
y We have declined to conform with this request, as we feel it would not be to the nterest of
eigarette smokers in New South Wales to allow the American Tobacco Co., Limited, to monopolise
the whole of the cigarette trade. We, therefore, appeal to cigarette smokers to try the celebrated
Mills’ “Three Castles” and “Capstan” Cigarettes,
And compare their quality with that of any other. We are confident that their verdict will be in
favor of the
“Three Castles” and “ Capstan.” Cigarettes,
And by smoking these they will prevent any one Company from attempting to dictate what people
should or should not smoke.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO. [Agents for W. D. and H. 0. WILLS, Ltd.)
Dr. Keith’s
PRIZE MIEIDA.L
Baking 1 Powder
Is the ±~teal Thing.
TRY IT.
AND HAVE SOME GENUINE BAKING POWDER EOR A CHANGE. -®»
Gillespies flaked “ Grainea
Is the Most Perfect PORRIDGE POOD ever Invented.
“Worth a Chiinea a Bose.”
—FOR ALL—
Bilious & Nervous Disorders
SUCH AS
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver & Female Ailments.
LARGEST SALE OF ANY PATENT MEDICINE IN THE WORLD,
jq g-m* g Q O O 3E3 O3C O S "52T" ©Qi 1y•
Beecham’s Cough Pills
STAND UNRIVALLED FOR
Coughs, Asthma, Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, etc.
In Boxes, 9|d., Is. 1 Id., and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions
The Is. l|d. Box contains 56 Pills.
Beeeham’s Tooth Paste
RECOAIMKNDS ITSELF. It is Efficacious, Economical,
Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and is a Reliable,
and Pleasant Dentifrice.
In Collapsible Tubes, of all Druggists, One Shilling 1 .
PREPARED ONLY BY THE PROPRIETOR,
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
pERDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Hose, Eureka Hose, Canvas Hose,
FOR
Gardens, Brewers, Steam, Suction,
Etc., Etc.
Tennis Balls, Backets, Shoes, &c.
ILLUSTRATED LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
270 George Street:, SYDNEY.
FROZEN MEAT EXPORT.
Messrs. BERGL & BRABBIN have the honor to inform the pastoralists of Queensland that
they are now able to offer the very best facilities for them to send their surplus stock home. They
can have their stock treated on owners’ account, either at Bowen or Gladstone, and disposed of to
very best possible advantage in England by the SAME FIRM. If treated at any of the other works,
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin will be most happy to take charge of their shipments on arrival in London,
and are sure that their charges, and especially the PERSONAL attention given to each consignment
will give satisfaction. For full particulars apply
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin,
LONDON, LIVERPOOL, etc., ENGLAND. SYDNEY, BOWEN, GLADSTONE.
gdf
H. HILLIER, Manufacturer & Importer,
135 & 137 Sussex-stveet, Sydney.
The Beat and Cheapest House in the Colony for Vehicles, Saddlery & Harness.
ELEPTIC SPRING SULKIES (as shown), £7 15s.
SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 395. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, £6 10s,
AMERICAN SULKIES, 955.
Send for a Catalogue and secure the Bargains. All Saddles Made equal to Ordered Work.
Price from 3*.ts. 6d., complete.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
■•V
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D’HONHEUR.
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Borsdorff & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
20 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
and at
ela,i cl © & Sobart.
Trade Mark.
at.
vA
"T.
if)
P.D
5Z
%
♦


Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Great Emporium.
The Colossal and Artistic Show of Australasia.
Universally Renowned as the Great English Cash Trading Firm.
In Full Swing 1 under the Freetrade Banner of New South Wales.
“ Cash is the life the crown of trade, for all that’s good, for all that’s made. Then, huy for cash, all who would share cheapest and best for look and wear.
Its voice is loudest ’midst the throng ; its music grandest in the song ; its banner highest up the hill; its motto “ Upward, onward still.
The Comprehensive Character, the Elegance, Variety, and Extent of Our Stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, DIAMONDS, SILVERWARE, and
SPECIALTIES have never been approached. Our Establishment is a complete Constellation of Brilliancy, and a Panorama of Artistic Show.
Prices saving to every Purchaser from Six to Eight Shillings in the Pound.
Watches at Freetrade Prices.
noma aTlf i .£3 10s Ladies’ and Gent’s. One of these will wear out a dozen of ordinary make. Keyless ditto, =£4 4s,
Grold Jewellery at Freetrade Prices.
„ . K dA 10= a* Pam Gold Brooches 10s 6d to 30s Highest grades, 30s to £lO, thousands to select from, all the very pick of London, latest designs ; Gold
Elegant Gold Brooches, all prices, 5s 6d t<3 12s . Looge Chai ’ n Curb Bangles, any price, from 30s to £8 10s ; Ladies’ Gem Rings, in new designs, from 10s 6d to £5 ; Wedding and
Bangles and Bracelets, every Pendants and Neck Chains, elegant variety, from 4s 6d to 255; Locket ditto, Long Muff Chains, Pencil Cases, Fob Chains, Sovereign Purses, Links,
in variety and display, and at prices to suit every purchaser. .
Diamonds at Freetrade Prices.
„ , _,, f nnW T n dW Half-Hoop Rings in va-iety and value, no equal prices, £5 5s to £5O ; Gent.’s Single-stone ditto, £4 4s to £100; Stars, Tiaras, Necklets,
The Whitest and Brightest of theSd Bracelets, from £lO to £100; Flies, Crescents, Sprays, Heart Pendants, etc., the finest assortment in Australasia.
Pins, and btuds at all prices , lyitununu.
inns, anil otuuo ,
Silverware at Freetrade Prices.
.. , . xp. Thousand Articles to select from. Toilet Brushes, Hand Mirrors, Scent and Salt Bottles, Powder Boxes, Trinket B^xes,
Everything that, is New just landed ex mml steamers. Candlesticks, Napkin Rings, Button Hooks, Glove Stretchers, Thimbles, Match Boxes, etc. Visit our Establishment, outside or
on exhibit -PAR EXCELLENCE.
inside, ana auxw -
Electro-plate at Freetrade Prices.
" n A awa v miles ahead of all competitors. The Novelty, Variety and C
1 ~ . ~ 0 -u OO A all prmvnctitors The Novelty, Variety and Character of our Stock embrace everything worth looking for, our London
In this Department for value we stand alone, ™B.ht away hdf 11 P galoong wm bring undei . the not ice of those who so favo ■us hundreds upon hundreds of New Elegant Articles of
House securing for us the very pick of every 20s mostsuitabie for presents la this Department our Prices will be found in many instances one-half that usually cha-ged.
the very best make at all prices trom os oa to ,
to view
e ytliiiig
ie verv best make at all prices irorn os ou w -
.. . Whether vou live in New South Wales or otherwise, it will pay you to visit us, and also interest you
If you are a Buyer of anything in th ? a kovelme de voted to our line of business, containing the Grandest Exhibition and Variety of Stock ever b.ought together. Everything New, E\
am ....-... . + . . . . -
Illustrated Pamphlet, Post Free. Goods Forwarded (Duty and Carnage Paid) to any part of Australasia.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 (U or a e‘Street, and Strand , Sydney, New South Wales.
A Patent Boot-stretcher.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
E .?f S i NG i Park, Sydney, I was in agony,
and felt thankful to share half a seat with a man—
to all appearances an unemployed of the common
type.
“ Yer new crabs —I mean boots—are troublin’
ye, boss, I see. Well, I used to suffer in that way
till I found out a plan o’ me own.”
On first hearing his voice, I expected the usual
dreadful tale about “ not a stroke o’ work these
four months,” and “the wife and kids are up
country with her people, and I’m battling round
till something turns up. ”
To my agreeable surprise, he avoided the sorrow-
ful recital which generally precedes the request
for a “sprat to get a feed,” and actually alluded
to a remedy for my bane—a big corn and rather
small boot. On my muttering something about the
advantage of knowing such a plan, he continued :
“ The working men of this country are mugs.
When cash and graft was plentiful, a few years
ago, you’d see ’em going to the boot-shops and
buyin’ a pair, and then carrying ’em home under
their arms. On the way home they’d step into a
pub. and have a few drinks, and maybe get on a
regular tank, and land home, late at night or next
morning, without the boots. 1 o.ioe lost a suit of
colonial tweed in that way —left it on the pub.
seat, and was told next day that a front bencher
walked off with it after I left and forgot it. It’s
a m .g’s game, that.”
I agreed with him. He resumed :
“ Of course, when a fellow is a worse mug than
usual, he begins to learn sense. Ever after, when
I bought clothes or new crabs, I wore ’em right
out of the shop. Even with pants I got the shop-
man to let me slip ’em on. Then I left the shop,
wearing the new things, and carried the old ones,
when they were worth carrying. Even if I got on
a tank, and missed ’em, I didn’t feel the loss, for
I had the new ones with me.”
This was all interesting in its way, but I won-
dered how it affected my corn and new boots.
However, I listened.
“If you wear new crabs—l mean boots—out of
the shop, instead of having ’em wrapped up,
there’s several points gained. The kiddie in the
shop with his shoehorn and chalk manages to
squeeze ’em on right enough, but, if you slip ’em
off, won’t you have trouble getting ’em on again?
“ Why, there was big Mick Berrigan, the
navvy; when he was graftin’ up at the Prospect
dam he stuck-up to a girl, and, though he wore
bluchers all his life, he buys a pair of elastic sides.
Wasn’t there war next Sunday, when Mick tried
to get ’em on ? He tugged, himself and his mates,
and then all the other boys had a pull as they
went to mass ; but ’twas no use. They got the
left on, but, drag and pull as they would, Mick’s
right hoof couldn’t get into the other elastic boot.”
He laughed and chuckled as if the remembrance
of the tug-of-war between Mick Berrigan’s hoofs
and a few score big Irishmen was a high-class
comedy. “ Now, after the people in the shop got
my new boots on, I never took ’em off again until
they were well stretched. How did I manage ?
Simple enough When I’d get the new ones on,
I’d not be fooi enough to take ’em off I’d wear
’em and leave the old ones, if they were wcr.h
carrying, at some pub. where I was, known —
wrapped in paper, of course. Then I’d do, as I
always did on Saturdays while I had graft, get
jolly well drunk. Saturday night I’d sleep with
my boots on, of course. Next day I’d manage to
keep up the spree and, may be, s’eep in my boots
Sunday night, too. On Monday morning
they d be well stretched, especially if I’d had a
fight with a bit of kicking in it. Of course, they’d
pinch me all the time, the same as you’ve been
pinched now, but, if lie’s got enough beer, a chap
doesn’t feel these things.”
W hile I was considering whether my agony
could be relieved in. that way, he muttered :
“A rum thing happened me once. One Satur-
day I bought a new pair of boots, put ’em on
before I left the shop, and then went on the spree.
Though a bit top-heavy, I remember lying down
in Hyde Park, opposite the Museum, for a snooze.
After 12, I woke with one of my legs through the
railings at the Market-street end, and a fellow
tugging at my boot. ’Twas one of the Park
prowlers. In trying to get my boots off he’d
pulled me across the Park and then jammed my
legs through the rails. But ’twas no use. I wore
them boots for eight months. Wish I had a pair
like ’em now.”
V.
A recent number of London Sketch gave
a picture of an unnamed lady and gentleman on
horseback in an Australian bush-scene, the lady
being in “ rational ” costume and astride her
horse. They are both students, son and daughter
of Edwin Geach, the big Prahran draper. Another
son was sometime manager for Maggie Moore.
On New r Year’s Day, 1869, sailed from
Portland, Maine (U.S.A.), with a cargo of flour,
the schooner Harriet, Australia bound, and was
never seen again. The mystery has just been
cleared up by a bottle found near Cape Elizabeth,
in the same State : “ 2nd Jan., ’69. We are in a
gale of wind and snowstorm. We are sinking.
Our vessel is the schooner Harriet, bound to
North Sydney from Portland, consigned to John
Moore. (Signed) Captain William Lewis.” John
Moore was then a leading Sydney merchant, and
a brother of his was one of the Harriet’s crew of
five hands. Six-and-twenty years has that bottled
message from the dead been floating about the
ocean.
’Murkan journalism sank to the lowest
depth of sensational grovel in dealing.with the
Duke of Marlborough’s arrest for furious bike-
riding. The New York Recorder published on
one page a picture of the duke being chased by a
policeman, and on the next a portrait of the blessed
policeman in question. Also, there were four
columns of narrative. The dook, it seems, “ did
not wear a cycling costume, but a business suit of
an ecru shade, with the regulation steel bands
around his ankles to prevent his trousers from
catching in the gearing. On his head was the
same white Fedora hat with pink band which he
wore on the coaching trip with O.H.P. Belmont.”
When taken to the watch-house and questioned in
the usual way, Marlborough’s indignation was
awful to contemplate—
“ Where were you born ?” inquired the roundsman, as
blandly as he could. “ England ! ” fairly shouted the
Duke, shaking with anger, “a country where such an
outrageous proceeding would not be tolerated.” “Very
likely,” replied the roundsman. “ But now tell me what
your business is ? ”
This broke up the noble prisoner altogether. He
sank back into the arms of a detective, murmuring
“ Business ! did you ever hear of a duke trying to
earn his own living ? ” At least, that’s what he
ought to have said, but didn’t. His Grace’s actual
reply was : “ What insults you heap upon me !
I’m not in business.”
Unheroic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ If there should be a wreck ! ” she murmured,
with the fanciful sentiment noticeable in new-
made brides.
Her husband leaned his elbow on the rail of the
steamer. “ Why fancy it, dearest ! ”
“Oh! I don’t know,” she said, playfully
petulant; “ it would be so awful; the crowded
deck, the women and children getting the first
chance, the men standing back. Why should
women get the first chance ? But I wouldn’t
go,” smiting the rail with a pretty enthusiasm;
“I’d stay with you, dear; we’d go down
together ! ”
Twilight deepened as the shore faded from sight.
The fair-haired woman who had stood, with face
averted, near enough to overhear this dialogue,
shivered slightly in the cooling air. Little need
for her to turn aside ; the young couple were too
intent to notice her who had been a friend of both
in other days. Friend ! Acquaintance, rather,
for she did not deceive herself. There had been
no wrong done her ; simply, two women had loved
the one man, and she, the unsuccessful, was
doomed to meet him on this, his marriage-day,
and to be a constant witness of his honeymoon
happiness.
Again she shivered as she turned to go.
♦ » » ♦
* ‘ Mabel ? My wife ? Where is she ? Miss
Seymour, is that you ? ”
He did not wonder at her presence, hitherto un-
known, on board the Niobe ; this was not the time
for small surprises.
“ She is safe ; she has gone in the first boat.”
“Thank God!” he answered, but a thrill of
disappointment mingled with his relief.
The woman looked at him ; she could reason
even in that hour "of breaking spars and wave-
swept decks. She did not tell him how his wife
had clung to her, refusing safety till assured that
her husband would be leaving in the next boat.
That was false, there would be no next boat' for
him, nor for the majority of the men. She had
feared that the wife would discover this, would
force her way back to her husband to die with
him, while she, the unloved, was sent away to
safety and wretchedness. That danger was over
now ; the wife’s face had melted in the darkness
between cloud and surf, she herself had torn away
from a kindly grasp that would have swung her
into the next boat, had pushed forw’ard a pale-
faced lad to take her place, had staggered across
the slippery deck to find the man she loved.
“ How brave ! how unselfish you are! ” He put
his arm round her to steady her in the wind;
“How can I thank you for taking care of my little
Mabel ? ” He spoke of her as of a child.
For the woman there was no reality in this
awful scene; no cold, no stinging spray; the night,
the waves, the screams of women, were all mere
stage accessories to the part which she was playing.
For he was hers ; he would never belong to the
other woman now. He would have fought for her
safety as she had fought for his wife’s.; but that
danger was over. The last boat had gone ; the
deck was heaving and splitting beneath them ; the
wind rang wedding - bells for her among the
shrouds.
“He married her this morning, but he marries
me to-night, ” she thought as she pressed closer to
him, and smiled to think of the deceived wife fai
away.
The sea rushed down on them. She buried hei
face on his breast and clasped him close ; she had
heard that such a grip does not loosen with death.
When the newspapers told the story oi
the wreck of the Niobe, there were thrilling para-
graphs about the woman who had abandoned
her place in the boat to a 16-year-old lad. None
knew it was selfishness, not heroism, that sent her
down into the green depths to sleep in her lover’s
arms for ever.
Maoriland.
C. CLYDE.
The proprietor of a Melb. Face-Massage
Parlor shows a photo, of its luxury. He chiefly
moulds noses.
When the King of Portugal—who is
addicted to promiscuous osculation—visited Eng-
land, the Prince of Wales is said to have been
greatly troubled in mind with regard to the way
in which his mother would receive the Royal
Dago’s salute—probably believing that it would
savor strongly of garlic. But fat Carlos got there
all the same with a loud smack on the cheek of
Her Gracious.
An enquiry into the cause of a Tas. fire
elicited a unique swear. One witness, a lady,
averred that on a certain date she saw a young
woman pass along the road in a trap in company
with her father ; she knew father and daughter
very well, as they had been neighbors of hers for
years. Witness swore earnestly that the man was
dressed in a dark tweed coat and black hat —was,
in fact, rigged up in his Sunday clothes, but that
she had not noticed what the lady wore /
The Superintendent of Parramatta Lunatic
Asylum is reported to have said that, for some
reason unknown to him, a great number of Vic-
torian idiots are under his charge.
Sternly the Superintendent spake—
The knees of the idiot began to shake
“ Why did you come to New South Wale*,
The land of Windeyers, gibbets, and gaols ?
The Victorian imbecile made reply—
“ I am an idiot, sir—that is why.”
It turns out, however, that it was the Supt. of the
Old Men’s Asylum who made the remark. But
the difference is not worth killing a par. about.
“Brumby,” the derivation of which has
apparently defied all the etymologists, is de-
rived, writes a Bulletin correspondent, from
Baramba, the name of a creek and station in the
Burnett district of Queensland. In the early 40’s
this country was taken up by a Paddy Lennon as
a horse-breeding station, with the view of supply-
ing the Eastern markets. The station was
formed, and a choice lot of mares with three
or four stallions were sent to stock the place.
This, at the time, was probably the limit of civil-
isation, such as it was, and though the station
flourished for a year or so, the usual troubles set
in—shortness of cash, troublesome niggers, and
finally the death of Lennon himself, the result
being the total abandonment of the station and
most of the stock. All of which occurred within
two or three years. It was from the remnants of
this stud that the wild horses on the Lower Bur-
nett and the head of the Brisbane descended from
being the “ Baramba horses,” got by easy stages to
be called “Barambas,” and finally “Brumbies.”
The term was originally local, but it gradually
drove out local names of other districts, such as
“warrigals,” &c.


LIPP PIANOS.
VICTOR PIANOS.
BRINSMEAD PIANOS.
STEINWAY PIANOS.
UEBEL ax i) LEICHLEITER
PIANOS.
I—MB
These are Names that are Synonymous with
Reliability!
[F YOU WANT A PIANO
mif Vf— E**—~MM- rT—KT-- -
Superiority!
Artistic
DO NOT DECSD till you have written to us.
ii—'s.
fife
ra
V/E MAKE IT EASY t. dd
with us wherever you live. We
take Old Pianos in Exchange.
We guarantee to give satisfaction.
Our prices are most reasonable for
STRICTLY FIRST-CLASS PIANOS.
w o will send oar 50-page Catalogue
giving valuable information.
t;;]3 will save you from loss and
disappointment.
We are Sole Agents for all the best
makers—Stein way, Lipp, Brinsmead,
Erard, Feuricli, Ecke, Gors & Kallmann,
Uebel & Leichleiter, The “ Victor,” The
Belling, and others, Also for ESTEY
ORGANS & Boosey’s Band Instruments.
WE SELL ON TIME PAYMENT.
t/MJTSy,
Tstablished ,a S 3
338 CEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
Excellence!
No Better Value in the 'World !
w. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
Guarantee it.
INSPECTION AND COMPARISON INVITED
W.H. Paling- & Co., Ltd. ,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paling’s XMAS MUSICAL ANNUAL con
taming ‘‘ Molly Riley O” and other gems, i:
- splendid Shilling’s worth. Send for a copy
.V' '■ '. . V
Wjg&.&c.
~ mr
, ~- ■ ... .
ls*i!**?n amewhich we
&sk Vcm fo r^meiriper
id purchase
m Orftan.or Fiano
x *
Advice to a Young Poet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Sir, —I came across your verses
In Smith’s Imperial Book Bazaar,
Priced at the coin that one disburses
For shandies at a public bar ;
And, since the come-down’s rather hard on
A youngster with your gift for song,
I thought a critic you might pardon
Who mildly hinted what was wrong.
I found a gloomy wish to bicker
With all that Fortune sent your way,
And several poems praising liquor,
And some attempting to be “gay ”;
I found the bush with varying features,
I found the stars, I found the sun ;
But, as for simple human creatures,
I couldn’t find a single one.
You want to know what men are doing,
And where they're going, and why they go ;
In every head there’s something brewing,
It’s worth a poet’s while to know.
You want to feel it all, and love it—
The live, wide world of common use ;
Blindly t:> stretch your neck above it
Is but to own yourself a goose.
“ The poet in a golden climate
Was born with golden stars above,”
But even suns and stars to rhyme at
Aren’t what a healthy man can love:
Moon-vapor.ngs couched in style precisian
Are deadlier than mirage in drought ;
The lark may sing above our vision—
His nest is what he sings about.
But when poor Pegasus, quite dizzy
With breathing air so cold and thin,
Drops down to find his owner busy
At eulogising brands of gin :
When day by day the sky you study,
Young cynic, from an empty cask,
And all the stars of heaven vow ruddy
To decorate your brandy-flask :
Then, poet, drop that “ e ” misleading
(’Tis coward-like the truth to blink);
Adopt for shame the truer reading
“ Pot,” vice Poet drowned in drink.
Better to know yourself a dumb thing
Than so disgrace the songster clan ;
A poet is a man plus something,
But, first and foremost, he’s a man.
Here’s a whole continent to sing for,
Worlds to explain that still are dumb ;
What fool would think of taking wing for
A heaven of moons, a hell of rum ?
Leave phantoms of your own creation,
Sing life and work, sing clear and true :
So yet, some day, a new-born nation
May hail her laureate—whom but you !
L. D.
It may interest lovers of “ dairy-fed pork
to learn that a deal of the pork and bacon from
the farms between Wagga and Narandera is
mostly fed on the bodies and entrails of kangaroos,
wallabies and sheep that have died from natural
causes.
Skinflint.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old man was chipping his po ato-patch. From
time to time he cast an anxious eye towards a weak
point in the log-rail fence.
“ Damn those goats!” he exclaimed, as, flourish-
ing his hoe for the fourth time, he rushed towards
the timber where a white nanny was trying to
creep through. The goat backed off and regarded
her master curiously. He was bent and wizened,
his spine shrunken with age, his skin the regula-
tion black-and-tan of the settler, on his scanty
grey hair an old hat, and over his back and down
to his knees a shirt of flour-bags, as was plainly
denoted by the blue lettering across the front,
“ Hand’s Patent Roller.” This was all his costume.
When the goat had taken a good look at him,
she raised her nose superciliously and devoted all
further attention to an empty jam-tin. The old
man returned, grumbling, to his chipping.
“ Hang them goats, I say ; they are more bother
than they are worth. I have mended that fence a
score of times, and yet they get in—l believe they
would climb a house. ”
Presently he looked up again. It was not the
goats he saw this time, but a man coining along
the road.
“ Now I’ve got to dress. Here comes Bates.”
The old man walked towards a quince-bush, and
from under its shade drew out a pair of trousers,
which he carefully surveyed and put on.
“ There are some extravagant, careless people
that fold their clothes; not me ! I know better
than that. A fold is the first part of a
break. When you fold you wear. Do you
think I could have kept these pants twelve years,
and have them as good as new, if I had folded
them up ? People are just mad for waste, that’s
what they are.” He stood talking to himself till
Bates came up, not daring to go on with his hoe-
ing lest he should soil the trousers.
“ Good day, Mr. Ashton.”
“Good day, Bates.”
“ I just called round about a little trouble I am
in. You’ve heard, perhaps, that Thompson, the
storekeeper, has assigned his estate ? ”
“ Yes ; I’ve heard, and it’s only what he might
expect, after trusting the pack of lazy, extravagant
people there are about here. ”
“ Well ! The fact of the matter is, I’m a bit
behind with him ; Al 5 or so. He would never
have troubled me till I sold the corn, but this
assignment-man threatens to sell me right off,
lock, stock, and barrel, if I don’t pay up at once.
So I come to you, thinking you might oblige a
neighbor for once.”
“ Fifteen pounds ! Why, man alive, where do
you think I could get all that money ? It’s you
that ought to be rich, the way you live.”
“ I live hard enough, God knows.”
“They tell me you have tea and bread and
butter on the table for every meal.”
“ Well! What of that ? ”
“Don’t they cost money? Tea, say sixpence a
week—that’s twenty-six shillings a year ; besides
the bread and butter. Why, man, you are going
to ruin as fast as extravagance can take you. ”
“ But a man must eat and drink.”
“What’s to stop you? Look at me. Am I
starved? You have p<>tatoe.s, corn, and milk;
that is what I live on. I don’t spend a penny. I
owe no .£l5. Fifteen pounds, indeed—just buried
down your inside, and then you expect me to help
you; but, as it happans, 1 ha.ouot got «h» money.
You must go begging, Mr. Bates, to some one
with less sense and more cash than .
Bates walked off without another word,
and the old man, having seen him safely out of
sight, replaced his trousers under the quince-ousn
and resumed his chipping. •
But fate was against his working that day—the
form of another traveller appeared in the distance.
Again the hoe was put down and the trousers
put on. . .
“ Can you give a poor devil the price of a meal,
boss? I have not had a bite to-day.”
“Well I never! What next ! You ask me for
money—you who go flashing about with a coat and
boots on. Perhaps you’d like me to provide you
with a carriage to ride in ? ”
“ What’s the harm in a coat and boots, anyhow ?
Do you want a man to go naked ?”
“ What’s the harm ' Why, they cost money,
money—every stepyxm take il’money gone. The
leather wears out then you must spenc money to
mend the boots. The coat wears c)ut, and tiiere^ is
more money gone. It s jus pn y
extravagance, that s what it is, and 1 have no
patience with the lot of you.
The swagman looked surly and sullen. An evl
scowl was on his face as he walked off. At a bend
in the road he promptly camped after opening out
a substantial wallet of food.
Before the old man had finished hilling his
potato-row a voice startled him so that he hurried
to hide himself behind the growing corn.
“Skinflint! Skinflint ! Starves his belly to save
his pennies. Skinflint ! Skinflint ! ’
He peered through the corn and over the fence,
and saw a pair of knickerbockers and bare legs
disappearing in the dust.
“ That’s Bates’s boy, the impudent young rascal;
it shows his bringing up. I’ll get a savage dog and
set it loose on them. No, I won t though—a dog
would want meat, and that costs money. 11l
words cost me nothing. Let them say what they
like, the silly fools. #
It was already dark when he had finished milk-
ing his goats, and entered the hut. He lit no
candle, but stirred up the fire, putting on dry
twigs from time to time, and so gave a flickering,
uncertain light to the room. e'rlld
stone from the chimney-wall, and took out tenderly
a heavy big. He carefully untied it, and then, by
the daLnl light he slowfy counted over the gold
pmces contame
money,” lie said to himself-“ who put it on their
backs and down their stomachs, and then wonder
it is gone! Fools! Fools! What’s the good of
money unless you can look at it and keep it?
What’s the good of money when you have given it
to some one else? Where should I have been to-
day, if I had not been careful and saving? On
the roads, like that tramp, no doubt. What’s
i »
In a moment the old man had covered the light
of the fire with ashes so that the room was in
gloom. A noise had startled him, as of someone
moving outside the hut. In the darkness he re-
placed the bag and stone and sat still and listened.
He could hear loud, regular breathing.
He trembled, his body quaked, i here was a
loud knock on the door.
“ Who’s there ? ” cried the old man.
“ I want a match,” a coarse voice replied.
“ I don’t open my door after dark.”
“ Then I’ll open it for you, you mean old scoun-
drel ! ” ,
With a orash, the door was forced in ; someone
entered, closed the door, and, feeling about in the
darkness, dragged the first heavy piece of furni-
ture against it to keep it fast. Then heavy steps
came across the floor towards the fire, which was
quickly stirred into a flame.
The old man crouched in the chimney-corner
speechless, his eyes well open, staring, the lower
jaw fallen, a sickly-yellow pallor on his wrinkled
face. His gaze was riveted on the intruder, a
rough, powerful man, whose face was blackened
with charcoal and mud.
“Now, you old grab-all, I’ve got yer. Shell
out ! ” The speaker laughed a big, resounding
laugh, every note of which made the old man
shiver.
“ I’m a poor man ; I’ve got nothing.
“ Now, none of that—l just see yer through ther
slabs countin’ out ther gilt. Now, I want ther lot.
Don’t yer make no error, yer miserable old var-
mint—the lot! ”
The old man answered nothing, but, shrinking
together like a dog, he whined dolefully. With-
out further words, the robber seized him by the
throat, shook him, and pinned him to the wall.
“ Now, answer straight, and smart about it.”
The old man’s eyes protruded, his arms moved
up and down spasmodically, his legs dangled be-
neath him.
“ I won’t ! ” he gasped.
“Yer won’t, won’t yer ! I’ll teach yer to act
the goat with me ! ” and the hand was pressed
tighter, so that the old man’s face grew red, then
purple, and ghastly to look on in the dancing light.
“Now, no more of this shinanekin. I tell yer
straight, I takes yer money or yer life.” _
The old man’s breath came in gulps, his tongue
hung but, he looked dying—nearly dead ; he could
not speak till the grip about his throat was slightly
loosened, and, in feeble, intermittent syllables, he
murmured —
“ Then—take —my —life ! ”
N.S.W
HENRY FLECHER.
Rockefeller, American oil king, has donated
to Chicago University 7,000,G00d015. (£1,520,000).
That very self-satisfied person, Cornelius
J. Ham, cried his patriotism aloud to the Vic.
Leg. Council the other day, and was rewarded
with a great burst of applause. The one thing
that Ham lives for now, it seems, is Federation.
He has abandoned all hope, probably, of, witness-
ing a boom revival in the paper price of real
estate, and so the declining years of his valuable
career are to be employed in welding the Austra-
lian “ colonies ” into one great nation. Hear
Ham : “ He would go down on his knees to honor-
able members, or walk 100 miles if, by so doing,
he could secure Federation. Indeed, he would
rather lose his ri'jht hand than lose Federation.”
C. J. Ham, like most other Councillors, is fully
persuaded that if Federation doesn’t come in his
time, with his assistance, it will drift beyond the
limits of possibility and be lost to the world.
Gents : You have heard of our Pound
Suits ? Well, order one. Send your size along,
and we will send the suit, securely packed,
to any part of New South Wales for One
Pound. No extra for postage or carriage.
Address your letters to Hordern Brothers, 203,
205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney


NERVOUS DEBILITY
Resulting from Impoverished Blood,
Cured by the Use of
Ayers Sarsaparilla.
V-M-
Bead the following remarkable testimony of Mrs. M. A. Helleur, of
Sussex St., North Adelaide, So. Australia, whose portrait is given above:
“Some years ago, I suffered very severely from soreness and general
weakness of the system, being so badly affected that I feared even to go
from one room to another, on account of the strange objects that appeared
to nit before me. My doctor, after treating me for some time, without
any benefit, at last recommended me to try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. I took
his advice, and am pleased to say that the effect was really wonderful.
Vigour was restored to my system, my nerves were strengthened, my spirits
brightened, and I was enabled to return to my usual occupations. I might
sa\ that several of my friends and relatives have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
with like beneficial results. I believe it to be the best health-restorer
that has ever been offered to the suffering masses.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
With Highest Awards at the World’s Great Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS, for Biliousness and Indigestion
Tales of the Austral Tropics
PRICE, Is. ... per POST, Is. 3d.
00\
0
BY
mmOOMTOBACCOC 0 ,
CLEVELAND STREET SYDNEY
Semper Eadem” Which, literally translated, means “ALWAYS THE SAME:.
THIS IS WHY
The “LION” BRAND.
1 defy all
fo
approach
if.
OFFICES Cl/UUNCCg?
K£Mt§ t
r
m
P
»
Lion
*nd
/
s-
JS
Of Confectionery is so popular.
ONLY THE FINEST INGREDIENTS USED. THEY ARE THE GREATEST
FAVORITES WITH THE CHILDREN.
M anu fa ctured Only y
James Stedman
Manufacturing 1 Confectioner.
145 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD?
DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT."
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
falr " My youngest daughter was cured of a very heavy cold before she had
m'r.no 1 ill secon(J hottle, when in a weak state, and has been stronger ever
"ce. All my family use it now with great benefit when they have colds.”
E. EVANS, Chapel House, Abermule.
flvitaridge’s
vjQ^ngTomc.
*‘l have been travelling many years, exposed to all kinds of weather and
have suffered intensely with my chest. Your Lung Tonic, I am happ’y to
say, has done my wife and I more good than all the doctors’ medicines put
together.” GEORGE PRICE, 227 Liverpool Street, Pendleton.
Try it for Consumption.
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBR'DGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
“TALES
of tlx©
Price Is
CONVICT system;
Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


v/
x
gd
P^REmVETMANffi
■„ th e
British Soldiers Favourite
a<?e*> t s * chewing C®
M AU TS n jydneY ITC
6 6 rjIALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CTJTLES|H|
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS}
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS. J
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW
SPOONS & FORKS
at the show-rooms.
“ THE BLOCK,”
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY,
Street,
MBLBOXJR3STE.
Collins
Golt GOlf. GrOll.
w<woooooo<x?f
“Silvertowii” Golf Balls, Golf Bag’s,
—AND—
“ Jacobs ” Patent Golf Club Head.
Made of Best Quality Gutta Percha. Thoroughly Hardened. Impervious to Wet.
The most economical Club Head made. The weights to meet all requirements THOROUGHLY
embedded. Improvement on all others. Perfect in balance.
Drivers, Bulgers, and Brasseys for Right and Left Handed Players.
The face is corrugated, or marked, as a Golf Ball, ensuring straighter and longer drives.
OLD BALLS RE-MOULDED
(“ Silvertown ”
Brand Only.)
The India Rubber, Gutta Fercha
& Telegraph Works Co. Ltd.
gytjxiey Branch : 283 GEORGE STREET (facing Hunter*street).
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige bg
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
f io neers
(The COUNTRY MILK TRADE.
'The FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which
[ has done so much for the colony and colonies).
The CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which
has done more).
REFRIGERATION. ICE-MAKING.
Pioneers
09
'I he Company sells only the very best articles. Supplying- all the principal places of Sydney with
ESilk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish., Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc-
Visit the City Depots (Refreshment)
02 KIIMG- STREET
23 ROYAL
for AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for Afternoon Teas for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
A-gents
SEND ORDERS TO THE
Everywhere.
HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
KNOWLES STEAM PUMP WORKS.
Pumps in Stock or £Lll Classes.
Boiler Feeding.
Tank Filling.
Mining.
Circulating.
Refrigerating.
Water Works.
Drainage.
m
T=»
SINKING FUMF.
Artesian Wei.
Salt Water.
Sewerage.
Tannery.
Acid.
Oil Refinery.
Marine.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Parke & Lacy Company Limited, Sydney.
POST FREE
“Artistic Furnishing*. ’’
Being a Few Notes on the Subject,
with ILLUSTRATIONS.
WM. WALKER, SONS, & BARTHOLOMEW,
New Duty Free Stock, bunhill house,
Latest Novelties. 357 George-st., Sydney
(Next DAVID JONErf;
PASSAGES BOOKED
J- cQ * TD AT, I , PJ
TO all parts op the world
Interpreters en route.
Trouble Saved.
A’o Commission Charged.
Information Gratis.
ALL LINES.
1)1 ALL CLASSES
At Lowest Hates.
Melbourne: 269 Collins-street.
Sydney : 4 Hunter-street, etc., etc.
Intending Passengers should apply to
THOS. COOK & SON.
“ 3DA.GOKTBT ” Clxaampagne. EXTRA SUP. DRY.
IMIAJFtISLS & CO’S Sherries. IN BULK and CASE.
“ MARIPOSA. ” Cigars. In 50 and 100 BOXES.
The above can now be had from the SOLE AGENTS—
SCOTT, SIBBALD & CO.,
20 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
P. R. LARKIN, IMPORTER of Wines, Spirits and Beers,
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL, 778 to 784 GEORGE STREET HAY
SYDNEY, is again to the Front, and, as during the last Quarter of a Century, is determtodS
the Van of Progress during the year ’96.
P.K.L. »M« t„„,e following p rioes -
ENGLISH ALES.
Foster’s Ale
M‘Ewan’s Ale
Younger’s (Monk)
Bass’s (bot. by Read Bros.)
Tennent’s (new Brew)
Jeffrey’s „
Prestonpan’s „
3
6
4
7
4
4
6
4
7
4
4
GUxNESS’S ENGLISH STOUT
Bull Dotr Stout
Boar’s Head Stout
Burkes’ “Cat”’
Beaver
Send for Special Price-list for ’96.
Whyte and Mackay’s Whisky 43/- Case.
. Larkin,
Prince of Wales’ Hotel and Refreshment Rooms,
778 to 784 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, Sydney.
