

McEWAN’S ale.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM
CADBURY’S COCOA
A Stimulating*, Sustaining* Cup. Made Instantly.
X PARSONS’ Flaked Oatmeal
3E£. Or. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—roß
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Tvn«in ? Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
% "o v
<RA^kA«ocK>
JS 3
CV*V°
V ° cV.
~ T,
U
V
C*“
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 28 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DRINK
CUP BLEND TEA
UNRIVALLED IN QUALITY.
ALL STOREKEEPERS
IN N.S.W. Sr QUEENSLAND.
ROBERTS’
Wine & Spirit Store,
SYDNEY.
The celebrated TVolfe’s Schnapps,
4s and 2s per bottle.
Broom’s Four-Crown Whisky, 3/9
Gilbey’s Silverstream Schnapps,
4s and 2s
Whyte and Mackay’s Special
Whisky, 3/9
Very Superior old Port Wine
for Invalids.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George & Market Streets, Sydney-
NOTED FOR ITS COMFORT
AND
MODERATE CHARGES.
Before veiling fhe Cify wrihe to the Manager for
Card of Tariff, (orrejpomience prcmpfly attended to,
111 l
aMSrn
PBO JEER
LEATHER
B ELTiW G
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Highest Award World’s Fair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
The T Boot Coy.
Largest and Best Shoe Store in Australia.
IMMENSE VARIETY TO SELECT FROM.
Prices Below every Competitor.
rp BOOT COMPANY,
-JL 386 Georg-e-st., Sycajaoy.
Established over 20 Years.
Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World.
For Travellers to al
parts of the World.
The CHEQUE BANK
System is the most
practicable and con-
venient method foi
conveying- and dis-
bursing money in any
sums, however large
or small.
Ladies travelling alone will find the CHEQUE BANK
System an almost invaluable aid in solving the vexed
question of how to take care of money in travelling. It
saves time and the various annoyances which the changing
of money in foreign countries naturally brings up.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than ordinary
Money Orders for remittance of money to all parts of the
world. Cheques posted to any part of Australasia.
Handbooks and all information on application.
James Malcolm,
GENERAL AGENT.
Sydney Agency:
56 **ITT STREET (near Bridge-st.)
= Capitaiue Oil Engine
3/4 to
60 B.H.P.
Recommended and used by nearly all Governments. Best and Cheapest motive Power for any purpose— Stationary, Electric Light, Portable Launches, Pishing Boats. Perfect
make, compact, strong, light, erected anywhere, simple, easily started in five minutes, no boiler, no water consumed, NO DANGER, no attendance after starting, clean ; fuel, any Kerosene, f-pint per
hour per H. P. used. Ask for results and testimonials. Results obtained for Sheep Shearing, if price for kerosene 10s. per case, 18 large sheep shorn at the cost of One Penny.
Hea-d. Office for Australasia - - - - 8 0 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Ask for Gilbey’s Silverstream Schnapps. Tucker & Co., Agents, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 17—No. 839. J
[Saturday, March 14, 1896.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dear Bulletin,— A Cockney song “ ’Arry,"
published and widely known in England and
Australia several years before “Clancy”
first appeared, tells how “ ’Arry mixes beer
and gin till ’e dunno where ’e are.” “The
Banjo” could not, therefore, have given this
line to the variety stage.—C.S.
With Westminster Gazette’s apologies to
the shade of Dryden : —
Two Alfreds in one generation horn,
Tin- Lanreateship of England did adorn.
But Nature found the first throes so exhausting,
That after Tennyson she bore an Austin.
Angus and Robertson supply the following
list of books in order of Sydnej 7 retail demand
during February : —
1. Lawson’s Poems, 5s.
2. Wells’ “ Wonderful Visit,” 6s.
3. Crawford’s “Casa Braceio,”2s 6d and 3s 6d.
4. Corelli’s “Sorrows of Satan,”2s6d and3s6d,
5. Kipling’s “Second Jungle Book,” 6s.
6. Paterson’s “Man from Snowy River,” 5s.
7. Purcell’s Life of Card. Manning, 2 vole., 36s.
8. Maelaren’s “Days of Auld Lang Syne,” 6s.
9. Meredith’s “Amazing Marriage,” 2s 6d and
3s 6d.
10. Dawson’s London Idylls, 6s.
To Correspondents. —McG. : “How is
it that women writers have no mean ; they
are all either appallingly immoral or
hideously moral ? ” This would make a text
for (1) a sermon on the unwisdom of assert-
ing any general affirmative in literature ; (2)
a sermon on the conventional misuse of
words such as “moral” and “immoral”;
(3) a sermon on the carelessness with which
even intelligent people accept conventional
ideas and judgments which seem to bolster
their own ideas and judgments ; (4) a ser-
mon on the fact that fiction is only a part of
literature. Just reconsider that rash state-
ment Agnes : Do you think it quite just
to say that Hardy cultivates sex-topics merely
to sell his novels ? In any case, are sex-
topics per se objectionable? “Jude’s”
fault is that its realism is crude, dull, and
ugly ; not that it is realistic.
Jerome :“ Handing on the torch of existence ”
is taken from a noble passage of Lucretius— the
reference, of course, being to the Greek sport of
racing with lighted torches. Here is Calverley’s
translation
Matter mingled and massed into indissoluble union
Does not exist. For we see how wastes each separate
substance,
So flow piecemeal away, with the lengthening centuries,
all things,
Till from our eyes by degrees that old self passes, and is
not.
Still Universal Nature abides unchanged as aforetime.
Whereof this is the cause. When the atoms part from a
substance,
That suffers loss; but another is elsewhere gaining an
increase ;
So that, as one thing wanes, still a second bursts into
blossom,
Soon, in its turn, to be left. Thus draws this.Universe
always
Gain out of loss ; thus live we mortals one on another.
Bourgeons one generation, and one fades. Let but a few
years
Pass, and a race has arisen which was not: as in a raoe
course,
One hands on to another the burning torch of Existence.
A Golden Shanty,
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and
Verse, by Bulletin Writers.
CONTENTS:
V erse : How he Died and The Last Bullet, by
John Farrell—The Old Wife and the New, Mid-
summer in a Hawkesbury Valley, Two Sunsets,
Dreams, Hail to the Dead, Even So, The First of
May, At the Opera, The Ghost, and A Sunset
Fantasy, by V. J. Daley—In Memoriam Marcus
Clarke, and Frank Denz, by Henry Kendall —
Old Pardon the Son of Reprieve, and Clancy of
the Overflow, by “ The Banjo ’’—The Drivel of
Our Fathers, by Jas. Edmond—Seen Again, by
E. Lowe—M‘Gillviray’s Dream, by Thos. Bracken
Shadow-Hunting, by Francis Myers—Faces in
the Street, by Henry Lawson—The Song of Te
Kooti, by Arthur Desmond—Peter and Paul —
At Sandy Crossing, by J. M. Marsh.
Prose : His Father’s Mate, by Henry Lawson
—Up a Northern River, by Jas. Edmond—A
Golden Shanty, Mr. and Mrs. Sin Fat, and The
Washerwoman of Jacker’s Flat, by E. Dyson-
North Queensland Journalism, by Titus Salt—
Between Two Bottles, by J.K.
Paper covers ; 171 pp. ; posted, Is. 3d.
The Last of Six:
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
By Ernest Favenc.
Contents : The Last of Six—A Cup of Cold
Water—A Haunt of the Jinkarras — The Rumford
1 lains Iragedy—Spirit-Led—Tranter’s Shot —The
Spell of the Mas-Hantoo—The Track of the Dead
I he Mystery of Baines’ Hog—Pompey—Mai-
chook’s Doom: A Nicholson River Story—The
Cook and the Cattle-Stealer-The Parson’s Black-
ly A Lucky Meeting—The Story of a Big
Pearl—The Missi,1 8 Super—That Other Fellow.
Paper covers; 141 pp. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System,
By Price Warung.
Contents : How Muster - Master StonemaL
Earned his Breakfast—How “Lifer” Dale At
tended the Guest-Dinner—“ Egerton of Ours ” —
Absalom Day’s Promotion—The Convict’s Sacra-
ment Under the Whip, or the Parson’s Lost
Soul- The Commandant’s Picnic Party—The
Special Commission : The Consecration ; Spinning
uie Hemp ; Knotting the Rope—Marooned on the
Grummet.
Paper covers ; 193 pp. ; posted, Is. 3d.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.. LTD
Battle Pictures.
Loving and fighting, humanity’s keenest
pleasures, have proportionate prominence in
literature. The human individual is im-
pelled now to dratv close to him other indivi-
duals, anon to dash them far aAvay, and his
pendulum-swing between the instinct of
union and the instinct of antagonism is the
most striking phenomenon of his nature.
That nature finds its highest expression at
the extremities of the arc, in the nervous
exaltation of the love-fever or the battle-
fever. Round the stagnant middle cluster
oysters, peace societies, and people of Aveak
vitality.
* * * *
It. is the red-blooded people avlio make
literature, and whose hot passions are litera-
ture’s staple. White corpuscles are the ruin
of women-writers, and of half the men.
Hamlet’s quaint notion that
Imperial Caesar dead'and turn’d to clay«r
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away,
may be matched, with the thought that to the
warm, lively blood in his arteries Ceesar
owed both his empire and his commentaries.
The want of this age and this age’s literature
is more red corpuscles. Whitefaced Steven-
son Struggled all his life to span the gulf
which separated him from his unattained
masterpiece. If he had hut inherited
another ounce of haemoglobin !
* * * *
The childish imagination craA r es tales of
man’s adventurous conflict with men, Avild
beasts, the elements, wizards and giants—
involving the triumph of egoism. Puberty
brings the desire for stories of passion and
devotion, embodying the victories of altruism.
The slackening of these interests in maturity
is one sign of physical decay. The uncul-
tured servant-girl who demands from her
journal tales “ Avitli plenty of love and
murder ” typifies the natural instincts of
the race. Only exhausted vitality can de-
ride these instincts as “ brutal,” and wrap
itself in philosophic calm. Thrilling pulses
demand action and the literature of action :
time enough for contemplation in one’s coffin.
Soul .cannot inarch to tlm bleating of sheep ami
the lowing of c ittle,
Ratlier the war-blast of passion were thrilling
again in mine ears !
Oh for th touch of the palpitant worM ! for the
gloi y of battle !
Show me once more the proud wave of the
banners, the gleam of the spears !
This is good verse, and better philosophy.
* » * *
Booksellers and publishers knotv that the
literature of battle is always in greedy
demand—Avitness the always-flowing stream
of books dealing with Napoleon and his
campaigns, the perennial sale of Creasy’s
“Decisive Battles,” the life of Southey’s
“Nelson” when his poems are forgotten.
The pages of the fight are always the best
thumbed in “Tom Brown’s Schooldays,”
and most men will turn back to read
again of Kenelm Chillingly’s two rounds
with Tom Bowles. War is the theme of
Homer ; love inspired Dante ; and people
who read Milton flutter for favorite
passages between the dalliance in Eden and
the battles of the angels. Even to the
religious mind the theological disquisitions
seem flat.
* * » *
The most recent addition to the gallery of
battle pictures—a little book called “ The
Red Badge of Courage,” a story of the
American Civil War—has roused English
critics to unusual enthusiasm. The author
is compared to Tolstoi and Zola, and is said
to more than hold his OAvn in the comparison.
Yet without qualification the idea thus given
is misleading. “The Red Badge of Courage ”
is a scene, an episode, a fragment. Zola
and Tolstoi, describing the effects of war on
a recruit, make of the description only a
phase of their story, and their whole
achievement is incomparably the greater.
The stranger who starts to run with them
makes speed for a hundred yards, and leaves
the track abruptly. Yet it is much that he
rivals them as far as he goes.
* * * •
Henry Fleming is a nervous, hyper-
sensitive lad, reared on a Northern farm.
His father is dead. His mother discourages
his idea of enlisting ; but he still broods
over it.
One night, as he lay in bed, the winds had
carried to him the clangoring of the church-bell,
as some enthusiast jerked the rope frantically to
tell the twisted news of a great battle. This
voice of the people rejoicing in the night had
made him shiver in a prolonged ecstasy of excite-
ment. Later he had gone down to his mother’s
room and had spoken thus : “Ma, I’m going to
enlist.” “ Henry, don’t you be a fool,” his
mother had replied. She had then covered her
face with the quilt. There was an end to the
matter for that night. Nevertheless, the next
morning he had gone to a town that was near his
mother’s farm and had enlisted in a company that
was forming there.
When he gets to the front, there is a long
interval of waiting and drilling before his
regiment comes into action. He has ample
time for thought, and his thought takes
always one direction : How will he behave
underfire?’ Will he fight bravely? Is it
possible he is a coward ? He ponders these
questions continually and finds no answer.
At last, one morning, the regiment is called
up before dawn and goes swinging off into
the darkness. It marches for a day or two,
and again sits down to think. The youth
grows once more to regard himself as merely
part of “a vast blue demonstration.”
One grey dawn, however, ho was kicked in the
leg by the tall soldier, and then, before he was
entirely awake, he found himself running down a
■ iod-rbud, in the midst of men avlio Avere panting
from the first effects of speed. His canteen banged
rhythmically upon his thigh, and his haversack
bobbed softly. His musket bounced a trifle from
his shoulder at each stride, and made his cap feel
uncertain upon his head.
He could hear the men whisper jerky sentences :
“Bay—what’s all this—about?” “What th’
thunder— we—skedaddlin’ this way fer ? ” “ Billie
—keep off m’ feet. Yeh run—-like a cow.” And
the loud soldier’s shrill voice could be beard :
“ What th’ devil they in such a hurry for?” , .
The sun spread disclosing rays, and, one by one,
regiments burst into view like armed men just
born of the earth. The youth perceived that the
time had come. He was about to be measured.
For a moment lie felt, in the face of his great
trial, like a and the flesh over his heart
seemed very thin. He seized time to look about
him calculatingly.
But he instantly saw that it would be impos-
sible for him to escape from the regiment. It en-
closed him. And there were iron laws of tradition
on four sides. He was in a moving box.
As he perceived this fact it occurred to him that
he had never wished to come to the war. He had
not enlisted of his free will. He had been dragged
by the merciless Government, and now they were
taking him out to be slaughtered.
The line encounters the body of a dead
soldier.
He lay upon his back staring at the sky. He
was dressed in an awkward suit of yellowish-
brown. The'youth could see that the soles of his
shoes had been worn to the thinness of writing-
paper, and from a great rent in one the dead foot
projected piteously. . . . The ranks opened
covertly to avoid the corpse. The invulnerable
dead man forced a way for himself. The youth
looked keenly at the ashen face.
Presently the brigade halts in the fringe of
a grove. The men crouch among the trees
and peer beyond the smoke, chattering
eagerly.
The din in front swelled to a tremendous chorus.
The youth and his fellows were frozen to silence.
They could see a flag that tossed in the smoke
angrily. Near it were the blurred and agitated
forms of troops. There came a turbulent stream
of men across the fields. A battery changing
position at a frantic gallop scattered the stragglers
right and left.
A shell screaming like a storm banshee went
over the huddled heads of the reserves. It landed
in the grove, and, exploding redly, flung the brown
eartii. There was a little shower of pine needles.
Bullets began to whistle among the branches
and nip at the trees. Twigs and leaves came
sailing down. It was as if a thousand axes, wee
and invisible, were being wielded, Many of the
men were constantly dodging and ducking their
heads. ...
The battle-flag in the distance jerked about
madly. It seemed to be struggling to free itself
from an agony. The billowing smoke was filled
with horizontal flashes.
Men running swiftly emerged from it. They
grew in niimleis until it was.seen that the whole
commuid wn - fleeing. The flag suddenly sank
down as if dying. Its motion as it fell was a
geslure of (1 -s|.;,ir.
The beaten brigade rushes past the flank of
the youth’s regiment—the men “galloping
like wild horses.” “Here and there were
officers carried along on the stream like
exasperated chips. They Avere striking about
them Avith their swords and with their left
fists, punching every head they could reach.
They cursed like highwaymen.” The raw
regiment quakes at the sight. Presently it
is attacked. The youth loads and fires auto-
matically, then hurriedly, with anger.
The men dropped here and there like bundles.
The captain of the youth’s company had been
killed in an early part of the action. His body
lay stretched out in the position of a tired man
resting, but upon his face there was an astonished
and sorrowful look, as if he thought some friend
had done him an ill turn. The babbling man was
grazed by a shot that made the blood stream
widely down his face. He clapped both hands to
his head. “Oh!” he said, and ran. Another
grunted suddenly, as if he. had been struck by a
club in the stomach. He sat down and gazed
ruefully. In his eyes there was mute, indefinite
reproach.
At last the enemy is repulsed. The youth
feels it is all over. The supreme trial is
passed. The red, formidable difficulties of
war are vanquished.
He went into an ecstasy of self-satisfaction. He
had the most delightful sensations of his life.
Standing as if apart from himself, he viewed that
last scene. He perceived that the man who had
fought thus was magnificent.
Suddenly, to his consternation, the enemy
again advances. The regiment is amazed,
dejected. Is all their valour then for no-
thing ? The youth waits in a horrified, lis-
tening attitude.
A man near him who, up to this time, had been
working feverishly at his rifle, suddenly stopped
and ran with howls. A lad whose face had borne
an exalted courage, the majesty of him who dares
give his life, was, at an instant, smitten abject.
He blanched like one who has come to the edge of
a cliff at midnight and is suddenly made aware.
There was a revelation. He, too, threw down his
gun and fled. There was no shame in his face.
He ran like a rabbit.
Others began to scamper away through the
smoke. The youth turned his head, shaken from
hid,trance by this movement as if the regiment
was leaving him behind. He saw the few fleeting
forms.
He yelled then with fright and swung about.
For a moment, in the great clamor, he Avas like a
proverbial chicken. He lost the direction of safety.
Destruction threatened him from all points.
Directly he began to speed towards the rear in
great leaps.
The youth meets a throng of Avounded, and
one of them touches him acutely by asking
where he is hit. He regards the Avounded
soldiers in an envious way, and ‘ ‘ Avishes
that he, too, had a wound, a red badge of
courage.” He meets a friend, “the tall
soldier,” mortally hurt, and with a wild-
beast’s anxiety to die away from prying eyes.
And by-and-by he gets back to his regiment.
Next day he is taken with an insane fury
against the enemy, and fights like a madman
without thought of self. Then the regiment
is sent on an expedition of sacrifice, almost
as a forlorn hope.
As the regiment swung from its position out
into a cleared space the wopds and thickets before
it awakened. Yellow flames leaped towards it in
many directions. The forest made a tremendous
objection. . . . The men, pitching forward
insanely, had burst into cheerings, mob- ike and
barbaric, but tuned in strange keys that can
arouse the dullard and the stoic. . • • f re ‘
sently the straining pace ate up their energies.
. . The regiment snorted and blew. Among
some solid trees it began to falter and hesitate. .
. . There was a further advance and further
hesitation. . . . “ Come on!” screamed the
lieutenant. He poked his face close to the 3 r outh
and waved his bandaged hand. “Come on.
Presently he grappled' with him as if for a
wrestling bout. It was as if he planned to drag
the youth by the ear on to the assault. _
The private felt a sudden unspeakable indigna-
tion against his officer. He wrenched fiercely and
shook him off.
“Come on yerself, then,” he yelled. There was
a bitter challenge in his voice.
They galloped together down the regimental
front. The ground scrambled after them. In
front of the colors the three men began to bawl :
“ Come on ! comeon!” They danced and gyrated
like tortured savages. .
The flag, obedient to these appeals, bended its
glittering form and swept towards them. 1 he
men wavered in indecision for a moment, and
then, with a long, wailful cry, the dilapidated
regiment surged forward and began its new
journey.
Over the field went the scurrying mass. It was
a handful of men spattered into the faces of the
enemy. Toward it instantly sprang the yellow
tongues. A vast quantity of blue smoke hung
before them, A mighty banging made ears value-
less.
The youth ran like a madman to reach the
woods before a bullet could discover him. He
ducked his head low, like a football-player. In
his haste his eyes almost closed, and the scene
was a wild blur. Pulsating saliva stood at the
corners of his mouth.
tVithin him, as iie hurled himself forward, was
born a love, a despairing fondness, for this flag
which was near him. It was a creation of beauty
and invulnerability. It was a goddess, radiant,
that bended its form with an imperious gesture
to him. It was a woman, red and white, hating
and loving, that called him with the voice of his
hopes. Because no harm could come to it, he en-
dowed it with power. He kept near, as if it could
be a saver of lives, and an imploring cry went
from his mind.
The colour-sergeant is killed, and the
youth seizes the flag. The regiment is re-
pulsed, but presently it inflicts a repulse in
its turn, and regains confidence in itself.
The youth’s officers praise him and his friend.
The' enemy advances again and gains the
shelter of a midway fence. They are dis-
lodged, the youth leading ovids the co o :rs ;
his friend seizes the enemy’s flag. And at
last the regiment is ordered to retire, and
with its brigade is moved to the rear. Its
work lifts apparently gone for nothing. The
youth begins to see clearly, to judge himself
and others, and to understand what is war.
He found time he could look back upon the
brass Mild bombast of bis earlier gospels and see
them truly. He was gleeful when he discovered
that lie now despised them.
With this conviction came a store of assurance.
He felt a quiet manhood, non-assertive, but of
sturdy and strong blood. He-knew that he would
no more quail before his guides wherever they
should point. He had been to touch the great
death, and found that, after all, it was but the
great death. He was a man.
* * * »
These extracts will give some idea of the
brilliancy of a remarkable book. It is
possibly too brilliant: one cannot see the
wood for the trees, the thought for the
epithets. In spite of the realism of exter-
nals, the vivid introspection, “The Red
Badge of Courage ” impresses one too much
as a wonderful piece of workmanship. Much
of its meaning is lost in the din, and the
color, and the movement of the language.
The similes are striking rather than helpful.
“Gyrating like tortured savages,” for ex-
ample, brings no definite picture to;mind.
One has to stop and think : does a tortured
savage gyrate ? how does he gyrate ? Kip-
ling, with far less pomp of language, shows
you the thing as it is. “The new develop-
ment detached the enemy from his base as a
sponge is torn from the rock, and left him
ringed about with fire in that pitiless plain.
And as a sponge is chased round the bath-
tub by the hand of the bather, so were the
Afghans chased till they broke up into little
detachments.” Here is a really luminous
simile.
* * * *
Tolstoi has the same knack of graphic sim-
plicity, with a touch of emotion in place of
Kipling’s touch of cynicism. Rostof’s feel-
ings in “ War and Peace ” seem more real,
more natural, than those of Henry Fleming.
No fine language interposes between the
reader and the subject : the mind is never
detached from the thought to follow the
style. Nor does “The Red Badge,” though
unquestionably thrilling towards the end,
ever quite attain the intensity of Kipling in
“The Drums of the Fore and Aft,” when the
day stays to watch the defiance of the
drummer-boys ; or of M6rim4e in “ How We
Took the Redoubt, strong and simple from
beginning to impressive close: “Colonel,”
said I, “you are badly wounded.” “Done
for, my boy ; but we have the redoubt.”
* * * *
“ The Red Badge of Courage ” is more
akin to Zola’s “ Debacle.” It is a similar in-
tellectual feat, though on nothing like such a
scale. Zola’s fine Avork, with all its power
is a splendid failure—a colored photograph
rather than a picture. There is something
of the same hardness, the same want of tone
and harmony, about “‘The Red Badge of
Courage. Its tints are too glaring • they
strain the mind as it strains the eyes to gaze
at a fire. And the book has no cool darkness
to turn to. Yet withal, it is a marvellous
piece of work.
* * * *
The author of “The Red Badge of
Courage is “ Stephen Crane ”-a name
unknown. Yet he must have written on a
basis of experience, and it is incredible
that so brilliant a writer should have
written nothing before. Only one writer
of note has shown the capacity to deal
with the same theme in the same way
—Ambrose Bierce. Anyone who compares
“ Chickamauga ” (in “In the Midst of
Life”) with “The Red Badge” will be
struck at once by the similarity of stand-
point and treatment. The conclusion is
hardly to be resisted that Stephen Crane is
either Ambrose Bierce or the Devil. And
the Devil is dead.


Medical.
\:
.0«*
&
If you cannot procure at your Chemist, write us direct.
NORTHROP * LYMAN CO., Ltd., 15 Bridge St.,
Sydney.
MANIIO O 13.
HEALTH, STRUNG I'll AND DIGOR RESTORE
In Four ll eeks by the use of
•m
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedent< d success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Fsstmce of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for Stis. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry A: Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MEL BO 11RN E
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
BBiOU’S INJECTION.
Hygien’j, Infallible and Preservative.
CUBES PRtfJUTH, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Use Dr. King’s
Infallible ** Remedies
(POST FREE).
Pile Tabloids
ensure Immediate Relief
and Absolute Cure of Piles
Toxiiene
Cures Quickly and Safely all
Diseases of the Urinary Organs
(both sexes) — 4/- and 7/6 per Box.
The Wife’s Friend.
Every woman’s
welfare within
her own control. Safe, Efficacious. 10/6 per Box.
Confidential cor'cspondence invited. Money
Orders-payable to The King- Co., Sole Pro-
prietors and Manufacturers, 54 George-st. West,
SYDNEY, and Box 291 G.P.O.
/4 ENTS.’ Latest American Preventative—
Vjf Simple, effectual, last for years. 2/6 posted.
Write WILLIAM GARFIELD, Collins-street
West, MELBOURNE
Medical.
■a
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S. W. and N.Z.)
Whose new and scientific treatment, by purifying
and enriching the blood, gives new life and tone
to the whole nervous and muscular systems, and
builds up a new constitution in the most enfeebled.
The first week of treatment brings glad relief, and
perseverance ensures a thorough and lasting
CURE.
Mr— ni suffering from Nervousness and
t |>| Debility, Exhaustion, Sperma-
torrhoea, Varicocele and Private Diseases, should
try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies.
Young Men and those Who Wish
to Marry,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from debility, should
consult him, for he is now enabled, quickly and
effectually, to remove the cause, and so prevent
life-long misery.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing
their troubles in detail, be treated at home. The
course of treatment will not in any way interfere
with their business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive
a straightforward and candid opinion of the case,
and the possibility of a cure. If the patient is
curable, lie will tell him so, if not, he will also tell
him. He undertakes no case which he cannot
cure.
&& Med : cines sent securely packed and free
from observation to any part of the colonies.
WOMEN?”
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle-aged and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire confidence
and success.
F 3 TALE PILLS for irregularities and ob-
structions. 10s. and 20s. per box. Guaranteed.
29 York-st., Wynyard Square, Sydney-
ABE YOU SUFFERING
F om weakness of the Nervous System, loss of Noble
Manhood through early errors or excesses. If so, write
to me and I will send you an absolute cure. Address,
Private, P. 0., Box 347, Sydney.
MEDICINE SENT FREE
TO MEN UNTIL CURED of all NERVOUS
Diseases, Vital Losses, Varicocele, &e., &c., no
matter how severe the Case. Remedy sent in
plain package. When cured we charge von not
more than £1 ss. HARVARD REMEDY
AGENCY, P.O. Box 399, Sydney.
MANHOOD RESTORED!
In the very worst of cases. CERI AIN !
MUMFORD’S VIVIFYING HERBAL
MEDICATED NERVINE TONIC PILLS
Will positively restore yon to health anil vigour, no matter
from what cause you suffer, or how hart the case inay be.
This truly wonderful medicine nets like a charm, en-
richiner the blood, and giving strength to the nerves and
all parts that are weak. Without doubt one of the gr-arest
medicines ever discovered. Sufferers say, 1 wish 1 had
known of you before. Price, 20s. per case; with all
instructions. By Post to all pans
F. W. MUMFORD, Medical Herbalist,
Eclectic Establishment, NICHOLSON STREET
(opposite Exhibition). MELBOURNE.
. [Established 1*78.]
iiaiai
PRESCRIPTIONS
Are to be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE ” for the Speedy Cure of Nerv-
ousness. Debility, Lost Manhood, and
Kindred diseases, &e. A copy of this book
will bn sent Free, sealed for Six Penny Stamps.
Address -
S- WARD AND CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IT MAY BE SELDOM
That Medical Advertisements can be relied on, but we here assert the following facts, which can be
borne out from Testimonials in our possession. Thousands may see this, and treat it as some
announcements deserve, but in this they would make a great mistake,
AND FOR THIS REASON :
by taking notice of what we have already done and can do, as proved by thousands of grateful
acknowledgments of our skill which we hold, it may Save Your Life and that of your dear ones.
Has any Person Living
see
:;V-
CURED 344 cases of ERYSIPELAS,
each case in 24 hours, and Setter
Failed in One Case,? We have. Or
HYDATIDS for 15 years, and Never
Failed; or BRIGHT'S DISEASE,
which is supposed to he incurable;
or RINGWORM in Half a Minute;
or ever actually cured the LIVER
and KIDNEYS in their Worst States
of Disease; or MARASMUS in Chil-
dren after All Hopes had been Given
Up by all the best medical men ; or
YELLOW JAUNDICE when life was
despaired of; or ECZEMA alter 35
years’ suffering-, or ASTHMA atter
25 years’ standing ; or DEBILITY at
58 years or any age ? We answer—
WE HAVE CURED ALL
DISEASES,
and we repeat again, WE HAVE ;
and can also CURE Scurvy, Bad
Legs, Piles, Diphtheria, and remove
WORMS of all Sorts (Tape, Ring, and
Thread). We cure at once Itch,
Barbers' Itch, Coughs, Colds, Bron-
chitis, Catarrh in the Head, Blight
and otner Diseases of the Eves,
Varicose Veins, Deafness, and any
other diseases,
WHEN ALL OTHER TREAT-
MENT FAILS.
We sav again WE HAVE, and having
established a Branch of our Melb.
House in Sydney, we ask the people
of N.S. W. to TRY US and See for
Themselves the Wonderful Remedies
WE HAVE.
OUR REMEDIES ARE SAFE, SURE, AND MODERATE IN PRICE.
W. ME NT! PL AY & SON
5051 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, & 188 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having comp'eted his New and Centrallv-situated
Electrical <SL- Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome bis Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS k SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those Who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually, to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
NGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
E
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer. (Tons.
MARIPOSA
MONOVVAI
ALAMEDA
Leave ! Leave j Arrive at
Sydnej Auckland. San
at 4 p.m. at 2 p.m. Franoisoo,
3158 March 16 March 21 April
3433 April 13 April 18 May
3158 May 11 May 16 June
9
7
4
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng
land :
SALOON £O6 to £O7 10s.
Combination Ticket, ... J 857 l 3s. Id.
STEERAGE £3L 19s. 7d.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Fridge Street, and Passenger Office, Moore
Street, near G. P. 0., Sydney.
TICKETS.
TICKETS
IiEIMiCEn It A TEA
To any part of the Australian Colonies, New Zealand,
America, Europe, Africa, &c.
TICKETS liought, Sold, Exchanged,
—AT—
Passenger Ticket Supply Agency
135 King Street (over F. F. Ice Co.), SYDNEY ;
121 Spring Street, MELBOURNE; also ADELAIDE.
Medical.
Dr.
G-eorge On
Chinese Doctor,
23 CARLTON TERRACE, WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
A LL persons suffering from any Internal Diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses, may have them
dispersed by medicine without cutting. Also CURES
B.c Eyes, Fits and Skin Diseases. He asks no question
but will tell them where the pain is felt, and informs his
patients as to an ultimate cure or otherwise. Has prac-
ised 25 years in Sydney. Consultation Fee, 10/6.
l¥larkeH’s Pills.
A boon to the suffering, the friend of the household. These
wonderful herbal Pills quickly cure in either sex, all liver,
stomach, bowel and kidney complaints,constipation, biliousness
headaches, &c., blood diseases and female complaints.
iWarkell's Pills act like magic on the liver, stomach,
bowels and kidneys, stimulate and strengthen all the vital
organs of the body, purify tho blood and restore the bloom of
health. If you are ailing (no matter what cause) try these pills
and you’ll bless the day you did so. Sold at all chemists and
grocers in the world, Is. per box, with full directions, Use them
Vice and you'll never be •without them.
LADIES
Eminent Specialist
I
■
II
■ ■
their
Should consult the
particular ailments.
29 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
DR. SPEER
Female Pills for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s. per Imx
guaranteed O.K.
Ladies
Parisian Female Powders restore regu-
larity and remove obstructions without
fail in 48 hours. No obstruction can resist them, and they
never leave any bad after effects. Price 7/6., posted any
colony. Write “SPECIALIST,” G.P.0., Melbourne.
<n
V;
i -■
%
Will Cure
WHEN
Medicine Fails.
We send our Electric
Belts to male or female
(with or without the Sus-
pensory Appliance) on the
most Exceptionally Easy
Terms. No sufferer, how-
ever poor, need be with-
out one.
If you are WEAK, NERVOUS or DEBILI-
TATED, send at once. Address —
Dr + Lamont Electric Belt Co M
82 King Street, SYDNEY.
ONTO Cure, W o I* ay.
electro
b ELt
riiHlS is tlie ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
i oure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will p “rmanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address —
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
Snakebite Antidote
POCKET CASES.
For Dr. Mueller’s
Successful Treatment ot
Snakebite by the Hypo
dermic Injection of Strycli
nine, with Patent Poison
Sucker, Hypodermic
Syringe, two Tubes of
Strychnine Tabloids, which
will keep for years, and
Full Directions for Use.
Price, complete, 16s 6d— postage paid to all p ut»
of Australia.
L. BRUCK, 13 Castlereagh-st., SYDNEY.


fEorthington Pumping Engine Company ,
WORTHINGTON TRIPLE EXPANSION SURFACE
CONDENSING PUMPING ENGINE.
(HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE)
WORTHI NGTON
32 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
TRADE MARiU
Victorian Agency—SV:rt-street, South Melbourne.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
Are the Recognised Standard of PUMPING MACHINERY throughout the World
PUMPS KEPT IN STOCK
IRRIGATION
SINKING
MINING
CREAMERIES
SUITABLE FOE
GARDEN SUPPLIES
WOOL SCOURING
WOOL DUMPING
WWPER SUPPLIES
SEWERAGE
MARINE
TANK FILLING
BOILER FEEDING
Catalogues and Prices oh application.
Schweppes
To be obtained at
all Clubs, Hotels, and Wine Merchants,
if specially ordered.
SODA WATER, &c.
These Waters are Supplied to the Queen.
EXCELSIOR
NICOTINE
LIQUID
NO MORE POISONING!
COST
ABSOLUTELY DESTROYS TICKS and LICE.
CURES and PREVENTS SCAB and FOOTROT.
A Farthing per Sheep.
NICOTINE MANGE CURE (in Bottles) 1/6; pints, 2/6 each.
NICOTINE BLIGHT CURE (in Bottles) £-pts., 1/6; pints, 2/6 each.
Weber, Lohmann & Co.,
Melbourne—Rialto, Collins-st,
Sydney—63 Pitt Street.
AGENCIES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES.
AFTER
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS
Why waste time, money and health with wonderful “cure-alls,’
specifics, etc., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of a new, certain remedy
that is a’complete cure for Nervousness and Failing Manly Vigor in young or
old men. The Homeopathic Treatment cures in four weeks. All letters sent
sealed. Address, D r . IRVING CO., 14*1 Collins St., Melbourne.
w -e. CARLISLE & CO.,
18 barrack street,
and at Sydney ;
116 JEFFERSON AVE.,
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Agents for American Manufacturers of
BOOTS & SHOES
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world where
me neahng virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers In ->u , “ n
ailments of humanity their bScent^acSA°2oS
recognised. !• idlest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IK YOU SUFFER TRY Timi ii
!mu l ious ],eSS 18 n ° L 523 oxford street. London,^heyaM
Business Announcements^
Prof Loisette’s Assimilative Memory :
Or, How to Attend and Never Fbrget.
Established nearly a quarter of a Century. Incomparable
for students and business people. No artificial, mechaiii-
cal or “locality” “associations," but Assimilation only,
Taught by mail in ONE BOOK (instead of Six, as formerly
used) from this permanent BRANCH only. All agencies
have been abolished. Questions at bottom of page help
out like oral lectures. Endorsed by well-known people in
all civilised countries. For Testimonials and Terms,
address-Prof. A. Loisette, P.O. Box 1234, Sydney, N.S.VV
HAIKtMtKSSKKS ANi» WIMIAKIItS.
To flie Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising' 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in alarge
varietv of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away
Hail* Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE ladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from our pattern of liair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 682 deorgc Street, Sydney.
Medical.
R
• ‘
The Eminent Specialist in all Nervous Diseases.
Registered in England and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a NERVOUS character,
from whatever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
newest American remedy for Debility proved
—absolutely effective, known only to Dr.
Wallace. Cures cases pronounced hopeless.
Thirty years’ experience in Europe, America,
and Australia. My BOOK has opened the
eyes of numbers of both sexes to their true
condition. A perfectly readable book. Send
Six Stamps at once. Write your case freely
and confidentially. The charge of ONE
POUND ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace
for the radical Cure of Debility.
Are you anxious All impediments
removed, about yetting Married ?
morbid fancies eradicated, and the future
made bright. Don’t waste valuable time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment, and receive prompt
reply Depression of spirits, bashfulness, inability to
look frankly into the eyes of another, headache, hair
coming out, dim sight, noises in head and ears, weak
memory, forgetting persons, names, places, etc., loss
of voice, taste, or smell, sunken eyes, pimples on face,
paleness of face and lips, looks old for years, stunted
in growth, palpitation of heart, pain in or under breast-
bone, shortened breath, indigestion, with depression
after food, constipation or irregular bowels, flatulency,
gravel, weakness or pain across small of back, loss of
muscular power, afraid of something going to happen,
distorted sleep, moaning, talking, grinding teeth’
tearful or want to laugh. Dr. WALLACE", Box 52
Post Office, Park-street, SYDNEY, NSW
Health
V.
Diseas?.
A Valuable Book FOR MEN
containing positive proofs'
Docror's evidence, reference,
and exp ains an absolute and
Perfect Cure for Lost Manhood,
Premature Decline, Fi.no
tional Disorders, Kidney and
Bladder Diseases, &c.
Nearly One Hundred pages.
This Scientific Medical Treatise Posted for 6 Stamps.
Address— APOTHECARIES’ DISPENSARY.
506 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BLOOD POISON
A SPECIALTY
Primary,
Secondary
or Tertiary BLOOO POISON per*
manently cured in 15 to 35 days. You can
De treated at home for same price under
same guaranty. If you prefer to come
“ere we will contract to pay railroad and
no f ; ! i re an P {*otel bills while here, and make
uerrnrv *- to cur «- If you have taken
SEbSf’JL dlde »M ,tash > and still have aches
Patches in the mouth, Sore
„P |m Ples> 9<>PPer-Colored Spots, El*
foiling an * PJf.^ 6 body, Hair or Eyebrows
SO’V,?,, *’ ll ,s thls Secondary BLOOD POl-
obs7i I" Buarn " tee to cure - We solicit the most
® D ***“ ate eases and challenge the world for
Mirp vn,," *-«'A n A‘A*P Ure - Physicians cannot
t ion J m,’„ rf .?, 0 ° ca P ltal behind our uncondi
annlic^tinn ant 4rt/i A ' ,>Bolute P ro °*’ B sent sealed on
o2E ,, atlon : Address COOK REMEDY CO,
307 Masonic Temple, CHICAGO, ILL., USA
MS
and head-noises
CURED
By the ARTIFICIAL EAR CUSHIONS.
Comfortable to wear and Invisible. Illustrated book
N A oS* P r °ofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M
AST, Burke and Wills Chambers, Collins-st., MELB.
READ THIS.
ELECTRIC BELT FREE.
How to Obtain It.
,° b - ain A - e " ts we wi'l Pi vp >uvaj
Cha,nW.!°9i?.iit'ktro* U S»DNEV.
Enclose Stamp for Reply. |> OU ( Miss This.
SWAGMAN : “Could yer give us a pipe of tobacco, mate?"
HORSEMAN : “Yes. I can give you some that was made in America. It’s CAMERON’S TWO SEAS—the best
smoke in the world!”
SWAGMAN : “My oath, it’s good. I’ve bin tryin' to get it for years.”


Try Anthony Hordern’s
I ollow the lead of tens of thousands if you are
in the outside division ; while, if you are of the
chosen people, do as you have done before. We
have everything you can wish for. Whether you
are a man of 80, one foot in the grave ; or a young
fellow of 18, with plenty of pocket money and a
waggon-load of expectations —we are the people
who can please > youi right up to the hilt. A nice
rwrimTr™BACCA or a dandy SUIT OF
oijUixixLo ; warmth and comfort for your de-
clining years, or dainty solitaires for cuffs and
neck.
GIVE IT A NAME !
You can get it at our Store. A pound of
A AiJN Ito furbish up the garden fence, a ton of
iron to build a stable with, a SADDLE for your
nag, a DOLL for your daughter, a BONNET for
£°T U^™ e ’, a CRADLE for baby, a PAIR of
GLOVES for your sweetheart, a TRICYCLE for
that nipper of nine, and anything else you may
happen. to want; good things for lining your
carcass inside, and correct arrangements for out-
side. There is no limit to the conveniences of our
otore ; there is no end to the List of our Wares.
WE SELL EVERYTHING.
We have the honor of serving many thousands
every day, and delightedly record expressions of
unlimited satisfaction at our treatments. We
serve old friends, whose familiar faces remind us
of our youth, and sometimes when some well-
remembered form is missed, the sad thought
comes that one day or other all must pass away.
Then new faces come upon the scene, and young
faces, bringing evidence of our continued popu-
larity. From
GENERATION TO GENERATION
the children are likeminded with their parents,
sons and daughters, grandsons and grand-
daughters, one and all finding their way to the old
store. Pardon this little digression from ordinary
paths, but there are times, even in the most
practical moments, when sentiment asserts its
sway.
Anyhow, your best plan will be to do your
SHOPPING AT
ANTHONY HORDERN’S.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
SYDNEY.
HIRES’
HOOT BEER
Glass!
Quick!
There’s lotsof sDap ana
vim in this Hires'
Rootbeer. There’s lots
of pleasure and good
health in it, too. A de-
licious drink, a temper-
ance drink, a home-
made drink, a drink
that delights the old
and young. Be sure
and get the genuine
HlRES’Rootbeer
A Is. package makes 5 gallons Sold Everywhere.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA—
SHIRLEY, CLAYTON, & Co.,
SYDNEY.
Artificial Teeth, £5.
COMPLETE (Upper and Lower) G'dd Medal Sets
of perfectly - fitting Teeth, £5. Mastication
guaranteed. These are the best and lowest in price
made compatible with comfort, faithful workmanship,
and natural appearance of beauty. Soft plates for tender
gums. Old misfitting cases remodelled. Nervous patients
fitted with teeth if required without interfering with own
defective natural ones or roots. Teeth added to plate
after if wanted. Painless extractions daily by nitrous
oxide or cocaine. Fee, ss. No danger or ill-effects
follow. Send for Treatise on Teeth.
Consultations Free. Fees precisely the same as adver-
tised. Mention this paper.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dentist,
New Address-
-28 WYNfARD SQUARE (near Pfahlert’s), SYDNEY.
fIOJJS
• •
TIP-TOP
Designed
Displayed
and Electrotyped
F.T. miIDBCE & CO.
EXPERTS IN
Advertisement Display
87 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY.
TRY US
One
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- ELDBIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 660 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery ; 4, Music ; 5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition ;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery ; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
WEST AUSTRALIA.
SPLENDID BUILDING SITES AND BLOCKS
—AT—
PERTH, the CAPITAL CITY,
FROM £l5 EACH. VERY EASY TERMS.
Discount for Cash. Title Guaranteed Perfect.
The Intercolonial Investment 00.
(Limited),
309 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas, Manager.
S3T Note. —Map of West Australia (4 colors)
latest data. Post free, Is. each.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
IS THE GREAT
BLOOD=PURIFIER
NERVE-TONIC
AND
Strength-Builder.
It attacks and breaks up every
humor, cures skin eruptions, and
restores exhausted vitality. Suf-
ferers from indigestion, general
debility, or any other ailment
arising from impure blood, should
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It builds up the system generally, makes
food nourishing, sleep refreshing, and life enjoyable.
AYER’S PILLS
SUGAR-COATED.
PURELY VEGETABLE.
CURE SICK HEADACHE, CONSTIPATION, DYSPEPSIA.
As a Purgative, Ayer’s Pills are the Best in the World.
Highest Awards to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Pills, Chicago Exposition, 1893.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
fjVLE- 3 lA'
CD
'Ss-cS'
3\
L-J
N |i
J ewellers.
Freetrade Prices.
Wholesale Only.
BEST ASSORTED STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
Walthams & Rotherhams
A SPECIALITY. Intercolonial and Country Buyers treated liberally.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets PD.
French PD Corsets.
These celebrated CORSETS have been awarded the Highest Honors
wherever exhibited, including
10 GOLD MEDALS and DIPLOMES D'HQHNEUR,
Obtainable from all Leading Drapers.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Borsdorff 6a Co.,
Sole Agents for Australia,
liO BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
252-4 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
AND AT
A.delaide & Holbart.
Trade Mark.
EE?
1L
*r.
■s-
'T
i/i
HD
m
C>
*
&
%
*
GREAT DISTRIBUTION of the LISSON ESTATE,
CONSISTING OF
Sydney, Suburban and Country Freehold Properties. Issue of 119,000 Shares at 10s.
T^e Ba ii o t will absolutely take place at Hobart on 15th APRIL, 1096.
Trustees: Hon. ALEX. KETHEL, M.L.C. ; Hon. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.L.C Bankers: BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Value of Property to be Distributed - <£59,505.
First Prize, £12,850 ; Second Prize, £lO,OOO ; Third Prize, £4420 ; Fourth Prize, T4OBO ; Fifth Prize, £2800; Sixth Prize, £1450 ;
Seventh Prize, £1350; and 85 other Prizes, ranging from £5O to £1350.
See Prospectus for detailed particulars of Properties. For SHARES and Information apply to
P. M. LISSON, HOBART, TASMANIA; or to
N. J. LISSON, POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, who will act as Agent for the Estate in New South Wales.
What's the Good?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He spoke of love, he told a tale
Of (as ’tis called) devotion.
She did not smile, or frown, or rail,
Or show the least emotion,
Quite silent for awhile she stood,
And then she said, “ O, what’s the good? ”
Adolphus urged again his suit,
His love knew no abatement,
And to the damsel standing mute
He made a further statement,
Composed in passion’s purest mood,
Her answer still was “ What’s the good ? ”
A winsome girl in many ways :
So full of animation,
And fond of flattery and praise
In friendly conversation.
But with ai heart of stone or wood
Whereon was graven “ What’s the good ? ”
“ Suppose I cared for you, suppose ”
t She blushed in mild confusion —
“ I hugged, like many girls one knows,
) The old, old love illusion ?
’Twould vanish, leaving me to brood
On what had been. 0, what’s the good ? ”
He had no answer now to make,
No protest, or suggestion,
His heart, bai jove ! began to ache,
And so he dropped the question,
And went away supplied with food
For calm reflection—“ What’s the good ? ”
Of all poor joys upon this earth
Love brings the surest sorrow,
And nothing won to-day is worth
The worry of to-morrow,
True wisdom, rightly understood,
Consists in asking “ What’s the good?”
E.F.
Hall-Jones, successor to Agent-General
Undesirable Bill Reeves in the M.L. Cabinet
Chair of Justice, is a Liquor-prohibitionist, and
was, like Railways Cadman, a carpenter before
taking to politics. He was Ballance’s whip (“ the
best of whips,” Ballance said) and once told Bal-
lance he wouldn’t whip for the party if the Govt,
continued to hold Cabinet meetings on Sunday.
Ballance thought enough of Jones to thereafter take
a Sunday drive instead of attending to politics.
The Devil’s Own is again snubbed by Premier
Seddon. Bush law is Jones’s commonsense view
of justice.
‘ ‘ Can’t you write your lines closer ? ” said
a Melb. newspaper-proprietor to a reporter last
week. “If you had to pay for the copy-paper you’d
be more careful.”
Reference was lately made to old Dr.
Butler, the eccentric and good-hearted Hobart
medico and ex-Speaker, and to Braddon (now
Premier) addressing him as “ Mr. Sleeper.”
Braddon actually did so on the night when the
Reibey Ministry was defeated on a vote of cen-
sure. Braddon had not been long resident in the
country—it was his maiden session, and much
curiosity 'had been excited in Hobart as to what
side the Anglo-Indian official would take, for
little was known either as to his personality or
politics. Parties were so evenly balanced that
had the new man, who, in a blind sort of way, was
felt to be a strong man as soon as he rose to speak,
joined the Reibey crowd, the Ministry, led by the
ex-archdeacon, would have had a new lease of life.
Braddon rose—the venerable Speaker nodded;
“ Mr. Speaker,” said Braddon—the venerable
snored; “Mr. Sleeper,” said Braddon—a titter
went round the Chamber, and the gallery joined
in, one of the proprietors of the Mercury to such
an extent that his guffaw roused Dr. Butler.
“ Order ! order! ” said the Speaker, and Braddon,
the only man in the House (except the Speaker)
who had not moved a muscle over the episode,
went calmly on and scarified the Reibeyites.
Braddon, by the way-, laid at this time the
foundation of his popularity by painting the
scenery for the first performance (amateur) of
“ Pinafore ” in Hobart, and by taking the part, con
amove, of Dick Deadeye. His hornpipe in the
piece was “ the best thing he ever did in Tas-
mania.”


Australian Mutual
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy Chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P. ; ROBT. J. KING, E<q.
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ANNUAL INCOME ... ... ... Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS ... ... Twelve Millions and a-Half Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1894 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to over ±423,021
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £850,000.
Head Office: 8 V PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
A. GrOod Carver wants a good knife. We think we have
as good a stock of Cutlery as any house
in Sydney, and we want your opinion
about our think Call on us if you
want anything in triß line, or anything
else in Hardware. Have just landed
the new L.E. and C. Bread Knife, which
is a revelation, price 1/3 —the old style
has now got to go. Razors, hollow
ground, from 1/6 upwards.
MXean Bros. & Higg latcl., 512-14 (leorge-st., Sydney.
PARKERS
Australian Hair Preserver.
Those who use it will never
become Bald.
It entirely removes Dandruff.
* * *
It promotes the G-rowth of the
Hair.
* * *
Ladies will find it a perfect
boon; it is not a dye—it
is not sticky or greasy.
One trial will convince the
most sceptical.
This pure and excellent
remedy is now under Vice-
Regal patronage, and is used
by leading ladies of the colony
with most gratifying results.
If not procurable from your Chemist or Storekeeper, SAMPLE BOTTLE will be sent to you on
receipt of 3/6 in Money Order or Stamps. Testimonials from well-known citizens forwarded on
application to
J. CURTIN, Sole Agent, 84 Market Street, SYDNEY.
niifie
pnud
486,488&490 CE0RCE STREET. SYDNEY.
TRABE MARK
Fey
fhe m
mMk
AUSTRAL CLOTHIERS & OUTFITTERS.
SAC SUIT
To Measure,
FROM
KAIAPOI, OAMAEU, GEELONG,
SCOTCH, and Best
N.S.W. TWEEDS, SKRGERETTE,
INDIGO SERGES,
BLACK and BLUE CORKSCREWS.
Boys’ Unrivalled School Suits 4/11
(50 different Patterns)
Boys’ Blue Serge Sailor Suits 4/11
(Trimmed Gold or Black)
H3T - The Largest Juvenile Clothing Stock in the
Southern Hemisphere.
BEST QUALITIES at LOWEST PRICES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST, PATTERNS, TAPE and MEASURE FORM.
All Parcels Carriage Paid by Boat, Rail or Post.
DBO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haula 30.
ST K \ M
Cultivatin j
Machiner u.
t i
'
r-‘' 7 >. rri_L
Tr*a, ct i o n,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
JiOAD ROLLERS.
Fo table Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPE I, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
11 A\) COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY .
WANTEIi .M. NOAKI'.S, M.f.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL E-JGIIJ-E.
WHITELAW & CO.,
155 Swanston-street, Melbourne, BOOT & SHOE MANUFACTURERS,
On receipt of remittance forward, carriage paid to any address in Vic oria (other colonies, 1/- extra),
any of their specialties in Boots and Shoes, catalogues of which will
be sent on application. Their Hand-made Boots do not cr< ak, a e
flexible in the sole, have no nails, pegs, or tacks whateve to wound
the foot, they do not require bi caking in, being smooth and clean
inside.
The RATIONAL, a strong, serviceable country boot ... 16/
~ UNIVERSITY, a town walking and business boot ... 21/-
~ HORSE-SKIN, a wide-welt, first class -winter boot ... 22/6
~ Ameiican-dressed Russia and Ooze Calf Boots ... 21/
MACHIN K-SEWN BOOTS from 10s. 6d.
Whether you live one mile or
1000 away, we guarantee to fit
you. Our Self - measurement
System is perfect. Write us for
Patterns. Self - measurement
Forms and Tape. Free i ostal
delivery any distance. Serges
specially manufacl ur d for us by
one of the leading home houses
from 455.
S. M. BAUM ASHE,
Manager.
London & Melbourne Tailoring Co.,
31 & 33 Erskine Street. SYDNPIY.
Suits "to
Measure,
455.
Business Announcements.
A Revolution in Dentistry.
A COMPLETE SET ONE GUINEA.
TEETH
TEETH
TE.:,TH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
FBETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
TEETH
THE
London Dental Institute
93 King Street, SYDNEY-
UPPER OR LOWER SETS FITTED BY
ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION.
The Most Complete System of Painless
Dentistry in the World.
Soft Palates for Tender Gums.
PERMANENT, LIFELIKE APPEARANCE
and MASTICATION Guaranteed.
All Work Warranted 10 Years.
Dr. HACKETT writes“ The London Dental Institute
have one of the largest praotici sin the world. . . The
scale on which they work enables them to employ both
capital and labor in the most eff clive and economical
way, and content themselves w-ith a reasonable profit on
each individual transaction. Bein'; able to keep their
chairs full from morning to night, they can employ the
most highly skilled operators and the hest materials.
They can do everything that science and experience
suggest to satisfy every customer.”
Jgg" Book on Dentistry Free on Application.
98 King Street, Sydney, 2 doors from Pitt-st.
THE ONLY ADDRESS.
AARONS' EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
slnA E 1, *, s. w ALE S.
m
rty&Sß
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
MR. AUBREY DAVIS, Dentist, of 492 George-
street (Royal Arcade), SYDNEY, has spared no
expense in fitting-up his luxurious consulting rooms with
the latest dental appliances. The Operating Chair is a
work of art, in which the patient can be raised, lowered,
or placed in any required position by hydraulic power.
Extraction is performed painlessly without Ether or
Chloroform, by spraying the gum with a new local
anesthetic—“ Chloride of Ethyl.” Artificial teeth of the
best quality are fitted at prices not much more than half
the rates commonly charged a few years ago.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 GEORGE STREET.
S Y D U E Y.
Specialties JUST ARRIVED for the XMAS
Trade.
H. Li. Hutchinson ... Manager.
mHE LAST OE SIX
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE with a COLONIAL COMPANY.
THE '
City Mutual Fire
INSIItANCi: COMPANY, Limited.
HEAD
OFFICE
OS
Pitt Street
Sydney.
Chairman:
JOHN SEE Esq., M.P. (late Colonial Treasurer.)
The CITY MUTUAL Eire Company is a purely
Australian institution, having a large and in-
fluential body of shareholders, all closely identified
with and contributing to the prosperity of Aus-
tralia. All funds invested in the colony. Rates
are lowest. Settlements prompt and equitable.
A Cash Bonus paid Insurers every year.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
OS’ Transacts FIRE insurance business ONLY.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1895, viz., <£B47B —divided
with Policy-holders—is now payable on renewal
of policies, making <£82,053 divided in cash
between Policy-holders and Shareholders in 13
years.
Fire Insurance at lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
RESERVE & INVESTMENT FUNDS, £117,020.
UNCALLED CAPITAL, £75,000.
PURELY a COLONIAL OFFICE, deriving
its income from New South Wales only, no risks
being taken outside the colony.
A BONUS of 20 PER CENT, has been paid
annually since 1873, divided between Policy-
holders and Shareholders. The amount thus dis-
tributed totals £118,651.
Claims promptly and liberally settled. FIF-
TEEN DAYS’ GRACE allowed for Renewal
of Policies—a protection afforded by no other
Fire Insurance Company.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, M.L.C., Chairman.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Oefice:
Corner Pitt & King Streets, Sydney.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Passenger Policies for Travellers In-
suring against Accidents & Shipwreck.
Australian Branch: VV. M'Millan, M.P., Director.
Adelaide: P. P. Plummer. L. A. Jessop, Director.
Melbourne: D. Clynk. Brisbane: T. VVelsby.
J. J. Allen, Manager for Australia,
58 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
*
k
A
XT
.. ..
as
appeared here^and^hM^w^i'»!•* ® veryw here spoken of as the finest plug-tobacco that has evt i
anything previously This is no idfif 1 "^ 688 durln £ the short time it has been on the market than
there are few towns in N.S.W. where “YANKEE DOODLE” ? ,riok . er . can test tbe statement, for
has this vear increaser! nearly u, j i is not known and sold. Its sale
Simply that “YANKEE DOODT E” itf' I°° i P fk ° enfc i° Ver that of last year. And why is this?
years of careful studv , . , Stru ° k the P°P« lar ta ste. In the first place, it comes, after
exquisitely flavoured any snX'rwhn f Ce !i fcai ? cllol f e Virginian tobaccos, so blended and
forced to admit that he has ‘at'last discovered S fi?'- nd t toba S co heavier than the pure gold-leaf is
been accustomed to. DIXSON & SONS have f f r ,f nd away better than anything he has
their leading business has be, n hnilr ~ h ?i• fcken ‘ 3V ? r haU-a-century to accomplish this; and, as
make the fTy ° b
than all the other Tobacco E-.otv ;L existed. IXIA SON & SONS, who use more American leaf
QUEROR,” “ SIR “ fdT AMPtAT/V- are 1 n °^ l f,,r high-dns* brands :-“CON-
ranks supreme. ’ CHAMPT °N/’ and “ DOLLAR;” but “ YANKEE DOODLE'


The Bulletin
Registered, at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 17.—N0. 839.
SATURDAY, MARCH 14, 1896.
Prick, 6d.
TRIAL BY LETTERS.—A BARRTSTER’S DREAM.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newsnaner.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for T-e Be lettn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 d
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 iS 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
■which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal A ote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian produce,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted -
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding Uvo columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded, as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But. we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that,
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but. Unfitted for direct, reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. 'The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Elect Street, E.C. ; Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus : Street & Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. —lt A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal : The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.—lF. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queensland,
S. Australia, Westralia and Maori/and.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales is now £l. with 3s. 2d.
added for postage. England £l, with 6s. 6d. added for
postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
SATURDAY, MARCH 14, 1896.
Elective J’s P.
As the “revelations” continue to come in,
Australia wonders more and more how the
present J.P. system ever came to be invented
or tolerated. It has probably passed muster
because the public attention was never drawn
to all its rottenness and iniquity at once, and
because the utter illogicalness of it hasn’t
been seriously considered. Yet the system
is about the strangest, most foolish and most
wrong-headed that could be imagined, and
its bad features stick out and fester so con-
spicuously, that how they ever escaped atten-
tion even for a moment is a mystery. Aus-
tralian law is admittedly an intricate affair
which few lawyers even understand to any
great extent. It is based on English law,
and English law is largely an accumulation
of precedents and mysteries which began a
little after the time of Barabbas, and
has been accumulating ever since. England
never made a completely fresh start with
its code as France did in the time of
Napoleon ; there is no point a reasonable
distance off where the law definitely begins
or beyond which it is needless to go. Any
forgotten statute of the Tudors or Stuarts
or Plantagenets which wasn’t formally re-
pealed because no one remembered to repeal
it, or which was repealed so long ago that
the fact of its repeal has been lost sight of,
may still be turned up to tangle this country’s
jurisprudence and reduce its justice to chaos.
And because Australian law is one of the
hardest things in this world to understand it
is largely administered by publicans, squat-
ters, farmers, and storekeepers, who are not
even alleged to know anything about it.
Laws are made with great care and weariness
and elaboration and legal scrutiny, and then
the backblocks grazier named Smith is
put on to run the machine anyhow he pleases.
* * ♦ »
The fact that the J.P., as a rule, knows no
law and doesn’t pretend to know any, would
not in itself, however, be a bar to his adminis-
tering a reasonable amount of justice. In
fact, the less law a man knows the more jus-
tice he is likely to administer, if he is inclined
that way. The best qualifications for a
;u gistrate are a clear brain, a logical mind,
and incorruptible integrity ; and, given these
qualities, his ignorance of the muddled
statutes matters comparatively little. About
one man in a million, possibly, possesses
these qualifications, and a good many more
have moderately clear brains and just enough
integrity to go straight if they have an in-
terest in not going crooked. Under the
present system, however, the J.P. is care-
fully selected with a view to giving him
every possible inducement to be as crooked
as he pleases. The law-makers are selected
by the people, or by some of them ; they
have each a salary and a free pass, and a
chance of a Ministerial portfolio; and the
reason why they should not be too glaringly
dishonest or too conspicuously imbecile is
the danger of losing the salary and dignity
and free pass and the chance of a portfolio,
and various other prospects. The law-
makers appoint the Ministry, more or less,
and the reason why the Ministry should look
moderately honest, and should conceal its
imbecility as much as possible, is that,
unless it does so, its position and its
salary will both be short - lived. And the
casual Ministry, which is only supposed
to be partly honest because if it isn’t it will
be thrown out, and which is watched by a
Legislature which is only trusted to do its
duty because it is also liable to be thrown
out, appoints the J.P., who is practically
irremoveable, and may sell or pervert j ustice
with impunity all his life, provided he does
it with a reasonable amount of discretion.
* * * *
The man who makes the laws is directly
and constantly responsible to his consti-
tuents, and the Ministers are directly
responsible to their individual constitu-
encies, to the Legislature, and to the nation
at large. The man who administers the
laws, or doesn’t administer them, or adminis-
ters them wrongly, is not directly responsible
to anybody. He is appointed, in the vast
majority of cases, by persons who don’t
know him personally—who can’t tell whether
he is or is not a drunkard, a man of loose
life, an impecunious individual under the
thumb of money-lenders or banks, an
ignoramus, an individual of violent temper
and aggressive prejudices, whether he is deaf,
somnolent, stupid, bigoted, or otherwise unfit
for the position. However good its intentions,
no Ministry can be personally acquainted
with the qualifications of every remote store-
keeper or farmer or squatter or auctioneer
whom it appoints to serve out justice to a
suffering community, probably for the term
of his natural life, therefore its appointments
are made practically at random. And the
J.P., thus appointed, is, according to pre-
cedent, only removeable upon direct and
reliable evidence of corruption or utter in-
capacity. The man who creates him can be
removed without any direct evidence what-
ever, on the broad ground that he has failed
to give satisfaction ; the thing created can’t
be. The J.P. is not appointed because he
knows the law, or because he has proved his
ability in .other capacities ; he is not kept
straight by the knowledge that he has a
salary and an important position to lose
by misconduct—for J’sP. are so plentiful
that they have ceased to be impor-
tant ; he is a gratis individual throw-
ing judgments about at random in remote
districts afar from public observation with
nothing but his integrity to keep him honest,
and, therefore, he is appointed on a system
which offers no guarantee that he has any
integrity whatever.
* * * *
In a vast, thinly-peopled country, where,
to bring justice within easy reach of every-
body, the number of magistrates must be
very large in proportion to the population, a
wholly-paid magistracy is almost impracti-
cable. The next-best substitute is un-
doubtedly a magistracy elected for a fixed
term by the people. If the people can be
trusted to elect the men who elect the other
men who appoint the cheap and incapable
administrator of the law, they can be much
better entrusted with the duty of making
that appointment direct. And if the people
who now appoint the unpaid autocrat of the
back-blocks bench can’t be trusted to be
honest except under constant fear of expul-
sion at next election, there is no reason why
their appointee should be trusted on any
wider basis. The question of elected J’sP.
has no relation to that of elected Judges.
The Judge is chosen mainly on the strength
of his legal knowledge, and the mass of the
people, knowing practically no law, are wholly
unfitted to express an opinion on his
qualifications. The J.P. is not expected to
start with any legal knowledge. What
is most wanted, in his case, is that he
shall be sober, moderately clean-living, in-
telligent, unprejudiced ; that he won’t have
too many local relations, or, at least, won’t
decide too frequently in their favor ; that he
won’t be a bigot of any special kind, unless
the district really wants that special kind of
bigot ; that he won’t be in circumstances
which compel him always to decide in favor
of the local money-lender or banker ; that
he won’t always decide his own case in his
own favor, or run his harem too obtrusively,
or take money from litigants in payment for
his decisions. By making the J.P. an
elective officer, his appointment will rest
with the people who know him, and are,
there o"e, best able to decide whether he
has the needful qualifications ; and if they
elect a man who hasn’t, they will be them-
selves the principal sufferers. At present
his appointment rests almost solely with the
people who don’t know him, and the results
are just what might be expected.
The J.P., in his own small way, is the
most complete despot in Australia. He
bosses the far-back districts where news-
papers are few and press influence limited,
and his amazing decisions in favor of his son
and his brother-in-law are seldom heard of in
the distant capital. His decisions, in nine
cases out of ten, are beyond appeal, because
appeals from the wilds where the J.P. prin-
cipally rages are much too expensive for the
great majority. He is created mostly by
people who never saw him, and never heard
of him previous to his appointment, and who
know no more of his qualifications to infest
the bench than they know of the hanging-
gardens of Babylon. He is supposed to
possess qualities only to be found in one
man out of a thousand, yet he is appointed
in droves on the principle that any man or
any four or five hundred men are good
enough to be entrusted for life with
power over the community at large. He
can’t be removed unless some very gross
case of maladministration is definitely
proved against them, and there are hun-
dreds of such cases for one that can be
clearly demonstrated. The only people who
can shift him are far away and hard to move,
and, by reason of their remoteness, are
mostly unacquainted with the small acts of
tyranny which make up the sum of the bush
J.P.’s iniquity, and the fact that he is re-
movable by an over-worked Minister, per-
haps 400 miles distant, who doesn’t know of
his existence, and has no time to consider
his doings, and who isn’t bound to consider
them unless it pleases him to do so, is a very
indifferent check upon him. The directly-
elected justice might not be a great success,
but he could not possibly be worse than the
present one, who is elected at third hand.
Moreover, under a system of direct election,
each community would get just as good, or
as bad, a set of magistrates as it deserved to
have, and would keep them just as long as it
deserved to have them.
The Skeleton Out of the Closet!
Amongst the “ right merry conceits ” credited
to Sydney Smith, not the least whimsical was
his wish, during what we now call a “ heat-
wave,” that he could “ take off his flesh and
sit in his bones.” But, were the Genial Canon
alive to-day, he would have to recognise, as
amongst the near possibilities of the new pho-
tography, the presentation of himself as having
actually got rid of all but his osseous frame-
work. The humorous exaggeration of one gene-
ration is often the sober reality of the next,
but never before, perhaps, has a scouted ab-
surdity become a demonstrated actuality with
the swiftness of the Routgen photographic
process.
* * * *
What may not yet be accomplished through
the agency of the mysterious “ X rays,” it is
impossible to say, but a long vista of weird
possibilities is opened up by the fact that an
adventurous Austrian pressman has had his
skull photographed through the intervening
flesh. The pictorial result, it is true, nearly
scared him out of his wits, but this is an effect
which is certain to become rarer in proportion
as the practice becomes more common. The
reason for the horrific effect of the human skull
is not far to seek. One skull, no doubt,
differeth somewhat from another in gruesome-
ness. When the brain-case is lofty, the fore-
head upright, the lower jaw small, and the
teeth vertically set, the ensemble is distinctly
less uncanny. But, even at the best, the skull
presents such a grotesque travesty of the flesh-
clothed countenance—it is “so near, and yet
so far !”—-that hardly one man in a hundred is
able to contemplate it in its pure objectivity as
a mere skilfully-adjusted combination of bones.
* * * *
But if, as will very probably be the case, it
becomes customary to photograph the cranium
of the living person, with a view to the dis-
closure of structural peculiarities not otherwise
apparent, this psycho-sentimental shrinking
will gradually diminish until a skull will give
rise to little more serious perpension than a
boiled turnip. The religious ascetic, perhaps,
might find even a more sombre impressiveness
in the photograph of his own death’s-head than
in the polished head-piece of a long-defunct
somebody else; but, in the outside world, the
mortality-bogey would be speedily at a dis-
count. Familiarity would breed contempt,
and no man who got accustomed to the
photograph of his own skeleton —elegantly
framed above the drawing-room mantel—would
care twopence for the doleful epitaphic re-
minder that he, too, must some day be resolved
into his chemical constituents. “ More than
all, says Charles Lamb, “ do I conceive dis-
gust at the impertinent and misbecoming
familiarities inscribed upon your ordiuary tomb-
stone. Not a dead man, forsooth, but must
take upon him to be lecturing me with his
odious truism that ‘ such as he is, I must shortly
be ! Not so shortly, perhaps, friend, as thou
fanciest ! And, in the meantime, I am alive ; I
walk about; I am worth twenty of thee ’
Know thy betters ! ”
* * * *
Ibis is looking at the matter right-side-up
and it is exactly the feeling thus quaintly ex-
pressed which would be vastly promoted by
the frequent contemplation of one’s own osseous
scaffolding.
* * * * *
As an antidote for the fever of love, also, what
possibilities reside in osseo-photography ! The
historical actor—endeavoring, by the simulation
of beastly drunkenness, to cure a romantic
miss of her infatuation with himself— was not
half so certain of success as would be the damsel
who should seek to choke off an undesirable
admirer by piesenting him with her skull and
compliments. As things stand at present that
is, for it is not impossible that, with increasing
custom, matters may go so far in the opposite
l!" t>o , 10,1 "r™ ex ” !ja <>f cranial P pho!,„
H '’me a necessary preliminary to
T IT 10 '- ,lua,e * L —I fear we
shall have to part. Papa says that the fleshi-
ness of your forehead must have quite con-
cealed the unpromising peculiarity, but that no
daughter of his house shall marry a man with
such prominent superciliary ridges as appear in
the photograph of your skull.”
* * * *
Candidates for office, also, might be required
to submit pictures of their noddles “in the
nude,” and it isn’t very hard to imagine the
enlarged photograph of a Parliamentary candi-
date’s skull displayed upon a banner and
paraded by the other side with the inscription :
“ Are you going to vote for this?” or, “Is this
gorilla fit to make laws for men ? ” The skulls
of Government officials, also J’sP., municipal
dignitaries, and the like, would make ad-
mirable subjects for the wood - penetrating
photographic process ; and the appearance of
Fat Man’s heart upon a plate which should
image only the hardest portions of the interior,
might settle the question as to whether or not
that organ is, in his case, actually of granitic
formation.
* * * *
Carlyle’s quaint speculation as to the effect
which would be produced at some gorgeous
function by the sudden disappearance of all
clothes, falls flat in view of the possible future
removal, at one stroke, of both garments and
flesh. We may live to look upon a photo-
graphic realisation of the Dance of Skeletons
in “ Roberto il Diavolo ; ” we may behold the
framework of a Governor opening a Parliament
of phosphates and lime ; or we may witness
the ground-plan of a general reviewdng an im-
posing array of warriors reduced to their
lowest terms and guiltless of a “ pound of
flesh ” amongst them 1
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cheap and Nasty Magistracy.
Some of the most startling evidence given
before the Board which is now inquiring into
the alleged inefficiency and corruption and
favoritism of Victoria’s unpaid magistracy was
that given by certain of the accused J’s.F.
themselves. The average Judge reckons there
is good reason for not adjudicating in a case
when he is a friend or relation of one of the
parties concerned, or owes money to him, or has
other intimate or even distant relations with
him, but the cheap, perambulating J.P. evi-
dently views the matter differently. Also, he
doesn’t seem in the least ashamed of his view.
For example (Age report):
Mr. llexry Berry, J.P., said he had been a magistrate
for 25 years. He had been to the South Melbourne court
on two occasions. He attended to hear and adjudicate in
the charge against Ralph Brown, because the defendant
was minister of his church. . . Defendant had pre-
viously broken his ordination vows by taking part in the
land-boom, and he had something of a prejudice against
him on that account.
Mr. W. D. Garside, J.P., said he had sat chiefly in the
City Court during the last 15 years. He adjudicated in
the case of Ralph Brown, at South Melbourne, because
the defendant was minister of his church.
Mr. W. Strong, Mayor of Melbourne, said he was a
justice, and usually attended the Carlton court. He ad-
judicated at Coburg in the Caton case, and this was the
only time he had been in that court. ... I met Mr.
Caton at the Church of England Assembly, of which body
I am a member. I can’t remember when I first met his
son. My son was acquainted with him.
Mr. W. S. Puckle, J.P., said the only time he had been
to the Coburg court was on the occasion of this case. He
knew the defendant’s father as a clergyman, and sympa-
thised with him in his trouble.
Mr. Henry A. Harwood, J.P., said he had no particular
local court at which he sat. He sat as a rule in cases in
which he took an interest. He usually went to counter-
act the capitalistic element and to represent the labor
interest.
Dr. Henry B. Wilson, J.P., at present residing at
Rutherglen, said that in February, 1892, he lived at i'rah-
ran. He had been a justice 32 years. He only sat once
in the District Court, and that was in connection with the
Foster Brewing Company’s case. His brother was a
partner in the firm of Pavey, Wilson, Cohen & Co., who
were solicitors for the Foster Brewing Company.
George Henry Bennett, M.L.A. for Richmond, and
justice of the peace, submitted himself for examinat.on.
In answer to Mr. Maxwell, he said he knew Mr. M'Crae
personally. Mr. M‘Crak was an old friend of his, and he
was frequently in Mr. M‘Crab’s hotel. Although he
knew Mr. M‘Crae so well, he felt entitled to sit on the
bench and adjudicate in his case.
Edgar Wilkins, M.L.A. for Collingwood, and justice of
the peace, stated he knew Mr. PuPB, the plaintiff in Pope
v. Sullivan, very well. Mr. Pope was a livery-stable
keeper. It was a fact that witness was the joint maker of
a promissory-note for L2OO with Mr. Pope, and he was
jointly concerned with Mr. Pope in that promissory-note
at the time of the action. Witness had a contract of sale
on portion of Mr. Pope’s horses, but that contract did not
extend over the two horses whose use and hire was the
subject of the action.
The charge against Mr. Gooch was that at the Caulfield
court he had adjudicated on a case in which George
Newson was charged with selling liquor without a license,
and Newson had business relations with him at the time.
. . . Henry M. Gooch, wine merchant, stated Newson was
for the sale of his wines. Newson told him he
* la " been summoned for selling beer without a license,
and he did not think he would get justice, because a
certain magistrate was opposed to him and to the issue of
licenses generally. Witness then said he would go on the
bench.
ihese are extracts from only two clays’ “revela-
tions in a case that has lasted for several weeks,
and they are solely the admissions of the J’sP.
themselves. Among those implicated are two
J sP. who came specially to sit on the case of
their own parson (one of them having a preju-
dice against the parson) ; two who came to sit
on the case of a friend’s son ; one who went
round to represent the Labor interest ; one
who only sat once in the District Court and
then on a case in which his brother was solici-
tor to one of the parties ; one J.P, who adjudi-
cated on the case of his own old friend and
political supporter ; one who sat on the case of
a man who was his partner in certain transac-
tions ; and another who sat to administer jus-
tice to his own agent. When all this moral
and judicial “ revelation ” can be got together,
on the magistrates’ own admissions, inside of
two days, what must the whole collection be
like !
A Point of Law.
ihe recent argument in the Dean appeal case
supplied a fine example of the dark profundity
of the law. George Dean committed perjury
by swearing at his trial that he did not adminis-
ter poison to his wife. He was convicted and
sentenced to execution, and thereafter, accord-
ing to law and legal tradition, he was a dead
man—-a corpse—a mere remains. Considering
that the law was going to hang its dead man m
order to kill him, the legal assumption looks
sufficiently foolish Lo the lay observer, but that
is a mere side-issue. Then Dean w r as na.rflnno.l


and became a live man again, and thereafter he
was prosecuted and sentenced as a live man for
the perjury lie had committed when he was
previously alive, before he was legally dead.
1 he appeal against his second conviction was
based on the question—did the Queen, by her
representative, raise Dean from the dead,
like Lazarus, after lie had been deceased in
Darlinghurst for many days, or did she
make a new Dean out of the ashes of
the old one or some other material unspecified ?
A large number of people congratulated and
gave good advice to Dean after his release, on
the assumption that he was the same man, and
he went back to his ferry-boat on that basis,
and did many other things. But his lawyer
solemnly contended that he was an altogether
new Dean made by the Sovereign on the
advice of G. H. Reid, at the instigation of
Crick and Meagher and the North Shore
Defence Committee, and that the new Dean,
being a different person, wasn t responsible for
anything done by the old one ; and it took
three expensive Judges and a considerable out-
lay in judicial salaries. Crown law officials’
salaries, wages of court functionaries, interest on
the cost of the law courts, parchment, red-tape,
gas, money paid for copying documents, and
miscellaneous outlays, to decide that he really
was the same person. And the patient com-
munity paid the bill for all this murky subtlety,
as the patient community always does. The
law spends very little time over the mere jus-
tice of a case, but the amount of labor it wastes
in trying to decide whether some ordinary thing
is legally what everybody knows it to be, or
whether in point of law it isn’t something else
which everybody knows that it is not and
never was, is prodigious. If the legal
gentleman who argued the point did his own
daily business in the same fashion it would
take him all day to get his clothes on in the
morning through the necessity for first of all
arriving at a legal definition of his own pants
before he got into them, and proving incon-
trovertibly that they weren’t really an ink-
bottle, and, therefore, a thing that couldn’t be
got into. But even a lawyer is only learnedly
asinine in matters of law' ; in his own private
affairs he takes things as they are like any
other man.
The Lormer enquiry shows plainly that a dis-
graceful piece of bench-packing took place at
Coburg (Melb.) when a parson’s son was on
trial for an “ age of consent ” charge, a couple
of years ago. Orange and Church of England
J’sP. were hunted up from every quarter, and
when the Court opened 15 strangers were as-
sembled in the magistrates’ room. However,
had a committal taken place there was not the
slightest possibility of a conviction at a higher
court. In fact, it is difficult to understand how
a warrant was obtained for the young fellow’s
arrest. The alleged victim was first found
absolutely nude in a rail way-carriage at Flin-
ders-street station. She then gave a graphic
account of how she had been outraged by a
fellow passenger during the journey from Bala-
clava, minutely describing the alleged ruffian.
As there seemed a deal too much detail in
the description, and as there is a station
every half - mile or so along the route
stated, the detectives made a few perti-
nent enquiries, with the result that the
young lady admitted her story to be a figment
of her imagination, and substituted another
about a totally different man assaulting her
before she took train. This scoundrel was also
detailed down to his waistcoat-buttons, but a
few' further questions caused the girl to with-
draw the second narrative also and lay a charge
against the son of the parson in whose house
she officiated as servant. Nothing happened to
the sweet innocent—nothing keeps on happen-
ing to such as she, with the exception of the
Gunnedah young lady now doing two years’
hard.
The Matthew Davies scandal will not be
allowed to rest in its unhonored grave whilst
lawyer David Gaunson remains above-ground.
Gaunson exhumes the corpse of the Mercan-
tile Bank case about six times a year on an
average, and calls it disgraceful evidence of a
vile conspiracy to annoy an innocent attorney.
Fat Man whispers “ Sssh ! ” in the advocate’s
unblushing ear, but he talks away all the
same. Last week Gaunson bounced and
twitted magistrate Lormer into appearing
before his own Enquiry Board to explain why
he dared to sit in police-court judgment
on the Mercantile Bank case after having
presided over a public meeting whereat
Bryan O’Loghlen’s notorious nole prosequi
was denounced. The Board would fain
have ignored Gaunson’s ravings, nevertheless
he scored his point, which was to reassert the old
fiction that Matthew Davies ought not to have
been committed for trial a second time, and
would not have been sent up but for Lormer’s
wicked presence on the bench. Judge Wil-
liams, the chairman of the Enquiry Board,
might very well have exposed the arrant
humbug of David Gaunson in this matter.
Lormer’s action in sitting on the Bench
in the Davies case after presiding over
a public meeting hostile to Davies was
most indecent; but, all the same, what
Lormer did towards securing the ultimate
(and abortive) trial of Matthew Davies was
due in the interests of justice and public de-
cency. There was a strong prima facie case
against the boomster when Attorney-General
O’Logiilen set it aside. And, as regards the
second hearing of that case, on which Messrs.
Nicholson, P.M., and Lormer decided in
favor of Davies’s committal for trial, the
Criminal Court Judge (Hood) said that it
was a proper decision, which, by the way, was
about the only thing unfavorable to Davies
spoken by Justice Hood aforesaid throughout
the trial. Every intelligent person knows that
Lormer acted rightly, but many Victorian
persons are unintelligent; also a lot of them
are brazen rogues, and these cannot be too
often told that Gaunson has been a mere noisy
barracker for the acquitted Matthew Davies
from the first.
Wellington (M.L.)Post remarks that “Sydney
is now practically a free port. . . . There
has been a marvellous revival of trade since the
new policy was decided upon, and unless the
other colonies are wise enough to follow its
example,” etc., etc. There has been a mar-
vellous revival of trade, but unluckily it has
been wholly in the matter of imports. In three
days of last week 10,000 tons of foreign grain
and flour—some of it from leprous China —and
nearly 1,500,000ft. of foreign timber were
dumped into Sydney, and meanwhile the local
farmers, millers and timber-getters are going
steadily downhill. It is time somebody said
something really severe about the stupid theory
that a great increase in shipping at any port is
necessarily a sign of prosperity. According to
this theory the biggest boom at any port within
recent times was that at Vera Cruz in ’64, when
three foreign fleets came along and landed an
invading army, and thereby about trebled the
shipping business inside six months, and made
the trade something enormous. Whether a
foreign fleet comes along to land foreign pro-
ducts and kill local industries, or to land foreign
soldiers and kill the local inhabitants, it means
just about the same amount of prosperity.
In N.S. Wales, where private enterprise has a
monopoly of the coal-mining industry, public
sentiment is, to some extent, in favor
of nationalising the mines. In Westralia,
where the only thoroughly-proved coal area
is the property of the State, the Govern-
ment has decided to give up its monopoly
and hand over the field to private enter-
prise. The Collie coalfield has been developed
at considerable expense by the State. The
seams have been tested and proved of consider-
able extent. The coal, though not fit for gas-
making, is of sufficiently good quality for steam-
ing purposes. The Government had reserved
10,000 acres, which constituted the field. A rail-
way connecting it with the main system had been
authorised. There was an opportunity to avoid
the evils w'hich have attended private ownership
of coal-mines in other provinces. Instead, the
Government calls in “ private enterprise,” the
chief deity of Westralia. The Government is
not going to sell the field, or even to submit it
to competitive lease ; it merely announces that
there is to be on a certain day a glorious
scramble for leases, in which anyone may take
part. In any other province the public would
rage at this prospect, but in Westralia the
situation calls for public felicitation. Let the
coalfields be worked anyhow, they say, so long
as the Government does not work them. They
would cheerfully see the Department of Mines
and the Post and Telegraph Departments
farmed out to joint-stock companies. No more
Government enterprise for them.
Dear Bulletin, —The correspondent who, in
your issue of Feb. 16, attacks Melb. University,
quotes the Chancellor as saying :—
It was against the policy of the University to grant
class scholarships. For that reason the council had
refused an offer of £30,000 from Dr. Graves to endow a
scholarship for Oddfellows and their sons, and an offer hy
Mr. Cameron of £20,000 to endow a scholarship for pupils
from the Western district.
It was Dr. Greeves, not “ Graves,” who
wished to found an Oddfellows’ scholarship.
Dr. Greeves had for some time held the highest
office in the M.U.I.O.O.F., and on his retirement
therefrom a purse of sovereigns was subscribed
by his friends, which he declined to accept. At
the same time he suggested that the money
should go to found a University scholarship for
Oddfellows’ sons. The actual money subscribed
and offered was not ,£30,000, but £500. Again,
it was a Mrs. Cameron, not “Mr.,” who
wished to found a Western District scholarship.
She offered not £20,000, but £2500. Thus
“ F.’s ” total of £50,000 shrinks to £3000. The
reason of these refusals was sound and demo-
cratic—a determination that every University
prize should be open to every student, without
distinction. “Close” scholarships have never
existed in Melbourne University—I hope they
never will. Were the University to grant a
dozen scholarships to State scholars only, they
would certainly be class scholarships, inasmuch
as boys and girls educated at other schools or
at home would not be eligible to compete. No
true democrat would deliberately deprive
a very large section of the population of a
share in the advantages of a public institution
half of whose income comes out of the general
revenue. “F.” tries to make out that the
University does all it can to keep the working
man’s boy down. Does “F.” know that a
Melb. lady offered four “ Louise ” scholarships
of £40 a year each for girls wishing to enter
the medical profession, who had never attended
a State school ? Does he know that the Uni-
versity refused them point-blank ? What a
howl “ F.” and his like would have set up had
those been accepted ! The University’s fixed
determination is the clear and simple principle
of “ equal rights to all.” Certainly the State
was not consulted before the Greeves and
Cameron offers were declined, for the very
good reason that the University is a self-
governing corporation, established as such by
Act of Parliament and royal letters patent.
Further, the Council never rejected the Greeves
and Cameron gifts. As a fact, the Council
accepted in both but the Senate or Uni-
versity Lower House, consisting of all the male
graduates, democratically refused to break the
principle of “ no class or close prizes.” To sum
up, “ F.” is wrong in his names, in his amounts,
in his history, and in his logic.
J.S.R.
The Science of Morality.
EditorBulletin, —“Heretic’s” pseudo-science
leads him into obvious contradictions. “ One
man, many women,” necessarily implies “ Some
men, no women ” —that is, the rich may “ flit
from sex-flower to sex-flower,” while the poor
practise continence—unless, indeed, the poor
adopt the “ One woman, many men ” plan with
its resultant evils. There is no escape from
this conclusion, unless “ Heretic ” has a scheme
for diminishing the proportion of male babies
born. Therefore the man who excuses himself
on the plea that he is “not normally con-
structed to confine his sexual relations to a
single individual,” must either resort to pro-
miscuity himself or force other men to put up
with the tenth or twentieth of a mate. We all
know that this is what happens.
• * * »
“ Brigham Brown ” is utterly out of date in
his scientific smatterings. He confounds
“virility” with “lust.” The notorious fact
of the frequent appearance of lust in the last
stages of consumption might have warned him.
Uncontrolled and uncontrollable desire for
sexual indulgence is not at all a mark of healthy
development, but usually a result of disease, in
most cases inherited—a taint in the blood.
Modern up-to-date scientific investigation shows
that what most young men (poor devils) imagine
to be evidence of “ red-bloodedness,” is usually
but the incipient stages of satyriasis. All the
pleas about “ healthy animalism,” and so forth,
fall to the ground, in face of the overwhelming
evidence at last being accumulated on this
topic by Science, resolved to see things as they
are and to state them plainly.
* * « *
More “plain English” is needed on this
matter. Man is an animal truly, but he is the
something more which allows him to become a
satyr. That something more is the develop-
ment of a brain of which the sexual centre may
become diseased. When mind comes into the
problem, the trouble begins, for that which
satisfies the animal instinct does not necessarily
satisfy the human animal. With all but the
lowest men—lowest biologically —“ Brigham
Brown’s ” ethereal aroma of love constitutes a
necessary condition of satisfaction. Hence it
may safely be said that the sexual act is
healthy for animals cursed with reason only
when it is wholly satisfactory. Promiscuity,
prostitution, sacrifice of the woman to the man
in any shape, destroys the pleasure anticipated
and, by destroying it, renders the act un-
healthful. The truth of the first part of this
proposition is known by experience to most
men. The second is just beginning to be taught
by science.
* » * »
The terrible tragedy of most young men’s
lives is unsatisfied desire. They are not aware
that this is abnormal, a result of peripheral or
cerebral disturbances, a disease, in fact, set up
by hereditary transmission, or by indulgence in
lust— i.e., physical indulgence without mental
satisfaction, and fostered by all the circumstances
of modern, and especially of city, life. As with
the victim of alcohol or narcotics, the sufferer
naturally asks, and finds, relief in indulgence,
ignorant that he is but fanning a fire that grows
by what it feeds on. His last state is consider-
ably worse than his first, as all brain-doctors,
nervous specialists and lunacy-practitioners
could testify, if prophesying smooth things
were not an essential of their success. “ Crack-
brained apostles of asceticism ” there may be,
but modern science is on the side of their main
contention. As a matter of hard fact, the
remedy lies, not in forcible repression of the
abnormal and unnatural desire that is the out-
come of a diseased mind in a diseased body, but
in the attainment of physical health by diet
and regimen so as to reduce the physical
stimuli to normal proportions, and in the
practice of control by the will of the brain-
centre in which most of the mischief is usually
seated.
♦ * * *
Again, it is curious that the lust of blood—not
the vigor that impels a man to fight himself,
but the feeling of gratification in the spectacle
of blood-shed—seems to be the result of sexual
degeneracy. Fighting oneself for a great cause
or indeed any reasonable cause, may be, and
generally is, a sign of “ virility,” but delight
in the purposeless shedding of blood is. very
often one result of induced abnormal condition
in the sexual brain-centre. “ Brigham Brown ”
will find plenty of evidence on this point in the
awful work of I)r. R. von Krafft-Ebing, which
has gone through seven editions in Germany
and is the last word of science on a subject of
which too little is widely known. According to
the view of science, the average spectator at a
prize-fight would do much better to consult a
doctor, than to lay the flattering unction to his
soul that he is at the normal standard of
virility. The plainer the talk on the subject
the better, I repeat, but let us have the whole
truth, and reject antiquated theories that will
not stand the tests of modern investigation.
“Brigham Brown’s” teaching will inevitably
be taken as an exhortation to the worship of
Priapus, and that is worse than a crime—it is
a blunder. —]
H. H. CHAMPION.
Vale, Parkes!
Dear Bulletin, —Australia witnessed the politi-
cal extinction of Parkes at Waverley—an appro-
priate place for burials. Strange as have been
his many resuscitations, the veteran, having
utterly lost his judgment, must now be regarded
as politically dead. What Lowell calls “the
beneficent prolongation and adjournment of old
age” has come to border perilously on senility.
It was one of the most pitiful of blunders or
cowardly of jokes to have dragged this relic of a
forceful personality forward like a pantaloon, to
be harassed by the political clowns and harlequins
and subjected to indignities which humane men
would not put upon an old horse that had dragged
a milk-cart in their service.
• * * *
But perhaps the most cruel phase of this contest
was the manner in which the octogenarian’s
former tools were turned into weapons against
him. Some of these were men whose acquirement
of public position was as mysterious as the
apparition of the joey (I do not refer to Joey
Carruthers) on the teat of the maternal kangaroo.
There he is, but how he got there Heaven only
knows. Some owed their political fortunes, such
as they are, to his taste for meek and worm-like
nobodies. But even political worms, one now
sees, sometimes turn. The bitterest anguish of
the defeated old man must have been the contem-
plation of the fact that the sins of his political
youth recoiled upon him—that his life-long
aversion to capable colleagues has deprived him of
the benefits of that generosity which usually dis-
tinguishes intellectual capacity; a generosity
which—all the more honorable because not
merited—would have preserved a decent neutrality
in his last hour of need.
* * * *
The men who should have shielded the former
chief who had lifted them from congenial ob-
scurity to undeserved eminence—shoving better
men aside to do it and thus placing them under a
double obligation—came with indecent, because
unnecessary, to give the weary, tottering old
man a final puln. Not only this, but worse !
They came forward with his own catchwords, and
rode to victory on his own spavined hobby-horses.
“ Freetrade and Good Government ! ” They pur-
loined the cry with which he had so often marched
in with brainless majorities. Those deep springs
of sectarianism from which he so often arose re-
freshed were sucked dry by his opponents. So,
deserted by all but a few ill-advised friends
who seem to do more harm to his reputation
than his deadliest enemies, the old man finally
limps off the political stage. In the past it was
whenever his political fortunes seemed at their
lowest.ebb that he was most dangerous —it was
when he talked most of retiring into private life
that he was crouching to spring most unerringly
back to power. But then he was young—now Old
Age has him in its chilly grip, and decay of body
and mind warn him to trim his lamps for the
Evening.
* * * *
Yet what a great master he was of the small
elements with which he had to deal! In his whole
career there has been always something of great-
ness ; but never anything of pure generosity.
What strange contrasts he has furnished—fierce
selfishness side by side with apparently magnani-
mous disinterestedness; shabby personal mean-
nesses beside courageous political exploits. In
administration, the lofty airs of a Csesar with the
incapacity of a thriftless ploughman ; the lordly-
artistic lavishness of a Lorenzo with the execrable
taste of a pork-butcher become rich. No one but
those who heard him hiss the words, “You b
Fenian ! ” across the table to Jennings would ever,
have believed that the same man could talk beau-
tiful platitudes about “pure hinstitooshuns ”
and the “crimson thread of kinship.” His
treachery to Edward Butler was a great, big, digni-
fied, statesmanlike betrayal. Put that to his
credit. But his action in accepting a wooden cup,
fashioned by a political ally suffering in gaol
through an obstinate, and perhaps wrong-headed,
sense of justice or injustice ; and when he and the
giver stood opposite as opponents, to bring this
from out his unsold collection of curios, and con-
temptuously cast it and its associations in the face
of his opponent on the table of the Assembly, was
one of those little meannesses or mean little-
nesses which but words here fail. Again,
put to his credit this — that he never can
be charged with having felt anything but the
most sovereign contempt for his political Cabinet
puppets. No doubt many a treasured-up insult
has been paid off during the last two years. To
Reid’s credit, be it said, he never took —but
always refused—favor or office from his political
chief. Not so the others, who were thrust, in
cynical caprice, into positions for which they were
unfitted, while the old jester enjoyed the writli-
ings and twistings of their discomfort, and
laughed at the long endurance of the country at
large. Think of the long-bottled-up humiliation
of some of his smaller political foundlings ; of the
raw revolt of the one or two brainy men who got—
apparently by accident —into his Cabinets ! Think
of the pent-up loathing of “ God-fearing ” men who
were compelled to laugh at risqu.6 yarns in solemn
Cabinet meetings—think of the clergy who were
the butt of his commonest jibes in deputations
and public functions, and one can realise what a
load of insult and contumely he has cynically
heaped in pure malevolence upon some of
the weaker brethren who have at last paid
the debt to the uttermost farthing. Perhaps he,
too, was working out a revenge. Think of the
great sulky British peasant conscious of his in-
tellectual superiority, repaying the debt of insult
he owed to many a gilded cad—contracted in days
when N.S. Wales was an exclusive coterie of
cliques—with the cruel waywardness of a monkey
♦ • * *
In the House no other man of our decade ever
led so well. Eternally watchful and alert, he sat
with folded arms, following the sinuosities of
debate, and with unfailing instinct knowing the
right time to intervene. No one could recede
with greater alacrity when peril was near—no one
could better discern the pyschological moment to
declare war. He had all the organ-stops of the
orator and debater, from the dove-like answer which
turneth away wrath to the fierce, beast-like scream
of anger and revenge. He had no originality, and
never pioneered a measure. When the public mind
was ripe, he annexed the measure in a fine
style of high marauding. But of all the
evidences of his political sagacity the most supreme
was his knowledge of the right time to ride for a
fall. Whenever the Treasury was getting empty,
whenever depression or financial trouble glimmered
in the distance, the old man rode for a defeat on
some “ ’igh-sounding ” principle, and let the other
fellows come in for the bad time. Then he bobbed
up serenely, charged the bad time to his opponents,
and, nailing the flag of “Freetrade and Good
Government ” to the mast, sailed back with a
majority. In the walls of Parliament he was a
keen judge of men’s political capacity and of their
possibilities. He rarely made a mistake—-but he
made one. His fatal blunder was in his erroneous
judgment of Reid. He never dreamt that a
jocular club Conservative was a potential reformer;
that “ beneath a gay and frivolous exterior ” there
lurked a possible rival. Now he is too old to
retrieve the mistake. Men die, but phrases live.
Those war-worn cries, “ Freetrade, Good Govern-
ment, Honest Administration,” have proved just
as powerful in the hands of the plagiarists of this
plagiarist as in his own. Even the stale old promise
to “ put an honest yeomanry on the soil ” has been
disinterred. His old colleagues, many of whom
were included in his teams so as to exclude their
intellectual betters, are now actually taken seri-
ously by the public—the ineffably commonplace
Garrards, Goulds and Youngs are accepted as
historical figureheads.
* * * *
So —good-night to Parkes ! As he sowed, so he
reaped. Yet, for all that, the falling off of hench-
men at this time of his decline and fall is more
discreditable to them than to him. Rank ingrati-
tude has been the reward of great ambition. He
may well exclaim, in the words of a better poet
than himself; —
Thou hast sold thy life fora guerdon small
In fitful flashes,
There has been reward, but the end of all
Is dust and ashes.
For the night has come, and it brings to nought
Thy project cherished,
And thine epitaph shall in brass be wrought
“ He lived and perished.”
JAOQUKS.
A carpenter, who applied for a billet on
the Vic. railways, was informed that no less than
5000 names were already on the list.
What has the stiff-bearded saint with the
bit of blue ribbon in his buttonhole to say to the
following by J. K. Jerome:—“Had Mohammed
not shut his followers off from one of the best gifts
of God, had the Turk let his heart be warmed
towards sympathy by the kindly glow of the
wine-cup, Constantinople would not now be the
centre of savagery, and' the drinking nations of
the West would not now be combining to clear out
and cleanse this teetotal corner of Europe. 1
There is something in the theory, perhaps. The
abstemious, dark-skinned races—Turks, Persians,
East Indians, Arabs. Egyptians are all subject
to demoniacal outbreaks, and might have been
much softened and elevated by the liquor habit.
On the other hand, they might have been washed
away by beer ere thin.


EQUITABLE
Society U.S.
Financial Position,
DECEMBER 31, 1894
Assets, £38,550,898
Surplus, £7,787,460
Improvement during Year 1894 :
Increase in Assets,
£3,330,815
In crease in Surjtlus,
£1,065,220
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS.
It has more Assurance in Force,
Does a Larger Business,
Holds a Larger Surplus, than
any other Life Office
in the World.
QELLULAR
„ hosiery
CASHMERE, MERINO, or SILK.
VENTILATED FEET and LEGS.
New Shipment Just Opened-ls. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
These are the only practical ventilators for the feet
People who have suffered all their lives frnm rvtli teet ‘
f n^ d of nasi?
so°cks, ,n q uite e fo“SoSSSSSf *““ ° f the -
CELLULAR PYJAMAS,
DRESS SHIRTS, TENNIS SHIRTS
and all underwear. BmuiS
Pamphlets, Price Lists, and all particulars,
CELLULAR CLOTHING DEPOT,
(New Premises) 334 George-st., SYDNEY
D. B&auam & Co., Sole Agents for N.S.W.
Not a Single Man
*
Jt
n
//!
05
Cigarettes.
has aughflo
\ say against
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ Miss Decima.”
Her Majesty s •• A Transvaal Heroine.”
«°. YAL “ The Lancashire Lass.”
11l VOL! . Rickards’ Variety Co.
Opera House Cogill Bros. ’Specialty Co
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s •* Fedora.”
Ali “ Silence of Dean Mait-
land.”
Alexandra Dan Barry Co.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
“ Miss Decima,” the new opera, burst
upon the public eye at Sydney Lyceum on Satur-
day night in the presence of a crammed house,
which during some of the time was amused, and at
intervals not a little bored. “ Decima ”is long
and weak, and supported by songs the music of
which is commonplace and the words ordinary.
The plot is painfully suggestive of something
wanting. The original motive was cutout because
it would have made the lady portion of the audience
seize its wrap and its bare shoulders and its other
appurtenances and fly madly for the door, calling
for the police and the fire brigade and the Social
Gimlet society as it ran—in other words, the
original motive came out in an absolutely unclothed
state, and in that state it logically led up to what
followed. The present motive is most hideously
respectable and J. Bull-like and has all its clothes
on, and therefore it doesn’t accord a bit with
the partially - dressed consequences that are
hung on to it. A Puritanical maid acci-
dently rolls down
a mountain side
in a perfectly res-
pectable manner,
and is rescued
and carried to a
place of safety
by a man whom
she doesn’t see,
owi n g to her
cloak being over
her head. Then
she goes forth
grilling in one
vast blush to
find this man
and marry him
by force if neces-
sary, and her
reverend father
backs her up
armed with a
white gamp and a
revolver, because,
being a mild and
blushful pair,
they can’t leave
the man wander-
ing about loose
and telling his
story to other
people. They re-
solve, in fact, to
rope him into the
family so that
the old father
may be able
to find him and
dash out his brains with the white gamp at the
shortest notice, if he ever starts telling anybody
how he carried the girl down the rocks in his arms.
The dreadful eagerness of the pair, the constant
desire of the girl to go and blush in secret behind
the piano, and the sleepless fury of the old pur-
suer with the gamp naturally suggest that some-
thing much worse than the harmless accident
aforementioned had happened. But as the dread-
fully nude motive had to be suppressed, these
people are left flying after a shadow for no visible
reason.
* * * *
For these causes, and a good many others,
“ Mi-- Decima ” is, in large spots, very dreary.
Lauri, the old pastor, armed with the snowy
cotton umbrella of a blameless life, is a wildly
hilarious person, but he absorbs almost all the
mirth there is in the piece, and adds a lot of his
own. Miss Juliet Wray acts the name part ex-
ceedingly well, and sings it in a way about which
the less that is said the better. Mrs. Braey, as a
fiery Spanish dame with a yearning for bull-fights,
performs excellently throughout. Wallace Brown-
low is about as moderate as this fine actor and
singer can be in a dismally moderate character ;
Courtice Pounds is also moderate, ’though not
quite so moderate as Brownlow. Miss May Pol-
lard sings and dances charmingly. Apart from
Lauri and Mrs. Bracy, about the most humorous
feature of the show is Mr. Lissant as a vast, irre-
levant, Scotch person named Donald Mac Som-
ething. The piece is finely mounted, and the last
scene evoked a double recall for the artist on Sat-
urday.
* # *
Next Wednesday afternoon the gifted
Brownlow takes a farewell benefit at the Lyceum.
It will be a specially gorgeous benefit, including
two acts of Sullivan’s opera, “ Ivanhoe,” never yet
produced in Australia, and Act 11. of “Ma Mie
Rosette ” —the wicked act in which tbe comely
king tempts the village maiden, and she falls.
Brownlow, it is alleged, intends to abandon the
stage for awhile and go gold prospecting, and if
he does The Bulletin trusts that he will prospect
in the stately raiment and long buff boots of
Henry IV., and thereby elevate a profession which
has been too exclusively followed in moleskins and
a short clay pipe.
** * *
That pleasant old drama, the “ Lancashire
Lass,” has been resurrected by Westmacott’s co.
at Sydney Royal. The “Lass” was written in
the peaceful days before the dramatist had begun
to strain himself in a feverish pursuit after tanks
and big explosions and horse-races, and in its
quiet, mellow, restful way it is an agreeable
change. The English farm is a suggestion of the
good times before almost every English farm had
a mortgage in the foreground. The hero, when
his ideal is shattered, goes out and gets frankly
and undisguisedly drunk, after the fashion of the
beer-drunk of our fathers before the liquor was so
disgracefully adulterated as it is now. The
heroine, when her small, mild sin finds her out,
goes forth and moans in black rags on a wharf,
just as if she was quite new, and underneath
her the canvas water is tightly strained round
a corner, and when Johnson falls in he doesn’t
even profess to make a splash. The co., with one
exception, is a gratifying combination. Scot
Inglis is a fine hero with the manly chest of virtue
well developed, and Harry Plimmer, with the
cynical eye-glass of vice, is a refreshing villain.
Stirling Whyte is about the best maudlin old man
on the Australian stage, and Hazlitt, Sweeney,
Stanford and Westmacott fill four other characters
well. Also, the graceful Miss Ireland, as the good
woman, is a willowy creature in a touching frock ;
and Miss Gill, as the bad woman, is a much-
improved edition of her old self, and but for the
fact that Miss Phillips, as the silly woman, is
rather crude, and is painted in a hideously glaring
fashion, there would be nobody to seriously object
to. The “ Lancashire Lass ” is a good play mainly
by reason of its years. Nobody with a sense of
humor could write a new play with an outcast
heroine moaning on a wharf, because that lady
has already moaned so dreadfully all over the
habitable globe that everybody would feel she was
THE HIGHEST POINT IN AUSTRALIA: Mr. “ Lorry" Harnett
eciting “ The Man from Snowy River ” on the Pinnacle of Mt. Kosciusko.
an aggravated chestnut, but in this venerable pro-
duction she doesn’t look out of place ; her wail is
the original seed-wail of the lost girl of melodrama
and its age protects it from insult.
** * *
Her Majesty’s puts up “ A Transvaal
Heroine” on Saturday. This is alleged to be
another version of Rider Haggard's “Jess,” and
it comes along at an inopportune moment, when
poet laureate Austin’s dreadful verse has killed all
interest in Jameson’s raid, and when the Emperor
Bill has ceased from troubling, and Uncle Paul is
distinctly on top, and has even arrested Teddy
Lonnen for high treason, and a dreadful rumor
has gone round that out of Joubert’s 2700 men
only 200 or 300 were really present at Krugers-
dorp, and Cecil Rhodes has gone smash, and the
Uitlanders have doubled up. Also, it comes at a
time when people have nearly forgotten the hag-
gard rider who used to pervade the veldt and the
karoo, and when Umslopagaas is ancient history
and the ghost-wolves are merely dead-meat, and
the battleaxe romance with the red blood and the
flying chunks of flesh, and the spears, and the
gory howl of slaughter in it has almost dropped
out of sight.
** * *
The Criterion comedy comes to a well
deserved end this week, and after Friday the dis
gustingly vulgar waiter with the nose-trouble will
aHict Sydney no more. The waiter and the rest
of the co. leave for Queensland, and the Criterion
shuts up for the present.
** * *
Alice Leamar is doing her last three nights
at Sydney Tivoli, but Joseph Robin and Marie
Hood have come to fill the aching void, and the
Crossley sisters are to reappear to-night (Thurs-
day), arid the Ivanoff brothers are singing in nine
di ferent languages as before. Also, John Cole-
man still remains, and La Belle Maie pursues her
hair-raising track on the slack-wire with the un-
earthly calm of one who does that sort of thing for
amusement, and would as soon sleep up there as
anywhere else. The Opera House has baritone
I itzmaurice on hand, and has recruited the co.
with George Dean, the well-known operatic artist
Other recent additions are the two Mahers, Alice
and Mike, and the public desire manifested on
Saturday to see Alice and Mike is said to have
been something unprecedented.
** # #
The Kinetoscope at 162 Pitt-street, Syd-
amid electric flashes and revolving
rainbow colors. The invention has thoroughly
solved the ancient problem —how to spend that
lonesome day, Sunday. If you are well enough
on Sunday morning to keep one eye ojien, you can
apply it tc the kmetoscope and receive into your
sodden soul much ecstatic ballet-dancing, much
cock-fighting, much lynching, much boxer Corbett.
The world is made up of fighting and of love, and
taking examples of both arts in the concrete on
Sunday should please both the morally and im-
morally perfect. Unfortunately, however, the
kmetoscope is not open on Sunday —only on week-
days.
** * *
George Dean, the well-known operatic
artist, once of the Royal Comic Opera Co., is to
have a farewell benefit at Sydney Opera House to-
morrow (Friday) evening. The show will include
the Cogills’ company, Marie Luella, the burlesque
actress of the bright eyes and much-worshipped
extremities, Florrie Forde, Edith Moore, the
Gourlavs, Wilfred Shine, Ralph Roberts, the
Fighting Kangaroo, trapezist Ouda, and others
too numerous to mention.
*# * *
“The Passport” has had quite a roaring
time at Melbourne Princess’s. Brighter comedies
than this fell flat during the previous B. and B.
season, but “ The Passport ” appears to fill a
long-felt want. It is improper. Thejoke turns upon
a general supposition that a lady and gentleman,
who were not married, conducted themselves as
though they had been. The particular kind of
social “ sin ” which gets solemnly sat upon in a
problem play—otherwise an “immoral” play—is
a source of innocent merriment and wholesome fun
in a farcical comedy. One of these days, perhaps,
someone will explain why suggestions of human
giddiness upon the stage are only reprehensible
when they don't make women laugh, and why
“ The Passport ” isn’t three times more shocking
than “Mrs. Ebbsmith.”
Boucicault, made up to resemble Boucicault pbre
thirty years ago, plays his portion of tbe riot with
increased velocity. The scene wherein he dis-
covers that the lady suspected of going astray
with a lord is his own wife, instead of another
fellow’s, gives the comedian scope for wild extrava-
gance, and he lets himself run loose with cheerful
results. But even the success of Boucicault pales
before the one supreme effort of his partner.
Brough achieves the biggest laugh of the evening
when he asks Mrs. Brough to show him what she
has concealed under her waistcoat. Sassiety
charmers, who don t conceal much above their
waistcoats, enjoy this incident exceedingly.
* * * *
On Saturday the B. and B. Company
reverts to serious work. Mrs. Brough appears for
MOUNT KOSCIUSKO; A STIFF CLIMB.
the first time as Fedora, and Titheradge, who
has been lurking in the background up to now,
will play the man she loves.
** * *
The gorgeous display of scenery and fire-
works at Melb. Royal doesn’t appear to fill the
treasury. There is too much incomprehensible
heathenism about “The Land of the Moa,” for
one thing, apart from several other regrettable
enigmas. The gibbering savages in paint and
blankets are not even suspected of being genuine
articles, and an artificial Maori, stamping his hoof
upon the stage and crying “ ullamullaoostah ! ” for
ten minutes at a stretch, is by no means an in-
tellectual feast. The livest feature of these
ooshtah revels is Miss Polly Emery, an en-
thusiast in everything she undertakes. Miss
Polly stirs a saucepanful of fire with a
stick, and yells maledictions upon the pale-
faces, as though she had a real grievance to
avenge. Otherwise the tribal gatherings are
no more convincing than a certain lean for°life in
the first act. Ihe leap, which is an alleged effort
by an unwilling horse, was brought off for the first
time on Saturday night, after several abortive
attempts. The horse came careering through
space with imp legs, a dejected tail, and an ex-
pression of deepest melancholy on his countenance.
He was despatched by wire, it seems, and he re-
minded one of a telegraph-message that bears ill-
tidings. When “The Land of the Moa ” has ex-
hausted its powers of attraction, “ The Silence of
Dean Maitland ” will probably be staged.
** * *
“ The Factory Girl of Melbourne ” drew
another steaming crowd to the Alexandra on
Saturday. Allusions to topical events trickle from
die dreary dialogue of this inhuman drama, but
the plot is destitute of aught resembling a factory.
The heroine, instead of making shirts at fid. a
dozen, is the wife of an inspired dyer, who sells
the patent of a new dye for if 15,000, after which
he turns the young woman adrift on a charge of
infidelity, and degenerates into a public nuisance.
Briefly stated, Dan. Barry’s latest production is
an atrocity. The villain induces a girl of tender
years to meet him at midnight by the St. Kilda
sewerage works and learn “the secret of her
father’s name.” When she reaches the sewer
diggings to enquire for the author of her being,
the first villain and his accomplice try to assassi-
nate her by laboiious means with a block of blue-
stone. The girl, being rescued by her aunt, worries
herself no further as to her father’s name after
this, nor do the baffled villains try to kill her
anv more. Nothing happening in one act throws a
light upon proceedings in the next act. The Bul-
letin can’t express its scorn for “The Factory
Girl of Melbourne” in ordinary sneer words,
therefore its language must be left to the imagina-
tion. Augustus Glover, Dora Mostyn, O’Neill,
Wilson Forbes and Dan. Barry, as well as the
scenery, act in a very respectable manner and
deserve sympathy. On second thoughts Dan.
Barry doesn’t deserve sympathy, because he is the
manager who profits by the crime.
** * *
Charles Godfrey, assisted by the Lentons,
Ivy Scott, Ada Colley and Co., keeps the ball
rolling at the renovated Opera House. It is an-
nounced that “ Balaclava ” will be withdrawn next
week, and all persons desirous of seeing Godfrey
fall wounded across the neck of his stuffed charger
had better hurry up.
** * *
Boucicault’s character in “ Mrs. Ebb-
smith ” haunts the memory. The duke may be
said to write his own letter of introduction to the
audience —that smart, cynical little letter in which
he proposes to come and discuss “ Shakespeare,
also the musical glasses,” with his nephew’s lady-
companion. One expects much of the duke when
he arri ves, and all one’s hopes are realised. What
an ever-wise worldling he is, what a tactician,
philosopher, and honestly wicked old chap ! How
genuine in his liking and admiration for Mrs.
Ebbsmith, after she has given her flesh-tints a
chance to impress his weary soul ! “ This is short-
lived, you know,” says the sinner, stirring the tail
of her dicoliete dress with his walking-stick. He’s
sorry for the woman. As soon as he bas played
his last card, advising Mrs. E. to put Lucas
Cleeve’s sincerity to the test, the duke regrets his
own cunning—“No, don't. Damn him'. Enjoy
your hour.” Which stamps him as a nobleman
with a heart that can feel for another, provided
that the other wears a bodice cut very low.
** * *
The Australasian Dramatic and Musical
Association of Victoria has held its annual
meeting, and come
to the conclusion
that the assets
are nil. There
was money at the
back of the A. D.
and M. A. in the
old “daring,
swearing, devil-
may caring time ”
of the boom and
earlier, but the
income was con*
verted into a
bloated liability
when the banks
went bung. This
liability is not
of much conse-
quence perhaps.
The trustees are
disposing of it
with a compro-
mise, and a credi-
tor who refuses
an offer of no-
th ingin particular
from an institu-
tion which can’t
raise a red cent
gets nothing
extra by his
obduracy. So
the liability
. „ doesn’t count.
The mam feature of the A. D. and M.
A. report is a paragraph to the effect
that its only visible means of support is
the Distressed Actors Fund, which hands over a
slice of the profit derived from an annual chari-
table shivoo to the older charity. And the moral of
the balance-sheet is that the Distressed Actors’Fund
will have to promote another shivoo shortly, in
order to prevent the Dramatic and Musical Asso-
ciation from subsiding into dust and ashes.
Oscar Wilde, now confined within prison
walls, told a recent visitor that during the early
trial he was drunk all the time, or he
would have escaped from England, as he had
every opportunity of doinv.
In this dissimulating age
Illicit love upon the stage
Seems truly awful
When shown with all the subtle art
Of authors striving to impart
A lesson lawful.
But, if there be no lesson meant,
The naughtiest of sentiment
Makes maidens merry ;
A farce that laughs at social ‘ * vice
Is voted altogether nice—
’Tis funny, very.


An Important Chanye
Is pending in the well-known Drapery and Ladies
Outfitting Business of Messrs. Manning and
Company, on the Block, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Tempting partnership proposals from a friend in
Scotland have induced Mr. R. Manning to employ
other brains and capital in his rapidly-expanding
business; and in view of the new rriime, a large sale,
for the purpose of reducing stock, lias been entered
upon. Each department is expected to effect a
certain reduction in stock, and to render this easy
of accomplishment, every article in the establish-
ment has been re-marked and its value consider-
ably discounted. Now, obviously, is the time to
purchase. Quite a clearing-out is being aimed at,
with a view to immediate re-stocking on a larger
and more elaborate scale. This, ladies, is your
opportunity. The address : MANNING & CO.,
on the Block, Collins-street, Melbourne.*
The German Emperor lately got a print-
seller fined for announcing the Empress’s portraits
on sale at a reduced price !
The lash, which has lately been practically
discarded in N.S.W. by the superior bench, is
again being used by the most snappish and least
even-minded of all the District Court Judges,
Mr. Docker, who last week superadded flaying to
a heavy term of penal servitude.
Premier Nelson is only standing by to
carry the Boodlewraith party through the general
elections—as M‘llwraith did in ’93—when he will
retire into semi-private life. But it is essential to
the party plans that he should win his seat at
Murilla—hitherto a nice little squatting pocket
constituency—and the Labor candidate has this
time made so much headway that the result is by
no means certain. So Nelson has presented his
photo, and his policy to every elector. The
photo, shows a douce Scotchman with grey hair
mighty thin on top, and a good many weary lines
about the eyes. The policy is the same bait of
fine promises and fine phrases with which so many
previous rotten Governments have trapped unwary
voters. In his speeches Nelson actually tries to
disinfect the Govt.’s relations with Q.N. Bank.
All his eloquence, however, cannot alter the signi-
ficant fact that in June, ’92, the Q.N. Bank owed,
roughly, (if millions of private liabilities and
millions of Govt, liabilities ; that the Bank went
smash, and by June, ’95, its private liabilities
were roughly 5 millions, and Govt, ditto
millions, so that the Govt, was putting public
money in faster than private depositors were
taking it out. And all his oratory cannot give a
satisfactory answer to the question “ Why ? ”
One of the pleasantest, coolest, most
central and best-appointed restaurants in Sydney
is the Manhattan Dining Room, situated in the
basement of the great Equitable Building in
George-street, Sydney. It is in the middle of the
busiest portion of Sydney, and is in every respect
a high-class establishment with good cooking, good
attendance, a lavish bill of fare, and luxurious
fittings and furnishings. *
UNEQUALLED for STRENGTH and GRIPPING-
m
tBALATA
SELTINGH
is Two and a-half times the strength of best English
Leather Belting.
SEND FOll CATALOGUE to
Wm.. Adams & Compy.,
Oil Merchants »V Engineers’ Furnishers,
71 Clarence-st„ Sydney ; 521-523 Collins-st., Melbourne,
[?]
Sydney, March 10, 1890.
Mr Dear Moorabinda—
A woman writing a cycling storyette in the
Australasian talks of her very toes feeling giddy
after a spin down-hill. But 1 think she-eyclists
must have giddy heads as well to take up so
hideously unsesthetic a pastime. To my idea the
only method of feminine locomotion less dignified
than “biking” is that of the woman between two
policemen who is being marched, kicking and
screaming, to the lock-up; and even then I’m not
so sure that the latter hasn’t the best of it, for the
“ bobbies ” might be a nice-looking pair, and, in
any case, they are doing all the work of dragging
her along. The proof that the female cyclist is a
public eyesore lies in the reception she gets, and
is emphasised by the fact that better-class wheel-
women go out surreptitiously o’ nights, or, if in
the daytime, their wheels are carted to lonely spots,
and there secretly mounted as if cycling was the
Gunpowder Plot. And what the result may be of
society wheeling out after dark with its good-
looking trainer is an open question.
Certainly the female Ixion isn’t encouraged to
practise in the eye of the public if the disgraceful
spectacle I saw in Pitt-st. recently is at all typical.
A wheel woman was trying to get on to her machine
with the peculiar, ungraceful hop that appears to
be necessary ; but without success. Thereupon a
mob of youths gathered and proceeded to bait
the worried and misguided female, who at last
turned on her tormentors: “You cads ! you
cads ! ” she choked out, and then, rage lending
her skill, she managed to scramble on to the iron
frame and tore down street like mad. I don’t
suppose that particular damsel will scorch round
town again in a hurry.
But such an agitating experience would never
happen to a woman on a horse. If anything goes
wrong with an equestrienne riding alone, strange
men are ready and willing to set things right with
the utmost sympathy and consideration. The
reason is, I suppose, that the Australian man has
a lot of respect for the horse if he hasn’t any for
the woman; anyhow, woman on horseback is stared
at perhaps, but (unless she is fifteen stone and
rides like a sack of potatoes) always with a certain
amount of admiration, while a woman bent double
on a wheel is cheerfully asked to strike a match on
her blanky bloomers, and otherwise cheapened as
she wobbles all over the highway. And one would
think that Sydney women, above all, would be the
very last to cycle for historic reasons. The
treadmill action looks so like a raking-up of poor
dear grandpa’s grievances.
At General Hutton’s departure from Sydney
last Thursday per Melb. express eloquent testi-
mony was borne to the coolness between the femi-
nine portion of barrack society and that bronzed
and aggressive martinet. Also, the General’s lug-
gage appeared to consist chiefly of a leather hat-box
and a bundle of Johnni e-sticks. Judging by the
number of the latter, the departed warrior must
have had a stick for every change in the weather.,
Band-music, ranging from “ Home, Sweet Home ”
to the Anathema, played him out of sight, and
there were the usual hip-hip-hoorays to conclude.
Apropos music, the newly-formed N.S.W. police-
band has inaugurated a series of recitals in the
various public grounds, beginning with Hyde
Park. Its first programme started with a fantasia
on “Her bright smile haunts me still.” Which
is exactly what one might expect from the cold-pie
brigade.
The latest Sydney epidemic is attempted burg-
lar-shooting by women. Woman’s utter inability
to hit a haystack was exemplified in one case,
where an intrepid lady, armed to the teeth, saw
a strange man gambolling about her garden at
midnight and let fly at once. All would have
been well (for, of course, she hadn’t hit him) but
that another burglar came up behind and grabbed
her, whereupon she fired again and potted—her-
self. And now she lies hors dc combat in a private
hospital, a solemn warning to every woman who
chooses to forget that Providence expressly permits
her to bury her head under the clothes and scream
without loss of prestige or damage to her dignity
at the first sign of a midnight visitor, from a mouse
to a man.
Madame Juliette Henry’s expanding Cercle
Litteraire held its “ first-Wednesday ” re-union
at the rooms in Pitt-st. on the 3rd inst. with grati-
fying results. There was music by Miss Chappel,
Miss O’Shannassy, and Mons. Boffard, a large
tenor with a light, highly-strung voice, just from
Paris ; and the members of the Cercle performed
the comedy of “La LettreChargee ” with all their
old sprightliness, Dr. Roth making his usual
success of Fairgasson. Cakes and ale wound up
an enjoyable evening for students and guests alike.
It is somewnat revolting to read how stray dogs
are disposed of in Sydney. Municipal officials
snatch up street-wandering canines of all sorts in
the early morning and take them out to Moore
Park in a covered cart. There an inspector
passes the victims in review—relieves the respect-
able dogs of their collars and turns them loose, in
the sure and certain hope of catching them again
the next day—and then slaughters all the rest
with a tomahawk and buries them in the sand.
Ugh !
In Sydney, nothing controlled by a “by-law”
or a “ minnit ”is aesthetic or artistic. I suppose
the reason why the city is so ugly in its workings
is that (broadly speaking) no gentleman was ever
an alderman, and no alderman a gentleman.
When a man with straight legs and a fall in his
back gets into the Town Hall among the weirdly-
tailored city fathers whose lace neckties are worn
in a way that suggests they have been trying ex-
periments in hangmen’s knots, he looks like a
page of the Family Herald blowing loose around
the Rocks. The Town Hall is a hopelessly un-
fashionable place where people only go to get large
quantities of free food and drink, and, therefore,
the figs of Culchaw and the musical glasses do
not grow on the thistles of unaspirated aitches
and triumphant Philistinism which flourish there.
Unless, as is suggested, the Kennel Club and the
Animals Protection Society make it their business
to have a more humane stop put to poor dog Tray,
I am afraid the cleaver instinct (very strong in
municipal circles, which mainly consist of
Butcherdom) will never be brought to see any-
thing gory and barbarous in killing pet dogs per
meat-axe.
Much gate-money was packed into Sydney
Association Ground on the second day (Saturday) of
the test cricket-match, and there was a dense, ex-
cited crowd in the ladies’ pavilion, dressed within
an inch of its life for the most part. The show of
femininity seemed unusually stalwart, and it was
as good as a play, when tea-time came, to see com-
paratively weedy youths tearing round with trays
of victuals. One youth especially created a broad
grin. He was a frail budlet in a 14-hands collar,
and literally staggered under a tray packed with
cups of tea flanked by a tower of rose-pink pastry
piled as high as a hat. He looked like the man in
the comic song, whose girl said she wasn’t hungry.
There will be plenty of contrast between the
Australian thirteen going ’Ome. One long, gaunt
gumsucker booked for the journey has about as
much shapeliness and all the length of four yards
of deal planks, and he is matched by another
altitudinous giant slackly hung together as if he
would be liable to creak in a high wind. With
these sons of Anak goes an undersized cornstalk,
who will play Pataquez to the two Bombardos,
and the rest are assorted sizes, so that the British
damsel pining for an Antipodean hero will have
no cause to complain of variety of choice in either
height or complexion. But lam afraid this team
will more than ever convince the untravelled
Britisher that Australians are black, for sunburn
has colored some of ’em beautifully. One player
had so over-baked an appearance on Saturday that
his black trousers were merely a good match for
his face.
The charmingly-staged “ Miss Decima,” at
Sydney Lyceum, proved to be a somewhat cold-
drawn three-act musical farce —an originally-giddy
piece of nonsense bowdlerised from the French—
in which the Opera Co. had hardly full play for its
talent. The weakest spot was the music, which
went up and down in an uneasy sort of manner
with neither depth nor spontaneity, punctuated
with shrill top O.’s. The song, “ Full of hope my
pulses beat,” brought an encore, but more for
Wallace Brownlow’s artistic rendition than for the
merits of the song itself, and the “Ideal She”
duet, between Paul and Bertie, took a recall
because of the laughter marked in the biz, and
because of the naughty suggestion of the hidden
sketch the song is all about. To see what sort of
a picture it was that couldn’t be shown to a
Lyceum audience fresh from Contemplating the
Tableaux Vivants kept every bald-headed man
glued to his opera-glasses every time Paul’s
naughty sketen-book was in evidence. Bertie
Brown was played by Mr. Bathurst, understudy
to Mr. Brownlow. It is a shadowy proceed-
ing to put an understudy cheek-by-jowl with
the artist whom he is encouraged to imitate. It
nearly always looks as if the principal was per-
forming in front of a mirror.
The part of Miss Decima must be a trying
ordeal for Miss Juliet Wray, whose sordid appear-
ance in the Salvation Army costume, with a bell-
rope of property hair down her back, was not
calculated to take the sting out of the situation
when Courtice Pounds, as an Irish chevalier with
a fitful brogue, unknowingly told her she was
“not a beauty, but scraggy.” “What a queer
object I do look,” Miss Decima says of herself;
and the worst of it is that the audience generally
heaves a sigh and acquiesces. Miss Wray’s thin,
wire-drawn voice, too, makes her part of the music
sound here and there like a busy day at the tin-
smith’s. As her father, the rhyming parson,
George Lauri was funny, but the part rather bores
you in the long run.
May Pollard’s dance with Mr. Pounds in the
first act was encored, and her gown of blue-and-
yellow satin was handsome, though her second
dress looked an old friend—the hide-bound gar-
ment Nellie Stewart wore in “ Predatoros,” in
point of fact; but Miss Pollard was the only lady
whochanged herfrock, though “Miss Decima” was
handsomely staged and dressed a la tourist. I
was glad to see Mr. Brownlow arrived at the
Swiss hotel in an ordinary suit and put on his
climbing-suit afterwards. In Australia the touring
Johnnie puts on his gunny-bag breeches and false
calves for the railway journey and generally does
the block in ’em before the train starts. The
chorus of lady tourists, some in bloomers and
some in jaunty skirts, was an invaluable object-
lesson to the girl who isn’t decided which to bike
in. The skirts had it, of course, for general
jauntiness. The back view of a pair of bloomers —
ugh ! —takes all the poetry out of feminine bifur-
cation. I almost forgot to mention the neat figure
the ever-melodious Bracy cut as the dude with his
hair parted in the middle. Rumor declares
Mr. Bracy to be as neat off the stage as on. and
the story runs that going out in Maoriland one
day, got up to the last hair, Mr. B.’s well-arranged
hat was swept off by an overhanging tree, where-
upon the tenor exclaimed : “There, now, my day
is completely spoilt ! ” and returned home again.
To-morrow (Friday) the N.S.W. Society of
Artists opens to its members its Autumn Exhibi-
tion—on the ground-floor of the Mutual Life of
INew York’s buildings, Moore and Pitt Streets.
The pictures, of which there are 120, are small and
above the average in quality, and will be open to
the general public on and after Saturday.
“ Why there are so many Catholic old maids,”
writes a country girl to me. “ The other Sunday,
at a village church in the Gundagai (N.S.W.) dis-
trict, the priest, who as in duty bound severely
denounces ‘ mixed ’ marriages, after exhorting the
congregation—of course nearly all girls —to con-
tribute to a fund for sending to Ireland Australian
youths to be made into priests and thus condemned
to a life of celibacy, actually had the nerve to fro
round the chapel and take up the collection in
person. With one exception (myself, on principle)
every girl present ‘ parted ’ —in order to increase
the supply of ghostly comforters and still further
reduce her already slender chance of finding a
husband. And this happened in a place where
there are living in despair 20 Misses of the same
name.”
The latest society engagement is that of a son
of a well-advertised justice, now on his travels,
and the altogether nice daughter of a late Sydney
medico. And it appears that the handsome widow
of a bank official intends joining forces with a stal-
wart widower long popular and prominent in stock
and station circles.
A day of brilliant sunshine and a breeze served
up red-hot made the autumn-gowns look stuffy and
dusty at the Steeplechase at Flemington on Satur-
day, writes my Melb. correspondent. The few
wise women who forewent the bliss of sporting
entirely new season’s frocks for the comfort of
summer cottons and muslins could grin in compara-
tive coolth at the others, who, as the day advanced,
grew red-faced and distressed in heavy autumn
cloths and velvets. Apart from the discomfort,
the new clothes displayed showed that the
“ things ” for the coming season are decidedly
picturesque and pretty. Lady Brassey, who dis-
approves of steeplechasing, was not present. Mrs.
Freeman-Thomas did the honors in a flappy,
drooping gown of tea-leaf hue. She carried a
huge black feather fan. Miss Ethel Greene’s
sapphire-blue velvet frock, with smart double-
breasted coat and vest of old tinted lace, was
unusually snappy, though it somewhat suggested
the huntress of comic opera. Mrs. Brough, in
black crepe, came out with Mr. and Mrs. W. R.
Wilson, Mrs. W.’s gown being almost an exact
replica of Mrs. Tracey’s pink silk in “The Pass-
port.” Miss Tern pile and Miss Faber both looked
cool in white muslin, and Hilda Spong was radiant
in pale-heliotrope blouse with violet velvet fittings,
worn with a huge black hat and black skirt.
Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
At Poverty Point .
Lomion Times, 27 1 96 says : “ The concert in the
Queen’s Hall on Saturday was chiefly remarkable for the
number of splendid contralto voices among the singers,
and for the success which attei de l precisely those singers
whose popularity depends on the voice and nothing else.
Miss Ciara Butt won an enc re iora performance in which
her entire absence of phr. sin; and bad management of
the breath were patent to e> ery intelligent hearer, and
Madame Belle Cole obtained her usual success. On the
other hand, Miss Ada Crossley’s artistic use of a beautiful
contralto voice gave new life to a once-popular song of
Blumenthal’s.” How is this for Australia !
Another view : “ The real Venetian stove is a massive
structure in stonework and inlaid pottery ware, wherein
the heat is confined to the centre, and whereof the top
does not get hot. This, in miniature, is the kind used in
‘ Ebbsmith.’” The Bulletin hasn’t been touring round
Venice lately, and doesn’t pretend to decide this warm
question, but it doesn't see the use of a stove in which
the heat is confined to the centre, anyway. What’s the
object of a “ massive structure ” unless to provide
plenty of heating surface ? In any case, the “ Ebb-
smith ” fire which burns Mrs. Brough’s arm is close enough
to make the top red-hot.
A Bulletin man, after seeing the D.T. scene in “ Ten
Nights in a Bar-room,” wonders why it did not occur to
the enterprising management to introduce some realism
into the thing ; a monkey dyed pink, and a sky-blue dog
with spangles, also a green crayfish or two, and a few
painted eels, would have served to carry conviction with-
out running the treasury into any great expense. When
a realistic jim-jam menagerie could be so easily laid on, it
was a pity to neglect details which many in the audience
would naturally look for.
11. “ I would take a sta'l to see Brough as the “ lolan-
the ” Chancellor. How clever was his Jonathan Wilde, in
‘ Little Jack Sheppard.’ We forget he is a singer.”
P. : “ Pace Smythe, I believe Kipling would be a suc-
cess under his auspices, though under no other, in Aus-
tralia. Surely our omniscient wanderer does not mean to
say that Clark was his trump-card merely because of a
dazzling oratorio turn. Smythe has engineered several
great men with no oratory, but people go to see them,
and thus with Kipling.”
Ada Crossley has been engaged for the Monday Pops at
St. James’s Hall, which looks like ascending the ladder.
Williamson and Musgrove's “ Trilby co.” will reach
Sydney March 24, but the first show will be in Melb.
Princess’s, April 4.
The remarkable horse leap “ across a chasm 22ft wide,
at a height from the stage of 15ft.,” which was to be slung
promiscuously into “ The Land of the Moa ” at Melbourne
Royal, had not been brought off at time of writing. The
horse objected to being slung promiscuously, it seems.
The management made arrangements to assist the noble
steed across the chasm with wires, on something of the
same principle that Bland Holt's “ living bridge ” is
worked. If the horse would but make a pretence of
jumping, the wires would pull him through. But he
can’t be induced to let himself go. They have tried it
two of three times. As soon as he becomes conscious of
the suspension trick, the poor animal doubles himself up,
with his head feebly knocking against his hind legs,
like a dead sheep.
Juliet Wray says Sydney is unlucky for her. She has
only been there twice ; the first time she got a bad attack
of sciatica, and the second visit she sprained her ankle on
landing.
An aboriginal theatrical co. has started operations in
Queensland. Some 53 blacks of both sexes are running
the show on approved “white” lines, commingled with
the “corroboree ” element. The “ co.” pitched its tent at
Coorparoo last week, and the whole district turned out to
witness the first performance. The “ manager ” was a
stalwart nig. who announced that the admission was a
silver coin ; “children one fellow penny” 1
The “ firm’s ” Comic Opera Co. will need reconstructing
after June. Juliet Wray leaves for Paris, and, despite con-
trary rumors. The Bulletin hears that Florence Young is
also likely to go thither to study. At the same time the
engagements of Wallace Brownlow and Courtice Pounds
run out. The latter will not renew, it is said, and the
stately Henriot has already decided on giving up warbling
for gold-prospecting for a time. He has formed a syndi-
cate to hunt for the metal in Gippsland, Vic.
Geraldine Olliffe, late with Brough and Boucicault,
occupies two pages in a recent Sketch. In her opinion
the bugv B.’s possess the finest stock co. in the world, and
her visit to Australia was the “great chance ” of her life.
Mrs. Tanqueray is her favorite part, and she thinks the
problem play, when not too locally English in tone and
plot, has caught on in Australia much as it did in Lon-
don. She had an offer to stay six months longer with B.
and 8., but didn’t care to be away from home too long.
Lately Miss Olliffe was acting four different parts at four
separate theatres every night, and when the mail left was
playing lead in “ Mrs. Ponderbury’s Past” at the Avenue,
and Margaret Mallard in “Tommy Atkins” —purchased
by George Rignold—at the Duke'of York’s the same
evening. She regards Eleonora Duse as the greatest
actress of the day.
A book on “Bohemian Life” is announced by Mrs. L.
L. Lewis, sister of Mrs. Marcus Clarke. The writer first
met the lady (then Rosa Dunn) at dinner one Sunday
at Fraser's Hotel, William-street, Melb., in the year 1855,
she having just arrived from California with her father,
John Benjamin Dunn—real name Donohoe. Father and
daughter had acted at most of the Californian theatres,
and Miss Dunn came to Melbourne with a strong flavor of
Bohemia about her fingers full of nugget rings, the gifts
of diggers; good-looking, hut well-bronzed by the climate,
and with a “ gulch ” reputation, having carried all before
her in the mining camps. Her father, a good low come-
dian, was the original English “Jim Crow,” as dis-
tinguished from Rice, the American “ Crow.” Miss Dunn
played successfully for many years in Melbourne, until
she retired on her marriage with L. L. Lewis, a capable
organist and successful commercial man. If Mrs. Lewis
remembers and relates her experiences of Bohemia, her
book should be readable.
Female criticism of “ The Passport ” heard in Princess’s
vestibule : “ I think it’s most unsatisfactory. I did so
want to hear what that nice young man in the front seat
intended to say.”
Dear Bulletin,— According to the R.C. decalogue the
Sixth Commandment is the adultery one. As the Dan
Barry crowd are Catholics, you must judge ’em by their
own commandments.— Bob.
Blondin, a septuagenarian, took unto himself a new
wife, the other week. The unparalleled Frenchman is, ol
course, a mere boy in everything but years and experi-
ence. All his life he has lived to qualify himself to walk a
tight-rope with safety, and the proof of his splendid state
of preservation is that he can walk the rope now as easily
as Srnery Parkes can wink his eye. Blondin will not let
his nerves be shattered by over-indulgence in matrimony.
Wilson Barrett was, at latest, literally coining money
with “ The Sign of the Cross ” at London Lyric. When
he put the piece up he was, so the story goes, “ behind
the world ” to the tune of nearly £20,000, but when his
luck took a turn for the better he set to work to pay off
his large liabilities, which have already been nearly swept
away.
The pros, don’t believe in the hypnotic-trance business.
Any mention at Poverty Point of the man who slept 10
days without awakening is greeted with “ rats,” and there
is generally on hand a man who had a midnight drink
with the sleeper.
Pro. : “ Tiie Bulletin sketch of Boucicault was accept-
able. He is the image of his beloved little mother, who
used to be known as ‘ The Fairy Star.’ Hopetoun’s dad
wanted to marry her, when she was under the care of the
Keans, but Boucicault whisked her off.”
Lucy Chambers was the first Australian to sing at La
Scala, Milan. Melba was the second. Up to date there is
no third.
Mark Hambourg was to give two pianoforte recitals in
London this winter season —one towards the end of
January, and the other during the first week in February.
No news of a failure has been cabled.
People will have it Oscar Wilde is out of quod, and that
the mysterious stranger, no matter who, must be him.
That giddy young man, Mr. Harry Atkinson Orpheus
Fitts, late of Melbourne, has just been divorced by his
wife on the grounds of infidelity and cruelty, the
latter being of the kind they call “ constructive,”
proved by the evidence of a medical man. But a
short year ago and Orpheus was, by his own showing, the
most uxorious of men and most faithful of hubbies. He
never ceased talking of his wife and his son and heir ; yet
he met his fate on the top of a ’bus in Tottenham Court
road, and fell. So much for conjugal gush.
“ Billy” Elton contemplates another trip to South
Africa.
Snell : Some time ago I suggested in The Bulletin
that one of our back-blocks experts in the use of the stock-
whip might, with a little special practice and a little horse-
sense, make up an excellent variety-hall “turn.” I have
seen casual performances, both with the stock-whip and
the bullock-whip, in the hands of inglorious professors in
bush townships, that Would have knocked a music-hall
audience anywhere. An Austrian named Piskslug is now
working the idea for all it is worth in Europe, and, with
the assistance of a couple of whips very like the Austra-
lian stockman's instrument, is pulling in heaps of coin.
His tricks, as described in a ’Ome paper, are similar to
those performed by the average smart man out back. He
takes a whip in each hand, and cracks time to fast tunes ;
then cuts strips out of a stretched hide, splits apples,
flips coins about, and picks up various objects with the
lash. This really should have been an Australian scoop.
The most successful itinerant singer in Sydney gutters
is a lad who trolls out thieves’ songs, to the delight not
only of the larrikins, but also of many well-dressed people,
who drop much money into his grimy fist. This juvenile
has frequently amongst his admiring audience uniformed
policemen, who enjoy the songs as much as anyone.
An author-actor, now writing “ Reminiscences ” in a
Sydney paper, once had a little experience not yet in-
cluded in his chapters. At the old Queen’s Theatre, in
York-street, Sydney, the play was “ After Dark,” and the
actor—now the author —had to rush on the alleged railway
to rescue a hoeussed man, whose body had been placed
across the rails in front of an approaching train. In a
terrific dash to rescue the drowsy one the actor collided
with the passing pasteboard train and toppled the lot
into the orchestra.


Wonderful Discovery!
R OSE S
CELEBRATED
JEYJE LOTI OK.
rrHIS lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Kliyht,
Inflamed Eyes and lAds, Dimness of Siyht.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the Sight. By post, 3s. per bottle.
Solelv by 11. A. ROSE, Chemist,
f>3l GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
f, No. 4jo. Telephone No. 496
PEATE & HARCOURT,
THE PREMIER GROCERY ESTABLISHMENT OF AUSTRALIA
By Special Appointment,
KM
H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh,
and
His Excellency the Governor.
GROCERS WINE MERCHANTS & ITALIAN WAREHOUSEMEN.
BEST OK GOODS AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
2 5 5 GEO R G E S T REE T, S Y D N E Y.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strip/
Mattalas.se and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33 - per Half-doze,,, free by post thro,,,,hoot
A astralm.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
at per dozen.
The most important point for the consideration
° all persons who desire to possess photographs
ot those nearest and dearest to them is with regard
<> permanence rather than price. No photograph
tnat will turn yellow, break.out in spots, or vanish
into nothingness within a few weeks can have its
value expressed in figures. When delivered, it
may shine like the enamelled mystery on a soap-
ox, but the seeds of disease are there, and must
come to the surface. This may be regarded as
do' en 1,1 certamties °f cheap photography at per
CHARLEMONT
Ok (1 EOltG
of OHRMAXFNT WORK,
of AKi ISIIG MhRIT and SKILFUL FINISH,
and invite you with confidence to inspect their
Showrooms. 1
& CO.
STUM KT, SYDNEY,
Society
CAMEO
Masonry, an organ of Australian Free-
masonry “published under the authority of the
M.W.G.M.,” complains in a leading article about
the “frowsy comments” of The Bulletin re a
recent Masonic election, when there were ap-
pointed the “ First Grand Sojourner, M.E. Comp.;
the First Grand Principal, Z.M.E. Comp. ; the
Grand Superintendent of Works, the Grand Sword-
bearer, the Grand Standard Bearer, ” and a lot of
other flapdoodle and tinsel. It heads the article
“Improper Publication of Craft News,” and im-
plores the lodges to keep these things dark and not
expose their mysteries to the coarse, ignorant
scoffer. Then it gives two or three pages of news
such as this :
A CONVOCATION was held on the 21st inst., M.E.Z.
Comp, A. W. W. M‘Dougal being on the throne ;
M.E. Comp. S. G. B. Fox, P.Z. 13, as H. ; M.E. Comp.
H. W. Sinclair, J. There were also present M.E. Comps.
Rev. E. Rodda, P.G.J. ; F. Davies, P.G.H. ; C. C. English,
Z 38 ; W. B. Fox, P.Z. 13 : W. N. Hall, P.Z. 13 ; R. Camp-
bell, Z. 1 ; E. S. Joel, P.G.S.B. ; J. G. Hoogklimmer, Z.
166. At the conclusion of the formal business, M.E.J.
Comp. H. W. Sinclair gave his most interesting and in-
structive lecture on Solomon’s Temple, explaining same
by diagrams, drawings, paintings, etc. On the motion of
M.E. Comp. Davies, seconded by M.E. Comp. Rodda, who
criticised the lecture, but regretted time did not admit of
his doing so as lengthily as he wished, a hearty vote of
thanks was recorded to the lecturer. The annual election
was then proceeded with, and resulted in the unanimous
election of M.E. Comps. J. M‘Dougall, H., as Z. ; H. W.
Sinclair, J., as H. ; and Comp. A. G. S. Williams as J. ;
M.E. Comp. B. D. Smith, P.G.J., as Treas. ; Comps. S.
Fripp, S.E. ; Hall, S.N. ; P.S. Comp. Ballard (elected for
third time); Comps. Flint and Rogers as Ist and 2nd A.S.;
M.E. Comp. J. A. Clark as Janitor. One candidate was
proposed for exaltation. Chapter was then closed in
antient form, and the Comps, adjourned for refreshments.
The usual R. A. toasts were given and suitable harmony
provided.
How can any sane human being take a serious
view of the Z. 1, and the Z. 166, and the M.E.Z.,
and the P. Z. 13, and the unanimous election of the
H. as Z., and all the rest of the Z. ?
* * * *
“ You’d be surprised,” said a Sydney
librarian to a Bulletin man t’other day, “ at the
feminine secrets revealed to us through returned
books. Women have a peculiar knack, when they
are reading, of picking up the nearest article to
‘mark the place.’ When the book reaches us
STIFFENED.
1ST JOCKEY: “Hullo! I thought you was dead!”
2ND DITTO: “So I am! But this bloomin’ thing don’t seem to see it!”
again, the chances are ten to one that the article
still remains within the covers. Love-letters,
bills, prescriptions, memos, recipes, and such out-
of-the-way book-markers as hair-nets, false
fringes, pressed flowers, and so on, thus come into
our hands. More than once, after Mrs. Potts
Point has been confined to her house by illness,
the cause of such illness is made plain to us thro’
a stray prescription left ’tween the leaves. Often
we are made participators in secrets that should
only be known to the patient and her doctor.
Love-letters break in upon our dreariness like a
gleam of sunshine. Only last week I came across
an epistle written by a married man to a married
woman whose husband was away ; it told a lot.
The man must have been a novice in intrigue, for,
altho’ he had only signed a ‘pet name,’he had
poured out his soul on headed office-paper. Draft
proposals of marriage, too, tho’not common, some-
times come into our hands.”
For fine, old, crusted British self-conceit—
thinly wrapped up in bogus modesty—it would be
hard to get ahead of the Oxonian who, according
to Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent, has
recently been recounting his Australian experi-
ences. Visiting at a N.S.W. station, he found
the sons of the family feverishly anxious to engage
him in all sorts of physical contests, which almost
invariably resulted in his discomfiture. “ Ai:d
yet they were not happy,” because, as they con-
fided to the visitor before his departure, although
physically his superiors and mentally his equals,
they couldn’t help, somehow, feeling “ mean ”
beside him. “The women won’t look at us when
you’re in the room ! ” are the words which this
singularly diffident young man puts into the
mouths of the Cornstalks, who, as he admits,
“ could lick him hollow at nearly everything ”
the inference, of course, being that “ Oxfawd ”
had about him some mysterious and indefinable
superiority that defied analysis and outweighed
everything else. Haw !
* * * *
Some Melb. house-agents now address the
“ To Let ” advts. to the “ nobility and gentry.”
* * * *
A new game called “Trilby” has broken
out. A large curtain is hung across a drawing-
room ; the lady players are on one side, and the
men on the other. Then the ladies show a long
row of bare feet underneath the curtain, and the
men guess the owner of each pair. Meanwhile,
the lady with the large red bunion or the imperish-
able corn sits and glowers in the background, and
refuses to join the game on any account.
* * * *
A well-known J.P. in a N.S.W. northern
town performs his duties in an airy, conversa-
tional fashion. Recently he sentenced a prisoner
to six months, and added, cheerfully : “I reckon
that’ll make him sweat. ” On another occasion a
milkman, whom the J.P. regarded with disfavor,
was a witness in a case, and when he left the
Court the judicial functionary skipped nimbly off
the bench and ran to the door after him. “ I say,’
he bawled at the retreating cow-keeper, “we don’t
want your stinking milk here.” The same Jay Pay
once directed a jury to find that “ the deceased
committed self-suicide,” and this time even the
local paper began to make remarks, so next court-
day his Washup explained things from the bench.
“I wouldn’t have minded if I’d said it,” he
snorted indignantly, “ but I didn’t. What I said
was that deceased committed suicide himself. And
so he did.”
» » * *
The two ex-principals, since married, of a
N.S.W. divorce-case- the hearing of which, some
two years back, caused the postponement and final
withdrawal of quite a sheaf of pleas in divorce by
aggrieved hubbies, owing to the Judge’s decree
that “ petitioners must come into court with clean
hands ” —have, by the death in England of the ex-
co-respondent’s father, recently come in for £90,000
in hard cash.
* * * *
The giant water-lily ( Victoria lieejia), which
Sydneyites at the rate of 300 per day have been
rushing to see, is said to have cost its wealthy
owner a thousand sovereigns in propagation ai.d
housing. And he has some more incubating which
are expected to top even that big figure ere being
coaxed to maturity! The philatelist, from a money
point of view, is simply “ not in it ” with the
raiser of orchids and rare flowers.
The London Johnnie now protects his chest
from chill, and his dress suit from “smuts,” by
wearing a quilted-satin breast-shield of k salmon-
pinkish or washing-blueish hue, according to his
complexion.
» * * »
Prof. Moore, President of Melb. Law
Students’ Society, delivered an address the other
day on the status and morale of the profession in
the past and at present, with remarks on the
founders and fathers of law. Not a word about
the Devil, however. This may have been good
policy, but, to outsiders, it looks like black ingrati-
tude. The President also omitted to make even
the slightest reference to “Gent One,” a mysteri-
ous personage in whom the public is grimly in-
terested.
* * * *
Lord Lamington, the new Q. Governor,
made a poor impression at the dinner given in his
honor at London, says The Bulletin’s correspon-
dent. He arose after “Pushful Joe” Chamberlain
had made one of his very best speeches, and when
the company was waiting to hear ex-Governor
Norman, Garrick, and Dicken, the acting-A.G.—
a very good speaker-and delivered himself of an
oration bristling with coached-up statistics of the
province, of which he knows absolutely nothing.
When he sat down an audible sigh of relief went
forth from all who had undergone twenty minutes
or more of boredom. A prosier speech was never
listened to. Beside it, Gerard Smith s drainage
oration and poor old Gov. Loftus’s historical
sewage speech at Sydney Town Hall were mere
circumstances.
NOT THE SORT HE WAS USED TO.
TOM (new on the track): “ Great Scott! what’s them?”
DICK : "Snakes, you fool!”
TOM : “ Why, where’s their pink rosettes?”
A Bulletin correspondent, while passing
a small farm in Barraba (N.S.W.) district on a
recent blistering day, struck a novelty in farming.
Two girls yoked to a wooden plough with ropes
tandem-fashion, and a man (probably their father)
guiding the plough aforesaid. About three acres
had been turned up, and four were still unbroken.
A probable solution of the unemployed difficulty.
Go on the land, young man !
* * * *
Suggested that th ire should be two Aus-
tralian cricket-teams —one for cricket and the
other for banquets.
* * * •
“La Belle Maie,” a
photo, of whom appears in this
..-sue, was born in England, her
Frenchified stage-name not-
withstanding. She is just 18,
and her real name is May
Walters. As a child she early
developed an unholy predilec-
tion for doing the tight-rope
business on the back-yard
fence with a clothes-prop for a
balancing-pole, and the inevit-
able penalties of torn frocks
and contused limbs were
powerless as deterrents. As
the result of surreptitious visits
to circuses, wire walking ap-
pealed strongly to her youthful
imagination, and she deter-
mined at the irresolute age of
about 7k to embrace that
hazardous method of earning a
livelihood. Unlike most child-
ish fancies, the idea clung to
her, and parental disapproval
gave way. She was regularly
apprenticed when eight years
old to George Ginnet (the
oldest living circus proprietor
in England), and subsequently
travelled with the Jee Family,
who drilled her into regarding
the wire as terra-firma. Miss
Maie has been all over England
and the Continent, and is
meditating a. descent upon
America in the near future.
Her great success at London
Aquarium and the Crystal
Palace was the Serpentine
Dance on the tight wire, in
which she is without a rival.
She uses, by the way, a piano-
forte wire, especially made for
her by a London firm. Despite
its great strength, it sometimes
breaks when she is dancing on
it. When this happened on
one occasion in Madrid, Miss
Maie sustained a fall which
left her insensible for over
twelve hours. The little lady
has brought wire-walking to a
pretty fine point, as it is, but
she intends to show what can
be done in her next feat, for which she is now
practising several hours every day, by skating on
the wire, which no one else has so far attempted.
* * * *
In her regard for the courtesies of the
road, ” writes a Bulletin correspondent, “Lady
Brassey is an object-lesson to cyclers of both sexes
Riding to Sunbury, the other day, she overtook a
farm-hand driving a young and restive horse, which
speedily became unmanageable. Lady B. at once
dismounted, and, hurrying to the horse’s head
held him while the driver got down and repaired
sundry damages to the harness. Then the lady
remounted and rode on.” In a word, Lady B
combines both Bane and Antidote. '
* * * *
mu !?' ye l r ' 0l J d girl, § ivin g evidence at
Melb. the other day, stated that she took a trip to
U;^ y , D * w , n ’ Westraha, with a man whom P she
intended to marry later on, and that she would
have concluded the needful ceremony but for dis-
covering hw real character in time. “When we got
to Day Dawn she remarked, “ I found that he was
said to have chewed a man’s ear off and bought a
black woman for .£40.” “ And wouldn’t you have
married him then ? ” queried the cross-examining
lawyer. “ Well,” replied the lady, smiling sweetly
at the Bench of which she had heard so much, “ if
he’d settled the hotel worth £lB5O and £5OO
besides on me, I might. Tou see that would have
been a chuck-in.” And that, with slight varia-
tions, is lovely woman’s view of matrimony.
Melb.: “A
regular thing
with the poor,
respectable
married wo-
men is the at-
tempt at abor-
tion by drugs,
and, just oppo-
site me, was
one who failed,
but died of her
drug - ruined
stomach.”
Severance,
it is whispered,
has at last
taken place be-
tween the gen-
tleman (of
equal emin-
ence in a pro-
fession and in
the Royal and
Antique Order
of Illustrious
Goat-riders)
and a certain
well - adver-
tised lady. The
gentleman is
all right —in
America,
where he will
probably en-
counter a for-
mer partner in
disastrous
mining speeu-
-lati o n s, an
evanished soli-
citor.
The W.C.T.U., of Adelaide, has dropped
the term “ age of consent ” and substituted “age of
protection.” In view of the numerous hysterical
she-devils lately shown-up in courts of law all
over Australia, the phrase, “age of consent,” has
begun to stink in the nostrils of everybody, and
the flat-chested sisterhood shows much cunning in
abandoning it.
* * * *
A loyal Melb. policeman, evidencing against
a furious driver last week, mentioned incidentally
that “ His Ex-cellency the Governor was passing
at the time, y’r Worship, and wetnursed the rash
LA BELLE MATE, the Tivoli serpentine dancer on the
slack wire.
Photo, by Hana, London.
act. Then the bench, which had previously
seemed impressed by defendant’s respectable
appearance, appeared to grow suddenly stern and
horrified in aspect, and, telling the reckless youth
that he would be made an example of, fined him
14 days. The chairman of the bench was a
C.M.G.
* * * *
The erstwhile secretary of a gone-bung
land-boom institution now convenes the “speerits”
in a suburb, for prompt cash, and is working up a
spirit-boom, with the aid of an ex-railway porter.
iHE Bulletin fully expects to read at an early
date of the issue of lithographed maps of choice


SHAVING made
A PLEASURE by Using
*- PINAUD
Shaving
Cream.
MATRIMONY.
Fvou wish a happy and advantageous marriage, consult
us. Our varied and extensive clientele enable us to
negotiate unions with persons in all stations of life, bocal
introductions or correspondence arranged. Inviolable
secrecy. All communications confidential. Information
sent free to bona-fide applications. Write for pamphlet
and rules. ... ...
Weldon's Matrimonial Association.
57 PHILLIPS STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next Hotel Metropole).
JAMES KIDMAIN.
What a Difference the FREETRADE TARIFF has made to the BREAKFAST TABLE I
JUST FANCY!
YOU CAN PROCURE AT JANIES KIDMAN’S
Company’s I.C. Sugar, 2d. per lb.
Gold Medal Milk, 6d. per tin.
Kippered Herrings, 7d. per tin.
12b). Rice for Is. 9d.
3 tins Skeena River Salmon for Is. 9d.
3 packets Cornflour for 9d.
101 b. Adelaide Flour for Is., Patent Roller (of course the
previous duty of £1 per ton has been taken off).
Sydney Soap and Candle Company’s Sperm Candles,
full weights, sd. per lb. In this instance, the £d.
per lb. duty has disappeared.
Lea and Perrin’s Sauce, IOJd. per bottle.
121 b. Sago, Is. 6d.; 121 b. Barley, Is. 6d.; 161 b. Soda, Bd.
C. and Blackwell’s Lncca Oil, quarts, Is. 9d. bottle.
Foster’s quart Ale, Bs. lid. ; M‘Ewan’s Ale, quarts,
9s. 5d.; Jeffrey’s quart Ale, 6s. 9d.; Toohey’s Ale,
4s. 9d. ; Bulldog Stout, 9s. 7d. ; Burke’s or Beaver
Stout, Ss. lid. ; Hennessy’s *** Brandy, 6s. per
bottle ; I'slier’s Special Reserve Whisky, 3s. 9d. ,•
Brown’s 4-Crown Whisky, 3s. 6d.
NAMDIK SEMAJ, Oxford Street, and George and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
subdi visional, gully-less blocks in Paradise —city
irainage, public school on the estate, and choice
tiarbor views thrown in. At a recent seance, a
hard-up visitor, who had lost all his money through
the land-boomer’s company, desired to know from
the “meejum” where his deposit was. The
coarsely - material nature of the interrogatory
induced a sudden wakefulness on the part of the
“meejum,” and a cataclysmic silence among the
audience.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin, — Re lions and dogs. I
remember many protests being made against the
association of a small bull-terrier with a half-grown
lion at Melbourne Zoo. But the cruelty was to
the lion, which was so thoroughly bossed by the
dog that he dared not even approach the food until
his small tyrant could hold no more. And people
used to come along and pity the “ poor little
dog ! ”•—A.M.
♦ * * ■
The Adelaide Hospital Board, appointed
on March 3 by the S.A. Govt., is already fighting.
One of the members, Dr. Hynes, is obnoxious to
some of his medical brethren, and so Dr. Magarey
and Mrs. (Dr.) Teichelmann have resigned, while
other doctors threaten to do likewise. Meanwhile,
the nurse trouble has been temporarily eclipsed.
* * * *
N.S.W. Justice Simpson’s determination
to make Barrister Ralston and other advocates re-
member that the Bench must not be insulted by
covert insinuation, by wave of the hand, or by
abrupt return to a sitting posture, is all very well
in its way ; but what the country has been de-
manding for years is the exercise of a determina-
tion to similarly protect witnesses while in the box.
* * * *
H. : “It is too painful for Gov. Brassey
to be holding balls and feasts at Government
House while its illuminated windows glare, like
baleful eyes, on the hideous starvation of South
Melbourne, even though ferocious Labor-members
may be persuaded to caper in spike-tail coats.”
* * * *
One of the questions in geography at the
last matric. exam, in Melbourne was “What are
the real and apparent motions of the sun and
moon ? ” An enterprising female candidate, after
stating that the moon revolved round the earth,
went on to say: “ The sun also circumlocutes
around a large, unknown body, which is probably
Heaven ! ” And yet they complain of the godless
system of education in Victoria. Another ques-
tion—how to find out the difference in time
between Melbourne and Adelaide —was solved by
“telephoning to Adelaide and finding out the
time there.”
* * * *
One Southern M.P. is afflicted with
a jealous wife. The couple are well-advanced
in life, and the hub. is as homely as a slab chimney
and as flighty as an iron cherub, but his wife fol-
lows him about persistently, and keeps a keen and
anxious eye on the statesman. She does not chase
him into the House, but she is never far away
when the member is sitting, and hovers around,
ready to take him in tow when the Assembly dis-
misses. The dread that he will escape by a
back door some night, and go and have a wild and
woolly time “ on his own ” is plainly telling upon
the devoted lady. One night Mrs. M.P., having
missed her lord for quite a quarter of an hour,
streamed into the well-filled billiard-room of the
hotel at which they were staying, with her hair
flying loose, crying : “ Have any av yez seen
Misther Blank ? Great Hivins ! have yez seen me
man?” They had seen him. The M.P. was sit-
ting at the other end of the room, dozing behind a
fat cigar. He looked quite the saddest man on
earth as he passed out in charge.
• * * *
It is risky in the hot season to walk through
a backblock town at daybreak. Nearly everybody
who isn’t anybody in particular sleeps in the open.
Footpaths alongside of pubs, are lined with
lodgers—who make no signs when passers-by step
over their bodies. Whole families are stretched
out side by side on the verandahs, their scanty
bedclothes the toy of the light morning breeze.
* * * *
In a Sydney weekly’s marriage-notice :
«The bridegroom’s present to the bride was a
handsome diamond brooch, besides many other
beautiful things in cut-glass.”
* * * *
In these days of Advanced Womanhood,
the less noble animal still scores—sometimes. A
man and his wife were recently locked up at Is.
Melbourne for drunkenness, and fined 55., m
default 24 hours. Hubby paid his own fine, but
allowed the wife to “ take it out! ”
Dear Bulletin, —You are quite right about
Bishop Goe having brought about three-fourths
of his clergy down on him by appointing a cherubic
collegian with an eye-glass and a treacly drawl to
the snug little fat cure of Baldwyn. But sas-
siety ”is mightier than merit The nominee. Rev.
Evelyn Snodgrass (invariably abbreviated by un-
regenerate undergrads to Snoddy ) is the little
brother of Mrs. Bart. Clarke. “ Snoddy is, there-
fore, brother-in-law to W. ,J. Clarke, Bart. ; also,
through blood and marriage mixtures, Snoddy
is, through the Clarkes and Snodgrasses, more 01
less related to most of Melb. s old families, and
therefore to pretty well all Melb. sa,ssiety Ryans,
Rowans, Stawells, A’Becketts, Verdons, Weigalls,
&c. —and to British Scotts, Beresfonis &c. So
much for the “sassiety lever. But the Trinity
College lever was also put on, m view of the adage,
“gratitude is a lively sense of favors to come.
Of said Trinity College, Bishop Goe is the head.
To Bill and Joe Clarke the college is indebted for
its Clarke Buildings, and to Mrs. Clarke for
Trinity Hostel (Janet Clarke Buildings). >
“Snoddy” was pitchforked into Bald wyn in ex-
change for bricks and mortar, or as interest on a
mortgage thereon. Great is sassiety and
prevail. —X.Z. „
Melb * “ One Yatman has been doing the
M'Neill With all respect to people who try to
do some good, one must point out that these meet-
ings are stuffed with churchgoers, who empty their
own places, and thus there is unvarying hatred
between the regular parson and the evangelist.”
* * * »
In Melbourne safety matches are retailed
at Id. per packet of 10 boxes of the usual size.
MRS. MALA PROP AGAIN.
(At after noon-tea. The new bishop under discussion.)
ONE WHO CAME OUT IN THE 40[?]: "I love the dear bishop. He's such a fluid speaker, and
it's quite a treat to hear his extrumpery sermons.”
The secret of the “demon of cheapness” is on
the label —“Made in Yokohama, Japan.”
* * * »
A man found guilty of assaulting with
intent a girl a<ed 10 was told by Justice Hodges
that “the only thing in his favor was that he was
of somewhat deficient intelligence.” Otherwise he
would punish him severely. The sentence was
two years, two lashings, and two periods of soli-
ROUTGEN's PHOTOGRAPHY.
A frog and a living hand, as taken by the marvellous process which photo-
graphs through flcsh, and through substances so opaque as wood and metal.
From “ The Lancet.”
tary confinement—for being a person 19 years of
a"e and of “somewhat deficient intelligence.”
What would be an adequate punishment for being
a Judge of “ somewhat deficient ” ethical sense ?
* * » *
Half-a-dozen Chinese converts were lately
baptised in public at St. John’s C. of E., Melb.
There can be no doubt as to the sincerity of these
six. A Chow who will stand contact with water
for the sake of his new-found faith is all wool.
* * * *
Minister Cadman, of Maoriland, was lately
deputationised by four young ladies, who peti-
tioned for the retention of the young, unmarried
stationmaster at Waikato (M.L.) under orders to
shift. Here were five sure votes for the Ministry
at next election, but Cadman was so staggered
that tie couldn’t make up his mind, and said he’d
see about it.
W.A. Post-office ways. Writes a former
Melboumite from Coolgardie : “I get letters a
fortnight after the date of the P.O. stamp. If
you complain no redress can be obtained. I get
about" ljalf the newspapers sent me, and people
tell me lam lucky. About fii tons of newspapers
were burnt here some time back, because sorters
had not the time to sort them.”
Opium smoking, writes a
Bulletin correspondent, is
spreading so alarmingly in the
N.S.W. back country that it
will soon be “smart fellow;
pity he smokes,” instead of
“ pity he drinks.” Many of the
society-shunning “hatters” on
the Western creeks, generally
thought to be cranky, are really
opium-smokers. Two shearers
the writer knows exchange their
yearly cheques for opium, and
camp for months alone in hid-
den bends of the Darling.
Though paying dearly for it,
few get the real stuff; the
Chows grin and specially pre-
pare an adulterated composition
—worse than the pure poison—-
for white customers. “Drink
is a curse, but the want of it
is worse.” Even more so with
opium. Once over their suf-
ferings, and fairly recovered
without opium, the drug-victim
could leave off smoking for ever.
But, as a rule, Satan arrives at
the last moment in the shape of
a squatter’s Chinese gardener,
to whom tbe half-dead maniac,
if hard-up, prays on his knees
for a smoke. The Chow may
tantalise him awhile, but
generally “ obliges,”
for ulterior reasons.
Oliver’s re-
port has knock-
ed the bottom
out of the Ar-
cadian theory of
Norfolk Island
existence. “ Is-
land in adeplor-
able state;
crime rampant
and unchecked,
and the morals
of the younger
people as low as
they could pos-
sibly be!”
“ Dear sacred
bowers of inno-
cence and ease !”
There is no grog
sold there, and
the chief occu-
pation of the
islanders is psalm-singing.
* * * *
N.S.W. Judge Docker is scandalised at
discovering that a publican is a J.P. What about
the wholesale wine-and-spirit merchants ? And
the brewers ?
* * * *
Churches are the respectable halls of
respectable trades-unions.
“THE FATE OF FATE.”
Drivel of sounds sublime.
Scratching the itch of Itch !
Tell me the time of Time ;
Tell me the which of Which.
Give me the weight of Weight;
Tell me the what of
Seek you “ the Fate of Fate ” ?
Here is the rot of Rot!
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
THE SERPENT’S LEGACY.
An apple caused man’s fall —so some believe;
But that old Snake, malevolently wise,
A deadlier snare left when he gave to Eve
His tongue of honey and mesmeric eyes.
Melb.
V.J.D.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Same and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
Sigma (B.): Thanks D.F. : “Sun” excel-
lent W.E.H. : “A Voice from the Bush” was written
by Mowbray Morris, now of London Times H.J.S. :
Very, very ancient Moorab : Looks a little unlikely
Wilga : As far as we remember, it was an over-gruesome
M.L. story, and was acknowledged long ago. Bulletin
tired of literary coffin-gear A. M’Kehey : The only
connection between Colonial Enterprise and The Bulle-
tin is that existent between the thief and his victim. 0.
Enterprise steals Bulletin matter without acknowledg-
ment M‘G. : “Pants” ingenious, too strong; police
yarn too fresh for repetition Saint: “Federation”
stiff S.A.M. : Point: “Marriage, to be more than a
name, must be a union of senses as well as of head and
heart.” Luke C. : No harm in the mountain bringing
forth a mouse once in a way, but we didn’t ask you to
keep on M.A.R. : Ballade stiff; must manage rhymes
without archaisms like “dispart,” “ lear,” “ a-bye.”
Zad. : “Sentiment,” not humor, is your domain C.R. :
“Race” not over bright or savory . .C.F.F.: Have you
ever considered what a grotesque impertinence it is for
one atom of human dust to assure another atom that the
Lord of all the shining universes walks, talks, looks, and
thinks “just so”? L.R.M. : Where does the joke
come in? J.D. : Already noted Ph.D. : Noted
J.D. : In short, the D.T. says Minister Lyne was wrong in
buying pipes locally at an advanced price because that
was Protection. But Minister Reid is right in doing the
same because it isn’t Protection, only a matter of con-
venience Jack Smith : “Pastoral Maunderings” are
not the kind of maunderings that this paper maunders
with Fan Tom : The man died in a pub. The con-
stable who came to investigate was accommodated in the
coffee-room. The dinner beef was bad, and the deceased’s
will was d Ted the day after his death. Then you stop
suddenly Captain Bob : 21 verses about a profane
skipper. No, thanks Clara P. (Otago): Don’t care for
the unspecified hero who lay dead after the battle of no
place in particular, and whose lovely bride came in the
moonshine with her long hair to weep over his dust. It is
too unreal J.A.M. : Sorry, but 13 pp. of dark moan-
ings about the supernatural are too much A.. (Coon-
amble) : May use Chasm : Nicely written but dread-
fully ordinary. Ordinariness is unpardonable M.G. :
Hardly up to mark Bush Lad (Wairarapa) : Pome
about farmer Sykes and his plough and his pig declined.
Anti-Humbug : Thanks for letter Nack : Publican
liquored up the six fossickers because he thought Bill’s
bag contained 12oz. gold whereas it was only lib. sand.
That’s all Alfred F. Gilmore : Please send full address.
W.A.S. : “ All Potent” may have to stand awhile
G.A.M. : Unavailable .... Canto : Ten per cent, of fatal
cases in typhoid isn’t a “high” average P.K. : The
English people dislike the French much less than they dis-
like the Germans. Anyone who controverts this knows
nothing of England or the English G.W. : As a
matter of fact Melb. University never had a founder.
Parliament in the fifties, in the gold-boom days, found
itself saddled with big surpluses, and when someone
casually said, “Oh, let’s have a University—Sydney’s got
one,” the idea took shape Mackenzie: Real Freetrade
means chattel slavery. Freetrade calls Labor a com-
modity, and a human soul a thing to be bought in the
cheapest market H.L. : Letters for you ; send address.
W.J.P. : Delicious hash of all the old melodramatic
sensations —affecting parting of English lovers ; off to the
land of gold ; she follows ; “ sorry to say, madam, he’s in
gaol for forgery ”; consternation, barmaid, private
bar, fine or imprisonment; customer pays—condition-
ally ; released forger accosted at G.P.O. —“Jack!”
“May!”; one suicide, one lunatic—Bravo ! C.P.C. :
The “ blanky jest” has no inside to it-it’s only an empty
suit of borrowed clothes Lucian K. : Yarn about
woman with conscience pointless. Doubt very much
whether woman has a conscience—an enlightened sense
of duty. What she mistakes for it is a superstition—like
that which impelled Lady Burton to burn her husband’s
new “Arabian Nights” MS., the fruit of years of toil and
unique knowledge—a deed to make his ghost gnash its
teeth; or an affectionate sentiment —like that which
impelled Mrs. Historian Green to take up the plough where
her husband’s hands left it; or a bondage to conventionality
—like that which makes women walking in the parks on
Sunday morning carry prayer-books, although they don’t
go to church Scamp : Seduction, abortion, suicide—
passed Mac. : Some vigor -rather long for it, and too
much “ sir.” R.K. : “ Doubt dying ” not grace enough
to balance triviality Sonney : Not up Harcourt :
Psychology vague and inconclusive —one concentrated
flash : Men, like crows, love carrion, and grab at the
festering newspaper from afar G.B.M. : Blankier than
ever H.C.I. : Your “stirring” theme turns out to be
the absorption of the same old cheque at the same old
pub Vox Pop. : You have the true Irish flux of words.
This paper believes even the balm of Gilead —whatever it
was —would be a lot better for a boiling down Phil
B. : Dull yarn—possibly bright par R.G. F. : Polysylla-
bles on stilts take ’em off and cut ’em down E.E. :
Point not new, and, as stated, not convincing F. : You
think “ Banjo’s ” and Lawson’s success will start a boom of
doggerel-makers— e.g., Jawbone Neild —whose pangs will
overweight B.’s and L.’s pleasures : and quote Heine —
the rare joy of good music doubtfully compensates the
common misery of bad. But bad music strikes your ears
unaware, and you can shut your eyes to bad verse, so the
analogy won’t fit .... J.D. : “Lepping” may do; believe
“M.J.U.” ans. “unsuitable”; Lawson posted Penne-
grab: Not half bad verse —all bad .. . .Sandy Mac. : Flat.
Petro : Its originality is indeed eloquent Jackass:
Promise of humor —unkept Nemo : Lines like “ slushy
stuff of which kangaroos and emus drink their fill,
and in it lay down and die,” appear to point some
vague moral. Anyhow, we took warning O.H. :
Smeared with the slime of the treacherous tract
Protest : You don’t know your own sex. Amazing what
a lot of women are helplessly carried through life on the
backs of their fathers and hus ands, swathed like picca-
ninnies in conventions and pious formulas. And, worse off
than the piccaninny, even their eyes are bandaged. Who
was it said that the Turk immures his women’s bodies,
the Englishman his women’s minds ? Or did we dream it
ourselves? Old Maid: Have some respect for your
wild imagination, but you must tether it more closely to
probabilities or apparent probabilities J.H.H. : One
indecent anecdote received. Do you feel very proud that
you are able to tell an indecent anecdote, or only as proud
as that tyC. ? Darragh : Wants capable telling ; your
humor and your pathos are alike unreal Jack S. : Go
and gaze at your own swelled head Bigot: Apparently
malicious ; stupid, anyhow John M. (Big Hill): Will
you sign it and so guarantee its originality ? It smacks
strongly of London J.D. : It may be all true, but you
couldn’t prove it, and it is in every sense a serious thing
to charge a Judge with corruption Aloe : “ When is a
man drunk?” When he can't say “ irresponsible ra-
prehensibility.” H. J. M‘C. : Merely a misprint of
“his” for “the”; reading the sentences you will see
that’s so Wacky: “It was ‘ in-and-out’ running that
killed sporting.” On the contrary, it was the display of
true form by leading peds that put “ the set ” on the game.
A. (Coonamble): Better send it to the girl herself
Mrs. Squeers : Sorry none usable J.R.S. (S.A.) :To
impute “motives” to him despite his assertion of bona-
jides would never do Kaka : Apparently written by
one of the blushless spongers who infested the Sydney
studio of open-handed Rhil May. They were all, one re-
members, read}' to give him advice W.H.O. : Will
print shortly Leonard A. : Too doggerelish ; don’t re-
member that alleged approval (IxB : Some used, but
don’t forget that your own little corner isn’t “ the bush.”
Outcast : Too mixed ; though there’s a lot of scope in
the tragedy of the boarder-Cassio. “Policeman” flat,


The Wild-Cat Column .
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society has
Just concluded the best year, so far, in its history. The
ordinary premiums received were £28,219, against £26,741
in 1894, and the interest receipts were £7670, equal to 6
per cent, per annum on the society’s funds—the best rate
shown at present by any Australian life office. The in-
terest receipts alone have covered death claims, bonuses
paid in cash, endowment claims, annuities, and surrenders
—which is a unique experience, and the funds have in-
creased during the year by £14,260. A sum of £2182 has
been written off securities to cover depreciation, and £lOOO
set aside as a provision for future depreciation, which is a
more liberal provision than the average, and shows that
the society is doing its best to take credit only for the
actual present worth of its securities, and to avoid any
bogus valuations.
The most objectionable feature ? as usual, is the
expense rate, which, leaving out the industrial business,
is equal to 36 per cent, of the premiums, or 28 per cent,
of the total income from premiums and interest. This is
the very highest expense rate in Australia. It is con-
siderably less than last year, but in 1894 the ex’s were
abnormally swollen by a big lawsuit, and, leaving that
item out of the question, and dealing with the ordinary
charges only, there is no improvement whatever as com-
pared with ’94. Also, this office is one of the two
Australian societies which follows the decidedly dubious
practice of reckoning as an asset “deferred instalments of
annual premiums,” which amount to £7078. Said item is
apparently arrived at by assuming that the premium in
every case should be paid annually, and if it is paid half-
yearly or quarterly or monthly (the City Mutual is the
only office which takes monthly payments) the quarter’s or
half-year’s or three-quarters’ or ten months’ premium
which may be not yet due at the end of the
year is set down as an asset. It isn’t a saleable
asset; the assured can’t be compelled to pay it, and
he doesn’t even promise to pay it unless he feels
that way inclined, therefore the value of this kind of
alleged asset is very dubious indeed. Only one other
office besides the City Mutual reckons “ deferred instal-
ments” in this way, and it would be much better if both
these institutions swore off.
The City Mutual is an office which takes con-
siderable risks. In the rush of competition it has cut
premiums lower, in almost every case, than any other
Australian office. It offers as much insurance, under
some of its tables, for £lOO as the A.M.P. does for £lll,
while its expenses are so much heavier that, after they
are deducted, it offers as much insurance for £79 as the
A.M.P. gives for £lOl. It also offers about 20 per cent,
larger an annuity than the A.M.P. does for the same
money. When a policy-holder dies the City Mutual
will, if he has so directed, keep his money in hand
for a long series of years, and pay his widow 5 per
cent, interest upon it. Considering that no Austra-
lian office of any standing ventures to reckon confidently
on more than 4 per cent, interest as a sure thing in the
future, this pledge to pay 5 per cent, regardless of the
rate which may be earned looks somewhat reckless. The
A.M.P. does the same class of business, but charges an
extra rate to cover the chance that it may find itself,
before the end of the term, paying a higher rate of interest
than it receives. Allowing for the difference in the ex-
pense rate, the City Mutual seemingly offers this kind of
insurance 30 per cent, cheaper than the A.M.P. Cheap
insurance is all very good, but some day in the rush of
competition it may become too cheap to be good, and in
the dim future, when the inevitable Government audit
arrives, the State auditor may peremptorily close up as
bankrupt some offices in which a whole lot of good Aus-
tralian money is locked up. If the City Mutual gets busi-
ness by cutting below all other offices, obviously the next
one which is started will have to cut below the City
Mutual, and the process can’t be continued indefinitely.
The City Mutual has even begun to cut below
its own exceedingly low rates. It estimates that its 20-
year tontine policy for £lOOO on the life of a man aged
between 30 and 40 (say, average age 35) will be worth on
maturity (average age of assured, say, 55) £1950 cash.
And, if this is realised, it offers, should the insured so
prefer, an annuity of £2OO a year. Therefore, it offers
for £1950 an annuity which, even by its own tables, which
are the cheapest in Australia, can’t be sold under £2130,
while other offices value it much higher. This is a dis-
crepancy which wants a whole lot of explanation.
* * * »
The flotation of the S.A. loan in London at
something like 3J per cent., has set the local papers
whooping to the effect that now is the time, while money
is cheap, to convert the old loans into new ones at a
lower rate of interest, and S.A. Observer points out once
more that a conversion to 3 per cent, all round would save
these provinces a million or a million and a-half or more
per annum. So it would, but how is the conversion to be
done? When Australia has given the lender its written
guarantee to pay him 4 per cent, for 25 or 30 years longer,
to forcibly convert him would be repudiation, and to ask
him to give up his 4 per cent, security and take a 3 per
cent, instead would only lead him to throw mud at the
person who made the suggestion. Two things are cer-
tain : (1) Australian loans are floated for fixed periods,
therefore they can’t be converted till they fall due (most
of them about 1915 or 1920) without the concurrence of
the lender. (2) He won’t concur to give away a debenture
worth, say, £lO9 in the market for one worth only £lOO, or
to give up 4 per cent, in exchange for 3 without some
large inducement. If the Commonwealth Government
can so arrange things as to offer him the security of
United Australia provided he takes 3 per cent, consols,
and to leave him only the old shaky provincial security if
he insists on his 4 per cent, as at present, the extra
security may fetch him, or a great many of him, but there
is no prospect of doing it in any other way. The fact
that money is cheap is just the reason why this is not the
time to do a big conversion under present conditions.
When the British capitalist can't get 3 per cent, for his
cash, to take away a good 4 per cent, security from him is
like getting a piece of beef from a tiger.
* * * *
The English, Scottish and Australian Bank has
found it necessary to tone down its exceedingly cheeky
reconstruction scheme. Instead of cutting down the
interest on the 4*4 per cent, inscribed stock to 1)4 per
cent, certain with a possible 3 per cent, if earned, it is
now proposed to make the minimum interest 1)4 per
cent., rising to Z% per cent, if the earnings allow. That
is to say, every holder of the present 4)4 per cents is to
have his stock cut into two equal portions. One-half is to
carry 3 per cent, interest—no more and no less. The
other half carries from nothing up to 4)4 per cent, accord-
ing as the profits allow, which makes the lowest average
IJ4 per cent, and the highest possible average Z% per
cent. The % per cent, saved, if the bank ever earns it, is
to go to a reserve fund for the benefit of the cheap and
uncertain half of the stock.
* » » •
Sydney and Suburban Mutual Permanent
Building and Land Investment Association (to be called
hereafter, for brevity, the S.S.M.P.B. and L.1.A.) reports
that the loss for the year 1895 was £3395. In 1894 the
loss was £2126; in 1893 it was £2351, so things are not
improving. Interest on deposits was reduced a month
or two ago from 5 to 3 per cent., but, as this will save only
about £1250 a year, it won’t square accounts or anything
like it. The condition of this large and once prosperous
concern is about as bad as it can be. The reserve-fund,
which was £32,500 in ’9l, is wholly gone. There is an
acknowledged accumulated deficiency of £53,160, which
wipes out the largest half of the paid-up capital (£98,480),
and there is hardly any uncalled capital to fall back
upon. Probably the real deficiency is much larger,
for £156,000 worth of property is only set down as
returning £2367 net rents for the year, equal to a
little over 1J per cent, per annum, and it is tolerably
certain that properties returning £2367 would not sell
just now for £156,000, or anything like it. Certain city
leaseholds are among the assets, but these seem to have
cost last year £1346 more than they brought in.
Total receipts for the year were £2441, while the ex-
penditure was £5836, making the aforesaid shortage
of £3395, and the problem of saving £3395 out of £2441
looks almost hopeless. With its reserves all gone, its
paid-up capital more than half gone, practically no more
capital to call up, its leasehold property a dead loss, its
£89,000 worth of buildings, &c., burdened with a liability
of £41,000, its big overdraft, an income which doesn’t
cover half the expenditure, and some other things, the
situation of the society with the incomprehensibly long
name looks about hopeless, unless the boom comes along
again —which is about the last thing that can be reasonably
expected just now.
Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and Building
Qo. reports that it has only lost £3941 during 1895, and as
the loss for ’94 was £15,869, the comparative smallness Of
the 1895 deficit makes the co. feel somewhat better. The
present loss, however, is arrived at despite a reduction of
deposit interest to 2£ per cent., and when even that con-
cession hasn't stopped the downward movement, thing's
are rather serious. The co. has no reserve fund, and has
an accumulated shortage fn its assets of £13,530.
Its alleged £253,000 worth of property only yields
£5640 of rent and interest, equal to about 2) per cent.,
and as property won’t sell, as a rule, at prices which only
give 21 per cent, to the purchaser, the chances are that
another big writing-down is required in addition to the
£50,000 written-off in 1892. As the capital of £103,000
has already a £13,530 shortage against it, a big writing-
down might leave the S.P.F.L.B. Co. with very little
capital remaining. In 1895 the co.’s total revenue from
£255,000 worth of alleged assets was only £5700, and the
interest it had to pay bn £160,000 of deposits and mort-
gages alone was t. 6607, so, unless there is a big improve-
ment in sight somewhere, the estimate that the co. has
£89,000 of capital intact over and above its liabilities looks
like a paper surplus only. The present situation of the
Sydney land-banks shows that the collapse in Sydney was
about as bad as that in Melbourne, but instead of a fall it
was a slow crumbling away, and consequently was less
noticed.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania announces a
net profit for the half-year of £3261, which is the worst
return for a very long time past, and the 5 per cent. div.
and income-tax thereon have to be made up by taking a
little item of £l2 from the previous half-year’s balance.
Last half-year the 6 per cent. div. and income-tax were
made up by taking £74 from the funds, and for the half
ended 31st Dec., ’94, the 6 per cent. div. and tax were
made up by taking £67 from the same source. A similar
thing apparently happened for the six months ended
June, ’94, so the Commercial of Tasmania has been sailing
pretty close to the wind for a good while back. The insti-
tution has a paid-up capital of £141,492, a reserve-fund of
£190,000, and cash and liquid assets equal to nearly 40 per
cent, of its liabilities to the public, so its position looks
decidedly strong. Nevertheless, the habit it has got into
of paying away in divs. a little more than its current
profits is lamentable, and an institution 64 years old
ought to know better. Also the fact that the Commercial
now only earns 2j per cent, per annum net on the share-
holders’ funds looks as if business was pretty bad.
* * * *
The South Australian Insurance Co. pays its
usual interim dividend of 10 per cent, per annum, equal
to £3125. The S.A. Co. has now been about 30 years in
existence, and has a paid-up capital of £62,500 and £60,000
of reserves. But, despite its eminently respectable record,
its premium income only averages about £22,000 a year,
and only nine Australian offices have got beyond that
limit. The pressure of British and other foreign competi-
tion has sat like a nightmare on the Australian insurance
business from the very beginning. Maoriland’s two big
native offices, the New Zealand and South British, with
their £480,000 of combined annual premium income, are
bigger than all the fifteen native Australian insurance
companies put together.
* * * *
The Queensland Government’s balance in the
Q. N. Bank was given as £4,069,954 on September
30 last. In 1892, it appears that the Govt, balance was
£1,403,793, and the total deposits £8,256 151, therefore
the deposits of the public were £6,852,358. Now the
total deposits are £8,993,136, and the Government balance
£4,069,954; therefore it would appear that the public’s
deposits are only £4,923,182. If these figures are correct,
it would seem as if the Government was almost the only
new depositor the Q. N. Bank has nowadays. By the way,
the Q. N. Bank claims to have £2,300,000 in cash and liquid
assets, yet nothing seems to be said about releasing even
the first instalment of the reconstructed private deposits.
The Q. N. B. agreed to pay in 12 instalments, beginning
six years after the smash (in 1899), and extending to 1905,
which was the hardest reconstruction of the lot, and the
release of one or two instalments would be a blessing to a
good many people just now
* * *
The Australian provinces, it is alleged, now hold
more gold par head of population than any other country
in the world, and if they don’t they certainly come very
near to it. Yet whenever any loan is to be floated or any
big work undertaken the “ colonial,” often from sheer
force of habit, bolts to London to ask Bull for the money.
Within the last month or so it has been decided to ask
Bull for the capital to make electric trams in Auckland,
ditto in Brisbane, and to supply electric motive-power at
Walhalla (Vic.). If the Onehunga (M.L.) canal scheme
comes to anything, it is also proposed that it should be
offered to Bull, despite the fact that it is a national work
which should pay splendidly, and the co. which owns it
will be able to take toll of one-third, the com-
merce of Maoriland. The Sydney electric-lighting syndi-
cate scheme is also waiting to go ’Ome if its Act once
passes ; theCremorne colliery has already gone there ; so
have the Westralian mines, or most of them, and the Ben-
digo mines are beginning to go; ditto the mines of Charters
Towers, Reefton and Auckland. For very many of these
enterprises the money could be got quite as easily in Aus-
tralia ; the only difference is that Australia is only willing
to put up the needful capital and hold the shares as an
investment, while in London the man who has got the
concession can generally sell it for a big lump sum to a
syndicate, and the syndicate, by capitalising it at eight
times its value, can make a huge steal for itself out of the
flotation, and finally a £200,000 enterprise is burdened
with £1,000,000 capital, and the miserable country is ex-
pected to find divs. on all this unnecessary money. Of all
the swindles that ever struck this miserable land, the
influx of British capital is the worst.
* * * *
The good old British capitalist has laid his hand
already on the oil industry of Taranaki (M.L.). It is only
a very few months since the oil-wells began to look
promising, and the invariable J. Bull syndicate has now
secured the sole right to bore for petroleum over a large
tract of country. The Bulletin firmly believes that down
below the Briton will secure the sole right to work the
sulphur-deposits beside the lake of fire, and that he will
float the worm that dieth not into a co., and water the
stock.
* * * *
Victorian business houses are reaching out
vigorously for the Riverina trade. The Dibbs tariff
brought it to Sydney, but in the past two months of par-
tial Free-raid it has been fast going back again. All the
towns south of Wagga are nearer Melbourne than Sydney
by rail, therefore the Smellful City has all the advantage
now.
* * * *
One of the strange proceedings of the stinkful
City of Melbourne Bank was purchasing its own shares,
presumably with a view to creating an apparent demand
for them, and keeping up the price ; and the clerk, who
was forced to appear as the nominal owner of them or lose
his billet, though he didn’t get the dividend when there
was one, has just been put on the list for a few thousands
in calls. So, presumably, his furniture will be seized by
the liquidator, and he will go bankrupt, and be severely
lectured in the Insolvency Court, and have his certificate
suspended. The court, when it put him on the list, re-
ported that the transaction was “ illegal and fraudulent,”
but it has said nothing, so far, about dealing with the
people who did the fraud and illegality. It also offered
the miserable clerk its “ warmest sympathy,” and, as a
special favor, didn't order him to pay costs.
* * » *
Planet Building Society (Melb.) goes the old,
beaten track to reconstruction. It wants deposit interest
reduced to 2)4 per cent., and the period of repayment
extended for three years.
* • * •
The N.S.W. banks are now getting money fixed
for twelve months and sometimes for two years at 3 per
cent., and the Victorian and S.A. banks have been getting
it at the same rate for 18 months past. Victoria and S.A.
also propose reducing the rate for long-dated deposits to
2) per cent. Vic. Savings Bank gets money at 2 and 2)4
percent., and has been doing so for a long time. Yet
within the last few months three out of the seven pro-
vinces have gone to London to borrow money at about 3)4
per cent., and nearly blew the roof off the universe with
their whoopings when they got it. Also, the Maoriland
Government floated a £2,000,000 loan in London at 4 per
cent., and then proceeded to sell debentures locally for
3) The idea of giving the poor, miserable “ colonial ”
the 4 per cent, loan wasn’t even thought of.
» » * •
Attention, remarks The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, may be drawn to the fact that present
Australian frozen mutton quotations are Is. Bd. to Is. 9d.
per stone (81b.) for Sydney, and Is. lOd. to 2s. for Mel-
bourne. It is impossible to fathom the reason for such a
wide difference, but it probably is that, as usual, the Vic.
people are more careful in selection and freezing.
* * * *
Tasmanian honey brings 275. 6d. per cwt. in the
London market as against 15s. to 17s. 6d. for Australian
honey. Why? Australian beeswax, principally from
'Queensland, brings £7 10s. per cwt., and is only beaten in
price by the Jamaica article, which sells readily at £8 ss.
Several directors of financial institutions declared
in the Vic. Council debate on the Companies Bill that
“ responsible men must retire from the management of
companies if the new provisions become law. These new
provisions aimed at giving some additional security to
shareholders and depositors by imposing a criminal
liability on certain fraudulent or grossly negligent acts
where previously there was only a civil liability, oo the
Bill was thrown out and Fat Man is still to be allowed to
compound with Pentridge for a farthing in the £.
* » * *
Negotiations for an understanding between the
rival Manly ferry companies, with a view to ending the
war, are understood to be well advanced.
* * * *
As a result of the success of the Bendigo Co-
Operative Bakery, steps are being taken to form a similar
co. in Ballarat, but on more extensive lines, under the
title of the Ballarat Co-Operative Distributing Co.
* * * *
Spectatress : Comets are a good stock, but
cannot advise as to what proportion of your small earn-
ings you should invest. Co. has 3500 in hand, but divs.
are delayed till the mine is proved at lower levels. Should
the co. pick up the ore chute in the new 335 ft. level —and
there is no reason to think it will not—the shares will see
£ 1 sure, as the development would stamp the mine’s per-
manency. It will be six weeks at least before the level is
proved. Between the 210 and 261 ft. levels the ore was
much more noticeable than that taken from shallower
levels. Co. 100,000 shares of 10s. paid to ss.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation (Ashcroft’s process)
Ltd., which owns the Central mine, has nearly got itself
disliked by Broken Hill miners, whom it has certainly
made suspicious. Since the strike the day-wage for
miners has been 9s. ; but this co., representing to Ballarat
miners that the current rate was 505., induced 30 or more
to sign for that, and so they were taken up—though the
B.H. labor-market is crowded. But manager Adams in a
few hours saw the mistake and —it was merely an error on
the part of the agents. The agents were not responsible
for importing men to a place where already the supply is
hundreds ahead of the demand.
B.H. Junction North’s statement of accounts
disappointed many people. But, though The Bulletin
has damped the ardor of those who have lately been
“ bulling ” this stock, this at least must be said : both the
mine and immediate prospects are better than the balance-
sheet. The documents are compiled as at Jan. 31 —and
that was just the mine’s turning-point. Joel Phillips had
just taken charge and put an end to the little pig-rooting
that had been practised ; 1056 tons of ore had been
raised, but not sold or drawn against. Since then, ship-
ments have been pretty steady, if small; but" it has cost a
trifle to get things shipshape. What kind of work has
been done may be gauged by the fact that while £145 4s.
went in directors’ fees during the half-year, only £64 10s.
was paid for mine timber. All things considered, it is not
wonderful that Phillips, manager of the Junction, in-
sisted that he must either be general manager of the
Junction North, or have no share in the responsibilities
in connection with the property.
* » * *
On a recent date between 7000 and 8000 loads of
washdirt, estimated to contain from 3000 to 4000 oz. of
platinum as well as some gold, were stacked at Fifield,
N.S.W. 500 loads put through the "puddling machines
yielded up to expectations, one reaching £2 ss. per load,
platinum having gone up in price.
* * » *
Prentice Freehold, one of Rutherglen’s (Vic.)
few div. earners, won £31,483 worth of gold last half.
Not so good as the previous term, but when the eastern
ground—into which the gutter took a sharp bend—is
more developed, the yields should brighten up again.
Average per fathom of wash, 16dwt. 12grs. Divs., £9750,
making the grand total close on £50,000.
* * » *
Harrietville (Vic.) promises to have another
flutter if the new reefs stay to a depth and live up to the
pre-battery “boost.” They talk of 3 and 4oz. stone
from the Big Gun and its satellites. Also, prospectors
are selling their shows as quickly as possible.
* * * *
Much heart put into Maldon (Vic.) by the
Derby United cutting a 4ft. reef at 1324 ft. level-deepest
for the district. In ’95 t.be Derby just hung on to the div.
list with Is. 9d. on 40,000 issue. New make promises a
more payable yield.
* * * *
Bendigo’s two months’ record : Gold won,
26,3160 z ahead of the similar ’95 period ; divs.,
£21,631 15s. 6d.—£12,940 Is. Bd. ; calls, £24,166 6s. 10d.—
£22,336 15s. Id. On this progress ’96 should see Bendigo
well into the 200,0000 z. rank.
* * * •
The brothers O’Keefe (five), who have been
prospecting for two years, have brought in from Rogers
Hill, Ballarat district, specimens weighing about 471 b.
and estimated to contain 351 b. gold.
* * * *
North Prentice, Rutherglen (Vic.), from which
much was expected in ’95, still hangs fire. Variation in
stock, 525. to 19s. 6d. —price at time of writing. Difficulty
in getting at the wash lies in the slow drainage of ground,
but ere another six weeks elapse the North should be a
decent gold-winner, i.e. , if it can live up to the 15dwt.
average its barrackers claim.
» * * •
Londonderry, Bendigo, has been “dealing it
out.” Three weeks ago a rich patch and £2 div. boomed
the stock from I'll to £26. Small buvers came at the
scrip open-mouthed, got it, and now are wailing, for once
again the inside crowd has done ’em. Immediately the
yields tumbled—3odwt., 24dwt., 15dwt.— scrip ditto,' back
to £ll 2s 6d. To make Feb. 29 yield average betted,
320 z. from two plates was surreptitiously included in the
returns ; and now the Bendigo people howl for some-
body’s blood.
Shenandoah, 525 loads for 608 oz. 9dwt. ; Is. div.
Yields of this class from Bendigo’s deep levels show what
the field is yet capable of. Last week an 18in. 10ft.-high
band of gold—a show rarely surpassed in the rich shallow
days, and estimated to go 50oz. to the ton—was exposed
m the 2782 ft. north level, and a few trucks of it
“ sweetened ” the crushing.
• * * •
Dear Bulletin,—Vic. Govt.’s refusal to renew
David Henry’s usury advt. contract is a noble piece of
aerial clawing Henry only represents one species of the
pawnbroking, banking, soliciting, life - assuring and
auctioneering family of sparrowhawks, who lend money
to the average man and pluck him accordingly: and
while the State holds the average man responsible for his
actions he will continue to be plucked. To minimise the
usury evil the Govt, will have to “ interfere with the
liberty of the subject” and protect him from the
dastardly onslaughts of his own vile hand ; it will have to
cancel, in special cases, the validity of his written pro-
mises and agreements ; and relieve from general liability
the “subject” who covenants to live solely in his night-
shirt for the remainder of his days, and to repay his loan
with its preposterous interest, at the rate of 10s per
week while he only receives ss. The average usurer
isn t a “ clever rogue ; ” it’s the average “ subject ” who is
such a deplorably hopeless fool.—Blunderbuss.
* • « •
That once good div.-yielder, New Chum and
Victoria, stdl battling along with rather depressing re-
sults. Shareholders are hopeful the Britishers will relieve
them of the necessit3 f of opening up the deeper levels.
* * * *.
Madame Berry epitaphed : “ A victim to
royalty. For had the Seven Hills Estate co.—fatter by
£130,000 royalty from this alluvial world-beater—reduced
its tribute, it is pretty certain the co. would have pros-
pected the S. E. portion of Madame, which carries a poorer
class of wash. In face of an exorbitant royalty, and the
known payable ground exhausted, the co. wouldn’t face
the job, which meant sinking a new shaft and other
expensive etceteras. Madame is not to be idle as the
land-owning co. may work the property. Record • gold
won about 355,0000 z., valued at £1,600,000 ; dividends
£850,000 , wages, £450,000; machinery and claim £4l 042!
The week before last’s yield, 5740 z. 14dwt. The’old ladv
peters out with colors flying, J
* * * *
Woods Point should be the next neglected Vic.
field to “star.’’ Back country alive with prospectors,
and just a suspicion of the old-time fabulous finds would
make the Point hum again.
* * * *
“Sheep Station is a good poor man’s field.” savs
a miner “ returned empty.” “ If he’s poor when he goes
there it will keep him poor, and if he isn’t it will soon
make him poor. The Age describes “ Millen’s Reef ” as
a n d ”u° d fo . ,? 0oz ’ to the ton - As a matter of
! ! e s ed sa >' s Thk Bulletin’s informant, is
a mullocked-up affair with three quartz veins running
through. It won’t pay to pick the stone, and to take the
lot carting and crushing ex’s would ruin a bank. Rich*
niond’s average, given by the Agk as 2Joz., is really 23
weights. If David Syme owned the Sheep Station, and
wanted to sell to a syndicate of Astors, he could not blow
its brass trumpet with greater enthusiasm.
# • • •
Pride and Stringer, the Yackandandah (Vio.)
mine that has patted and tortured so many sanguine
co’s, looks in for another run. The plucky co. that re-
opened it, after nearly dying twice, has struck a new 2
to 3ft. make, alleged to run from 7dwt. to 2oz. On per-
formances this mine is calculated to play the devil with
any reputation, for as a stringer-on it is matchless.
Little Wonder mine (15 miles from Doyle’s
Well, near Mount Malcolm, W.A.) The first crushing of
half a ton from the surface yielded 9700 z. gold; then Bcwt.
from the 70ft. level gave 4230 z. ; from 90ft. level 23cwt.
for 1310 oz. Last crushing from the Xsoft. level gave 2500 z.
from 4Scwt.
* » * *
At a meeting of a Westralian mining concern, in
Adelaide, Zeb. Lane remarked that there was an account
of £lO for whisky and champagne, but in the books the
whole thing was entered up as “ horsefeed.” Similarly an
account for wine and whisky was charged to the various
companies as oats, bran, and chaff. Whereupon the
chairman alleged that the accounts were not altogether
explainable, “ as things have to be done and money paid
at Coolgardie, the details of which cannot very well be
made public.” Interesting, certainly. “To get exemp-
tions, certain things have to be done,” said the chairman.
» * * »
Four English co. ’s working mines on the Mur-
chison—the Mallina, Kinsella, the Austin, and the Gol-
conda—are in the throes of reconstruction owing to in-
sufficiency of working capital. The Kinsella had £20,000.
Many others will follow this year when the co.’s find out
how much money it takes to work W.A. mines.
* * ♦ \ *
The solution of the Coolgardie water • prob-
lem is alleged to rest with Edmund Mitchell,
managing - director of the Scottish Westralia, in-
terviewed in London lately. The new process,
full details of which are withheld pending com-
pletion of the world-patents, is going to mark an era in
gold-mining and knock cyanide right out. He says
it does not exist in theory or model, but big results have
been got for some time on a practical scale. Consumption
of water, less than IGgal. per ton of ore treated;
complete extraction in 30 to 40min. ; slimes offer no
difficulties, indeed their presence adds to the facility of
the operation : no mercury is wanted ; no special skill is
required in handling the plant; thieves cannot get in and
steal the gold ; and, unlike all other systems, the last two
or three per cent, can be as easily won as the first. Such
are a few of the things it can do—if the bottom doesn’t
fall right out of the process on closer inspection.
* * * *
Brilliant and St. George, Charters Towers, usual
Is. div. for month, equal to £7500.
w m * m
Vesuvius, Charters Towers, talks amalgamation
with the adjoining English co. The Melb.-owned show
anticipates another 90ft. will cut the Just-in-Time reef,
and hopes at 740 ft. to pick up the Victoria Queen run.
Holders are told to pluck up more heart on reduced calls,
* • * •
The Wallaroo and Moonta Copper Mining Co.
pays a Is. div. 25th March. It has divided considerably
over £1,000,000 among the shareholders.
* * * *
The Angipena Treasure salting case, recently
tried in Adelaide, which ended in the conviction of
the accused, W. Rogers, was the biggest criminal case
heard in Adelaide for years. The trial was notable owing
to the fact that the purchasing syndicate consisted of—
suggestive number—4o S.A. legislators. Paddy Fitz-
patrick, a miner who was working on the mine from the
start and was employed by accused, was the chief Crow n
witness. In the box Fitzpatrick unblushingly related
how the visiting M’sß. were repeatedly deluded. One of
them, by the way, was White, M.P., who had just
returned from the West, and posed as a mm'ng expert.
White pronounced the formation to be—smile here !
remarkably similar to the Great Boulder, and this
statement in the prospectus went far to float the
mine. When Capt. Jones took charge of the mine he
couldn’t find gold anywhere ; but the whole thing can e
to light through a drunken squabble between Fitzpa ric ;
and Rogers which was overheard by two miners, and it
was on their evidence that the jury convicted.
* * * *
Since the year opened, copper has risen £4 12s.
fid. a ton, and in comparison with March, ’95, present
values are fc7 better. In these figures some people spot
the reason for Mt. Lyell’s “ buck.”
* » * *
Mt. Lyell has a peculiar history, and, as usual,
the man with the pick didn’t strike any “fat” in the
deal. Discoverers were Bill and Mick M’Donough and
Steve Karlson. Short of cash and also of faith in the
show, Bill, now grafting on the Mt. Lyell Consols, quitted
his share to James Crotty (to whom the mine practically
owes its life) for £3O, but Mick stuck in and eventually
parted his share to a Southern man. He is “missing”
in W.A., and his return, it is said, would give rise to a
big rumpus in the civil courts. As to Karlson, he didn’t
fare so badly. From three to six shares was the first split,
then 20, and in rotation 180 with 20 reserved, 1800,18,000,
180,000. 300,000.
How a certain Melb. silver crowd crept into
Mt. Lyell would make sweet reading. For something
like 50,000 shares they bargained to pay £18,500, but, in
the end, contrived to only pay £5OOO. One of the crowd
has bitterly' rued his hastiness. Some y'ears ago he un-
loaded his 8000 at £1 each. Never speak to him of
Lyells.
biext to Bowes Kelly (20,000) the Henrys, of
Tas., are the reputed biggest, stock-holders, with 17,000.
Metallurgist Schlapp has 12,000 ; his partner, Knox, 5000.
Lack of pluck lost Mount Lyell to Sydney. At
one time a local syndicate could have annexed the con-
trolling interest for £IO,IKK), but when it came to putting
up the money the syndicate funked. Then Melb. stepped
in.
Reminiscent of the boom - days. Last week
Mount Lyell debentures climbed from £162 to £202.
Sales few, and it is questionable if 30 changed hands.
Britishers are alleged to want the stock, but are not in a
hurry to pay too dear for it.
Flotation of several more Lyell “ pups ” on the
tapis.
* ♦ * *
As if by magic, Melb. dailies last week fairly
bristled with Ly'ell “ pups” reports. Also, the ear-chew-
ing has commenced. Every second Collins-street man
you meet knows a “good thing” in the Lyell litter, and
the directors are tearing round town putting their friends
“on.” °
» * * •
Silver Queen, Dundas (Tas.), promises Is. a
month for the next half. £ll,OOO in hand to start on.
Recently, shareholders emphatically protested against
further legal tilts at the Montana.
* * * *
New Golden Gate, Mathinna (Tas.), has been a
choice spec. On £2OOO capital (32,000 paid to 13) it has
*102,400. Aggregate millings, 74,560 tons for
. Avera g' e _ 18dwt. 18grs.; past half, 10,231 tons
for 8399 4 oz. (ex-pyrites). Big bodies of pay stone still in the
stopes, and the new reef at 1063 ft. is developing splen-
dialy. Looks a div. stock for a lon*. v time to come.
* * * *
Hauraki (M.L.) for month, 350 tons, 23980 z.
melted gold (£7200). Kapai-Vermont, 308 tons, 400 oz.
melted gold.
* * * *
Raspberry-pulping threatens to become an im-
portant industry for Wandin (Via) and the neighboring
village settlers. By this process the fruit is deprived of
c ® nt * of *ts moisture, and despatched unsugared in
bulk to England for jam-making. Eighty-two tons have
been so sent this season The Wandin people do well out
cmU-Li, the v , lllas ? e settlers - "’hose ground is admirably
* or . ras Pberries, need a short railway to lift them
out of their present state of 100-familied misery and semi-
v,A ° heap ’ na "ow-gauge line is the proposal,
Mp h nnf" has jested the rooting-up of the unused
r £ rcle land - b °oiner’s paddock line as a con-
-1"®“ fc ° the Permanent way of the Wandin scheme,
l ) .res e .nt't ' Ministry might do something to
into whilrtMul 8 t 0 I ? ra £ themselves out of the pi»
into which the M Intyre-Patterson crowd dumped them.
(“ Wild Cat ” continued an page 17.)


HSBS9H
CESEEa
<3-0 TO HELL-
TGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. ttd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.),
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
Sawmi Us, Engines,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
FINE CARRIAGES and WAGGONS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, &c.
WILLIAM PLEMIHG,
24 Clarence Street SYDNEY.
NOVELTY, NEWNESS, & FRESHNESS,
ARE THE CHARACTERISTIC S OF THE EXTENSIVE STOCK OF PHOTOGRAPHIC’
MATERIALS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION, NOW JUST LANDED BY
BAKER & BOUSE,
AND OPEN FOR INSPECTION AT THEIR SYDNEY WAREHOUSE. A CHOICE AND
VARIED LOT OF HAND CAMERAS, SUITABLE FOR YACHTSMEN AND CYCLISTS, AT
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Personal Items.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Oliver, who
lately reported on the condition of Norfolk Island,
is a native of that place.
Farmer Oates, of Mount Macquarie, near
Carcoar. N.S.W., has just completed his 100
years. Evidently no wild oats.
Lady Brassey gives great offence to the
unco good of Calvin-ridden Melbourne by visiting
people on Sunday on her bike.
A good comedian, facially, went astray
when Gov. Hampton took to politics. He recalls
—except in height—Sir William Don.
The secret release from gaol of ex-banker
Staples prompts the enquiry—Does anyone know
for certain whether Matt. Larkin, Esq., is still at
Pentridge ?
<( It is cabled that the English edition of
The Banjo’s ” “ Man from Snowy River ” will
be published in London on 19th inst., by Mac-
millan and Co.
It has been noticed with much astonish-
ment in London that White Knight Fitzgibbon
did not cable Queen Victoria on a recent melan-
choly occasion.
( S.A. Premier Kingston on Symon, Q.C. :
“ They might as well search for the milk of human
kindness in a glass eye, or for bowels in a billiard-
ball, as m Mr. Symon.”
At a M.L. Education Board meeting re-
cently the resignation of Miss Old was received
as a teacher in a country school, and Miss Young
was appointed in her place.
The veteran Col. Macdonald, who took a
prominent part in the Sydney farewell to Gen.
Button, was fighting with his regiment of horse
at Mooltan, India, as far back as 1839.
“ Jack” Gardiner, the once famous Carlton
cricketer, and, subsequently, as M.L. A., long the
mainstay of artists and writers for the Melb.
alleged comic press, is now in Westralia.
“I have never entered a pawnbroker’s
shop since I arrived in Australia,” said Parkes
once, discussing his monetary difficulties. The
remark was received with pardonable surprise.
“But,” the old man went on, “whenever I wanted
to deal with one of the brotherhood, I sent for
him.” ,
Photo, by Kerry.
Mr. C. T. B. TURNER, the Australian bowler, for
whom a public testimonial is now being raised.
Zox declared in Vic. Assembly that during
last session 5,500,000 words were spoken. Zox
ought to know : because he notes each word, look-
ing with hungry impatience for opportunity to
make insane puns.
Percy Spence, who had his hands full of
work in London, was at latest seriously contem-
plating a return to Sydney. The fogs of London
were too much for the rather fragile artist, nor did
the climate suit his wife.
N.S.W. Minister for Education, “ God-
fearing Garrard, ” has been lately on a round of
visits to Sydney public-schools. He has now oped
and trusted and granted an ’alf ’oliday in nearly
all the metropolitan schools.
The poetical works of Newton Goodrich,
the well-known Melb. pawnbroker, can be picked
up in any second-hand book-shop ; but the literary
offspring of the brain of a well-known Sydney per-
shenter, Mr. I. R. Cohen, is very rare.
A curiosity of Australian literature is “the
Select Poetical Works of T. Hart.” The author
advertises on the back of his title-page pick-
handles made to order.” Parkes did not adver-
tise his toy-shop in “Stolen Moments.
A well-known Argus reporter called on
coroner Youl for his biography—he “required it
for Blackwood.” But the old surgeon didnt
want his life in the Argus pigeon-holes, and said
to the reporter, “Just you call up when Im
dead.”
People who ought to know better are
saying that Marcus Clarke wrote “ The Critic
m Church,” the well-known series of criticisms of
Melb. ecclesiastical orators. Clarke did no such
thing; they were done by Howard Willoughby,
then editor of the D.T.
That clever descriptive writer, Ernest
Blackwell, formerly editor of the Centennial
Magazine, and one of the Soudan war-scribes,
has left quill-driving on Sydney Daily Telegraph
to practise his other profession, dentistry, in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney.
There is a curious story yet to be told of
Woolner, sculptor of the great Cook statue in
Sydney, and the Christchurch statue in Maori-
land, and Tennyson. It was an episode within
his own knowledge related by Woolner which
suggested “Enoch Arden.”
The total subscription for the poisoned
Mrs. Dean only amounted to £l2O, mostly sub-
scribed by lawyers. The public want of sympathy
was chiefly due to the fact that the subscription
was established not without a view of helping to
whitewash Judge Windeyer.
From Sydney Gazette, Saturday, July 7,
1810: “Birth. On Tuesday morning last, between
12 and 1 o'clock, the lady of the Rev. Mr. Cowper,
of a son.” The young gentleman thus quaintly
introduced is the present Dean Cowper, of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, now in his 86th year.
According to John Burns, Trenwith’s
chances of making travelling expenses by lectures
in England are small indeed. When Burns
delivers a lecture in the provinces to an audience
of one, two, or three thousand, he steadfastly
declines to accept more than his bare train-ex-
penses. Burns’s strenuous opposition to the “ tip-
ping ” system, which, he says, saps the manhood
of the British laboring classes, is losing him votes,
and may jeopardise his Parliamentary seat.
Thereareatleast three English papers which
will endeavor to do Judge Windeyer justice over
the Mt. Rennie business, should the P.C. appoint-
ment come within coo-ee. One of the three has
already reprinted the strong lines by Francis
Adams on Mount Rennie. The posthumous
edition of Adams’s poems has an explanatory note
on the Mt. Rennie crime which thus concludes :
“ The trial was most indecently hurried by a
Judge who made the affair, from the aspect of law
and justice, as evilly noteworthy as from other
aspects of it.”
The query goes round once more
—When is J. J. Shillinglaw’s “Lives of
Flinders and Bass” to appear? In
1876 the book was announced, and
in 1896 it is still in the same preliminary
stage.
Young Haddon Chambers (at
Sydney D.T. office they called him
“ Hadn’t ” Chambers), brother of the
successful Australian dramatist, is
making quite a name for himself in
American journalism. He is now con-
sidered good enough as a short-story
writer to be syndicated by some of the
biggest papers.
The general opinion in Naran-
dera is that, had George Dean been the
Hon. Geo. Bigdog, son of the Earl of
Yallerpup, the insanity in his family
would have saved him from gaol 10
times over. For years, his mother has
been a hopeless imbecile, unable to con-
tinuously recognise her own children—
one of whom, an utter idiot, has just
been sent to a lunatic asylum.
Gov. Brassey is one of the most
jealous of cyclists, and never permits
any hand but his own to clean his
jigger. One of the sights of Melb.
Guvmentouse is to see Her Majesty’s
representative (hats off !) attired in an
old yachting costume rubbing down his
“hungerless horse,” while Secretary
Wallington has “agonies ” in the back-
ground. Armed with a basin of kero-
sene, several bundles of cotton-waste,
and some weird instruments, H. E.
proceeds to splash the surrounding tiles
with grease. The gubernatorial arms
are generally black up to the elbow
after half-an-hour’s work, and sundry
smudges are also apparent on his vice-
regal face. A few days ago Premier
Turner and Minister Isaacs turned up
on affairs of State, and found the Go-
vernor sitting on the floor in the throes
of putting the ball-bearings into their
“ cups ” —a fearful task to the uniniti-
ated. The sight so touched Turner’s
heart that he squatted beside His Ex.
to give him a hand, and, after three-
quarters of an hour, they succeeded in
fixing up the machine. When it was
all screwed up, and apparently ready
for riding, Isaacs discovered the balls
still lying on the pavement, where they
had fallen unobserved during the
ordeal.
Henry Bournes Higgins, M.L.A. for Gee-
long, is the baldest man in Vic. Assembly. At
present the hairless desert is relieved by a large,
black patch made necessary by a fall from his
fiery steed. It looks like a beauty-spot that has
wandered from home and got lost on the One Tree
Plain.
Gov. Brassey has this stereotyped: “I
know that your cordial welcome is not intended
for me personally, but as the representative of
that Queen whom we all love and honor. lam
charged with a message of affection from the Old
Country to this noble young country,” &c., &c.
The Gumsuckers are getting tired of it.
Over a grave in the old Sandhills
(Sydney) Cemetery :
Sacred to the Memory of
WILLIAM T —, Esq.,
Who departed this life, Jan. 3,1845, aged 63 years.
He arrived in the colony, A.D., 1790. Deeply regretted
by a numerous circle of friends and relations.
The Grand Old Woman of Gippsland died
the other day, aged 80. She was the mother of
the first white child bom in S. Gippsland, and the
pioneer of Walhalla, having been the first to find
a track leading ' thither when an expedition
set out to succour Stringer and his party. She
was a splendid bushwoman, with a fine physique,
and had fought the blacks on many occasions in
the early days. Mrs. Hallett was her name, but
she was better known to old Gippslanders as Mrs.
Buntine.
Mrs. Mannington Caffyn, of “ The Yellow
Aster,” lives at Putney, on the edge of the Thames.
She is on the road to money, and lately received
£3O for a five-thousand-word story. Her doctor-
husband is thought by many to be the real author
of her two books, though he strongly denies the
indictment. Those who have read Mrs. Caffyn
and have also read Dr. Caffyn’s Bulletin stories,
and his “Poppy’s Tears,” will be able to form
their own opinion as to the alleged joint-author-
ship.
CULTIVATION OUT WEST.
NEW-CHUM: “ This is a wonderful country —grow anything, I believe.”
T’OTHER SIDER: “ Yes, sir; we can grow whiskers on wood.”
NEW CHUM: “ Not ”
T’OTHER SIDER: “ Fact; allow me, Mr. Chumley, my friend,
Mr. Wood.”
The irrepressible Mortimer Franklyn, not
content with earning =£7ooo a year in London as
an insurance-agent, in which branch of business he
is a veritable champion, wanted to become a mil-
lionaire, and so began dabbling on the Stock
Exchange ; but he lost .£14,000 in three months,
and with dire results. Clever as is the Hentys’
benefactor, the Capel Court people know a bit too
much for him. Up to date the grandiose gentle-
man who, in Melb. Insolvency Court, told Purves,
Q.C. (in reply to a question whether he hadn’t
pawned his watch, that he “ preferred the word
hypothecate ’”) has run a pair of high-steppers
in the Park and a lovely mansion at Lancaster
Gate.
William Pember Reeves, whose transfer to
the M.L. Agent-Generalship has cost the Seddon
Government his seat at Christchurch, was always
a whiteheaded boy. His father was well-known
as proprietor of Lyttleton Times, (Christchurch,
M.L.); himself, born in the Canterbury province,
made a brilliant record in the schools of its capital
city. Then he went to England, to Oxford
University, but his health broke down. He came
back to the City of the Plains, and rusti-
cated in the back-blocks for some time, regaining
strength and writing verses (“Colonial Couplets ”).
Next he entered at the Christchurch Bar, but
hardly crossed it, as all his lawyering consisted in
holding the snug sinecure of law reporter to the
Canterbury Law Society. Then he tackled cricket
and journalism, and wrote more light verse
Hon, W. P. BEEVES.
Photo. by Wrigglesworth and Bin
(“Poems in Partnership”—with Williams), until
“something happened.” Socialism seized him
(see his “ Socialism, by Pharos ”); he became
editor of the Lyttleton Times, and went into
Parliament first try. There, as a freelance, he
worried the Atkinson Ministry, till John Ballance
elevated him to office as Justice and Education,
afterwards giving him the task of founding the
new Department of Labor. This successfully
done, he has returned to England to fill the shoes
of Westby Perceval. Politically, Reeves is still a
promising youth, with all his troubles before him.
“ H. C. E. Childers, lately deceased, was
a respectable mediocrity, who (remarks The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent) owed the position
he attained in England almost entirely to his
wife, a clever and ambitious woman. Since she
died he has gradually passed out of notice. With
his Victorian pension and the needy ex-Minister’s
grant or allowance of £2OOO a year from this
country he managed to live comfortably, and I
should not be surprised if he cut up pretty well—
as people who pull poor mouths generally do,”
The ‘ ‘ Dick Whitting-
ton ” record of Australia
was possibly reached by
William Tunks, who was
Mayor of St. Leonards
(Sydney) for 16 years—lB67
to ’B2.
The curse of Deeming
still runs strong : Marshall
Lyle has lately come through
a very risky surgical opera-
tion. He is re-growing that
beard which he originally
shaved owing to the re-
semblance it gave him to
Muncacsky’s “Christ.”
Vic. Justice Hodges is
probably the nastiest-tem-
pered man on the Austra-
lian Bench. The other day
at Melb., during the pro-
gress of a criminal trial,
the court-orderly entered
and announced in an Irish
whisper to the associate that
the jury locked up to con-
sider another case had
agreed. The veteran Crown
Prosecutor Walsh, like
everybody else in the court,
heard the news, and, wish-
ing to save time, proposed
that the jury be at once
called in to give their ver-
dict. “ How do you know
they’ve agreed ? ” asked Mr.
Hodges in his most acid
manner. “ I just heard the
orderly say so, your Honor,”
replied Walsh. “ Well,”
snarled the learned judge,
leaning over his bench and
spitting out his words,
“just you mind your own
business. ” And all the Melb.
dailies are so careful of say-
ing anything nasty about a
Judge who might sit on
some future libel - action,
that no report of the inci-
dent appeared in any of
them.
Dr. Mannington Caffyn, the “ New Philo-
sopher ” of the Pall Mall, is now, says a Bul-
letin correspondent, writing a play. He is as
clever and crack-brained as ever, so something
really dramatic should be forthcoming. His boy
“ Paddy,” who was brought up on the new lines
set forth in the “Yellow Aster,” is, in spite of all,
as rational as when he livened up Brighton and
South Yarra. Mrs. Caffyn is again busy with her
pen.
One of the rare caricatures of N.S.W. is a
drawing by S. T. Gill, representing a one-time
celebrated old colonist in his capacity as Satan
(a wholesale wine-merchant) reproving Sin (a
drunken laboring-man). After the death of the
principal subject of the cartoon, his son, who
inherited his wealth, had a dispute with some
sporting men, who combined to offer a handsome
sum for the caricature, with the object of hanging
it in a well-known racing resort. The offer was
declined by the owner, and thus a mean revenge
was nipped in the bud.
‘ ‘ When a man took to mediocre minstrelsy
in the days of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster,”
groaned a N.S.W. politician, slowly and sourly,
the other evening, ‘ ‘ he was deprived of his politi-
cal, and almost of his human, rights. If robbed, he
had no redress ; if maltreated, he was obliged to
bear it. He was maimed and branded by the civil
power and was cursed by the "hurch. Is not a
John of Gaunt the fitting am i only punishment
for the tribe of barren im.istr-ts now cawing with
their heads up ? ” As a..r to the question, he
cast on the floor Jawbone N end’s well-bound and
gilded-on-three-edges volume of “poems,” and,
picking up from a side table a small volume of his
own “sonnets,” became presently lost in com-
placent admiration.
Florence O’Driscoll, once of Queensland,
is now reputedly a millionaire, and has lately
bought a Dublin journal, with the patriotic inten-
tion of redressing the wrongs of Ireland. A little
while ago he was drawn into a discussion on this
subject, avowing that “ he was a true Celt to the
backbone.” Someone in reply observed “that a
true Celt had invariably black hair, and that
O’Driscoll’s ‘ 18-carat ’ wig would exclude him
from the list.” Which remark (as intended)
roused the wrath of The O’Driscoll, who appealed
to Pritchard Morgan—once of Charters Towers.
“Don’t you remember, Morgan, that when I
visited you in Wales I remarked that nearly two-
thirds of the children had red hair ? ” “ Oh, yes,”
replied Morgan, quietly, ‘ ‘ but that was on the
occasion of your second visit to the place. ”
One of the identities of Parra matta-streer,
Sydney—now George-street West—for 30 years
before 1890, was one Whitbread, nominally iron-
monger, but actually Johnny-all-sorts shopkeeper.
He was found dead in bed one morning, six years
ago, and the manner of his death was enveloped
in mystery. Perhaps it was only a coincidence
that he had fixed the evening of the day on which
he was found dead for an interview on the subject
of the early days with a pressman. Though the
old man was known to be wealthy, his estate
panned out for nothing like the amount expected ;
and it has only just dawned upon a descendant of
the deceased that, when the house was white-
washed .after the clearing-out auction, certain"
cabalistic marks on the walls of the old man’s bed-
room, which were then effaced, contained the key
to the deposit of the treasure. Whitbread, by the
way, was one of the first to give Parkes employ-
ment in N.S. Wales, and had, at the time of his
death, among his unsaleable stock, some of the
ex-Premier’s early turnings.


Deputation to the Mines Department.—At
noon to-day Mr. Dowel will introduce a deputa-
tion to the Minister for Mines with reference to
the erection of a monument to eommemorato the
disco rery of gold in Australia.
'cr/c/cef-Team. P/cf? f~ Ay*”' u
u cnctxprpr- _ r
seltcfrdfo do Aa ' 7
aZenj'f.&j 5.
iJSgrg^
Ii % ,
fS#
S& Social TLnty Sock^y'
4 a J,p^XXl
Thia is the sort of stuff the Australian J
, newspaper reader swallows with hia break- A
fast: jj
LONDON, Thursday.—The first banquet |
of South Australian colonists in London was N
held last night, and proved a great success, i
The company numbered about 250, and in- [
eluded many distinguished guest 3. N
Sir James Fergusson, a former Governor ||
of South Australia, said that the soup was
excellent.
The Earl of Selborne agreed with Sir
James Fergusson, adding that soup of that
sort was calculated to draw closer those
silken bonds which unite the mother country
to her colonies.
Mr. Thomas Playford said that the oysters
were equal to any that he had ever caught in ;
South Australia, and were calculated to l
remove the depression which existed in his
colony and make the working classes con-
tented. t
Lord Rosebery responded to the toast of
‘ The Empire,” and declared that the
British Empire never rested on a surer basis
than at the moment he (Lord Rosebery)
swallowed the goose-liver course.
Sir Saul Samuel read a cablegram from
N.S. W. announcing that the Dean Curse was
about to be referred to the Privy Council.
Sir Saul congratulated the mother country
upon the prospect of having this very desir-
able curse in their midst, and said that it
would do more to cement the bonds even
than the soup course. (Laughter and pro- .
longed cheers.)
The Prince of Wales wept when the turtle
was brought on, and said he only wished that
Mr. Justice Wmdeyer were present
/t TtJe CLU£ - -
XM**-
r? £«'■<-/>% jujf ?•"'
Xrsssy**-- fo**?**? fcy*^“? se '
7fed ct/~ 7/([ Ca/>tey<zac/<jrctar/ers ■
feutfefr# /Tip
7c /fat •
jfpztoiv' T/f/zPys /yfepcf Sv/S'fy
q ?~e<g/ny£ty f~ /o ass/s/- <tear
OU /yo/fer CouyTry.
The reason
■why some people feel rather strongly on
the rag-picking question is contained in the
statement that much of the result, of the
rag-pickers’ industry goes to bedding fac-
tories. Refuse odds and ends of clothing,
which might better be destroyed in the
same fire as the rubbish from among which
they are rescued, are thankfully taken by
some of these factories at a low price and
converted into mattresses ?
/f°f SycCyey
/joaref//?*/- fpuje dpef /fa/ /rjus/
farf for? jyyfsa'sr/Jf Js’v/f py
A LOOK-BOUND


*tsr
MR. C. U. YAT MaR'S MISSION.
THE WFiCAOS Of IT.AVEU
{i^4
» / '.J'm 5
V
a;‘>'.v I
b'yJi
1 .Si" v St
\ s i|l t»’ I
VK^vP'
\of V*/°ih« |
llY J
e// /7s<°s<?Y/OJI. is 7>>sT/au,-
0/ raJ/narx.
'*£>««-
, J
lor-r .1 A , '. oy *>ronehta
~ c ousKlt ,o the door one <ay tnd rhen
rau away. On being uncovered it was found
to be filled With Rood things. There was
that h ,' llui “flit, and everything
that hunger couid desire, and the heoutv o?
it was that the meat wascoohed (f - "liter I
He never could find out where th ""basket
oame from. It was a n-vsterv I ’
Ranked God, and from that duv'hnd neve?
been la want. The secretary, to'fh,- m,"si on
informed turn tunt a man u i > alter/ , i,? n
meetings on Sunday 1....1 prayed for bein ,„,i
harl o°t it. That man I, ,d >. meet a l/M o
£2OO, and had not a cent |,„ i, .
and bad nowdto.f the ijiniey] ' 1 p
if
L e 's returned,
" me duurn
ajAckatt-
4>:v:
Z T>^
A number of gentlemen waited on Mr.
J. L. Turves, Q.C., yesterday evening and
strongly urged that lie would allow himself
to be nominated as a candidate for the repre-
sentation of this colony at the Federal Con-
vention to frame the Australasian Federa-
tion Bill.
(/ t .
ouf
-Ur-f M y?f's///f/e .
Mr. Pan ten : I am at all times perfeotly satis-
fled with my own decisions in everything.
e
10/me/-
" Aas
"— _ \ Q e< ~ 7 °^at)-r\
-amonfr/-/i/s oM
G Gf C /t € f~S $
MELBOURNIAN.


|y| ELACH Rl NO v '
—* Cigarettes.
M. MELACHRINO & CO.,
CAIRO,
Largest Manufacturers of the
Best Egyptian Cigarettes.
Supplied to over 200 London Clubs and
Regimental Messes.
Hand Made. Absolutely Pure.
To be had from all Leading Tobacconists.
CaledonianLiqueurWhisky
FOSTER’S
ALE & STOUT,
WHISKY & GIN.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World,
W, BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
The Old Blervd
J «
Edinburgh.
Wlusky
°f tK - e iT e Horse
WHI
Cellar
DIRECT PROM DISTILLERS.
AUKAIS TNC SAME. PURE. MELLfr
MUtfUIULO SCOTCM MALT
POLITICAL
POINTS
“England is not our mother, but Europe.”
•—Amer.
Victoria’s population is estimated at
1,182,000, with 20 men for every 19 women.
Trenwith promises to speak in Adelaide at
the end of March while en route to England.
“ This Ministry came into office together,
has stood together, and will fall together.”—
Premier Turner.
In Leperland, writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent, white men usually lease or own sugar-
farms and employ Kanakas to work them. On
the Tweed River (N.S.W.) the reverse obtains.
There Kanakas lease farms and employ whites to
do the work.
M.L.* Agent-General Reeves, when in
Sydney in Jan., said that province’s unemployed
difficulty had practically disappeared. The chair-
man of the M.L. “ Surplus Labor League ” writes
to The Bulletin that this statement is “ a base
fabrication. ”
The rumor has been extensively circulated
throughout Queensland that W. O. Hodgkinson
intended coming back to contest some Q. consti-
tuency this election. Hodgkinson denies this,
and asserts that if he re-enters public life it will
be in the Westralian Parliament.
The S.A. so-called National Defence League
has begun the game of boycott. The chairman of
one of the election committees for Mayor Tucker,
who is opposing Harrold, President of North Ade-
laide Ass., has been told that he will lose his
salaried position if he doesn’t quiet down.
The School Paper for Class 111., issued by
the Vic. Education Department, the Argus is
delighted to see, “concludes with the words and
music of ‘ God Save the Queen.’ ” The purpose of
these papers was to “ provide the children with
new reading matter of an interesting Australian
character.” The Unnatural Anathema is new,
interesting, and Australian.
Jessep, the new member for Waverley,
(N.S.W.) wants to develope the fruit-export trade
of the country. Which sounds like wild sarcasm,
seeing that under the Jessep Foreign-trade policy
the local fruit-growers can’t even command the
market of Sydney (where recently 1700 cases of
foreign fruit were landed in two days), let alone
that of places further distant.
N.S.W. Attorney-
General Wan t has plead ed
Parliamentary privilege
in the libel- action brought
against him by Crick.
The Crick-Want feud is
not dead, but only
sleepeth.
Premier Kingston,
by enacting payment of
S.A. Leg. Council mem-
bers, tamed and demo-
cratised that once crassly -
Tory body. Paid, con-
stantly renewed, and
elected on a wide fran-
chise, it is amenable to
reason.
The S.A. Tory fac-
tion apparently intends
to make attacks on
Premier Kingston’s pri-
vate character a leading
item in the general
elections, and is indus-
triously promulgating the
idea that the Premier's
proper name is Charles
(de) Cameron Kingston.
Recently Symon, Q.C.,
who quarrelled with
Kingston last year, made
a vitriolic speech in which
sarcastic comments on
the Premier’s Portuguese
descent were prominent.
Kingston can take care
of himself, and he is
credited with the pre-
paration of a reply which
registers about 240° in
the shade.
Symon, Q.C., although strongly pressed
by Adelaide Tory friends, has weighty reasons for
not rushing into an election. In ’B7 he deserted
Sturt, which was certain to reject him, for Victoria
district, and, much to his chagrin, was badly de-
feated. Another defeat in ’96 would be too, too
much !
A Melb. Trades Hall J.P., accused of
favoring the side of labor when adjudicating, de-
posed before the Lormer Board that on visiting
Collingwood court, where a o trike prosecution was
listed, he was approached by a capitalist J.P. who
coolly suggested that, as he wanted to get away,
they should agree to “ pair ! ”
The Post Office Act Amendment Bill of
the Turner Govt, has been emasculated by the
consolidated Fat Man. In the measure designed
by the Ministry, it was set out that a newspaper
would only enjoy postal privileges when printed
from type set up in Victoria or from plates cast
therefrom. All the clauses to this effect were
hastily wiped out by the Council, and the bill now
leaves the pauperised and pauperising American
and English stereo, “biz ” exactly as it was. God
bless our home !
The flag to follow the trade. Merchants
are suggesting that the Union Jack be made a
trade-mark for all British manufactures, any
breach of it by makers of foreign nations, unless
repressed by their Governments, to be treated as a
casus belli. The idea is strongly supported in
England, and is to be brought before the Board of
Trade. Another instance of England’s instinctive
antipathy to freedom of trade—where other nations
are concerned.
The British Commission on Agriculture
recommends that the State shall provide cheap
loans for farmers. This is the State Land Bank
with the name only omitted. Slow, conservative
Britain has long since adopted the State Land
Bank principle in Ireland, and it now seems likely
to be extended to England also. And, meanwhile,
Democratic Australia is still wondering if the said
principle isn’t “reckless,” and “revolutionary,”
and “a dangerous innovation.”
Vale, honorary Minister in the Turner
Cabinet, is the Argus’s particular black beast just
now. The Thunderer-in-reduced-cireumstances be-
lieves Vale to be the party who put away its little
attempt to sound Peacock re the restoration of
Speight, and gave the man down the street a
chance to score against his reptile contemp. So
Vale is asked, with choice wit, if he was not
recently swinging by his tail at the Zoo., and
“ Timotheus ” goes to great trouble to demon-
strate that he is identical with the beast of
“Revelations.”
Out of South Australia’s new loan of
£8.39,000, just £480,000 goes in revenue-producing
works—the only works for which a country can
borrow with even a reasonable shadow of excuse.
The other £359,000 is for undertakings which will
yield no direct income out of which to pay the
interest on the loan. * When will some honest
Government lay down a hard-and-fast rule that
borrowing, except for works which yield direct
revenue, shall be wholly illegal ? Raising loans
for works which yield no cash return is not a
shade better than raising loans to make up de-
ficiencies in the revenue.
Treganowan submitted a proposal at last
meeting of Melb. Harbor Trust for a general in-
crease of employes’ wages. Of course, a shipping-
interests coterie could not be expected to do justice
to its men. Interesting slab :
Treganowan : “ The Trust pays 20 per cent, less than
the Government.”
Blyth : “The Government is dominated by politi-
ealism.”
Treg. : “ And the Trust is dominated by particular in-
terests.” (Oh! oh !) “I believe in hitting out
from the shoulder : innuendoes don’t go for
much.”
Motion lost by 7 to 6.
The Wimmera Star (Vic.) on village set-
tlements :
“ I Go on the land ! Go on the land ! ’ and the unem-
ployed are kicked out in the reactionary cry. The sleek,
fat city has recognised that its foundations are built ‘ on
the land,’ also that the mass of semi-starvation has
become a blot on the artificial beauty of the park and
gardens —scented, oiled, waxed, and powdered society
HOW IT FEELS TO BE RETRENCHED.
(Sketches found on the blotting-pad of a Victorian ex-civil servant.)
can’t bear the sight. ‘Off with it! Get it on the
land !’ Let anyone who desires correct information go
‘on the land,’ and look from house to house, and rub his
eminently respectable shoulders against the various forms
of poverty and mute, uncomplaining despair. Here is a
man, strong, upright, with a helpful wife and six children.
Two of these are useful; the other four make it their
business to sit round and grow dirty and roll over one
another and howl. All have to be fed (and hunger is
their chronic condition) from the produce of ten acres
sawn off the heavy end of a miserable sandhill. How
many glorious possibilities are shrouded therein Heaven
only knows. The village settler doesn’t, nor the hens
about the house, who have wandered up and down and
all round that block and discovered nothing; nor the
melancholy horse rubbing one of his best points up
against the trunk of a dismantled pine, then growing
tired of this relaxation, going to the creek to get a drink
since he can’t get a ‘ feed.’ The settler digs and digs,
cheerfully ruminating as to whether he isn’t really
digging his own grave.”
Prayer of the helpless nations . Save
me from the lion’s mouth ; and my iownessfrom
the horns of the unicorn 0 ulgate 21st Psalm).
Pull’s Bible sometimes bites Bull.
Mr. COURTICE POUNDS, Williamson and Musgrore’s new tenor.
Photo, by Falk.
Vic. A.N.A. gushes over the prospects of
Purves, Q.C., as a Federation candidate, and
members intend to hustle for his return. Purves
never shone in politics ; he ’.s very fine and large
only on his own legal midden. By the way, a big
effort is to be made to permit women the privilege
of membership in the A.N.A. This is a right and
proper object; it is time the A.N.A recognised its
own incongruity as a sort of he Dorcas society.
One of the great losses of the Yic.
(State) railways is on the suburban system.
There the railways, which are required to
pay decent wages and only work their em-
ployes eight or nine hours a day, have to com-
pete with the (privately-owned) trams, which don’t
pay decent wages and which work their employes
any hours they please. By the economy of miser-
ably low pay and long hours the trams can charge
low fares, and the railways have to follow suit or
lose the business, and as the result the M 1 bourne
suburban rates are lower in most cases tlian those
around London. If the railway and tram services
worked on equal terms, things would be better for
the former; as things are, it is the case of the
white man and the Jap. over again.
Courtice Pounds began singing as a solo-
singer in churches ; then he sang at banquets, fes-
tivities—“ anywhere that paid.’ His first stage-
appearance was in the chorus of the original
production of “ Patience.”
He has sung mostly at
London Savoy, but went
with “The Mikado ” to
Germany and Austria,
and spent three seasons in
America. He sang for
nine months with D’Oyley
Carte’s co. in New York
—the time D.C. netted
,£(>0,000 clear profit on
the tour. “ While a N.Y.
audience is the most criti-
cal, it is the best man-
nered ; it never expresses
disapprobation. New York
went mad on several Gil-
bert and Sullivan operas.”
Mr. Pounds created the
parts of Col. Fairfax, in
“ The Yeomen of the
Guard ” ; Marco, in “ The
Gondoliers ” ; Sanford, in
“The Vicar of Bray”;
Indru, in “The Nautch
Girl ” ; George Manners,
in “ Haddon Hall ” ; &c.,
&c. He has, therefore,
seen and heard much of
Gilbert and Sullivan be-
hind the scenes. “Mr.
Gilbert is a kind and
exceedingly nervous man;
tall and stout, with the
fn.ee and appearance of a
gentleman-farmer ; he suf-
fers from gout, and so con-
ducted the rehearsals of
‘Utopia’in a bath-chair.”
He always reads his
libretto first to the whole
company quickly, dis-
tinctly, almost without
inflexion, without attempt
at elocution. Subse-
quently he explains his
conception of each char-
actor to the actor imper-
sonating it. He was most
anxious about Point in
“ The Yeomen ; ” he kept
dinging, dinging it into
Grossmith; trying to get
that actor to realise
what the character is.
Grossmith, despairing,
nearly gave the part up.
“ Barrington’s memorable interpretation of Pooh
Bah was quite opposed to Gilbert’s intention, but
nathless it pleased no one more than Gilbert, who
told Barrington, ‘ You are right; lam mistaken.’
The idea of ‘ The Mikado ’ came to Gilbert
as he glanced one day at a Japanese
sword hanging in his smoking - room. Gilbert
would never overburden an actor with instructions ;
all he said to me about Marco was ‘ I want Marco
to be bright, light, quick.’
He wished me to make
Col. Fairfax lighter and
more devil-may-care than
I thought I should; he
allowed me to have my
own way, however, and
I put in a time of agony
before the first night in
consequence ; but, after
all, my version was a
success and pleased Mr.
Gilbert as well as anyone.
For Col. Fairfax’s song,
‘ Is life a boon ? ’ Gilbert
made Sullivan write the
music three times, and I
daresay Gilbert loves that
composition as well as
any. ‘ Utopia,’ with its
royal levee scene and
remarks pertinent to the
Prince of Wales, offended
the Court, and the Prince
came but once.”
“Brummagem Joe,”
recently : —“I have heard
it said that we have no
colonial policy, that we
have simply blundered
into all the best places
on the earth.” Blundered?
No—plundered.
If a man stares fixed-
ly at, say, a shilling or
a postage-stamp for one
minute, and then at a
photographic sensitive
plate for 20 minutes, the
plate will show on de-
velopment a picture of the
stamp or the shilling.
The Englishman clasps his two gods—his
Bible and his Bank-book.
Dear Bulletin,— “J.H.G.’s ” value as a
entio (in your “ Literary Notes ”) is heavily dis-
cpunted by the inaccuracy of his observation.
one can tell from the story itself,” he says,
re my lour Fools,” “ where it takes place.” If
•ii VI J I 'H'phe the aid of a pair of spectacles he
will find that the action is distinctly specified as
commencing with the Englishman’s perusal of the
mscript l on upon the monument in the “ Waterloo
i lain at Batavia. And since Batavia—situated,
r? i 1 u ! I ’, orne I °> hut in Java—is the capital of the
JJutch East Indies, while the monument in ques-
ii° ri AT S pommernorati ve of the supposed prowess of
the JNetherlanders at Waterloo, it can hardly be
denied that the Netherlands have something to
do with't.” As for the “ obscure name ” which
i-i , been unable to trace in any
atlas, he could hardly expect to find recorded the
aesignation of a Javanese village of about 500 in-
habitants. J.H.G.’s ” instance, therefore, has
been singularly unfortunate ; though, as to the
vagueness of which I have elsewhere intentionally
made use, both Becke and myself may safely be
trusted to know when the effect of a story is
assisted bv topographical incertitude, and when,
?“, the er nand, the specification even of lati-
tude and longitude is in accord with the literary
key-note struck to begin with.— Alex. Mont-
GOMERY.


Any amount of honest Australian wine can
be bought for, say, 18d. per gal., yet in Sydney
the other day a man was heavily fined for selling,
as “old Australian port,” a decoction “composed
of a colored residue, white spirit, and flavoring
essences, and containing only about 25 per cent, of
grape juice. It was a libel on Australian wine,
being “a manufactured article, very intoxicating
and unwholesome.”
The Federation Bill got through Vic. Par-
liament by the narrowest possible shave. The
Council insisted on inserting a scheme of voting
by post which would have destroyed the secrecy of
the ballot, regardless of the fact that it more than
once refused to hear of any such scheme in con-
nection with its own elections, and denounced it
as foolish and ridiculous. The Bill went back and
forward, the one House casting out the obnoxious
clause, and the other one monotonously putting it
in again. Finally, the Council issued its ultimatum
that the clause must go in, and the Assembly
issued its ultimatum that it must come out or the
Bill would be dropped ; and then the Upper House
suddenly collapsed like a clay image, and let its
fad go.
Q. politics begin to get interesting. Pre-
mier Nelson is tired of work and worry, and will
quit office—possibly Parliament —almost immedi-
ately after the elections. Tozer and Byrnes will
then be joint leaders of the Boodle wraith party.
If they can’t settle which is to be Premier, a weak
man; may be put up as figure-head. The party
will be broadened so as to catch, if pos-
sible, the Opposition dissentients, and an effort
will be made to bulldoze Drake. The public will
be deluded with the cry of a “ New Party,” pro-
fessing to be free from the damnable traditions of
Griffilwraith and Boodlewraith, advocating “ good
government” and “moderate reform,” and de-
nouncing the Labor party —which is expected to
continue to play into the Government hands —as a
set of cranky extremists. This is the programme.
FIRE.
Through the improper mixing of phosphorised
pollard laid for rabbits near Navarre (Kara Kara
Shire) nearly four miles of country was laid bare
yesterday by a bush-fire. Several baits picked up
in the paddock ignited when touched. It is not
yet known if any sheep are burned, as the fire is
only partially checked and the place is heavily
limbered.—Melb. Argus, 3rd Feb., 189 G
MINES REPORTED ON OR SUPERVISED
—BY—
WILLIAM NICHOLAS, F G S., Lon.,
Consulting Minins Engineer,
Late Lecturer on Mining in the U uversity of Melbourne ;
Leouirer on Geolo.-y as applied to Mining, Bendigo School
~f Mines; of the Mining and Geological Department of
tVt-iria, etc. Author of “The Golden Quartz Reefs of
Australia,” “ Coolgardie Goldfields,’’ etc. Address—
Coolgardie, Western Australia.
ilmr-
LOMBARDIA,
THE GREAT PILE SPECIFIC
HAS NO EQUAL AS A CURATIVE.
Before trying other so-called Remedies you
should ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a
Pot of Lombardia, and take no other. Only one
Trial is asked.
PRICE 2/6, all Chemists and Storekeepers.
F. McDONALD, Proprietor, 110 Pitt-st., Sydney.
There is still a little doing m the Sydney build*
ing trade. Houses are still erected at a profit to the pro*
moters ; but methods have changed. The landowner with
unprofitable allotments sells same to men of straw, “ with
assistance to build.” The builder, who is to have tlo-
thirds value in progress-payments, is asked for neither
ntfj f n ° r i SeCUrlt 'u Buil( * er i? ets material and labor on
credit as long as he can, pockets the little he is able to
draw and goes bung. Result: Owner gets a house com-
pleted, or nearly so, for half value.
“Another way” is for owner to fence in his
allotment, and let the contract for building at a (rood
figure to a hard-up friend. The friend, on the faith of
contract, which he shows to merchants, obtains all the
wL U f re r de .’' vered on the ground, and then de-
parts to Westralia with a few pounds in his pocket, the
owner quietly locking the gate and laughing at his con-
tractor s creditors. os
Both these methods, though economical, involve
vT, e , OUt ! ay ' ,atest Plan avoids any payment at all.
You buy two allotments, side by side—one in your own,
the other in a friend’s name. With your deeds you borrow
the money from bank or building society to build, changing
the pegs if they send a surveyor. Of course, you build on
your fnend s land. You get your house for nothing, and
the best part of the money advanced, at the cost of the
vacant allotment, which you resign, with tears of grief at
your mistake, to your creditors. The howl at the slack-
ness m the building trade is overdone. No one need be
out of work if he is “ up to date.”
* * * *
The land on which N. Y. Equitable Co’s Melb
office is erected represented the biggest cash considera-
tion ever passed through the local titles office. Land
plus building owes the co. nearly half-a-million sterling
and the community at large about a dozen lives. A lot of
people wonder why the finishing touches are not put to
the building, and active operations commenced from the
new base. The generally-accepted explanation is that as
the old office is sufficient for the volume of business done
since the ta-ra-boom-days, it pays better to keep two or
three men employed in imparting finishing touches than
to pay municipal rates on half-a-million. Municipal law
doesn’t tax buildings in course of erection.
* * * *
Mr. “Jack” Roberts, a Bendigo-reared man of
varied, experience, now presides over the Sydney D.T.’s
mining column. Mr. Roberts for a year or two edited
Melb. Standard, and was for years a member of N.S.W.
Hansard staff. He was long on the Age, and of late
represented Dr. Simon, of Coolgardie. It is suspected in
►Sydney that the articles on Coolgardie, now running in
the D.T., come from the pen of Mr. Roberts. The writer
e\ idently believes that the Westralian gold-boom is
founded so far chiefly on wind and lying.
* * * *
Specification of Patent No. 10990 of 1845, R.
W. Thompson, Middlesex. “. . . consists in elastic
bearing round the tires of wheels . . . rendering their
motion easier, and diminishing the noise whilst in motion.
I,prefer employing a hollow belt . . . and inflating it
with air, whereby the wheels will in every part of their
revolutions present a cushion of air to the ground or track
on which they run.” The invention was tested on a
brougham weighing about 12001 b. and proved a success,
although the tire was sin. wide. The above should about
cover the Dunlop patent, and, by rendering it valueless,
reduce the cost of cycles.—Scientific American.
* * * *
A “ tinned-dogged ” dyspeptic on W. A. “We
first camped at the 11-Mile from Coolgardie, where there
is some bogus mining carried on—never paid and never
will. Next day to the 25-Mile ; minings here ‘ bogus,’
working with English capital—not a real reef on the
place. . . . Siberia a very rich alluvial field. At
Siberia soak quartz is found on the surface daily, but noth-
ing beneath. . . . Menzies is a place where Wilson
and English capitalists are throwing away a lot of money.
There are also a number of claims here (bogus ones I call
them) which will never pay. . . . Niagara, where a
number of nuggets have been picked up on the surface,
but nothing more. This place will shortly be boomed by
a ring of English money. . . . Mount Margaret will
also be boomed shortly along with Menzies. My trip has
given me a great eye-opener. Coolgardie was never a
town and never will be one. It is something like China-
man’s Flat (Maryborough) about 20 years ago. There is
certainly plenty of work, but the money is doubtful. If
the company is floated, well and good, but if not—no
money.”
» » * •
H. G. Norton and Co., of Gladstone Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney, brokers for the Young Bushman
Mine, Goobang, near Parkes, state that the property
comprises eight acres ; that 800 oz., averaging £3 17s. I0.)d.
an oz., have already been taken from the mine ; that
seven shafts are now down, from four of which payable
stone is being raised ; and that the deepest working shaft
is down 180 ft. The mine is being floated with a capital
of £12,500, 50,000 shares at ss. each ; 20,000 shares at
ss. each with £5OO added cash to the vendors.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
doS°nriS m h r°h Sa y dan , dy Dr eamland in the pad-
tame’ newe t 0 tbe A uslraJlan Cup, and then noted his
soJ 1 * P Crformanc « ,n the race, will lose many more
predio h ‘ 3 T ee j equine delusion - Jim Soobie
K' c ™ that Dreamland would gallop to the fore and
wLs not® born " 0t ? l0 K ely pre , ssed The trainer’s opinion
Twav frL b ?n « 12* by : r P su,ts - Dreamland neither got
Th , ' r L e d " orfalled t 0 struggle on at the finish,
out anH nn h to Mentor ran just fairly well through-
80ine lS ,non h Or K 7*l® jangles, which laid him low
heart n, r m baCk ’ to ° k all the dash - rather than all the
neart, out of him, apparently.
merit of tl Wa e ii f ° r th r e r 7 Ust u alian Cu P shows the solid
mfle t W n n V: aHao®- L, \ der the whip for more than half-a-
-no„ ’no f 6 the dlst ance, less 12in. or so, in Dread-
Dreartn 8 tn n7 ( 3min - 59}4sec.), the best up to date. With
S- Sormbly/ 1,1 the Saddle hC must have wo "
i and Nordenfeldt needed a good welting
fn°r,7,? ke i them ?° their hardest, but neither of those
mous sluggards called for as much persuasion as
Wan ace requires. James Gough was weary of well
doing the chestnut when he came back to scale after the
trahan Cup. And very down in the mouth, too.
Gough thought, and said, that Wallace was bound to win
,:" dden hard. The jockey did his best to score a record
bad° ry ’ and had hard * UCk ’ n huishing half-a-head to the
Light- weigh ted Artist proved a real good thing
for the Hurdle Race on Australian Cup day. It was one
ret DOf
th,tfuU- o (.Thicket
(Y\ c K« Mn f\
a.i.-faott
/V/J.i.
Kd\^
lj, a grains
Gr^or'J
ot\ +Ke
J-ndaW
Cl 'ffiew-Ur kjafch
J£#Dy
"THE GRACEFUL GAME OF CRICKET."-SKETCHES AT THE TEST MATCH.
of the veteran J. Wilson’s own particular brand of “ cer-
tainties ” —bar accidents —and Ballarat backed it with all
the faith of old times. Scobie put £lOO on Artist.
Coil is a typical exponent of Australian two-
year-old “form.” Coil beats Maluma with a wonderful
rush at Caulfield, a fortnight before the Newmarket
Handicap. Maluma wins that event brilliantly, and an
hour later Coil runs away with the Sires Produce Stakes,
Kobold being “ nowhere.” Another three days pass,
and Coil, sweating profusely, is badly beaten out of
a place for the Ascot Vale Stakes. Then Maluma
repeats her Newmarket performance in the Bourke
Handicap. Maluma this time meets Pilatus on 71b.
worse terms than in the Newmarket, but she wins
easily again, whilst Pilatus again finishes third.
Coil, this time, meets Kobold on 131 b. worse terms than
before, which difference in the weights enables Kobold to
make a change of at least seven lengths in their relative
positions. The various running of Coil with Newhaven is
another story.
According to daily newspaper misreports the
public “ held their own ” on Australian Cup-day, owing to
the victory of Maluma (in the last race) and a couple of
first favorites. As a matter of fact, the public mostly
stood or fell by the result of the big event, and everybody
could see that they fell with a sickening thud. There
was no more life in the proceedings after Idolator had
squeezed home. Punters hadn’t even the disposition to
drown their regrets in drink.
* * * *
Idolator, as The Bulletin’s Melbourne corres-
pondent mentioned, is a Newminster horse, and the New-
minsters develope stamina as they advance in years. If
the six-year-old had “a possible” for the Newmarket he
was worth an investment for the Australian Cup, and
would, no doubt, have been backed by many people but
for the fact that Ballarat sports were putting their friends
on to Dreamland once more.
* * * *
The dead-heat for the Champion was not as fine
a race as the ditto for the C. B. Fisher Plate in Nov., on
the same ground. Then Wallace steadily gained upon
Auraria until their noses were level, after which the filly
held her own. The two strugglers ran together, neither
yielding an inch, for the last 100 yards. The Champion
race was lost, or half lost, by Wallace partly through a
swerve, but more particularly through Holmes’s mistake in
assuming that he held Quiver safe. Had he started to
nog the colt earlier he would have finished wall in front of
the mare, who was in better condition to make a grand
final effort. Wallace was not quite “wound up” last
weak, as will be presently proved at Randwick if he goes
on all right meanwhile.
Mr. James and his trainer Hill almost per-
suaded themselves that Auraria had a chance for the
Champion, inasmuch as they couldn’t say where she had
gone wrong. Hill hop ad that the Cup winner would be
running on when the others began to tire, and James said
tiiat although she was not as well as she had been, there
was nothing seriously the matter. The bookmakers,
taking their cue from the touts, held Auraria in con-
tempt. Enough for them that something had happened
to the mare, judging from her training gallops. She
might be lame in one or more of her legs, or very sore, or
suffering from muscular rheumatism, or liver complaint—
it was all the same to Ikey. The writer gave Auraria up
as a very bad job when he saw a layer of wadding placed
under her saddle, and observed a swelling on her back
Probably an indication of a slight sprain.
Wallace, after all, is only a great “plugger.”
The chestnut can’t come with a rush at the finish, like
Malua or many another horse of less solid merit. Take
his performances. He just beat Oscillator by a head for
the Derby, after a tough battle ; couldn’t get away from
Auraria in the C. B. Fisher Plate ; failed by half-a-head
to reach Idolator in the Australian Cup ; couldn’t shake
off Quiver at the end of the 3-mile Champion Race.
Perhaps, if the jockey were armed with a red-hot poker,
he might get a brilliant spurt out of Wallace.
Portsea must still be reckoned the champion of
champions on his day, although his time was jsec. slower
than this year’s race. In the first place, Portsea had
hotter weather to contend with ; also the little horse
carried the five-year-old weight of 9st. 51b., and won
quite easily.
The numerous dead-heats and six-inch victories
at Fleming ton Autumn meeting were satisfactory only
from a holiday-maker’s point of view. In each case of a
close finish the result could have been altered by a first-
class jockey.
O’Trigger, the handsome and still backward colt
that won the Maiden Stakes at Flemington, will be heard
of again. He is the son of a f .shionable-bred English
mare, Barley—a point worth noting. It is time that Aus-
tralian patriotism recognised the superiority of English
mares, both for racing and breeding purposes.
* * * *
Paris is handicapped at Bst. Gib. for the City
and Suburban Handicap (1 j miles), and Gollan's Norton
has been let into the Liverpool G. N. Steeple with list.,
or 211 b. less than top weight. They are both of them
given a splendid chance to take down the English horses,
and, if they don't, distinguish themselves, Australian
common sense will draw its own conclusions.
* * * *
Wallace seems to thrive on severe punishment.
After each of his heart-breaking tussles last week, the St.
Alban’s colt went back to his stable in a contented frame
of mind, and ate heartily, and slept the sleep of the
righteous.
• • * *
Consider the running of Warpaint, how it varied
at the V.R.C. meeting !
* * * *
Grandwing absolutely won the Steeplechase at
Flemington last Saturday in a walk. Grandwing was the
only competitor that didn’t fall, and although two of the
others were re-mounted and came after him, his long lead
enabled him to canter leisurely down the straight. The
canter dwindled into a trot, and just before reaching the
winning-post Edge pulled his mount up and walked in.
* * * »
“Twenty to one Auraria ” was laid for the Loch
Plate. In a weight-for-age race, four starters only, the
Oup ana Oaks winner was reckoned such a hopeless case
*ui ‘V° °ff ere, l twenties. And The Bulletin had
rasluy predicted that Mr. Janies was too much of a sports-
man to set up his idol to be shattered. This journal
withdraws its opinion of Mr. Janies.
* * » *
Bravo ” Jones, lately back in Melbourne, talks
of returning to England shortly. Everybody at this end
of the world is “ broke ” arid wants to nibble" at the fruits
of his lucky mining speculations—to “ borrow a bit,” in
fact—and under the circumstances he will be able to
breathe more freely in a colder clime, he savs. Billy
Jones’s faith in Australian racehorses remains firm. He
is looking out for two or three likely ones to take ’Ome
with him ; notwithstanding the tough fact that English-
hred animals over here have, thus far, cut much better
figures than Australian representatives over there.
» * * *
The Brasseys follow the Hopetoun lead in patron-
ising Melb. Polo Club. The annual races of that poor
little haw-haw institution were brought off the other day
under very damp and dirty conditions, but Government
Ouse didn’t shirk its promise to attend. Lord Brassey
and his partner in greatness sat and smiled politely, whilst
the suite took active and rather ignominious parts in the
proceedings. At least, Freeman Thomas and gussielike
Lord Nevil] shone to disadvantage. The other chappie,
Shaftesbury, having been just braced up by a voyage to
and from China, or somewhere, managed to win the Conso-
lation Race, and so the vice-regal partv left the ground
on fairly good terms with itself.
* * * *
“ Englishman ” writes from Charters Towers to
remind us that it was not John Watts, as stated in a recent
Bulletin pan, who rode Petrarch in the Two Thousand
Guineas of 1876. The unknown jockey who romped home
on that famous animal, to the great grief of Lord Dupplin,
the owner, and his Hebrew “ managers,” was little Luke.
The Bulletin’s error arose from a confusion of religious
thought, as it were. Luke is the name of an evangelist,
and Watts was a notorious author of evangelical hymns.
The names got mixed.
When Cabin Boy had his outrageous lead in the
Leirer a bookie yelled 100 to 1 against him. An innocent-
looking countryman snapped it up, and during every sub-
sequent race planted himself alongside Mo to see if he'd
bawl any more hundreds to one. But he didn’t.
* » » *
Wallace has been dubbed the unfortunate horse
of the Flemington carnival. Perhaps he was, but had he
won his races and something else run consistently second
the latter would have been just as unfortunate, only in a
less degree. The public doesn’t like to see a sterling
good colt lose. When its idol gets home every time it
yells, but never gives a thought to the second neddy.
In point of brilliancy, there’s little difference
between (Quiver and Hova. She beat him in Essendon
Stakes. He ran third and she fourth in the Cup. Then
she dead-heated in the Champion, Hova running third.
The final go in the Loch Plate saw Hova in front, and the
mare second. The only thing between the pair is that
whereas Quiver can stay for a week, Hova can only be
trusted to stay and win at a mile and three-quarters.
Early punters are now trying to spot a Carbine
youngster that will prove as good a three-year-old a 9
Wallace.
* * * *
Laura, who ran remarkably well in Aus. Cup,
meeting the best and sharing the hot place, should be
worth following at Randwick. Though she mayn’t prove
the equal of her dam, that good mare Cerise and Blue, a
few fair handicaps should fall to her lot.
» » * *
How Quiver lost last Melb. Cup, after running
third to Waterfall at Caulfield, will for ever remain a
racing mystery. Her recent running stamps her as the
best mare in the Australias, and the best of Trenton’s get.
Her new owner, on the look-out for “ something good
enough to win a Viceroy’s cup,” got her cheap at 1500
guineas.
* » » *
Doncaster and Sydney Cup adjustments are now
the current staple horsey topic. The large crowd of
niilers precludes a likely early-stage selection. One might
pick a dozen, and not strike a place. Disfigured, who
tops the list, is a very smart Malua mare, with a long,
ugly scar on the ribs, occasioned by accident. Hence the
name. Courallie has 271 b. more than he carried into
second behind Hopscotch in the Epsom mile, and his
paper prospects aren’t the rosiest. Patroness, Sadur,
Albicore, and Vanitas take the eye ; the two thirds of
Philatus at Flemington indicate a possible early win,
while Te Whiti, if the stable elect, should prove danger-
ous. In the postage-stamp division, reservation must be
made in favor of Laura, Gaulus, and Astronomer.
•
The queen of the Cup handicap is undoubtedly
Quiver, and she’s such a good mare that 9'9 won’t hamper
her to any appreciable extent. The w.f.a. events, how-
ever, will afford her a better opportunity of shining. The
shelved Harvester, if himself, would be quite equal to his
9st. Owner Cook has been out of luck’s track lately.
Wallace, treated to a spell, won’t start, and his mate,
Challenger, mayn't either. Placed within 21b. of Wallace,
he seems to be handicapped on good looks and a 2-year-
old reputation. Dreamland is another that hasn’t got a
pull in the weights. Chesterman, on the other hand, has
actually been given a stone less than his Australian Cup
inipost, and may race up to expectations. Acmena and
Fort are on likely marks. So is Taranaki. The best of
the light-weights is Laura, the dangerous outsider of the
crowd.
* » * *
Complaint is heard of the poor fields in classic
events. Yet they’re the only races in which Johnny
Armstrong doesn't get a mount, and, small as they are,
the public can’t always pick ’em.
* . * * *
The owner of Idolator, after standing the horse
£6OOO in the Newmarket, decided to give the game best.
But the devil came along with his alluring whisper, as
usual, and the chestnut won the Cup. Every turfite,
about to retire, wins right away, and is tempted to go on
again.
* * * *
The fates haven’t been propitious towards mares
in the Champion. Quiver is the first to show up since
Romola won 25 years ago. Three-year-old colts have in-
variably taken the palm. Wallace is the 20th since ’66.
* » » *
People who can’t stand chestnuts saw the finish-
ing argument in Australian Cup left to two, both of whom
had run second in the V.R.C. St. Leger in their respective
years - Idolator to Culloden, and Wallace to Cahin Boy.
* * « •
When First King won his first Champion in a
common canter in 5.26 people averred that he could have
made it 5.20. There’s a great difference in six seconds,
but when people get “ married ” to a horse they say lots
of things in their enthusiasm. Quiver and Wallace’s
5.23 j is a world’s record. The Yanks, have nothing to
touch it.
* * * *
Until Clem. Hill compiled 206 not out against
Turner, M‘Kibbin, Callaway, and Coningham, W. G.
Grace was the only cricketer who in a first-class match
had topped the second century before he was 19 years of
age ; from which it may reasonably be deduced that the
young South Australian is a prodigy. Murdoch, Giffen,
Moses, M’Donnell, Massie, Graham, and Gregory are the
only other Australians who have got into the two hundreds
in first-class cricket, and they were, when they achieved
that distinction, much older than Hill.
* • • *
Query—whether Iredale’s and Syd. Gregory’s
bran-new wives are also going ’Ome. “No man is good
for very much six months before, or six months after,
marriage.” It will be interesting to watch the benedict
careers of both whilst they are in England.
» * * *
Percy M'Donnell has played with Vic. against
N.S.W., with N.S.W. against Vic., with Queensland
against N.S.W., with Australia against England, and now
with Australia against Australia.
* * * *
Jones’s first-innings five wickets for 30 against
the test team augurs a good time for him on bad English
wickets, and many sickening thuds on English ribs.
* * * *
The plucky stand made by C. M‘Leod and Hill
last Saturday—they raised the score from 53 to 196
showed what the chosen bowlers were worth against
omitted batsmen.
* * * *
Eady has a lot to learn as a batsman ; he tears
himself in half almost in making his easy stroke.
(“ Sporting Notions ” continued on page 20.)


During the recent flood some anxiety was
felt in Rockhampton for a Chinaman who keeps a
garden out Gracemere way. Two men in a boat
went to his relief. They found the Chow sitting
on the cap of his hut-roof with numerous fowls
roosting in military array on either side of him,
and perched on his shoulder was a big cockatoo. In
his hand he held a large bunch of strings, and at the
end of each there was either a duck or goose swim-
ming gracefully to and fro. The whole roof was
covered with sacks, boxes, baskets and kerosene
tins packed with either fruit or vegetables. He
nearly lost his. mental balance because his rescuers
refused to take the produce—nearly a ton weight —
on board their light bark. The live-stock was
rescued—John allowed his feathered team to
stream behind while he held the reins.
The Bulletin doesn’t often print ser-
mons, but just for once in a way it submits this
hunk by Australia’s recent visitor, Talmage, for
public consideration. The subject is the downfall
of Belshazzar:—
Ah ; my friends, it was not any common banquet to
which these great people came. All parts of the earth
had sent their richest viands to that table. Brackets and
chandeliers flashed their light upon tankards of burnished
gold. Fruit, ripe and lustrous, in baskets of silver,
entwined with leaves, plucked from royal conservatories.
Vases, inlaid with emerald and ridged with exquisite
traceries, filled with nuts that were threshed from forests
of distant lands. Wine brought from the royal vats,
foaming in the decanters and bubbling in the chalices.
Tufts of cassia and frankincense wafting their sweetness
from wall and table. Gorgeous banners unfolding in the
breeze that came through the open window, bewitched
with the perfumes of hanging gardens. Foun-
tains rising up from enclosures of ivory, in jets
if crystal, to fall in clattering rain of dia-
monds and pearls. Statues of mighty men look-
in ;■ down from niches in the wall upon crowns and
shields brought from subdued empires. Idols of wonder-
lul work standing on pedestals of precious stones. Em-
broideries stooping about the windows and wrapping
pillars of cedar, and drifting on floor inlaid with ivory and
agate. Music, mingling the thrum of harps, and the
clash of cymbals, and the blast of trumpets in one wave
of transport that went rippling along the wall and breath-
ing among the garlands, and pouring down the corridors,
and thrilling the souls of a thousand banqueters. The
signal is given, and the lords and ladies, the mighty men
and women of the land, come around the table. Pour out
the wine. Let foam and bubble kiss the rim ! Hoist
e .ervone his cup and drink to the sentiment, “ O, King
Belshazzar, live for ever !” Bestarred head-band and car-
canet of royal beauty gleam to the uplifted chalices, as
again, and again, and again they are emptied. Away with
care from the palace ! Tear royal dignity to tatters !
Pour out more wine ! Give us more light, wilder music,
sweeter perfume ! Lord shouts to lord. Captain
ogles to captain. Goblets clash ; decanters rattle.
There come in the obscene song, and the drunken
hiccough, and the slavering lip, and the guffaw of
idiotic laughter, bursting from the lips of princes,
flushed, reeling, bloodshot; while mingling with it all I
hear, “Huzza! huzza! for great Belshazzar!” What is
that on the plastering of the wall ? Is it a spirit ? Is it a
phantom ? It is God! The music stops. The goblets.fall
irom the nerveless grasp. There is a thrill. There is a
start. There is a thousand-voiced shriek of horror. Let
Daniel be brought in to read that writing. He comes in.
He reads it : “ Weighed in the balance and found want-
ing.” Meanwhile the Medes, who for two years had been
jaying siege to that city, took advantage of that carousal
and came in. I hear the feet of the conquerors on the palace
stairs. Massacre rushes in with a thousand gleaming
knives. Death bursts upon the scene, and I shut the
door of that banqueting-hall, foe I do not want to look.
There is nothing there but torn banners and broken
wreaths, and the slush of upset tankards, and the blood of
murdered women, and the kicked and tumbled carcase of
a dead king.
Anyone who remembers Talmage can picture that
reverend whoopist as he delivered this eloquent
blood-shriek. His two long arms would be flying
m the air like drunken serpents, and his long hair
blowing in the Babylonian atmosphere, and his
long body would be writhing with excitement,
and he would pound furiously on the floor with his
big, nubbly feet to represent the tramping of
20,000 Medes, and cast himself desperately on the
reading-desk to represent them coming down on
the staggered monarch. Then he would finish his
remark about the dead, kicked king with a fear-
some yelp, and, in the dead silence that ensued,
lie would look down earnestly on the floor to see if
any of the mangled innards of Belshazzar were
sticking out from under the front seat. No other
lecturer who ever came to Australia could tell that
story like Talmage.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt.” — A gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral
waters. I recommended him to give your “Fruit
Salt ” a trial, which he did, and received great
benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your “Fruit Salt,”
and for the future shall never be without it in the
house. M. Beral, 14, Ruer de la Paix, Paris.
Sold by all chemists and stores.*
Archbishop Carr says St. Patrick’s Cathe-
dral, Melb., will be finished next year. This will
not include the central spire, 350 feet high, and the
two others, each 250 feet.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £366,358
KESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 30,0 JO
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
A Jewess sued a Jew in the N. Melb.
Court, the other day, for £1 17s. balance of an
account of £2 for “ watching the dead ” —said dead
being a deceased relative of the defendant. It
would seein that even a dead Hebrew wants a lot
of watching.
MR. DUANE, OF AUCKLAND.
We shall print the whole of Mr. Isaac Duane’s
letter, only regretting that it is not longer. He
might have mentioned that June, the month in
which he wrote, is the coldest month in the year
in his country, and January the hottest. He might
also have reminded us that New Zealand is almost
as large as Great Britain, with a much more
desirable climate. He might further have said
that it is a wholesome place to live in, as it con-
tains few physical sources of disease, and possesses
no insect so noxious as the English wasp. Yet on
reading his letter we shall find that those attractive
islands in the far Southern Sea are not free from
an enemy we are called upon to fight here in Eng-
land, as elsewhere throughout the world.
“ I have much pleasure in writing you,” says
Mr. Duane, “as to me it is a privilege as well as
a duty to describe an experience in which I am
confident you will be interested.
“ Ever since I was a boy I have not only suffered
from indigestion in its worst form, but I have been
a martyr to it. Such success in life as I have
achieved has been in the face of the constant
opposition set up by this miserable complaint.
All its symptoms are familiar to me as the smoke
of London is to a dweller in that rather grim old
city. The bad taste in the mouth, the fitful
appetite, the distress in the stomach after eating,
the pains in the chest and back, the dull headache,
the sense of weariness and fatigue, the depression
of spirits, the want of ambition to take hold of
any labor, the weakness resulting from lack of
sufficient nourishment, &c.- —all these were part
and parcel of my life from my youth to a time I
am going to speak of in a moment.
“ I can only account for it by assuming that I
must have inherited a tmdency to this disease.
At all events it cast a gloom over my whole his-
tory lip to the date of my recent happy deliverance.
The record of the sleepless, wretched nights I
passed would make almost a volume by itself.
Times beyond counting I have arisen from my
bed in the morning, glad the night was gone, and
yet in no frame of mind to welcome the day. To
the chronic dyspeptic rest does not bring strength
as it does to others.
“You will hardly need to be told that I made
every effort to obtain a cure. I tried medicine
after medicine —now something I thought of my-
self and then something advertised in the news-
papers. And as to doctors (against whom I desire
to say not a word), I tried one after another, and
faithfully used the prescriptions they gave me;
but nothing more than temporary relief came of it.
“ About four years ago a friend spoke to me of
the great reputation of Mother Seigel’s Syrup in
curing all ailments of the digestion, and urged me
to make a trial of it. I might as well say frankly
that I had little faith that it would do me any
good ; but I was in such pain that I was in a
mood to try anything that offered the remotest
chance of a cure. So I bought a bottle, and the
very first dose made me feel better. This was so
cheering and hopeful that I continued taking the
Syrup, and to my surprise I grew better and
better until I was cured. All the symptoms which
made my life a burden for so many years are now
gone, and lam a different man. If ever, from
any cause, I have a temporary recurrence of
indigestion, a few doses of Mother Seigel’s Syrup
produce immediate relief, and leave me in good
health. You have my full consent to publish this
letter. lam well known in Auckland, and always
glad to tell anyone by word of mouth what a
wonderful cure your remedy worked in my case.
(Signed) Isaac Duane, coachbuilder, Karangahape
Road, Auckland, New Zealand, June 25th, 1895.”
Our home readers will perceive that not in
England alone but in far distant quarters of the
globe this celebrated medicine is known, and is
successful where others do not avail. It is the
most commonplace of truths that its praises are
sounded wherever civilisation extends, and almost
in every written language the name of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup finds an acknowledged place.*
Business Announcements
JAMES ■■GARROLL,
Land and Income Tax Adjuster and, Sworn
Valuator
(Appointed by the Govt, under the Real Property Aet).
Land, Mining, Financia’ and Estate Age-cy,
19 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
IS MEDALS AWARDED IS
—TO —
S. E. JEAN'S,
Patentee and Manufacturer of Gas Fires, Gas Cooking
Stoves, Water Heaters for Baths,
Sanitary and Licensed Plumber, Ua*fitter, &c ,■
JUNCTION, ST. K11,1>.4.
Gas and Water Laid On. x Estimates Given.
Postal Address: St. Hilda ltd., Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
By STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
for Church, School and Parlor.
Pianos
By E. KRAUSS, GERHARD ADAM,
etc., etc.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS
By REYNOLDS & CO.
E. BESSON & CO.
Violins,
BOWS, STRINGS, and all kinds of
fittings.
Jk£C3r ? eons,
CONCERTINAS, MOUTH ORGANS,
BANJOS, GUITARS, MANDOLINES
and all kinds of Musical Instruments and
Fittings.
Wholesale Warehouse:
A. P. SYKES
(Late Philip P. Samuel & Co.),
227 Little Collms-st., Melbourne.
Price Lists on application.
STILLTtHE LEADING PIPE THROUGH-
OUT THE WORLD,
AGAINST WHICH NONE CAN COMPETE.
Wholesale Agents :
ULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT &
CO.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Educational.
The Dental College and Oral
Hospital of Victoria.
“Salisbury Place,” Nicholson Street, MELBOURNE.
To Parents and Guardians.
AT this College, where STUDENTS will not be beyond
the reach of home influence, Australians may obtain
that Thorough Dental Education which hitherto has
almost necessitated a course of study abroad.
Clinics.—Post-Graduate Course. Special classes for
Medical and Lady Students. Principal. E. LENTHALL
OLDFIELD (Member of “The Dental Board of Victoria”
Medical.
THE drum
'N POSITION
DEAFNESS
and Head Noises relieved by using
H'ilson’s Common, Sense Kar
Drums. New Scientific Invention,
having no wire or string attached.
Safe, simple, comfortable, invisible.
Write for Pamphlet. Agent—
JAS. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-st. , Melbourne.
Indigestion Cured.
A QUEENSLANDER SPEAKS OUT.
“ For fourteen years I suffered from Indigestion,
and have consulted three doctors and tried many
advertised so-called remedies until I happened to
get some of BOOTS’ INDIGESTION CURE,
ahd found it gave me relief after one bottle. I
have now taken six bottles, and feel better than
ever I did in my life, and would advise all that
suffer from Indigestion to get your cure and they
will reap the benefit. You may make what use
you like of this, for Boots’ Indigestion Cure is the
only medicine that has done me any good.”— Wm.
Lyall, Saddler, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Wholesale from Elliott Eros. Ltd.,
SYDNEY" & BRISBANE.
PULMONI
Registered. A positive
and speedy CURK ior
Consumption,
Catarrh, Colds,
and all
Price, 53. pe
bottle posted.
Pulmonary Affections.
a ALFRm.H J. FLPGG.
'V Box 642, G-.P.0.. SYDNFY.
Business Announcements.
lATATOBIUM,
400 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE GRANDEST SWIMMING BATHS IN
AUSTRALIA.
Sea
Water Swimming Baths and Hot Sea and
Fresh-Water Plunge Baths.
Oven on week days for yentlemen from Oa.m.
* to i) p.m., and on Sundays till A oon.
PLUNGE BATHS and a Small Swimming
Bath for LADIES DAILY.
Swimming Taught.
tew A Fresh Supply of Sea-water Daily.
burns & bright,
148 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY
SPECIAL
Wood Burning Stove.
WRITE FOR PA RTK TEARS.
The Australis.”
mWpu
S;
Burns 20in. wood.
G. H. Smith & Son,
302 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
FOR—
A US THALIA.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
If so, sell all your FATS through us. No double com-
missions or disputes. W 'kill and export. All charges,
ljd. Sales of Country-killed Meat Daily. Drop us a line
M'MASTER CO.,
Government M at Markets, DARLING HARBOR.
ARE YOU
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
5?
BUTTER -SCUTGH
ITHE CELEdRATED CH.LDREN S SWEET)
£<;>u(tc,/<c •i
Lnncrt. ,JgH|
St. .To]m’s Works, W.C., LONDON.
66
A 3 Black as tlie Devil/’
Mark Foy’s Hosiery:
Children\s Hose.
“OUR BOYS ” 1-1 Ribbed Cashmere, 10-fold knees
Sizes : 234 5
Prices : 7d. Bd. 9d. lOd.
“RELIABLE” Fancy-ribbed Cashmere (for girls),
size and price as “Our Boys.”
“FLORRTE ” Plain Cashmere Hose, full fashioned-
Sizes : 2 3 4 o
Prices : Bd. 91-d. lid. Is. Old. 1
“ BOYNIE SPEC,” 10-fold knees, 6-fold ankles—
Sizes : 1 2 3 4 5
Prices : 9|d. lOd. ll|d. Is. Id. Is. 2£d.
This is perhaps the Most Popular Hose for Children,
almost indestructible.
6
lid.
same
6
s. 2 l
6
s. 4d.
being
Ladies 9 Hose.
“ LA BELLE ” Fancy-ribbed Cashmere Hose, Is. O^d.
1-1 Ribbed Cashmere Hose, 10|d.
“ TRIESTE” Plain Cashmere Hose, Is. 3d.
“ HONOR BRIGHT Full-fashioned Cashmere Hose,
1 lid.
This is remarkable value. Search Sydney, and you could
not get the “ Honor Bright ” for less than Is. 3d.
A SCORE OF OTHER POPULAR MAKES.
They have a hiy grip of the Hosiery question at MAIiK FOY’S.


At Southland (M.L.) agricultural show the
other day was shown a pen of five sheep averaging
almost exactly 1481 b. each. At auction they
brought 295. each, the record Maoriland price for
s.iorn wethers. They were from common cross-
bred ewes by Shropshire rams.
A New York Stock Exchange story. Young
George Gould, son of the late Jay G., took a holi-
day from business lately, and came back to find
sundry of his investments exploded. “My stocks
have gone to hell,” he millionairily remarked to a
friend. “Never mind,” said the friend, “your
father will be able to do something with them.”
Dear Bulletin, Re. camel-reins. On this
field (Kalgoorlie), where probably 3000 camels ar-
employed, riding camels are invariably “doublee
l>3gged ” and double-reined. The near-side rein
passes under the jaw to the off-side neck and the
off-side rein vice versa. When the camel is
“ single-pegged ” one rein passes under the jaw to
the opposite side of neck. The usual rein is a
goat-hair cord about as large as an ordinary
clothes-line, attached to the peg by a light string.
Pack-camels are connected by a single cord from
nose of one to tail of next, the attachment
between cord and peg being of pack-thread, which
breaks with any undue strain and prevents the
peg tearing the nostril.— Been There 2.
In these days of keen commercial competi-
tion, when many “ mushroom ” firms try to estab-
lish a reputation on mere advertising puff, it is a
pleasure to recognise and support a firm who have
built up a name on their own genuine merits.
Messrs. Atcherley and Dawson, of 257 George-st,
Sydney (having also large places of business in
Melbourne and Brisbane), are essentially a firm
of this character, and their spacious premises,
devoted entirely to tea and coffee, denote the ex-
tent to which their merits have been recognised.
From the first this firm have made a speciality of
the tea-trade, being convinced that it is a business
of itself, requiring concentrated and undivided
attention. Both partners, having being engaged
in the tea-trade for many years, have large ex-
perience in the requirements of the public, and,
being extensive buyers of all kinds of Indian,
China, and Ceylon Teas, large stocks of which are
always on hand, they give special attention to the
selection, classification and blending of these teas.
At their offices they have provided accommodation
for visitors, and invite the public to call and have
a cup of choice, freshly-made tea, and so try the
teas before purchasing—an opportunity that the
public is cordially recommended to take advantage
of.*
H.P.GREGORY‘CO,
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
GENTBRA.L
Machinery Merchants.
Sole Agents for the
BLAKE
Direct-Acting' Steam Pumps
(SINGLE and DUPLEX).
These Pumps are now so well-known all over
Australia that they are generally recognised as the
MOST RELIABLE STEAM PUMPS IN
THIS MARKET.
PUMPS
—FOR
All kinds of Pumping Work
In STOCK, suitable for
Mining, Irrigation, Marine Work*
IFaterworks,
Roiler-feeding, Creameries, etc.
Send for our Catalogues and Circulars.
Government Notices.
“ Land and Income Tax Assessment
Act of 18!)A.”
NOTICE is hereby given, under section 30 of
the above Act, that Jiet urns of JLaml
and Income for the purposes of the assessment
of Land and Income Tax are required to be fur-
nished to the Commissioners of Taxation, at their
Office, on or before the liTtn day of 3larcli,
1806 ; and all persons who are owners of
land, or in receipt of income, and all persons
liable under the provisions of the Act in
any representative capacity to furnish re-
turns for the purposes, aforesaid, are hereby
informed that the prescribed forms of returns, ex-
cept those for Companies, are now available, and
may be obtained on application at any Post
Office, Police Office, Custom House, Itail
way Station, and the Office of any Clerk oi
Petty Sessions in New South Wales, Stamp
Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at
the taxation Office. Custom House, Sydney.
Forms for Companies can be obtained at the
Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at
the Taxation Office, Custom House, Sydney.
All owners of land are required to furnish
Returns of the whole of the lauds owned by
them, notwithstanding that the value of such
lands, or any portion thereof, is below the ex-
empted amount of =£24o.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or
profession on their own account are required to
furnish Income Returns irrespective of the amount
of their income ; but no Return of Income is
required from any person in receipt of
Salary or w ages only, if the gross annual
amount of such salary or wages does not exceed
.£2OO.
Public attention is called to the fact that a
penalty of Twenty Pounds is imposed on any
person neglecting to furnish the return required of
iiim within the time above mentioned, and that
persons failing to furnish such return are not
relieved from liability to the penalty by reason
only that they may have received no notice to fur-
nish the return, -or that the prescribed form may
not have been delivered to them.
JAMES POWELLA .
R. N. JOHNSON, [
L. S. SPILLER, J
Commissioners
of Taxation.
Land and Income Tax Office,
Custom House, Sydney,
20th February, 1896.
X. B.—Particular attention is called to the observa-
tions and directions on the Forms of Return.
781
A Melbourne publican is the inventor of a
wheel for vehicles that needs neither bolts or
screws. The wheel is sold in pieces, and is put
together by the buyer in a couple of minutes. If
any part breaks he simply buys its duplicate. A
syndicate has the affair in hand, and is patenting
it all over the world. There’s a lot of money in
it if it approaches what the inventor claims for it
in cheapness and utility.
Le Courrier Australien on poet-laureate
Alfred Austin:—
He is the poet of the Court in the full sense of the term.
Twenty-four hours afterthe death of the Duke of Clarence,
he published in the Standard a funeral elegy, in which
he resigned the Princess May to perpetual widowhood ;
twenty-four hours after the announcement of her betrothal
to the Duke of York, he celebrated the approaching
marriage in the same paper by a rhvmed leading article
no less touching than the elegy.
From S.M. Herald :
1 ( \XPERIF,NOED young lady will adopt Rational
Reform Dress for business advertising purposes,
in or out-door, excellent references ; salary, i.l weekly.
Eve, to-day, would be an artist’s model for “one
pound weekly,”
Mr. James Ashton, the brainy member
for Hay, in N.S.W. Assembly, is in quest of
the blood of a bard named “ >T. H. Ashton,” who
has been writing an in-memoriam dirge in the
local paper, which dirge has been attributed by
the local yokels to the M.P. First verse :
In the first month on the fifth day
Of eighteen ninety-six the year,
Three happy brothers took their way
To the river so cool and clear.
One is about fifteen years old,
The next was about seventeen,
The third near twenty, I was told—
And finer youths could not be seen.
MIND YOU GET
WOLFE’S
THE ONLY REAL
SCHNAPPS
The Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria Ltd.
INCORPORATED 1870.
Hon. G. THORNTON, M.L.C.
(Chairman.)
Dr. H. G. A. WRIGHT.
GEORGE MUNRO, Esq., ,T.P.
Hon. F. B. SUTTOR.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS and ANNUITIES.
STRICTLY MUTUAL. ALL PROFITS DIVIDED AMONGST THE MEMBERS.
PREMIUMS UNUSUALLY LOW. AGE TAKEN AT NEAREST BIRTHDAY.
SURRENDER VALLE applied to keep Policies in force.
Conditions Liberal. Security Undoubted.
J. M. MT'RAE, J.P., Resident Secretary.
i )r. Keith’s
Baking Powder
Is the Real Thing. TRY IT.
S - AND HAVE SOME GENUINE BAKING POWDER FOR A CHANGE.
Gillespies flaked “ Grainea”
s the Most Perfect POTIRTDG " POOD ever Invented.
*cy<
UIJM
IJfeeja
Hots*
\ h m
siiiii
the
Angelus Symphony.
The Finest Cabinet Organs ever made.
THE MAGNIFICENT TONES ARE THOSE
OF GOOD PIPE ORGANS.
Every Set of Reeds is available by Keyboard.
They are, in addition, practically self-playing, as the
whole of the stops (22), the swells and the bekows can
be operated by persons who have no knowledge of
music, and the simplest or the most intricate clas;ical
music produced at will with proper expressun and
time.
CATALOGUES FREE.
QTOTT & HOARE,
SOLE IMPORTERS,
426 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
49 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Atclierley & Dawson
By Special Appointment
to their Excellencies,
Viscount HAMPDEN.
Sir R. W. DUFF.
The Earl of JERSEY.
Lord CARRINGTON,
and
Lord HOPETOUN.
Choice “ GLOBE ” TEAS.
Awarded I'IKST I’ICl/E and Special SIEVED MEDAL
at the METROPOLITAN SHOW, 1595. These Teas
also gained the same distinction in Queensland.
These unrivalled TEAS are supplied to Consumers Direct at Lowest Rates. Samples Gratis
Delivered FREE at any Town in the Colony.
ALL GRADES AND VARIETIES OF TEA KEPT IN STOCK.
257 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY also at MELBOURNE & BRISBANE.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
04 PITT STREET, and CORNER YORK and
DRUITT STREETS.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Z aland Government .. .. 2,000,000
Pr< ference Shares subscribed for by N-w
Z'aland Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
The Bank has Agents in a’l the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities foi dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Let’ers of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £0.000,000
Paid-up . .. £3.055,281 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Eso., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M. L. A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hen N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoort, K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
Ol D BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Managers: John M'Cuteheon, J.P., and John Bartho-
lomew, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melt came.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
I.on <1 on Office: 1 Hish op so ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhalt Street, E.C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Blair. Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Broken Hill, Haymarket, Gosford (with agency
at Wyong), Newcastle; with Branches throughout
: Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and in
Brisbane.
The national bank of austra
LASIA Ltd.
In orporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,557,392 3 0
Preferei ce Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 192,607 17 0
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 760,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: Chairman, Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Vice-Chairman, A. S. King, Esq. John Grice, Esc.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.; Auditors: W. H. Tuckett, Esq.;
Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey Smith.
South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches throughout
South Australia. Local Directors: Caleb Peacock, Esq.,
J.P.; John Bagot, Esq., J.P. Manager: J. G. Addison.
New South Wales ;Sydxey), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M’Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Way]-n, Esq., M.D. ; The Hnn. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. M mager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-stnet Within, E.C. Manager:
W. W. Oswald.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Coni pan y, Lim i ted.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits .. £88,477 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es i., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Ron. -T. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
Trusteeships and Liquidation of A.signed and
Insolvent undertaken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FRKDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ENDOWMENTS,
ANNUITIES.
Others in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales:
Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman.
Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £1,750,000.
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS since commencement of the
Society exceeds
Twenty-one Millions sterling (£21,000,000),
Being an average of a MILLION for each year of its
T. JAQUES MARTIN, General Manager.
Money to Lend.
FI itTHIIR < KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
Only Address :
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets>
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every ,£1 to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS,
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—TIIE-
Colonial Mutual Five
INSURANCE CO., Ltd.
Fire, Accident, and Employers’ Liability Insurance
at Lowest Rates.
Offices: SYDNEY, 105 Pitt, Street.
71 K William Street.
BRISBANE, <V . k S. red.
Melbourne, 6o Market street.


"fHE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
Established 1813.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
STATEMENT FOR 1895.
(Just received by Special Cable.)
Income ... ... ... ... £9,975,000
Surplus .... ... ... ... 5,500,000
Assets ... ... ... ... 45,400,000
Insurance in Force ... ... 184,000,c00
New Business actually Paid (discard-
ing incomplete) ... ... 30,000,000
Net Gain in Insurance in Force ... 12,.,00,0u0
INCREASE OF ASSETS OVER PREVIOUS YEAR,
£3,400,000.
AUSTRALASIAN HEAD OFFICE:
COMPANY’S BUILDING,
MARTIN PLACE and PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Piles Cured.
Free samples, pamphlets of the new Cannalin
remedies, the latest and most successful treat-
ment, forwarded to any part of the colonies on
application to the depot for Australasia, 257
George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
He was Sure of It.
A little five year-old lad recently said to his
father, “ Tommy Brown is going to have a new
bicycle.” “Ah! my boy,” replied the father,.
“ but Tommy’s father surely qannot afford such an
expense. What makes you think so ? ” “Oh I
but I’m sure he is going to have it, because his
brother said so, and he knows.” Happy boy.
The father could say no more. He did not like to
teach his boy his first lesson of unbelief. He did
not like to tell him that people in this world some-
times make exaggerated or false statements.
That in deciding upon all questions one must cul-
tivate that penetration which enables one to
discern the wheat from the chaff. So he smiled
and said nothing. But the time will come for the
lad, as it already has to us, when he must sift and
decide for himself the good from the bad ; the
truth from the untruth. We soon learn that in
conversation things are oftentimes hastily and!
thoughtlessly said that in a moment are regretted,
or that would not have been said in a more quiet
and thoughtful mood. The only statements that
the financial world —in fact the general public—rely
upon, are those written and attested in a manner
which can be verified and brought home to the
writer, and this is why they carry conviction to
every reader. Mr. «T. N. Hoffmann, Barcaldine,
Queensland; made the following written statement,
which he knows to be accurate and which can be
easily verified. It will interest every reader, and
this is (jur reason for publishing it. He says:
“ During my service in India in the army I con-
tracted a cold which brought on kidney disease,
and having been unsuccessfully treated for it in
the Calcutta Hospital, I came over to Australia,
thinking change of climate might suit me, but in
Queensland my old trouble came on again. A
friend induced me to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and
after using a couple of bottles I found a great im-
provement in my health, and the use of eight
bottles completed my cure. This was four years
ago, and I have had no return of my complaint.”*
GENUINE
CAWNPORE KHAKI
RIDING TROUSERS.
Post free to any Parcel Post Office in Queensland or New
South Wales on receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps value 9/6
This is a perfect material for Station and Bush Wear
and is absolutely unshrinkable. JUMPERS of same
material, post free, 11 6. State height, chest, waist seat
and inside leg measures. PIKE BROS,, Brisbane ’
It is not generally known that in N.S.W.
assault cases one-half the fine when paid goes to
the individual assaulted. Which may account for
many alleged assaults that are emphatically
denied. At Goulburn recently a light-weight
baker was fined .£l4l 10s., and had 537 loaves con-
fiscated ; half the fine goes to the prosecuting
policeman.
SIR WILLIAM CLARKE’S EXPERIMENT.
On Sir William Clarke’s Red Rock Estate,
Sunbury, Victoria, an experiment of using phos-
phorised pollard, for the destruction of rabbits,
has had a rather disastrous result, as 25 sheep who
had partaken of it died. Mr. Ayers, the manager,
has buried, as far as possible, the baits that were
laid, and desires that his experience be published
as a warning to other stock-owners.*
IVI A DAME PALMA
(SCIENTIFIC PALMIST),
18 Sydney Arcade, King Street, Sydnev.
Write or Call for Particulars.
Information can be supplied, from an Impression or
Photograph of the Hand.
Numerous Testimonials from Celebrities and Others.
T
t
171 OR the person who is not a. millionaire, there are
. ONLY TWO COKI'EE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TIIK I'KKSKK Vl',” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
“Kills’ Hins-strcrt Coffee Psilaee,*’ situated 6C
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GKO. H. KM.IS.
CHARLES WESTBROOK.
116 Pitt Strekt, SYDNEY (opposite G.P.0.).
The Original Cu,sh Fielder.
II
C mmissions Exeented on AT.L EVENTS throughout
the World.
STARTING PRICE 20 io 1 Limit on all Horse races.
Telegiaphic Code —“ Westbrook, Sydney.” Teh phone,
No. 1642.
Reaowued Physicians, anuevon tne public are
so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S
That the afflicted need not hesitate to use it
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young men. Grimault’s
Liquid JVlatico and Capsules don’t cause
stricture.
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
legal.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND.
Otago and Southland District.
Under the Divorce and Matrimonial Causes Act
1867 and the Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Act 1867 Amendment Act 1881.
ICTORIA by the Grace of God of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland Queen De-
fender of the Faith.
rpo JOHN ROBERTSON whose prese
a whereabouts is unknown but formerly
Campbell town (The Bluff) in this District.
Whereas MARTHA ROBERTSON of Cam
pell town (The Bluff) aforesaid claiming to ha
been lawfully married to you has filed her petit!
against you the said JOHN ROBERTSON pra
mg for a dissolution of such marriage wherein s
alleges that you have been guilty of bigamy wi
*‘7' v > th °ne HARRIETT ELIZABET
1 at Sydney in the Colony of N<
bout h VV ales and of adultery coupled with cruel
towards the said Martha Robertson and of adi
tery coupled with desertion of the said Mart
Robertson without reasonable cause for t\
years and upwards. Now this is to coi
mand you that within six weeks after the nu
lication of this citation in The Bulletin
newspaper published in Sydney aforesaid i
elusive of the day of publication you do appe
m our said Court then and there to make ansxv
to the said petition filed in our said Court Ai
take notice that m default of your so doing t
said Court wil proceed to hear the said charge
charges proved in due course of law and to pi
nounce sentence thereon your absence notwit
standing And take further notice that for the pi
pose aforesaid you are to attend in person or 1
your solicitor at the Registrar’s office at Inv,
cargill and there to enter an appearance in a bo.
provided for that purpose without which you w
not be allowed to address the Court either
C ° UnSelatanystage of th eprocee
ing.s m the cause. 1
IsDatod at Invercargill the 28th day of Februai
(Signed) . F. G. MORGAN,
Arthur Chillis Henderson, Registrar ( RS -)-
Solicitor for the said Martha Robertson,
liitsk Street, Invercargill,
After all, Darling and Hill are the only two
Australian reliable left-handers. Moses was a batsman ;
he is a wine and spirit merchant. Bruce, who was a
failure on the whole each English trip, will stick to his
law-business now and forego cricket fame. Coninghain
Can tbe classed as a batsman with Darling and Hill; he
hasn’t the performances.
The wicket on the first day quite deceived the
Test team. On examination, it appeared quite hard-a
bat beaten on it made no impression, and the spikes
would hardly enter it. Yet it proved a nasty wicket till
three o’clock ; and the Test team's first innings of 117
runs was, perhaps, as much as the Australian Eleven
would have made on it.
The ejection, at the last moment, of Johns and
Harry from the-Australian Eleven, in favor of Kelly, Turner
and iii.l, places the selection committee in a very invidious
position. The committee has had ample opportunities to
judge the respective merits of the players concerned.
Johns and Kelly have been keeping wickets for years;
Turner’s brilliant past performances and his 32 years argue
incomparably more in his favor than any present feat
could do; Harry is one of the oldest and best-known
players; Hill’s successes as a 17-year-old boy against
Stoddart’s team were proof-positive of his remarkable
powers. Yet, however late, the right thing has been done.
The three men put in will be more valuable than Johns
and Harry twice over.
* • * *
M'Kibbin, whose name was freely mentioned as
one of the doomed, bowled himself right into the Eleven
this match. First innings, 4 for 60; second innings, 6
for 104.
**. * *
Where would the Aus. Eleven have been in
the first innings but for the N.S.W. representatives ?
Gregory, Iredale and Donnan compiled respectively 40,
40, and 88—made 168 out of 218 scored by the side off
the bat.
* » * *
What a bowling team it is now ! Jones, Eady,
Turner, M’Kibbin, Trumble, Giffen, H. Trott, Donnan
(change), Iredale (change). Unless Eady were put out
for A. E. Trott it would be impossible to better the team.
In making the team so strong in bowling, the batting is
necessarily weakened.
* * * *
The close of the match, Australian eleven v.
test team, gave Johns, the rejected wicket-keeper, an
opportunity to heap coals of fire upon his critics’ heads.
He kept up his end manfully on a wicket which “ did ”
considerably, and by making 15 he materially helped Syd.
Gregory in knocking up the required score. What luck
was wanted was given by C. M'Leod, who badly missed
Gregory. Syd. made 75 (not out), and received a great
ovation.
Worrall, standing close in, caught M'Kibbin
sensationally ; if Worrall had missed the ball it might
have gone through him.
The result was a victory for the Australian
Eleven by two wickets and three runs. Eleven’s scores—
-Ist innings, 230; 2nd (for eight wickets), 245. Test Team
—lst innings, 117 ; 2nd, 355. And Giuen was stiff with
sciatica.
* * * *
The large sundries’ score set against Johns
killed his Hiriglish goose. He can’t take fast bowling.
But he was treated most cruelly by the Sydney crowd,
who barracked much of the nerve out of him.
t * » *
Geo. Giffen does not believe in dropping a
young player because he makes a few failures. When
Giffen joined the Norwood club he registered six “ ducks ”
in succession, but he scored heavily always after that, and
went to England when only 19 years old.
* • » *
Australians have erroneous ideas of what con-
stitutes “ form ” in touring cricket-teams. It seems to
be thought that if the majority of the team were to
eschew intoxicants they would play better cricket. An
old player lately told this writer that some of the best
performances of past Elevens have been made “ on top of
grog.” He says that one burly player in particular made
one of his big scores against England “ when recovering
from ‘ a gin-and-soda crawl ’in London—he went on the
field wearing a felt hat, because there was not a cap that
would fit his head.” Then another player could only off-
drive and back-cut to perfection when he had gone
through a preliminary brandy-and-soda razzle. The great
point to be considered in selecting an Australian Eleven
player is—“ Can he drink a bottle of whisky and be still
rational ? ” It is useless picking amateur drinkers who
are liable to get drunk on a mere dozen of beer.
• » * «
The resuscitated Lohmann, judging from his
recent doings at the Cape, is going to be a thorn in the
side of the Australian Eleven, as of yore. His perform-
ances for Surrey last season were almost equal to the best
he did in the days before his lungs went wrong.
» » * •
Martin, Harris and Porta can claim on facts
to notch one above Australian cyclers. They are all
on scr. for the N.S.W. League March meeting-in the
Half-mile Federal Stake, tile Mile-and-a-half first-class
handicap, and the (2-mile) Australian Cup. Australian
riders, with the exception of Payne and Megson in the
Half-mile, get a start of the three foreigners in every race.
Parsons gets 15yds. in the Two-miles right on top of his
Australian record for that distance. Has the League’s
handicapper no sportsmanlike instinct?
♦ * * *
Cyclists are as careful of their ages as girls.
One prominent wheelman tells an interviewer he has
“ just turned 21,” though he has been riding for six or
seven years, and was certainly no boy when he began.
Another, almost as well-known, is now alleged to be 20—
which he was five seasons back. A third, and perhaps
the best of them, is also 20 according to his account,
though in ’B9 he owned to 19 in a legal document. Alto-
gether, the cyclist is an old-looking man for his age.
Where is there another 25-year-old with Martin’s phiz, 23-
year-old with Porta’s, 21-year-old with Don Walker’s, or
20-year-old with Parsons’s?
* * * •
During 1895 the value of the bicycles imported
to Australia was £141,720—as against £81,691 the previous
year. The increase is fairly equal over all the provinces,
save Westralia, whose ingoing leaped from £lBl5 to
£13,443. Vic. conies first with £58,200 as against £37,278
in ’94, then follow M.L., N.S.W., S.A., W.A., Queens-
land and Tas. in the order named. But Sydney will never
be the home of the cyclist; the hills and the narrow,
congested streets preclude such a possibility. The true
pedaller can only be made on the long flat stretches
around Melb. and Adelaide.
* * * *
A Melb. cycle factory which turned out its first
Jigger five months ago, now employs 30 operators and has
an output of 20 machines a week. A rival concern, which
had 14 races won on its product during the past season,
proposes to launch out in still larger style, and is import-
ing plant and men from Coventry, Eng., wherewith to
make every part of a bicycle from rim to handle.
♦ * * *
Parsons’s Adelaide mile in 1.58 3-5 is ssec.
slower than the best English—done on Catford track by
T. Gibbons-Brooks. Zim’s record mile was 1.57, which
goes to prove that a racer is not necessarily a record-
breaker : vide Banjo’s “ Our New Horse.”
* * * *
Walford, Zimmerman’s manager, has reached
America with Mrs. Zim. on the brain. Bays Walford to
the American Whrelm n -“The doctors recommended
that Zimmerman should oe separated from his wife, and
spend at least three weeks in the Blue Mountains, but
unfortunately he and his wife went up together.” “ Zim-
merman was advised by his physician to settle at one of
the cycle tracks attended solely by his trainer, but a
young man on his honeymoon is rather difficult to per-
suade, and this is the real reason of his failure.” “Mrs.
Zimmerman retained the society of her husband to his
great disadvantage.” And so on.
* » * *
Given fine weather, Sydney League of Wheel-
men hopes to clear £BOO or j. 900 on the forthcoming car-
nival. The S. Aus. Cyclists’ Association cleared about
£2OO on its last meeting.
* * » »
Sydney Ladies’ Bicycle Club has approved of
fawn jacket and skirt as costume. The decision to keep it
on is a wise one. A woman without a skirt looks as bare
as a Highlander without a kilt. Anyone sweet on
bloomers should take a back view of the trousered women
in “MissDecima.”
* * * *
Englishman Harris has been riding out of form
the past week, and another dazzler has been making him-
self too much of a social figure to do anything startling.
The girl the cyclist leaves behind him comes per
next train or boat. How is it the girls like the cyclists
so? Is it because the cyclist in his bloomers affects the
fair sex in the same way as the ballet-dancer upsets the
bald-head? It isn't the cyclist’s looks that make him
“ taking.” For handsome men seem to avoid the wheel
just as pretty women do.
* * * *
Reasons why some crack cyclists show in-and-
out form. No. 1, woman ; No. 2, woman ; No. 3, woman :
other reasons—other women.
* * * *
Martin and Harris will pedal together in the
tandem race! Martin strips perfectly just now; his
strong muscles and iron jaw should be conspicuous this
meeting.
* * * *
For once in a way, writes The Bulletin’s Lon-
don correspondent, Jem Mace was right in re a glove-
fight ; Dan Creedon knocked Smith out under smin.
Mace had been coaching Dan in Smith’s little ways and
manner of fighting, especially as to his celebrated body-
punch with the lett;and, proving himself an expert pupil,
Dan went into the ring confident and determined to keep
the heavy-weight going from the start. Shortly after the
first round began Smith got his adversary’s head in
chancery, and amidst cries of “ let go! ” and “ foul, foul! ”
started punching with his left. The referee ordered him
to unclinch, and both men got to work again, but nothing
resulted save a bloody nose for Smith, who went to his
corner much blown. In the second round Creedon, after
escaping one of the quondam champion’s “ particulars,”
landed a smart one on the face followed by one of the
most tremendous blows ever delivered in a ring, fairly on
the liver, which brought poor Smith down as if felled by
a sledge-hammer, and all was over. Smith seemed beefy,
and must have been weak, after pulling himself down
from 19st. to under 13 ! But Creedon wen at all points.
He was as clever as a monkey with his head, and the way
he avoided Smith’s straight blow in the second round was
simply wonderful, as was his quickness in at once deliver-
ing the winning hit. The victor was loudly cheered. He
is a great favorite, and has comported himself most
creditably.
* * * *
One Melb. bookie who does business on the Flat
presents a cigar to everyone who bets with him. The
next development will be the fare to town, a feed, and
price of a bed. Backers usually need them.
* * *
Joe Choynski’s defeat of Jim Hall on Jan. 20
was the result of pure gameness. The Hebrew could
scarcely stand at one time, but rallied, and in the 13th
round he got in a hurricane of smashes, and Hall slum-
bered. ’Murkan papers say Choynski is the only man who
has championship pretensions outside Fitzsimmons and
Maher. Now that Maher has none, the Hebrew will pro-
bably be taken on by Fitz. in preference to Slavin.
The Yaneleve five-year-old gelding Fitz has
proved himself the trotting champion of Australasia, his
unexpected exhibition at the A.T.O. meeting at Mooriee
Valley showing that Osterley and Mystery, the previous
record-holders, were not even second rate. The three
straight heats in the Free-for-All Trot were reeled off in
2.19, 2.16 2-oths, and 2.14 4-sths respectively.
* * * *
In one respect the selection - committee were
cute ! When there was a probability of the rep. team
being beaten they altered it, not caring to be forced to do
so subsequently.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re Stanbury’s match with
Harding, you seem to be justified in the remark that
sculling has been “ damned with cold neglect ” in England
ever since the local champions ceased to hold their own
against foreigners. But the fact contains a wrong sug-
gestion. British professional sculling was already dead
to the respectable sporting world when Hanlan beat
Elliott, the then so-called “champion.” It was in the
hands of the riff-raff, and its one liberal patron was a
bookmaker named Charley Bush, whose brethren re-
garded him as a mug for putting any faith in the class
of scullers prevailing at that time. Hanlan’s defeat of
Elliott didn’t induce any wealthy gentlemen sports to
look for new blood to restore Hingiish prestige. Sculling
was as dead as professional pugilism of the Tom Sayers
time (Sayers was the Last of the Bruisers) or pedes-
trianism, or cock-fighting. No quiet, inoffensive citizen
dare trust himself aboard a steamer following a “great”
boat-race—unless he had left all his valuables at home.
Ramping was practised almost with impunity, even on
the umpire’s boat, at the time of Trickett’s visit to Eng-
land. Under such circumstances public interest in this
never very handsomely-supported branch of athletic sport
couldn’t be expected to revive, nor will it ever revive
in England unless a few “ swells” choose to spend a
lot of money upon the bringing out of some more talent.
By the way, is professional sculling any more alive in
Australia and America than in England ? And is England
the only country whose people are easily put out of con-
ceit with themselves ? I remember an Australian Eleven
being beaten on its own ground by two distinct visiting
English teams previous to going ’Ome. Didn’t Australian
cricket fall very sick as the result of its champions’ re-
verses? —Facing Both Ways.
* * * *
.What’s in a name? C. D. Whitty, custom
house officer, Tweed Heads (N.S.W.), drew the horse Te
Whiti in a recent sweep.
A Sydney trainer once attributed his bad luck
with a couple of neddies to an ill-omened black cat, the
box mate of one of the prads. He killed the cat, and also
a black fowl that frequented the adjoining box. Luck
changed, and to this day he swears he lost hundreds
through that cat.
* * • *
A Yankee-grab curio : A., B. and C. are “left
in ” in a “ shake ” for two pair of geese, highest and
lowest eaph to take a pair. A. throws 16 ; 8., 11; and C.,
14 ; but unknown to 8., C. has “ saved” one goose with
A. ; and, unknown to A., has also “ saved ” one with B.
So loser C. takes a pair, and the winners only get one
goose apiece.
At Melb. Police-court, Nicholson, P.M., the
other day, fined a cyclist 20s. and 2s. 6d. costs for “ failing
in passing a foot-passenger to sound a bell or whistle to
give audible and sufficient warning of his approach.”
Likewise, the irate P.M. stated that for the future he
would, in every case, demand t. e full penalty of £lO or
gaol in default.
Staughton, the Toriest of Tory Vic. M’sP.,
possesses a splendid shooting-ground, of ''hich h
cratic friends have the run. But, besides heir „
with birds, &c., it is the grazing-ground for a herdot
steers, who spot imported johnnies and PU |S “ e .
wildly around the paddocks until they Oh® 1 ... ’
not the steers) swarm up trees for sa ety. Mean« le
Staughton placidly squats smoking on his front verandah
enjoying the fun.
Bird, J.P., that most astounding of Smell-
bourne’s honorary magistrates, was a policeman
in his young days, hence perhaps his fatherly
interest in young women who have strayed trom
virtue’s way.
The conference of Premiers in Sydney
gave the Falk studios occasion for an example o
smart photography. A negative of the members
was taken at 11 a.m., and the finished picture
giving a very fair result considering the lighting
of the room in which the conference was held
was in the hands of President Reid by 3.30.
Gov. Brassey is careful to rehearse the
State pantomime scenes in which he plays prin-
cipal boy. He visited Parliament House a few
days before the prorogation ceremony, and took
note of where his chair was to be placed, where
he would have to bow, and so on. He made
mental chalk-marks on the carpet, as it were, of
where he intended to stand, where his gaudily-
attired staff was to be grouped, and so on. It
recalls Macready’s habit of chalking on the stage
the exact spot where he intended to die in tragedy.
Nesbit, Q.C., is running politically amuck
in Adelaide. He is airing in the papers the
quarrel with his late law-partners, and announces
his candidature for Barossa, his native district,
against John Downer, leader of the Opposition :
rjsO THE ELECTORS OF BAROSSA.
Men and Women,—l propose to seek your suffrages
at the next election. I come forward as an opponent
of the Kingston Ministry. lamve y fond of Charlie,
but I think he can serve her Majesty better in Oppo-
sition for a year or two. Although he has done very
good work he is very slow and very stupid. He ha,s
truckled to the crowing hens who run the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union, and the Social Impurity
Society. Fancy! Charlie Kingston as the patron
saint of the Women’s Christian Temperance Union !
More details anon.
E. PARISS NESBIT,
Unity Chambers,
Currie-street.
February 28, 1896. 60.
And Kingston made Nesbit a Q.C. in spite of the
opposition of at least one of the Supreme Court
Judges.
The Meagher appeal case, after waiting
more than three months because the highly-paid
Judges were away fishing or something, got
started the other day. There are 19 separate
points to be argued, and the court nearly got
through one of them and then—owing to pressure
of other business accumulated while the Judges
were away fishing—it adjourned the matter for-
mally till next term, which is in May. Meanwhile
the defendant goes on waiting. It may be ulti-
mately decided by the court, when it gets through
all the 19 points, that he is legally a perfectly
innocent man, but in the interim he can’t work at
his profession ; he can’t go away to look for any
other kind of employment, for he must turn up
periodically to hear the court spend a day or two
over his case now and then and adjourn it again
for two months ; he can’t arrange to take up any
definite occupation, for in a few weeks or
two months or a year or some other indefinite
period the court may decide all the 19 points
against him —when the Judges come back from
fishing some time or other—and the possible gaol
is always in the distance. If he were a poor man
he would eat up his little capital while waiting,,
and then work down to the Domain, simply
because the law won’t settle his case promptly,
and makes him devote his time to the unprofitable
occupation of turning up periodically to get his
bail renewed. Yet the judicial department, in
its calm, stony fashion, cares nothing at all. The
bowelless gradualness of the superior Courts has
broken more hearts than anybody ever imagines.
And in contrast with the Sabbath calm of these
proceedings there is the red-hot haste and fury of
the Criminal Courts, which will sit till midnight
or till 2 a.m. for a week at a stretch, and rush
eight or nine people to the gallows in one batch.
One half of the legal system is a runaway express
tearing madly down the Great Zig-zag ; the other
half has all the velocity of a becalmed raft in
ballast.


Messrs. Howard Smith and Sons, the well-
known Australian shipowners, issue a handsomely-
bound, neatly-printed, and beautifully-illustrated
Handbook for Travellers.” It contains views of
all the important places on the long coast-line
from Perth (W.A.) to Northern Kanakaland ;
descriptions of towns and cities as they are and as
they were, and as they will be later on ; valuable
facts about their resources, and many other things.
The views are accurate and beautifully finished ;
the information also seems to be accurate; the
“ resources ” don’t unduly strain the public capa-
city for belief, and altogether the volume is a
commendable literary and artistic effort.
To Messrs. Stott & Hoare, of Melbourne,
belongs the credit of introducing; to Australia a
new musical instrument, which is doubtless the
cleverest recent invention in connection with
musical art. In addition to being a handsome
organ, dependent on artistic manipulation for its
bursts of melody, the “ Angelus Symphony
felicitous title —is also self-playing. A person
seated at the instrument can, without any techni-
cal knowledge of music ; direct the production of
all the leading compositions of the great masters,
and no audience could possibly tell that the key-
board had not been traversed by artistic fingers
for the production of each note. The “ Angelus
Symphony ” certainly brings a new element of art
and refinement within the reach of the dwellers in
the Australian bush.*
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
CYCLE SUPPLIERS
To His Excellency Lord Hampden.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
—for tiIE-
World-renowned HUMBERS, PREMIERS, etc.
W. J. C. ELLIOTT, Manager.
The Entertainment of the Year.
RUID
27tlx
Grand Annual Gala.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE,
EASTER MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1896.
Art, Union, 125 Gulden Prizes Value, £l5OO.
FIRST PRIZE, ElOOO Cash. No Deduction.
Great Cycling Carnival —Druids' Grea l vVheel Race, £201).
Art Union drawn public!. at Hibernian Hall, M<dh.,
on Monday, April 13, 8 p in. Winning numbers published
Melb. pipers, April 14. TickHs, Is. fach, with full list of
prizes, from your local agent ; or direct from the S ere-
tary. Is. each, 11 for 10s., or 23 for 205.. on reo-ipt of
postal note or stamps with address to J. J. BREN'AN, S"C.,
Grattan and Drummond Sis., Carlton; from whom all
particulars concerning Bicycle and Athletic events can lie
obtained. i=®~ £lOO9 for Is.
DAYLESPOPD
Vic. A.N.A. _Athletic Club.
Easter Monday , April 6, IS9G.
SHEFFIELD, £25 ; 130yds. Nomination, 4/-;
acceptance, 2/-
HALF-MILE, <£lo. Nom., 2/0 ; accept., 2/-
UNDERHAND WOOD CHOP, £lO. Nom.,
2/G; accept., 1/6
OPEN BICYCLE HANDICAP, .£l7 (2 miles).
Nom., 3/- ; accept., 2/-
THIRTEEN OTHER EVENTS.
Nominations close 16th March; Acceptances, 31st.
Athletic events under V.A. League Rules; A. Cole
(Stawell), Handicapper. Bicycle Races (L.V.W. Rules)
run on new cinder-banked 4ft. track, 4 laps to the mile
P. F. MURE, Sec.
LEAGUE of
Wheelmen.
MONSTER
Cycle Race
Meeting.
A.ll Australia’s Craclta
MEETING
MARTIN, the wonderful Yankee,
HARRIS, England’s Champion,
AND
PORTA, Italy’s Wonder.
A gricultural Gro un d,
SYDNTEY,
Saturday, 14th March,
And Saturday, 21st.
FIRST RACE—2.4O. FIRST RACE—2.4O.
§
Admission - - la.
Reserve or Stand, Is. extra.
Amusements.
LYCEUM THEA Tlt E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Manners, Messrs. Williamson and
Musgrove.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION OE THE LATEST ADDITION
TO THE REPERTOIRE,
“ JVI IS S DECIM A.”
A Sparkling, Witty and Amusing Operatic Comedy in
Tnree Acts, adapted from the French by F. C. Burnand.
No Free List. Pricks as Usual. Early Doors Is. extra.
QIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING 1
The Dramatic Event of the Century—the Sensational,
Romantic, Spectacular Drama,
“THE LANI) OF THE MO A.”
Written by Mr. George Leitcli.
GREAT REALISTIC TABLEAUX.
Popular Trices.] W. M’LEAN, Business Manager
To Follow -The Silence of Dean Maitland.
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
“ Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Briuliant Success of
Mr. Marry Rickards’ New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
60 High-Class Performers 60
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, il Is; Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
fpHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. MR. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS'S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY CO.
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
Amusements.
J£ E U M AJKSTY'S, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees .. Messrs. Woods & Marshall.
Manager .. Mr. Alfred Woods.
Last 2 Nights tl lU[nn+e /Prir'n ,f East 2 Nights
Last 2 Nights <*& onie %tHSiO. L:|st 2 Nights
Last Nights of Australia’s Favorite, ALFRED DAMPIER,
lit his renowned impersonation of Edmond Dantes.
Popular Prices of Admission. Box Plan at Nicholson’s
J. L. LE BRETON. Acting Manager.
Saturday, March 14—“ A TRANSVAAL HEROINE.”
■pHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. C. B. Westmacott.
Treasurer and Bus. Manager . Mr. Frank Barnes.
7.45 EVERY EVENING 7.45
“The Lancashire Lass.”
Prices-3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Theatre. Booking
Fee, 6d.
LEX AN DR A THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the management of Mr. Dan Barry.
MAGNIFICENT SUCCESS OF THE REALISTIC
DRAMA,
“The Factory Girl,"
(OF MELBOURNE) by
DAN BARKY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
DUNCAN MACALLUM Agent.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
Sub-Lessees and Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
‘‘THE PASSPORT.”
Bex Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Saturday, March 14— 11 FEDORA.”
(In whioh Mr. Titheradge will make his Reappearance.)
NICHOLSON & CO.
Have Removed from the Corner Kinsf arid Georae Streets, to their
New and Elegant Premises,
NEXT EQUITABLE BUILDING,
George-street, Sydney.
THE
Finest Piano & Music Warehouse in the Southern Hemisphere.
Note the New Address : Next Equitable Building.
WE PAY HIGHEST PRICES IN CASH for
KANGAROO SKINS,
CEO. WILCOX & CO.,
9 Young Street,
CIRCULAR QUAY,
SYDNEY. •
WALLABY SKINS,
RABBIT SKINS,
OPOSSUM & BEAR SKINS.
NO COMMISSIONS DEDUCTED.
PAYMENT RETURNED SAME DAY SKINS RECEIVED.
"Write for Price Liat.
PROSPECTUS
—OF THE—
Young' Bushman Gold-mining & Quartz-crushing Company,
JO LIABILITY.
GOOBANG, PARKES GOLDFIELD, NEW SOUTH WALES.
To be registered under the “No Liability Mining Companies Act” of New South Wales.
NOMINAL CAPITAL, 112,500, in 50,000 Shares of ss. each.
20,000 WHEREOF FULLY RAID UP are reserved for the vendors in full payment for the
mine, with <£soo cash for the work done on the mine. The vendors guarantee the mine will pay
dividends as soon as machinery is erected and they start crushing.
30,000 CONTRIBUTING SHARES are now offered to the public on the following terms, viz. 6d.
per share on application and 6d. per share on allotment, such contributing shares to be subject to calls
not exceeding 2d. per month. The whole of the money, less <£soo cash to the vendors for the work
done on the mine and brokerage, printing, and other expenses of forming the Company, which is
limited to <£lso, goes to the credit of the Company for purchasing and placing quartz-crushing
machinery and plant on the ground.
Directors : To be elected at the First General Meeting of the Shareholders.
Bankers : The COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, Ltd., Sydney and Parkes.
Brokers : Messrs. H. G. NORTON and CO., 3 Gladstone-chambers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
and at Melbourne and Ballarat, Victoria.
Secretary (pro. tem.) and Offices : GEORGE E. COOPER, 3 Gladstone-chambers, 90 Pitt-st., Sydney.
THIS COMPANY is being formed for the purpose of acquiring, developing, and taking over from
the present owners the YOUNG BUSHMAN GOLD MINE, situated at Goobang, on the Parkes
goldfield, New South Wales, containing an area of eight acres, held under gold-mining lease from the
Crown, exclusive of dam and machinery site.
The mine is situate eight miles from Parkes, with nice level country and good roads to the mine.
THE BROKERS beg to draw attention to the following headings, which give full particulars of
the mine and developments thereon.
COUNTRY and REEFS.—The reefs are traversing through splendid, easy]-working country, ex-
ceptionally favorable for carrying auriferous reefs. The country rock is a soft diorite and slate. The
trend of the main reef is east and west, and is from 2ft. to 2ft. 6in. wide, and sliuhtly underlaying to
the north, and has every appearance of continuing to a depth, and at present there are hundreds of
tons of payable ore in sight.
SHAFTS.—There are seven shafts sunk on the line of reef, the deepest being 180 ft., showing
payable stone —one of 150 ft., the present workings ; the reef is exposed for a distance of 120 ft., ana
intersected in different places by four shafts, and in each shaft payable stone can be obtained. The
reef varies from 2ft. to 2ft. bin. in width, with well-defined walls on each side.
LOCALITY. —The locality is a good one, needing no comment, being no great distance from the
famous New Bushman, Dayopring, and Best’s rich find.
GOLD. —By Mint returns over 800 oz. have already been won from THE YOUNG BUSHMAN’S
MINE, the gold returning <£3 17s. 10,jd per oz., being very free gold.
TIMBER. —Timber can be obtained for all purposes on and about the mine.
BATTERY SITE.—The promoters have been fortunate in securing a battery site, and a dam
sufficient to hold a twelvemonths’ supply of water for the battery.
DIVIDENDS. —The Mine, energetically and economically worked, should pay its fortunate
shareholders regular dividends in a couple of months, or as soon as the battery is erected, and the
Brokers assert this is one of the best investments in the colony of New South Wales, as payable ore
can be raised from the start. The lowest ever crushed from this mine has been 15dwt. per ton, and
some has reached 3oz. and 4oz. per ton. The mine is admitted by competent experts to be one of the
best properties on the Parkes goldfield.
Particulars are hereto attached of the only contract known affecting the proposed Company ; but,
in order to prevent any future questions or difficulties arising, applicants for shares will be deemed to
have waived any further compliance with Clause 69 of the Companies Act. The original contract and
also the present titles of the Mine to be taken over by the Company may be inspected at the office of
the Brokers to the Company, Messrs. H. G. Norton & Co., 3 Gladstone Chambers, 90 Pitt-st., Sydney,
where all further particulars can be obtained and plans inspected, and specimens of the ore viewed.
Application for shares, upon the attached form, accompanied by remittance, at the rate of fid. per
share, must be made to the Brokers. No application for less than 50 shares will be received.
If no allotment, the application money will be returned in full. In case of allotted shares, if the
allotment money is not paid within 10 days of allotment, the allotment may be cancelled, and the
application deposit forfeited to the Company.
PP PARTICULARS OF CONTRACT.
1896_March 4. Agreement for the formation of the Company made between Morrison and Party
of the one part, and Leonard Smith of the other part, being an agreement for the purchase of the
Mine referred to in the prospectus for 20,000 fully paid-up scares and <£soo cash.
Publishers’ Notice.
Photos from Life .
Beautucl Studies of Female Figures (draped and un*
draped), for Artists or Collectors, taken direct from
f.imous French and Italian LIVING models. Larire
assortment, various positions, symmetrical figures. Abso-
lutely true to Nature. Exqui-ite sample photo., mounted
on special bevell d card, and price-list on receipt of 12d,
colonial stamps. Very uncommon ; truly life-like.
Tlie Art Photo. Co..
93 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ENTS WANTED
—IN—
EVERY TOWN in the COLONIES
To Undertake the SALE of the
“ Western Australian
Goldfields Courier.*’
The Courier is the Largest Weekly Newspaper
published in Western Australia, and is the Lead-
ing Paper issued on the Goldfields. Illustrations
of Life on the Field, and Views of the Mines are
published in Each Issue.
It is the Best Paper for Advertising
Purposes.
Qd, PRICE ec3L.
J 3?" Liberal Commission to Newsagents. TEJ
Specimen Copies Free on Application ,
Office: Bayley Street, COOLGrARDIE-
Latest ir'u.tjlica, 1 ms.
In the Days when the World was
Wide and other Verses. By Henry
Lawson. 2nd thousand; Cr. 8vo.; printed
on Dutch hand-made paper and bound in
buckram, gilt top. ss. ; post free, ss. 6d.
The Man from Snowy River and
other Verses. By A. B. Paterson
(“ The Banjo ”). sth thousand ; on hand-
made paper, bound in art linen, gilt top.
ss. ; post free, ss. 4d.
Recipes for Lenten Dishes. By Airs.
Wicken, Lecturer in Technical College,
Sydney. Cloth, Is. ; post free, Is. 2d.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
Booksellers to the University,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
JUST READY, No. 17, “IMPERIAL
SONGSTER.’ Containing 100 LATEST
SONGS, PARODIES, RECITATIONS. Twenty
Pages of complete Music, with words. Price, 6d.
All Storekeepers.
Try ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF - MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladies, Gentlemen and t'liildren.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Kree.
BEWARE
JEALOUS
UN RE I
GISTERED
IMITATORS
c
\jy
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DL>; next ascertain the length and width
of tread l>y placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating whatsizeyou generally take,
what are your peculiarities-a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into ths
country districts where practical boolmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price,
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Catalogue and Treatise on the Human Foot, post free
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT
FOR A FEWWEEKS ONLY.
A Guinea’s Worth
FOR—
13s. 6d.
Cut this Coupon out, forward
together with your Measure-
ments & Remittanceof 13s.
6d., when you will hare
mailed to you,post free
apairofthose French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow
or wide i
toes. >
£llis'i
COUP.ON
Cl/INEA
“ I had a pair of your bools 16 months ago, ar.d I must
say they have been the best 1 have ever worn ; in fact,
they are still quite good, and will last another six months.”
—ALFRED KINO, Avoca Station, Gulargambone, N.S. W.
November 1, 1895.
TWENTY MONTHS' WEAR WITHOUT HALF-SOLING!
“In March, 1894 (last year), you made me a pairoi
Balmorals which have lasted me till the present time.
I HAVE ONLY .tUST HAD THEM HALF-SOLED. They are Un-
doubtedly the best boots I have ever had: please find
cheque enclosed for another pair.”—JACK E. MUL-
HOLLAND, Mail Contractor, Warrong, Mitchell, Queens-
land. Nov. 5, 1895.
Orders, accompanied bv remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques(ls.). Note the address:
The Intercolonial Foot Costume Manufactory
T. E. ELLIS, Manager,
633 GEORGE STREET (Ha ymarket l , SYDNEY;
And at Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W,


Greenfield and
Barraclough,
Spectacle Makers,
371 GEORGE STREET 371
(A.J.S. Bank-buildings, near King Street, SYDNEY).
Sir SAMUEL GRIFFITH, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice,
Queensland, writes:—“l have much pleasure in saying
that you are entirely at liberty to make use of my name
in certifying to your being competent Ophthalmic
Opticians, in whom the public may place confidence.”
Sight Examined Free of Charge.
RESTORED TO HEALTH
BY THE USE OF
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. Cumming, of Yarraville,
Victoria, Australia, says:
“About a year ago, I had a severe attack
of Influenza, which left me very weak, with-
out energy, appetite, or interest in life. Ob-
taining little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recommended to me,
I finally tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and from
that time, I began to gain health and strength.
I continued the treatment until fully recov-
ered, and now have very great pleasure in
telling my friends of the merits of Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla, and the happy results of its use. I
consider it the best blood-pur tier known.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Has cured others, will cure you.
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,Mass.fU.S.A.
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch anil Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it prodi ces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co.
John Connell&Co., Ltd.
BE A UTIF VL EL O WEBS
—AT—
SEARL’S,
SYDUEY’S FLOEISTS,
109 King Street.
Telephone 1117.
All persons who suffer from that obstinate
and agonising affliction, piles, are recommended
to try Lombardia. This remedy is backed up by
a great array of testimonials from persons .who
have tried it, and who report favourably upon its
curative powers as something far beyond the
ordinary. *
The firm of Geo. Wilcox and Co., of 9, 11,
and 13 Young-street, Sydney (fine new premises),
invites every bushman and boy of Australia to
send down for a price-list of kangaroo, wallaby,
bear and opossum skins. The firm states that a
good, progressive business is now being done with
America, Germany, and England in the above
commodities, and expects the demand to increase
still more the coming winter season. Most of the
kangaroo skins come from Bananaland and the
nor’-west of N.S.W., and a proof that the good
old-man kangaroo is not yet wiped out appears in
the fact that niany a skin weighs close on 41b.
The firm deals largely in hides and sheepskins—
sent away 94,000 hides last year out of a total
N.S.W. export of 360,000.*
Old, solid, reliable drinkers are practically
unanimous in reporting the Caledonian Liqueur
Whisky to be the best in the market. It is a very
pale, straw-tinted liquor whose hue, when it is
held up to the light, is a poem in itself : it is pure,
mild to the taste, yet stronger than many of the
blazing decoctions which have a flavor like unto
the swallowing of a torch-light procession, and its
aroma is what one dreams about in visions of
Paradise. Also it is put up in quaint, pyramid-
shaped bottleS} with a bilge like a life-buoy round
the centre, which affords a firm grasp for an un-
steady hand and serves as a landmark for an eye
that is on the swivel. After which outbreak of
poetic fervor the fact that Mr. Ealchin is the
Sydney agent sounds like very plain, dull prose.*
Nevons sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.
In a Jesuit church at North Sydney,
lately, the preacher forcibly impressed upon his
hearers that the payment of debts to their
fellow-business people should take precedence of
donations to the church. “ We’ll get along some-
how,” said the reverend philosopher. In the
same spirit the early Quakers adopted a regula-
tion under which debtors were forbidden to con-
tribute to church funds until they had satisfied all
civil demands against them, and, in the case of
bankruptcy, until not only they had received the
court discharge, but had also paid off the balance
of liabilities. Many Quakers still observe that
regulation.
M
ONTCERRAT
Lime Fruit Juice
SAUCE.
A delicious novelty
in Sauce. Only the
Famous Montserrat
used i n i ts prod notion.
Sold Everywhere.
1207
■Ok-, , asssssSM
124
372
1208
I
-
403
126
WVi
ill WVI
125
127
p34jf|
wmW
078
57
56
—THE—
Australian
Needlewood
Pipe Co., Ltd.,
65 8 George Street,
Sydney,
Make the
Sweetest & Coolest Pipe
Ever placed on the Market,
SEE THAT OUR TRADE
MARK
Is on each Pipe, as a guaran-
tee of excellence.
PRICE LISTS SENT TO
THE TRADE.
Ask your Tobacconist for the
A USTItALIAN
NEEDLE WOOP
PIPE,
or send number of shape and
price to the above address.
Nos. 078, 124, 125, 126, 127,
56, 57, 234 — 3/6 each.
Nos. 403, 372, 1207
4/6 each.
COUGHS
SPEEDY RELIEF and CURE.
TAKE
J3ONNINGTONS
(Registered)
Irish Moss
—FOR —
COUGHS,
COLDS,
INFLUENZA,
ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS,
VOICE,
THROAT, and all
LUNG COMPLAINTS.
BONNIITGTON’S Irish Moss
INSTANT RELIEF.
BONNINGTON’S
Liver Pills.
ValuaTole Cure
FOB
BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,
DIZZINESS,
TORPID LIVER.
Prized by all who have tried them-
J^ONNINGTONS
FOB Liver Tonic
GENERAL DEBILITY
And NERVOUS IRRITABILITY,
HE \RTBURN,
KIDNEY DISEASES,
And all Derangements of Liver.
THE
* Plum ’
THE
‘ Plum’
('d ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plutn
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind Qf edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two. Years.
Price i Sj»g le Razor, in strong leatlu r case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* - in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any oj the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 George Street, SYDNEY.
£"|F you are troubled with Sick Headache, Loss of Appk-
tite, Constipation, Disorders of the Stomach, Liver
3
C
?
3
£
3
r
DR.
UWER&R\iOOD
CYifkP\PN\\Uj
COMPOUND
MAKES NEW RICH BLOOD.
Has been proved by
Living Witnesses.
oh Kidneys, take Dr, Hope’s Com-
pound. Do you feel Weak and
Debilitated, Ambitionless and
Depressed, then take Dr. Hope’s
Compound. It completely changes
the entire system by removing all
impurities, and Invigorating the
Exhausted and Debilitated con-
stitution.
There are no failures and no disap-
pointments. It acts gently, pleasantly
and quickly. For all Female Com-
plaints it has no equal on earth,
(lives Vigor and renewed strength to
the human system when deranged by
Overwork or Excesses.
It will cure you.
SOLD LVERYWHERE. PRICE, 3/6, BY POST, M-
TaVe Dr. Hope’s Compoond in all eases of Nervous,
ness hxhaus ion, Blood Disoiders, Liver, Kidney
and ,-tomach Troubles and regain your former health
PREPARED ONLY AT THE AUSTRALIAN APOTHECARIES’ DISPENSARY,
506 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
TTse
Au
g Powder
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food Is sold b>
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
the aged.
The other day a man was prosecuted for
stealing a water-bottle from Sydney Anglican
Cathedral. The day following the trial there was
left on the verger’s door-step a pile of miscellaneous
articles that, at divers times, had been taken from
the church “ by mistake.”
SUICIDE: AN ALLEGORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Come hither, man, the feast of life is set ;
The servitors are entering one by one.
Eat, honored guest, be happy, nor forget
To thank me when ’tis done.”
The candlelights in human skulls did sink ;
He gave me earth for food and flesh all stark;
He gave me blood of living men to drink.
I rushed into the dark ;
When after me in wrath the monster sped
Because that I had thus unduly risen,
And shook me sore and beat me till I bled,
And hauled me off to prison.
C. CLYDE..
M.L.
There is humor in the North —even in the
science of impounding. Brown impounds Jones’s
pigs and sends him a peremptory request to release
them, and to pay ss. per head damages for
trespass on Crown leasehold. The owner heeds
not for some time, while the impounder camps out
of his comfortable bed all night watching the pigs
by the creek. After a while he naturally relaxes
his vigilance, and a knowing old boar takes down
the gates, goes out, and is followed by the others.
At daylight up comes the owner, a cunning varlet,
with ss. per head in his hand. “If you please,
Mr. Brown, I’ve come to release my pigs.”
The bewildered Brown cannot account for the
swine, and Jones immediately swears they were
worth ,£5 a head. And then the fun begins.
Henry Lawson says, in the true dogmatic
style of a cocksure poet:—
The self-same spirit that drives the man to the depths of
drink and crime
Will do the deeds in the heroes’ van, that live till the end
of time. •
The living death in the lonely bush, the greed of the
selfish town,
And even the creed of the outlawed push is chivalry—up-
side down.
A striking illustration of this statement was given
in Melb. recently, when a 10-times convicted
larrikin was brought before the Court for the 11th
time, charged with battering an inoffensive citizen.
The Bench, which had but a few minutes pre-
viously complimented accused on the “ unusual
bravery ” he had displayed in rescuing a woman
who had tried to drown herself, let him off with a
nominal fine. It is larrikins of this type who,
when properly handled, form the bulk of Forlorn
Hopes in time of war. P.S.—The larrikin, brought
before the Court again, got three months for steal-
ing a pair of boots.


u
RR
ASSMU
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
N,
SOLE PROPRIETOR AND MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED AND
PURELY HERBAL
ALFALINE REMEDIES
(Registered.)
WHICH HAVE BEEN PROVED TO BE THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Skin, Blood and Nerve Remedies,
NOT ONLY THROUGHOUT THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES, BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD, AND
WHICH HAVE GIVEN GENERAL SATISFACTION TO THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FOR OVER 10 YEARS,
AS PROVED BY HIS
THOUSANDS of UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
List of the illfaline Remedies.
Vitality Restored
ALPALINE
VITALITY PILLS
Are the only real cure for all kinds of Nervous
Affections. They have been before the Aust>a-
lian public for many years, and stood a test which
may well be envied by all other manufacturers of
similar i emedies; in fact, they have received more
real genuine
TESTIMONIALS
than any other remedy in the world, and are a
REAL CURE for all forms of
Nervousness and Debility,
the unhappy results of Early Follies, Specks before
the Eyes, Giddiness, Lost Vitality, Fullness after
Meals, Backache, Headache, Blushing, Want of
Ambition, Exhaustion, Poor Memory, Excita-
bili'y, Irritable, Tired in the Morning, Confused
Brain, Weak Spine, and Sensitive Nerves.
Those about to Marry
who have suffered from any of the above symp-
toms, would be wise also to take a course of the
Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to commence their
new life in a perfect state of health and vigor.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills
Have been the means of restoring thousands to
health, strength and vigor.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course ... ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Send for FREE BOOK, giving all information
and advice.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— l/- 3/-, and 6/-.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Special Double course,
43 6; ordinary course, 23,6. Smaller boxes, 12/-, 6/-,
and 3/-,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -Boxes, 23,6,
12 , 6/-, and 3
Alfaline Universal Pills— For Sterility, the Blood
& Nerves. Boxes, 43 6, 23/6, 12/- and 6/-.
Alfaline Fle3h-producing Powder— Builds up
and Str*'iurihens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6/-
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powder- Boxes, 6 -.
Alfaline Injection Powder— Cures the Whites.
Boxes, 6 -.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— Boxes, 6/- and
3 -.
Alfaline Hair Restorer— Boxes, 6/- and 3/-.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6/-.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6/-
Alfalne Varicocele Powders— Packets, 6/-.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, 1/- and 2/-.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateahle. Boxes, 1/- ; posted, 1,6
Alfaline Bath Tablets Prevents Diseases, Regu-
lars the Pores, Beautifies the Skin and Perfumes
the Bath. Boxes, 1/-; posted, 1/6
Enemas, Suspender Bandages, &c„ &c.
Blood Purified.
ALF ALINE
LOCK CURE PILLS
Are a
Wonderful Blood Purifier and Skin and
Blood Tonio-
This Blood Remedy has been proved lo surpass
and excel all other known and advertised Blood
Remedies. It is not the usual Mercury remedy,
but a real, genuine
Purely Herbal Remedy.
which is used by all kinds of
BLOOD SUFFERERS
throughout the whole world. It has no equal,
inasmuch as it does not permit the least particle
of IMPURITY or TAINT to remain in the
system.
The ALF ALINE LOCK PILLS completely
cures and removes all forms of Discharges, Stric-
tures, Scaldings, Sores, Blotches, Pimples, and
all forms of Old and Long-standing Private Blood
Complications.
Those about to Marry
should always take a course of this Blood Remedy,
so as to make sure that no Blood Taint be im-
parted to their children.
Special Powerful Course ... 43/6
Ordinary Course (posted) ... 23/6
Smaller Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted)
ELECTRIC BELTS.
Herr Rassmussen is agent for the IMPERIAL
ELECTRIC BELT, which is superior to all
other Electric Belts, and which are unequalled
for strengthening the
SPINE and NERVES,
and a Certain Preventative against Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gout, Nervous Weakness, St. Vitus’
Dance, Lost Manhood, Want of Vigor, and all
forms of Kidney Affections. The Imperial Electric
Belt requires no acids or dangerous liquids to
generate the Electric Current, and it is worked by
dry cells, and therefore, always ready for use.
Send for circular, which is sent free.
Prices.—With three Batteries, 63/
With two Batteries, 42/
With one Battery, 30/
The most Powerful Electric Belt ever made. It
is protected by Royal Letters Patent, and regis-
tered in all the colonies.
Important.
<ar ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
Herr RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial Branches, or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George-street, Sydney.
Or simply address your letters thus —PROPRIETOR, Bux 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING MONEY.
WARNING.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is the Original and Only Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should
always obtain the remedies direct from his own establishments, as advertised on this page. All Herr
RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can onlv be obtained from his own Offices and Branches, as mentioned. Pamphlet sent. free.
CORRfc.SI’ONDENCE HELD STRI< TLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies and Pamphlet
sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or to his Branches.
Selected Testimonials.
Nerves Cured
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb., July 18, 1892.
Dear Sir—l have much pleasure to inform you
that a course of your Alfaline Pills completely
cured me of a severe case of biliousness, wind and
nervousness. I may also mention that several of
my friends to whom I have recommended your
remedies have derived great benefit from them;
therefore, I consider you are deserving of success,
wnioh I do most heartily wish you. —Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testi-
mony carries special weight, writes thus : To Herr
Rassmussen. —Dear Sir,—l think it my duty to
inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my nervous system,
and, in consequence, I have recommended them
to many friends, who have all been cured by their
use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Mcst-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herb Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform
you that I have derived great benefit from your
celebrated Alfaline Remedies during my explor-
ing expeditions throughout Australia, and I con-
sider them invaluable to all travellers in the bush.
—Yours very truly, B. BUTTON,
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness : A. F. Bekeb, Manager, Grand Hotel,
Spring-street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:—“The Pills I had
from you were of great benefit to me and others.
In one case, when three hunters and trappers
were travelling about the ranges near my place on
the Rose River, one was taken very ill ; his mates
intended taking him in a waggon to Wangaratta
(about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor. I
gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to
inform you that having to pass their camp next
day, I found him up and pegging-out his skins
and looking well. This speaks volumes for your
valuable Remedies.”
A Lady’s Wish Fulfilled
It gives me great pleasure indeed to inform
you that your celebrated Alfaline Universal Pills
cured me, when all other remedies and doctors
failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of 18 years’
standing. My wish is fulfilled at last, and I don’t
know how to thank you enough. Dear Sir, I
shall recommend your Alfaline Remedies to all
sufferers I come across. You are quite at liberty
to publish or make what use you like of this testi-
monial, and anyone writing to me will have full
particulars. I am, yours respectfully, Mrs. E.
SMITH, Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S.
Wales.
A Miraculous Cure.
The father of Mr. Peter Larsen, the celebrated Band-
master to the Queensland Military, writes as follows :
Ithaca st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane,
Sept. 20, 1892.
To Herb Rassmussen.
‘Dear Sir,—l am jubilant to inform you that
your wonderful Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate internal complaint; and
that, although I am now over 70 years of age,
I feel as strong as any young man, and shall
always be grateful to you.
Yours very truly, N. LARSEN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Hekr Rassmussen,
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline
Lock Cure Pills completely cured me of a very
bad disease. Previous to taking your Lock Pills,
I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better; and I shall
never regret trying your Alfaline Pills, as they
had a wonderful effect on my complaint, which
several of my work-mates can testify to. I have
recommended your Alfaline Herbal Remedies to
several of my friends, who have reason to be very
grateful for it, and I shall always do my best to
recommend them to any fellow sufferers. You
are authorised to publish this testimonial.
Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
Witnessed by W. Bowman, corner Hay and
William-streets, Perth, W.A.
Blood Disease Cured.
Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your
Alfaline Lock Pills completely cured me of a
serious blood affection of three years’ standing. I
shall always be glad to recommend your Alfaline
Remedies to my friends. You are at liberty to
publish this testimonial for the benefit of other
similar sufferers.
Yours gratefullv,
JAMES .NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir, —In the year of 1871 I was eight days
in the water sheep-washing, and contracted rheu-
matism and stiffnes- in the joints, and have tried
all advertised medicines. When I came to Sydney
I had a great difficulty in walking, and went to
the Turkish baths, which did no good. Passing
your window I saw a testimonial from Mr. E.
W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same complaint as
I had, which led me to try your Remedies. On
Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of
your Pills; since then 1 have used 4 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Vitality Pills, 3 boxes Special
Powerful Alfaline Rheumatic Pills, with Liver
and Kidney Pills, and free use of your Alfaline
Eucalyptus Oil, and I am now, with the blessing
of God, as well in health as I was 23 years ago.
I can with great confidence recommend your
Remedies to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint. May you long be spared under God to
be a blessing to suffering humanity.
I remain, dear sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
Witness : Eoward Hardy, proprietor Town
Hall Coffee Palace, 521 George-street.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, —I hereby beg to certify that having been
a sufferer from General Debility of the Nervous
System for over seven years, and having tried
without success several of the leading doctors
both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did
so, for after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies
I am now completely cured, and I shall be most
happy to recommend your remedies to anyone
suffering as I was. Thanking you for your
courtesy and the uniform patience with which
you have treated me, allow me to say that you
can make what use you may think proper of this.
Wishing you every success, allow me to remain,
yours,
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As witness: John Hagerman (my husband),
caretaker Tivoli Theatre, Castlereagh - street,
Sydney.
.A. Valuable Free Book.
Herr Rassmussen’s New Book, “THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains much valuable
information, and n any useful hints to sufferers from Nervous Weakness and Lost Vitality, as well as
from almost any known complaint peculiar to the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Liver and Kidneys, etc., will be
sent post free and unobserved to anyone sending for same. This book contains a large number of testi-
monials, as well as the almanac up to the end of the century. Posted. Free and Unobserved.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Head
Office:
547 George St., Sydney.
AND AT HIS INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
Melbourne : 150 Hour he Street
Adelaide: 151 Randle Street
Brisbane : 160 Queen Street
N-Z. : 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
West Australia: Corner Hay and William Streets , Perth .


TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER PRIZE LIST.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams,
Hobart, TASMANIA.
Hawkssky H.
RUN AT ROSEHILL
21st MARCH.
50,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
Doncaster Q.
RUN AT RANDWICK
4th APRIL.
25,000 Subscribers
at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
BANK OF VAN DIEMEN’S LAND.
Grand Lottery.
SANCTIONED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT OF TASMANIA, 57 VIC., No. 2, 1893.
SECOND DISTRIBUTION OF PROPERTIES,
Total Value, £50,000.
—IN—
-200,000 Tickets at Five Shillings (55.) Each.
The SECOND DISTRIBUTION of PROPERTIES, authorised under the Lottery Aet,
will include the following
MAGNIFICENT PRIZES I
Prize. Value.
1. Orient Hotel ... ... ... £13,500
2. Bank Premises, Launceston ... 8,000
3. Bank Premises, Devonport ... 5,< 00
4. Orchard, Glenorchy ... ... 4,000
5. All Nations Hotel, Zeehan, let at
rental £220 ... ... ... 3,000
6. Royal Exchange Hotel, Zeehan, let
at rental <£2oo ... ... ... 2,500
7. Store, Orchard, etc., Huonville ... 2,250
8. Meadowbanks Estate ... ... 2,000
9. Federal Hotel, Zeehan ;or cash less
10 per cent. ... ... ... 1,500
10. Residence, 18 rooms (weatherboard,
Don ;or cash less 10 per cent. ... 1,000
11. Hall and Offices, Zeehan; or cash
less 10 per cent. ... , ... ... 500
12. Orchard, Hiion ... ... ... 450
13. Cottage, Launceston ... ... 400
14. Cottage, Hobart ... ... ... 300
15. 214 Acres Land, Castra ... ... 300
16. Cottage, Forth ... ... ... 250
17. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 220
18. 74 Acres Lands, Cumberland ... 210
19. Cottage and 30 Acres Land, Ship-
wright’s Point ... ... ... 200
20. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
21. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
22. Building Site, Esplanade, Bellerive 200
23. Building Site, Bellerive ... ... 200
24. Cottage, Launceston ... ... 200
25 to 29. Five Allotments, Hobart—
.£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
30 to 34. Five Allotments, Hobart—
<£loo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
35 to 44. Ten Allotments. Penguin—
.£so each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
45 and 46. Two Cottages, Don—.£so
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
47 and 48. Two Cottages, Don—<£so
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
55 to 58. Four Cottages, Don —£25 each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 100
59 to 61. Three Cottages, Don —£25 each,
or cash less 10 per cent. ... ... 76
62 to 66. Five Allotments, Latrobe—<£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 125
67 to 70. Four Allotments, Leith—.£2s
each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
71 to 74. Four Allotments,' Penguin—
£2s each, or cash less 10 per cent. 100
75 to 124. Fifty £-Acre Lots, Strahan—
£lo each, or cash less 10 per cent. 500
125 to 145. Twenty-one Building Lots,
Don—£s each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ... ... ... ... 105
146 to 168. Twenty-three Building Lots,
Don—£s each, or cash less 10 per
cent. ... ... ... ... H 5
169 to 188. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
189 to 208. Twenty 5-Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ... 100
209 to 224. Sixteen 1 Acre Lots, Don—
£s each, or cash less 10 per cent. ...' 80
£50,080
In the event of the total number of tickets not being SOLD, the Drawing will take place
pro rata, and a proportionate number of the alternative Cash Prizes will be included in
such drawing.
TO TATTERSALL—
Please allot me shares
in the above Lottery.
Name
I t.i : : ,
A ddress
£
■ K
Sydney C.
RUN AT RAND WICK
6th APRIL.
25,000 Subscribers
Oils Si*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
the above.
Name.
Shares in
£
Address
CAULFIELD C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
above.
Please allot me.
Name.
.Shares in
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Business Announcement.
For
Infants, Children,
™ Invalids.
A Complete Food in Itself.
Recommended by the Highest Medical Authorities
throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
FOR THE DESTRUCTION
OF ALL
Insect Pests,
KRUSE’S
Insecticide
Is the ONLY RELIABLE Agent.
CERTAIN in ACTION. QUICK in RESULTS.
Is quite Harmless to Animal Life, and can
with perfect Safety be applied to Dogs,
Cats, Poultry, &c.
Preserves Clothing from the ravages of the Moth.
Destroys Aphis and Vine Caterpillar.
Far more effectual than Tobacco Smoke in
Ferneries.
BEWARE OF USELESS IMITATIONS,
and see that you get
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE.
In TINS at Is., Is. 6 1., 2s. 6d., 55., & 10s. each.
SOLD N V I3RYWHERH.
529 George St.,
<?
NEAR LIVERPOOL ST.
OILS.
Paper-hangings.
aints.
Material
Ur>
M
'ct u
° u ld,
r e
in
gs.
s-
C 2
ARTISTS’
DEPOT.
Window
Decorations.
Plate &. Sheet Glass
Polar Refrigerating 1 Paint reduces the heat
in buildings from 40° to 50°.
H. H. Groth, Junr.,-& Co.
529 George Street, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Celebrated CB Corsets
(Patented and Registered)
c
Are recommended
as beyond all com-
parison the best a
lady can buy.
They are perfect in
shape, most com-
fortable in wear,
and import in per-
fection that grace-
ful symmetry
which so favorably
distinguishes the
pre*ent style of
dress.
To Ladies who
are used to ordi-
nary Corsets, the
delightful sense of
ease, comfort and
support derived
from wearingC.B.
Corsets will come
as a pleasant reve-
lation.
Wholesale Agents— J. K. WEWPOKT .V SOWS,
Chisholm Lane, Sydney, & Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
GREENBAUM’S
Cucumber Juice Skin Tonic
Softens, Whitens and Smoothes the Skin.
“Send for Samples Free.”
SOLE AGENT: _A._ ZMT.A.IR/iKZS.,
Hairdresser and Perfumer,
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
In Palmerston N. (M.L.), drivers of
licensed vehicles are prohibited from smoking.
The New Woman ?
Dear Bulletin, —The par, which troubles
me is some time away ; but it should be set right.
Chief-Justice Onslow (W. A.) did not say that “ a
detective is perfectly justified in luring a man on
to crime and then arresting him.” On the con-
trary, in the case referred to, one of alleged bottle-
stealing, he said that he hoped such evidence as
that given as to the luring would never again be
given in a court of law. Subsequently, the alleged
bottle-stealer sued his erstwhile prosecutor for
malicious prosecution, and it was in this case that
Justice Hensman said that “the only limit he would
place on a detective’s action was that he should
never tempt a man unless he believed him to be
guilty.” This obviously as a set-off to the remarks
of the C.-J., with whom, by the way, Hensman
seldom agrees in judicial decisions. The police
are puzzled to know which precept to observe.
The only course is to tempt evildoers when Hens-
man is to hear the case, but to refrain when it will
come before the C.-J.
Dear Bulletin, — lie forebodings of doom.
Some 23 years ago I was camped on the Home Rule
lead, just then rushed. A large box-tree was
looming over the butcher’s - shop close by, and
every time I went for my meat the butcher
expressed a fear that the tree would some-
day fall and kill him. So much hold had this
idea upon him that he often talked of little else.
At last, he induced a party of men who were work-
ing a piece of ground close by to fell the tree for
the prop-timber the head would yield, he taking
the risk of any damage if it fell on the shop. The
men began by putting in the belly-cut; then the
back one. As soon as this was deep enough, they
drove a wedge in it, to heave the tree clear of the
shop. The butcher was watching the performance,
and as soon as the tree cracked he ran, then
stopped to look, when down came the tree. A
limb struck him on the head, and killed him on
the spot. Moral (apart from fulfilment of pro-
phecy) : When felling a tree, stick to the butt
when she cracks ; or, if you run, don’t stop to
look, but keep going.—J.M.D., Wyalong.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
quyer of all other Australian gems.*
During the hearing of the sensational Mer-
cadool (N.S.W.) alleged dummying cases, an old
letter was read, in which a witness cautioned an-
other witness to go slow and be careful, on account
of a paragraph which had appeared in The Bul-
letin. Not that he took The Bulletin, he
added, as it was a most unreliable paper. The
Bulletin has looked up its files at the date of that
letter, and disinters the following, which, though
it has no bearing upon Mercidool, touches on a
delicate pastoral matter, and may have made the
witness a little restive :
Retrenchment on certain absentee-owned N.S.W. sta-
tions is being carried to a very fine point. Most of the
old-time popular managers have been suspended by a new
species, bred, apparently, to the order of the shareholders,
and matured in the strong-rooms of the financial com-
panies’ offices. In consequence, a day’s ride over the
dreary plains is rendered more depressing than ever by
the now inevitable reception at the station ahead, where
the traveller will be told that “ there’s good picking for
the horse on the travelling-stock route, near Dingo Flat”
—or some such place, where the station-stock have
loafed for months. But one big syndicate have, in
retrenching, hit a snag. Their vast runs have, for
years past, been under the general control of a
manager who had encouraged much land-settlement
on the co.’s leased holdings. Recently, a new manager
came up with a letter from the co., enclosing, to their old
servant many regrets, high testimonials, a bonus and —-
the sack. Taking the lot in the spirit it was meant the
ex-general manager handed over his charge and proceeded
to settle down at one homestead on secured land, telling
his successor, when asked for an explanation, that he was
now going to spell on his run. An investigation by the
now alarmed board of directors showed that their late
manager had, in his many transactions with selectors,
protected his employers from all suspicion by having his
name only inserted in all mortgages and subsequent
transfers, and as an outcome of his zeal the co. is now
expecting to have to pay him grazing-rates whilst the
manager calmly waits for the co. to open its mouth wide
enough to satisfy him. This card is said to be held by-
several other hopelessly-involved runholders when the
screw is put on by their mortgagees.
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
7*
CAPILLAR INE!
Posted (und< r cover)
to any part of Austra
lasia or New Zealand.
price, 10 0
“11l Try It.” ’ Sole Afientu: Thl
Craig & AitUen. 680-632 George-st,
Result.
Sydney
HOW
d dc d
A
ow
THE
BEST
IN THIE
MARKE"
M.WS.C 0
TWELVE HUNDRED ™ WAYS .™
I.l^_,
Sent Host !• r e for 2/0.
C. SMITH & CO., 204 RusSKLii St., MELBOURNE
Business Announcements.
VOLCANIC
Soda Water
Is ABSOLUTELY PURE.
At all the Leading Hotels and Chemists.
The Sydney Volcanic Aerated Water Co.,
Bulletin Lane, Macquarie Place, Sydney.
DEBT COLLECTING.
The Victorian Debt Collecting Agency
101 Swanston St., Melbourne,
Recovers Debts on behalf of Mercantile firms, Professional
men, etc., by a Thoroughly Organised and Effective
System.
Highest References. Correspondence Invited.
& co.,
101 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
WHO’S MAKING THE PACE
IN THE
Bedstead, Bedding,
AND
WOVE-WIEE MATTEASS TEADE?
Why,
Establishedj £awler & Sons, l Telephone,
30 years. ( 612 George-street, Sydney. ) °'
And the reason WHY?
Because
Healthy Bedding being absolutely essential to
cheerful health and length of years, the only quality
they manufacture is the very purest and best.
SsW For All-round Value, LAWLER’S are not to
be beaten.
£3T No ORDER too small or CONTRACT too
large.
lIS’ Contents of LAWLER’S Mattrasses guaran-
teed as represented.
Orders executed prompt to time.
You will never sleep soundly, and in the morn-
ing rise vigorous and refreshed, unless you procure
your Bedstead, Wire Mattrasses and Bedding
from
LAWLER & SONS,
(112 George-street, SYDNEY.
R. P. MORTON,
Special Shirt Maher
And MERCER,
S T R A. TNT ID ,
195 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
-THE-
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Has been THOROUGHLY RENOVATED and
REFURNISHED,
And I ain NOW READY to RECEIVE my
Old and New Friends.
Thos. Asche
(late of Royal Hotel),
PROPRIETOR.
rp H E * “OZ O KT E,”
VVARRNAMBOOL, VICTORIA.
The Coolest Seaside liesort of An tralia.
Testimonial, July 2,1895.—“ Have spent a very plea-
soit ten days at VVarrnambool, and are delighted at the
town and your excellent hotel, the Ozone, where we
have received every attention. Were the qualities of the
place known, many visitors from Sydney, who now sro to
Tasmania, would certainly come here.”—Mr. and Mrs.
Denison Miller, Sydney, N.S. VV.
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
BALMORAL HOUSE
Is the most centrally-situated for sight-seeing in
this delightful and bracing climate. Visitors and
invalids will find every home comfort, excellent
table and attendance. Terms—2 guineas ; 8/- per
day. Private suites, 3 guineas. Apply Manager.
Brighton Hotel,
OXFORD and RILEY STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Arthur Millar ... Proprietor.
SALISBURY HOUSE,
Nicholson-street, MELBOURNE (opp. Exhibition),
Private Boarding Establishment.
(Within Tivree Minut- s of centre of City.)
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors. SPECIAL
TERMS for Families. UNSURPASSED APPOINTMENTS
and Position. Suites, Double and Single Konms, etc.
Miss H. CAPPER, Proprietress.
P*oiiitera 2
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
Leading Vic. Hotels, Seaside Resorts, &c.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
TANKARDS TEMPERANCE HOTJEL,
Cornu- LON?DALE * QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room ; 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Manager.
Publications
Under the patronage qf His Excellency the Governor
IW~ Noted for Celebrities:
CO
&
MA.
—Artist Photographers—
-119 Swanston Street (opp. Town Hull),
MELBOURNE.
Paris Panels, 20/- perdoz.; Cabinets, 11/-
rpHE New ’
Aecordeons, two full sets ol
reeds, DOUBLE action, Price2l/-.
Same, superior lone and finish,
25 . The New AUTOHARP—any
person can play this instrument,
or vamp his own accompaniments
to thousands of souks, without
any know ledge of music whatever
- Price, with 3 Pedals, 2 books of
tunes, &c., 15—; Superior tone and
finish, with 6 Major and Minor
pedals, 25/-. Post Free. The'PHCE-
NlX’ Organette (forpieces, hymns
or dances, worked by the handle).
Best, Stroup and Sweetest Musio
in the world—a child can play it. Price, with 6 popular
tunes, 25/-; large size, 55-. Only at J. ALBERT &
SON, 118 King Street, SYDNEY. Violin, mandoline,
guitar, banjo, cornet, anglo, and concertina catalogue for-
warded Free. NOTICE. —Messrs. J. Albert & Son are
the only musicsellers in Australia charging for all Two
Shilling Pieces, songs and waltzes at 1/9, post FREE.
HENRY FARMERS Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds," “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” IS. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, VV. PAXTON & Co., London,
arid 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
THE GOVERNMENT
#
WEBSTER’S
INTERNATIONAL
, DICTIONARY >
STANDARD
Send for free prospectus
containing: specimen
pages, illustrations and
full particulars
G.&C.MerriamCo.
Publishers,
40 Hunter St.,
Sydney.
SECRETS OF NATURE
REVEALED.
33001 t of KTature.
Guide Marriage Life and Relations of the Sexes,
contains 50 engravings, full and explicit explanation of
the structure and uses of the organsof life and generation
in mankind ; Marriage, its uses and abuses, the rights
and wrongs of Marriage, intendtd especially for the married,
or those intending to many, by Dr. L. M. Byrn, 3 6 ; post,
4 Decameron, 3/-. Heptameion, 3 Radical Remedy
in Social Science, regulating reproduction, with hints on
matters important, necessary to he known by the married,
1- ; post, 12. Artistotle, complete Midwifery, colored
plates 3/6 ; post, 4/-. Venus and Adonis, 1,6. Girl with
three ’pair stays, 1/-; post, 1/3. Rosario, the female
Monk, 2/-. “ Amours of Gustave,” from the Fr< ncti, t/-;
post, L/3. Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, self-defence without a teacher, Is. Rabelais, 2/6 ;
post, 3/-. ,
“A Fatal Sin,” by Balzac, 16, post free. The
Devil in Sydney, or Barmaids, Baldheads, Mashers, etc.,
X/. • by post, 1/2. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free, 7 6 ; send for pamphlet giving full contents Plain
Home Talk, post free. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it
should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 12. Wonderful Song
Book, extra large, 16. How to Mesmerise, Thought lti ad-
ing, Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 16. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated, price 16. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 16.
‘‘The Silent Friend,” illustrated private medical book,
invaluable to all, by Dr. Lamartine, 1,6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards evet invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1 3.
Can you afford to have a large family? Read the
Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted hook, “Fruits of Philo-
sophy,” 1/-; post, 1/2. “ Romance of a Fair Girl’s Bath-
room,” 16, post free. Male Generative Organs, in health
and disease, from infancy to old age, with the treatment
of all their derangements, for every man’s own private
use ; illustrated bv m me ous engravings and colored
plates, by Dr. Hollick, M.D. ; new revised Australian
edition, 26, post free. R. J3E.A.R, Cheap Book
Depot, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Greo- Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 Georok Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Iteta.l Booksellers Si Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies' Work baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
PhotOf/ra )>lis of Kugllull A Colonial Crlrbritirs
A LONDON SUCCESS.
New Coon Song.
OH, HONEY, WILL YOU LUB DIS COON.
Pi ice, 6d.
Also, same price, the popular song, "LOVE'S VESPER
HOUR,” by Lindsay L nnox, and “LOVE'S VESPER
WALTZ,” by Then. Bonlieiir. JpiT ICO-) other SONGS,
DANCES, etc., at 3d. EACH, of all D aleis, or from
Publisheis, >V. J'AXTO* A ««►., 203 Swiinsttm-sf,,
Melbourne, and 1!> Ox lord Street, London.
Citalogues Free.
tv * V
TriSaifeisiiwS^ 7 '
The poor Barmaid having
ii H„i e Id.-, ot supper after
];er h.ud e.y’s work !
Xidv ready, post f ree Is Gd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be bad only of
Mum. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0.. Sydney.
TO COUNTRY NEWSPAPER PRO-
PRIETORS.
rnn QAI r A quantty of Humorous
lUn OALLi Electro Illustrations, singly
or in lots. Proof-sheets and particulars on appli-
cation to
MANAGER, “ BULLETIN,”
24 Pitt Street, Sydney,


The compositor again : “ Companions are
odious.”
Joe Chamberlain is the jingo-hero of the
hour in London. Latest mails mention that Joe’s
appearance in a private-box at the Lyceum caused
wild excitement. The gods started cheering, and
the most warlike members of the downstairs-con-
gregation, “ including several 10s.-occupants of the
stalls,” stood up, just as though the member for
Birmingham were the National Anathema.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
This is the season of thanksgiving-services,
and Pastor Edgar, of Wesley Church (Melb.), has
just gone one better than usual by holding a so-
called Harvest Festival, with horti-agricultural
decorations supplied by the Tucker village-settle-
ment—mostly consisting of tomatoes and cucum-
bers stuck on pitchfork prongs, with an array of
prize-pumpkins on the pulpit. Prayers for rain !
The season’s wheat-estimate under four bushels to
the acre !! A Harvest Festival!!!
Tom Playford evidently still retains some
of his old Australian form. At the Colonial In-
stitute, the other evening, Mr. Hugh Watt (erst-
while member for Glasgow) suggested that Cham-
berlain should take in hand the development of
the Northern Territory of South Australia with
English capital and Asiatic labor. Whereupon
Agent-General Playford remarked that “every
‘globe-trotter' who came pottering around the
colonies knew better than the Australians them-
selves what they wanted, and what they ought to
do with their possessions. He would tell them,
however, what South Australia did not want. She
didn’t want capital, and she didn’t want labor.
Whatever capital was required for promising
development purposes could be raised in the
colony as cheaply as in London. They had done
it before, and they could do it again.” The
Agent-General also emphatically asserted that
South Australia would never permit Asiatic immi-
gration. They didn’t want dearly-bought cheap
labor, and they weren’t going to have the country
overrun with the lower races of mankind. Their
motto was, “Australia for the Australians, and
for Europeans.” P.S. —There is quite a pretty
little history connected with Mr. Watt’s sugges-
tion to Chamberlain.
Horses, Sheep and Cattle Ailments
VETERINARY BOOK free with every bottle, containing full instructions for the
treatment and cure of suffering animals. Insist on having CONDY’S FLUID.
Condy & Mitchell, of London, England, are the sole manufacturers.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists.
Speedily Cured by “ Condy’s Fluid.”
THE PREMIER HOTEL OF AUSTRALIA.
% %
fL 2
i IB «
*•<%■%
.*i-
J 4 >??
%* 9,
5?
,u..#| ■■:;*■*> v. ‘MKaK&ttT.*
|2r ■a^saaav,/:
“THE AUSTRALIA.”
■ff. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
CHARGES
(Per Day)
Inclusive of all Meals and. Attendance.
SINGLE ROOMS—
-12 6, 15 - & 167-
DOUBLE ROOMS-
-25 -, 30/-, 34/- & 36/-
SUITE OF ROOMS—
-40/-, 50/- & 60/-
Special Rates to Permanent Boarders
from
£3 10- PER WEEK.
Extract from Max O'Rell's Book
of Impressions on the Colonies :—
“Sydney has as much right to he
proud of this hotel as her harbor.”
)
■■■
/Fireproof Throughout.
EXCELLENT CUISINE.
Hot and Cold Water in
every Room.
Lighted throughout byJ
Kleetricity. S
EASY RUNNING
U
NEW H
77
SEWING IVIACHINES.
■
Mi
VHi
nmmf
v' 4 . ■. isSXaSL
ms
£s*}««
frmrt
New Homp " Hand Machine.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
NEW NATIONAL &TdEAL
Hand machines
(Made by the New Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATORS
Haying been appoiuted Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4ci.
Journals, 4d.; by post, 6d.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any make.
STYLE Mo. 14.
£9 9s. CASH. £lO 10s. TIME PAYiuKivr.
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY.
Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Oueen Street, Brisbane.
I
Dr. ROBERTS’ OINTMENT, CALLED THE
POOR MAN’S FRIEND, & HIS ALTERATIVE PILLS.
Will cure Wounds of every Description,
Burns, Bruises, Scorbutic Eruptions, & Skin Diseases.
Of all Chemists, BEACH and BARNICOTT, Ltd., Bridport, Dorset, England.
Price, Is. lid., 2s. Pd.. 11s.. and 225. each. ,
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB'S
Cloudy
Household
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Rifreshing as a Turkish Bath.
Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, etc.
Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., London, England,
MANUFACTURERS OF SCRUBB’S ANTISEPTIC SKIN SOAP.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., * LIMITED, SYDNEY.
PERDRIAU & CO-
Rubber Hose, Eureka Hose, Canvas Hose,
FOR
Gardens, Brewers, Steam, Suction,
Eto. , Etc.
Tennis Balls, Rackets, Shoes, &c.
ILLUSTRATED LISTS FREE ON APPLICATION.
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
EROZEJN MEAT EXPORT.
Messrs. BERGL & PR \ BBIN have the honor to inform the pastoralists of Queensland that
they are now able to offer the very best facilities for them to send their surplus stock home. They
can have their stock treated on owners’ account, either at Bowen or Gladstone, and disposed of to
very best possible advantage in England by the SAME FIRM. If treated at any of the other works,
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin will be most happy to take, charge of their shipments on arrival in London,
and are sure that their charges, and especially the PERSONAL attention given to each consignment,
will give satisfaction. For full particulars apply
Messrs. Bergl & Brabbin,
LONDON, LIVERPOOL, etc., ENGLAND. SYDNEY, BOWEN, GLADSTONE
H. HILLIER, Manufacturer & Importer,
135 & 137 Sussex-street, Sydney.
The Best and Cheapest House in the Colony for Vehicles, Saddlery & Harness.
ELEPTIC SPRING SULKIES (as shown), £7 15s.
SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 395. 6d. DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, £6 10s.
AMERICAN SULKIES, 955.
Send for a Catalogue and secure the Bargains. All Saddles Made equal to Ordered Work.
Price from 3S>s. 6d., complete.
W IMPOR TANT NOTICE TO CIGARETTE SMOKERS.
T M nfNTw Ur customers and cigarette smokers generally that the American Tobacco Co.,
, Etd., of N.S. W., who control the sale of cigarettes known under the brands of “Allen and
cT,:XfcX K d “P ,™ LET,?.” r 1 wl» manufacture the colonial ~mil.
suddlvus with an v nfdielr 4 D ' X i ,n ® N °’ lj have K lven us offi cial notice that they will not
! P fnrffll h ?hw i h f American-made cigarettes unless we agree to relinquish the agency held by
us for New South Wales for the world-renowned English firm of W. D. and H. O. WILLS Limited
CL the manufacturers of those popular high-class cigarettes known as ’ ’
... , TEEIRIEIE CASTLES ” and ££ A TsT 75
We have declined to conform with this request, as we feel it would not be to the nterest of
cigaiette smokeis m New South Wales to allow the American Tobacco Co., Limited to monooolise
the whole of the cigarette trade. We, therefore, appeal to cigarette smokers to try the celebrated
als lhree Castles” and “Capstan” Cigarettes,
And compare their quality with that of any other. We are confident that their verdict will be in
_ favor of the
a,li “ L llree Castles” and “ Capstan” Cigarettes
And by smoking these they will prevent any one Company from attempting to dictate what people
should or should not smoke. F
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO. [Agents for W. D. and H. 0. WILLS, Ltd.)
OBSERVE THA. iHE
SIGNATURE
*
A (
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
original Worcestershire
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
retail everywhere.
o esale Agents; Virgoe, Son, and Chapman David Cohen and Co., SYDNEY.


—THE—
SYDNEY FURNISHING HOUSE,
175 PITT STREET
(next King Street).
5}
Artistic
House
Furnishers.
i.w.ciirr,
Jun., Sc Co.
DINING-
ROOM
SUITES
AT
£l4 14s-
Frames made of
best Tasmanian
Blackwood, and
covered with best
Skins.
BEDROOM
SUITES
In Solid Walnut,
£l3 13s.
(Complete).
Economical
House
Furnishers.
J. W. GUFF,
Jun. & Co.
MILES T. CARROLL &. CO.,
Mining and Finance Brokers, Valuators uCr.,
PRACTICAL & RELIABLE FINANCIAL ADVISERS
—IN-
STOCK, SHARES, OR REAL ESTATE.
Trust Money advantageously Invested. Best
Interest and Security obtained.
Experts report on Mines throughout Australia.
70 Queen-st., Melbourne. [Telephone 1603.
On testing, the plant was found to produce
over 351 b. of distilled water for each pound
of coal burned in the boilers, and it is expected
this result will be improved when the plant is
properly housed and protected. The installa-
tion of these plants on the goldfields will be a
great boon to the large population, and it is
expected will reduce the price of water to con-
sumers to one-half the present rates. Mr.
JobsoD is now busily employed in connection
with the water rights of the Company, and
preparing the sites for the erection of the
plants. Messrs. R. C. Anderson, W. R.
MacGregor, H. H. Drysdale, and J. B.
Mackenzie, M.1.C.E., are 1 the directors of the
Company.*
Awarded
Gold Medal,
Chi cago,
1803,
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
WORLD-FAMED
Eucalypte Extract
CUIIES
Couurlis, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis.
Consumption, Influenza, &e.
ASK FOR
Cole mane & Sons’ Eucalypte,
And SEE that you GET IT.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—I*. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
COLEMANE & SONS, Ltd.,
OKAWLIN, near COOTAMUNDRA, N.SAV.
9°. mosL 21 British 2f per cent, consols were
quoted 109 J—a price which y le lds only 2.J per cent, to the
purchasers. If European war is staved off for another
five years the accumulations of capital will quite probably
reduce the effective rate to 2 per cent, or lower F *
* * * *
It is gratifying to learn that the Adelaide man
who struck it so rich in Great Boulders has paid all his
creditors 20s. in the £. Were he in Australia just now those
creditors would banquet him. One of ’em (in Melbourne)
has been raised from penury to comfort by the late insol-
vent s good action.
* * » *
That Victorian officer, who has, so far, evaded
all warrants for his arrest for alleged forgery &c. is
reported to be in Great Britain posing (under’another
name) as an Australian mining expert.
The old yarn re acquisition of Melb. for
blankets, rum, &c., is revived to-day by the recent revela-
tion that a certain Melb. tailor acquired (within the last
three years) interests in certain coalfields, now worth
£lOO,OOO, for a ready-made suit of clothes.
* * » *
One much-advertised Westralian promoter is
said in London to be hopelessly “ busted,” and coming
down ‘ kerwollop. There is no doubt he paid enormous
blackmail to certain mining papers for inspired articles
and pars. The tears dropped by Australian diggers
over his downfall ought to just about lay the dust after a
second Flood.
* * * *
A rather pious Far Northern man “called a
meeting” and assigned after offering his creditors 6s. in
the £. The trustee in the estate had his doubts, watched
the gentleman’s movements, and found him one dark
night unearthing a plant of 600 hides which had been
hidden under waste tan, and had not been enumerated as
assets when the debtor presented his statement to the
creditors. He has to pjiy 20s. in £or face quod.
It will be highly interesting to learn, on judicial
authority, whether, when land-dummying has been skilfully
consummated, “taking care, of course, that we keep
within thefour corners of the Land Act,” such action is not
strictly legal. In short, has not a cute intellect the legal
right to take advantage of the statutory clumsiness of the
Legislature ? This is a question of dry law and not of
ethics. Law is chiefly opposed to good ethics.
* * * *
De Courcy Browne, well-known in the Eastern
provinces, is in Westralia, and is said now to be worth a
score of thousands. He is quietly pulling some political
reform wires, and makes no secret of his aspirations
after the Premiership in a reformed legislature. Lots of
Eastralians will be interested in this item.
* * * *
Nearly all the big Vic. dairy-farmers now pay
their employes only 10s. a week (about 90 hours) for nine
months in the year. One notable exception is David
(Age) Syme, who employs men on his Lilydale estate at
good wages per week of about 60 hours.
* * * *
New-chum braceman, calling down to the men
sinking : “ Hillo, there, below ! Here is the dinymite ye
wanted. Fwill I dthrop id to yez ? ”
* * * *
Now that the Sydney magistrates are so careful
about the renewal of hawkers’ licenses, the police might
devote a little attention to those unlicensed persons who
hawk time-payment jewellery in town and country.
Their ramifications are extensive, and as their goods
are loaded to the extent of fully 80 per cent., they can
afford to pay exs. and make a huge profit as well. When
a purchaser makes default, they insist on the article being
returned, and make no allowance for what has been paid !
Also, many of the canvassers or dealers are only too well-
known to the police, and would never be granted licenses.
* * * - *
Melb. jute speculators badly bitten this last
year, but in view of Govt, passing an Act to spend
£50,000 in wire-netting, there is more excitement amongst
dealers in that commodity than there would have been
eight years ago over Government wanting £2,000,000
worth.
* • * *
The Afghan carrier knows a good thing when
he sees it, and often sees it when nobody else can. Re-
cently a member of a Westralian camel-firm walked into
a Melb. brewery, tendered a cheque for an astonishingly
large sum, and asked to be supplied with its value in beer
at the rate of 4d. per bottle. After partially recovering
from the shock, the manager sent a clerk round to the
bank to enquire re the cheque, and on receiving a favor-
able answer, set to work to execute the order. By work-
ing day and night, and cutting down the supplies of
customers in the city and suburbs, the quantity was duly
delivered and shipped to the West, where it was taken up
by the camel-owners, carried to the goldfields, and re-
tailed at an enormous profit totalling some thousands of
pounds.
* * * *
From a London man : “ The Ashcroft sulphide
matter is going along very well. I understand that they
have ordered the machinery, and Ashcroft will leave for
Australia soon to erect the plant at Newcastle. There is
now a rumor of another process to work sulphides, so you
see the Broken Hill sulphides must be worked sooner or
later. The mining market has greatly improved during
the last few days, with, I think, the Westralian in the
lead. Should it hold as good as it is now there will be
business done again in the near future.”
* * * *
The Mining Journal, Perth : “Many of the
mines around Coolgardie owned by English companies
are duffering, and will duffer still more, from extravagant,
incompetent and careless management.” The Journal
is the paper that in the same issue threatens to extermi-
nate “ ‘wild cats’ and their incubators, and to spare no
expense or trouble in order to spoil the schemes and plans
of the get-rich-any-way gang.” Bad management cannot
duffer a rich mine. “ It’s a poor mine that won’t stand
some bad management,” said a well-known American
manager.
• * * »
“ The only stock which appears to have slumped
here,” writes a Westralian correspondent to a Sydney
paper, “is a parcel from a mine which undertook to
supply gold and building stone. We can stand a lot, but
that was too much. These things do not usually grow in
beauty side by side.”
* • * *
The biggest single sale of stock in one lump at
Melb. was Clarke and Co.’s, in the silver boom, of 2500
Broken Hills for £111,937.
* * * *
The largest entrance-fee ever paid to the Stock
Exchange of Melbourne was £2500 ; the lowest £lO 10s.
Present price of a seat, subject to ballot, about £7OO.
* * * *
The Export Trade Board of Inquiry, instituted
by Vic. Govt., has provided some interesting reading re
ebuttcr-bu. Factory brands are altered, or are shaved
bo^ es ’ butter not intended for export by the
• A,. ne ® bas been shipped without their consent, arriv-
n *,? ? ome cases in the British markets in a discreditable
condition. The butter had been forwarded by the fac-
tories to certain Melb. agents for local disposal. The
agents simply ignored instructions and export .d it, getting
J. per cent, commission on the returns. Certain factories
that suffered in consequence arranged with the Govt,
examiner not to pass their butter unless it had a certain
pnvate mark on the article itself, indicating “ for ex-
port. Consequently, some interesting produce history
is coming to light re bogus brands, inferior butter under
recognised brands, and other tricks of the produce trade
of Victoria.
* * * *
A country-consignor of butter to a firm of Melb.
sa j? B )P® n (to whom he was unknown by sight), was dis-
satisfied with the prices returned as having been realised,
came up to town recently, bought in all his own brands,
at auction, at 7Jd., and, a few days later, received cheque
and account-sales, showing that his butter had realised
otd., less charges, commission, &c. Excuse offered : Two
men of same name, and accounts had got mixed !
«• * * *
Owing to Freetrade, sand-shifting, gold-boom,
or something, N.S.W. trade is looking up. To get fresh
clients, a Sydney business-agent posted a letter to 723
suburban storekeepers, informing them that he had a
buyer for a general store in their locality ; if they were
willing to sell, please forward price and particulars. Next
oay, going to the office as usual, the agent found the road
blocked by a cheese-and-buttery crowd of, as near as his
bulging eyes could estimate, 721 people, and as he made
a wild spring for a passing tram, it was only to butt a new
arrival with the mark of the apron on his vest and to
elbow an old dame scented with the Best Factory.
* * * *
Melbournian : “ Out of 30 men I know, who
have left here for Westralia during the last 18 months,
more than half were thoroughly bad eggs, half-a-dozen
intelligent, honest grafters, and the rest fairly shrewd
men, of fair means. All the bad eggs have done exceed-
lngly well, the shrewd crowd are starving, and the intel-
ligent men are more intelligent than ever, but stone-
broke.”
* * * *
Apropos bailiffs. There is a Melbourne broker,
a real good fellow, who has a fatal tendency to be in the
hands of these seedy persons. The genial broker never
makes any bones about the matter —hails a cab, takes the
bailiff with him, calls on the merchants he (broker) does
business with, exhibits bailiff in cab to merchants, and,
on strength of same, raises enough to satisfy the seedy
one ; then drives home in triumph, and repeats same per-
formance whenever occasion arises.
* * * *
S.S. : Another tight place : Given a venomous-
looking, five-foot black-snake at the bottom of a shallow
shaft, a scared man on the rope, going down, and a deaf
mute at the windlass, what won d you do, presuming you
were the scared man on the rope? You would yell. That
is what my friend did at Lefroy. Failing to fetch the
man on top, he let go everything, and dropped plump on
the “ sarpent.” He lives. * He had luck.
* * * *
One Barrier speculator-squatter has £50,000
looking for a billet. In four years, he drew £200,000 from
the Proprietary, and a few months back he plunked half
of it into two western district (Vic.) properties.
Pritchard Morgan asserts that all his expenses
in Welsh mining, tramming, milling, &c., are down to
ss. 3d. a ton. This he attributes to his £60,000 worth of
machinery and low expenses. W.P.M. is of opinion
that the South African plan of letting Crown lands in
blocks of 200 or 800 acres on lightest possible conditions
would work well on old fields. England makes similar
concessions. " >
♦ * * *
In Vic., so long as you part rent for mining
leases, the Govt, doesn’t care a rap for labor covenants.
On six miles of pegged country around the Buckland and
Wandiligong only three miners are engaged. Rest of the
blocks are waiting for the district boom that may happen
some day. This pernicious lock-up is the ruin of many
promising auriferous districts.
* * * *
A publican near the Londonderry mine, Cool-
gardie, was the author of a rumor of another rich strike
made therein, and, when it proved a hoax, the Golden
Aoe, a local paper, which first published the news, said :
“ It now remains for Mr. to save himself from
being branded a liar by the public by explaining why,
and on what grounds, he wrote the letter in question.”
The Bulletin advises that publican to remark that he
had been reading the golden fables in the Eastern dailies,
and that he was merely practising to become a Coolgardie
hummer.
The special correspondent of the Australian
Mining Standard has started in to boom : —“ The general
impression amongst the knowledgeable people is that Kal-
goorlie is even better than Coolgardie.” Great Scott! it
will need to be. He doesn’t enumerate tile rich Cool-
gardie div.-paying mines. Is there one paying gold-
producer within ID miles of Coolgardie ? If so, name.
Kalgoorlie:—“ The town is crowded with pur-
chasers of property, the recent revival in London being
responsible.” A pity if they have to come away unsup-
plied from a field where there are over 2000 leases, and all
for sale ; and where over 500 applications, it is said, have
already been made for, exemption from labor conditions.
Aug. Harris is said to be arranging for the pro-
duction, at the Drury Lane Theatre, of a panorama of
Coolgardie, for which purpose he has secured £lOO worth
of photos, illustrating life on the fields. As it is hard to
get photos, of men in the act of salting mines (a big
industry out there), an allegorical picture of salting a
bull’s tail might do.
* * * *
Within eight or nine miles of Mount Morgan
(writes a Bulletin correspondent) hundreds of tons of
manganese lie exposed on the surface. It assays up to
about 67 per cent. From £6 to £7 per ton has been offered
for the mineral. It will scarcely be believed that the
Mount Morgan G.M. Co., with this supply at hand, actually
imports Maoriland mineral costing £lO a ton.
* * * *
Much sandalwood has been shipped of late from
New Guinea to China. Exported at £4 a ton, it fetches
nearly £l5 in Chowland. Strange-looking stuff—small,
crooked logs and bits of branches of the most uncouth
description. The Chinese are wonderfully skilful at in-
laying fancy boxes with the rough-looking material,
which they also burn as incense to their gods.
* * * *
In Melb. bankruptcy circles a £ is known as a
“ Slot ” —“ A penny in the slot ” being the usual div.
* » * «
A business-site in Collins-street, Melb., for
which £72,500 was paid during the boom, changed hands
two months since for £lB,OOO.
* » * *
It costs Melbourne Metropolitan Board of
Works £BOOO per year to carry the sewer through
Chirnsides’ Werribee Bark estate—£lBo,ooo at
Chirnsides get the £lBO,OOO plus Yan Yean (wanted
by Board for flushing purposes) all through their estate.
And if Chirnside primus meets a man going through the
estate in the train, he points out to him how the sewage
channelling has ruined the property.
* * * *
It was a small Melb. syndicate, and it bought a
Gippsland mine, chiefly on the representations of a large,
tanned, blaspheming man, with a sugar-bag of specimens.
A few months later, in consequence of things too numer-
ous to mention, the syndicate hired an expert to visit the
mine and report. The expert returned in due course, and
found the syndicate waiting anxiously around an office-
table. Expert dug one hand into his pocket and pulled
out a piece of quartz and laid it on the table ; dug in
another hand and produced another piece, which he laid
beside the first. About jib. of quartz in all. “Ah ! ”
cried the syndicate, “you’ve brought some specimens?”
“No,” replied the expert, sententiously, “I’vebrought
the bleeding reef —in fact, I’ve brought the whole blessed
mine.” That was all the report.
* * * *
The text words of Westralian mining specula-
tion—Exemptions and Extensions.
» * * *
E. D. Miles, the well-known Charters Towers
mining man, was blamed in London for his “ impene-
trable reserve of manner ” and his not caring for news-
paper men. Little wonder. Any man with Miles’ experi-
ence in the working of big, genuine, gold-producing mines
must have a contempt for the English and Australian
press which has fostered wild-catism by publishing lies
wholesale without the slightest discrimination, and with-
out taking the least trouble to ascertain the truth.
* * * ♦
Labor swindlers are exploiting W.A. An
Eastern sharp recently sent 14 engineers to Perth to fill a
£5 billet, snapped up by a local man at half the money.
When the dupes lined up to their prospective boss and
learned the “ have,” their language prostrated him for a
fortnight. It is this kind of thing that calls for Govt,
supervision of labor agencies.
* * * «
Fair sample of Vic. butter-factory results: —
Colac factory, past half-year, paid £16,084 19s. 3d. for
1,232,5681 gals, of milk, which gave 514,3091 b. butter.
Profit, £2367 2s. 7d.; div., 71 p.c. (£126 18s. 4d.); balance
carried forward.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Barney ” Barnato lately tempted Zeb. Lane
with £5OOO a year to manage a group of Rand mines. But
the ex-Boulder man says he has done enough hard graft,
and having plenty of money means to take life easily.
Dick Hamilton, the new Boulder manager, is an old
schoolmate of Lane’s.
» » » *
This column is not prepared to solemnly place
its hand on the dividend list and swear that the fact of an
increasing yield is a sign of increasing prosperity. Gold-
production is not necessarily a remunerative pursuit, and
a really prosperous community might easily consider its
goldfields as nothing better than a fall-back in bad times.
If there were more Long Tunnels and less Wealth of Ex-
pectations—more Mount Morgans and less Plunderderries
—a different tune might be worth the singing, but when
the call-list outweighs the div.-list we deceive ourselves
and the truth is not in us, moreover we are telling lies, by
saying that gold-mining is a bulwark of national pro-
sperity.
* * * *
“ The most curious thing that ever happened to
me,” said an old Gippsland prospector to a Bulletin man,
“was one time about five years back when me an’ my mate
was flood-bound on this hill for more’n a week, with
nothin’ to eat but onions. One afternoon, when we was
moonin’ about, cursin’ our luck an’ the water, an’ every-
thin’ in sight, we tumbled across the bones of a man.
Near by was his watch, an’ in the case of it was scratched:
‘ Not a drop of water for three blazin’ days. Lost.—B.
Johnson.’ We didn’t curse the water any more.”
*♦_ • *
A Kurnalpi incident recorded by a couple of
returned Maorilanders : Two mates were at work, one
shovelling, the other operating the shaker. Suddenly
the man working the gold-dish slipped his hand stealthily
therein and back again to his pocket—but not quick
enough to dodge the shoveller. Doubt entered the mind
of one as the other pocketed his hand. “ What have you
got, Jack?” “Nix.” “ You’re a liar—out with the nug.,
I saw you!” “ Liar yourself—for there’s not a grain.”
Then the shoveller called a rally, and the excitement of a
trial soon gathered a crowd, but what broke Jack up was
the hurrying forward of a champion hard-face nursing a
rope. Then the shaker passed over the nugget and was
told to “get.” He got.
A Melb. lady, the other day, bought
“cheap” from a man at her back-door a mat
which seemed a good match for the one she
had at the front. A quarter of an hour later she
found that the match was perfect—she had bought
her own mat, which the vendor had brought round
from front to back.
A Bulletin correspondent: “To the shame
of Australians be it said, the finest quality of
eucalyptus oil used for chemical purposes in these
provinces is being imported from California and
Algeria. I make this statement on the authority
of the man who, notwithstanding that he is a
Government official, has, next to Baron Von
Mueller, done more than any other man to make
the commercial and hygienic value of the eucalyp-
tus known to the world.”
Dear Bulletin, —Edward Macdowell, once
Solicitor-General of Tasmania, mentioned as hav-
ing lived at St. Helena, is not the only Austra-
lasian legislator of note who has resided on that
lone Atlantic rock. F. J. Moss, late Maoriland
M.H.R., and now British Resident at Rarotonga,
and “Tom” Dick, a minister of the Atkinson
(M.L.) Government, both lived at St. Helena as
youths. Dick, a very dour-looking Scot, is said
to have acted as cicerone to the sepulchre of
Napoleon, in which occupation he had gained
his serious cast of countenance, while frequent
utterance of the formula “This way to the
to-o-mb ” had given to his intonation a strongly
lugubrious flavor. Strangely enough, Moss was
also a serious-minded person, prone to pessimism
in politics, and nicknamed in consequence “Cas-
sandra. ” —J. A. P.
The latest-suggested site for the Federal
capital is in the northern part of the Flinders
Ranges (S.A.). Water is obtainable in abun-
dance ; the country is elevated, the climate reason-
ably good, and the district is connected by rail
with Port Augusta. Augusta is the most central
port in Australia; it lies at the head of a long gulf
and is so much the nearer to the far interior,
thereby materially shortening land carriage ; and
when Federation comes it should grow to be the
greatest shipping port in this continent. Therefore
the Flinders Range, with this port behind it, has
some good points as the site of a F’ederal city.
But the ideal sight for that city would be right on
the plateau of the M‘Donnell Ranges, if geologists
will only guarantee the needful water - supply.
Then the capital would be situated at a great ele-
vation almost in the mathematical centre of Aus-
tralia, and the building of a city there would
create a boom in the lost-dog town of Oodnadatta,
and make the Rockhampton railway start out due
west with renewed energy, and give a big lift to
Barcaldine and Thargomindah, which want a
lift badly. Moreover, it would be the very hardest
capital in the world for any invader to reach,
which is about the most important consideration
of all.
Water Supply for West Australian
Goldfields.
A test trial was made, the other day, at the
works of the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Ltd., South Melbourne, of a very extensive
plant designed for distilling water for domestic
use from salt and impure water. Four plants
similar to the one tested have been constructed,
and they will be shipped immediately and
erected respectively at Coolgardie, Kalgoorlie,
Menzies, and White Feather townships. Each
plant is designed to condense 15,000 gallons per
day, but on the trial they easily produced
20,000 gallons of pure water from sea-water.
Water supply is a serious matter on the West
Australian Goldfields: the principal, in fact,
only supplies obtainable are found in wells and.
so-called lakes or salt marshes. This water is
intensely salt, containing on an average 10 per
cent, salt, and, in some cases, as much as 15
and 20 per cent. To render this fit for use as
drinking water it has to be distilled, and the
appliances hitherto used are of the most primi-
tive kind, consequently the supplies obtainable
are very costly and erratic, the price vary-
ing from 4d. to Is. per gallon, according
to the amount of competition. Owing to
the growth of several towns and increasing
population the demand is getting very large
and a good opening offered for the installation
of large and economical plants. To meet this
demand a Company was promoted in Melbourne
under the title of the West Australian Gold-
fields Water Supply, Limited, and was fully
subscribed and registered in Melbourne early in
January with a paid-up capital of <£75,000 in
150,000 shares of 10s. each. Mr. Chris. Jobson,
M.1.C.E., late chief of the Water Supply
Department in the Government of West Aus-
tralia, was secured as Managing Engineer, and
the construction of the whole of the necessary
plant was placed in the hands of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, Ltd. The plant
is constructed on the Multiple Effect System
and consists of two locomotive pattern boilers
each of 100 h.p., a series of six vertical evapo-
rators, temperature exchanger or brine feed-
heater, large atmospheric condenser, brine feed
pumps, air and circulating pumps, and stor-
age tanks for salt and fresh water each of
20,000 gallons capacity. In operation steam
is raised in the boilers and conveyed into
the first of the series of the evaporators, which
contain a number of vertical healing tubes,
through which the salt water circulates. The
lower portion of the evaporator is a large salt
chamber, and will hold about half-a-ton of salt.
The boiler steam on the outer surface of the
tubes rapidly boils the salt water circulating
within them, which passes off into the upper
chambers as steam. The salt left behind settles
in the lower or salt chamber, and the boiler
steam as fast as it is condensed is automatically
returned to the boilers so as not to contaminate
the drinking water. The steam given off by
the boiling of the salt water in the first evapo-
rator is conveyed by a system of pipes and
valves to the second evaporator, and in turn
boils the salt water contained therein and so in
rotation to the last of the series, which is in
open connection with the large atmospheric
condenser. All the steam produced in the
several evaporators is collected by automatic
traps or separators into a pipe as fast as it is
condensed into water. This water has a tem-
perature much above boiling point, and is
passed into the temperature exchanger. This
apparatus is constructed like a surface con-
denser, and contains a large number of tubes
through which the hot water circulates and
then on the atmospheric condenser by a duplex
direct-acting steam pump, and by it the con-
densed water is pumped from the large pipe-
coils forming the condenser, and finally delivered
into the elevated storage salt-water tank.
From this tank it is circulated and allowed to
drip over the surface of the coils of the con-
denser, cooling the water and vapor therein
and being itself heated up in the process. It
then runs into a tank, with which the brine
feed-pump is connected. This pump raises
the water and forces it through the outer casing
of the temperature exchanger or feed heater,
where it is further heated up by the hot con-
densed water. From thence it is conducted in
pipes (almost at boiling temperature) and fed
into the several evaporators, to be converted
into steam and form fresh water, leaving its
salt deposits in the salt chambers. When
the salts accumulate in the chambers, one
of the evaporators is shut off and the
remaining moisture evaporated by opening
the connection to the vacuum in the con-
denser. A large cleaning door is fitted on
the bottom of each salt chamber, and when the
salt is dried this door is opened and the salt
dropped into a hopper waggon running on a
line of iron rails below, and conveyed away to
the dump. The operation of cleaning out the
evaporator occupies about 20 minutes, and it is
immediately filled with fresh brine and set to
work again. All the other evaporators are
cleaned out in the same manner in rotation
without stopping or interfering with the work
of the rest of the plant.
In distilling water it is deprived of all its
impurities and air, consequently it is tasteless
and somewhat nauseous. To remedy this the
condensed water is forced by the air-pump
through a filter-tank filled with broken lime-
stone rock, from which it takes up a little of
the lime. From the filter it is sprayed from a
height of a few feet, and falls in a shower into
the reservoir tanks, being re-aerated thereby.
Although apparently a complicated piece of
mechanism it is in reality simple in construction
and easily handled. The feeding of the brine
into the evaporators and the collection of dis-
tilled water from them are quite automatic
in operation.


Soap .Makers
BRmr. REd r
By Special Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
SI
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince <* Wales
A Yarra Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The usual little knot of Yarra rowing enthusiasts
was gathered together in front of Princes Bridge
boatsheds one Sunday autumn morning some 10
years back, while others were out pulling on the
river.
Gilbert C— —, a popular Melbourne athlete, full
of life and frolic, was the last man to come in.
By some means his boat upset, but, being an excel-
lent swimmer, the mishap occasioned no anxiety to
his companions. He began to swim in, pulling the
boat along with him, when suddenly he threw up
his arms and called for help, while the boat drifted
away. Those on the bank only laughed ! “ Some
more of Gilbert’s fooling,” jocularly remarked one
of his brothers—* 1 he wants to get us in after
him ; ” and no one moved. He went under, and
on reappearing repeated his calls for help. More
bantering was the only response. C sank
again, and, as he rose this time, his terrified face
and choking cries forced on them the truth : he
had been seized with cramp and was drowning.
Then ere they had time to act he disappeared
altogether!
Two hours later, his lifeless body was dragged
out of the water before the horrified brothers and
friends to whom he had vainly begged for life,
and who had seen him drown without offering the
slightest assistance. “My God ! ” they in one
voice groaned, “ we thought he was only joking ! ”
It was April Fool’s Day /
W.J.H.
Kirton, M.L.A., orating at an A.N.A.
meeting, said that the Australian continent had
been designed to be occupied by one homogeneous
people, and he believed that people was the grand
old Anglo-Saxon race. Designed by whom ? The
Almighty, apparently. In the minds of most
Britishers and colonial silken-bond spouters the
world is ruled by the firm of God, John Bull and
Co.—or perhaps it would be more correct to say
John Bull, God and Co. The British idea of the
Supreme Being is a deity with a round fat face
and curly hair like London Punch’s typical
Englishman. Kirton loftily ignored the Celtic
and other elements of the Australian population,
who are as much Anglo-Saxons as they are Turks
or Tartars.
Dear Bulletin, —So “ Thorold W.,” in
answer to “ Dr. Brigham Brown,” asserts that the
“ man who lusts does not fight.” Also, that “in
warfare the clean man is always first in courage. ”
Both of which assertions are eminently moral and
edifying, but unfortunately not true. The Spanish
soldier of tlxe 16th century was the first warrior
in Europe, and perhaps the most libidinous-wretch
on the face of the earth. Schiller tells how the
Spanish regiments marched overland to the
Netherlands, accompanied each one by a regiment
,f loose women, who were actually uniformed and
dficered according to their charms and consequent
ixpectations. Note also Wallenstein’s troops in
the Thirty Years’ War ; the Swedish soldiers after
the death of Gustavus Adolphus ; the licentious
but undoubtedly courageous Normans, Gascons
and others who came to England under the banner
of the Conqueror. Personal courage belongs
almost as often to the lustful Bashi-Bazouk as to
the chaste martyrs who face and defy the courte-
sans of Nero and the lions of Domitian. —P.
Lcftiu.
Dear Bulletin, —A question for your
naturalists. Some weeks ago I visited Sydney,
and the day before I left Melb. the cat which
presides over our storeroom added to the popula-
tion by one. I stopped away a fortnight, includ-
ing travelling, and, on my return, discovered that
pussy had just produced another kitten. I further
found that during my absence four others had
arrived at irregular intervals. I may add that
this is not the first time the cat has behaved in
this extraordinary way. On a previous occasion
she produced a litter, one every few days of all
three weeks. Perhaps this comes within the pro-
vince of Dr. Brigham Brown.—McG-.
Victoria possesses, according to Gerard
Krefft and Prof. M‘Coy, nine snakes whose bite is
often fatally venomous, three whose bite is tech-
nically venomous but not fatal, and five whose
bite is non-venomous. The truly venomous are
the grey, the brown, the black, the tiger, the cop-
perhead, the black-bellied, the black-and-white
ringed, the death adder, and the brown pseudechys.
The technically venomous are the little whipsnake,
the white-lipped snake and the double-hooded
furina. The non-venomous are two “blind
snakes” —Preiss’s and Schmidt’s—the green tree
snake, the carpet snake, and the blackish Aus-
tralian worm snake.
Dear Bulletin, —A recent wire from
Tweed River, N.S.W., published in the daily
papers, stating that a man had been fined for con-
veying a few friends over the river in his skiff,
advertises a grievance under which the country
people have long suffered. In all parts of N.S. W.
where the Govt, or Municipal Councils lease out
the ferries, the ferryman insists, and his conten-
tion is upheld by law, that no private individual
may convey in his private row-boat anyone but
the members of his own family. If he pulls over
a friend or acquaintance, he makes himself liable
to the police court, and possibly gaol. Within
several miles of a ferry, also, a drover is not
allowed to cross a mob of bullocks without paying
so much a head. Often a man has to go a mile or
more out of his road simply to satisfy the craze of
the ferry-lessee for unearned money. —Yours,
R. M.
“It was ail through Mary Jane ; she
wouldn’t come home,” was the report of the lead-
ing character in the Windsor (Melb.) tragedy, the
other day. Mary Jane was the usual sensational
Australian girl, and her little romance had far-
reaching consequences. Last May Mrs. Dales
died at Windsor, leaving a husband, Mary Jane
(aged and two younger children. A little
later Mary Jane broke out in the usual romance
of the small Australian heroine and ch rged her
father with the usual kind of “ assault ” (when the
E nglish boy wants romance he runs away to sea ;
when the Australian boy wants romance he goes
“up country;” and when the Australian girl
wants romance she charges somebody with
“ assault.” What the English girl does when she
wants to break out as a heroine, Tu s Bulletin
doesn’t remember). Mary Jane’s case was re-
pudiated by the doctor, which was very weak
evidence either way, but she bolted to the
house of a relative and woUldh’t return. Then the
crazed and worried old man called on h :r with an
ultimatum: if she didn’t come borne and care for
the children he would kill them, as lie “couldn’t
bear to see a stranger looking after them.” Mary
Jane still. refused, so he trampe l.st adJy hours
washed the two children, put them to bed, and
then drearily demolished them with a carving-
knife. A few minutes later he met the lamented
Mary Jane lighting at full speed for the parental
roof, and told her that she was just too late, then
he gave himself up to the police and reported
briefly: “It was all through Mary Jane: she
wouldn’t come home.” The cussedness of Mary
Jane.
The matter that will comprise “ Old Mel-
bourne Memories, ” the subject of “ Rolf Boldre-
wood’s ” next book, was originally published m
the Australasian of the early eighties.
In a N.S.W. probate case the other day
a point arose which could only be settled by
accepting as true the statement contained in a
letter written some 50 years ago by the man who
alleged he saw Fisher’s ghost. If his statement is
accepted as true in a court of law, then why not
accept his story of Fisher?
Manager Drury, of the Q.N. Bank, lately
deceased, was identified with Queensland from the
day it first became a province. He was, first of
all, branch manager for the Bank of Australasia,
and was a bad failure in that capacity. He was
for years the boss dude and the boss fighting man
of Brisbane, and his gold-rimmed eye-glass,
patent-leather boots, artful-looking hair, his cane,
his lisp, his “ haw,” and his general air of you-be-
damnedness made up a spectacle for the gods.
Once in the early days he was pervading the
street in his usual way —Drury didn’t walk ; he
pervaded —with all his clothes on and the scent-
bottle emptied over them, to catch the Ipswich
coach. His arrogant poodle was there also, and
the faithful animal dodged into a butcher’s shop
and proceeded to wipe its feet on the meat. The
butcher kicked it out. Drury looked on and said
“haw.” Then he took off his gold-rimmed eye-
glass and again said “ haw.” Then he stepped in
casually, hit the large, brawny butcher everywhere
at once, blackened his eyes, flattened his nose,
trailed him several times over the meat, said
“ haw ” once more, and lounged away. And he
didn’t even disarrange his beautiful hair in the
encounter. Drury conducted the bank mostly
with his fists, and his chief idea of banking was
to hit out straight. Once a squatter with a big
overdraft applied for more accommodation;
droughts and bush fires and other troubles had
struck him heavily and he was in a tight place.
Drury refused any further advances. Then the
squatter went over his tale again, and Drury still
refused. The squatter explained further at great
length, and still the .Q.N. Bank would not part
with a cent. Then the man of wool rose on his
two prodigious legs and called Drury a
’’ and several other gaps and hiatuses,
and also described him as a dashed, degraded
parenthesis and a gory full-stop and the
son of large numbers of animals. Two minutes
later a banker and a big overdraft were
doing a most fearful free-fight in the back
premises, and in a quarter of an hour the
squatter was so completely tame that he
would feed out of the hand if necessary.
Drury was also celebrated for having licked the
largest Irishman in Brisbane in the course of an
election shindy in a hotel —in fact, most of his
fin ancial record consisted in smashing all manner
of antagonists, in all manner of places, for good
reasons or bad. But at last he grew old and fat
and dispirited, and he muddled his bank, despite
lavish Government support, on the rocks in '93,
and after that luckless year Drury hardly hit any-
body except the State Treasury—or at least not
hard enough to make a serious impression.
A Spieler.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ When a man sidles up to me as if he was going
to blackmail me,” said the Man-About-Town to a
friend, “and asks me in a sneaking whisper if
I’ll be kind enough to give him some assistance
towards getting a bed or a meal and says that
he s been sleeping out for a fortnight, and hasn’t
had a bite for 24 hours —he generally gets nothing ;
but when a man stops me straight and says he’s
stumped, and wants a bob—or he’s thirsty and
wants a drink —he’s just as likely to get half-a
crown out of me as not.”
The friend said, “ Just so.”
Just then a robust-looking unemployed, with the
face of a comedian, brought up alongside the city
man and said in a hearty, independent tone :
“ I say —stand us a drink, boss ! ”
The “ boss” smiled and stood him half-a-crown.
The friend smiled, too.
“ That’s the sort of a man I like to help,” said
the Man-About-Town. “There’s something of a
man about him yet, poor devil. He’s one of those
sort that keep their lips stiff, and hold up their
heads, and look the world in the eyes through it
all.”
The friend smiled some more.
‘ ‘ What are you grinning at ? Hey ? ”
“ Well, I know that man. He never drank a
drop in his life ; but he’s the champion glutton of
the Svdney bummers. The only money he ever
earned honestly was in eating eggs for a wager.
g ee !—watch him !—he’s going into that restaurant
now for a feed. The landlord will be sorry for his
custom before he’s done.”
“ The infernal spieler ! ” said the Man-About-
Town, “come and have a drink ! ”
H.L.
The one person buried under a pulpit in
Australia was George Lang, brother of the
belligerent doctor, who, having taken no incon-
siderable part in building the old Scots Church,
Sydney, was interred in the historic structure.
The Easton divorce - case is the most
peculiar in Montagu Williams’s “ Recollections.”
Inderwick was for Lord Euston, the petitioner,
Williams for Lady Euston. She was a woman of
doubtful character at the time of her marriage,
having been keeping house for Cooke, a well-
known circus man. Euston soon got disgusted,
and came to Australia (as private sec. to a S.A.
Governor) for a time. Returning to England, he
sued for a divorce, on the ground that Lady
Euston was a bigamist. Williams apparently
proved that her husband, one Smith, was lost in the
London wreck before the Euston marriage, but
Inderwick managed to fetch the real Smith from
Maoriland. Nevertheless, Williams played the
trump-card, by proving Smith to be a bigamist
when he married her. So she remained Lady
Euston.
Gents : You have heard of our Pound
Suits ? Well, order one. Send your size along,
and we will send the suit, securely packed,
to any part of New South Wales for One
Pound. No extra for postage or carriage.
Address your letters to Hordern Brothers, 203,
2Jo, 2D7, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHam’s
T?°^. Pj ' limis and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
• Tj e f S T P ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, -Losk; of Appetite, Shortness of Breath, Cosriveness, Blotches on the Skin, Disturbed
P V an £ all Nervoils and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no‘fiction. Every sufferer is
one Box of these Pills - and they win be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM b PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health,
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
They
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act, like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing hack the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud Of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts ’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beenham’s Pills have the Laraest Bale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Kverywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is lid, and 12s 9d each.
WONDERFUL IMAGINATION .
4
%
i
m
Mrs. Pry : “ Why , JjV. riding a bicycle, I see! For your health, I
suppose ! ”
Mr. Fats :*• Yes ; and it’s wonderful how much weight I’ce lost. Don't
you notice the difference ? ”
Oil -1
fey
oCo°j
0
BY
NEIiORK&BROOKLYN tobacco c q
CLEVELAND STREET SYDNEY
Semper Eadem
” Which, literally translated, means "ALWAYS
TIIE SAME:.
THIS IS WHY
The “LION” BRAND.
I defy &ll
to
Approach
if.
9
iw:
t
Lion
4*
ND
a-
$
JS
mu
&
m
&
'offices CiAfUtfceS?
. frVMKJ tCCAIT§ T
Of Confectionery is so no^nl^vr.
ONLY THE FINEST INGREDIENTS USED. THEY ARE THE GREATEST
FAVORITES WITH THE CHILDREN.
M aim fa ctured Only i»y
Manufacturing 1 Confectioner.
145 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH ?
A DOSE W ILL RELIEVE IT.
w HAVE YOU A COLD ?
A DOSEat BEDTIME WILL REMOVE II
ESTAB. 21 YEARS,
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold,
ry itfor Whooping-Cougii
ijleptiinL 0 ? 1 " Lu . n £ T onic as < * one wonders for me in stopping my cough and
uouS.Tn h ,® ung3 ‘ 11 certain, y « a wonderful medicine. I have spent
pounds, and all to no good, before I tried it.”
ADA FLETCHER, 146 Lawson Street, Darlington.
IMntdge’s
vJQmgTonic.
Your Lung Tonic I have used for years. I think it my duty to let
n i hers know how valuable a medicine it is for the cure of colds. I have found
, " v aluable benefit from it, and could not carry on my profession without it.”
M. BIBBERO, Professor of Swimming, 410 Mile End Road, London
I 7
it for Consumption
Try it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prepared by
W.T. OWBRiDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. LJd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Patent.
‘ Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
%
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
“TALES
of tlxe
Price 1s
CONVICT SYTEM.”
Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


m
y S
CELEBRATED
S'/
>.*N
r*4
1
col
'S&J
W: '
***rm*9m&
ryS*2}(m
iW*MW3*.L
itwgg
T.-H-E.
BrilisiiSoldiersFavoui'ile
A&eaiys ' » GqfWINGO
HAIi tS h
*6 npALES op thk CONVICT SYSTEM.”
“Hemmoor” Cement (GUARANTEED GOVERNMENT TEST).
HARDWOOD (best, Northern).
GALVANISED IRON, “W.S. Crown” Brand. “ BOSTWICK’S” Pat. Collapsible Gates
PIG, BAR and SHEET IRON, and TIN PLATES.
' St. Pancras Co.’s ” Pavement Lights. "Snow” Patent Pumps. “ Boyle’s” Ventilators
“ Garrick’s” Steam Cranes. Best Indian Cigars, “ Mariposa” Brand. "Bush’s Pat.
Glazing and Zinc Work. ALWAYS IN STOCK AND to ai;i:ivk.
Sole Agents : SCOTT, SIB2ALD & CO , 20 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
GrOlf. Golf. Golf.
“Silvertown” Golf Balls, Golf Bag’s,
—AND —
“Jacobs” Patent Golf Club Head.
Made of Best Quality Grutta Percha. Thoroughly Hardened. Impervious to Wet.
The most economical Club Head made. The weights to meet all requirements THOROUGHLY
embedded. Improvement on all others. Perfect imbalance.
Drivers, Bulgers, and Brasseys for Bight and Left Handed Players.
NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS. UNANIMOUSLY POPULAR.
Most important departure from all existing Clubs. The face is corrugated, or marked, as a
Golf Ball, ensuring straighter and longer drives. Fitted on Shaft complete, 12/6
The India Rubber, Gutta Percha
& Telegraph Works Co. Ltd.
Sydney Branch : 283 GEORGE STREET (facing Hunter-street).
EPPS’S
GRATEFOL —COMFORTING
coco
SCENT.”
H.R.H. The Duchese of Yurfc,
WHITE ROSE.
“The Sweetest of Sweet Odours*’*
Delightfully and delicately fragrant,
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS*
ATKINSON’S
1% THE
ONLY' GENUINE
Perfume, Toilet; Powdery Soap, Tooth Powder*
Sachets, &- all other- specialities with this
“• charming ” odour, of all Dealers through-,
(jut the World & of the Manufacturers—.
f. & E. ATKINSON, 24, Oldßond St.,London,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD
Pioneers
OF
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE. The CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which
The FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more).
has done so much for the colony and colonies). REFRIGERATION. ICE-MAKING.
Pioneers
OP
f ihe Company sells only the very best articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the City Depots (refreshment)
j 92 KIKTG STREET
| 23 ROYAL ARCADE
for AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for Afternoon Teas for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
Agents
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Everywhere. H. PATESON, MANAGER.
KNOWLES STEAM PUMP WORKS.
Pumps in StocK of all Classes.
Boiler Feeding.
Tank Filling.
Mining.
Circulating.
Refrigerating.
Water Works.
Drainage.
BK I
SINKING
Artesian Well
Salt Water.
Sewerage.
Tannery.
Acid.
Oil Refinery.
Marine.
foi_ Australasia : Parke & Lacy Company Limited. Sydney.
DTJTT FR
Win. W alker, Sons, and Bartholomew, Xitd.,
Are now showing their NEW STOCK of
Artistic
At Bunhill House, George-st., Sydney
(nest David Jones)-
PASSAGES
Interpreters en route.
Trouble Saved.
No Commission Charged.
Information Gratis.
Melbourne: 269 Collins-street.
Sydney : 4 Hunter-street, etc., eta
B
OOKED
TO ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
By
ALL LINES.
ALL CLASSES
At Lowest Rates.
Intending Passengers should apply to
THOS. COOK & SON.
.P. R. LARKIN, IMPORTER of Wines, Spirits and Beers
P.R.L. wishes you a Happy New Year, and invites your attention to tP f 11
ENGLISH A. PS taken from his New Special *° the f ° lloW,Dg priCeS ~
OUINESs s ENGLISH STOUT.
Foster’s Ale
M‘Ewan’a Ale
Younger’s (Monk)
Bass’s (bot. by Read Bros.)
Tennent’s (new Brew)
Jeffrey’s „
Prestonpan’s „
doz. qts., at 9 27/- ease.
„ pts. ~ 6-, 36- ~
.. qts- „ 96,38 -
>. pts. „ 6 6,45- „
.. 9>s- 37 6 „
„ qts. „ 99, 39/- „
” P ts ‘ •• '-•12 - „
.. qts. „ 7 6,30 -
„ pts. „ 56,3 S 6 „
.. qts. „ 7 3,29/- „
qts. ~ 73,29 - „
3
6
4
7
4
4
6
4
7
4
4
P. R. Larkin,
fcs? Send for Special Price-list for
Whyte and Mackay’s Whisky 43/- "cW
Prince of Wales' Hotel and Refreshment Rooms,
778 to 784 GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
