

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPIOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Smoke- TWO SEAS Tobacco,
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MAET.
A
% >
<RAckAJocK>
°
•v
V
R. A. HER V BY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE A. CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Huston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbbnt & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Tllvstrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ U|iu & Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything G-ood. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
POMMERY or DRY MONOPOLE CHAMPAGNE, quarts 10s, pints ss.
GLENLIVET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart ss. 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WIN E EOR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE and MARKET STS.,
SY33KTEY.
Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
Before visiting the Of/ wrireto the Manager for
<3ri of Tariff, (orrejpondence promptly attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
BfIISBiILKrES.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETEEMANN,
PROPAIKTOB.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
TjHUE - -
(aros^oorHot^l,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYDNEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
7]cU//Q/U
»RJED BIRD
Ridden by MARTIN, KELLOW, and other Champions.
Best
icycle
uilt
THE
5^
m
Australian Branch:
64 King Street,
Sy dlrrey.
Depots-
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Agents Everywhere.
Use “Pioneer 99 Sole Leather*
SUPPORT YOUR OWN
PEOPLE
BY ENCOURAGING
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
OUR GOODS
ARB
Tanned & Made
IN N.S.W.
20 per cent. CHEAPER than
Imported.
the best in the world.
J, C. LUDOWICI & SON, Ltd.
TANNERS.
162 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Tannery: Lane Cove River.
Visitors to
= Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence ill per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
Novelty
. . iQtrodlicios Co.
A PERFECT PICTURE. -New Method, without
chemicals, lenses, baths, sunlight, or flash - powders.
Carried in vest-pocket ready for instant use day or night.
A beautifully-finished Picture every minute. Complete
Apparatus, with impression slips, One Shilling- (post-paid).
13 Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY.
Poverty Pointers j
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
ECOBA.R.T.
JJ3JSS; —
HADLEY’S ORIENT HOTEL.
A. C. Hadley, Proprietress.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
lx. Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Money - Orders
ISSUED BY THE
Cheque Bank Intd.
ARE CHEAPER than
ORDINARY Money Orders,
—AND—
Are Cashed by 25,00'Q Banks
all over the YY r oi4d.
Apply for Handbooks.
JAS. MALCOLM,
Gen. Af/ent.
135 Fltt-st., Sydney (near G.F.0.)
FROSSARD’S CAVOUR CK3ARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Yol 18.—No. 907. j
[Saturday, July 3, 1697.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Gr 1
CO.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin) ; price. Is. (id. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
IiULLitTIN , by'Price Warunj': price, 25.: post-free,
2s. 6(1.
MOS YN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d. }
posted, 2s. tod.
Write to v.s for any Booh or Magazine you want.
A. £ STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT.
Authors advised. MS. criticised and edited.
Publication arranged for.
Expert assistance in matters literary and artistic..
Confidential commissions undertaken.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
TH€ P6CLARATION
.... OF INPEPENPEHCE
was signed 109 years ago, and the anniversary of it is a day celebrated by all
Americans. It should not be overlooked by Smokers. It was the day that
made America, and America grows the Tobacco from which is manufactured
the choicest brand of Cigarettes, your favorite
. . . . CAMEOS.
THE RED PAGE.
H. H. Lusk, the barrister who for a short time
represented a Maoriland constituency in the
House of Representatives, and who also practised
in Sydney—and stopped suddenly—has found favor
with the editor of an American magazine, ‘ The
Forum.’ To its pages he has contributed several
articles on M.L. politics; and in the April num-
ber he is starred as ‘ Hon. Hugh H. Lusk, ex-
member of the New Zealand Legislature.’ While
in N.S. Wales Mr. Lusk competed for a prize
offered by the Education Department for
school history of the province. There were nine
other competitors, and a board composed of the
late Under-Secretary for Education (E. Johnson'
and two of the Department’s chief officials (J. C.
Maynard and F. Bridges) accepted Lusk’s history
and awarded him ,£450. This was in 1890. The
work was set up in type at the Govt. Printing
Office, and this type has been kept standing ever
since at great expense while the Department has
been tinkering at the book without daring to pub
lish it —seemingly because a gross blunder was
made in approving it as fit for use or publication
in the first instance. The total cost of the ‘ his
tory ’ to date is over <£looo ; and all the available
evidence goes to show that if it ever does reach
publication seven years of ‘revision’ will have
altered it so completely that Lusk will be unable
to recognise his own handiwork.
* * * *
The history of the ‘ history ’ is a pathetic recorc
of departmental incapacity. The adjudicators
appear to have been informed of their error soon
after the book was put in type, and various Minis-
ters of Education have had hard work to keep
within reasonable distance of the truth while ex-
plaining matters to objectionable Parliamentary
querists. The book was first ‘ revised ’by two of
the adjudicators, Messrs. Maynard and Bridges;
and one would like to know if it is true, as re-
ported, that these gentlemen received fees of
25g3. and lOgs. respectively for their trouble.
Then a schoolmaster, Mr. G. Metcalfe, was
asked by Minister Carruthers to read the work;
and on finding style and matter alike lamentable
this gentleman is said to have condemned it with-
out fee and utterly. Inter alia, Lusk’s ‘history’
is declared to have stated that no seals are now
found on the Australian coast (he had apparently
never heard of Seal Rocks near Port Stephens,
Seal Rocks in Western Port, or the seal rendezvous
at Julia Percy island and Houtman’s Abrolhos);
that the first fleet called at Cape Yerde islands
(instead of the Canaries); that Leichhardt, on his
Port Essington expedition, started from Sydney,
proceeded North and wandered about on the Dar-
ling Downs, eventually losing himself, but return-
ing to Brisbane after having completely failed ;
and so on. (Of course Leichhardt (lid start from
Sydney, but in a vessel, just as he had left Ger-
many in a vessel.)
* • * •
In the course of time Minister Carruthers was
succeeded by Miuister Suttor, who also declined
to approve the ‘ history,’ but took it away with
him to Bathurst for a few months, in the hope
that mountain air might invigorate its constitu-
tion. Minister Garrard, however, finds that the
invalid is not yet strongenou: h to bear publicity;
though it has meantime been under further re-
vision by Mr. Caldwell, a clerk in the Education
Department (did he also receive an extra fee of
25gs. ?), and by Judge Windeyer—who altered
one phrase by substituting 1 juryman ’ for ‘ judge ’
in the assertion that ‘ Every man may thus be a
judge.’ Now the book is understood to be under-
going its half-dozenth revision at the hands of
another schoolmaster, Mr. Finney. The other
day Minister Garrard declared that, as it origin-
ally stood, Lusk’s book was considered the best
school history of Australia existing. Yet three
successive Ministers have found it too bad to
issue to the schools, and after seven years of
‘revision ’ at the hands of a dozen formal and in-
formal critics it is still unfit for publication. If
this is ‘ the best,’ then what, in Australia’s name,
is the quality of the histories now in daily use?
* * » •
This little story throws interesting light on the
methods and capacity of an educational bureau-
cracy. It is a matter of common experience that
a schoolmaster is generally the most wooden-
headed doctrinaire anywhere to be found. He is
usually a slave to routine; his memory is culti-
vated at the expense of his imagination ; the con-
tinual study of small facts and dates and details
seems to incapacitate him from comprehending
and applying principles—from taking large views
or making wide generalisations; and his brain is
so bemused with books that it loses all freshness,
agility, originality. Naturally, therefore, as C.
H. Buzaoofcb (formerly editor of Brisbane
* Courier’) wrote the other day, ‘school-teachers
make very indifferent journalists, and no manu-
script which reaches a newspaper office ordinarily
needs more careful editing than that from school-
teachers. Most school-teachers are by far too
self-opinionated for press work, and are inclined
to treat their readers as though they were pupils.’
* * * •
Properly directed, this routine-doctrinaire force
is capable of producing excellent results ; for the
army of Australian school-teachers is composed
of most conscientious, hardworking, and estimable
men and women. It is a misfortune that illumin-
ation seems generally as lacking at the top as at
the bottom of the educational tree. The per-
manent heads of Australian educational depart-
ments, as a rule, are either men who have been
school-teachers themselves, or men who have un-
dergone school-teacher petrifaction in the course
of a long term of departmental service. Their
minds frequently appear narrow and hidebound,
incapable of welcoming an idea new to the system
in which they have been trained. The consequence
is that the plastic brains of the children under
their care are crushed beneath a weight of rule
and dogma which rarely consider the adaptation
of youthful means to individual or national ends,
but aim to cram and petrify the new genera-
tion just as it was the habit to cram and
petrify the old. Occasionally a theorising
Minister remains long enough in office to
do more harm than good by engrafting his par-
ticular fad on the system : the average Minis-
ter is unable to do even this. The depart-
ment ' machine is so complex that a talented man
hesitates to make his opinion practically valid
against the advice of the permanent heads ; and
a man of the type of Minister Garrard is wholly
at their mercy, and soon learns that he must do
as he is bid and reserve his energy for ft-less
speeches at school celebrations.
The glare, and noise, and tinsel—apt em-
blems of modern royalty—have left to New
South Wales only one substantial result of
Queen Victoria’s bread-and-circus jubilation—
John Farrell’s poem in the ‘Daily Telegraph’ of
22nd June. When he was younger, Farrell ran
to rhetoric, as behoved his Irish blood ; and his
early ballads, if a little crude in form, are full of
emotional force. In the process of years he has
lost fire and gained philosophy, and ‘ Ave Impera-
trix ! ’ is a poem conceived in the later Tenny-
sonian vein. Its fault is a too-great elaboration
of phrase at expense of the motion and mean-
ing of the whole, so that it is full of fine passages
without being precisely a fine poem. The trees
are so admirable that one does not get quite the
right emotion at sight of the wood. But the poem
is worth prizing, and will be prized the more
because stress of journalistic work gives the
Farrell of to-day few opportunities to recall the
pleasure with which one read the poet Farrell of
a day bygone.
* • » »
A third series of William Astley’s tales of the
convict era in Australia was recently published by
Geo. Robertson and Co. (* Tales of the Old
Regime,’ by Price Warung). Like those which
have preceded them, these tales were first
published in The Bulletin, and the collection
strengthens one’s sense of the author’s wonderful
industry and of his intellectual skill in treating the
matter thus laboriously accumulated. So remark-
able are these qualities that it seems pity he did
not endeavour to mass in a longer and climaxed
story the impressions he has recorded. ‘For the
Term of His Natural Life’, by no means ex-
hausts the field ; and a good long story has more
of the essence of permanent force than a good
short one, or even a series of good short ones.
Probably in emotional effect such a book by
William Asth>y would have fallen short of ‘His
Natural Life’: there is a hard male strain in
Astley’s mind which makes his pathetic scenes
somewhat mechanical : he seems to vision clearly
the result he wishes to attain without being
ever quite able to attain it. Despite all his con-
structive ingenuity a reader remains usually
cold : as a rule, he impresses without moving or
thrilling.
+
Kipling hasn’t improved his position by his latest
verses. One set, ‘ Our Lady of the Snows,’ is mixed and
artificial. The other, for Burne-Jones’s ‘ Vampire,’ is
artificial and dull; and the woman-parasite idea has been
much more forcibly put.
Miss Floral Shaw, the Lond. Times correspondent who
was carefully shown the picturesque side of Q. colored-
labor question, has left that journal’s staff as a result of
her too open espousal of* the cause of Cecil Rhodes, and
has become editor of a Rhodesian paper, the ‘ South
African News.’
Mrs. Ellis Rowan, a Victorian lady who has wandered
over most of Australasia painting wild-flowers, and paint-
ing them admirably, announces a coming book of reminis-
cent sketches. Whether these are drawings or writings is
not quite clear. If the latter, it is to be hoped the author
will include some remarks on the royal ructions in Q.
railway service when some high-up officers who appreci-
ated her charm (she fascinated even Sam Griffith, who
gave her a free rail pass everywhere, and another when
she lost that) permitted her to ride on a Cairns-line
locomotive, in defiance of regulations. The whirlpool of
agitation that followed drew even Commissioner Mathie-
son into its vortex.
Anyone who forms an opinion of Lucy’s journalistic
talents exclusively from his letters to ‘S.M. Herald’ will
form a wrong opinion. In English magazines and
periodipals, where he is kept upon his mettle, Lucy is
often bright and interesting. But he appears to have
welcomed the idea that ‘anything will do for Australia,*
and to use his * Herald ’ letters largely as a vehicle for re-
turning thanks to distinguished persons who have asked
him to dinner.
Paperknife: ‘ Shakespere has no reference to the fidelity
of dogs, or beauty of architecture, and, strangely, does
not mention tobaoco.’
Habitud: ‘Allow me to protest against the barbarous
Goths employed in a Melb. Publio Library. They
smudge the stamp all through the most valuable foreign
works, on the letterpress, spoiling three or four lines in
places. This is only one way the book-stablers have of
evincing their contempt for readers.*
Homer continues to nod, and ... ‘in Sydney
Public Library there are two ‘ CEuvres completes de
Frantjois Villon,’ both in the printed catalogue ; and
Payne’s English translation is catalogued merely as
Poems of Villon, with nothing to lead one to believe the
translation to be a complete one. In 1878 Payne pub-
lished a limited issue of his translation, and finding a few
years later that the demand was greater than the
supply, he issued another edition, omitting three of the
ballads, and altering or suppressing a few passages in the
body of the Testament. He himself writes, “ These ex-
purgations are, after all, inconsiderable.” A copy of the
new edition is in the Sydney Library.’—Hu Rite.
Judging by some • Argonaut’ extracts from his letters,
Stephen Crane—the ideal war-correspondent—was a
failure in the real Graeco-Turkish field.
Arthur Galton, who came to N.S. Wales as private-
secretary to his uncle, Gov. Duff, is reported as return-
ing to England. Securing the favor of Premier
Dibbs, he was appointed by that politician to write a his-
tory of the province ; but Dibbs left office before the
appointment was confirmed, and Premier Reid cancelled
it. The work was unnecessary, since Government does
all that is required of it by issuing the ‘ Historical
Records ’ which F. M. Bladen is collecting. Galton’s his-
tory was apparently intended to proceed concurrently as
a rhetorical summary of the ‘ Records,’ with appropriate
m ml reflections ; but such a task may very well be left
to private enterprise. In any case, Galton, as a new-
chum of unremarkable capacity, did not seem the best
historian available. He turned to journalism, and in
that sphere appeared as a writer thoughtful and well-
informed, but heavy and unoriginal. And he is under-
stood to have collected materials for an Australian book
or two.
F.: ‘ Talking of literary coincidences—what about
H. Parkes and Robert Browning? P. writes of “The
Patriot ” (“FragmentaryThoughts,” p. 142) —
Fair women cast sweet flowers before his feet;
From all the housetops ’kerchiefs gaily waved . . .
The very flags flew out as wild with glee . . .
A year! and jibe and jeer and savage yell
Salute his ears; and missiles rank and foul
Fall thick about him where the garlands fell.
And R.B. (page 62 of the Is. “Selection”) has “The
Patriot. An Old Story.”
It was roses, roses, roses all the way. . . .
The house-roofs seemed to heave and sway,
The church spires flamed, such flags they had
A year ago this very day. . . .
And you see my harvest, what I reap,
This very day, now a year is run. . . .
And I think, by the feel, my forehead bleeds,
For they fling, whoever has a mind,
Stones at me for my year’s misdeeds.
You see, Browning practically admits the plagiarism by
labelling his alleged effort “An Old Story." ’
Apparently ‘Sea-Power’ Mahan has been attacked in
England for pandering to conventional views. Says
Admiral Colomb: ‘Surely no open-minded reader of
Mahan can doubt his devotion to history because it is
history, and the impossibility of his being diverted from
the pursuit of his quarry by any considerations as to who
will be pleased and who displeas'd.’ Precisely such a
doubt crossed the writer’s mind when glancing at Mahan’s
‘Life of Nelson,’ and noting how he slid oyer the Foley
manoeuvre at Abnukir, the shame of Naples, the Copen-
hagen armistice, and other ticklish points. Whatever
Mahan’s standpoint in regard to the ‘ Sea-Power ’
volumes, could he, with his present reputation and
friendships, tell the English the whole truth about a
popular hero like Nelson —if that truth ran counter to
conventional beliefs and prejudices? And, on the evi-
dence, has he told it?
J.: *An Australian poet complains that his pawnbroker
will insist upon describing him professionally as a
“printer’ on his tickets. Very few tradespeople cor-
rectly gauge the qualities of professional poets, jour-
nalists, reporters, or littbrateuis— mixing them mentally
in tlie disreputable category of “gents as writes for the
papers.” ’
REST.
We are so tired, my heart and I,
Of all things here beneath the Sky;
One only thing would please us best—
Endless, unfathomable rest.
We are so tired; we ask no more
Than just to slip out by Life's door)
And leave behind the noisy rout
And everlasting turn about.
Once it seemed well to run on, too,
With her importunate, fevered crew,
And snatch amid the frantic strife
Some morsel from the board of Life.
But we are tired; at Life's orude hands
We ask no gift she understands ;
But kneel to Him she hates to crave
The absolution of the grave.
Mathilde Blind.
A FANCY.
To J. Brunton Stephens.
The Earth, sore stricken with the Day's disease,
Lies dead, quite dead, beneath the Moon’s gray p a u ;
And sadly, from the dim adjacent stiore,
The Sea laments, and strikes her mournful rocks.
Listen! a tender echo in her train,
Timidly fluttering, like a fairy’s ghost
Upon the heels of some vast Brocken-shape,
Pauses, and strikes mournfully, and pauses even as she . .
It is iny,little child, my infant child,
Hushed in her bed, yet clapping dreamy hands
For father, as they teach her playfulwise.
A fancy seizes me : I think she beats
A plangent lamentation for my soul,
Slain in the stress of too-enthralling Life.
Notes and Queries.
4. — Marsupial Reproduction. — l7/4/97.
As in all mammals, the ovaries of the kangaroo
open into the womb; the only communication
between the womb and the outer world is by the
vagina. After a very short gestation the joey it
born as a little helpless blob of flesh, which the
doe lifts in her lips and places on the teat. The
joey’s mouth is at this stage a sort of sucking
apparatus which grips the teat tightly and sup-
ports the infant. Again, as the milk apparatus
in all mammals consists simply of a mass of secret-
ing glands having no connection .whatever with
any pelvic organ, it follows that the joey con-
ceived in the womb could not reach the teat by
any internal passage, but must travel by the exr
ternal route. Besides, actual births have been
witnessed in the London Zoo., and in the Zoo. at
Frankfort, Germany, and duly placed on record
by the scientists who observed the whole process.
An excellent description of the routine ia
given in Johnson’s Universal Cyclopedia (New
York, 1896). All the larger works on zoology and
comparative anatomy contain more or less full
descriptions of marsupial anatomy, any one of
whioh is sufficient to smash the theory that joey
is ‘born on the teat.’ —X.Z.
[‘ Mulga ’ and others write to similar effect; and a
valued contributor sends (in spirit) specimens of the joey
in uterus and as just born. But it will take a lone time
to stamp out the attractive ‘teat’ delusion.]
21. — Mixed Sex.
On Wilgena Station, N.S.W., there was for
several years a ewe with horns of the same shape
and size as a ram’s, but she differed from ‘ R.
Gildea’s ’ Bogadillon horned ewe in being intensely
masculine in appearance. Her condition was
always good, and her fleeces strong and heavy,
but, like Gildea’s ram-ewe, she was sterile. —X.Z.
22. — The Crow.
A drover of my acquantance, while bringing
cattle down to market, shot a sick bullock. There
being no timber handy to burn it he left the car-
case where it lay, but took the precaution to cub
the brand out and the ear off, and stuff them
down the dead bullock’s mouth to evade detection.
But a crow flew down after he had gone and
picked them out. Then a trooper came along,
and the drover was fined two pounds and costs
for leaving the dead bullock on the road.— Hugh
Harding.
23.— Borak.
I think ‘J.M.’ is right in his suggestion of
aboriginal derivation. Certainly the word was in
very common use 40 years ago, and was then
taken as aboriginal. But ‘ Bale ’ was the pure
negative. ‘Bo-riik’ carried the idea of good-
humored repudiation or denial—something equiva-
lent to our ‘ gammon ! ’ or ‘ no dash fear ! ” or our
still more offensive * Credat Judaeus Apella.’
The word, in this sense, was so familiar to my
own earliest notice that, honestly, the modern
expression, ‘poking bb-rak,’ still grates on my
ear as a new-chum incongruity of phrase, aggra-
vated by mispronunciation.— Tom Collins.
24.— Snaring Possums.
Being now out of that line of business, I can
recommend an excellent way of catching possums
for their skins. You want three or four dozen
small sixpenny mirrors and the same number of
rabbit-traps. At the foot of a likely-looking tree
you place a glass with the trap in front. A
possum is extremely curious, and seeing himself
in the glass—probably thinking that it is another
possum—he will walk up to sniff—and put his
foot in the trap. In this way I have caught hun-
dreds on the Murray. — Tindog. “Dew tell! ”
26. - First books printed in Australia.
The first book printed in South Australia bears-
the following title— ‘ No. 1, 7th William IY. An
Act for the granting of Licences, the regulating
the sale of Wine. Beer, and Spirituous Liquors, for
the Prevention of Drunkenness and the Promotion
of good Order in Public Houses. February 2,1837.
Glenelg. Printed by Authority, by Robert Thomas
and Co., Government Printers.’ The size is demy
Bvo., pp. 16. It was printed on the. Sand Hills
before the town of Adelaide was laid but.
The title of the first book printed in Westralia
is— ‘ A report of the late Trial for Libel, Clarke
versus Maefaul. Compiled by W. N. Clarke,
Solicitor. Fremantle, Western Australia, Sep-
tember, 1835. Printed at the Office of W. T.
Graham,’ The size is 22pp., demy Bvo., with
paper cover.
What are the titles of the first books, booklets,
or pamphlets printed in the other Australasian
provinces ?—G. Gerhard.


Medical.
YoCifyg tycg
if you are troubled with
exhausting’ complaints,
pimples, aversion to
society, stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, which deprive you of your man-
hood and absolutely unfit you for study or business—if
you are thus afflicted, you know the cause. Get well and
be a man.
Wail.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living' away from
the city and unable to come to his' office.
Treatment in this manner always satisfactory. Write for
Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise on NERVOUS DIS-
EASES. A perusal of it might save much mental and
physical suffering, and add golden years to your life.
Medical work post free on application.
DR. FREEMAN,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD.
Fee. 10/-.
Appropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Redfern Street,
REDFERN.
I
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that
Sjaeer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 29 York Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To MEN UNTIL CURED of all Nervous Dis-
eases, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe the
ease. Remedy sent in plain package. When
cured, we charge you not more than £1 ss.
Harvard Remedy Agency,
P.O. Box 347, Sydney
PHYSICIAN and SPECIALIST, after many years
of active practice, will now send to any poor Weak
Sufferer a Prescription (in plain English) for Perma-
nent Cure. Any Chemist can prepare it. Send stamp
for postage.
Address—
‘ ‘ MEDICUS,” G. P. 0., Sydney.
hrtS RICORp's
|^E**CE 0 f f£.
.-The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Us cd for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord's Essence of Life restores Health, and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 265. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
Agents for Australasia —Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
“ABoro Pby&kiao-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung- into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has perfornied
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands j our trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successful!}'.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where JEI is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng., -
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical,
». SPEER,
29 York; Street;,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
■MiMMllffire
:l]
[l]
FULL lOIRECTfOUS'
o v ENCLOSED?
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Tl)s (Jlory of flao !
STKENG-TH AND VITALITY.
Dr. GEO. WALSH,
The MOST SUCCESSFUL SPECIALIST in Australia,
may be consulted at his PRIVATE DISPENSARY on all
CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN &
BROOD DISEASES.
YOUNG and MIDDLE a AGED MEN, who by
their own acts of imprudence or folly suffer from lack of
energy, impaired vitality, loss of memory, pains in the
limbs and bowels, sunken eyes, tottering gait, who are
weak, debilitated and unable to perform life’s duties pro-
perly ; imbibe natural nerve force and power by my
Urethral Treatment and without exposing their miseries
to an unsympathising physician, who does not study and
consequently does not understand these cases.
OLD MEN who-now find the penalties following their
transgressions, indiscretions or over brain-work, may con-
sult with assurance of speedy relief and a permanent cure.
Blood and Skin Diseases, Kidney, Bladder and Liver
complaints, Heart and Lung troubles treated successfully.
MARRIED MEN and those about to tnarry, who
dread their weakness or incapacity, or whose blood is
loaded with impurities transmittable to their offspring,
should consult DR. WALS H without delay.
Varicocele easily and quickly cured without' operation.
Write for particulars.
“The Bright Side,” a valuable Illustrated Medical
Work on Brain and Nerve Exhaustion and its Cure by the
only pleasant, safe, and certain method exclusively my
own, sent sealed eight stamps.
Before confiding your case, consult Dr. WALSH,
L-R.C.P & S., et L.M., legally qualified Physician
and Surgeon, registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Australia, and New Zealand, and one who has
made diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs a life-long
study, hence to him the sufferer can look with full and
positive assurance of restoration to health and vigorous
manhood ; call or write for absolute proofs of success.
Consultation by letter or in person free and invited.
Send to-day for the “Bright Side,” it will interest you!
Sent sealed for eight stamps. When immediate treatment
is desired, send complete history of case and £l.
DR. GEO. WALSH,
83 EXHIBITION STREET, MELBOURNE.
SNO WEEK.
WEAK MAN
CURE
YOURSELF
IN FOUR WEEKS.
Why waste time, money, and health with wonderful “cure alls”
specifics, &c., when I will send you FREE the full particulars of the
Homoeopathic'Treatment, which is a complete cure for Nervousness and Failing*
Vigor in young and old men. All letters sent sealed.
Address—Dr. IRVING CO., corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrallv-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. Gt-133 33 OUSTS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
•ng symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
debility,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
• is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT HIIIIIIIOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
YY r EAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published. —Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
AM cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes“ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago I went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first T was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Hi
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Tour remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding-my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being- under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.’’
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen-
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over A2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
II a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwac.


TATTERSALL’S
u
OUSTER PRIZE LIST.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
Waterloo Coursing C. July 22 & 23.
100,000 Subscribers at E«
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
SPUING H. 14th August.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
-shares in the above.
Name
Address
CAULFIELD C
Oct. 16.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
CANTERBURY PARK C. July 31.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Nam e.
, Address
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers a<t 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Tattersall’s Great Distribution
—OF THE-
Millbank Estate, Junee, N.S.W.
116,000 Shares at £1 Each Drawn in Hobart at an Early Date. 116,000 Shares at£l Each
Ist Prize —Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee
valued at £10,065
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
Empire Hotel, remora ... ... ... valued at
Albion Hotel, Cootamundra ... ... ... valued at
Large Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc. ... ... ... valued at
286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse) ... ... valued at
Union Club Hotel, Junee ... ... -• ... valued at
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
8,100
8,000
4,000
4,000
3,550
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the Homestead or
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
MELBOURNE C.— 100,000 at 5, ALSO OPEN.
Tattersall s Second Distribution
—OF—
City ai)d StibOrbao
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss. Each.
Ist Prize. —Terrace Houses, Glenmore
lioad, and large Dwelling-House, Value
Woollahra .°. £g,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


All Sorts SOited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite/ and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of hie,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. _ Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. Youd
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL —or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE-ONE-SATURDAYS.
phony Hordern&S ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
WHY
SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s 'Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
j In curing affections of the Throat
> and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
) Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
l ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute*
Qo got Hesitate!
BUT Call and See.
or Write for De-
signs and Prices to
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
If you want to be in the Best Market for
- HEALTHY BEDDING,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL BEDSTEADS,
SUPERIOR WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES,
AUSTRIAN and AMERICAN CHAIRS,
BEST JAVA KAPOK, in 801b Bales; KITCHEN, DINING,
DRAWING and BEDROOM FURNITURE.
John Latvler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-ST., BRICKFIELD HILL, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES,
Nos. i, 3, 5, 6, 8, and 10 Union Lane.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
BCadame Rodney,
mHE celebrated Scientific and Practical Palmist,
may be consult ed either by LETTER or PERSONALLY
at
18 Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
The “Sorting Universal”
Boiler - Feed Injector.
MANUFACTURED BY
L. SHUTTE & CO.
The Most Reliable Boiler-feed Injector in this market,
it is working in thousands of cases to the very best ad-
vantage. It takes water at a temperature of 150deg.
Fahr. It is worked entirely by one handle. Send for
Special Circular.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery
Merchants,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ;
315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
WaSbiQgtoD H- SoCil & Co.
“ What we can do, we’ll do, to do
you good.’’
SPARTAN TONIC, a faithfully-manufactured article to stimulate the system and
produce brain and muscle vigor, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin ; none better procurable, at least
nearer than Mars—-that’s what all Mammas say, anyway.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONlC—sound African nuts alone used; 2s. 3d. per,
bottle.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded.
WASHINGTON N. SOUL & CO., M’sP-S.,
158 & ISO Fitt - street, Sydney
(near to king-street) ;
268 Fitt-street, Sydney
(near to park-street) ; and at
CHURCH AND PHILLIP STREETS, PARRAMATTA.
Specially prepared as a Beautifies* of the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE'S
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP
AND COMPLEXION WAFERS.
Will produce the most lovely Complexion, free from blotch blemish coarseness, redness,
freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per tablet.
Doctor’s certificate with each cake, certifying to its hnrnilessuess. purity, and beautifying
qualities. Beware of injurious imitations. At all chemists. ______
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Bianc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
Rubber Manufacturers .
WATERPROOFS
INVERNESS CAPES, DRIVING COATS, MACINTOSHES, DRIVING RUGS, CAPE
IJN ’ COATS, OILSKINS.
RUBBER HOSE.
r ARDEN HOSE SPRAYS, ROSES, JETS, SPRINKLERS, &c. BREWERS’ HOSE,
GARDEN & nosE ( STEAM HOSE, DIVING HOSE, EIRE HOSE.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
Australian Rutte Works - 270 George-street, Sydney.
—————
Every Variety of
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
tar SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
W 1
TRITE DIRECT to the Chief Australasian Depftt. 484 George-street,Sydney, for photos and
particulars of the world-renowned Hapsburg Pianos. You may obtain the very latest of
Upright Grands and Semi Grands—iron-framed, trichopkin walnut or ebony—direct from the makers,
at prices that wiU'eßect a saving of 50 per cent, ' ad compared with'buying them froni dealers
Tho actions aro all check-repeator with front esoapement, made bv the foremost firms m Germany
Tho hammers are covered with best felt, and aro rivetted. Tho sounding-board, which is thi
greatest point of a Piano, is of unique construction, cambered and secured by screws at all
joints. It can never shrink, crack, or sag in any climate) and thus the Piano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins are extra,
long and plated. All
ba.ss wires copper
covered. The clavia-
ture (keyboard) is of
new pattern and accu-
rate workmanship.
Wire 9 are two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, henco
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD.. SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES..-
Hammer-shanks of
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Compass, seven octaves. 1
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and Of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hansburg Pianos can
bo had in walnut o*
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
carved panda, pilastus and patirac. Renaissance candelabra. The touch is easy, elastic, and
responsive. The tone possesses, a full sonorous volume in the bass; a rich, round, singing qua 1 y
in the middle compass ; and a clear, bell-like sweetness in the treble. Singers find tho timbro
sustaining and developing to the voice. We take risk of loss m transit. The price
freight to port of entry, insurance, and duty. Testimonials from thousands °* ’
chasers will bo submitted, including eminent musicians of world-wide b nty, U<overnora o
colonies, churches, schools, convents, and publip institutions. BE A Job &w* IjIV., ueorg
Street, Sydney, and throughout. Mew South \Vale3.
Forbes's IMIOSI EIiIMNE.
h’nr General Denression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a speciflS for NeurS vvhen arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fat.gue.
The Genuine is prepared only by
Martin & Pleasance,
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.
HOMOEOPATHIC CHEMISTS
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MAID MARGARET.
(From a Soul in Pain to One in Bliss.)
My love, who underneath the sod
Hast lain these twenty years,
The wrong I did thee —(O, my God !) —
May not be purged by tears ;
My fire, that ever rageth,
No cooling stream assuageth.
Maid Margaret! I loved thee well,
And shrined thee in my heart,
Until another cast a sped
That tore us twain apart; —
Too gentle, thou, and tender,
To stand before her splendor !
I made that other one my bride ;
I told thee of my choice;
I bade thee, in my youthful pride,
Look on us and rejoice.
Few fell thy words, but sweetly ;
Thy soft smile vanished fleetly.
As formal friends we parted, love !
Then, ’midst my nuptial bliss,
They told me thou wert called above
To brighter worlds than this.
Bv’n then no voice reproved me
And told me thou hadst loved me.
Long time, wide distance, stand between
Those bygone scenes and now ;
Experience has brought insight keen
To make me know that thou
Wert loving, true, and tender,
In patient self-surrender.
And thou didst go to mouldy Death,
As to a bridegroom’s arms,
Resigned thy sweet and cheerful breath
And all thy budding charms,
Because "of love unswerving
For me, the undeserving ;
While I, a thoughtless, selfish boy,
Who nothing knew of life,
Exulting in my wedded joy,
Plunged in thy heart a knife ;
Yea, deemed the torture kindness,
And slew thee, in my blindness !
For crime of ignorance and youth,
Lord, doom me not to wrath !
The clear, illuming light of truth
Enough of judgment hath ;
Hell holds no greater terror
Than knowledge of my error.
Sweet love, thou art not ’neath the sod
These twenty weary years ;
Thou dwell’st a saint, at home with God,
Above earth’s smiles and tears ;
And Heaven has surely taught thee
More lore than Earth has brought me.
Bride of my Spirit! better part
Of what is best in me !
Though earthly love enchains my heart,
My spirit craves to be
Where thou art, virgin stainless,
In lands where love is painless.
If I could know thou dost forgive
My sin of long ago,
Then would I gladly cease to live,
Nor dread eternal woe.
Saint Margaret ! I pray thee,
Let thoughts of sway thee.
So may I gain that far, bright shore,
When earthly ties are rent,
And thou and she and I once more
May meet and be content;
No fleshly love dividing,
But heavenly love abiding !
Christchurch, M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
AFTER THE HONEYMOON.
Wake from thy sleep, O husband ! lam here
Who am the soul of her thou callest wife;
Look thou upon me ! Have no shame or fear ;
I am thy chosen, bound to thee for life.
Thou hast the right to look on me unveiled
Of that fair covering of warm white flesh ;
Gaze on me calmly, husband ! unassailed
By glance of eye, or gleam of silken mesh
Of hair, or rose of mouth or cheek—
Look ! I have laid my loveliness aside ;
An ugly naked self I stand, and weak—
Weaker than water—l who am thy bride.
But long ago—when, I remember not—
There was no whiter soul the whole world round,
And I was free as any ; but the lot
Fell unto me in artificial ground.
They weighed me down with iron bonds of rule ;
They bade me bow at Custom’s slightest nod,
Until I learned to love the gilded fool,
And hailed conventionality as god.
They set my feet upon the beaten way,
And bade me wander not to right or left;
“ Thus far, no farther, shall thy footsteps stray.’
Early was I of liberty bereft.
Nature sets bounds ; but Nature I defied,
And Nature hath revenged herself on me;
Fixed are the laws I lightly laid aside—
Poor slave of artificiality !
Time was when I rebelled against my fate,
And would have thrown my fetishes aside,
Cut mine own path, but for my iron’s weight—
And, crushed at birth, my new-born longings
died.
And now X cannot move without those stays
And props : since wish for freedom’s dead
I care not now to tread untrodden ways
Nor have I strength to walk unfettered.
Dost thou still wonder I am weak and small,
Deformed ? diseased beyond physician’s skill ?
Wonder that I had strength to live at all !
Wonder that any life is in me still !
I am thy wife ; flesh of thy flesh —that s well,
Since flesh is flesh and I, if foul, am fair
Soul of thy soul ? Ah, husband ! what if Hell
Were sweeter to thee than thy life-despair !
For thou shalt live, and I shall still endure,
A loathsome thing that hath no member whole,
Until the friction of a mind impure
Create a canker in thy healthy soul.
Wouldst thou rise upwards? I shall drag thee
back , .
To mine own footing on Gehenna s slope ;
And kill thy finer fancies, as the black
And nipping frost destroys the heliotrope.
Pity me—loathe me—still my place is here.
Beside thee, with thee, close to thee for life
Look thou upon me, husband ! have no fear,
I am the soul of her thou madest wife.
M.L.
DORA WILCOX.


ACiStraliap f^CitCial
Established 1819.
Provident Society.
The Oldest. Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR !
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
J. T. WALKER, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797,
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
florae
A lACUJTTVEOFALL WEALS AMD ATTENDANCE
.Aiktkalia
f<dy>V Mpore,
tianpyp
RRynNT & May’s wax vcstas
and
PATENT SAFETY MATCHES.
20 Prize Medals fox* Excellence and Safety.
HONEST IN QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
See that the name of Bryant & May is on every box.
AUSTRALIAN BRANDY
(Joshua Bros . 66 Boomerang 99 Brand),
WHOLESOME, NOURISHING, and STIMULATING.
&3T Pronounced by the most competent experts to be equal in quality to the finest Cognac.
Sold by all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
S. HOFFNUITG & CO., Sydney and Brisbane, Sole Agents.
irojld
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEA.M
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
!
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
Lofydoo apd tyelboOrpe Tailoring Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVING
PURCHASED
FOR CASH
A Large Consignment of Woollens at a Big Discount
Are enabled to supply perfect fitting WINTER GARMENTS
Suits—4ss. to 90s. Trousers— from 12s. 6d. to 255.
at
Send or call for Patterns—Workmanship Guaranteed. S. M. BAUMARSHE, Manager
All Goods delivered free of charge to any part of the colony.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES,
£ll 17s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O; DOUBLE
’ BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H. NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Si Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles Sc Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Owing to the large increase of my Saddlery and Vehicle Trade, combined to my objection to the Time-navmpnt
'System, I have decided to CLEAR MV STOCK of BICYCLES AT LAID-DOWN COST IN SYDNEY* The whole of
tfiese have English Dunlop and M. and \V. Tyres. The bicycle season is just coming in, so Wholesale and Retail
i should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the same money.
5iaNfT?CBG^X TES
y>
'sSSr v
(Li
ZnmWT^-i
- ir
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here.”
German Tourist : “ Zen vy ? You say schmoke signet
tobac.co only. I never smoke any other tobacco.”
(-godalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
I—g o clalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
| —gocTLalla Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
220 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
-THE-
Federal Palace
HOTEL,
(Situate close to Station and Steamers)
MELBOURNE.
■ Every Modern Comfort and Convenience.
Visitors have greatest possible Variety of rooms to
choose from. Beds, 2/- to 10/- per night. TWO
DINING BOOMS. Boarders, 30/- co £3 3s. per week.
Write for terms for Families.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney.
Chairman : The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 416 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA
RATES LOWEST. SECURITY UNDOUBTED.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896—divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable On renewal of policies,
making .£97,1763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Hates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.O. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. liiaTbilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
I'arquhar. J.. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. zeilidikjidgke: & co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
DIXSON * SONS
During 1895 consumed in their Tobacco MORE AMERICAN LEAF
than did all other Tobacco Factories combined.
Yaokee Poodle.
A semi-dark plug. No tobacco has gained such vast popularity in so short
a time. During the last two years the increase has reached over 100 per
cent, more than that of the preceding year.
CoijqOeror.
Has the LARGEST SALE of any one brand made in New South Wale?
PixSoij’S New CooqOeror.
To many smokers an improvement on the old by reason of its aroma
and flavor.
CbaiDpioQ Arorqatic.
Long and Rough Cut, Navy Cut, Blended Stock. Nothing can exceed
in quality these gold leaf goods.
DARK TWISTS— UncIe Sam, Sir Roger, Centennial, Early Bird, etc
DARK PLUG- —Dollar, Centennial, etc.
AROMATICS —Golden Plum, Twin Star Curls, Cloth of Gold.
CALALOGUE OF PRICES AND SHOW CARDS SENT POST FREE
Importers of Epes and Tobacconists’ Wares in Great and Newest Varieties,
AGENTS FOR
CIGARETTES.
MoQopole RotbScbildS, La RoSiija, Flor d« ViSto Cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 907.
SATURDAY, JULY 3, 1897.
Price, 6d.
Bfe,;
/
I
The Reld Government has picked up a second-hand statue of Parkes (dirt-
cheap) which it says is good enough for Centennial Park.
SHADE OF PARKEN: "As if I hadn't been caricatured enough during my lifetime!”
CAUTOONLETS.
SO MUCH FOR BUCKINGHAM!
CORRNER (in the late Dnbbo decapitation case): “Gentlemen of the jury, it’s my
opinion as this unhappy gent lost his head (like many others of us) over the
late outburst of loyalty in connection with the Jubilee celebrations.” Verdict
accordingly.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 01% 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal A ote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed .T F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the,
‘Correspondence" column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Art icier.
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ire
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in JBtack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordonand Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<£- Co., Cornhill.
South Aprica.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo.—W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £l, with
os. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 (is. lid. per
annum, payable in advance.
SATURDAY, JULY 3, 1897.
Griffith’s Solution.
Samuel Griffith, Chief Justice of Queens-
land, supplies the latest and about the best
among many recent contributions to Federa-
tion literature. As a rule, no one looks for
any definite solution of a difficulty from that
quarter. Much learning and much legal
acumen and a profoundly microscopical habit
of mind combined to make Samuel Griffith
one of the most brilliantly useless among
notable Australian politicians. His insight
enabled him to see 12 different solutions to
every question, 11 of which would escape a
more ordinary and useful mind ; and 24 in-
superable objections to each of them, every
one of which would have missed the eye of
comparatively ignorant, rough and ready
politicians of the Seddon, or Turner, or
Reid type. And, having explained all these
288 matters in a long speech of the utmost
brilliancy, Griffith generally left things as
they were, merely showing in conclusion that
anything which could possibly be done was
just as disastrous as not doing anything at
all. Griffith as a critic was unrivalled in
liis political days, for he could show on good
evidence the utter inadvisability of every-
thing. But as a constructive politician he
was generally a failure.
* * * *
Nevertheless, Griffith offers the best and
boldest and most definite solution of the
great Federal difficulty that has been yet
advanced by any public man in Australia. The
difficulty on which most of the trouble hangs
is the division of assets and liabilities. The
proposed amalgamation of the public debts
fell through because some provinces are
more heavily embarrassed than others, and
some have borrowed at a higher rate than
others. All the railway consolidation schemes
collapsed because the lines don’t all pay at
exactly the same rate, and some provinces
have more railway than others, and each
province reckoned that the only object of
amalgamation was jdo . enable the adjacent
province to steal away its trade. The idea
4 putting the construction of new lines
under Federal control was scouted because
each province was convinced that every other
province would get an undue share of new
line. So far as the present assets and
liabilities were concerned, it was decided to
retain nearly everything under provincial
management and have, as far as possible, no
Federation at all, because each of the five
provinces represented regarded the other
four as thieves banded together to plunder
it. Then when the question of Federal
revenue and expenditure came on, the scheme
of .union and brotherhood further fell to
pieces. The attitude of everybody was that
“ our” province was to be robbed to enrich
the other provinces ; that “we” would con-
tribute more than “our” share of the
revenue and get less than “our” share of
expenditure ; that there was no guarantee
that the whole arrangement was not a plot
to rob “ us,” and much more to the same
effect.
* * * *
The result of it all was an elaborate
arrangement whereby the Federal Govern-
ment, if there ever is one, is to he strictly
tied up as, regards its expenditure to a ridi-
culously small sum; and it is to divide all
surplus revenue according to the cast-iron
system laid .down by the provinces. Also,
its power is so limited as to be hardly worth
mentioning. Yet, despite all this, in'the
only Parliament (that of New South Wales)
where the Convention Bill has been dis-
cussed, nearly everybody has risen to point
out that there is no knowing what .dreadful
things the Federal Government may not do
when once it gets started, and to demand
that it be tied up more securely than ever,
and that it shall have practically no power at
all, because the only way to make quite sure
that it won’t do anything bad is not to let it
do ’anything. Probably the other Parlia-
ments, when they get on to the subject, will
rave in a similar fashion. When every one
of the six States begins with the idea that
Federation means a league of the other five
States against it for purposes of highway
robbery, any kind of parochial foolishness is
possible.
♦ * * *
At a time when almost every other writer
and speaker on the subject is formulating a
new scheme for splitting the last halfpenny
with more deadly accuracy than ever, and is
producing huge masses of figures in defence
of his theory, Samuel Griffith comes out
with the singularly novel suggestion that the
provinces should simply trust the Federal
Government to he as honest as the average,
and drop all the schemes together. Also, he
proposes that instead of being puton an allow-
ance of the meanest and most cheese-paring
description, it should be given the same abso-
lutely free hand as the provincial Gover-
ments enjoy ; and that, instead of being tied
up in all manner of ways lest it should bite
or run away, it should be left as untram-
melled as possible. This idea has a lot to
recommend it. So far, nobody has suc-
ceeded in evolving a satisfactory method of
apportioning the surplus Federal revenue
among the States. The Convention pro-
duced several schemes and talked over several
dozen more, hut none of them really satis-
fied anybody. No one can tell in advance
what the surplus revenue will be, what propor-
tion each State will contribute, what the uni-
form tariff will he, or how many years it will
be before, under a uniform tariff, the revenue
per head of population will become the same
in each state ; therefore no scheme which is
evolved now, when there are absolutely no
data to go upon, can satisfy anybody. There
is not one chance in a thousand that any
scheme which can he formulated now will be
even decently equitable, seeing that it is a
mere groping in the dark.. Chief-J ustice
Griffith proposes to simply start without
any scheme. The Federal Parliament will
be able to ascertain with reasonable accuracy
how much each province yields in revenue
and oosts in expenditure, and being pro-
bably as honest and patriotic as either the
provincial Parliaments or the Convention, it
will be as likely as anybody else to do the
fair thing by everybody. Similarly he pro-
poses that it should be left to work out
the railway and public-debt problems by
itself, because no one can tell under the pre-
sent system what the various railways will be
worth under the entirely new system of
internal Freetrade. Also, no one can tell for
certain to-day what may happen to-morrow or
ten years hence to the public debt or the
public credit or the public finances.
* * * *
The people will create The Federal Parlia-
ment, and its honesty will be a reflex of the
honesty of the nation. If the nation can’t
rely on itself to make a Federal Parliament
which can be trusted with the public money
and the public property, then it must needs
put restrictions upon that body by means of
a Convention, but it naturally follows that it
can’t trust itself to create a Convention
either honest or wise enough to devise the
right kind of restrictions. If it can’t trust
itself to create a Federal Government that
can be allowed to take charge of the railways,
and to make the best use of the public
revenue, and to allot the surplus decently,
then these matters must be left to the
Provincial Governments ; but the same com-
munity can’t trust itself to create Provincial
Governments which will be any more reli-
able. The reason principally assigned for
making cast-iron restrictions about the divi-
sion of the Federal surplus is that otherwise
the provinces might be left in a state of in-
solvency, and have to default on their public
debt, or do something equally dreadful. The
short and obvious way out of that difficulty
is to hand the whole debt problem and all
the unprofitable railways and accumulated
deficits over to the Federal Government with
general instructions to find its way out of the
mess as best it can. Presumably there is a
way out. If there is, the Commonwealth
Legislature, as a gathering of the best politi-
cal intelligence in Australia, is better able to
find it than anybody else. If there is any
public insolvency in view the Federal Legis-
lature, as an institution with broader shoul-
ders than any mere provincial affair can be,
is best able to face the responsibility. All
the local politicians and the Federal Conven-
tion and the various Parliaments have
struggled to no purpose to strike an average
whereby the financial burdens, present and
to come, can be fairly adjusted among the
different provinces according to their circum-
stances, and the shortest way is to deposit
the whole problem outside the capacious
door of the Commonwealth, and leave it
there. If the Federal Parliament can’t solve
the difficulty then the people who create
it are responsible, and as the people are
ultimately responsible in any case this pro-
cedure can’t make things any worse than
they are.
• • * •
Put in the fewest words, Samuel Grif-
fith’s advice, in which The Bulletin
heartily concurs, is that the Federal Legis-
lature should be made as fairly representa-
tive a body as possible, and should be given
a free hand to do the best it can for Aus-
tralia in general. All the restrictions that
can be devised will probably prove useless,
as well as clumsy and incomprehensible. If
the Federal Legislature approves of the
course laid down for it, then that probably
means that it would have followed the same
course itself in any case. If it disapproves,
it will probably find some way of breaking
up the most elaborate agreement that the
Convention and the local Parliaments can de-
vise. In any case, all the restrictions and
compromises which, human foresight can de-
vise in 1897 will almost certainly be antiquated
through mere force of circumstances ten
years, or even five years, later If Federa-
tion had begun in 1887, when Victoria was
still the leading province of Australia, and
Westralia was a howling wilderness and a
mere crown colony, the best financial com-
promise that could have been devised then
would be of very little account now. And
the one that is devised now will probably
look equally ridiculous in 1907, or even long
before that date.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Municipal Grog.
When the two Chafeey irrigation settlements
were started at Mildura (Vic.) and Renmark
(S.A.) it was decided to run them both on
strict-Oold Tea principles. The scheme worked
only moderately well. The settlements yielded
no licensing revenue. They were a trifle
drunker, if possible, than the average. The
drink sold was worse than the average ; when
the retailer was liable to be fined just the same
if he was caught selling good liquor or bad, he
sold the kind that he made most profit out of.
The sly groggeries, in very many cases, com-
bined immorality with liquor-selling ; they had
no license to lose by misconduct, so they were
absolutely reckless in their methods of making
money. They sold liquor at all hours of the
twenty-four, also because they had no license
to lose through being found trading after
hours ; if a dealer is liable to fine for selling at
all he may as well sell for 24 hours a day as
not, and thereby make the most of his time in
between fines. They were largely run by
people of very bad character ; the law may
insist on the keeper of a licensed house being a
person whose record can stand inspection, but
tiie keeper of an unlicensed house can have any
kind of record he pleases. Also their premises
were often foul and unwholesome, for the fine
on the man who runs a dirty sly-grog shop is
just the same as on the man who keeps a clean
one. For several years Mildura and Renmark
struggled with the evil at great expense in
police supervision, and then the latter settle-
ment gave up the hopeless effort. By a special
Act of Parliament an experiment at State—or,
rather, municipal—grog-selling was established
at Renmark. The local pub is managed by an
elected committee, and it yields a profit to the
municipality of between £750 and £lOOO per
annum. The new establishment is clean and
well-conducted, sells good liquor, and has prac-
tically extinguished the local sly-grog industry
in one act. The experiment proves, so far as
it has gone, that State or municipal manage-
ment of the liquor business is possible. It also
proves that it is profitable. Renmark lias a
population of less than 1000 people, and its one
pub. pays handsomely. If Sydney or Melbourne
were run on the same principle of simply sup-
plying as much public-house as is actually re-
quired, they could do with far less than half
the present number of bars, and the natural
result would be that the survivors would pay a
great deal better than at present. And if these
survivors were run, at least so far as the bars
were concerned, under State or municipal con-
trol, and paid about half as well as the Renmark
experiment does, they would yield a profit of
.£150,000 or £200,000 a year. Even the sug-
gestion of such a revenue is calculated to make
a heavily-taxed municipality dream of Paradise.
Federation and Jubilation.
That very tired and indifferent old gentleman,
Premier Nelson, of Queensland, has announced
in England that Federation, according to his
opinion, is “premature.” Every man, as a
matter of course, judges the importance of
anything by the way he feels about it, and
Nelson feels this way about almost everything.
He is blankly indifferent about Federation be-
cause he is blankly indifferent about most other
things. He assumes that the public is indiffer-
ent, partly because he is indifferent, and partly
because he is too lazy to find out whether the
public is indifferent or not, and partly because
he is too tired to care. He assumes that
Federation is premature because nobody takes
any interest in it—he having previously assumed
that nobody takes any interest. The time when
it won’t be premature, in Nelson’s opinion, will
be when he realises that the public has wakened
up to real enthusiasm about it; but as he never
will realise that, being incapable of understand-
ing enthusiasm on the part of anybody about
anything, it will continue to be premature in-
definitely. Nelson, at all events, makes no
pretence of being friendly to the movement,
and the chief hope, so far as Queensland is con-
cerned, is that Tozek, K.C.M.G., is more
in earnest than his leader, and that the
rest of the Ministry may follow Tozer rather
than Nelson. Within the last few weeks
the prospects of the Commonwealth have not
improved. The N.S.W. Assembly has talked
drearily over one clause of the Bill—the clause
stating that the name of this Bill is so-and-so—
for two whole months, and the House seems to
have got completely out of the control of
Brunner and Carruthers and fallen in a heap.
Most of the time there has barely been a
quorum ; the rest of the time there hasn’t been
one Almost all the speakers have professed to
be enthusiastically in favor of Federation in
general, but they are almost all against the
present scheme for some reason which fills
eight pages of Hansard. No two of them
seem to be against it for quite the same reason,
but each one threw more or less cold water on
it in the presence of 20 or 30 other members
who were fast asleep, and a quantity of empty
furniture. The Legislative Council, at time of
writing, hadn’t even started to consider the
matter, and Attorney-General Want —almost
the only man of energy in that House of Slum-
ber—is bitterly and openly hostile. The other
four Parliaments have not yet fairly commenced
to talk about the measure, and unless they all
make better progress than N.S.W. has done up
to date it will ultimately be left abandoned
somewhere on the high-road. The departure
of the Premiers to scramble for titles and free
board-and-lodging in England has probably
done something to bring about this state of
indifference. Nelson’s absence certainly doesn’t
matter much, for Nelson never matters much
in any capacity, and Turner and Kingston
have each left a good substitute behind. But
Forrest’s understudy, Wittenoom, is a nonen-
tity ; and Acting-Premier Brunner has already
fallen to pieces ; and Fysh of Tasmania has
apparently grown indifferent since his financial
schemes were cold-shouldered by the Conven-
tion. And, even if each one of the absent
Premiers had left a better man than himself to
fill his place, their general abandonment of the
measure would create a bad impression. All the
Premiers agreed that Federation was the most
important event in Australia’s history, and then
they all left the event to take care of itself, and
went away to jubilate.
Licensing' Anomalies.
Writes “V.” to The Bulletin :
The absurdity of the N.S.W. licensing law was illus-
trated, a few days ago, when a Sydney brewery was
forced to take proceedings in one of the higher courts for
ejectment against the occupant of a hotel. Before the
amount of a publican’s license-fee can be received by the
Treasury the license-certificate of the previous year must
be produced.. It is hard to see the necessity of this pro-
vision. It would be just as sensible to enact that a land-
lord should not receive rent until he had obtained the
previous receipt. In England and other countries, where
the law is logically administered, the person authorised
by the magistrates is held to be the licensee, and, without
any further bother, pays the fee just as he would pay a
butcher’s bill. In N.S.W., not only is the magistrate’s
consent required, but the old certificate must be produced
before a new one can be issued. This condition makes
the holder of the old license master of the situation ; and
as there is often much friction between the occupant of a
licensed house and the brewers, as well as property-
owners, spirit-merchants, and others who may regard a
license as a valuable lien, some queer complications
result. It is generally found expedient to “ square ” the
old licensee, but when, through greed or revenge, he re-
fuses to listen to reason, the license is liable to forfeiture.
Take the famous Pratt case, for instance. The holder of
the old license retained it in his possession, and the
Treasury would not issue a new one, though Pratt, the
owner, was willing to pay the amount, and the magis-
trates made no objection. The old one having lapsed
through expiration, Pratt then applied for a new license,
but, the previous locai-option poil in that ward having
decided against new licenses, the magistrates refused.
It is ridiculous that important interests should depend on
these farcical polls. Pratt invoked the aid of the higher
Courts, but in vain. He was about to appeal to the
Privy Council, and a special meeting of the N.S.W.
Licensed Victuallers’ Association, reinforced bv brewers,
property-owners and others interested, was held for the
purpose of providing funds, but, instead of travelling to
the other end of the world to make an experiment in law,
Pratt found it cheaper to avail himself of a loophole in
the present Act. Houses exceeding certain dimensions
are independent of the local-option law. Consequently,
when Pratt added a few extra rooms and a wing to the
building, he was able to snap his fingers at the local
optionists, and obtain a conditional license, though, per-
haps, he is not now in'as favorable a position as if he had
obtained a transfer from the old licensee in the usual
way. Parkes and others used to allude to the present
local-option law as a democratic measure. Yet it may
lean heavily on the poor man, who cannot afford to en-
large his premises, while it has no terror for the property-
owner who makes light of the cost of extra bricks and
mortar. Another incongruity is that those interested
in existing hotels are as eager as the temperance party in
voting against new licenses which would interfere with
the present comparative monopoly. This expedient of
increasing the size of the premises was availed of in
another complicated licensing case—that of the Palace
Hotel, Haymarket, Sydqey. It is said that the gaunt bar-
racks, which now pass as hotels in Melbourne suburbs, were
not, as is generally supposed, so much the result of the land-
boom as of the concessions which the Vic. licensing law
also offers to large buildings. This is one of the curses of
the existing Australian laws. Tenants are induced, nay
compelled, to erect hotels beyond their requirements with
the result that they become “ tied ” to the brewer or
mortgaged to the bank. When the contractor’s paint
has worn off, these huge, half-furnished tenements
become an eye-sore, and serve no useful purpose unless
their cheerless ugliness drives the onlooker to drink.
How different the snug hotel one sees in England, where
the licensee can adapt the size of his house to the re-
quirements of his business ! The anomalies of the Aus-
tralian licensing law are so many that it would now be
idle to discuss their reform. The better plan would be to
make a clean sweep. In England a Royal Commission is
at present carrying on an exhaustive inquiry into the
whole subject, and it is generally believed that its labors
will result in a codification of the many existing statutes
and a fresh start in licensing law. When this takes
place, every province in Australia might, for once, advan-
tageously follow the example of England.
4
Be Patents.
Dear Bulletin,— ln this matter “ C.” puts the
ease of Brisbane patent-agents very well, but
of course, the mere public does not get much
consideration. As a Vic. resident, I know
nothing about Q. administration of patent law;


but it seems to me that “C.’s” attack is very
weak in this section :
Lately a patent was refused on the absurd ground that
“ it would interfere with one of the great industries of the
country.” Did not weaving-looms interfere with a great
English industry ?
If the Q. law upholds this decision—then prima
facie it is thoroughly democratic. It is mere
weakness or worse to sacrifice the people of
to-day on the altars of posterity and a patentee.
Patents “ against public policy ” should not be
granted—nor, on the other hand, should the
average patentee be circumlocuted and black-
mailed. If a patent should be granted, it
should be granted free of cost. But there
should be conditions, one being that the patent
should be worked in the country. I under-
stand that in France a patent is void if
not worked in France within two years,
or if it ceases to be worked for tw'o years.
In Germany a patent is revoked if its owner has
failed to work it there “ to an adequate ex-
tent.” The English provision (section 22 of the
Patents Designs and Trades Marks Act, 1883)
is peculiar :
If on the petition of any person interested it is proved
to the Board of Trade that, by reason of the default of a
patentee to grant licenses on reasonable terms (a) the
patent is not being worked in the United Kingdom; or (b)
that the reasonable requirements of the public with re-
spect to the invention cannot be supplied ;or (c) that
any person is prevented from w'orking or using to the
best advantage an invention of which he is possessed,
the Board may order the patentee to grant licenses on
such terms as to the amount of royalties, security for
payment, or otherwise, as the Board, having regard to
the nature of the invention and the circumstances of the
case, may deem just, and any such order may be en-
forced by mandamus.
A deputation recently waited on the Board of
Trade to ask for an amendment of this section
in as far as the word “ default ” is concerned.
It is held that the foreign patentees are hot in
“default” unless they “refuse”—and they
take good care to neither grant nor refuse.
The deputation represented the calico-
printing, dyeing, bleaching, and chemical in-
dustries, all of which claim to be hampered by
the devices of the foreign patentee who lives
up to his privileges without attending to his
responsibilities, and thus coal-tar dyestuffs, cer-
tain pharmaceutical productions, anti-pyrin,
etc., are kept at combination-prices in England.
I would make patents free, easy and accessible,
but would insist on their being worked in the
country —-without any of the roundabout rigma-
role of the English Act. Further, I would put
a tax on the profits of all inventions, reserving
to the State the right to buy up those inven-
tions at a capitalisation of those profits. The
present patent laws of the world are a menace
to the masses of the people. If some costless
force were invented to-morrow and patented,
there would be such a revolution against the
slave-trade that would then be possible for
the inventor, that all patents would be swept
away. All the homes of civilisation (those
of the patentee and his syndicate excepted)
would suffer in the multiplication of machinery.
This sudden assault on the vested interest of
laborers is not likely to happen, Keely not-
withstanding. The danger is worse than that.
A multitude of patentees are at work, under-
bidding the craftsman and the worker. In
place of two men, they put a machine run by a
small boy. The linotype in Melb. and Sydney
sends scores of comps, to the wallaby-track ;
&c., &c. I look forward to the time when
machinery will do most of the work, and the
people will have all the proceeds to themselves.
But, meanwhile ? Well,- we don’t want to stop
the inventors who are hastening on the Good
Times. But we don’t want all the Good Times
to be left to good old Posterity. So let us get
a rational system of patents right away.—
Gambler.
The telephone tunnels in Pitt-street, Sydney,
which were constructed by day-labor, are,
apparently, more or less of a failure. There is
no evidence, so far, as to the extent of the
failure; the work may be shoddy all through,
or there may be only one or two weak spots in
it, and even they may be greatly exaggerated ;
but apparently something is more or less wrong.
On the strength of the very little that is known,
or rumored, about the work, however, the
aggregate Fat Man has risen with beautiful
unanimity to point out that day-labor is a
failure, and that the only really reliable institu-
tion is the contractor. When the dreadful
revelations were made about the Bare Island
fort, and when the painful story of Sydney
Town Hall foundations came to light, and
during the recent trouble over the Sydney
sewers, the same person sang a different song in
a very different key. These things and many
dozen more proved that certain contractors
were dishonest, or shoddy, or inefficient, or
that the inspection was faulty, but no respect-
able individual pointed to them as evidence
that the whole contracting system was a public
robbery. On the other hand, a single failure,
or alleged failure, under the day-labour system
is held up as evidence that the day-labor
system is a failure all round. If the Sydney
telephone tunnels are as bad as alleged, they
certainly prove that the supervision by the
departmental officers must have been beneath
contempt, and that day-labour, with equally
bad supervision, can be almost as inefficient as
the contract system of which Bare Island fort
is so beautiful a sample. At the same time it
seems to be a good deal cheaper, and it is cer-
tainly less dishonest. The inspector may, and
does, receive tip from the single contractor ; he
can’t very well do so from 50 or 100 men
working on their own, for then the secret would
be too widely spread, and the hat would have
to pass round too conspicuously.
In his professional reverence for the estab-
lished order of things, the R.C. Archbishop of
Melbourne has fired off the jubilee doctrine
(an echo of Card. Moran) that “ any Aus-
tralian who advocates separation from Great
Britain must be either a knave or a dotard.”
The emblem of British rule is a Crown, and in-
asmuch as “cutting the painter ” means purifi-
cation from royal influences, social and politi-
cal, a Republican enthusiast in this country
must be either foolish or knavish. And, since
there are Republicans who can show reasonable
cause for supposing that Australia would not
suffer in public health, strength or moral tone
through separation—would not be more ex-
posed to foreign attack, or less likely to pull
through any trouble of that sort if it came, or
feel any the worse for haying a new and original
national sentiment, instead of a stale, second-
hand article which can never weld the rising
generation into a new brotherhood— The Bul-
letin would like to know where the knavish-
ness of the said Republicans conies in ? Roman
Catholic Carr merely talks through his archie-
piscopal neck the talk of every potentate
whose power, built on superstition, is strength-
ened by human nature’s grovel. He echoes
the parrot-cry of “loyalty” because loyalty to a
despotic form of government is R.C. religion.
Archbishop Carr’s little section of the Church
couldn’t exist apart from His Majesty the
Pope; therefore, any Catholic who talks of
breaking away from any ancient authority is a
damnable heretic, unless he be a pitiable ass.
It is well to enquire into the holy political
utterances of these good prelates of the Church,
and look for the milk in their cocoanuts. An
archbishop, discussing mundane affairs, is
generally accepted by his flock as a critic in
whom there is no tendency to error, and no
wilful blindness to facts His apparent un>
worldliness makes him a formidable enemy to
the cause lie doesn’t approve of. He seems to
stand afar off, and study the subject through an
inspired telescope And yet. all the time, he is
nothing purer and wiser than a red-hot adher-
ent of one monarch, preaching general devotion
to monarchies for private business reasons,
One of the gravest offences, and rightly so, that
can be committed under the new Vic. Factories
Act is for an employer to discharge a workman
on the latter giving evidence against him in a
court of law. No charge of the sort has yet
been laid in the province, though- a corres-
pondence which has been going on in the local
Herald certainly indicates that one prosecu-
tion should have taken place, and causes
people to wonder why none has happened so
far. A few weeks back, a fashionable restau-
rateur was fined for overworking his waitresses,
and six of the girls were subpoenaed by the
prosecution to give evidence as to their hours.
They told the truth, but, as is usual in such
cases, did their best for defendant by asserting
that they were as wpll treated as they ever
wished to be, and they had never worked in such
an easy place before. The girls left the court,
and before another week ended they had all
been told to find other places. This fact was
published in the Herald, and instantly pro-
voked a reply from the defendant stating that
two of the girls had. been dismissed before the
prosecution took place, and that the remaining
four had resigned out of sympathy. Next
evening a letter came from one of the waitresses
denying this, and averring that, immediately
they returned from court on the day of the
case, defendant told the result to her husband,
who cried loudly, “Then clear the lot of them
out of this.” A further denial closed the argu-
ment, but surely, in the face of such contra-
dictory evidence, the case is one worthy of
being investigated.
A New Reading of the N S. Wales
Defamation Act.
The decision of Mr. Justice Simpson in the case
of Allen v. Willis came as a surprise and a shock
to the legal profession. Ninety-nine lawyers out
of every hundred in N.N.W. would, a fortnight
ago, have given it as their opinion that, under the
Defamation Act, the printing-plant with which a
libel had been printed was, in the event of a ver-
dict being obtained against the editor or proprie-
tor, liable to execution, no matter into whose
possession it passed after the publication of the
libellous matter. In fact, that the liability to
seizure was an encumbrance on the title to the
plant, and that any purchaserboughtsubjecttothis
liability. The Bulletin, indeed, has known more
than one case where the purchaser, under such
circumstances, “caved in,” thinking it a waste of
money to test the question. This view is now held
to be erroneous; it is not the law, and Judge
Simpson has decided that it never was. In 1895
one Allen obtained a verdict for libel against
Truth newspaper, then owned by Messrs.
Willis, Norton, and others. For two years
the sheriff’s officers were kept at bay ; but
at last they succeeded in executing the
writ of ii. fa., and took possession of Truth’s
printing-plant. Plaintiff, however, was not yet
cpiite out of the wood, for Mr. John Norton put
in a claim to the goods levied on, and the sheriff
interpleaded. The matter came on for hearing
before Judge Simpson, and Norton proved that,
since the date of the verdict, he had become sole
owner of the property levied on ; Allen neverthe-
less contended that the plant was liable to execu-
tion in the hands of anybody, and based his
claim on the 13th section of the Defamation Act,
which provides
That whenever any person shall be convicted either in a
civil or criminal proceeding- of printing and publishing a
defamatory libel, the plaintiff, or prosecutor, in whose
favor judgment shall have been given, shall be at liberty
under his writ of execution to levy the costs damages . .
out of the whole of the type, presses, or printingmaterials
whatsoever belonging to the person whose types, presses,
or printing materials, or any part thereof, may have been
used in printing such defamatory article, as well as out
of the property of the defendant on the record.
At first blush these words seem to support the
plaintiff’s contention; but a closer examination
will show that they do not. To put the matter
briefly, the argument is that the words, “ belong-
ing to the person whose types, &c., have been used
in printing,” mean and should be read as “belong-
ing to any person,” &c. The alteration of the one
word gives an entirely different meaning to the
phrase. No authority was cited for thus altering
the plain words and meaning of an Act of Parlia-
ment, and such a procedure would be repugnant
to every principle governing the construction of
statutes. Whether Parliament intended to use
“any ” in lieu of “ the ” is a question that cannot
now be answered : the intention of Parliament,
for judicial purposes, can only be shown by
the language used, though it is probable that
the good old Tory crowd which passed the De-
famation Act did mean to make the path of the
newspaper proprietor as stony as possible. Judge
Simpson decided that, as the plant now belongs
to Mr. Norton, it cannot be seized, and that the
Act refers only to the person whose types, etc.,
were used in printing the libel—that is, to the
person owning at the time of the printing—and
not to a subsequent purchaser. No appeal lies to
the lull Court from the Judge’s decision ; but, in
this, case, that seems a small matter, for there can
be little doubt that his opinion is good law This
decision ought to do something towards stopping
speculative libel actions against newspapers, for
hitherto the “ plant” has always been considered
the very “safest asset” out of which to realise a
possible verdict and the inevitable costs.
The Story of Thomas Suffield.
The Bulletin has received this letter
Ripon Rural District Council.
0. P. P. Edmundson, Council Offices,
Solicitor, Clerk. Ripon, Yorkshire,
March 20th, 1897.
Dear Sir, —I have seen in the local press some verses
(taken from The Bulletin) said to have been written by
Thomas Suffield, who is (so it is said) undergoing a sen-
tence of 10 years’ penal servitude for a (supposed) criminal
assault on a servant girl. Some of Suffield’s old school-
fellows in Wensleydale (of whom I am one) are very
anxious to know the full particulars of this unfortunate
affair, and also in what way they can most effectually
give him a helping hand.
VVe knew Suffield for many years as a boy and man, and
we know that he was perfectly incapable of such an act as
that for which he was convicted, and nothing- short of the
most convincing evidence will lead us to suppose that
one who was always noted for his chivalry and gentle
behaviour to women could in so short a period of time
have so degenerated as to be guilty of such a crime.
I thought poor Suffield was dead years ago, and it was
quite a revelation to us to find he was still living. A reply
will greatly oblige.
Yours, faithfully,
0= F. P. Edmundson.
The Editor of The Bulletin,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
And in response The Bulletin relates this story.
*.* * *
At a quarter to eleven in the morning of Sun-
day, 21st Dec., 1890, a young woman passed out
of the residence of Thomas Croudace, J.P., near
Lambton, N.S.W., where she “was employed as
housemaid. Her name was Ann Chambers. She
was 22 years of age, and is described as being of
medium height for a woman, strongly-built and
well-nourished, but of a rather coarse, strumous
constitution, with dull eyes and sallow complexion.
Her intelligence seems to have been sluggish, and
she had the docility of disposition implied in the
phrase ‘‘no will of her own.” Of characteristic
feminine type, in fact —very affectable, somewhat
sheepish, and attractive to many domineering
males Her reputation was excellent.
Ann Chambers walked out of the grounds sur-
rounding Mr. Croudace’s house and turned her
face towards Lambton township. She was going
to visit her mother, a miner’s wife living at Hamil-
ton, another township reached by tram from
Lambton. The family were English, and had not
been long in Australia. Ann Chambers had been
employed at Croudace’s for 17 weeks.
A few yards down the Lambton road, Ann
Chambers turned into a by-path which shortened
the distance by cutting off a corner. Within the
ground contained between the path and the road
was a cottage occupied by Croudace’s gardener
and his family. With them boarded Thomas Suf-
field, driver of a pumping-engine at the neigh-
boring Lambton colliery, of which Croudace was
manager.
Thomas Suffield was then 32 years of age—a
well-built, good-looking fellow, liked and esteemed
by all who knew him. He was born in Wensley-
dale, Yorkshire, England. During his youth his
family was well-to-do, and he was brought up re-
spectably and received a good education. It is
stated that he has a wife and child in England in
comfortable circumstances ; that his father having
been ruined by speculation Suffield was left depen-
dent on his wife, and quarrels followed ; and that,
being taxed with living on her bounty, he separated
from her and came to Australia some time in the
eighties. For a while he resided at Maitland, 1
where he was caretaker of the local cricket ground;
He came to Lambton with a surveying party,
which broke up owing him some .£5O or £6O for
wages He had been living with the Warrens
about five months.
* * * *
As Ann Chambers was passing aiong the path
by the cottage she looked up and saw upon the
verandah, a few yards away, the gardener’s
wife and eldest daughter, and Suffield. She did
not stop, but walked quickly on to catch the tram.
She did not know Suffield, had never spoken to
him, and that was the second time she had seen
him.
Suffieid had his dinner, and in the afternoon went
for a walk in Lambton Park. He returned shortly
before 8 o’clock, had his tea, changed his walking
clothes to white moleskin trousers and blue shirt,
and lay down in his bedroom before going on a 16-
hour shift at the pit. The gardener went to bed at
8.30. At 9.30, their usual bed-time, his wife
bathed two younger children, a girl of six and a
boy of two years, and the little boy went into
Suffield’s room to say good-night, Suffield was
lying on his bed, reading by candlelight, and the
boy remained about ten minutes playing with him.
An elder sister then went to the door and called,
the boy to go to bed, and he came soon after-
wards. It was then nearly ten o’clock.
The gardener’s wife and daughter stayed up till
a quarter to twelve, reading. Suffield had a bad
cold, and they heard him coughing at intervals.
At twenty minutes to eleven the wife, think-
ing he was asleep, went to call him to go to the
pit, as she frequently did by his desire at various
times, since he had no stated hour of departure.
His door was open, and he was still reading, so
she did not disturb him. Just before going to
bed she went to call him again. He was sound
asleep, and she had to knock several times before
he woke and thanked her. Shortly after twelve
Suffield went to his work at the pit, and did not
return till just before tea-time on the same day
(Monday),
There was a large window in Suffield’s room,
but the lower sftsh was kept closed because a
snake had got into the room a short time previ-
ously ; and, as one of the pulley-cords was
broken, this sash could not be raised without a
considerable grating noise—easily audible in the
next room where the gardener’s wife and daughter
sat. Further, Suffield’s boots were not in his
room, and he could not leave the room, by the
door without being seen.
* » » *
Nevertheless, Ann Chambers declared that at
about ten o’clock she was criminally assaulted, in
front of Croudace’s house, by Thomas Suffield,
the man whom she had twice seen, had never
spoken to, and who, according to the sworn testi-
mony of two independent witnesses, was at that
time lying on his bed with his boots off, between a
quarter and half-a-mile away.
Ann Chambers stated that she saw her mother,
returned to Lambton, and walked thence to Crou-
dace’s. The distance is about a mile, by a lonely
bush road, and between Lambton and Croudace’s
there was only one cottage beside the gardener’s.
When she reached Croudace’s gate she saw Suf-
field sitting upon it. He said “ Good-night ” ; she
did not reply, but passed through the small gate
adjoining and walked briskly towards the house.
When she had gone to a spot about 350 yards
from the gate and about 35 yards from the heuse,
he knocked her down and violently assaulted her.
Ihis was between 10 o’clock and 10 minutes past
10. Ann Chambers screamed, and Mr. Croudace,
who had just got into bed, heard her and
diately put his head oitt of the window to listen.
His bedroom-windows were always left open,
unless it was a wet night. He heard a second
scream, and at once coo'-eed clearly and loudly.
The young woman screamed again, and Mi\
Croudace coo-eed once more, shouted “I am
coming,” put on his trousers and slippers, and
rushed downstairs. His son Frank had also heard
the screaming, and came down with him. They
ran across the grass plot which extends for some
30 yards in front of the house, vaulted the low
picket fence, and found Ann Chambers lying
crouched up a few feet away, much frightened and
upset, but quite conscious and able to answer
questions intelligently.
* * * *
From Lambton to Croudace’s, according to tho
evidence of Thomas Croudace, J.P., at Suffield’s
trial, is “ about a mile ” —say, 20 minutes’ walk
for a woman—much of the way uphill.
Ann Chambers, in her evidence at the polioe-
court, swore:—
I reached Lambton about 20 minutes to 10 ; I got out at
the tram terminus at Lambton and went to Julia Scott’s
aunt, accompanied by Julia Scott, who was with me from
Wallsend. I only remained there for about five minutes.
We came out; left for Croudace’s; Julia Scott accom-
panied me as far as Croudace-street; she bade me good-
night, and I went on by myself. Mr. Croudace’s place
from there (Croudace-street) is about a mile.
Say five minutes to reach Julia Scott’s aunt,
five minutes there, five minutes to Croudace-
street, and 20 minutes home—and Ann Chambers
reached Croudace’s at 10.15 p.m.
Julia Scott, at the police-court—
The tram reached Lambton about 20 minutes past 9 . .
we were at Miss Scott’s about 10 minutes, and then went
to Croudace-street, where Ann Chambers left me
Say 5 minutes to Julia Scott’s aunt, 10 min.
there, 5 min. to Croudace-street, and 20 min.
home—and Ann Chambers reached Croudace’s at
10 o’clock.
James Campbell, at the police-court—
I passed Mr. Croudace’s place, going towards Lambton,
at about 15 or 10 minutes to 10. I met a female at the
junctioh of New Lambton and main Charleston roads ; I
was coming towards the town and the female was going
towards Croudace’s ; no one was with her ; she was going
at a middling pace. ... I got to my place at 5 minutes
to 10 by my time; I think I would cover the distance
from where I met the girl to my place in 6 minutes, and
certainly under 10 minutes.
Say, roundly, he passed Croudace’s at 9.45 ; met
Ann Chambers, 9.50 ; reached home, 9.55. Then
Ann Chambers reached Croudace’s at 9.55 p.m.
Ann Chambers at the trial, presumably after
learning J ulia Scott’s and J nines Campbell’s evi-
dence at the police-court—
It was about 20 minutes to 10 when I parted from Julia.
(Not when she “reached Lambton,” this time.)
So Ann Chambers reached Croudace's at 10 o’clock.
Thomas Croudace, J.P., said at the trial that
he heard Ann Chambers scream “ shortly after he
went to bed at 10 o’clock” —“and as I had just
got into bed,” he said at the police-court.
Frank Croudace, at the police-court, heard the
scream “about 10 minutes past 10.”
Say they took 5 to 10 minutes to get downstairs
and 5 minutes to carry her in. Croudace, J.P.,
said she fainted while they were carrying her,
and was unconscious for fully 20 or 30 minutes;
and when she came round, says Frank (p.c. evi-
dence), I went for Dr. Stapleton, who was called
(p.c. evidence) “about 11.”
* * * *
Ann Chambers’ police-court evidence is plainly
erroneous. Campbell’s watch may have been a
little way out. An analysis of the whole produces
the following
Approximate Time-Table of Assault on Ann Chambers.
9.40 p.m.—Left Julia Scott at Lambton.
; 9.55 p.m. —Met Campbell.
: 10.0 p.m.—Reached Croudace’s gate and saw and fully
recognised Suffield.
?. 10.5 p.m. —Walked 350 yards.
.10.5 p.m. \ Was assaulted ; “ fought like a
tigress for her honor’s sake” (p.c. evi-
dence of Croudace, J.P.); screamed,
and was answered by Croudace’s coo-ees
to l and shouts; had her jacket torn, her
skirt torn from the band, &c. ; her
clothes covered with blood ; assault
i ; fully consummated (trial evidence of
Dr. John Harris); left crouched on her
10.15 p.m. J side, terrified, but perfectly conscious.
10.15 p.m. 1 Interval of two minutes for the ,vil-
to V lain to escape—it’s little enough, but he
10.17p.m. J was no slouch, whoever he was.
10,18 p.m, Croudaces reach scene of assault.
K i l _. ' * * * * *
Attention is directed to the remarkable conduct
of Thomas Suffield,
Who (the Crown suggested) kept a mistress,
Who (as he says himself) could have gratified his
passions in Lambton or Newcastle any night, of
the week without risk, with comparative comfort,
and with some reciprocity,
And who, nevertheless, being a man of the
highest character and high intelligence, risked
his liberty and his life to brutally assault,
Not on the mile-long lonely bush road,
Not near the gate where he met her.
But 35 yards from her employer’s house,
Almost under her employer’s open windows,
Just after her employer’s bedroom-candle had
been blown out at 10 o’clock at night,
A woman whom he had previously seen once in
his life, that morning,
Whom he had permitted to clearly identify him
as he sat on the gate
Continuing his assault after her screams had been
answered from the house,
Completing it and vanquishing the resistance
of a sturdy woman of 22 in less than 10 minutes, -
with coo-ees coming from the bedroom windows
and a man hanging over the balcony close by—
Then decamping and leaving no trace of his
presence,
Entering the bedroom he had left—"which two
women swear he could not leave or enter without
their knowledge, and did not leave or enter,
Walking or running, in order to accomplish all
this, threequarters-of-a-mile or more without his
boots on,
Wearing clean white moleskin trousers and
clean blue shirt, and not getting upon them one
speck or spot or stain, though the girl was stained
and bleeding terribly,
Not getting one scratch or mark or bruise, in
this terrible ten-minutes’ struggle with the girl,
who “ fought like a tigress for her honor’s sake,”
and was bruised all over,
And then turning out to do a 16-hours wrestle .
with a Tangye pump on top of everything i ! !
" 'Smart man, this 1
* • « *
And there was found an Attorney-General to
file a bill in such a case, and a jury to convict in it,
and a Judge to approve of the conviction, and a
series of , Ministers of Justice to support it and
burke enquiry regarding it—and Suffield went
to rot in gaol for 10 years with hard labor, where-
of he has rotted six.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1896
ASSETS ... ... ’
Increase in Assets during 1896
SURPLUS
Increase in Surplus during 1896
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896
£46,161,239
3,284,283
8,995,246
652,744
190,646,265
540,108
,-yXr Life OffiTto «! e A w'Jdd T ' ES °" ever >' ,tand " d ot valuation LARGER than that of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, ML C •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ’
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S. W.
Your
Picture
Should portray your per-
feet likeness—as you are—
not as the Photographer
thinks you ought to be.
We don’t retouch pic-
tures out of all likeness to
the original.
Our IDEAL Portraits
are as good as modern
methods make them.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portrai s,'*
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- ( gy :
ment in Permanent Bromide or ( f/O
Opal Any style or pjse. No extras,)
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor no stairs )
OPPOSITE main entrance to new MARKETS 8
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Criterion Elsie Adair Co.
Her Majesty’s “ a Night Out.”
J IVOLI Rickards’ Variety Co.
Ofkra House “ II Trovatore. ,r
® GYAL “ Johanna,”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “The Sign of the Cross."
Royal. “ a Life of Pleasure.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “Rip Van Winkle.”
Miss Elsie Adair’s modest little vaudeville
show duly _ broke out at Sydney Criterion last
week and is still there. The most distinct im-
pression it leaves on the mind is that Miss Elsie
is a dashed nice girl—in fact she is the kind of
girl who cannot be described by any other adjec-
tive in the language. The stage variety lady feels
bound to smile upon her audience at all times ;
too often the smile consists of a tired, perfunctory
dragging of the mouth towards the ears, but in
Miss Adair’s case it looks bright and spontaneous,
and she creates an impression that she is bubbling
over with happiness and thoroughly enjoying her-
self. If she is really suffering anguish from her
corn, or is a world-weary martyr with a deformed
and malignant toe-nail, and that bright smile is
only hollow pretence covering a broken heart,
then Sapphira wasn’t a circumstance to Elsie
Adair. As a dancer the Amurrikan lady is neat
and graceful, and she lends a new aspect to the
weary skirt-dance when she makes her drapery
fly up to the ceiling in the form of a lily. Five
separate dances are set down against Elsie
Adair’s name on the programme, but one of them
—on the opening night, at least—was performed
by Miss Vivienne liagmar, who doesn’t seem
to get the credit she deserves. The show
Btarts with a small idyll about a little
girl and a burglar and a moral parent. The little
girl and her house-breaker deserve great credit,
but when the malefactor and the moral parent
start repenting together the tale grows somewhat
maudlin. The plain burglar getting away with
the spoons is understandable, but the contrite
burglar moved to tears by a child in her night-
arouses a certain amount of suspicion. The
remainder of the programme is reasonably good,
but not absolutely staggering, variety business,
including a song about a lost child, breathed by
some person invisible, and illustrated by limelight
views of a very small girl being found in the street
by an enormous policeman. It isn’t a very large
programme to fill up an entire evening, but it
manages to get through all right.
** * *
The Potter-Bellew season at Her Majesty’s
is already a good deal more than half-through, so
it is wasted energy to go into detail about it. The
most notable, new feature about this latest version
of “ Borneo ” was Cecil Ward’s Mercutio, a cheer-
ful individual who went down in good spirits
before an overwhelming Cyril Keightley as Tybalt.
Mrs. Potter no novel impressions be-
hind her. She is the same marvellous being
as of old, with the same capacity for rising
at one moment almost to greatness and then
dropping into shrill, eccentric mediocrity and
writhing with much jewellery on. No one knows
exactly what Mrs. Brown-Potter will do next ;
she is an original person wriggling over much fur-
niture and spreading two white arms to the four
winds of Heaven, wherefore her audience remem-
bers her afterwards as Mrs. Pale Totter. Yet,
even in her pallid totter, there are traces of a
capacity for better things. The season ends on
Friday,night with a final performance of “ Fran-
cillon,” (“La Tosca is put on for an after-
noon show the same day), and on Saturday
Paul ton’s co. opens in “A Night Off.” The
new co. arrives with a satisfactory refer-
ence from its last place in Melbourne to the
effect that it is clean, honest and not given
to. drink, understands its work thoroughly, and
can be trusted alone with the cold meat any time,
also that it invariably sweeps under the bed. The
new co. will be received with heart-felt gratitude.
With Mrs. Potter reviving old Shakespeare at
Her Majesty’s, and Farley reviving old operas at
the Opera House, and Robert Henry resurrecting
old horrors at the Standard, and the Broughs just
finished calling up old familiar comedies at the
Cri., there has been almost too much revival in
Sydney of late.
** # *
“ II Trovatore ” is doing a turn at Sydney
Opera House this week, and is, so far, decidedly
the best production of the Farley season. The
chorus has either been streng hened, or else it
isn’t so low-spirited as it was and contrives to look
more numerous, and is now a strong and capable
combination. The lady with the exceedingly thin
legs, alluded to a few weeks back, has either
padded them, or boiled herself down, or some-
thing ; anyhow, her scragginess hasn’t caught the
writer’s eye for a good while now. The lady with
the amazingly stout legs is also less prominent,
and consequently things don’t run to such sudden
extremes as they did. Some very good scenery
appears in “ II Trovatore,” and the co.—especially
Misses Glendenning and Maud Lita and Edward
Farley—does very good work all through. Farley,
dressed in red and purple millinery, rages through
the opera in deep bass and with a drawn sword,
and is always on the point of impaling somebody,
only a number of men with impossible halberds
generally get in the road. A halberd is a long
thing with a little blunt spike on top, and evi-
dently the bearer stood about ten feet off his enemy
and drove the spike in the top of his head, and
then ran round him to enlarge the wound till it
led to fatal results. Or else he entangled the spike
in his enemy’s clothes and shook him to death.
** * *
The breaking of many dishes goes on
nightly at Sydney Royal, where Maggie Moore
still raises Cain on the premises of Uncle Harris.
Further consideration only makes “Johanna”
more unfathomable than it was before, and all the
people who prove in the end to be the other
people’s relations by a former marriage who were
supposed to be dead, grow more shadowy and
tangled, like a confused boa-constrictor in the
twilight. This paper accordingly gives the matter
up as a problem that is past explanation. Busi-
ness keeps remarkably pood at the Royal, so far.
Some old-established whisky advertisements, how-
ever, have vanished off the drop-scene and been
replaced by announcements concerning some-
body’s Check Pills for Striped People, and some-
body else*B stuff in a bottle which is supposed to
be good for a sinking sensation at the pit of the
stomach.
# % -* *
Bellman and Lottie Moore have joined the
Tivoli co., the latter being the lady whose very
neat somersault aroused commendation some time
ago at the Palace. In those days Miss Moore’s
two little green shoes were wont to fly over her
little brown head in a tantalising fashion, dis-
playing about one inch of stocking and a quarter-
inch of white skirt, and though many people went
there regularly in hopes of seeing a little more
skirt, the event never came off. Therefore, it is
just possible that she won’t be so very much of an
attraction after all; when the public realises that
nothing is going to happen while the lady’s feet
are spinning over her back hair, where is the joy
of it? The Selbinis leave this week, and the
Avolos, described as horizontal bar and perch per-
formers, take their places on Saturday.
Hf * * *
James MacMahon has laid in a number of
war subjects at his Cinematographe in Pitt-street,
Sydney. One of them concerns a battle between
Spaniards and Cuban insurrectionists, and others
show some exciting scenes in the recent unplea-
santness between the Ottomans and Greeks.
These latter tend to confirm the opinion that the
sons of Leonidas would have been wiser if they
had. undermined their enemies with their more
familiar weapon, the 12 unripe bananas in
a bag for 4d., or the two sodden pieces
of fried jew-fish in brown paper for 6d.,
instead of taking .to the sword. The Aus-
tralian in general is cordially recommended to
study these views. Many of him has a vague
craving for war through seeing Major Neild in his
uniform ; and the fact that it is a dirty, and tat-
tered, and gory thing, and has no briiliantine on
its hair at all, can’t be too firmly impressed on his
mind.
** * *
Melbourne Princess’s is in a state of pre-
paration for “The Sign of the Cross.” Paulton
has proceeded on tour with his dry humor, which
will be none the worse for a little damping at the
outset. George Lauri took a farewell benefit, and
made a final appearance on Tuesday. To-night
(Thursday), the sassiety amateurs are producing
themselves in “Lelamine,” an opera that has
fairly earned, oblivion, for the last time, and if
theyeverdo .it again, The Bulletin will smack
them hard, in a manner of speaking. “ The
Sign of the. Cross” is advertised to set up its
Early Christian influence this Saturday (July 3rd).
Various religious denominations are understood to
lie awaiting the soulful spectacle with tears in
their eyes, whilst the unconverted classes likewise
look forward hopefully to an entertainment that
unites the Nonconformist conscience, the Salva-
tion Army, and Mossy Isaacs in the bonds of
brotherhood.
** * *
“The Hermit’s Bell,” a new romantic
military opera, in three acts, will be staged at the
Bijou three times next week. The Victorian
Operatic Society—-having no connection with the
. Lelamine ” faction, or the other Society which
is pretty good in “The Gondoliers”—takes this
particular charity scheme in hand. Therefore the
performance may count upon the patronage of the
two rival companies, who will certainly come
along and snort at it. Melbourne’s operatic
amateurism is just now an interesting study.
** * *
At the Opera House latest arrivals are
Allan and Hart, and Miss Myers, a nice young
soprano lady from the W. and M. company. . Phil
Newbury arrived early last week, since when the
average all tenors have mostly gone into retire-
ment for the purpose of tearing their hair.
** * *
a The one remarkable feature in a Jubilee
fete, at Melb. Exhibition building, was the broad
expanse of disgustingly dirty floor. The Exhibi-
tion building is a place where holiday mobs
assemble once in a way, and the assemblage is
usually so large, and so addicted to squeezing
together all the time, that nobody can see any
floor worth mentioning. Last Saturday the fete
happened to be a comparative failure, and the
floor was much in evidence. The dirt from half-a-
million boot-soles has been trodden into the boards;
a thousand expectoration stains, ancient and
modern can be counted from any standpoint; and
the battlefield is strewn with unpleasant-looking
bits of lf the Exhibition trustees have a
proper consideration for public health and a whole-
some objection to fleas, they may as well send in a
charwoman and a ton of soap.
** * *
Planquette’s pretty setting of “Rip Van
Winkle ” was revived at Melbourne Alexandra on
Saturday night. Two weeks of “The Grand
Duchess had called attention to Howard Ver-
non’s valour in attempting to work up a business
at the fatal spot aforesaid, so the audience on
Saturday covered more space than usual. A
manager who can get the Alexandra half filled is
probably on the road to success. Still, the road is
long, and the weary traveller spares himself a lot
of trouble if he stops early and returns home by
the woods. Rip Van Winkle ” was never a first-
favorite opera m Australia. The story is popular,
in its old, languid way, and the music harmonises
with the story, but th 're isn’t quite enough
music to keep thii gs lively, or sufficient of
a heroine to gi\e the prim a - donna a
fair chance. Devoid of a heroine, and
not at all comic in character, ‘ * Rip ” is an
opera that needs a clever performance all round.
Vernon’s company includes two damsels who have
no pretentions to play principal parts. One of
them appeared as Hans in the last act, and the
orchestra immediately fell into a state of disorgani-
sation, as though it had seen a ghost. These
defects, are inexcusable seeing that the chorus,
which is altogether excellent, could furnish capable
young artists in place of the novices. The chorus
is marked W. and M. on most of the links,
and the mountain scenery makes a respect-
able background, also Miss Fannie Liddiard
sings and plays in two capacities for all
they are worth. Howard Vernon’s performance
of Rip tills the stage, although his singing voice is
in tatters, and Frank Gromann, said to be a mere
beginner as an actor, is, in that case, about the
cleverest beginner The Bulletin can call to mind.
He takes two character-parts capitally. Little
Gus Gregory is an eerie goblin, and Miss Alice
Mitchell puts in a dainty little dance.
** * *
The last nights of “A Life of Pleasure”
are announced at the Royal, but Bland Holt’s
large, smoky drama shows no particular signs of
wanting to take itself off yet awhile.
At Poverty Point .
Alice Dunning Lingard’s death is cabled. She was just
about the handsomest woman ever seen on the Australian
stage. She was a charming actress, and narrowly missed
being a great one ; also, she was as good as she looked.
An Australian lady writing from London to Tiib Bulle-
tin “ To-day, May 19th, saw the final exit of ‘ Beauty
Charley,’ otherwise Edward Charles Rylev. He was
playing in ‘The Yashmak,’ at the Shaftesbury, some
three weeks ago, when he broke a blood-vessel, and
death followed. The first part of the burial-service
was held at the quaint historic Chapel Royal in the
Savoy, which was completely filled by professionals who
came to pay their last respects. The service was simple
and short, and the address from the chaplain quite a
blending of the pulpit and the stage, for he acknowledged
‘as a man and a clergyman ’ that the work done in Lon-
don by the theatres was ‘ noble.’ A little lad with a voice
like a silver-flute sang ‘O Rest in the Lord’ most ex-
quisitely, and then the chaplain and choir conducted the
coffin down the church and through the curious little
churchyard to the gate, Chopin’s funeral march being
played on the organ. In the special book with the burial-
service, which was given to each, ‘ln Memoriain of
Edward Charles Ryley,’ his age was wrongly stated—he
was only 39, instead of 50 as therein recorded. Among the
ladies present, the best-known to Australians was Miss
Emily Soldene. Elton was there, his face grave for once.
Likewise Joseph Tapley and Lonnen, Musgrove, Lionel
Brough, George Moore, S. Coleman, Sydney Brough,
Captain Dorrien, John Le Hay and J. A. Harrison, secre-
tar.v of the Eccentric Club. And among the flowers
which covered the coffin and open hearse were tokens
from Australians in London as well as from his brothers
in arms.”
It was under protest, probably, that the theatre show-
nien fixed a t% loyal ’ device or two outside their respective
houses at jubilee time. They couldn’t be expected to get
much personal joy from contributing towards the illumi-
nations that kept people out in the streets. Yet they
had to appear cheerful when the industrious newspaper-
reporter called round, beforehand, to know' whether they
intended to make a costly display.
Miss Noney Seabrooke (Constance Fleming Johnstone)
has issued a writ, in the N.Q. Supreme Court, for defama-
tion of character against P’rank Thornton. Noney thinks
she has been defamed worth £2OOO. The suit will pro-
bably be heard (if it goes on) in Townsville. Frank left
Charters Towers for Rockhampton, at latest advice.
Reciter Charlotte Hem tiling's testimonial concert has
panned out over £lOO already, and more seems likely to
drop in yet. But how is it that Miss Charlotte hasn't
gone Ome ? It was a “ farewell ” ben.
. Spangles: “ Again the yarn about Barnato having
travelled Australia, as an acrobat, with a circus. There
is no evidence he ever was on our continent. Confounded
with Barney, a mule, and Bartolo, a contortionist.”
• theorbo : “Howard Vernon stages the ‘Grand Duchess’
in Melb. Rossini called Offenbach’s melodies ‘ One Finger
Music,’ as he tapped them off on the piano, yet not with
contempt, because of their unbounded invention. First
Melb. cast: Grand Duchess, Fanny Simonsen; Boom
Edward Farley; Fritz, Armes Beaumont. Then there
was witching Emelie Melville, whose swarms of young
admirers are now growing grey and bald.
Haresfoot: “ Miss Alma Stanley’s snack-snack of a
dance, in ‘My Friend from India,’ makes one think of
Cotterell, R. S. Smythe’s first little trump-card. Cotterell
who was a lengthy man, used to dance round funnilv
with a dummy-lady partner. Miss Stanley thus waltzes
with an imaginary gentleman, keeping up a droll conversa-
tion the while.
Haresfoot: “ Mrs. Potter, in ‘ The Ironmaster,’ makes
me think, as she ascends the staircase in her gauzy, or
l ra r,, r \, lovely white crapey, foamy, creamy long-trained
bridal dress, of Southey’s ‘ Cataract of Lodore.’ I never
saw a stage-bride before who looked real. How supremely-
natural the throaty half-whispered ‘Yes,’ w-hen her new-
made husband asks if she loves the other man.”
Melbourne Age, which had never heard of Phil. New-
bury until he was billed by Rickards, wrote : “ The Opera
House Co. will be strengthened this evening by the appear-
ance of Mr. Phillip Newbury, an English tenor-singer,
lately arrived in the colony.” And this is fame ! New-
bury was a Maoriland tenor before he went to England
He came back to this side of the world with Belle"Cole’
three or four years ago, and has sung in many concerts at
sundry times, at Melb. Town Hall and the Exhibition
Building. His engagement to Rickards started wdth a
long season in Sydney ; then he came to Melb. again, and
was hailed by the local reporter as a new-ehum seeking
“colonial experience.”
Died last week, in Melbourne, the widow of O H
Rogers, the famous comedian of Coppin and Harwood’s
palmy days. .Mrs. Rogers, who carried her years very
well, was well into the seventies.
J. C. Williamson is dead sure of a “Sign of the Cross”
boom in Melbourne. Coming after French farcical
comedy, which didn’t catch the public in a giddy mood
Wilson Barrett’s solemn pageant will be rushed. *
The late departed Bessie Clayton’s boast that her tor-
turesomy back-kick was a heaven-sent gift possessed by
herself alone, turns out to be somewhat* incorrech Miss
Florrie Green, of Melb., has in a large measure mastered
it, with but little prayer and fasting, she affirms, and she
makes it a far more attractive exhibition than did the
agile Bessie. The back-kick of Florrie is introduced in a
casual way, as though it were an easy trifle. Perhaps one
might more correctly describe it in football vernacular as
a half-back-kick.
Dear Bulletin, —The ways of theatrical management
often unreasonable. Howard Vernon and Fanny
Liddiard started a season of comic opera at Melbourne
Alexandra the other Saturday, when, owing to some
accident. The Grand Duchess” was sent off with an
apparently poverty-stricken advt. Therefore, the theatre-
gomg public, who note preliminary advts. and are influ-
enced by them, naturally assumed that this was to be one
more addition to the list of rough, contemptible produc-
tions at the same cheerless house. “ The Grand Duchess ”
proved to be a very acceptable entertainment, and a suc-
cession of small audiences - composed mainly of inveterate
theatre-goers who rank as critics among their friends—
gave it a good word. Having expected little, they were
more than pleased with what they got. But the manage-
ment wouldn t wait for proof of the commercial doctrine
that merit, in any line of article, must make some
headway. Favorable comment on “The Grand Duchess”
was only beginning to travel around when a chan»-e of
bill was announced, whereupon the public at large would
feel confirmed in their assumption that the Alexandra
opera season was a hopeless failure. Are the people who
stay away from a first show because they fancy it isn’t
£?. r J h v i lSlt ‘u e y Jj° 1)6 fctc hed by a rapid change of
bill. Not much. They are rather confirmed in their
false assumption.—Melbourne.
“ Make God Save the Queen at once” was the actual
wording of a telegram that passed over the N.S.W tele-
graph-wires, the other day, from a country Mayor to a
Sydney address. It subsequently transpired that, this
truculently blasphemous mandate merely had to do with
an order for a Diamond Jubilee transparency.
Young Farjeon, son of the novelist, and grandson of
Jefferson, the American actor, has recently carried off
the Goring Thomas Scholarship for composition at the
London Academy of Music. The prize has twioe not been
awarded because candidates were not up to the standard,
therefore young Farjeon’s “score" is all the more
creditable.
Harry Rickards Co. is said to have netted £l5OO from
a brief W.A. season.
Dan Fitzgerald left Naples, May 13, for London, via
Vienna and Rome, to secure new circus-talent.
Melb. : “Met Lachy M'Gowan in Bourke-st. to-day.
He pensively contemplates Bland Holt’s Theatre Royal
playbill. Lachy acted at the Royal on its opening-night,
in 1855, when he was Moses in ‘ The School for Scandal.’ ”
S.S. : “ Waxman Whelan’s imitations, as a feature of the
‘ Matsa ’ varieties, are good. Brough is particularly well
done, and Chirgwin is identical. The latter is a soft snap
to the mimic though, and one hears his falsetto wail
characteristically reproduced on every street corner.
But why, oh ! why, afflict a well-meaning audience with
a performance on an excruciating, one-stringed instru-
ment, when the merit lies only in the fact that the in-
fernal machine is contrived out of a cigar-box and half a
broom-handle ? Clever, perhaps, but let us pray it is not
to be followed by an endeavor on the part of the gifted
Whelan to sing ‘ The Death of Nelson ’ with a duck-egg
in his mouth.’’
Gordon painted the London scenery for the Bancrofts
production of the “ Merchant of Venice,” at the Prince of
Wales’ theatre, also their “ School for Scandal.” He went
to Venice to study first hand. Coglan’s washed-out Shy-
lock ruined the production.
Theorbo : “ What pretty musical conceits in the ‘ Sultan
of Mocha ’ ! Cellier here displays the flush of his power :
fluent as Sullivan, but not so abundant. The figure of
the poor fellow rises to memory, as he proudly conducted
his own ‘ Dorothy ’ at Melb. Princess’s.”
Somebody writes to say that a lady concerned in a re-
cent amateur performance had not a “ twang ” —as stated
by The Bulletin— but a Scotch accent. Can’t a Scotch
accent have a twang in it, anyhow ? Lord Hopetoun, for
instance, dropped his jaw and spoke very like a cockney
gutter-snipe. The “colonial twang,” may-be, is of
Scottish-Londonish descent.
Rokitansky, the famous Viennese pathologist, had two
sons —one a medico, the other a distinguished lyric singer.
The Prof., being asked what professions his sons adopted,
replied—“ One heals and the other howls.”
Theatre prices drop in London. At the New Century
Theatre, run by actress Elizabeth Robins, critic William
Archer, Editor Massingham, and manager Sutro, prices
for four performances will be 325. for four stall seats, 255.
for four d.c. seats, and 10s. a time for an upper box.
The “ splendiferous ” Johnnie who occupied the Age
seats on first nights for a time, and who dealt out jam to
the American girls with a ladle, has followed the twanged
divinities to America, and in his monthly letter to the Age
continues to burn incense at the shrine. In fact, judging
by his Age correspondence, there are no other people in
America worth mentioning.
Haresfoot: “Bland Holt has achieved an average of
between six and seven weeks’ run with four Melb. pro-
ductions, ‘One of the Best,’ ‘For England,’ ‘Derby
Winner,’ 1 In Sight of St. Paul’s,’ forming his premier
monetary season on record, and thoroughly rehabilitating
the Theatre Royal.”
Scripture drama catches on. When may we expect a
scripture pantomime ? The Flood would give plenty of
scope for spectacular effects —and a procession of the
animals entering the Ark w'ould certainly bring down the
house. Incidental music ready to hand: “The animals
went in twm by two,” &c., &c.
Regina Nagel, not long ago, was promised by the hos-
tess of Cliveden that she should have a send-off to
Europe early next year. Since the promise was given,
Baronet Clarke has quitted Melbourne’s sassiety circle,
and his widow’s schemes of patronage are unhappily laid
aside in deep mourning.
In one respect, Will Whitburn is like the sloore and
Burgess minstrels, whose custom it was not to perform
out of London —though the writer heard and saw' them at
Birmingham in 1880, when their “town” house was
closed for cleaning. Sydney is more interested in Whit-
burn than in a dozen imported stars.
Howard Vernon rather objected to having himself an-
nounced as manager in the Melb. Alexandra advts., on
the ground that he had no managerial reputation, and
therefore the public W’ouldn’t be influenced by his name
at the head of affairs. The show', said H.V., was the only
thing worth mentioning. What a contrast to the occa-
sional unknown managers whose very first idea is to stick
their portraits on the front page of the programme !
Paradis : “ Stage fashions, like history, repeat them-
selves. Romantic drama having come again, let me pro-
phecy that there will be a revival of the Chas. Mathews
light touch-and-go comedy, as distinct from the dab-
and-slab, the co rse fibre, the pigment laid on with the
finger, the approach to horse-play, of ‘ A Night Out ’ and
‘ My Friend from India,’ both exceedingly well acted, with
perfect nature, in ‘ Naturals,’ or fools, by Mr. Paulton.”
During the last bull-fight season (six months long)there
W'ere 478 bull-fights in Spain, at which Were killed 1218
bulls, valued at £60,000, and 5730 horses, valued at
£40,000. The most famous matador, Gueritta, in 68
fights killed 174 bulls, and received for his six months’
butchering £10,200. The U.S. Consul at Barcelona
declares that, instead of slumping, bull-fights are on the
up-grade in popular favor.
Pinero is w’riting a comic opera for Sullivan to hurdy-
gurdyise.
Th it sterling actress, Kate Bishop, has been engaged
for the new play, “You Never Can Tell,” by Bernard
Shaw'. She writes to a Sydney friend that salaries are
much higher now than w'hen she left London in ’B2, and
that she has settled down amongst her old London stage
friends without difficulty.
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only «£l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (162 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*


CYANIDE
OP POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
specialTterms
for
Forward Delivery.
\ Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
SYDNEY-63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
B
> .
i
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
“ tittle giant ”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effective and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason. Sole Agent,
239 SUSSEX-ST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SIR JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney :
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M‘Bean, Bowker& Co.,
Perth.
Hogan, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton.
Wm. Lennon & Co.,
Townsville
Australasian
Representatives :
PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
and Wellington, N.Z.
Assay Office 8s Chemical Laboratory,
Telephone!
2444. J
5 Moore-st., SYDNEY.
Ross, Ross & Co. financiers, 352 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, notify that money at very low interest is now
available on C. P. or Freehold Land. Owners writing to
this firm can always rely on prompt and straightforward
business.*
The Simpson Backboard.
Easier than a Buggy.
Stronger than a Dray.
No Vibration, as in an ordinary
Buckboard.
High Driving-seat.
Baggage Tray 6x3; two can camp
in it easy.
It’s a Buggy; it’s a Waggon; it’s Both.
SIMPSON,
Coachbuilder,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Pkrth—W. B. Gordon & Co.
GKRAiiDTOS—W. Meadowerof t.
T A GLIAFTYVQ
VICTORIA COFFEE PALACE,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
PERTH, W.A.
THE VICTORIA contains 58 Single and Double
Bathrooms, Lavatories, Music Room,
Billiard Room, &c.
Tariff - From 4s. to Bs. per Day.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The stupendous Ernest Terah Hooley’s scheme
for buying 1 up all the meat-freezing works in Australasia
and running them as one British syndicate is about the
shadiest device of the decade. Meat-freezing is the third
or fourth of our industries in point of importance ; it
represents £2,500,000 a year income, or rather more ; and
the idea of selling this bodily to J. Bull is alarming.
Nearly everything else is already sold or mortgaged to
Bull, and to sell everything to Bull seems rash, unless this
country proposes to be ultimately a nation of swagmen,
all humping a dingy drum towards the setting sun.
Hooley proposes to buy up the present companies, giving
them the full value of their assets and a bonus equal to
the last seven years’ dividends. As Hooley is thus willing
to give a lot more than the businesses are worth just now,
and as he proposes to take a huge bonus out of the thing
himself, and as there will be larger expenses through a
great and gorgeous London management and board
having to be maintained, and interest having to be paid
on a vast mass of debentures, the meat-freezing busi-
nesses, under the Hoolej' management, would have to pay
dividends on about three times their present capital—in
other words, they would have to earn at least three times
as much profit as they do now to pay as well as they do
now—-which is none too well.
There are just two ways of doing this. One is
to make the Britisher pay more for the meat. The other
is to make the Australian take less—a great deal less—for
the cattle. Hooley says that he is going to do the former,
and The Bulletin, for one, flatly disbelieves him. The
Hooley syndicate won’t have a monopoly of the British
meat-market; it will have to compete with the Yankee,
the Argentine, and others ; therefore, it can’t raise prices
as it pleases, or its competitors will cut it out and
damage its trade, and wreck the Hooley enter-
prise. On the other hand, the Hooley crowd could
cut down the prices paid to the Australasian pas-
toralist almost indefinitely. He must sell to the
freezing works, or, so far as concerns a very great part of
his output, not sell at all; and, when the Hooley enter-
prise owned every freezing works in the country, and con-
trolled all, or nearly all, the available shipping, and the
freezing accommodation at the other end, and the market
arrangements, and had a lien on the retailers—well,
there would be very little for it save to accept almost
any price the Hooley enterprise liked to offer.
Hooley’s cordial assurance that he intends making
the required profit by raising the price to the British
consumer, and his implied assurance that, even with
such great power in his hands, he wouldn’t dream
of cutting down prices to the producer, are too thin ; for-
tunes like Hooley’s are not made by showing needless
consideration to anybody. The Hooley freezing syndicate
would sweat the pastoralist down to the lowest point,
and make the pastoralist sweat everybody connected with
him ; and it would be the last straw on certain staggery
banks which are loaded down with unsaleable station pro-
perties ; and Queensland and M.L.— the two great meat-
raising provinces—would be practically Hooley, Limited,
* * » •
A wail comes "by cable from Westralia. Acting-
Premier Wittenoom, speaking at a Perth banquet, said
that he reckoned the year’s revenue to 30th June would
be £2,880,585, and that the surplus would reach £227,875.
Adding this to previous credit balances, the total surplus
would probably be £540,000. Then he added, tearfully,
that in the present state of the London market it would
be unwise to float another loan just now—the last one of
a million was onty floated in May—but “ the Government
could see its wayclear to finance the colony without
borrowing until the end of August.” Westralia has accu-
mulated close on £3,000,000 of new debt—something like
£2l for each inhabitant—within a year, and it actually
reckons it can get along for two months without any
further borrowing! !
» * • •
The British financier’s yearning to issue deben-
tures is unquenchable. The latest British idea is to com-
bine the City of Melbourne, Federal, Mercantile and
English and Australian Mortgage banks (all burst) in one
liquidation. This looks a decently sensible idea, as one
liquidation is less expensive than four. But though there
is absolutely nothing to be done except sell the assets as
soon and as profitably as possible, and pay as much as
possible in the £, it is proposed to start by establishing
a London office and board of directors, and creating a
nominal capital of £75,800, and issuing debentures to the
amount of £1,269,500 If the average British financier
were stranded alone on a raft in mid-ocean, the first thing
he would do would be to issue 3 per cent, debentures and
divide himself into preference and ordinary capital.
* * * *
The Modern Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Co., a big Melbourne concern which has been very
close in to a lee shore for several years, at last announces
that its difficulties are too much for it. For the year
ended 31st July, 1894, the Modern showed a loss of
£13,800. Then it persuaded its depositors to reduce
interest from 5 to 2£ per cent., and stated proudly that
the drift had been effectually stopped. For the .year
ended July, ’95, it lost £2630, and at July, ’96, there
was another loss of £11,431. Finally, in June, ’97, it
states that it has also lost its reserve-fund (£32,690), and
its entire capital (£198,897), and £96,176 of its-deposits,
and that, as property values are now, it is utterly broke.
The present value of the assets is set down at £375,824,
but as they only yield 3 per cent, net on this amount, and
as hardly anybody would buy land or bricks and mortar to
yield less than 4 percent., the chances are that they
wouldn’t sell, as things are, for more than £300,000. The
Modern proposes to reconstruct by giving the depositors
5 per cent, preference shares in exchange for their de-
posits. Any depositor who doesn’t yearn after preference
shares is to receive 12s. 6d. in the £ —not in cash, but in
3 per cent, deposit-receipts, payable in three, five, seven
and ten years. Present shareholders are to write off one-
half of the paid-up value of their shares, and are to come
in for profits on the other half when the preference crowd
has received three 5 per cent, dividends. If half the
depositors accept preference shares and get no dividend,
and things improve a little, this will just about stop thedrift.
Two-thirds of the depositors are in Britain, and everything
depends on them. The Victorian crowd expresses its
willingness, as usual, to take anything it can get and be
darned thankful. When any crowd of Australians goes
to a reconstruction meeting now, and gets away with its
clothes and its hat, it feels grateful.
Albury (N.S.W.) Borough Council is in the
midst of the periodical stench re finances. A committee
has dug out the fact that the town has been spending
£5OO a year more than its revenue for ten years past, ap-
parently without anybody observing the fact, and that
£3OOO of rates have been overdue for four years. The
utter pigheadedness of the N.S.W. municipal audit system
is mainly responsible for this state of things—which is the
normal state throughout the province. The auditor may
be a butcher or a cow-feeder or anything else; there is
absolutely no need for him to know anything about
accounts. He is elected by the ratepayers, most of whom
know nothing about accounts either, and are utterly
unable to judge whether he is fit for his billet or not.
And he is paid at a rate which doesn’t make it worth
while for an expert accountant to apply for the place ; in
other words, he is paid at the rate at which the butcher
or house-painter is willing to undertake the job. Munici-
palities want expert and independent State audit worse
than almost any other class of institution in N.S.W.
« • * a
Peru announces that it has ceased to coin silver,
and that the importation of silver coin is prohibited. The
silver countries keep dx-opping out one by one. If the bi-
metallio theories are correct, when they have practically
all dropped out something so very dreadful will be the
natural result that they should all be converted and take
to bi-metallism right off. Meanwhile, the prospects of the
silver market are not bright.
• * * *
The Victorian wheat - crop of ’97 pans out
7,000,000 bushels—less than half that of ’93 and ’94. Last
year it was still worse, being 5,600,000 bushels. The loss
by drought, even in the small province of Victoria, runs
to something like £4,000,000 in a year.
• * * *
Barlow, M.L.O. (Queensland), orating at the
meeting of the A.M.P. Society, said, in a lofty tone, that
the society need not be troubled with any fears about the
S.A. State Land Bank interfering with its mortgage busi-
ness. “It would merely relieve the society of the risk of
taking any of those questionable investments which, in a
weak moment, it might be tempted to accept. All doubt-
ful securities would naturally gravitate towards the State
institution because there the constituent with a vote
would have the member who wanted it to assist him.
From experience of politicians, any bank with which they
could interfere would be distinctly to the advantage of
so sound an institution as the A.M.P. Society.” Which
was a luckless statement, seeing that the S.A. State Land
Bank isn’t run by politicians but by independent Com-
missioners, while the A.M.P. Society is bossed by a poli-
tician and assistant-bossed by 14, or so, other politicians.
Possibly Barlow would like to support his case by some
remarks about the lamentable insolvency of the Post
Office Savings Banks, run by the State, as compared with
the well-known soundness of the Queensland National
Bank under private management ?
* •fj ’ * *
After Ist July all W.A. banks will make a half-
guinea charge on all current accounts opened. All
accounts that fall below £5O for three consecutive days
will be charged a half-guinea for that half-year—and the
same magic sum is to be the minimum charge on over-
drafts.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Board of Works incubus is
beginning to be felt in Melb. The question of differential
rating for the sewered and unsewered parts is looming
ominous. The £6OOO law-costs last year is causing talk,
looks bad for the public, and well for the Board’s finn of
solicitors, which includes a Minister of the Crown. Those
who oppose the Board system in toto are earnestly striv-
ing to force this Board to declare a stiff rate over the
whole area, sewered and unsewered alike. This will burst
up the whole concern, with pieces of Fitzgibbon on top.
Strange that Victoria should adopt such a system imme-
diately after it had been tried and found badly wanting in
London.
* * • *
The Colonial Sugar Co. advertises reduction of
wages at its N.S.W. mills—cane-cutters and laborers, 10
per cent, reduction, and men discharging cargo, Id. per
ton reduction. The notice concludes: “ The savings
effected will be devoted to reducing the loss sustained by
the farmers through the diminution of the sugar-duty.”
There might have been added, “Andto enabling the co. to
pay its usual 10 p.c. div.” Another brilliant illustration
of Freetrade- to the unfortunate bottom dog 1
* * * *
According to Labor-member M'Donnell, Bris-
bane (Q.) tramway drivers and conductors (the employees
of a private co.) are working for 245. for 80 hours work
per week.
• * * *
Chief Justice Madden has refused the “poor
mortgagee” leave to appeal to the Privy Council in
M’Cashill v. Commercial Bank. In this case the vendor
of certain land was in possession as a tenant under
an agreement with the purchaser, and the bank, as
mortgagee from the purchaser, strove vainly before the
Full Court to gain possession of the land clear of the said
tenancy rights. This is the case in reference to which
the Argus lately talked a half-column of bad law and
worse common sense, about the wrongs of the poor but
careless mortgagee under the provisions of the Torrens
Act.
* * * *
Wild-cat promoters have to study the fashions.
Just now copper is the favorite. Result : Hardly art
alleged assay in which copper doesn’t figure. Shows
hitherto quite guiltless of that metal have suddenly
developed it, and all late assays contain the line :
“Copper, a trace.”
* * * *
Girilambone Copper Co. managed to work off
£12,600 worth of 7 per cent, debentures to provide
machinery, and to open up the sulphide zone of the mine.
Why provision was not made for this expenditure in the
capital of the co. is hard to understand, unless it was that
the promoters did not like to depart from the common
way of Honing mines in N.S.W.
* * » •
Crookwell, N.S.W. : “ English capitalists are
prepared to buy up mines in Tuena districts if Govt, will
construct the Goulburn to Crookwell railway. Rich reefs'
of silver ore are known to exist at Mt. Costigan and Cor-
dillera, but the excessive carriage for coke, also for silver
‘ingots,’ prevents the mines paying.” “Also for silver
ingots” is indeed lovely. These mines went into liqui-
dation when silver was nearly double the present price,,
and all the railways in the world would not make up that
difference. Silver, and not a railway, is their chief want,,
and too well a number of Sydney people know it.
• * * *
At last a Bull co. has bought a mine at Wyalong:
(N.S.W.)—the Prince of Wales—sold to the United Ex-
ploration Co. for £4OOO.
* • • •
Wired from Orange (N.S.W.) to Sydney D.T..
that gold robberies are still going on at the Wentworth
mines, that the metal is sometimes concealed in holes-
bored in pick-handles, at others sent up with the mullock,
and taken away at night, and that the shafts are now
being fenced with barbed wire. Pleasant news for Lordi
Kilmorey.
• • • •
Mb. Hope (N.S.W.) copper-mines are still at
work, though a big part of the product is eaten up in
carriage to Cobar. Soine day the Cobar line will be
extended through to Broken Hill—it was built as the first
section : big smelting works will be established at Lith-
gow, and several copper, silver, and gold mines will be-
found.
• * * *
A Bulletin correspondent wants to make oufc
that Rocky Bridge (N.S.W.) opal-mine, now to l e ex-
ploited by an English syndicate, is an old affair, which
promised well in the seventies, and has been more or less
shepherded ever Binoe. He says it was found bv the
Peasley, or Beazley, girls, who were shepherding on Rocky
Bridge Creek. The Peasleys had a selection on the Aber-
crombie River, to which stream Rocky Bridge Creek is a
tributary. Sir Saul Samuel, or his agent, gave the girls
£5O to show the place where they found “ the pretty
stones’’—opals—they exhibited. For all these years,
continues the writer, the mine has been locked up. The
story doesn’t look very symmetrical—few mines known to
be good stay so long locked up.
* • « *
A good-looking story : —“Dear Bulletin, —The
Golden Dykes Junction G.M. Co. has given the public
what has never been done in any W.A. flotation before—
consistent crushings. The average has been over 2oz. ;
another 200 tons are going through, and the whole body of
ore in sight has the same consistent appearance. A shaft
has been sunk 180 ft., exposing a reef from sft. on the
surface to Oft. at the bottom, all of which looks like l£oz.
per ton, and there is enough water to keep 15 heads going.
No. 2 shaft is sunk in a kaolin formation to 90ft. The
crushings have been taken from three shafts. As an old
Victorian, 1 have given the public every possible help to
see for themselves that this flotation is not a ‘ cat,’ hut a
square investment. The gold won from the mill in these
crushings has been placed to credit of the co., less crush-
ing and working expenses, thus providing enough to erect
the mill without touching the £lO,OOO working capital.—
T.R.T.”
* * * *
The directors of the Railway Extended (W.A.)
gold-mine “congratulate the shareholders upon the
alterations in the labor conditions of the Westralian gold-
fields regulations, whereby it is now necessary to employ
only one man to every six acres, instead of, as formerly, one
man to every three acres.” This co., one of an extensive
type, has in hand £lll with which to keep one man to
every six acres working until “ the boom,” comes.
• * * *
Hit or Miss Co., Westralia, gone into liquida-
tion in London, the new co. to have the same share
capital paid up to 175., leaving a 3s. liability. The chair-
man : —“ When we review the past, we can but admit
that we have been very grievously disappointed by our
managing engineer. . . . All we require now is a
good supply of ore of a profitable grade.” (Laughter.)
Capt. Penberthy, the present boss:—“l never had so
much faith, in the Water Block as I have at the present
time. In sinking we have struck a formation assaying
from 17dwt. to 22dwt. per ton, and it is my honest and
candid opinion that we are on the eve of a splendid dis-
covery. I hope you will be successful in raising the
necessary funds to operate on and make a fresh start. I
feel confident the co. has a bright future before it, pro-
vided you raise the necessary funds.” A shareholder
modestly asked what had become of the 2000 tons at
grass in Dec., ’95, said to be worth Boz. to the ton. Col.
Burton Brown wanted to know —seeing that one very
serious mistake had been made as to the value of the ore
what guarantee was there against another, and if Mr.
Oxley would hand over sufficient money, out of that he
had received from the flotation, to thoroughly test the
property. Some £35,000 had been spent on the mine,
and they were now told that they were to commence
sinking. Mr. Oxley, in explanation : “In his opinion the
work was carried out by the late manager in a most irre-
gular and disorderly manner, and it was that individual
who was responsible for the expenditure of the bulk of
the co.’s capital.” The writer will be truly sorry for
Oxley if he ever meets the former 17st. manager. “ The
first returns from the battery were very encouraging and
showed a value of 3oz. to the ton, over 2oz. being re-
covered. After the first four or five crushings the yield
gradually fell away, but this was because a lot of stuff
was crushed which should never have been put through
the mill.” The present writer happens to know that on
correct tonnage the first crushing went a little over an
oz., the second, third and fourth only a few dwts. Why
has the battery remained idle since if there is any such
good stuff around? Mine no good, blame the manager, is
an old game. The battery and manager proved the lies
of the prospectus, and nobody can get away from it.
• * * *
Hannan’s Reward battery is almost completed,
and, if the writer is correctly informed, it will be just as
likely to knock the bottom out of the mine as to make
anyone’s pile.
* * • •
Pro. Krause’s report on the General Gordon
mine, Westralia, has been issued simultaneously in Cool-
gardie, Adelaide, and London :—“ In contact with the
felsite porphyry, occurs a band from 20 to 200 ft. wide of a
greenish rock containing, in a felsite base, mystals of
orthoclase and plagioclase, a variable amount of viosite,
mostly in hexagonal plates, some blebs of quartz, a little
horneblende, and an abundance of pyrite.” There is a lot
more of this sort of thing : “ I have had up to the present
neither the leisure nor facilities for making microscopic
analysis.” The Lord be praised! “The high charges
made for freight and material have added enormously to
the current expenses of the mine. For instance, freight,
£6 a ton from Kanowna, 12 miles of by no means rough
road ; iron plate, £3 to £5 per cwt.; hardwood timber, £2
17s. 6d. per 100 super, feet; spars 25ft. long and 6in. to
Sin. diameter, £3 to £4 10s. each. With bricks at £23 a
thousand, rubble stone had to be substituted. Drinking-
water, IT 10s. per 100 gals To estimate the
capabilities of this mining property, it is essential to ob-
tain positive information on three points. The first is
with respect to the value of the auriferous gossan, which
can be most speedily ascertained by an exhaustive series
of sampling and assays. This important duly I was par-
ticularly anxious to engage upon at the outset, but have
been prevented from undertaking owing to the want of
some of the most ordinary laboratory requirements, for
which I have made timely requisition. . . . With the in-
formation now available there is reason to look forward
with confidence to a successful development of this pro-
perty within a reasonable time.” To sum it all up, there
are some bags of high-grade ore left by the prospectors,
and there are 31,000 tons in sight, of the value of which
not the slightest idea is given. The battery is in the
wrong place, and it is proposed to shift it. There is very
little water, but hopes of getting plenty in the sweet by-
and-by. Mistakes are admitted all round, and the
development work has been practically left at a stand-
still. The only ray of hope is “ that the mine is permis-
sive of becoming self-supporting whenever the necessary
dead work shall have been completed.” Still on a long,
long string!
* * * *
From Peak Hill, Westralia, to The Bulletin :
“Be your par. about the Peak Hill mines, I can substan-
tiate the statement that it is the only place in W.A. that
has done without outside capital. From gold won the
prospectors have been enabled to erect a 10-head battery,
which has already treated a good many tons from different
claims. The average from the different mines varies
from loz.—this from a big reef called the Christmas Gift
—to 12oz. to the ton. No capital is required to develop
the mines, as all the owners are pretty well independent.
Hence for a co. it would be the most genuine field in
W.A. at the present time. The original prospectors of
the field are W. Wilson, a native of Shoalhaven (N.S.W.),
•and G. Woodhouse, of M.L., and nearly all who followed
have stuck to the field and have interests good enough to
keep them there."—G.W.H. Nevertheless, it seems that
the claim-owners have listened to the voice of the charmer,
G. Darlington Simpson, who has bonded all the mines for
“ considerably over ±lOO,OOO, and has left for London
taking over 2000 oz. of gold and some lovely specimens.”
He has, however, declared that he will not take a single
penny in promoters’ profits, with the object of having the
working capital as large as possible and the nominal
capital as small as possible. Then the chances are he will
have no Lords on his prospectus.
* * • •
Declared that the lode struck recently in the
Kalgurli South, at Hannan’s, is a new reef never opened
in any other mine, and has an important bearing to
another group of mines, and will further add to the rich-
ness of the field. Tiib Bulletin sincerely hopes so. Rich
as it is, Hannan’s can stand a lot more richness to bear up
against its own “ cats,” to say nothing of the virulence of
that pest in other parts of the country for which it has to
suffer.
• * * •
Astonishing how mushroom-like are the news-
paper idols of Westralia. Last year George Gray was the
mining monarch of that province. To-day he is never
mentioned, and if at all vain he must feel like a badly
beaten dung-hill rooster in heavy moult. G. W. Brook-
man is the mining king, while the telluride crown is worn
by Modest Maryanski. According to M.M., the causes of
the slump are—war clouds, the South African depression,
“ and last but not least, the rascally reports and misre-
presentations made by so-called mining experts, had well-
nigh ruined mining in W.A.” Well, who are they ? A
list of names would give a warning for the future ?
* * * *
Says a Kalgoorlie paper: “In the course o!
time investors will realise that, in their eagerness to
acquire mining properties here during the boom, they
have had foisted on to them many ‘wild cats.’ Un-
scrupulous men invariably take advantage of such oppor-
tunities, and purchasers must admit that, they themselves
have not been altogether blameless in not making fuller
inquiries as to the worth of what they were receiv-
ing in return for their money.” But not a word
about unscrupulous newspapers taking advantage
of their opportunity. Did that Kalgoorlie paper
ever isssue one note of warning ?—or did it bar-
rack for the boom ? The “ so-called experts ” were
bad enough, Heaven knows, but it was the lying done by
the united press of Australia—which was blind to the
most glaring of mining swindles—that did the most mis-
chief. To shriek for reformation after the robberies have
been committed is childish. If the
press desires further proof of its culpability let it reprint
5 per cent, of the “ news ” it published concerning the
great and enduring richness of Westralian mines, which,
it has since been proved, never had any gold in them, and
have been abandoned as worthless, after hundreds of
thousands were paid for them, and other hundreds of
thousands spent on them. Many of the worst of W.A.
“ cats ” were worked off on the English public without
reports from any experts, but by means of prospectuses
entirety made up of paragraphs from Australian news-
papers, and many a good yarn could be told of the
tricks played to secure the original publication of those
paragraphs.
* * * *
A Cairns (N.Q.) man who visited the Dead
Horse lead : “ Clermont has a nice, cool clin ate. Most of
the men there are as fat as whales.” By the yvay, he was
a “black-leg” who discovered the lead named. Where-
upon the “boys” christened his claim “ Soab Hill.’’
When the warden came to lay out the p.c., he objected
to that name. The “boys” compromised with “S'jrtejr
Hill,” and Blister Hill it remains.
* * * •
A Clermont (Q.) visitor’s private opinion;—
“The rush is overdone already, unless the Dead Horse
lead is traced further. The lead runs North and South,
and is known for a length of from three-quarters of tkipile
to one mile. I doubt if more than 60 claims aye
getting wash-dirt. There are a few' lucky ones, but yoju
could count them on your fingers. Three or four are
getting from lOoz. to 18oz. to the load. On the
ridges, the wash takes 30ft. or 40ft. of sinking; on the
flats, there is little or none. Perhaps rather more than a
dozen claims on Blister Hill are doing fairly well, but it is
very little good. Out of 1800 men on the rush, 1100 are
getting nothing. There are no wages to be earned, but
living is cheap : Flour, 50lb. bag, 9s. 6d. ; best beef, 2d,
per lb. ; English potatoes, 281 b., 2s. 6d. ; sugar, 61b., Is, ;
fresh butter, Is. per lb.”
• • • •
Towers’ crushings during week ended June 19
included Band of Hope, 692 tons for 1363t£0z. ; Victoria
and Queen, 360 tons for 6300 z. ; Brilliant and St. George,
852 tons for 1081 oz. ; Day Dream No. 5 West., 206 tons for
239t<jOZ. ; Brilliant Extended, 1150 tons for 7980 z.—a
marked improvement. Band of Hope declared a 6d. div,
as result of crushing ; that divided ±l5OO. Prospects of
mine were never better.
* * • *
Phcebe (Charters Towers), a Bull co’s mine, was
at latest looking well. Fortnightly haulage, about 70
tons of ore ; crushing of about 300 tons going through.
* * * *
Fifty skips is the reported fortnightly ore-haul-
age at Mills United. Alas, how the misrhty have fallen.
* • * *
No. 2 S.E. Day Dawn (Towers): Prospecting
shaft down over 1275 ft. Good stickers in this little
gamble—Pfeiffer and others ; halfpenny calls.
• • • *
Queen Central (Towers) shares hardened re-
cently owing to improvement in sink ; reef 2ft. thick and
well mineralised. A payable strike in this mine would
further enhance Queen line properties and boom things
generally.
• * • •
On 15th June Clark’s Worcester (Towers) had
nearly 300 tons of pay ore on top. Only 4in. of ore, how-
ever, in sink. Excepting No. 6 west level, which was in a
cross course, other faces looked promising.
Q. Govt, geologist Jack reports that certain
specimens from the Mambare river, New Guinea, “con-
tain gold, osmium, iridium, magnetic iron oxide, and
cinnabar,” and says that “ it would be hard to imagine a
more valuable association of minerals.”
* * * •
Victory (Towers) G.M. Co. has again entered
the div. list : declared 6d. div. on 18th Jun j , amounting
to ±5OOO, leaving ±3OOO to co.’s credit. The registered
office of the Victory is in Sydney, where the shares are
largely and well held. During the fortnight preceding
div., co. raised 100 tons from a rich strike in its No. 3
shaft, which gave soz. per ton. Contributing shares at
date of div. stood at 7s.


DURABILITY AND ECONOMY
The Celebrated Orient Clothing-
* Gives Universal Satisfaction, and is Unequalled for
FIT, STYLE and WEAR.
All Garments are Out from the Best Models, and the
MATERIALS thoroug-hlt shrultk.
The ORIENT CLOTHING is in all textures, suita le for
BUSINESS
OFFICE
PROMENADE
RIDING
BUSH
TRAVELLING
PICNICING
SPORT
and EVENING WEAR.
35/
40/-
LTALITY
SUITS
45/
SPECIAL
We pay carriage on all parcels of £2 and upwards
to any railway station or seaport in the Colony.
Furnishings excepted.
The MakJtnd Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being Made to Order.
VALUE UNRIVALLED. PATTERNS FREE BY POST. INSPECTION INVITED.
DA Yf D JONES and COM PA NY,
(OJ’I'OSITK G.P.0.)
GEORGE BARRACK STREETS, SYDNEY.
B. L. CORTO ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBVCCO-fid. Each.
lE3T*.. tiee the. name CORTO on.-.the bauds, and beware <>j imitations
SOCIETY
THE DROUGHT.—ON THE BARWON RIVER, N.S.W.
Pulling out and skinning bogged sheep.
The Sydney official “functions” in honor
of Victoria’s sixty-years incubation were fairly ac-
cording to precedent. All of them save one—to wit,
the official attendance in state of the Governor and
the Judges at St. Andrew’s Cathedral. That
“ function ’’was repugnant to thfe Constitution of
the province. There is no State Church in N.S.
Wales. Why, then, should the cathedral of one
of the sects have been deliberately selected as the
scene of a State ceremonial? In his private -capa-_
city a Judge or a Governor can attend what place
of worship it may please him to patronise. But
when it comes to bis betaking himself, inside his
State livery, to any particular cathedral, chapel,
or joss-house, lie is violating an essential principle
of the Constitution.
* * * *
“ Ain’t it sickenin’,” the newspaper gush
about Jubilee feeds to the old, the young, the
lame, and the blind ? Eeed the hungry by all
means, but why not spare us the greasy enthu-
siasm of the benevolent reporter and his blanky
good-natured condescension when he descends to
joyful details about the loyal avidity with which
the guests wolfed masses of juicy beef and great
hunks oi bread, and their devotion to the Throne
and Person over solid blocks of plum duff ? It all
reads painfully like a British description of the
Squire’s free feed to the rapacious Hodge. Has
it indeed come to this, that there are thousands of
Australians reduced to such straits that they re-
joice gluttonously over a gob of beef hacked from
a half-cremated ox, and mumble a rhapsodical
grace to Eat Man over a wedge of indigestible
dumpling ?
* * * *
Melb. Argus turned its boss liar on to the
Jubilee illuminations, and that functionary suc-
ceeded in discovering an entirely new order of
Australian fauna—the loyal larrikin. Describing
how one of “the talent” was about to stoush a
Chow, the Argus Ananias proceeds to show how—
His companions grasped him by the shoulders and held
him still. “ Knock off, Jack ; remember what the nig h*
is,” said one ; and as he spoke “ John ” approached fear-
lessly, and,-smiling widely, said, “You no ha’m me ; me
allee same Englisman. Gau savee Kawean.” When last
seen East and West had fraternised, and West was endea-
vouring to lead East into a convenient hostelry to drink
Her Majesty’s health once more.
“ Knock off, Jack, remember what the night is,”
is a truly pathetic touch. What a satire on the
humor of a people !
* * * *
The paltriest of all the Melb. illuminations
were those of that most enthu. .astic loyalist, Soft-
goods Sargood, who at Jubilee festivities and in
Parliament has always been ready with a fistful of
grease. With the exception of Sargood’s ware-
house, the whole of Flinders-street, Melb., was a
blaze of light, and in the middle, of it this one
huge block of buildings stuck up like a reproach.
* * * *
The German firms in Melb. were con-
spicuously absent from the general illuminations ;
in fact, with the churches, which had too keen an
appreciation of money matters, they were the only
people in the southern city who did not give way
to the prevalent grovel.
* * * *
There’s a pleasing variety of interpreta-
tions waiting around for Sydney Mayor Ives’s
discovery of a “gross insult” in the statement
that Sydney wasn’t exactly panting to have her
boss magistracy ornamented with a tin lordship.
Was Ives insulted as Ives, or as Mayor, or as
both ; or was he insulted in one capacity and
honoured in the other, and, if so, which in which?
Also, does Ives think his billet too gorgeous to be
susceptible of further glorification, or does his
democratic gorge rise at the notion of any glorifi-
cation? —or, does the shoe really pinch in the fact
that Ives hasn’t any use for a title he’d have to
THE “ RECORD
RAIN .”
This hideous alleged
joke is printed because
every idiot on the continent
has sent it along, and
because half the population
are looking out for it.
take off with his gown?—or “where does it hurt
him most, ” and how ?
* * * *
Some people are asking why the ancient
warriors amongst us Were left out in the cold at
the jubilee rejoicings. Absurd ! What business
has T. Atkins to go on contumaciously existing
after “ Queen and country ” have got all they
could out of him? “The broken tools that
tyrants cast away ! ”
* * * *
Melb. : “Of course there was bound to be
just one gleam of common sense in the illumina-
tions. An Elizabeth-street tradesman put up
“ Bless the Lord for the Rain.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Re
Melbourne’s emptiness.
Within a stone’s throw of
me here in Richmond are four
brick terraces, 5 rooms, rent
4s. 6d. They contain 20, 14,
21 and 6 houses —altogether
61. Out of that 3,1, 10 and
1 are let —46 of the lot empty
and going to ruin. Needless
to say, they are in the hands
of “ the bank.”
* * *
Love leads to strange
consequences. A Gore (M.L.)
young man lately arranged to
meet the Mary Jane of his
affections in the cemetery by
moonlight. He was there,
but, despite long waiting
among the damp grass and
the tombs, no Mary Jane
turned up. Then he gave
way to a burst of rage, and
broke a number of tomb-
stone ornaments, and severely
walloped the epitaphs with a
big stick, in consequence of
which he had to pay a fine and
heavy damages and costs.
“ Some descendants of
Wackford Squeefs must have
found their way to Maori-
land, judging by the experi-
ence of a friend of mine,”
writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent. “He got a billet as
assistant-master at a board-
ing-school on the East Coast,
and had not been there a
week when his chief informed
him that he objected to his
assistant eating bread, butter
and treacle. He might take
bread and butter or bread
and treacle ; to combine the
three was a wicked waste,
which would surely lead to a
woeful want. My friend left.”
* * *
A particularly sump-
tuous jubilidiot was the Lord
Mayor of London, one Phil-
lips, who, it is cabled, “ an-
swered the door ” at Temple Bar, gorgeously up-
holstered in purple, perched upon an unaccustomed
prad, and hanging"on to a “pear-lmounted ” sword.
* * * *
Cableskite about London record-illumina-
tions : “There was a feast of light for miles.” A
kind of light refection, as it were !
* * * *
Sundry Mayors of Australian cities and
townships were disappointed at not securing
titles. Hobart Mayor Davies is understood to be
particularly angry at being overlooked. In which
connection a Bulletin correspondent notes the
fact that at a Jubilee ball given by the Mayor no
preparations were made for the reception of Chief
Justice Dobson, the Tas. Lieut.-Governor, who
had to find his way into the hall unheralded and
unsung. . .
Some Queensland newspaper grovel :
The rain is coming this way from Sydney, and will
doubtless be here about Jubilee day. Let us hope it will
not oome, and that we may have “Queen’s weather.”
Just so. Let the lambs die and the crops wither,
but God grant that we may have dry weather to
stuff and guzzle in honor of Queen Victoria. The
crawling toadswallower who wrote —
Let wealth and commerce, laws and learning die,
But leave us still our old nobility—
left a lot of descendants, with less excuse for their
worminess than the elder blot on manhood.
At a Charters
Towers (N.Q.) Wesleyan
picnic, after kiss-in-the-
ring and all the other
moral chapel games had
been exhausted, theohoir-
boys and choir-girls
started dancing. Their
horrified Shepherd com-
manded them to desist,
but, Belial possessing
their limbs and con-
sciences, theyonly danced
the faster and the more
numerously. With a
your - sms - be - uj ion-your-
own-heads gesture, the
Shepherd decamped,
washing his hands of
the ungodljy business.
On the following Sunday,
not a choir-unit of the
young ’uns turned up to
open their throats. When
the Shepherd concernedly
made enquiries, he was
met with the Cousin-Jack
ultimatum : “No danc-
ing, no singing.” The
matter is under perturbed
consideration. It recalls
the old blackfellow’s de-
cision at an aboriginal
mission - station, when
the supply of Gospel-rum
was shut off at the fount
—“ No more plurry rum,
no more plurry hallelooyah I ”
* * . ♦ *
Sydney City Council, after all its Jubilee
grovel, has indeed been badly left, illoo for an
address, Town Hall brilliantly illuminated, the
new Markets and a city street royally branded--
but the Mayor is still plain Mr. Ives. Truly,
Jubilee “ honors ” are not easy.
The choosing of children from the Sydney
Public Schools to sing at the Jubilee E6te seems to
have been conducted, in many cases, with great
unfairness ; some of the best singers were passed
over and the well-dressed children of those who
can give them many pleasures were chosen. A
large number of the scholars in the public schools
have parents who could well afford to pay more
for their education, yet this class, it is complained,
is always favored when any festival comes round.
* * * *
The record illumination of a Sydney book-
store (Geo. Robertson and Co.) was the single,
sensible exception to the ruck of “V.R.’s” and
“Godsaves.” Round a set of purely Australian
emblems, designed by A, R. Pullin, ran the dis-
loyal legend :
Fame of families is all a cheat:
’Tis personal virtue makes us great.
And the composition included three caps of
liberty and not one head of Queen Victoria !
• * * •
The private illuminations at Brisbane (Q.)
were of the poorest and sickliest order. The
wealthy Q. Club broke its heart to the extent of
a “ V.R. ” gas-fixture, not made for the occasion.
A few hotels and shops sported various caricatures
of Her Gracious, that on the Courier buildings
being positively disloj T al in its hideousness. Ac-
cording to that work of art, Her Gracious has an
Oriental nose, fat and lumpy at the nostrils, a wo-
fully long and Milesian upper-lip, and a receding
chin, while the downward curves of her mouth ex-
hibit a temper almost amounting to ferocity. His
Ex., of course, had a grand illuminated arch fixed
up towards the main entrance to his blessed
worth of fireworks, but who is going to pay for
that has not transpired. Yet Brisbane was
rushed by bush-folk.
Queen Victoria declines
Jubilee presents, and may,
therefore, not accept Dibbs'
stick. In that case, Dibbs can
send it along as a Mt. Rennie
souvenir to Judge Windeyer.
11 wa s un -
doubtedlya happy
thought of con-
verted - democrat
Dibbs to send
Queen Victoria a
beautiful orutch-
stick turned from
his own lathe, for
sign and token
that his “loyalty”
still bloomed as
nobly as on that
memorable day
when the Prince c f
Wales, with a
single giant cigar,
drove Dibbs’s
seven red devils
of democracy
down a steep | dace
in]to midnight
Piccadilly. But
some evil-minded
person suggests
that a horrible
mistake may have
been made in
the premises.
Instead of the
wood from which
the stick was
made being part
of an ancient
pump found un-
der the Austra-
lian Club, there
is really no sub-
stantial proof
that it was
not portion of
an old gallows—
the first gallows
erected in New South Wales reposing in
desuetude upon that savoury site.
* * * *
Moore’s hanging-weight is given as exactly
list. Scaled on execution morning, pre-
sumably. Butcher’s meat!
Ex. Lainington’s fireworks in Brisbane
(Q.), on Record Insanity N.ght, were, all the press
gusli to the contrary notwithstanding, a melan-
choly failure. The “ set pieces ” were only a few
feet above the river’s-level, and four-fifths of the
massed thousands in the Govt. Domain could not
see them at all, while to those in the very front
the supposed inscriptions were illegible. Many of
the fireworks were damaged. Bombs went cronk ;
rockets declined duty ; catherine-wheels refused
to even light, much less revolve; a few really
SOBERED UP.
Beloved Queen
How drunk we’ve been
On loyalty and ’lumina-
tion !
We are so glad
That you have had
Your reisrning-record de-
monstration ;
For once again
Our sober brain <
Can comprehend the situa-
tion.
We sang a song
Qf Liviqg Long
A Life unruffled by the
baker,
Whilst grocers’ bills
And such-like ills
Sent weary millions to God’s-
acre ;
You deigned to live
That we might give
Loud praises to our mon-
arch’s Maker.
By statesmen, who
Have charge of you,
The Hempire’s interests are
tended;
Your formal “ Yea ”
From day' to day
Approves of what those
gentlemen did.
You merely smile
And reign the while
No wonder that your health
is splendid.
Could mortal ask
A softer task
Than queening over docile
nations ;
Ordained by fate
To sit in state,
August amongst one’s own
relations,
For sixty years,
Receiving cheers
And shirking social obliga-
tions ?
The Queen exists,
Therein consists
Our vain excuse for bogus
gladness;
By deed or word
You ne'er have stirred
Our public soul to joy or
sadness.
We starve or thrive,
You —stay alive,
And bless us for our grovel
madness.
Well, let it pass ;
We burnt our gas
And made some fleeting
moments fleeter;
We’ve winked our eyes
At ancient lies
Repeated by the Press re-
peater ;
We’ve spreed our spree,
And Jubilee
Is “ off” (thank Goodness !)
at the meter.


! J ARRIN GTO N it”' IT-
. ffHOTOOUTFITTERS
66 KING S? SYDNEY
S«Mu
i w
/ suy FjHOM^
Complete and Up-to-Date Stock of all Requisites.
EXPERT ASSISTANTS. PROMPT ATTENTION.
Use of Dark Rooms -FREE.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
TgOSE’S CELEBRATED
LOTION.
<1 n-ntent Discorrri/
of Moilrrn Time.*.
Kor Sand.' Uliy lit, Sore and Inflamed
Eyes, Billin' ss of Sight, Granu-
lations, &c. Kcnommended l»,v the -Trading Sydney
Oculists. It. \. ICO- IC, Chemist,. 53.1 Geome-street,
Sydney. By I’ost,, 3s. Hot . Ail Chemists & Storekeepers.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalass® and . other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
- Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q'land,
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free: or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENUR '
LA6ER : BEER.
Largely, Timitated, on Account of
Its Superb Qualities,
good rockets fizzed up—and between £4OO and
J 2500 worth of- grovel was over.
* * * •
Oxford-street, Sydney, was the most pathe-
tic-looking spot in the city on Jubilee night. It
had gone in almost exclusively for Chinese lan-
terns. By 7.30 the rain had extinguished nearly
all of them, and they hung like hundreds of
sodden dish-cloths from their respective lines..
The showers came down heavily. Trams both ways
were crowded to suffocation and refused to stop
lest any addition to the load should make the
bottom fall out. At every stopping-place about
70 people in sodden waterproofs were waiting for
any kind of vehicle to come and take them out of
this Jubilee, and when each tram labored past
they would rush out, and hang on, and-dropoff, and
say things beginning with “ blanky,” and then go
back to the pavement to wait events. There wasn’t
very much extra tram revenue collected; most of
the people rode free—after 10 o’clock, anyhow.
There would be about 24 people in each compart-
ment, and a line of them on the footboards, and
some unlawful marauders on the roof. The
conductor would put his head in with difficulty at
a compartment, and say “Fare, please.” Some-
times the 24 people panned out for 6d., or even
Bd. ; sometimes 3d. was handed out; occasionally
there was only an intimation that the conductor
had better mind his bloomin’ eye. The fares
which were handed along were mostly embezzled
in passing, and never got so far as the doorway.
The crowd on the roof as a rule flatly refused
to pass down anything, and the crowd on the
footboard looked so aggressive and so ready
to throw the conductor off on his head that
it was seldom asked to pay up. And in addition
to riding gratis the population emphatically de-
clined to get down and push when the tram stuck
on an incline, and often the vehicle would struggle
half-way up the hill by Victoria Barracks three or
four times, and roll back again among the hoorays
of its passengers, along with loud cries of “gimme
back me tuppence ! ”
* * * *
The Jubilee illumination at Melbourne’s
marbleous Commercial Bank was pathetic in its
simplicity. A crystal V.R. and crown of pre-
boomtime size, shining at long intervals across the
front of the building, and awakening reflections
on the gorgeous design that might have been there
if the event had happened eight years ago, when
banking was reckoned pre-eminent among the fine
arts, and Gyles Turner was boss of the Financial
Academy. The Australasia made a considerable
display, but, taking them altogether, the banks
seemed very conscious of their reduced circum-
stances. The E.S. and A. was content with a
small transparency, suitable to the church-like
appearance of the head-office. The E.S. and A.
is severely pious in its scheme of architecture,
which was designed to suggest that the Lord
loveth the cheerful depositor. On the trans-
parency aforesaid, Britannia figured as a sort of
divine female exhorting the public to lay up trea-
sures in a reconstructed Heaven and wait till the
olouds roll by.
The late E.M.G. EDDY, N.S.W. Railway
Commissioner.
Thb ]ubilee-celebra,tion organiser of a
country town near Dandenong (Vic.) advertised in
the local paper that “ the afternoon would be
devoted to sports, consisting of races for boys and
girls, skipping races for girls, high-jump for boys,
climbing greasy poles for legs of mutton, ” <Ssc. That
man will yet be a K.O.M.G.
,•• * *
Melb. ; u The pensioners, in red coats, in
an ignoble-looking, van, got more cheers than any-
thing over the Jubilee military procession. Poor
old fools ! What a consummate ass is the private
soldier. The glory.is all his, but the Upper Crust
pockets the dollars. Then it pats him on the
back—fine fellow ! grand old relic ! After he has
been starving about a generation, they stick him
in a go-cart, and exhibit him to a shouting popu-
lace, not one per cent, of whom would give him
threepence , for a bed. But, damme, he’s as
honest as the horse that goes, for the Melbourne
Cup, while statesmen are a crowd of villainous
pulling jockeys, trainers, and owners. Chuck
up your hat for Tommy !’
“Phonog ”
to The Bulle-
tin :
Re shorthand
writers and typ-
ists in Adelaide.
“Phono’s” re-
marks are some-
what mislead-
ing. lam a fair
operator, and
get £2 per week.
Applied for a bil-
let the other
day, asking 50s.
per week, which
another secured
at same screw.
Several of my
friends in the
same line are
getting from £2
to £3 per week ;
but I notice an
advt. this morn-
ing offering 30s.
per week for
similar work.
Adelaide, May
19, ’97.
* *
Sunday
menu ataCool-
gardie Jap re-
staurant :
Girolled stiak,
chapes, lomb
flry, steu stiak,
lourb-steu caw-
hel, roost bef,
mutun, mint
souce, ox heort,
boled potitos,
cabbagge, soule,
plum puddin’,
bread butter.
—Ex.
A N.S.W.
up - country
parson, with a “ derry ” on dancing, urges men
to go to balls stripped to the waist to shame
women out of their ball-style of dressing.
* * * *
The other day, a life-policyholder with an
Australian insurance co. lost a leg, and, though
she wasn’t insured against accident, she asked the
co. to do something for her ; whereupon the co.
bought her a <£2s cork-leg, which is described in
the press as “a generous gift.” Alas, if you
looked in the company’s books, you would, no
doubt, find that £25 charged to advertising
account. That company pasted its little poster
on poor Mrs. Brown’s cork-leg. Which is exactly
what the loyal public has been doing in the matter
of its Jubilee illuminations—-pasting proclamations
on Queen Victoria’s cork-leg, as it were, and
charging up same to reclame. For instance, how
diligently each Sydney bank went to work to find
out how much the other fellows meant to spend in
gas and flags, and how cruelly the big bank dished
all the others!
» * * *
Editor Bulletin, —.Re the proposedN S.W.
Consumptive Hospital, for which subscriptions
seem to be coming in very slowly : the Walker
Convalescent Hospital cost .£7o,ooo—to accommo-
date 70 patients ; the new Sydney Hospital cost
just ,£lOOO for each patient accommodated. —
Reader.
* * * *
Hobart Mercury, describing the W. J.
Clarke funeral: —
This terminated the service. In a moment the members
of the Rupertswood Battery had collected round the flag-
covered bier. Gradually the heavy coffin was lifted on to
their shoulders, and to the solemn strains of the “ Dead
March” in Saul, the. remains of the dead man passed from
the dimly-lighted chancel down the altar steps, through
the reverent congregation, and so, in measured steps, out
of the central door and towards the crowd without.
Thus does a corpse walk at its own funeral.
Which is quite up to S.M. Herald vice-regal
wedding description form.
* » * «
At least one Sydney undertaker mixed up
“ V.R.” and “ In Memoriam ” on Record Night,
and scattered fairy-lamps amongst the corpse-
cases, and got festive electric glitter on to the
coffin-plates and plaster-wreaths, and the planting-
procession-photographs in the window —and made
of himself a most loyal and hilarious and incon-
gruous ghoul generally.
• * * *
Melbourne people, admiring the beauteous
outline illumination of Government House, which
was effective for miles around, gave Gov. Brassey
credit for “shouting” the display. Brassey’s
loyal lavishness was a popular Jubilee delusion,
however. In the first instance, he had made a
show of intending to illuminate on his own
account, but his ideas were so str.ctly economica
that the Government stepped in and did the thing
handsomely. Brassey paid for some fireworks.
* C » *
At Cambridge, the Public Orator, in pre-
senting the Australian Premiers on the occasion
of their being given doetorships of law, “eulo-
gised each separately in a Latin address ’’ —which
was pure Greek to almost every man Jack of
them. Likely enough that the Orator, disgusted
with the proceedings, expressed his private
opinions of the Premiers in a language they
couldn’t understand —this to save trouble, especi-
ally with Digger Dick and the fiery Kingston.
Which recalls an incident in the life of Daniel
O’Connell, whom the British Govt, was, on one
occasion, specially anxious to catch napping in the
matter of sedition. Dan. had arranged one Sun-
day afternoon to address an open-air mass meet-
ing, and to this meeting Govt, sent three special
reporters. Daniel knew their mission perfectly
well,-and received them with great cordiality—saw
them made comfortable on the platform, and
would not begin till they assured him they were
quite ready. When they gave the word to start
he, with a bland smile, turned to the big crowd
and commenced his speech—in Irish ! Now, how
much better off were the Australian Premiers
than those English reporters?
THE SPREAD OF EDUCATION,
JOHNNY-COME-LATELY (watching the cow): “Say, deah hoy, what is that cow
licking? ”
OLD HAND : “Rock-salt, sir.”
JOHNNY-COME-LATELY : “ Weally! I often wondered how they made corned-beef !”
Drought item from Kaneira (Vic.) reported
in a Melbourne paper :
A farmer here, fearing to leave hisl seed wheat in his
shed, removed it into his house, which is a solid brick
structure. His hungry stock attacked his residence,
broke through two doors, and got at the wheat. When
this supply was exhausted the animals pursued their in-
vestigations further, and, getting access to a bedroom, ate
the straw mattress that was upon the bedstead.
* * * • -
Cooma (N.S.W.) is just now as proud as a
dog with two tails, the Judge lately on circuit
having remarked that Cooma had this time
excelled even itself in perjury.
* ♦ * *
A Western hostess, who means well but
doesn’t know, thus advertises in Dubbo Dis-
patch :
-jurRS. wishes to notify those desirous of ob-
-4’-- taining Board and Lodging that she has suitable
apartments for Single or Married Couples.
« * * *
The Argus did a rather scrubby thing
lately while reporting rather fully a sermon of
Baptist preacher Clifford. It gave his allusion to
Kant’s noble maxim that in all things we are to
act to every man as if he were an end in himself,
and not as a mere means to an end, but it care-
fully omitted the one stirring and effective pas-
sage in the lecture, the application of this maxim
to the conduct of the Argus’s especial clientele
towards their sweated clerks and seamstresses.
The Age, for a wonder, reported it fairly fully.
THE OLD AGE OF THE STAGE.
“Charley Bur ford."
The Brisbrane (Q.) W.C.T.U., as one man,
assaulted Tozer, the other day, in favor of repeal-
ing the C.D. Act. Some of the arguments were
criss-cross, as, for example : (a) The Act in France
has brought the population there to a standstill;
(6) The Act increases illegitimate births. The
place where the ladies landed Tozer one “on the
point,” as it were, was when they declared that
the C.D. Act “ interferes with the liberty of the
subject.” If you think all round this point you’ll
see a lot of conclusions attaching to it.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on Mb-
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, and in no case will MS. be
returned unless stamps (of any province) accompany.
O.P. : Queen Victoria stands 4ft. Bin Toil
L. (M.L.) : Without verifleatory clipping's, can’t publish
all sorts of potential criminal libels contained in narratives
of law-proceedings P.A. : You daren’t say of a lady
that “ her once piquante face is surrounded by what looks
like an inflated pink pneumatic tyre.” George L. (Cool.):
All right—send it along J.L.K. (M.L.) : Thanks
W.D. (M.) : Pained remonstrance received. Looked up
copy again, and find it quite worthless. “ What’s the
fault with it?” Author’s skull not big enough. “ Why
can’t you criticise ? ” Because there are 100 authors a
day in the same sad case Static: What scientists ?
where? Carswell: A shower-bath of pathos, pulled
with a string Waratah : Interesting puzzle; but you
didn’t send the key Medda : Sad little joke Isabel :
Received “Sat Out” will do ... F.F.B. : Send it to a
daily paper. But you talk considerable bosh. There
are scores of Yankee railroads with inferior passenger ae
commodation to those of N.S W. And you can’t expecw
N. Y. Central accommodation with Australian population ;
though it might be tried on an express or two
John R. : Too vague ; precise facts and dated observa-
tions wanted D.F. : You must re-cast your concep-
tions. There’s nothing in the mere practice of verse-
making that prevents a man from being a time-serving
adulator of conventional fetishes Snort : Whole lot of
interesting questions involved in the alleged, but
unproven, preponderance of female-births among
polygamists Ted (Red.) : Yes Elia: Matter hope-
lessly of the daily-newspaper sort Zingono :To hand.
Native : Heir story unprintable—and you havq
got the Judge Blake story upside - down
W.S.A. : It isn’t because Brunker is a cow-merchant that
The Bulletin jeers at him ; it is because he isn’t fitted to
be anything but a cow-merchant. Also, Brunker’s cow-
like habit of mind makes it impossible to forget his
occupation S.A. : Sorry can’t supply information.
Paper posted Outcast : Poem cast out J.B. : Yes
Jessie L.L. : You surely can never have read The Bulle-
tin once in all your life R.B.G. : Never vet knew a
man who wrote “ I send you an effusion ” to do anything
worth printing Clancy :It would be a fair thing, after
all, if newspapers never published the names of persons
accused of unproven charges—or, at any rate, entirely sup-
pressed the names of defendants in criminal cases until
after prima-facie cases had been made out in court A.
M‘Kelvey : It was a very pertinent question. Do the
clergymen who inveigh against a rational Sunday ever
show any consideration for the miserable newspaper man’s
day of rest ? Don’t they always work the editor to have
their absurd discourses reported on the Sabbath ?
V. : Roman Catholic prelates, we are told, are
paid by a levy on each parish C.S.B. : But, you
see, it appears to be the oustom in Victoria for
constables to wear their helmets in court Tom A
Hawk: Mostly unsuitable. F.W.G.T. : Thanks
A. 0.8. : We are told that squatter pigeons gobble up
ticks wholesale, and so does the common ibis Yarrum :
Bulletin printed substance of your cockatoo yarn about
12 years ago. Apart from that, it’s quite a veteran
Stephen O’H. : A lively experience, but it doesn’t make a
very good story N.A. ; Yes, the impartial Hebraics
furnish the most effusive Loyalists, and the most fervent
Anarchists Duo : (1) Hundreds of such “ strictly true”
yarns come to hand—all founded (when you sift them) on
naught but malicious cackle. (2) Story unavailable
F.K. (Q.) : Such vulgar distortions would only anger all
beholders F. : Her beloved Majesty visited her loyal
Irish subjects in their native country 44 years ago, and
would, no doubt, have often visited them since, but for
the death of her husband, and the great distance between
Windsor and Dublin A.L. : Alas! many a squatter
who would “sool” the dogs on to “ Scotty the Wrinkler,”
Henry Lawson, or any other of “Matilda’s” blokes,
advertised his name among the crowd of donors of 20,000
carcases of mutton and 500 head of cattle to provide food
for the starving poor of London Edie : Girly echo
merely English Nov. : Not bad ; not quite enough
strength or novelty Barellan : May do T.C. (Car.):
Most of it unreadable; rest undesirable J.M.H. : No
points now about Thunderbolt’s boy Nellie: Tenderly
mixed Nevill: O, refrain ! Recruit : Not up—and
put a little flesh on your skeletons W.H.P. : Too con-
ventional Steve : One perhaps Battie B. : Unsuit-
able A.H. : Not bad; not quite good enough Alice
M‘K. : Worthless D.H. : “ Jubilee” not up Arnold :
Sonnet stiff and unillumined W. Br. : Always the
makings of a decent thing, but never enough vitality and
interest H.A.C. : Both a little flat for B Kobar :
Perhaps B.E.L. : One scrap of waste-paper received.
Leather : Please call Operator : No, thanks
Janus : Your good - bad yarn reminds us of one of
Ingersoll’s—about a young man who uttered a forged
sdol. bill, and explained to his tribulating parent that
some days he thought it was good and some days he
thought it was bad, and, one day when he thought it was
good, he passed it. And, one minute when we thought
your composition was bad, we passed it R. A.M. (Castle-
maine) : “ Can a man save out of 30s. a week?” Yes, he
can save 15s. out of it, if he is some kind of a man. If he
is some kind of a hog, he can save 22s Neirbo : Large,
flat-footed perjury Messmate: Seems that you are a
devout atheist, and want us to damn Providence for you
The Admiral: Sorry the lady’s acting sent a chill
“ down the spine of your back.” That sort of thing leads
to rheumatism in the legs of your head B.R. (Marrick-
ville : Best verse of your Jubilee “ ode
In town there is great excitement and stir,
And people of every sort and vocation,
Have gathered together from everywhere
To be at the great Jubilee celebration.
R.E.P. : Worthless. F.R. (M.L.) : Good A.L.:
Both idea and sketch obviously not original Nimrod :
Thanks Constant Reader : You send a malicious-look-
ing story, and suppress your name. It’s a paltry story,
anyhow S.P.Y. : Fan-tan is understood to be a legal
game in Victoria S.P. (C.F.) : May use one L.H.B.
(C., M.L.): Do you guarantee its originality? Oro :
Rupert Clarke might have been opposed on his way to t he
Council; the British peer cannot be Wild West : No,
indeed it is not decent Horace T. (Sydney): Mam-
thanks, but must have it re-drawn A.A.G. (M.L.) : Ail
acceptable. Letter mailed. Snakejuice : Thanks.
R.M.H. : Thanks; interesting T. 0.1. : But is yours
the only tank in Australia? .... Bob the Swaginan : You
can’t apply dry-land rules to a criminal aboard ship ;
and, anyway, Butler wasn’t definitely classed as a
criminal when he got his whisky .... P. A'bbott : Well,
suppose you start the “kickers’column.”...M.L. : Names?
date? evidence? re alleged £5OOO Australian robbers let-
off because Crown Prosecutor came late to court
Patra : “ Fifth ” wants climax and other things Veldt:
Won’t bear reprint unless apropos J. : One lovely.
lonely star declined Crartep : “Laura” mercifully
suppressed F. J.R. : Several dull remarks about love to
hand.


A
Lady
Said
Callaghan Boots and Shoes are splendid, but I
can t afford them j they are tod high-priced.”
Excuse us, Madam ; you can’t afford the other
kind.
One pair of Callaghan Boots at 15/6 outlasts
two pairs of the others at 10/6. Which is cheaper ?
Beside, we have a good Glace Button or Lace
Boot at 14/6, and a nice Calf Lace Boot at 13/6.
Cau-aghan a Son,
395 George-street, Sydney.
<sota Sor* Tfjroat!
Well, the next thing for you
to get is a Large Silk Muffler;
it will cost you only 2/11. It is
the best value ever offered.
W. T. WATERS A) CO.,
Ladies’ Outfitters, Costumiers and Milliners,
George and King Streets, Sydney.
WANOO!
Dispels the Miseries of Indigestion.
„ Blacktown, 27th May, 1897.
The Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—For fifteen years I endured the miseries
of Indigestion and Liver Complaint. I suffered con-
stantly from sick headache, and always felt tired out
and unfit for work. I tried numerous remedies, but
could get no relief. The wonderful cures claimed for
LOASBY’S “ WAHOO” induced me to give it a trial
with the result that lam completely cured. Many of
my friends are now taking “ WAHOO,” and sneak as
highly of it as I do.—Yours truly,
CHARLES HONES.
WAHOO!
Price 2/6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasby’s " Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ „ _ Sydney, June 29, 1897.
Mr Dear Mtee—
It was a wet and weepful jubilee, after all. The
rain filled the colored cups of the Hyde Park fairy-
lights to overflowing, pulped the Oxford-street
paper-lanterns, and utterly drowned the Conti-
nental. The average jubilator who beheld the
Continental on Monday, 21st, was loud in its
praises, and if asked to describe it, began: “ Well,
there was a long pole in the middle,” &c. I my-
self heard 15 descriptions, and they all had that
long pole in them and nothing else. The “ fiery
dragon,” which was to shoot flames and smoke all
around the harbor, was a hollow fraud of disap-
pointingly early habits, for it retired to its long
rest at Cockatoo Island ere half the saturated
multitudes had done feasting their eyes on the
other glories.
Govt. House verandah, on Jubilee night, was
thronged by* a crowd of macintoshed sightseers.
With the object of seeing the abbreviated firework
display they remained outside until the last
search-light was thrown around, and then drifted
under shelter, dropped rain into the light refresh-
ments, and saturated the cakes. At the clubs,
which were thrown open to ladies, there were also
rations served to all, and little china souvenirs
presented to guests. Outside the Herald office a
crowd, collected to read two notices, posted up as
one without a break : “ G. H. Reid has been made
a Privy Councillor. In case of accidents ring up
2030 and the ambulance will attend without
charge.” The electric lights were ahead of gas as
an illuminator, and one of the most brilliantly-lit
warehouses was illuminated by a row of candles in
every window. By eleven o'clock the gas was
turned out everywhere, the Star whirligigs ceased
to revolve, on the P.O. tower the jewelled crown
began to play “ peep bo ” with the crowd waiting
for the message which never came, and the show
was practically over.
The Town Hall illuminations were encored on
Friday night, when the Mayor and Mayoress
were “ at-home.” The red, white and blue incan-
descent lamps shone on a large number of callers
considering the weather. A civic group strolled
about and rattled tea and coffee-cups agitatedly
while singing was going on. The guests on arriv-
ing shook hands with Mayor Ives and family, and
chatted about the illuminations and the rain, but
there were large, silent blanks in the conversation
where congratulations should have come in. It
was an all-comers’ event, and the dressing was ac-
cordingly mixed. Mrs. Ives looked well in black ;
her daughter’s gown was rose-bud besprinkled. A
rose-pink gown attracted notice, also a trailing
brocade with lace and jewel puffery. It was a
night-out for black frocks and second-best evening
cloaks —a “ second-best ” evening cloak is invari-
ably of nun’s-veiling and swansdown As a wind-
up, the organist thundered forth two introductory
chords which brought all the company to their
feet imagining God-save had begun, but at the
third note they all flopped again, discovering that
they were listening to the beginning of Luther’s
hymn.
The monotony of “ God-save ” had to be varied
somehow last week. To make a change, it was
sprung on the audience at the Amateurs’ Orchestral
concert, in the “Jubilee” overture, into which
the composer Weber incorporated it. Introduced
in the middle of the programme, it made the un-
musical prick up their ears and fancy they had
heard that tune somewhere before Signor Hazon
conducted, to great applause, a brilliant “little
thing of bis own ” —a Jubilee piece, which repro-
duced faithfully all the impressions of a National
Lighting-up, even to the falling of the ’bus-horses
on the wet blocks, and the cursing of 'the Potts
Pointman when the rocket-stick wrecked his roof.
A crowd gathered on Mrs. Macquarie’s chair to
see the fireworks which, for some of the jubila-
tors in the background, were blotted out by um-
brellas. When asked to shut them up, the owners
of the gamps furled—unanimously except one
fashionably-garbed woman, who continued to
shelter her frills undisturbed by protests, and
turned a deaf ear to personal remarks. “She
carn’t shut it, the man wot mends the gamp
hasn’t been round this week.” “That ain’t it, it’s
one of them shilling gamps that won’t shut.”
“ Say, mum, kindly turn yer umbreller round so’s
us can see the fiery dragon thro’ the ’ole in the
other side. ” Which last fling brought down the
brolly.
This is how one Sydney genius jubilated on his
illuminated shop sign :
God Save the
37 + Q uee n+97.
The march of troops through the city on Jubilee
day was the only excitement of the afternoon, ex-
cept the function in the Palace Gardens where a
mildly-interested throng watched H.E., sur-
rounded by magnates on a purple-draped platform,
twitch the bunting off Gov. Phillip. By the time
they reached the city the soldiers seemed tired,
but pulled themselves together to get a cheer
which happened when the pipers came along. Of
all the garbing the unpretending khakee won most
applause. One of the most imposing sights in the
procession was Colonel Neild, as he sat with in-
flated chest on his fiery charger. The populace
seem somehow to regard the gallant Colonel as a
military joke ; but the fact of the Colonel’s magni-
ficence remains—so far as appearances go he might
be a Marshal of the Second Empire. An old lady
in black marched alongside her son, or some other
fire-eating relative, and was part of the show for
onlookers.
Jubilee oratory would lead one to suppose that
V.R. is a benevolent despot who has, for the past
00 years, been running the Hempire on a system
of her own. The discovery that she lacks even
the royal power to accept a purse of sovereigns or
a new pony-cart from any unknown admirer comes
upon ns with a shock of disillusionment. Last week
the Colonial Secretary cabled from London : “In
view of the large number of Jubilee offerings to
the Queen, I have to give notice that the Queen
regrets that the rule respecting offerings from
private individuals, with whom she is personally
unacquainted, prevents her receiving such pre-
sents in commemoration of her 60 years’ reign. ”
And the newspapers publish this sad news under
the heading, “Refusal of Personal Gifts by Her
Majesty ” ! The venerable lady is simply pro-
hibited from grabbing at them.
While the preparations for the Jubilee were
being made in Perth, Messrs. Vickery and Co.
wired to the Mayors of Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie
“ 10,000 yards black muslin suitable decorations.”
An hour afterwards came the reply, “Say who is
dead.”
“ People can talk as they like about the talent
and capacity of Australian politicians who have
gone to England,” said a man to me, the other
day, “but how many of those politicians were
clever enough to leave their wives behind them?
If you want a standard of diplomatic ability, there
you are ! ”
Elsie Adair, the new vaudeville dancer at the
Cri., possesses the secret, known only to women
of the Yewnited States, of parting her front hair
without adding ten years to her appearance. For
a girl of any other nation who is on the wrong side
of five-and-twenty it is fatal to have the hair
neatly brushed away each side of the centre part-
ing and bunched over the ears with sparkling
combs. Ladies from the U.S.A. can alone manage
it successfully. Contemplating Elsie, the printed
rapture on the programme seems a large order, for
though she is smart and graceful, she isn’t strik-
ingly original. A night or two after her opening
she made melodious love in her encore song to an
elderly, white-haired potentate in a front stall,
which made the audience laugh while the victim
wriggled.
The shiny, plastered style of hair-dressing which
up-to-date Man now considers the correct notion
is catching on in Sydney. A fashionable person
at the Record Orchestral Concert, on Thursday
night, had his hair as glossy as his Sunday hat.
The new mode is not to be attained without
prayer and fasting. Some ’Murkan johnnies
(whence the fashion originates) tightly bandage
the scalp at night to make the thatch lie flat and
smooth all day. The hair must be allowed some
length—a bristling summer crop wouldn’t lend
itself to grooming.
The first night of “ Romeo and Juliet ” was wit-
nessed by a full and fairly enthusiastic house.
The curtain was raised many times, but there were
few flowers —I only saw a lonesome little bunch of
roses which whizzed from the stalls. The “ Sign of
the Cross ” co. was dotted about the d.c. in the
same grouping this co. always affects. The groups
are so invariably the same that it would cause a
small sensation were the members to play “ family
coach ” and change places with each other. A
beauty actress, backed up as always by aristocratic-
looking “Momma,” decorated the centre box.
On the stage, Mrs. B. P’s recent recruit, Miss
Muret, showed a disposition to follow Cora’s lead
in the matter of clinging attitudes and graceful
drapery.
At a Sydney Anglican church, the other day,
a special meeting of parishioners was called to see
what could be done towards paying the arrears of
the poor parson’s salary—some <£9s. A fashion-
able youth suggested that half-a-dozen young
ladies should be appointed to take the places of
the apathetic males who now show people to their
seats and take round the plate. Whereupon the
old gentlemen present put their glasses on and
stared savagely at the business-like young man.
Nothing came of the meeting, so the poor parson
may have to strike.
It is the prevalent craze of the moment to buy
the new N.S.W. postage-stamps. Philatelists—
awkward word—are gloating over the new blot-
ting-paper-tint penny stamps, but the special
favorite with everybody seems to be the Jubilee
2|d., which peoplesayis veryartistic. The large,ob-
long adhesive plaster which is issued at a penny and
sold for a shilling, for the Consumptive Hospital,
is having a boom of its own. It recalls the enor-
mous stamp issued for the American Centenary.
Of two sets of these stamps, one showed the
landing of Columbus with a clean-shaven face,
the other Col. parleying with the natives. In the
short interim he had grown a healthy beard.
A new grievance against cabmen, arrived at
last meeting of the Sydney Transit Commis-
sioners, is that cabby is cruel enough to leave his
horse slumbering in the shafts all night while the
driver slumbers in his cab, wrapped up in bags
and rugs. Most Sydney cabs look it. Now one
understands the weary up-all-night aspect of
many of those vehicles. At present Sydney cabs
are a misfit, too large for one and much too small
for two; the roof in the old-fashioned sort of cab
is too low for soaring flower-sprays and billowy
plumes on hats, and there isn’t room for two pairs
of exaggerated sleeves.
Jubilee music is simply pouring in. De Beau-
puis’ “ Queen’s Reign March,” arranged for piano,
makes a satisfactory noise, but some of the
passages don’t seem to give enough elbow-room to
the performer’s fingers. E. Balharry writes a
waltz (Allen and Co., Melb.), of the twinkling-
fairy-footsteps kind, and calls it “ Her Majesty,”
which is ironical. There isn’t a fairy-footfall in
the whole Guelph clan. “ Reve d’amour,” by
Lardelli, in many settings, is a pretty concert
piece. “Swanland,” a patriotic song, by J.
Summers, represents Perth s shout in
Hallelujah.
The worth of Melba as a valuable advt. for
Australia is only beginning to dawn on her com-
patriots ; she may always be relied on to keep her
native country in the public eye more attractively
than cargoes of frozen-mutton or royal-crested
carriage loads of Premiers. Melba is the best
Australian production up to date, and the only
Australian person who has got into the world’s
very front rank. As such, she is a sound asset,
and one which cost this country nothing. The
choice of the Victorian nightingale to sing at the
Jubilee Command night makes the fact of the
kawlinies being able to do one thing better than
any other country sink deep into the British
public’s soul. Nobody living can sing “ Lucia ”
like Melba, and to sing in Covent Garden on a
special night is about as great a triumph as a
woman can have in this world. It is a much
greater feat than making a record in reigning,
because the prima-donna whose voice soars through
the enormous building at about <£2oo per soar,
scores entirely on her own.
Since Florence Schmidt’s sudden leap into
notice, every girl with a voice is ambitious of
rivalling her, and diligently practises trills, runs
and shakes to the strengthening of her vocal
chords and the despair of her neighbors. All
sorts of recipes are dug up—such as sleeping with
a silk handkerchief around the throat a la Patti,
and a morning gargle of cold saltwater, guaran-
teed to clarify the voice and make it crystal-pure.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
, -A- weird, peculiar story is going round to
the effect that one of the daughters of a Melb.
dancing-academy has promised her hand in mar-
riage to a Great Unknown of noble Hinglish birth
and vast family possessions. Whether the allega-
tion came, in the first instance, from the lady
herself, or simply grew from a grain of gossip-
seed, is a mystery as dark as the identity of the
bridegroom-elect. Also there is no discoverable
suggestion of a reason why the matter should have
any mystery about it, considering that the heroine
talks of making her invisible Boy happv before
the end of the year, and must, consequently, be
up to her eyes in trousseau schemes. This is really
a phenomenal case of female secretiveness—to have
a brilliant marriage looming in the near future,
and yet to keep the name of the ardent lover a
secret, as though he were a sealed tender !
The Rechabi tes and sich should certainly
recognise Gov. Brassey’s services to the Cause.
It is true that when cyclist Carpenter brought a
despatch from Govt. House, Sydney, to Govt.
House, Melbourne, he was thoughtlessly provided
with a glass of beer, colonial beer; but when 300
jubilee firemen arrived at Brassey’s domicile in
torchlight procession, the other Monday night,
they were gratified to find that H.E. refrained
from offering them accursed drink of any sort
whatever. Had he tempted those 300 firemen,
many of them might have fallen. As it was, they
went back to duty strengthened by a practical
lesson in total abstinence, and feeling truly thank-
ful that they were travelling with a full band. At
such moments there is much consolation in a full
band.
“In the present scarcity of marrying Melb.
men it is painful to hear that Mr. L. A. Chaffey
(son of John R.) will presently meet his doom in
Maoriland. He has fallen captive to pretty Miss
Maud Butterworth, of Dunedin, and intends to
settle down at W ellington.
“An unfortunate little accident happened to
Lady Holled Smith on the occasion of the open-
ing of Vic. Parliament. The massive, golden-
haired lady left her bemedalled and plume-hatted
warrior on the steps to wait for Gov. Brassey,
while she went up towards the Council Chamber.’
But at the top of the steps she tripped over the
door-mat, and measured her full length upon it,
amidst the abominably rude laughter of a crowd of
smartly-dressed women near the door. She strode
off to the gilded Chamber looking very red and
angry. None of the men standing around were so
boorish as to laugh ; only the women. It takes a
woman—especially a well-dressed one—to malici-
ously rejoice at an undignified mishap to a better-
dressed woman.
“One of the weirdest of Melb. Jubilee decora-
tions was a transparency outside a leading
drapery. It professed to represent Britannia and
Victoria shaking hands; but the Victoria was ‘ a
caution.’ She was a young lady in short frocks,
with a chestnut-colored face; orange hair done up
behind ; and abnormal frontal development. She
had beside her a howling monstrosity for a kan-
garoo, with a scarlet back and a white paunch.
Britannia looked rather scared about the shaking
hands, and no wonder. But Art takes a back
seat when Loyalty appears.
“ A beautiful illustration of shopkeeping
loyalty off its guard was visible in a main Mel-
bourne street during the illuminations. The bold
trader’s legend was:
CAFE.
PRIVATE ROOMS.
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN 1
“ At the vice-regal reception on Jubilee day,- five
thousand persons—most of them heavily dressed
and befurred—struggled in through a narrow win-
dow, and every now and then were checked in
their furious endeavor by a functionary who barred
the way with a short cane. Why the Governor,
considering all the fine entrances which the V.R.
abode possesses, should have gone to the trouble
of haying a window removed from its frame and
insisting on his guests entering that way, very
much in the style of sheep in the drafting-yard, is
still a mystery. When entrance to the drawing-
room was at last gained by force, the V.R. party
was ‘discovered’ hoisted on a raised platform
and surrounded by all the official and ecclesiastical
dignitaries and their wives. Lady B. and Mrs.
Freeman Thomas departed from the custom firmly
held by the two previous V.R. ladies, and appeared
bare-headed with elaborately-barbered coiffures.
Lady B. was smartly dressed in her favorite’ black
moire antique with some rare lace forming a full
vest. Mrs. Freeman Thomas, who shook ex-
tended hands in a perfunctory way without
glancing at their owners, was attired in a gown of
black brocade which would have looked elderly on
her grandmother but for a smart little corselet of
pink satin covered with jewelled lace.
“ A band stationed aloft in the ballroom served
out all the entertainment offered to the guests that
afternoon. The women with hardly an exception
were well and fashionably dressed, but their hus-
bands and brothers stuck to the blue serge and
pot-hat they were used to ; not more than 50 in
de rigueur frock coats and silk hats to be
counted amongst the crowd. Magnates from the
backblocks on their first visit to Government
House were to be distinguished by the crochet
cravats wandering up the back of their collars,
the heavy, shapeless boots which resounded on
the polished floors, and the wildly bewildered gaze
they threw on the surroundings. Beauties were
rather abundant—“all women look well in furs ”
—but a young matron, in deep blue silk with an
antique beaten-silver belt and several other Pot-
teresque fixings, made a decided bid for her former
position of belle of smart gatherings.
“On Tuesday refreshments were plentiful and
decidedly more substantial than usual. The sand-
wiches and cakes were of the sort that are served
round in paper-bags at a Sunday-school picnic,
and the tea and coffee served in cups of an “un-
genteel ” vastness, but as many Melb. folk seem to
wish to make a meal at all official entertainments,
these facts were counted unto the Brasseys as
righteousness.
“A popular way of ‘doing’ the illuminations
was to make up a party and hire a furniture-van,
fitted up with forms in the manner sacred to
Sunday-school treats. Every available van was
pressed into the service, the vanmen asking and
getting readily a couple of pounds per evening: for
the vehicle. One lady in a fashionable suburb
was arranging for the hire of a van, and she asked
the owner how many it would seat. ‘ Well, mum,’
he replied, ‘it depends upon the company. If
they sits adjacent, the van will hold 20, but if
they sits familiar, it will hold 26.’
“Margined by empty chairs and with yards of
floor-space to spare, the official commemoration-
ball at the Town Hall was indeed a frost. His
Ex., as usual, put in a disconsolate and tardy ap-
pearance, after which things livened up a trifle
until the last trams left, and then ensued the ab-
surd spectacle of two sets trying to spread them-
selves over a desert of dancing area. The hop
fully deserved its pretentious title, for none but
officials were present, and city fathers, in knee-
breeches and point lace, were plentiful. Their
solemn splendor seemed to intensify the prevail-
ing depression. Many swell new frocks were
wasted on this wretched function, although the
viee-regals had evidently come prepared for the
worst. Lady Brassey, in a dowdy black garb,
sported a cream larnb’s-wool affair round her neck
all the evening, and waved an ugly green fan.
Mrs. Freeman-Thomas was in ditto-ditto, bright-
ened just a little in gold, and the Mayoress jubi-
lated in pale green and touches of red velvet.
“Suburban housekeepers look with suspicion
these days on any insinuating damsel, with her
hands full of tickets, whom they find on the front
doormat, for such a visitor almost invariably
makes an eloquent appeal for coin in the cause <if
charity. Yet there are humorous exceptions to
the rule. One seaside resident tells ruefully that
in answer to the unexpected query from one fair
stranger as to how many children she had between
the, ages of 5 and 16, she briefly replied : ‘ None at
all, ’ preparatory to closing the door with a bang.
Then when the questioner proceeded to say ‘ The
Council is giving a free entertainment to all the
children in this suburb, and I am just goinground
leaving the tickets,’ the mother of nine could only
smile vaguely and wring her hands behind her
back. For the past week she has lived in daily
dread that her defrauded olive branches will find
her out, and publish their grievance to the
neighbors.
“ Sympathetic journalists (of the sex that
smokes a pipe) are waxing eloquent over the
recent father-to-child cruelty cases reported in
Melb. and Sydney. An Akgus writer suggests
that the inhuman fathers be handed over to a jury
of. women for justice. As if honors were not
fairly even between the sexes in this matter.
What about that Irish vixen who tied her little
girl by the hands to a pig in the family wardrobe,
and left her there till she died from the mingled
effects of utter darkness and dread of being
nibbled by the gintleman that pays the rint !
And that Australian heroine we read of lately
who disciplined her darling offspring bv frizzling
sections of its flesh with a red-hot poker. In
these cases it seems highly advisable that the lady
torturers should get their deserts, or as much
desert as the law permits, from a jury of decent
average papas.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Every hanging Judge has his ghost.
Launceston, probably the best electrically-
lit town in this hemisphere, made a magnificent
Record Reign illumination. Electricity is cheaper
than gas, and loyalty is very largely a question of
cost. Even in Tasmanian towns the advertisers
made the grandest display.
Some of the Sydney banks were lavish of
Y.R. in their Jubilee illuminations. Very Recon-
structed ? A very effective design for certain of
them would have been :
Established, 18—.
Reconstructed, 1893.
Re-reconstructed, 1897.
V.R.
That Dublin shindy was nothing more,
after all, than a Record-Reign celebration, trish-
fashion, wrong-side-up ; and Patrick—having re-
joiced exceedingly with a thick stick, and con-
siderably bashed head, and £5 or three months—
rests satisfied with having demonstrated that, at
all events, the “60 years' progress” has made no
difference in him.
N.S.W. Govt, has bought a statue of
Parkes from a gent in “rejooced circumstances.”
Name ? also, price ? The pedestal—it is to be ex-
posed to public horror, in the Centennial Park •
why not in the Zoo. ?—costs solus. “As the
price asked for the statue was low, the Premier,
Mr. G. H. Reid, obtained reports in regard to the
artistic value of the statue. From these reports it
appeared that though as a work of art it was not
perhaps first-class, still it was a good representa-
tion of Henry Parkes and suitable for erection
in the Centennial Park. It was, therefore,
purchased.” What a grim—and appropriate-
revenge on poor Parkes, the silly old dreamer,
who was always dabbling in, and paying huge
sums of Treasury money for, all sorts of artistic
nightmares !


Commerce depends on two governing fac-
tors : the sale of commodities, and the receipt of
the cash (or other commodities) which they repre-
sent. In times of depression like the present, both
processes are difficult of accomplishment—espe-
cially the latter ! But merchants who can sell
their goods need not be apprehensive of getting
paid for them if they will hand their accounts to
the Victorian Debt - Collecting Agency (Holds-
worth & Co.), 101 Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
BAKER & ROUSE, Limited.
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak , £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera , £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £Jf. Is.
Gaxalogubs Free.
importers or photographic material.
875 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
• • _
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE,
W BALCH'N, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
The new J übilee Plunger—Barney Barnato.
The Earl of Yarmouth has departed rather
Unexpectedly for England.
Queen Victoria has been the Protestant
Virgin Mary of 1 Jubileedom.
“ M‘Kell, sir, M‘Kell ! ” —said the Cobar
gold-warden to an individual who had addressed
Sim as “Mr. MfEll.”
Does King David, of the Age, in refusing
a knighthood, wish it to be believed that he did
not want to be Offered the title ?
“To him who hath.” The conferment of
LL.D. -ships on all the Australian Premiers is a
mere case of degreesing the fat pigs.
Dust and ashes ! Little S.A. Chief Jus-
tice Way, after a lifetime of grovel, got his P. 0.-
ship. And now P.C.-ships are three-a-penny.
Rupert Clarke will step into his father’s
shoes at the Colonial Bank, as well as at the Vic.
Legislative Council. Australia’s only hereditary
ruler.
In harness ! Last words of N.S.W. Rail-
way-Commissioner Eddy: “Get the staff—it’s
time to be away! ” And then—the last train
started !
“The Queen’s sight is unfortunately
weakening, and giving rise to anxiety.”—Cable.
Evidently H.M. has made an attempt to wade
through those illuminated addresses.
“Philosopher” Smith, Mt. Bischoff dis-
coverer, died last week at Launceston, Tas. He
was nearly 70, and for the last few years drew a
£2OO pension from Tas. Government.
Mr. B. C. Rodd, now of Five Dock, near
Sydney, was one of over 50 solicitors on the
Sydney roll 60 years ago. Now, he is near 90
years of age, and is the only survivor.
A coincidence. At the argument before
N.S.W. Full Court of the points reserved on be-
half of Butler, his counsel quoted, in support of
his argument, a case of Reg. v. Butler.
Hanged in Victoria, years ago, for mate
muraer (13 victims) —Burns. Ditto for ditto, the
other day, at Dubbo—Moore. About to be do.
for do. in Sydney—Butler. Burns, Moore, and
Butler ! Scottish, Irish and English literature—
“ Tam O’Shanter,” “Lalla Rookh,” and “ Hudi-
bras. ”
The most inveterate practi-
cal joker in Vic. Assembly is
Alfred Deakin, among the tri-
umphs of whose life is reckoned
his elaborate hoaxing of J. L.
Dow, of Melb. Age. When Dow
and Deakin landed in ’Frisco,
about eight years ago, the fact was
chronicled in the ’Murkan dailies,
with the result that a constant
stream of peroxided damsels called
to interview the Australian poli-
ticians. One portly dame, handing
in a card bearing the name “ Mrs.
Muriel Donley,” unfolded to Dow
a scheme by which she intended
exporting Yankee girls to Austra-
lia, trusting in the novelty of na-
tionality for a special attraction.
The man of potatoes seriously in-
formed Mrs. Donley that the Vic.
Govt, would probably grant her a
bonus as the pioneer of a new in-
dustry, and there the incident
ended. But the wily Deakin,
who had been taking in the whole
thing with a twinkling eye, se-
cured the pasteboard for future
use, and three years later, when
both were sitting once more in
Vic. Parliament, a messenger en-
tered and gravely handed the
card to Dow. For a moment the
politician regarded it with a
puzzled air ; then light broke
upon him and he cleared out per
back door in the middle of an
important division. Every other
night for a fortnight, one of the
officials would tiptoe up to Dow
and tell him that a stout lady was
waiting to see him on urgent busi-
ness, and the member would melt
silently away with the utmost re.
gularity. At last, during an
afternoon sitting, came a telephone
message, ostensibly from David
Syme, stating that a lady from
■abroad had called at the Age office
to see Mr. Dow, and that, not
succeeding, she had installed her-
self in the proprietor’s private
office, absolutely refusing to leave
until her much-desired interview
eventuated. “Pray return at once,” concluded the
message, “and release me from this embarrassing
poseetion. ’’ With a cold perspiration on his brow,
t>ow took first tram to the Age office, and tremb-
lintrlv made his way to the sanctum of King
Dawvid. “Ah doan’t know what yeer talking
aboot Mr. Dow,” blandly remarked that deity ;
* ’ a ’
it seems as if somebody had been hoaxing you.
O’Grady l-Riiey !-Dooley !-were three
the'jubdee
procession. Justice to the ould dart, at last !
Dean Cowper, of bydney, will be 87 years
oid to-day (July 3). He is a native of Sydney and
has been more than sixty years a priest, while it is
81 years since he was promoted to his present
o gUg
mi ‘ n „r_;_ a a
The Governorship and Acting-Governor-
Bhip of N.S. Wales have been filled 32
times, sometimes more t an once (as by Alfred
Stephen) by the same person. But of all the
rulers only six survive-Belmore, Hercules Robin-
son, Loftus (who is seriously ill), Canngton,
Jersey, and Hampden.
“I dined once in the same hotel with a
gentleman who had just got his certificate. He
treated his friends to a large bottle of champagne,
in honor of the occasion.” — Vic. Insolvency Judge
Molesworth.
John Downer, the lazy leader of S.A.
Opposition, will be 53 on July 5. He is a native
of Adelaide and has sat in the Assembly con-
tinuously 7 for Barossa since April 1878, in which
year he became Q.C.
Alas for life’s ironies ! Premier Kingston
was made a Privy Councillor on June 22, which
was the 56th birthday of Srichard Baker, the man
he wanted to kill five years ago. Was this meant
as a reflection on Baker ?
The oldest bishop and the oldest actor in
Australia —Archbishop Murphy, of Hobart, and
Joe Raynor, of Surry Hills—were born on the day
of the Battle of Waterloo, 1815, and are now as
physically well as can be expected at 82.
Son of a nobleman, and great-grandson of
his celebrated military namesake—the Hon. Ralph
Abercromby, who “ passed-in ” the other day, at
Sydney, was, nevertheless, a refreshingly ■wnpromi-
nent personage. Explanation—he was a scientist.
Curious that no woman-doctor has seized
the occasion of the Record-ravings to whoop over
the fact that Her Gracious was helped into a cold,
hard world by a petticoated medico —then, of
course, an isolated phenomenon—imported from
Germany for the occasion.
Noticeable thatS.M. Herald, in reporting
jubilee matters in London, refuses to give knights'
wives their usual courtesy titles. Thus the
Herald chronicled the doings of Edward Braddon,
K.0.M.G., and “ Mrs.” Braddon, George Turner
and “ Mrs.” Turner, &e., &c.
At the Hotel Cecil—the Home of Pre-
miers very much abroad. Dinner-time. She:
“Do you like this ‘Emu’ wine?” referring to
Irving’s Australian product. He (very johnnyish):
“ No-o, I —eh —don’t believe—it’s made by emuse.”
“Fact,” says a correspondent.
Mayor -of - Sydney Ives was requested
lately to visit Randwick racecourse for a day’s
outing. His reply was that he never had been to
a racecourse and never would visit one. And yet
he ambitioned to be Lord Mayor of a sporting
community like that of Sydney.
Archdeacon Farr, the oldest Anglican
clergyman in S.A. was 78 on July 2. He was
trained as a lawyer but became a priest 52 years
ago, and for a quarter of a century was head
A USE FOR TAILINGS.
VISITOR (taking up a handful from the tailings-heap): “I
should think these tailings would be the very thing in
the manufacture of glass!”
RESIDENT: “ Yes; they’d make tine mirrors for the shareholders
to see themselves in.”
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, one of the oldest
institutions of its class in Australia,
R icardo ; “ Mr. Eddy instances again the
raz swordblade fraying through its sheath. I
u„ • j , y . . , ,
h ? ™°- st
continent. But the fast train high-
pressure express is fatal to the human frame,
whether with an Eddy or a Dickens .»
Professor M ‘Coy contemp i at e S an early
UnivSt nw “fG T'"' IK
faU to fLmal ’g£2?ss£
while the Directorate of Melb. Museum will cer-
tainly be filled by Prof. Baldwin Spencer,
a ■, ~ T 1. -vr ±. *
fi er y and energetic John Norton, of
Sydney Truth, may now be induced to go a little
slower. He should at last be seized by some
sense of responsibility, being the owner of Truth
and some we ll-bred fox-terriers, and father of a
bouncing boy whom he has christened Ezra, after
the Hebrew lawyer-ecribe. No man who owns a
newspap er and well-bred fox-terriers can afford to
be absolutely rash.
A FAIR TRIAL.
ARTIST: “I’ll give you five shillings if you’ll let me paint
you.”
MR. HARDUP: “ Look ’ere, sir; I don’t mind yer painting
me, if you’ll only tell me how to get it off again!”
Thomas Moore, the murderer, whose head
was judicially dragged off recently at Dubbo, was
a “ grave - and - reverend - seignior ”-looking old
fellow, with the features of an “eremite” and
the benevolently-flowing beard of a Sheikh-ul-
Islam. “ They run in all shapes ” —again !
Ayers’ Rock, that strange, smooth, gigan-
tic dome of rock in the Centralian desert, so well
described in Prof. Spencer’s “Larapinta Land,”
will shout old Henry Ayers’ name across weird
Amadeus to her sister sublimity, Mount Olga, long
after his paltry title and ephemeral legislatorship
have lost their virility.
There are rumors that David Syme (who,
Oy the way, is said to have acquired a big interest
in a Sydney paper) refused knighthood because he
deemed himself worthy of a baronetcy. The
style of the Age office illuminations would cer-
tainly not make it appear that David is, just now,
over-enthusiastic about Her Gracious Majesty.
Rupert Clarke took the seat of his father
in Vic. Leg. Council amid a salvo of “yah-yahs ”
from the Fats. Rupert is very much like Clarke
11., except for the beard and the bald head—which
latter feature is coming along rapidly. Srupert
has nice manners, and is well-intentioned and
good-natured—and will vote Fat on all occasions.
“Jimmy” Tyson’s confirmed celibacy is
regarded as a reaction owing to the persecution
his father suffered through having married against
his parents’ wishes. The elder Tyson was practi-
cally driven from pillar to post, finally finding his
way to Australia, where luck and he remained
strangers ever. “Jimmy” took his dad as a
lesson.
“Toby” Barton, who is known to have
had a call from Gov. Hampden, very likely de-
clined a Jubilee K.C.M.G. - ship. He was
probably not offered a P.C.-ship (which he
Sresumably would have taken), because that gift
ad been reserved on the present occasion as an
ex-officio decoration for those who happened to be
Premiers.
A beautiful (and genuine-looking) Queen
Victoria yarn told to The Bulletin by a Maori-
land correspondent: —
As this is the season of “ Record Reign ” an anecdote
of a personal interview with Her Majesty may be of pass-
ing interest. I was invalided home from Burma in the
spring of ’B4, and during my residence of three years in
that country had been on more or less intimate terms
with a certain commissioner in whom H.M. happened to
be personally interested. This commissioner’s proceed-
ings (especially some of an unofficial character) gave rise
to a number of stories of a rather humorous nature, a
few of which I was in the habit of relating to my friends—
one story in particular, which we will call “The looking-
glass story,” generally having the effect of producing
much merriment. On my return to England some of
these yarns were, I found, vastly appreciated in
semi-official circles ; but I was certainly surprised and
rather non-plused when I received a communication
“ commanding ’’ my presence at Windsor on a certain
day of the following week. A court official called on me
beforehand, and after instructing me in the procedure to
be followed, intimated that the Queen would like to hear
from mv own lips an anecdote of the commissioner, suggest-
ing (as I understood him) “The looking-glass story” as
the one likely to be appreciated. In due course I arrived
at Windsor, was driven to the Castle and given lunch,
after which I was ushered into an ante-room, and
given further hints on procedure and etiquette
while waiting the Queen’s arrival. In a few minutes
entered Majesty herself accompanied by a royal
princess. I was graciously received, asked a few ques-
tions about Burma, and was then asked by the princess
if I would relate to H.M. an anecdote of the commissioner.
I proceeded at once to tell “ The looking-glass story.”
About half-way through I glanced up and saw, to my
dismay, a look of set sternness on H.M.’s face and con-
sternation engraven upon the faces of the bye-standers.
I at once saw that a mistake had occurred, but it was now
too .late to draw back, and I finished the yarn. A frigid
(it seemed eternal) silence greeted me when I had con-
cluded, broken at last by these words from the Royal lips :
“We are not amused ! ” lam afraid that my subsequent
withdrawal was performed in a manner more hasty and
less dignified than is prescribed in the court code of
etiquette.
•‘The boys about Cobram,” writes
“ Scotty the Wrinkier,” “are glad of
Rupert Clarke’s accession to dignity.
Among all the whalers I never heard
anything but good of him. They say
he’d rather eat a slice of damper and a
chop in a burr-cutters’ camp than attend
a levee.”
Apropos the Record Reign —
Queen Vic.toria was once fined 7s. 6d.
in the police-court. She didn’t appear
personally, and, the fine being paid
with costs, Her Gracious didn’t have
to take it out. The crime on that
occasion was something about “non-
registration of birth.” If she gets
into trouble this Jubilee year, however,
through letting the palace chimney
take fire, that past conviction will
doubtless come up against her, and
she will be severely dealt with as a
hardened offender. N.S. W. Judge
Gibson, under such circumstances,
would probably give her three years
to prevent her “preying on society”
any further. That good old phrase it
so beautifully comprehensive that pre-
sumably non-registration of birth is
preying on society.
If a vestige of “ Big ” Clarke’s
canniness remains in the family line, his
grandson, Rupert, will presently start
upon another long tour in the East,
also the West and North, leaving his
Victorian properties to be nursed back
to vigor. Then, after a while, he
might return and play the part of
public and private benefactor for all it
is worth. It is worth a good deal to
any reasoning mortal. Sirupert, who
probably couldn’t cut out much of a
career himself, has an attractive one cut
out for him—to do nothing in parti-
cular until he is in a position to dis-
tribute heaps of money every year,
after which a statue to his memory.
A junior arguing before the late Mr. Jus-
tice Innes, (N.S.W.), cited a case as “3Q.8.D.”
“ That is not the way to quote references to me,
sir,” said the Judge. Counsel protested that he
was only using the ordinary formula for the third
volume of the Queen’s Bench Division Reports.
“I might as well,” retorted his Honor, “ say to
you, U.8.D.”
The execution of ex-hangman Moore recalls
the official strangler in “ Barnaby Rudge,”who
used to poke his patients in the ribs, and slap
them on the back, and exhort them not to be such
cowards about a mere bagatelle like hanging ; and
who died such a miserable cur when his own turn
came to be scragged. Moore wasn’t taken that
way, however.
Chainey, the long-haired individual, pane-
gyrist of Walt. Whitman, and traverser of the
whole gamut of belief and unbelief from rabid
orthodoxy to Theosophy (through Atheism), who
visited Victoria in the boom times as a Spiritualist,
had, at latest, settled down into the ranks of the
“Christian Scientists” or “Mental Healing”
people who are now exploiting Australia.
Josiah Beard, convicted of the Streaky
Bay (S.A.) murder, and self-confessed assassin of
another mate of his, is entirely uneducated and of
a very low type. It is a strange feature in the
cases that, had this South Australian Butler
chosen to keep his mouth closed, the police would
never have unearthed the bodies, which were in
each case buried in the swampy quicksands in the
western scrub country, miles from any habitation.
WRONG ON THE FACE OF IT.
WIDOW CASEY: “ What’s the use me givin ’ ye
anything extry for dinner? Divil a thing
I put on me table but ye turn up yer nose
at it.”
BOARDER ISAACS: “ Madam, dot is a physical
impossibility!”
S.A. Register lately unearthed Tom Play-
ford’s declaration, made in S.A. Assembly a few
years ago:—
I just want to say that while I do not know that a
knighthood would ever be offered to me, if it is offered, it
will undoubtedly be respectfully declined.
S.A. democrats begin to fear that “ Honest Tom ”
will be needed again in S.A. should Kingston
remain in London much longer.


AN EXPLANATION.
L.B.M.: "What do the letters ‘P.C. ’ stand for, George?”
DR. THE RIGHT HON. G. HOUSTON REID, P.C., LL.D.: “Well, they stand for (among other things) ‘Prudent Compromise.’ A ‘P.C.,’ my child, is a poli-
tician who travels on the Democratic ticket and so isn’t game to take a knighthood!”


JVe tw j/isrn-
Witli the disbandment of the Ruperts-
j'tt’ood half battery of Horae Artillery on
pOtli bjst. there will disappear from the
(Victoria Defence Force as smart and'
soldierlike a body of men as one could
'wish to see,and officers,non-eommissio»-
fed officers and men have in the face Of-
■ discouragement kept up the high miH-
ideal Horae Artillery,
//N
//
/ / -r
/ A f * v
//
/ ft [A
A y /A
//sk£
/■/ \tdcy
JfrW
A> v i
y/fe . _ ny?a7's 7/)is ? /te rfuftetfias-oo<rL
Jsat(.ei-js' <dfslanded ~ erne? Sar-yood
• /^/ * / Let Tlv/i
Y«/fe «. fun boa. f and annex. /
' ' \
tfust/-<x lt-cc aTonce .
%■
! All the Premiers were dressed in Vdi.«.
1 sor uniform, end repeatedly raised theif
i cocked hats in recognition of their recep-
! tion. Sir George Turner in
waved his haryl to the crowd.
ca At*.
ztras
Ij I '^*fs%?e*aY/c
fIX
\
\ -p.errtiV Paucs YK W|
f\c.^ '* ! tyat U
#
r >e /w" 1 ;
Vc> ,ce j 1 7
Yor te'ri a
uLM ii. .«/ , a
Huim /^v
/ /
Aty #•
y * e
AA>
/V 4 a
> ** , "|4
Pl/X
I I
v,v yw
Ao?
v
y
a> \£> 'MmtS
Y V TTWmm
■r- , tJTA
Jet Tinre. com//
Aome ot^a-er^-.
WSma
h ,o jf- - , t v
Mm, y'Y ,y
W 7 f/ y
nv'V^
jfa j/
MW t\Mil
fjllmr r \t>
W * 1 \
* <?. <?
<S* f^j|l
MELBOURNIANA.


Oranuma for Health ,
Fodah saveth Wealth,
fTomah for the very best of Bread;
And, if long life you’d see,
Just stick to Billy Tea ,
And — there’s really nothing further to be said,
Except try Oranuma Biscuits.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
A Valuable Manuscript
has been discovered, and no doubt, its contents
will throw a clear light upon a question of great
interest and importance. This manuscript came
from H. E. P. McDonald, Esq., Brisbane, ex-
Mayor of Clermont, Queensland, and was evidently
written for the benefit of Australians. It reads:
—“Eor two years I suffered from indigestion,
and various medicines and doctors could give me
no relief. My appetite fell away, and I dreaded
taking a meal. I lost strength and energy ; passed
sleepless nights ; and was compelled to re-
sort to opiates and stimulants in order to
fulfil my daily duties. Life contained no enjoy-
ment for me, Then one day, about a year ago,
Warner's ‘ Safe ’ Cure was recommended by a
friend as a certain cure. I had little hope, so many
medicines having failed, but decided to give it a
trial. After taking one bottle a change for the
better became apparent. I continued taking this
health-giving preparation for about a month ; then
the world changed for me. The sun shone brighter.
Sleeplessness vanished, and life was a torrid
zone once more. I consider by recommending this
medicine that I am conferring a boon, not on its
proprietors, but on suffering humanity.” *
EVERYONE SHOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
NEW LIFE ASSURANCE TABLE
OF THE
[iverpool & Condon & globe,
UNDER WHICH
ONLY ABOUT HALF THE AMOUNT of ORDI-
NARY PREMIUMS are PAYABLE by the
ASSURED DURING the FIRST FIVE YEARS.
Fire Insurances at the Lowest Kates,
Head. Office for Australasia : 62 Pitt Street, Sydney ;
with Branches and Agencies in all important centres.
Total Assets, 1895 ... ... ... ... £9,708 496
Total Claims Paid ... ... ... 32,796 540
Total Claims Paid in Australasia ... ... 2,269,404
Income for Year 1895 ... ... 2,339 628
Prospectus can be obtained on application at Hmn
Office for Australasia :
62 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
M. W. S. CLARKE, Resident Secretary.
FLUID SHEEP DIP
POWDER SHEEP DIP
FOOT-ROT “CURE” .
For further Particulars Prices, &c., apply to—
MORRIS, LITTLE & SOM LTD.
DONCASTER, ENG-., and MELBOURNE,
Or the following Agents —
STANLEY
Seelong ; F
Kingston, S
A.} QUEENSLAND
JAMES M'EWAN & CO. Ltd., Melbourne: DENNYS, LASCELLES, AUSTIN & GO
EiitVowTS'/oa; STi! 4 °°- Ad ‘ laid ' : JOHN a “<* 4 «C
POLITICAL
POINTS
P.C.—“Prudent Compromise.” Any other
“ honor ” might have meant P.P.G.
If, as seems possible, the present attempt
to federate falls through, the parsons will attribute
it to the non-recognition of the Deity in the pre-
amble of the Bill.
Cynical statement by Rupert Clarke
in submitting himself for election as a
Victorian M.L.C. :
I feel that it is not necessary for me at the
present time to enter into a detailed statement
of my political views.
Rupert Clarke, being a hereditary politi-
cian, has no need for political views, any-
how.
Maoriland is coming to the conclu-
sion that prohibition orders against drunk-
ards are a failure. When a person is pro-
hibited, he can’t get good liquor at any
hotel in the province if the hotelkeeper
knows him. But he can get bad grog at
any of the sly-liquor shops, and the num-
ber of prohibited persons is now so large
that it is worth while to run slygrog-
geries principally for the purpose of sup-
plying them with the worst kind of fusel
oil at exorbitant rates. This new feature
of the case breaks up all previous calcu-
lations, and leaves the inebriate as bad a
problem as ever.
The history of N.S.W. seems to
have had a lucky escape from Mr. Arthur
Galton. Comparing “ England’s Two
Great Queens,” Mr. G says that Eliza-
beth’s policy was always followed, and
that, where her Ministers didn’t agree
with her, events always proved them
wrong. This ! —in the face of accumula-
ted evidence that Burleigh and Walsing-
ham had a heart-rending job in steer-
ing their pig-headed and parsimonious
mistress clear of the idiotic courses she
wanted most of the time to follow. Eliza-
beth even wanted to lay up the English
fleet to save expenses, just when the Ar-
mada was about due ; and if she had had
her way the Spaniards might have reached
London practically unopposed. The only
“ greatness ” about Elizabeth was the
greatness of her advisers, and Victoria
doesn’t have even too much of that —but
the man who can sum-up a woman with-
out losing his head is even scarcer than
usual when the woman happens to be |a
queen.
Bundaberg (Q.) Guardian (on boss Tozer;:
He is at present the man in front; it was what he was
working for for many a year. He vanquished the Bris-
bane schoolboy, Tomjoe Byrnes, as M‘llwraith vanquished
Hume Black. And he now hungers for the golden apples
of success. This is the one and sole aim of the Queens-
land political Mephistophele3, and woe unto those who
stand in his way ; also, woe unto anyone else who places
any trust in him while he is pursuing his quest. Electoral
reform from Tozer ! Mercy from an avalanche !
The Jubilee ' ‘ honors 1 bring the seven
.Australasian Premiers to a level. They are all
titled grovellers ; some are K.C.M.G.’s and some
are P.C’s, and some are both, but everyone seems
to have grabbed with both hands at ali the title he
could get. “If you ever hear of me accepting a
title,” said Premier Reid a while ago, “you may
be sure lam a bit off.” And, as Reid has accepted
a title, the country thus has his own assurance that
he is “a bit off.”
Queensland Labor-party was once almost
exclusively Republican, but the recent Parlia-
mentary division on the grovelling address to
H.M. showed that it boasts that honorable Demo-
cratic distinction no longer. Northern and
Western members were mostly staunch as of yore,
but the Southerners . . After all, they were
even as their constituents. Nine-tenths of the
Queensland Democrats are in the North, Centre
and the Backblooks.
A Bulletin man is told by a Queensland
M.P. that Glassey was not really “re-elected
unanimously ” leader of the Labor-party Yet he
was actually so elected ! “ There was an intention
to propose another name ; noses were counted,
and it waS found that Glassey was ahead by one
or two. Thereupon, the second name was not
proposed, in order to make it appear that Glassey
was re-elected unanimously. ”
Mark Twain proposed to ridicule the
royalty and knighthood of the fifth century, by
making advertising media of the royal and loyal
processions, and rejoicings, and mail-clad warriors
of the time. The Record Reign illuminations of
last week, suggested the idea that Mark Twain
planted better than he knew, or else that all sense
of humor has long since died in Australian towns.
The Bulletin hears of several gaslight designs
like, “God Bless our Queen” and “Use——
Soap ” being shown on one shop-front.
Queensland —as a good, grovelling, boodle-
Tory, Chinojapanesy province ought—scoops far
more than equal share of record-reign baubles.
Democratic Maoriland gets nothing by compari-
son. Kissing goes by slaver
Melb. Post Office had a blazing “ Long to
reign over us ” on one of its facades on Tuesday
evening. Have the people who are responsible for
these things no sense of humor, or do they wish
the Queen to outlast the Empire ?
Of “ Railways ” Dickson’s C.M.G. bauble,
Brisbane (Q.) Observer pawkily remarks : “ Still,
the bud is better than nothing . . . there is
still land ahead.” All the same, there is not just
now a more secretly-savage bald-headed old man
in Queensland than that same J. Dickson.
Q. Premier Nelson (post-prandially pot-
valiant in London): “ Any doubt as to the credit
of Queensland would be regarded as a deliberate
insult.” Hie! Also, “never mind!” “ Oui,
oui, I saw ze Onglaze embr-r-acing my vife, and
ze vay in vich I slam ze door make it plain to him
zat I did not appr-r-ove of it ! ”
OF SUCH IS THE KINGDOM OF GROVEL.
“ Unsolicited Offerings.—A Message from, the Queen.
She regrets that the rules respecting offerings from
private individuals with whom she is not personally
acquainted prevent her accepting such presents in
commemoration of the sixty years' reign.”
Vic. : • ‘ The Imperial authorities must feel
nasty over refusals of knightage. Here is Deakin
refusing long ago, under advice of Service —and
Berry. One thinks of the forty-first fauteuil of
the French Academy, with its Moliere and Balzac.
We muse over the fish that have escaped the net,
with such big, staring names as Higinbotliam and
Lalor. If it would not give added lustre to Higin-
botham ; if he lost nothing, if he gained nothing
. Why? A parlous question for the Eng-
lander.”
A stock remark amongst re-
cent arrivals from Africa is that
Johannesburg will be a fine place
for Englishmen “after the war.”
Nobody seems in any hurry to ex-
press an opinion as to what kind
of a place Johannesburg will be for
Englishmen during the war.
The Parliamentary love borne
to the absent Tomjoe Byrnes was
made apparent by the peal of
satirical laughter that greeted
Labor-member Dawson’s interjec-
tion (when the seconder of the Q.
Assembly’s “ address -in - reply ”
mentioned Premier Nelson’s ab-
sence in England): “What about
the Attorney - General ? ” The
wholesale snigger was malicious.
One of Queen Victoria’s most
marked interventions in politics
was the racking of old “Pam”
for expressing approval of the ’5l
coup d’etat at Paris. But no
sooner was it evident that Louis
Napoleon was going to remain oh
top than he was warmly invited to
England, and received at Windsor
like a long-lost brother. The suc-
cess of success !
N.S, Wales passes annually,
in round numbers, 45,000,000
“ newspapers ” through the post;
Victoria passes something loss
than half that number. This
practically illustrates the working
of free postage. Numbers of
papers go in N.S. W. as newspapers
which are not so in any proper
sense, and would be called by their
proper name if they had to carry a
stamp. Free postage allures every
trader into the realms of make-
believe journalism.
Yic. Labor-party doesn’t seem to be quite
a happy family. There are four rifts, anyhow,
represented by Trenwith, Prendergast, Hancock,
and Hamilton.
During the Address-in-reply debate in Q.
Assembly, the nose-ringed Ministerialists followed
the policy of silence that was so successful when
party points were being worked towards the end
of last session. Labor - member had to follow
Labor-member, and only at long intervals did a
Ministerialist stand up.
One outcome of the recent scatter of P.C.'s
among Australian Premiers will be that future
Premiers will stand out for similar recognitions.
A P.C. is supposed to have confidential inter-
course with fellow-councillors in all parts of the
realm, and thus, by one stroke, the Australian
outlook becomes as wide as the world.
England has been engaged, during the
Record-reign, in 38 fights—counted from the first
Afghan campaign to the recent Benin trouble,
and ranging in magnitude from this latter up to
the Crimean affair, which cost over £100,000,000 —
the figure for all more than doubling that
amount. “ God gave her peace—her land re-
posed ! ”
The S.A. representative on the Federal
Convention who spent least money on his election
was Glynn, 8.A., who disbursed £l6 17s. 4d.
The delegate who spent most was Solomon, tenth
on the poll, who officially returns his expenditure
at £595 12s. 2d. The direct Labor candidates, who
ran very close to the last man elected, spent
£5 7s. 7d. each.
Q. Labor-members, although invited to
Gov. Lamington’s Jubilee-day dinner, did not
respond. Par better this, than attending and
refusing to “ toast ” Her Gracious. The Brisbane
dailies are, nevertheless, slating them for not
having attended. As if a man, even in a slave-
country, can’t go without his dinner if he so
chooses ! The appetite o’ Douglas, also, is his
own.
The first good consequence of Queens-
land’s coming into the Sept. Federal Convention
should be the extraction from the assembled dele-
gates of definite opinions on the colored-labor
question. So far, .elegates have talked generali-
ties on the subject ; some have let slip opinions
which they afterwards tried to explain away.
Queensland in the Convention should dispel these
ambiguities.
The Argus treatment of Gillies is precisely
similar to its treatment of Patterson before the
last general election. It disowned Patterson
and refused to be associated with his failures; and it
now does the same with desultory Duncan, and
will not hear of him as a possible leader of the
Vie. Stupid party. The Argus reminds one of a
demented sow rending its own litter. It helped
to create Gillies, and now it tramples on him.
Australian Natives’ panjandrums are mov-
ing with a view to coming Vic. elections. Hain
is variously allotted to eastern suburbs and
Toorak; Watt is to throttle Prendergast at N.
Melb., much to Crosbie’s disappointment, who
has now to be content with W. Melb. and the
little doctor; Heide and Cleary are both spoken of
for S. Yarra against Surplus-tax Rogers. Just as
well; the A.N.A. conceit has been swelling visibly,
and a pin-prick or two will do good all round.
Horace Tozer, of Queensland, has got a
K.C.M.G.-ship, while Byrnes isn’t even men-
tioned as having got a good view of the Jubilee
procession from a window. Byrnes’s hungry
cadging for an invitation has, so far, brought him
neither title nor honor nor advt. Among the sort of
crowd which supports the Nelson-Tozer-Byrnes
combination a title really has some value, and
Tozer has distinctly got a start of Byrnes. Still,
the latter will get his revenge in good time. His
title compels Tozer to wear his front name of
Horace in full view, and no community trusts a
man with a front name like Horace when it is
constantly reminded that his name is Horace.
PROOF POSITIVE .
“ The cyclist always gets the worst of the collision. Why, the
last Johnny I upset only lost three teeth, and I had
no less than six spokes knocked out.”
Probably a majority of Q. Assembly will
insist on the establishment of schools of mines as
parallels to schools of agriculture. Also, the patri-
archal agricola, Daniells, M.P., wants central
flour-mills as parallels to central sugar-mills.
MAYOR IVES .
Q. Labour-leader Glassey is playing the
game of “ soft-sawder ” on the Government and
Ministerialists. His champions aver that he is
working a long-headed, cautious scheme; others
of the labour party, especially among those out-
side of the House, “ have no patience with him.”
N.S.W. Postmaster - General Cook ia
opposed to the system whereby newly-ap-
pointed Cabinet Ministers have to go before
their constituents for re-election. Cook himself
experienced a little awkward resistance on this
point. His case was just one of those against
which the Act was directed. When a man severs
his party allegiance to take a post the publio
should have some check. The trouble is that the
present check doesn’t amount to a row of pins.
“Nevermind” Nelson declares that the
series of good Governors that Queensland has had
forms “ the link between the people of Australia
and the Throne.” Humph ! The giddy, debonnair
Bowen, the n.s.f. Blackall, the stingy Cairns, the
mediocre Kennedy, the presumptive Musgrave,
and now—Lamington ! Whew ! Norman was
the only really respected Governor Bananaland
ever had, and he was deservedly idolised. If the
series is the “strongest link,” it would take an
eternity to make a chain. And this paper is glad
to know it.
Worth noticing that Boss Tozer, In Q.
Assembly, paid Labor-leader Glassey the courtesy
of immediately rising to reply to Glassey’s first
sessional speech. Premier “ Nevermind ” Nelson
was too “orty ” ever to recognise Glassey’s status
by such public observance of etiquette. If pre-
sent, Nelson would slumbrously corrugate himself
on his upholstery, and never say anything but a
sardonic “Ha, ha!” of sudden laughter—just
when nobody expected it. More frequently he
was amusing himself elsewhere with a clay-pipe
and a whisky.
The Vie. Trades Hall people find Railway-
Commissioner Mathieson “ a whale for boy
labor,” and begin to see that if the V.R. deficit is
to be wiped out under the present regime it will
be at the expense of the moiler. The Depart-
ment is advertising for laborers, porters, carriage-
cleaners, from 17 upwards, pay 2s. a day, with
promised increments that will bring the wages
up to .£1 4s. a week in four years’ time ! These
are what the Argus calls “commercial princi-
ples.” After all, sweating is the fundamental
commercial principle. It must be remembered
that Vic. Railway Department has already hun-
dreds of “passed” applicants on its books who
are supposed to be waiting for openings.


Messrs. Callaghan and Son, 395 Georg e-
street, Sydney, the reigning house for 50 years for
good boots, holds the record in their business at
this time of record reigns. The firm, to com-
memorate the event of the hour, has struck off a
bright and shining medal and attached thereto the
blue ribbon of a blameless life. By this means it
records its own record for good work, thoroughness
and age, and Victoria Guelph’s record for age. #
Grime and Smith, late of Beaupin, Mel-
bourne, ladies’ and gents’ hair workers, have a
private room for ladies at their attractive estab-
lishment, King-street, Sydney. Specialty fringes,
toupets, scalpets and everything of the hair-
worker’s ingenuity is made a study by the firm.#
The fact that “Our Chief” tobacco has
been placed upon the Australian market by the
progressive firm of A. Cameron, 10 Bligh-street,
Sydney, is guarantee of its being the finest tobacco
manufactured in America.#
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER TILLS.
All kinds of STORES use the
National Cash Register—
GROCERS, IRONMONGERS,
DRUGGISTS, BUTCHERS, STA-
TIONERS, BOOTS & SHOES,
CIGARS & TOBACCO, DRY
GOODS, RESTAURANTS, TEA
STORES, FLORISTS, and
HOTELS, etc. They save time,
work, worry, and money, and
systematize your business'.
100,000 IN USE.
UMOKTs
The N.C.R. stops the leaks by ex-
hibiting the amount of each
sale, preventing disputes in
accounts : Keeping a record of
Credit Sales, Moneys Paid Out,
Moneys received on account ;
showing the total amount of
Sales during the day, making
it impossible to open the Cash
Drawer without leaving a record.
Showing the amount of money
taken out of the Cash Drawer
and not entered.
We have all kinds of CASH REGISTERS—DetaiI-adding, Total-adding, Total-adding Check and
Detail-printing and Autographic, from £5 to £6O.
We Sell on Easy Monthly Payments, or a Discount of 5 per cent, for Cash.
. . SPECIAL TERMS FOR A NUMBER . .
We GUARANTEE every Register we sell for TWO YEARS—but it will last a business lifetime.
“ They perform everything- that is claimed for them.”—CIVIL SERVICE STORES.
, “Itis a most excellent machine for our business.”—WlLLlAMS & GIBBONS
“ They pay for themselves in a very short time.”—PATTINSON & CO.
“ No hotel should be without them.”—The AUSTRALIA.
“ Since August 29 we have used TWELVE of your National Cash Register machines. These have given us
every possible satisfaction. Nothing would induce us now to be without them. These machines were purchased to
replace the Lanison Cash Carriers. Your Registers reduce the possibility of fraud on the part of the salesmen and
save the petty thefts of the cashier.”—F. LASSETTER & CO., Ltd. p salesmen, ana
FISHER & LIN6HAM, Sok Importers for Australia.
Head Offices
i.
2 & 3 VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY.
AGENCIES l 1
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, DUNEDIN
' AUCKLAND, SUVA, and HONOLULU.
HOIMi)’!! marvellous HHID RESTORER
T S rightly considered by thousands of people
-*■ who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
*33
c/S
*
*
52
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
MR. HOLLAND. Booligal Station, New South Wales.
Dear Sir,—l want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer, but Ido not know the price.
If you will let me know, I will send you the money. I have tried various Hair Restorers]
and I find yonrs far and away the best. I bought a bottle of it when in Melbourne, but
jt is used up.— l remain, Yours faithfully, j os> j Harris.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. Gd., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair
193 COLLINS STRLET, MELBOURNE.
.xxintd:.
a Hi
IliXp/T/
THE
‘ Plum*
GENTLEMEISI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent l > ost Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
POPULAR BANGLE RINGS.
SINCE INTRODUCING THIS PRETTY NOVELTY WE HAVE SOLD THOUSANDS,
5*
( EXPANDING.
FIT ANY SIZE
FINGER.
Bs. 6d. & 10s.
EACH.
EXPANDING.
ANY INITIAL.
10s.
EACH.
POST FREE.
PLAIN BAND
Extra Strong.
12s. 60.
EACH.
State Size R*
quired.
s '»li'l Gold, with Amethyst, Topaz, Garnet, Opal, Moonstone, Oval and Heart Shape Hanging Pendants. When
Ordering, kindly state Shape of Pendant Required.
AET JEWELLEES AND WATCH MANUFACTURERS,
90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
NOTE
Our Only Australian Address—
HaVg YoO s€€i) . . .
eui shoui Room
On the Third Floor of their Music Warehouse?
Visited DAILY by crowds of people, who are astonished and delighted with the
Grand Exhibition of Musical Instruments of Infinite Variety and Enormous Extent.
NUNPRCPS OF VIOLINS from SS. to £soo.
Some Choice Specimens of Old Masters.
Copies of Stradivarius, Guarnerius, Otto, and other noted makers.
GUITARS, MANDOLINS, ZITHERS,
BANJOS, AUTO-HARPS,
FLUTES, FIFES, FLAGEOLETS,
CLARIONETS, CONCERTINAS,
ACCORDEONS, MOUTH ORGANS,
HORNS, WHISTLES, OCARINAS, etc.,
MUSICAL BOXES, POLYPHONS,
ARISTONS, ORGANETTES, etc.,
Brass Instruments —CORNETS, TROM-
BONES, EUPHONIUMS, DOUBLE
BASSES.
Tb?rc is a Special Case of BooS*y& Co.,
with a Fine Assortment of this Celebrated Maker’s Goods,
and another for
BcSsoq & Co. of Similar IpstrtirpcQts-
The eye wanders with pleasure over the many handsome show-cases and
beautiful instruments, and there is amusement and instruction to be gained
by a visit to this extensive display.
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO CALL.
Whether you buy or not, we shall be glad to see you. Or write for Price Lists
and Catalogues. Wholesale and Retail.
TAKE THE LIFT TO THE THIRD FLOOR
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IELLIN'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
Is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
Strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of all Dealers throughout the
world.
G. MELLIN, Marlboro’ Works,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co.
John Connell & Co., Ltd.
.-mm
Sp£6D &
:
*
rfjggl|w
’mM i
811
ir ;
JiSSs;tl«s
a
/
- r
'
m
■.
mi
mm
P*
|
WsMm
Mil
k
:
I
I
a
a<,o-
FIRST !IM ■
reBa
foremost
eve* 51NC&
Best


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
lllMlltlC I(II»I4II> KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
Only Address:
74 CASTLEREA.GH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James' School, between King & Market Streets).
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
vious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every .£1 to i£lo ' - *
sd. per month for every pound over ,£lO
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over <£so •
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Ad vanoes made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up.. .. .. £2,950,211 ss.
Directors *
flon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Predk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry G.vles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm.. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office.: 1 Lishopsi/ote Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.-
Haymarket, Gosford .with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ' .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
v Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capita] payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £1,280,000 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 928,527 16 4
Directors:
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors:
William Bulooek, Esq.; G. C. Horstmann, Esq.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout. Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East..
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper : makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
LIFE POLICIES. REVERSIONS.
ANNUITIES. LIFE INTERESTS.
The Utmost Market Value Obtained,
Howden & Company
or Mortgages ar-
ranged at 6% per
annum by
98 Elizabeth St.
(The Block),
Proprietaiy Ltd.,
Mlelto ourne.
(Able Address— Riemseil. . Telephone No. H 95.
Code— MOREING & N EAT., eta Box No. 337, G.P.O.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SH AREBROKE RS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
available. Latest Information from Speoial Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
* Particulars of all Australian Investment and Mining
Si ocks
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE" invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
TbiS CorijpaQy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
™ United Australian
Mutual Fir a Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee, Authorised Capital £500,000 0 0
Plate Glass, Fire, & Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Accident Insurance. Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 70 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins -
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
ffASGARA— HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEbS CICARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Kestorative.
SAVARESSt’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free fwn the ob-
jections to allGcla'inc Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Banking, Public-Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,514 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1896 £6,140,067 0 0
DIRECTORS ; F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
nr»HE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890."
Authorised Capital .. .„ .. .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up „ ..- £1,697,976 5 5
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 52,023 14 7
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vioe-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc. ; Auditors: W. H.Tuckett,
Esq.; Andrew Bums, Esq. Chiet Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide', with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: J. G. Addison. New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M..D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager; H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
ipHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office— Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 225,000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banhing Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
Sir W. P. Mannino, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:-Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
TB6 Him STORE, ltd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Universal Providers.
£BT Please Write for Catalogue of Prices.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.*
RcgiOald A. F. Murray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
X
Hotels.
“ DRINK NO LONGERWATER, butuse a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
rpOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
The manager,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
lATest& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
W A RN A M BOOL
Peregrine, Friday, July 2, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, July 10, 2 p.m.
Ti [
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PIRIE
Leura, Saturday, July 10, 2 p.m.
Buninyoua:, Tuesday, July 13, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tuesday, July 13, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Saturday, July 3, 2 p.m.
'Konoowarra, Tues., July 6, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS
Tyrian, Saturday, July 3, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 10, 2 p.m.
Cargo tor all Ports received Daily
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Lite Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian*
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Saturday, July 3.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney) Friday,
July 9.
ALBANY, 'i
FREMANTLE, f
Transhipping at Fremantle
to -
VASSE, DONGARRA, S
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports, j
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Saturday, July 3.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Friday, July 9.
ESPERANCE BAY J-
Steamerfrom Adelaide every Sat’day.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Franklin, Tuesday,
July 6.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G-. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, Parker & go’s [ine
—TO — .
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
! Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
Oanadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
. ' —TO—
FIJI, VANCOUVER,
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booted Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
171NGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the. Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MOANA
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street: Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and
PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract
with the French Government, calling at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY
COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID, will be
dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India,
China, Batavia, and Japan.
PASSAGE MONEY, .£25 to .£7O, including
table wines.
RETURN TICKETS at REDUCED RATES.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s
Offices, Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC, ,
Principal Agent.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
A. U. S. IM. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Oooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND'S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
635.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown
616.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne , or
GEO. WILLS CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
Business Announcements.
Ladies’
Hair
PLAITS and TAILS 20ln. long-, each ss. 6a.
FRINGES, Natural Curly, each, from 3s. 6d.
COMBTNGS or CUTTINGS worked up, per oz. ,2s. 6d.
Post Orders promptly attended to. Send Color of Hair,
also stamped envelope for full price-list, to
W. H. Wigzell, 110 Willlniii-st- Only, Sydney.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY).
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Triumpb..”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fisb, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
Atpericai) Import Co.,
PACKER’S AGENTS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Lend tug Warehouses.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office : King & York sts
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Wasbingfcon-st.,
near Druitt-st.reet.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Speci.il Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons. Customs Entries Passed.
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE BRAND, 3 sizes '... 10/- and 12/6 Each.
KRAMM BRAND 6/-, 6/6, 8/6, and 10 6
KROPP BRAND 6/6 and 7/6 „
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6,10/6 ~
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 6/- upwards.
"PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saloon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M'GEE, Hairdresser, &c.,
5 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
MUSIC IN TtuE HOUSE MAKES
CHEERFUL HAPPY HOMES.
.PATENT
CAMPBELL’S
GOLD MEDAL
MELODEONS
Have Organ and Celestial Tone,
and Sweet Bell Accompaniments.
No Home should be with-
out one. The solemn Psalm,
, , the soul-stirring Hymn, the cheer-
mi song, and the Merry Dance, can all be played on these
charming Instruments. No know ledge of Music 1( equibed.
A Useful and Pre ty Present. Enormous Demand.
200,000 TESTIMONIALS.
Good News and Special Offer to Headers of the
“ Sydney Bulletin.' 1
Campbell’s “Gem” Iffelodeon price only 10/8
Campbell’s “ Favourite ” Melodeon „ 22/6
, Cut out this and send P.O.O. lor the amount.
Either sent carriage paid to any address in Australia or
New Zealand. Worth Double the Money.
All lovers of music should at once send for our New Illus-
trated Privile e Price List for Musical Season 1SU7,. now ready -
160,000 of these valuable Lists sent out yearly. Semi to
CAMPBELL & Co., Musical Instrument Makers
116. Tmngate, GLASGOW. Est. 60 Years. Agents WarilLo


FISHER & CO’S
MATRICARIA
(REGISTERED).
UNSURPASSED
For Children Cutting their Teeth, and the various
Slight Derangements incident to Infancy.
DOSE.—Under six months, half a powder, dry on the
tongue, every three hours; above six months, one powder,
dry on the tongue, every three hours. If the child is in
much pain, or very restless, a few doses may be given every
one or two hours.
In Boxes, Is. Three Boxes for 2s. 6d.
Postage extra, Id.
THE PUREST AND MOST EFFECTIVE POWDER
KNOWN TO SCIENCE.
Wholesale from Elliott Bros., Aust. Drug
Compt., Hoffnung’s, and any other Wholesale
House,
ALSO,
At tbs Pharmacy,
537 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(nearly opposite G.P.0.).
E R
. B 0° m
Me
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGAN, 20 holes, 40 tangent,
alloyed steel reeds, loudest, sweetest, and strongest ever
invented—2s. 6d.; small size, Is. 6d. NATIVE WA-
RATAH MOUTH ORGAN, with oelluloid sliding covers,
price 2s.
J. ALBERT & SON,
Largest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments and
Spectacles. Illustrated Catalogue of Violins, Accordeons,
Cornets, Mandolines, Music, etc., posted free on applica-
tion, 118 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Music makes Cheerful, Happy Homes!
O
Send P. 0.0. for 18 6 to GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, and get one of
Coxoo’sNotcdAccordcoD*,
Or call at one of our Branches—lB2 King-st., Newtown;
8 Walker-st., North Sydney; 79 Hunter-st., Newcastle;
82 High-st., West Maitland; or Peel-st., Bathurst.
W. F. COXON & CO., Ltd.,
Not only SELL goods CHEAP, but is a Good Investment
for Shareholders. A dividend of 6 per cent, has been
declared. Send for catalogue—FßEE.
&
TH
I
1
RpyAi Warrant ®a3^a^g Rg .f
TpHcrMaJESTVTHE QoEEN. » "
r JO Gold & Prize Medals Awarded.
(THE WHISKY OF HIS FOREFATHERS.
RAFFAN'S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
paoket. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., 'MELBOURNE.
pCAFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and .Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST,
146 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION-.
WINES B ™•* °* ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
mm#
■
■
MHHMI
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Gold, Silver, [ead m Copper Ores $ Products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
I nil M UniAin I (late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
JUMIM nUWtLL, Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
vc m
Is of Unequalled Value as a Household Beverage.
Easy to Make—Easy to Digest and of Exquisite Flavour.
Adaros Hotel,
PITT ST., S^TDIsrEPr.
AdarpS Cafs, Street.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION.
TERMS: FROM Bs. PER DAY.
. A AA A 444444,
VISITORS CAN IHNE IN HOTEL OR CAEE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Tel 728
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
\
s
NEVER CAUGHT A COLD
FISHER AND CO.'S
Fan>oOS Natara
(REGISTERED)
CURES - - The Head,
CURES - - The Throat,
CURES - - The Chest.
Once Tried, always Recommended for
COLDS, COUGHS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH,
&c., &c.
A MOST CERTAIN REMEDY, UNRIVALLED FOB
QUICK ACTION AND IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
One DOSE RELIEVES. One BOTTLE CURES
PLEASANT TO THE TASTE.
Arthur Cocks and Co.,
Wholesale Opticians, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— l was persuaded to try your Nataka re-
cently whilst suffering from a heavy cold, and its effect
was far beyond my expectations. One dose effected a
marked improvement, and next day I had fully recovered
from the cold, after taking- four’doses. It is the best
remedy I have ever used.—Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR COCKS.
Manufactured only by the Proprietors,
FISHER AND CO.,
WHOLESALE CHEMISTS AND
DRUGGISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per Bottle ;
By Post, 6d. and Bd. Extra.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WHEN TN TOWN
CAN OBTAIN SINGLE DOSES, 3d. per dose.
To be had from all Chemists and Storekeepers in the
Colonies. Beware of Imitations, and insist upon being
served with NATARA, and no other Cough Mixture.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Sydney and Parramatta!
PATTINSON (all shops).
Wholesale from—Elliott Brothers; Australian Drug
Company; Hoffnung’s; Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co. ; or
any other Wholesale House.
mg?
FREEv^.
nWTCHES* Clocks-
Weddidlc z QtaisTEriitlc Presents
H’NeWMAFJ- 1755177-FII7ARFTri St.
OPPOSITE G:P.Q.— -
MELBOURNE-
COUGHS, COLDS ON TH3 CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY C.RED BY . .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure
rpHOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Cough, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, and
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR. W. G. Hearne. -Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so. dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write you this acknowledg-
ment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the medicine
gave me welcome relief, anil 1 steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I
became, as l am now, quite well. —-Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
“Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speed}' cure. —J. WYATT, Geelong.”
“Mr. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Your Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. I never coughed since the second dose. lam truly grateful to you for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good.—Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. The first
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely cured him. We always keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine, to try it; he did so, ana it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you like of
this, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too widely known :
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it. —Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“My son, six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat ano
along back of lung's, and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments. Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.—J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tamworth.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
proving ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—YourS respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, dun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria. ”
“Mr. W. G. Ilearne.—Sir, -Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle you sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M' BEAN, Carlton.”
“Dear Sir,—l had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, ,f. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“Dear Sir, —Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doitm
a lot. of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
“ Mr. W. G. Ilearne.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and l got so weak that I could not leave rnv bed.
At this stage I was pronounced to be in consumption. • 1 had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Ao-n of your Bronchitis
Cure. I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved. After taking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to get up, and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends.—Yours truly, E. SMITH. Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria. ”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain ,Hearne's Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
My ers-street,, Geelong, And fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wholesale and Retail by the Proprietor, W. G. Hoarne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Medicine Vendors. Forward by pdsl to any address when not obtainable locally.
Small size, 2s. 6d,; large, 4s, 6d. Sold b
y Chemists and


Packets
Q
e»ru/j/jtA\S
zmiJAVrj'
pdj
c*
07 /u!
7bf)d
11
suvnij
►airf
wss<K
g
Is.
LOMBARDIA
2/6 CURES PILES. 2/6
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says:—
“ It is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
Mr. J. I. Marshall, dental surgeon, of 28
Wynyard Square, desires to inform the public
that he has perfected his new process for absolutely
painless extraction of teeth by local anaesthesia.
Unless this is done he will not charge any fee.*
Wide Awake ! £430 for 21 cart-horses
is the lucrative price just obtained through vij i-
lance in watching for new buying blcod. Pitt,
Son and Badgery, Ltd., sold them to go to “The
West.”*
In Victoria, the law relating to companies
already comprises seven acts, and since the appear-
ance of the recent lengthy addition, several indices
have been published. The latest and most com-
plete is that compiled by Messrs. J. M‘A. Howden,
F.1.A.V., and R. J. Oehr, A.1.A.V., which shows
careful preparation and covers 106 quarto pages.*
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough. the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection—
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
A Boon to Sufferers.— A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to sell, I
want no money.” Address—J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
The general feeling is that the best rail-
way man available in the world should be ap-
pointed, at whatever cost, to succeed Mr. Eddy.
The matter is not one involving £3500 or <£7ooo, or
even .£lO,OOO a year; it concerns the efficient
management of a capital of 38 millions sterling.
After two months wasted in N.S.W. Par-
liament making speeches for or against the
Federation Bill in general—what is it all about ?
The Parliament is to suggest amendments only.
It has no authority at this stage to either accept
or reject the Convention Bill, and members’
opinions on Federation in general are as utterly
useless and irrelevant just now as their opinions
about the lost grave of Moses. The correct course
was to go into committee on the details of the
measure right away, and all the oratory so far is
mere gas and wasted jaw and loose perfunctory
howl upon the desert air.
To enable people «o pass judgment on the
recent extensive sale, at an average of less
than a shilling a copy, of books from N.S.
Wales Public Library, it will be necessary
for an official list of the books in question to be
published. if, as is currently averred, the
volumes disposed of at the figure named included
complete old-time files of the S.M. Herald and
other Australian papers, together with copies of
the rarest old Australian books, the transaction in
question will need much explanation. It is stated
that many of the volumes have found their
way into the hands of the keenest and richest
Australian book-collector, whose library, the envy
of all connoisseurs, is so complete that he now
seldom buys any save the rarest of books.
“At the Colonial Club dinner,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ none
looked better or younger than old Sir George
Bowen, the ex-Victorian Governor, of gay reputa-
tion. The Marquis of Lome, now Governor of
Windsor Castle, was bloated, but eloquent; Sir
Saul Samuel, a picture of good nature framed in
his chin-and-jowl haloing beard, resembling the
frizzed hair of the stage Irishman, spoke tersely
and well, and looked decidedly Krugerish; Sir
Andrew Clark was portentously diplomatic, as a
long-winded pensioner must be; Tom Playford
and Reeves were absent; and * Rennie ’ Windeyer
—well, well—he sat all the evening, with much
starched shirt pushed out over his plate, jaws
clamped, and lips set like a fine-steel toothless gin-
trap, and dined unmoved. At last his turn came,
and he rose. He spoke for a Jubilee trinket, and
maybe got it [No, Sir.—Ed- B.], though he half
sounded the only harsh note —compared to the
monotonous chorus of everlasting loyalty—of the
evening. ‘lf England did not treat her colonies
of Australasia considerately ’ —the threat was not
completed. ”
“ There is much dissatisfaction at the Aus-
tralian Agents-General offices over seats for the
Ju bi lee processi on,” writes The Bulletin s London
correspondent. “It was hoped that a stand would
be set apart for colonial dignitaries and indignita-
ries, so that a specially topical ovation might burst
on the Empress-Queen’s ear-drums. But the
Home office feared the wildly loyal yells of the
Coo —ee colonists would so upset the old lady
that she might turn back or refuse to go on
or order up the gory heads of the two chief
offenders on a fish-plate. So they sold—are you
listening, sentimental, imperial-federationists?-900
seats to the combined ‘colonies,’ including Canada
and the Cape. These seats are spread along the
route, some here and more there and several
nowhere in particular. Many of the stands are
already erected (21st May) and, thanks to the
L.C.C., fine, solid structures they are; but they
won’t accommodate half the people that would pay
to get on them.”
George Westinghouse tried to sell his patent
railway brake for .£6OO, but could not find a pur-
chaser. In the subsequent ten years it brought
him in three millions of money. There are many
other things still to be invented just as valuable as
a railway brake. But many inventors have lost
their patents through defective specifications,
claims, etc. This risk can be avoided by inventors
consulting Mr. Arthur Griffith (M.L. A), Patent
Agent, Sydney, who will not only do the work with
exactitude, but at rates within the reach of every
inventor. For instance, .£2O will secure Pro-
visional Protection in the whole of the seven
colonies of Australia and Great Britain, and
Foreign Patents can be obtained through him at
similarly reasonable rates.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
“ I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. Gd.
Sole Agents :
\
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st., Sydney
(OR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
JJ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is « THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)*
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE * MOTOR CO., Limited,
45 York Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
The V.R.C. Grand National meeting, which
opens on Saturday, should draw big’ger crowds than have
patronised the Flemington winter carnival for some
years past. Final acceptances for the big hurdle-race,
due to day (July Ist), promise to leave nearlv 30 candi-
dates on the card ; maybe a field of 25 will actually start
I° r i , u ’’ ll . ue journey. It is a long journey, and the
enci thereof seems more than usually difficult to guess at.
wist year little Dungan appeared a safe thing to predict
v**’. a place,” yet he ran nowhere behind a couple of
ank outsiders in Buzzi and Zouroff, and a week later his
disappointed backers (for the hurdle-race) saw him win
the steeplechase handsomely.
Ihe Manifolds’ stable will have Soult for its
champion this time. A good-looking 4-year-old, with
a fairly-light weight to carry, Soult is bound, bar acci-
dents in the meantime, to start favourite for the G.N.
Hurdle Race, but his recent winning-form gives no
guarantee that he will stay the distance. So-and-So, a
black gelding from Ballarat, seems quite as likely to see
the battle through to the bitter end, and if he should
prove as stout as the betting-market suggests, the pace
that enabled him to best Aurum in the autumn will bring
him ahead of Soult and everything else. The mighty
Miller stable doesn’t look very dangerous for the Hurdle
Race. Hive has not done well of late, and Ripple is sore.
All the same, the mare, if started in preference to Hive,
may give followers of the red and white a good run for
their money.
Owner Glasscock reckons old Larrikin fast
enough to carry list. 81b. victoriously over the hurdles,
so the brilliant ’chaser is pretty certain to cut a good
figure at the finish. The Bulletin, expecting anything
to romp home, will give special chances to So-and-so,
Borderer, Larrikin, Exchange, Soult, Ripple, His Grace,
First Ascot, Carbonate, and Legs. Boiling these down to
So-and-so, Exchange, Borderer, Larrikin, and Carbonate,
this journal votes for them scepticallyin the order named.
Consideration of the G.N. Steeplechase chances will keep
until next week. Meanwhile, The Bulletin may as well
repeat its hint of two or three weeks ago—that Zouroff is
a good one when ripe. And they are getting him ripe.
Considering the present dearth of really tried
stayers, the bookies are fairly liberal in laying 1000—1 the
two Cups, and already several supposed “ rods in pickle”
have been snapped up; O’Trigger and Positano being
especially voted “ good things ” by the man at the
corner. In Caulfield Cup the N.S.W. contingent has been
very fairly dealt with by the handicapper, and True Blue,
Positano, Hopscotch, Sayles, Valiant and Hindoo will
have most to fear from The Chevalier, Mora, Resolute
and Response. In Melb. Cup, Reka, True Blue, Toreador,
Amberite and Hopscotch should worthily represent the
mother province—having most to fear from O’Trigger,
Pivot, Alabaculia and YVait-a-Bit, who will perhaps im-
prove even on his Australian Cup form.
* * * *
Mr. T. N. Fitzgerald, the eminent Melbourne
surgeon who races as “Mr. T. Naghten,” is one of the
jubilee knights.
* * « «
At length the starting-machine (Gray’s) is to be
given a fair trial at the headquarters of the English
Jockey Club. Vexatious false starts, the bane of English
racecourses, will soon be but a memory of the past.
* * * •
The Tas. stayer, Benedict, who performed
creditably at V.R.C. Autumn meeting, has done a good
preparation “on the quiet,” and is whispered as a good
thing for to-day’s (Sat.) V.R.C. G.N. Hurdles, in which he
is weighted at lost. 91bs., not prohibitive considering his
fair performances on the flat.
♦ * *
Re “Surcingle.” “They run in all shapes’’
was a hackneyed expression at ’Ome long ere Don Juan’s
Cup year (1873). It is generally attributed to the famous
trainer, John Scott, of Whitewall, the wizard of the north,
but doubtless Noah made the same remark to Mrs Noah
when the animals scooted from the Ark.
* * * *
The reciprocity as regards disqualifications,
which is supposed to exist between all Australian racing
clubs, is evidently a sort of fiction, for one of the most
prominent figures on N.S.W. courses to-day is a man re-
cently warned off Flemington by the V.R.C. The scribe
of one of the Melb. dailies who chronicled this fact was
met one night by an irate friend of the man standing
down, and was emphatically stoushed by him as a protest
against the freedom of the press.
* * * *
During the N.S.W. parliamentary discussion on
betting and racing nothing was so common to hear as the
wisdom of leaving all to the A.J.C. But has that body
proved worthy of such confidence ? Is it not a fact that
the whole evil arose from the club’ssupinenesswith regard
to the pony business ? We are told that the clubites would
spend all the money that went into their coffers on racing.
Judging by the present state of the Distressed Jockeys’
Fund, they would take their time over it. The club, as a
club, makes no money directly out of racing, but, unless
rumor lies, individual members do so by crooked means.
Then why should a representative body like Parliament
implicitly trust a proxy-recruited executive? If the
reform of racing is to be left to the A.J.C., that body
itself will have to be reformed, and in no piecemeal fashion
either
* * * *
One of Sydney soup-piave courses recently
gave forth that it would allow all sorts and conditions of
disqualified mokes and owners to run, a statement that
brought forth the ukase from Kensington that it would
disqualify all ponies running on a course which recog-
nised the cronk ’uns. This settles the matter, as a pony-
club tabooed by Kensington might as well shut up shop.
Dear Bulletin, — Is your sporting man correct
in saying that “ Tasmania is the first Australasian pro-
vince to give formal Parliamentary sanction to gambling
for private advantage ” ? Queensland has had legalised
totes for some years now ; the winners get their “ private
advantage,” the “toters” theirs, the club that owns the
ground its, and the Government its.— Dipso.
* * * •
While Prince Tummy and a Prime Minister
keep on winning Derbies, the saints have “Buckley’s”
show of suppressing horseracing and gambling, on which
racing admittedly depends.
* * • *
Australian boxers had a bad time last week in
Eng., and the U.S. “Starlight” went under to one
Chrisp, on a foul ; Tom Williams was beaten by Tom
®y al ? m two rounds; and the hitherto invincible
Griffo” succumbed to Young in three rounds. No
details are to hand, but Qriffo, although kept off grog by
quod,” could not have been in the best of trim after
months of prison diet. Griffo’s hitting was never of the
smashing sort; but his phenomenal cleverness has always
hitherto enabled him to make a draw of it, even on
top of the maddest “ burst.”
* * * •
The disqualification of stousher Starlight on a
foul, during his fight with Chrisp, at Newcastle, Eng.,
recalls the nigger’s many Australian contests which
ended unsatisfactorily. Whereas the average pug. con-
tents himself with pounding his adversary’s jaw as often
as possible, Starlight was addicted to introducing floor-
wrestling into the game. He would also frequently prod
opponents in thestomach with his copious foot and haul
on their ears during these sand-scrambles, and, when the
ring had been rushed and the parties were pulled apart
with a pop, Starlight would invariably come forward to
the ropes and say he was only a poo’ iggerunt nigger,
who wanted to fight fair for a livin’. He would add that
the cullud man cud’nt get fair play, and would almost
burst into tears as the referee declared him guilty of a
foul. Ten to one Starlight delivered the same old speech
at Newcastle
* * * •
It now appears that poor Charley Cavill’s stop-
under water records were made with the assistance of an
inverted barrel sunk before the show began, and it is
supposed the air in the cask became contaminated with
gas, the baths in which he performed being filled from
some natural-gas wells.
* * • »
Yankeedom kept up its reputation for wooden
nutmegs by rigging a bogus kinetoscope of the Fitz-Cor-
bett fight. Two bruisers as near like the two men as
could be attained were readied-up as Fitz and Corbett
and went through a “schlenter” fight, finishing with
Fitz’s historic heart-blow. The show was said to be for
Australia, but the crowd gave itself away by show-
ing first in the States, where some men who had seen the
real Roger exploded the fairy tale. The promoters de-
served a better fate.
* * * *
Norwood beat youth Adelaide on 22nd June —
5 goals 6 behinds to 4 goals 6 behinds. Attendance esti-
mated at 12,000—a record for three years. Adelaide foot-
ball is apparently being made to order. Norwood and
Port are level for top, the allegedly invincible “ Souths”
second.
• * * •
Another new sculler. Tressider, of Newcastle,
N.S.W., is anxious for a match with the burly Jem Stan-
bury. Tressider, under Chris. Neilson’s tuition, is said to
be a coming man, and was anxious to row Towns before
the latter’s departure.
* « * *
Ere Towns had time to get on a match with the
minor talent, and thus win a little English gold, he was
challenged by his countryman, Wray.
* * * *
People in Newcastle (Eng.) think Wray the
greatest sculler seen on the Tyne since Hanlan in his
palmy days. Those who know say that there is much in
common between the two—that Wray is phenomenally
fast for a mile or so, but no stayer. Of course, his great
speed would enable him to cut down any ordinary man
who tried to live beside him, but a sticker like Beach
would eventually find out the weak spot. It is said that
Towns can stay for a week.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Wheelmen’s League is losing all
sight of the goose that lays the golden egg. The league
won’t pay top-notchers to race, therefore many of these
won’t race ; consequently the public, which pays every-
body, won’t pay to watch a 19-event programme consist-
ing mostly of second and third-class handicaps. The very
name “second and third-class” would down anything.
Nobody wants second or third-class sport, or whisky, or
honeymoon, or tobacco, or anything else. At present the
league’s best prizes are annexed by the aged dodderer or
third-class derelict whom somebody calls Tommy or
Jorgey or Jim or Bill. The public has quite enough of
the dodderer and the derelict and of Tommy and Jorgey
and Jim and Bill in its own immediate family, and
therefore it is not going to rush miles to Sydney Cricket
Ground for the sake of forking out 2s. to see its own
family derelicts come out and wobble and wobble and
wobble. The public always avoids its own relatives when
it wishes to enjoy itself.
The above remarks just about say all that’s
worth saying concerning the League’s V.R. meeting. The
relieving feature, when it did come, usually arrived in the
form of a race that was more third-class, or more aged, or
more derelict, or more Jim or Bill than a preceding race.
For instance, the “ Ordinary Handicap.” What a name 1
The starters were Harry, Charley, Bill, Jack and Fred.
Fred, rode well until he got a pain in the stomach, when
he fell off and called for Bob or Tom. Thereupon Bill
spurted after Harry; while Jack and Charley spurted
after Bill. It was no good. Harry, an aged wood-
chopper, won with a lot in hand.
The riding of Body and Payne deserves praise.
Both made a wretched error of judgment in the Victoria
Wheel Race. The pair could have nipped first and second
prize had they engineered each other. But their error,
bad as it was, did not reach the badness of the errors of
Jim and Bob and Bill. Body and Payne rode a magnifi-
cent finish in the International Scratch Race, the race of
the day ; Payne won by a few inches. Altogether, the
League is in a worse way since its secretary, Percy, gave
place to Freddy.
* * * *
The League of Vic. Wheelmen made a painful
display of grovelling injustice re an enquiry into the
Williamstown club case, a month ago. The club held an
unregistered meeting, whereat five leaguists raced in de-
fiance of a warning from the Council. Four of the cul-
prits were accordingly disqualified for three months—a
bogus sentence considering the time o’ year—whilst the
fifth, after “admitting; that he had ridden with a full
knowledge of the rule, and the warning of the League
executive” escaped censure. The favored one was Geo.
Turner, son of the Vic. Premier. The League couldn’t
bring itself to disqualify a rider whose papa had gone
’Ome to play a representative part in the blessed jubilee.
* * * *
Constable McQuaker, who helped to look after
Butler during the trial, is about the biggest man in the
N.S.W. force, and as good-tempered as he is strong ; he
was considered no end of a wrestler in the Old Country.
The first capture McQuaker made after joining the
Sydney police was a typical five-foot Bst. larrikin. Mac.
was leading him along by the collar, when the little ’un
wrenched himself free, and catching the big man by the
legs, flung him clean. The giant was so flabbergasted
when he rose that he stood awhile speechless, looking at
the midget, who did not attempt to b( It. “ Well, I didn’t
think there was a man in Australia could put me fair on
my back, and that did it. I’m sorry, my boy, I have to
take you along. I’d really like to let you go.”' And when
before the courts he told the story, and asked the bench
to let the prisoner down easy.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Gun Club's quarterly handicaps
are out, and Mr. Herbert Garratt is placed at the top of
the lists on 32 yards with Mr. D. Mclntosh, who is just
now carrying all before him in Europe. Mr. Garratt,
whose health has not been the best of late, intends
going to England later in the year, and as he is sure to
take his gun with him, he will probably show the
Britishers that the doughty Donald is not Australia’s only
star shot.
* * * *
In England, professional running is looking up.
The reasons are that last year several of the most pro-
minent “amateurs” were disqualified and have now
joined the other branch. Perhaps the disqualification of
a few Australian amateurs, who, if rumor be true, would
be none too harshly treated, might revive the departed
glory of Botany and Carrington.
* * * *
A tip for peds with vitality enough left to raise
a trot. In Eng. the pros, instead of running for backers
—usually bookmakers and promoters get up small
handicap sweepstakes and divide the gate-money as per
arrangement. The gains are small but sure, and the
elimination of the gaffer element ensures public con
fidence.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —The disparity in weight be-
tween the English and Australian anniversary eights,
which your correspondent infers is an example of Austra-
lian decadence, is probably more an example of British
pig-headedness which the Australian Universities are just
beginning to shake off. If there is any proverb which the
athletic Britisher sticks to it is that a good big man is
better than a good little man, and in his dreary reitera-
tion of it he falls into the error of thinking that a bad
big man is better than a good little man It only needs a
glance at any athletic sport going—cricket, football, row-
ing, cycling, lacrosse, running or gymnastics—to prove
that the list, man is, in 99 cases out of 100, better than
the 12st. man In boxing, the authorities and experts
have acknowledged this within 41b. by fixing list. 41b. as
the middle-weight limit, and, by so doing, declaring that
if a man weighs list. 4lb. he is fit to fight anything that
can don a glove. The supremacy of Fitzsimmons and
Corbett, comparatively light men among the heavy-
weights, is enough to prove this. But calmly ignoring
men’s ability in the boats, the Universities of Australia
have, for years past, been lumping eight 13-stoners
into a boat, under the blissful belief that they were pick-
ing their eight best men. And all the remaining oars-
men in the different provinces have been laughing in their
sleeveless arms and sending out their nine-stone maiden
eight men to show the Universities what a little speed
was like. In England, apparently, the same course is
pursued, for, year after year, the weights of the Oxford
and Cambridge crews are such as would equal four ordi-
nary Australian senior eights, yet, in rowing circles at
’Ome, the ’Varsity oarsmen are reckoned a very second-
rate crowd —albeit they have here and there produced
some top-notehers. Here, the University rowing clubs
are “mug” clubs pure and simple, and their starts for
regatta races merely serve to keep down the exes by the
contribution in entrance-fees. The last year’s interpro-
vincial University race, however, appears to show that
they have tired of the old English beef-worship, and have
determined to follow the other clubs in picking smart,
young, agile. 11-stoners in place of the sluggish jumbos
that have hitherto acted as ballast. Probably the two
best eights Australia ever produced were the Yarra Yarra
Champions, with only one man touching the 12st., and
the Wendouree “snipes,” in which every man was list,
or under.— McG.
* * * »
The old belief that a racing cyclist is an old
man at 25 has been shattered by the experience of the
past racing season. Bilmartin, whose age is best repre-
sented by X, was looked on as a veritable phenomenon
until the arrival of Lesna, who breaks records with a
third of a century behind him, and who never crossed a
machine until he was 28. A glance at the cracks of
Europe and America shows men of all ages between 17
and 35 performing equally well.
• • * •
At Lancaster Park (M.L.) recently, a new form
of bicycle-racing was introduced, the wheels being more
or less oblong instead of circular, thus producing an effect
mightily like racing on buckjumpers of the most virulent
type over ploughed fields sown with brickbats.
* * » •
Cyclist C. O- Tebbutt has been talking to a
pressman, and amongst other items stated that he was
not an Australian, and was unashamed of the fact. Teb-
butt is the pattern racing-cyclist of this land. He is a
Rechabite, non-smoker, non-bettor, and a Sunday-school
teacher. He comes from England. No Australian ever
possessed so many of the cardinal virtues at once.
* * * •
A new bike-ppdalling system, invented by an
Ashburton (M.L.) man, is said to have been tested satis-
factorily. The process is something after the style of
operating a sewing machine. It is not so tiring, and
enables one to travel a longer distance.
♦ * * *
At the N.S.W. League Carnival, the Victoria
Wheel-race and the ten-miles International Scratch-race
were won on Dunlop tyres.*
* * * *
At Perth four finals in one day were won on
Beeston-Humbers, and Payne last Saturday, at the
N.S.W. Wheelmen’s meet, won the 10-mile International
Scratch-race on a Beeston-Humber.*


Gov. Ranfurley has also been dubbed
K.C.M.G. Originally, that title was intended to
crown a life of colonial service. Of late years,
however, it has been conferred on men who had
never performed any signal service in the empire.
Gerard Smith and Lamington received the title
almost simultaneously with their appointment to
Australian posts, the assumption probably being
that such men must distinguish themselves, and
that to pay in advance was a mere matter of form.
Roberts’ Hotel, George and Market Strs.,
Sydney, always in the front rank, has come a
large step more for’ard with the recent fine altera-
tions. The reception and ladies’ and gents’ coffee
rooms are a big draw in themselves. Likely
visitors to Sydney should take careful note and
unlikely visitors careful note also.*
r
, Daddy, Take the Baby!
Hatte’s pair
r | IS NOW ON. |
' Have you heard of HATTE ? NO ! Well,
’ he is not a Pill Man, a Quack Doctor, nor a
’ Chinaman ; he is simply
Poor Old Hatte who Rides the Donkey,
AND GIVES 30s. WORTH FOR
EVERY £1 YOU SPEND.
WORTH of DRAPERY, MILLINERY
CLOTHING, MERCERY,
BOOTS, CROCKERY, FURNISHINGS.
All Fairings. All Fairings.
PLEASE WRITE FOR FAIR j ~
BOOK FREE.
C. G. HATTE,
KTBWTOW3XT
(SYDNEY).
The Hotel Australia, Sydney, does not
trade upon its visitors with “ extras.” The morn-
ing cup of tea or coffee is not an “ extra ”; the
afternoon cake and tea are not an “extra”; the
supper which is on hand till midnight is not an
“extra.” It is a great comfort for a visitor to
know that the wing of a fowl can be picked at
11 p.m. without incurring the vexatious “extra”
charge. The rate, 12s. 6d. per day upwards, is
inclusive of all meals and attendance. A hungry
man can, practically, have six meals a day at the
Australia while paying only for three.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi>
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CrpbrocatioQ.
Pubications.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
S6l & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale So Retail Booksellers So Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Cclebritie
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OEDFIELD, Principal.
Miss E. Tweedie,
17 HANOVER STREET,
Hanover Square, LONDON.
Tbe Up-to-date Frocki&t.
TT IS WORTHY of note that the above Machines —
x wheels with a 17-year-old European reputation, and
whose quality is so well recognised that “ RAMBLER
Grade” has now usurped the hackneyed phrase “High
Grade ” as a sign of Excellence—have been REDUCED,
under instructions from the Manufacturers, from £25 to
£2l. CASH or TERMS.
The Greville,
ABSOLUTELY the
CHEAPEST MA-
CHINE in the colony at its Price, can be purchased for
£ll. Guaranteed for 12 months. Catalogues and full
particulars,
GREVILLE TURNER Ltd.,
CITY CYCLE EXCHANGE, 37 Market-st., Sydney.
“ riHILDBIRTH WITHOUT PAIN:” a Code of
Directions for escaping from the Primal Curse : to
which is added Golden Information for Females. This is
a most valuable book, and no lady should be without it.
In secure cover, post free 2s. 6d. Only of
Madame HOMER, Box 992, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, &c.
From Town and Country Journal, March 27, 1897
“ We have received from Madame Homer a book entitled
‘ Childbirth Without Pain.’ The principal subject is
treated in a sensible, popular, and straightforward man-
ner ; while useful hints are also given on matters relating
to health and hygienic conditions.”
_ Sunday Times, April 18, 1897 : —“ The bulk of the direc-
tions given seem perfectly in accordance with common
sense, and their adoption can scarcely be otherwise than
beneficial. There is nothing whatever of an objectionable
or prurient nature in the book, and much valuable infor-
mation may be obtained by its perusal.”
Herald of Health, edited by Mr. M. L. Holbrook,
M.D. : —“ The book sets forth briefly and clearly the nature
and importance of child-bearing, the slightness of its real
dangers, and the best methods of alleviating its discom-
forts and sufferings.”
From Mrs. C. Stokes, Diplomaed Midwife Every
line in the book ‘ Childbirth Without Pain ' is worth care-
ful reading. I have no hesitation in recommending it to
the notice of the sex generally.”
Only of MADAME HOMER, Box 992 G.P.0., Sydney.
Experieotia Poc?t
holds good in everything. Experience of several so-called high grade wheels
taught a certain brainy Coventry manufacturer that something was want-
ing to render them perfect. The result of his experience and experiments is
THE ROYAL PROGRESS
Bicycle, of which the highest experts in England speak in the most flatter-
ing terms. We have also numerous other makes, including the OWEN,
the OUTING, and the INVINCIBLE. Send for Ulus. Catalogue!
Tlje Epglisb ai)d Anjericap AgeocV Co.,
(NEW JUBILEE SHOW-ROOMS). 416 GEO:RGE STREET, CITY.
- - THE NEW - -
Herald Bicycle
For LADIES and GENTS.
J7MBODIES elegance, grace and simplicity. They are
_ fitted with a chain which can be repaired by the
rider in a few minutes without the use of tools. The
Hubs and Bearings are on a new principle, which exclude
dirt, run easier, and the balls remain in their places when
the bearing is removed. The Hickory Adjustable Handle-
bars are a treat to use, absorbing ail vibration which,
combined with the HYGIENIC SADDLE, make rough
roads a pleasure. Weight, 271bs. Dunlop Tires. Price, £2O.
Tbc lotcrcbaQgcable
With Genuine NEW RAPID Wheels,
Westwood Rims, R.T.Hall Rubber Brake, Perry’s Humber
Chain, Gear Case, Dunlop Tire, equals any machine pro-
curable,
Price £24.
These are my selection on merit from a hundred English
and American makers.
Write for Catalogues. Agents wanted Everywhere.
For Terms and Discounts, apply to
FRANK GRIM LEY,
263 & 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Tlie
'lii 3
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Importer of Sundries. Repairs a Speciality.
“DOWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
msm
'v/
DC
\A
*
?CiSTtRt
[fi'iDE Wif9s
c,, ftf S
1897
AN CXCCPTIONAL OPPORTUNITY
of purchasing a Eirst-Class English Bicycle at very much less
than English Prices is now at hand, for, as we have decided
to give up the Agency for “Raleigh” Cycles, we are
offering our entire and varied stock of LATEST PATTERNS
at the following
REDUCED PRICES.
All fitted with Dunlop Tyres, Martin Silent Toolbag, Pump and
Spanner. All Ladies’ Machines have Gear Cases.
Send for fully Illustrated Catalogue [Raleigh Co.’s] Post Free
The flustral Cycle Agency [td.,
n im
Pcpot, 393 Gcorgc-st., Sydoey
Branches At:
Melbourne—229 Elizabefch-st.
Adelaide—33 Rundle-st.
Perth— Hay-st.
Brisbane— Adelaide-st.
Charters Towers— Gill-st.
Wakrnambool—Kepler-st.
Goulburn
Christchurch—Lichfield-at.
Dunedin—l 23 George-st.
HoBARr, Slc.


Special Advertisements.
Unable to Work !
NO APPETITE !
COULD NOT SLEEP!
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
COMPLETELY CURED HIM.
T. J. Clune, of Walker ville, Ade-
laide, South Australia, writes:
“Six years ago, I had an attack of
Indigestion and Liver Complaint
that lasted for weeks ; I was anal ire
to do any hard work, had no appe-
tite, food distressed me, and I suf-
fered much from headache. My
skin was sallow and sleep did not
refresh me. I tried several reme-
dies and consulted a doctor, with-
out obtaining any relief; finally,
one of my customers recommended
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It helped me
from the first,—in fact, after taking
six bottles I was completely cured,
and could eat anything and sleep
like a child.”
AVETR’Q
SARSAPARILLA
Hnlrl MpHslc fho Phial Cwnamm
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
AYER’S PILLS, Mild but Effective.
y A NOVELTY! ,
ALL KINDS OP
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant case
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
' Obtainable of Chemists, C?
Ti Stores, Perfumers, Xy
or direct from '
Streep
Til© Celebrated
LOUIS” Velveteen,
A Fabric of surpassing
Beauty and Excellence;
Possessing Sterling
WEARING QUALITIES
and withal
MODERATE in PRICE.
♦
filch & Rare Colours
For Present Wear
IN EVERY TINT.
♦
Lustrous
BLUE BLACK
Permanent
JET BLACK.
HA
m
<!t>°
Genuine “LOUIS” YELYETEEN
Is specially recommended for Promenade Costumes,
Blouses, Tea Gowns, Dinner Dresses, Children’s
Dresses and Cloaks, Millinery, Trimming, and
Art Decorative Purposes.
NOTE WELL.—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS”
Velveteen bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S, and in no
other way), and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Hobart City Council has a corporation
snuff-box which is passed round at all aldermanio
meetings. If ever an alderman shows signs of
protesting against the old-established order of
doing nothing, the Mayor passes the snuff-box
with a courtly grace, and the “ ayes ” have it be-
fore the objector has done sneezing"
From Richmond River (N.S.W.) Ex-
press
A cattle-slut had pups recently, and suckled them for a
time. Meanwhile, a sow on the same farm had a litter,
and, as is usual, there was a runt amonast them. By
some means this runt became acquainted with the slut,
and the owner was astonished to observe the little
grunter placidly sucking the slut, which appeared
thoroughly satisfied. Being interested, he watched the
progress of affairs and observed that the slut would not
permit her natural offspring to partake of what by the
law of nature belonged to them ; but encouraged and
permitted the young pig to imbibe, and the latter has
developed and made rapid growth since obtaining the
whole of the slut’s milk to his own cheek. The owner
says that the only way he can account for it is that the
mother received very rough usage from her progeny,
whereas little jjjggie was gentle in manipulating.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Two young people on the M.L. West Coast
lately struck a patch of ill-luck from which they
will never wholly recover. They applied to a
parson to get married, and the reverend sent them
to the registrar for the necessary license. The
license was obtained, but in their harmless ignor-
ance they imagined that it constituted a marriage
and lived happily together for a month on the
strength of it. 'They might have continued doing
so for years, only the pastor made inquiries after
the pair that never came back, and explained the
awful situation to them, and, as soon as the young
wife could be recovered from her faint they were
rushed off to the church as unobtrusively as pos-
sible, and matters were put right.
X.Z, : “Coincidence. Collins, the first
who tried to make Sorrento, Vie., a local habita-
tion worth inhabiting, abandoned it 24th Jan.,
1804. On the same day this year I read on the
Ozone a notice that Coppin, the second to try to
make the glaring white limestone hog-back habit-
able, has given up the attempt, and is selling off
all his Sorrento properties. Collins, by the way,
gave out that he abandoned the attempt at settle-
ment for lack of water, yet springs are common as
sand-flies, shallow wells all over the place fill with
fresh water, and every southerly or westerly squall
brings rain. Wherefore the lack-of-water business
is too thin. But when making the Nepean-road—
the military road from Melbourne to the Heads
on the east (Sorrento) side of the bay—the road-
makers dug up numerous human skeletons buried,
lyrnn on their backs. At first these were duly
inquested, but the numerousness of inquests got
so ungovernable at the site of the Collins settle-
ment that, to save delays, orders were given to
laborers that when they found bones they had
better re-bury them, as too much bone-finding
would result in ‘the sack.’ The blacks in that
district in those da,ys never buried their dead on
their backs. Putting Collins’s desertion alongside
those skeletons, the most probable conclusion is
that Collins tried the ‘ dispersal ’ system and got
‘dispersed’ himself.”
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
* Sauce.
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
Liine-Frdlt
Jmce, it is
found, forms
ra most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, and we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery , writes
j’ ar r/icx as ioij, m a treatise on Scurvy :—“l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest tne Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins. 1
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WADES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
A Co.. Elliott Bros . Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co.
NEWCASTLE — D. Cohen & Co.
Some of the S.Q. sugar districts are ter-
rible examples of the effect of the denudation of
trees on climate. Regions which formerly boasted
mild winters are now ravaged by frost, and the
hapless planter finds that the scrubs he so ruth-
lessly destroyed were really the grand modifiers
of the intense cold of June and July. A few belts
of scrub left standing here and there would have
made all the difference.
Reply of Royal Humane Society's official
to parson, who wrote complaining that society’s
medal had been conferred upon a man of criminal
antecedents:—
Sir,—The person you mention has no antecedents. He
wasn’t born, as far as this society is concerned, until he
performed the act for which he has received its decow
tion.
Lettera of gold 1
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from' Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused .by Mosquito Bites’.
Invigorating in Hdt Climates.
Restores 1 the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
'For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS. t LIMITED, SYDNEY.
■
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE
BELL
RAZOR
s[ B inch and 3/ 4 inch Blades,
Bound and Square Point,
Black Handles, 7/6; Ivory Handles, 10/6
This Razor is True to Name-RINGS like a Bell,
and is as SOUND as a Bell.
Agents: HOME RULE TOBACCO CO., 637-639 George-st., Sydney
6,
BOOK OF JVATURE
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
Ky Dk. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRI< E, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
The Notorious Moll Flanlers, by I) rot complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1,6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, is- bv
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola's
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de KooF, post free, Is 3d.
KOMANCK OF A FAIR GIRL’S BATHROOM, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabelais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Pioture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
A Fatal Sin, by Balzao, post free, Is 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Brad laugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle db Maupin, Romanoe of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
New Realistic Novels:—Tub Serpent Tempted Her!
Decoyed ; His Last Passion ; Is 3d each, post free.
Short Stories of. Love and Frolic, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, l>y Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries of tiik Court of Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, post free 2s.
Famous Romances of Voltaire, illus., post free 2s.
Paris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Lb Chateau de la Fav rite (in French), post Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and publio amusement, Is : post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is.
Mahomet's Fortune Tellino Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
Nat Gould’s Sporting: Novels, 2s 6d each, post.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
(Under Royal Patronage.)*
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst pf the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road,
London, S.W
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f °r
Infants
9
fßenger’s Pood Is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
-rug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aced.


HEBR E^-A.SSnVETJSSEuSr
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tb« ALFALIN€ HCRBAL R€M€PI€S (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
_ 160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
ful] y. A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured,
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
® lr * 1 n k it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. a. LUCKHAM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Kxplorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
_ _ ' March 7th, 1895.
To Herr Rassmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to inform youthat
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. bUTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. *- eker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Button writes later:-“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It attords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been oaused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent arid Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir,-I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castle-
/eagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL and see numerous testimonials.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning- Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Uai-mussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint-, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady's Testimonial.
Tfc gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMiTH.
tort Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales;
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September ‘23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. lam
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Aroadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.-You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12, 1892.
To llhrr R. ssmussest.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using youi
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. 1
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear oomplaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, 1 have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Diver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
I lorrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Svvanston-street, Melbourne.
Hf.rr Rassmussen. 9/8/97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of (he liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
nave returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, ar.d which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Partes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’ standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Your?
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Deal - Sir, —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S. W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of genera
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters nr interview any person who doubls this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Your*
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEIV’S ALFA LINE REMEDIES.
AWARDED
TWO GOLD
El j.
I »
V V
ALFA LINE PILLSf
CURED 100,000 FOR THE BLOOD 8* NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Fills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. Cd. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood ure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6di
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for (. oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches; Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills-For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns,- Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills-An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveno-s, Indigestion, Fla lu lei icy.
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneysj
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
p gulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders A hannless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most peifect
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed viVor
Boxes, 6s. " '
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused 1m oer
packet. ■ ' ' F
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -Thij
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same tiire
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt-This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current arj is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is w ithdut’i doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to ii.vignate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and W. akness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
.. 2 „ 425.
» 3 ~ 03s.
Send full particulars of measurements over the bins
when ordering one. P
SEND FOR FREE BOOK
UFRIi RA'SMUSS h ’N will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complain Is.
WARNING.
HERR is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERR
hEM DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be eriven FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offlc*s, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS hASSMU*SEV,
whether you send to his Hi ad Office. or r ranches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
fntcrcolon ial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Adelaide—ls 4 Bundle Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.— Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre
Coolgardie—Next Coolgardie Hotel, 'Bailey-street.'
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
fPHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of BridgeutorJe.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
flow difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain.
REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 EZixig-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
£66 IN GASH
And other Valuable Presents
GIVEN A WAV
to those who solve this Rebus.
W_
Tile
WAY
PL. A.Y
The above Rebus is an OLD SAYlA'G.f 'miliar toevery-
one. WHAT IS IT f We will give to the first person from
whom we receive the correct answer Twenty Buys after
the date of this Paper, £lO in cash. To the second,
£5 ; to the third, £3 : to the next five persons, a Hand-
some Silk Dress Pattern of IS yards, in Black,
ill tie, Green, Brown or Gray. To the next 10 a
Solid Gold Genuine Diamond Bins, and to the next
IS sending in the correct answer £1 each To the person
from whom we receive the last correct answer we
■will give £lo iu cash; to the next to the lasi, £5: to
the next, £3; the next 5, a Handsome Silk Dress
Pattern it 16 yards, in one of the ei ove co oors. To the
next Ml, a Solid Gold Genuine Diamond King ; and
to the next 15 (should there be so many sending in correct
answers), £1 to each. We piepay carriage on pre ents. and
send in accordance with this offer on the same day the
answer is received. All answers must be sent by
regular post, and received by us not later than Twenty
Days after the date of this paper. With your
answers send us 15 stamps for a box of DK. liOßli i
1, ITT 1,10 I EG lOTA 111. 10 PllhS.
TAKEAPILL,
Hobb s are the best on Earth-
DK. HUBH'S I.ittle
VeKl'lable l'ilisact gen-
tly yet promptly on the I iver,
Kidneys, and bowels, dispel-
ling Headaci e, Fevers, end
Cods, cleansing the system
thoroughly and curing habit-
ual constipation. They are
supar coated, do not
gripe, very small, easy to
take, one pill ado e end are
purely vege able. Perfect di-
gestion follows their use.
They absolutely cure torpid
liver, and are recommended
by leading physicians
I KEMEMBEft yon pay
| nothing for the p: eoente, as
they sre ahsniutel}'
GIVE.t, AWAY to intro-
duce and advertise IMt.
KIOBB’S Celebrated
Bills. As to ou." reliability,
you can write to any bank or
busirn ss bouse. We guaian-
tee perfect satisfaction or
money refunded. Pills sent
to any address by post.
AGENTS WANTED Imme-
diately after the prizes are
awarded, a printed list, giving
the names and addresses of
the successful contestants,
will be posted to each person
who has sent in an answer.
Address. ERIE MED. CO., Or. of exhibition
and Collins Streets, Melbourne.
iQdiaQ Art Malefactors.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
ASSAM SILKS, 50in. to 53in. wide, 5f to 6Jyds.
long. Price, Rs. 16/8 to Rs. 20/- piece.
BERHAMPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 7yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
BHAQULPORE SILKS, 36in. wide, 10 to 12yds.
in piece. Price, Rs. 6/8 to Rs. 15/- piece.
TUSSUR SILKS, 36in. wide, 8 to 12yds. in
piece. Price, Rs. 10/- to Rs. 17/- piece.
CAWNPORE TWILL SHIRTINGS, 33in. wide.
Price—White, 4 annas and 6 pies yard.
~ Colored Stripes, 5 annas „
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 18in., length 9yds.
Price, Rs. 7/- to Rs. 12/- piece.
CASHMERE PUTTOO, width 36in., length syds.
Price, Rs. 11/- to Rs. 16/- piece.
The Above are Wholesale Mates; Retail Prices are 5 per
cent, in excess.
Benares and Moradabad Brass Work, Sandal-
Wood Boxes, &c., &c., Bombay and Cutch Works,
and all kinds of India Art Manufactures supplied.
Terms : Cash to accompany Order at the Ex-
change current, or reference for payment to any
Bank or respectable Business House or Agency in
India. G. G WHITE & CO.,
45 Radha Bazaar-st., CALCUTTA.
T be Leading Pipe.
(GBP)
Wholesale Dep6t:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
w
6rin>€ &Sn?itb,
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.).
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 6/6
to 75/-
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
fnHE LAST OF SIX (colleobed stories by Ernest
X Faveno), Is. Bd.
JjJ OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
Amusements.
T.YCEUM THEATRE, PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
TO LET
For Particulars, apply
HENRY BROE,
Box 489 G.P.O. SYDNEY.
fJIEMPE ANNUAL CHARITY BALL.
Town Hall, Sydney, Wednesday, 7th July.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
BALL TICKETS, 10/6. : GALLERY TICKETS, 2/-.
rpHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS 1 op LAST NIGHTS!
BLAND HOLT’S
FINE MILITARY SPECTACLE,
“A LIF€ OF PL€ASUR€.”
Next and Final Production of the Season,
“ The Cotton IKIi ng.”
PRICES 3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s and Jones’s.
■ORINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
SATURDAY, July 3, Wilson Barrett’s • Remarkable
Play,
“ Tbc SigQ of tl>€ Cross.”
Which created a theatrical revolution in England, and
has just concluded a sensationally successful run of Seven
Weeks at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
Missing Friends.
WILL WALTER HODGES, who left the
ship “ Eardshall ” in 1891, communicate
with Messrs. Rand & Drew, Solicitors,
109 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Amusements.
TTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bub. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
THURSDAY, July 1, FRIDAY, July 2, Alexander
Dumas’ Brilliant Comedy,
“FRANCILLON.”
SATURDAY, Brd JULY-” A NIGHT OUT.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. B®” PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
237 gALON CINEMATOGRAPHE, 237
237 PITT STREET, 237
(Nearly opposite Lyceum Theatre, Sydney).
180,000. Visitors in Nine Months at this 180,000
THE MOST POPULAR RENDEZVOUS IN SYDNEY.
TO-DAY, from 11 a.m.
AN ACTUAL BATTLE in the Cuban Rebellion.
The Greek Advance in the Greco-Turkish War, &c., &c.
. J. MACMAHON, Director.
■jIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
MA66IE MOORE,
In the NEW and ORIGINAL Comedy Drama, entitled
“ JOHAN NA.”
Supported by a SPECIALLY-SELECTED Company.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
OPERA HOUSE (King and York-sts.), SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING ! CONTINUED SUCCESS OP
Farley’s EogliSb Opsra Co.
High-class Opera with the best available artists at Three
Shillings, Two Shillings, and One Shilling.
EVERY EVENING, until Further Notice, Verdi’s great
tragic opera,
“II- TROVATORE.”
Plan at Paling’s. Day tickets at Josephson’s York Hotel,
next Theatre. J A. CRAIN.
TI VO L I 'l' HEAT R E, SYDN E Y.
Sole Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success op
Mr. Harry Jtickards’s New Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Company.
CO High-Class ‘Performers CO
Only the Very Best Artists Engaged. Everything
Up-to-Date.
Admission—Private Boxes, LI Is ; Dress Circle, 2s 6d ;
Orchestra Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is; and Family Circle,
SIXPENCE. Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
FJIHE OPERA HOUSeT MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager Mr. Harry Rickards.
Acting Manager .. Mr. Fred. Aydon.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of
MR. HARRY RICHARDS’S
NEW TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY CO-
Prices—2s, Is, and SIXPENCE. Plan at Allan’s.
General Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
ALBS OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG
__ . __ „ . ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(bole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
BOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality :
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from JJ.3 3s. each.
MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 little Collins Street ,
MELBOURNE.
Fitzgerald Brothers Combined
Circus and Menagerie.
THEIE lIsTTEUTIOUS.
I3ST WIUTEE QUABTEES.
(From the Albany Advertiser, W.A., Saturday, May 29, 1897).
The season 1896-97 of this well known circus
ceased at Albany, on May 25, after an 18 months
tour of Australasia. It will be remembered that
these enterprising Australian showmen set sail
from Auckland, New Zealand, in June, 1895, and
travelled round the world in search of novelties
for their Australian patrons. The success of their
new London Company which they brought back
with them was tremendous. Everywhere they
were greeted with highest encomiums from both
press and public, and among the artists engaged
were—Mdlle. Antonio from the London Aquarium,
Professor Peart, “ The champion high diver of the
world,” the marvellous brothers “Eclair” from
Paris, La Belle Rose, the acrobatic Altons and
Mahomet “The Talking Horse.” These attrac-
tions in the Australian Colonies proved the judg-
ment of the energetic brothers, being met on all
sides with unbounded enthusiasm. Their name is
a household word throughout the Australias, and
well do such managers deserve it. The last few
months have been spent in a tour of Western Aus-
tralia ranging from Fremantle to Coolgardie, Kal-
goorlie, Bulong, Kanowna, Broad Arrow, thence
to the Murchison, Cue, Mount Magnet, the inter-
vening towns being visited with undoubted success.
In fact, the whole trip has been a triumphant
success. Money flowed into their coffers and the
public generally expressed themselves as highly
delighted with the combination brought to their
doors. To come right down to the present, Mr.
Dan Fitzgerald, the senior partner of the firm,
left Albany on Saturday, April 17, by the R.M.S.
Ophir on another trip round the world in order to
secure the best artistes and artists obtainable for
an extended tour of Australasia. Any novelties
or sensations, which money can purchase, are to
be arranged for. Mr. Fitzgerald landed at Naples
on May 14, thence he proceeded to Vienna and
Berlin where he is at present located and where
he is advertising throughout Germany and the
Continent for talent. His intentions are to engage
nothing but the very best talent available for the
forthcoming Australasian tour. From Bei-lin he
will next proceed to Copenhagen, Paris, Belgium,
Spain and locating for a time in Madrid, later on
will travel through Barcelona, Valencia, &c. In
fact, wherever a performance of any description is
going on, whether circus, theatre,' continental or
outdoor exhibitions, Mr. Dan will be on the spot
looking for the latest attractions. From there he
will proceed to England, travelling the provinces,
Scotland and Ireland, then back to London, where
his headquarters will be the Era office. From
this well-known centre he will send to Australia
the pick of English and continental artists ; and
should he succeed in perfecting his plans, he may
also send performing elephants and other animals,
which he thinks he may be able to secure from
Haughenbeck, of Hamburg. The whole of the
combination will first arrive in Albany, where a
general reorganisation will take place and the
initial bow to the people of Australia will be made
here. Mr, Tom Fitzgerald is located here in
winter quarters. A farm has been purchased H
miles from Albany, and during the residence here
of Mr. Fitzgerald and his trainers fresh horses will
be broken in, new waggons and animals’ cages
built, saddlers, harness-makers, wheelwrights,
blacksmiths, painters, decorators and upholsterers
will have their time fully occupied in making the
necessary preparation for the opening of this
entirely new combination. In the initial opening
of a huge concern of this description—or we should
say re-opening—everything will and must be new,
bright and attractive. Mr. Tom Fitzgerald will
personally superintend the whole of the arrange-
ments, so tlmt we may expect to see the show of
1897-98 a bigger success, and of even greater
magnitude, than that recently provided by these
energetic caterers. It is proposed to inaugurate
the season on or about September 1,1897, and with
such an amount of energy and vigor displayed
and capital used freely, the combination should
prove a tremendous draw for the amusement lov-
ing public of Australasia. The general intention
is to play throughout the colonies, New Zealand,
and Tasmania, the Fitzgerald Bros, using their
own special trains and steamers to accomplish the
proposed tour, so that when it is announced that
the Fitzgerald Bros, show is coming it may lie
expected with confidence that it is a show which
has never been equalled, bristling with novelties
from every country. No abler man than Mr. Dan
Fitzgerald could possibly be selected to engage
talent from the old world, as his knowledge of the
tastes of the colonial public for which he has so
long and successfully catered should be a sufficient
guarantee of ability in that direction. The band
next season will be under the able conductorship
of Herr Von Der Mehden, the popular cornet
soloist, and will be in every respect better than
ever. The agents department will again be under
the supervision of Mr. John Morris, undoubtedly
the “ Prince of agents,” with a well qualified and
additional staff. The printing will also be a
feature of next season, all new pictorial and suit-
able matter being specially imported from England
and America. Mr. Frank N. Jones will retain
his old position as press representative, and we
feel sure that all the old friends of the press and
a goodly number of the public will do all in their
power to further the interests of these leading
Australian showmen.
A Sydney Washerwoman’s .trials,
HARDSHIPS MET WITH IN COLD
WEATHER.
HANDS IN HOT WATER, THEN IN
COLD.
GETTING HEATED, THEN GOING OUT
OF DOORS IN ALL SORTS OF
WEATHER.
COUGHS, COLDS, AND RHEUMATISM
THE INEVITABLE RESULTS.
In this inclement weather, when so many are
suffering from colds, coughs and rheumatism, the
story of Mrs. Mary Brown, of 71 Simmons-stivct,
Enmore, will be read with devouring interest.
When a newspaper reporter called at this lady's
residence, he found her busily engaged at the w ash-
tub, what she called doing a “day’s washing.”
It was indeed difficult to believe by the amount of
“ elbow grease ” she laid into her labours that this
interesting personage had lately been informed by
medical men that hers was a case which would
probably develop into chronic rheumatism.
“ I have called, Mrs. Brown,” said the reporter,
“to ascertain the truth of a rumor that has
reached me of your having recently suffered from a
severe attack of rheumatism.
“ It is quite true, but I am now happy to relate
that I feel as well as I ever did. I have been
suffering on and off from rheumatism for the last
five years, and the slightest change in the weather
used to give me most awful twinges. It chiefly
affected my arms, and I can assure you, sir, that
it took me all my time to do my hair. As to lift-
ing this tub, that was a matter of sheer impos-
sibility. If it had not been for some of my friends
I could never have gotten through my household
duties; This complaint appeared to affect my
entire system, and, as to the money I have spent
in doctors’ advice and so-called remedies, why, it
makes me positively disgusted to think of. I
began to think that if my sufferings continued, life
was not worth living. I remember on day, as I
was sitting by the fire and endeavoring to employ
my mind by reading the Evening News, that an
advertisement caught my eye headed ‘ Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People ’ cures rheu-
matism, sciatica, &c. Now, having wasted so
much money already, I was at first loath to try any
more advertised medecines, but I thought in for a
penny in for a pound, so I invested in three boxes
of this specific. ”
“I hope you were careful to ask for Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills ? ”
“ I took particular notice to do that, for I had
read of so many worthless imitations that I was
careful to ask for and obtain the genuine article. ”
“We think it highly probable, Mrs. Brown,
that before long some of the compounders of these
worthless imitations will be spending time in
seclusion, with the accompanying eccentricities of
diet, official garb, and escort. ”
“And, indeed, it would only serve them right.
Brown (my husband) laughed at me when I told
him I was going in for a course of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and said, ‘ Oh, you are going to chuck
away some more money, are you ? ’ ”
“ I said ‘Yes, I am,’ and right glad am I that I
ran the risk of * chucking away some more money,’
for I am happy to tell you that they have done
me all the good in the world. Talk about the new
woman, why I feel now a brand new woman, and
my husband only this morning said to me ‘ Well,
old girl, if you were “ off color ” a few weeks ago
fou certainly look the “ pink ” of perfection now.
suppose it is your Pink Pills that have done it. ’
And so it is. Not only have I lost my rheumatic
pains, but my appetite has returned, and I can
now enjoy my food. In fact, my appetite is so
good that Brown says I will eat him out of house
and home.”
“How many boxes have you taken, Mrs.
Brown ? ”
“ I have taken seven boxes in all, and I have so
much belief in them that I intend always to keep
a box by me, and I shall recommend them to all
my friends. You are quite at liberty to publish
this statement, as I believe in giving credit to
whom credit is due.”
The reporter then withdrew, and reflected as he
walked slowly away that here at least was another
case in which the many virtues of this marvellous
preparation had been exhaustively and conclu-
sively illustrated.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are not like other
medicines, and their effects are permanent. Noth-
ing else is so prompt in pulling up the system
when, from some temporary depression or other-
wise, tone is needed. They have cured more than
fifty-five hundred cases of diseases arising from
impoverished blood, such as anaemia, pale and
sallow complexion, muscular weakness, depression
of spirits, loss of appetite, palpitation of the heart,
shortness of breath, pains in the back, nervous
headache, loss of memory, early decay, all forms
of female weakness, hysteria, paralysis, locomotor
ataxy, rheumatism and sciatica, scrofula, rickets,
hip-joint diseases, chronic erysipelas, consumption
of the bowels and lungs.
The genuine pills are sold only in wooden boxes,
about two inches in length, in a white wrapper
with the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, printed in red. They are never
sold in bulk, or from glass jars, and any dealer
who offers substitutes in this form should be
avoided. In case of doubt it is better to send
direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company,
Queen’s Chambers, Queen’s Place, Sydney, enclos-
ing the price, 2s. 9d. a boz, or six boxes for 14s. 9d.
These pills are not a purgative, and they contain
nothing that could injure the most delicate. *
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
cmmim.
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its nse.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“BEETHAMV is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/- & 2/6 of all Chemists. H. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham. England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BEOS., Sydney.
WALES OF THIS CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Price Waning- Is. 3d.
Sent post free from Thk Bullktin office.


Stoelitahing Closing Out Cash
Sale of Winter Goods
—AT—
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
IS NOW ON.
Goods in every Department are substantially
reduced for this Closing Out Sale.
ORDERS should be sent EARLY, with a
careful description of requirements, naming
prices wished to be paid, and enclosing remittance
to cover amount. Any change over after execut-
ing orders will at once be refunded, and
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
may rely upon getting the benefit of all reductions,
and goods nearest in price to those mentioned.
Drapery Goods of the value of £2 and upwards
that can go by Parcels Post, with the excep-
tion of certain heavy or bulky low-priced
lines, are sent by us to any Parcels Post Office
in the colony POSTAGE FREE.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank
Drafts and Cheques payable to
Finney, Isles & Co.,
Brisbane.
I a/'
Jb.
VV
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it in
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being?
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills cure constipation.
Savid graham g go.
SELECTED DESIGNS in NEW SEASON’S
GOODS
6'Otlenxo’s
Winter Stiitiogs
JUST OPENED !
Importers op
Vickerman’s Celebrated
SERGES.
Ladies 9 Costumes a Speciality,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
CELLULAR CLOTHING.
DAYID BE All AM & CO.,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
*75 King St., Sydney.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER
SCOTCH
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
HANDSOME
Commemoration Box- of Butter. Scotch
With It will be presented a History of the Victorian
Bra, written especially for Children by
Miss Bessie JBatton,
Ready «June Ist.
t)rder •» aoaa of confectioner* as Only a United
comber be Issued J
St.'John’s Works, W.C. LONDON
'PALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
The steamer fare from Sydney to Brisbane
(Q.) is—l 4 days’ gaol.
A M.L. Congregational minister lately
prayed fervently for the souls of men, with this
in the prayer: “O, God, we beseech thee to spare
the souls of the aboriginals of these islands, I
mean the native Maori.”
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold every where. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
A little of the secret history of Queen Vic-
toria’s reign was revealed by Greville, that Saint
Simon of our century, and more can already be
gleaned. Prince Albert was virtually King of
England for 20 years. The last thing he did was
amending the Premier’s draft of a despatch to
America, at the utmost tension between the U.S.
and Britain. The grudge of the Queen and her
husband to Palmerston was eminently disastrous.
It plunged the nation in the Crimean war through
Palmerston’s removal from the Foreign Office.
This was because he did not consult Prince Albert
before recognising the coup d’6tat of Napoleon
111. However, after Albert’s death, Palmerston
became the Queen’s political idol. Disraeli had
succeeded him, as the particular object of aver-
sion, but managed to transfer the animus to Glad-
stone.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dear Bulletin, —A ray of light on the
crow. There are two crows—the white-eyed Aus-
tralian crow that distributes himself impartially
over this continent, and the brown-eyed crow
( corvus coronoides) of the Gulf of Carpentaria. The
brown-eyed crow, like brown-eyed women, has
many loveable qualities, and wears the soft, sym-
pathetic, far-away, sad-and-weary expression of
an amateur poet wrestling with the awful conun-
drum of a suitable rhyme for pumpkin. He is
largely frugivorous and a meat diet disorganises
his bingie. His voice is a baritone, and when re-
hearsing his own operatic music he arches himself
into a boomerang until his beak touches the tip of
his tail. I have not time at present to enumerate
the many virtues of the brown-eyed crow, but I
have said enough to save him from the curse which
all bush-dwelling Australia hurls at the head of
his white-eyed kinsman. My experience of crows
dates back to 1859. I have seen all types of crow-
character, and each type was worse than the
others. I have seen the white-eyed crow from
where he was gorging stranded fish on an island
of the Barrier Reef, to where he rose from a dead
rat in a polygonum thicket on the edge of a dry
waterhole in the lone west. His character is
blacker than his feathers, and the only virtue he
possesses is an imaginary one discovered by people
who know nothing about him. As an article of
diet we learn in Sturt’s journal that an old starved
myall came to the camp and stayed there until he
fattened on crows shot by the whites. Mark
Twain tells us that he has eaten boiled crow, but
never afterwards hankered after it. For table
purposes he would doubtless make a pleasant
change in the menu of an average boarding-house.
Many ticks have been found on crows, but were
all dead sick enough to wish for death. And yet
the crow was the Prometheus or “ fire bringer ” of
the blacks. He stole the fire from the seven gins
in the Pleiades. If a crow were 24 hours without
a chance to steal something he would commit
suicide. He places no value on anything
acquired honestly. In Japanese mythology a
crow with eight-feet wings was sent by the god
Michi Omi to guide the army of Jimmu Tennu,
the first Emperor of Japan. In Australia the
most widely-distributed aboriginal names for the
crow were wahga, wahgan, warr and wahwa. The
town of Wagga-Wagga retains the crow’s name
in the Kamilroi and Wiradjerie dialects.
An ancient race sacrificed crocodiles in the temple
of Typhon the Evil Genius. The Scythians sacri-
ficed asses in the temple of Mars. Why not erect
a temple to the white-eyed Evil Genius of Aus-
tralia and soak the altar in the gore of the asses
who have been known to remark, in speech or
print, that “there is a good deal to be said in
favor of the crow ? ” The last crow I shot rose
from the bottom of a gully where he was so busy
with a dead lamb that he didn’t see me until I
was right over him. Then he rose and “ whizzed ”
for about 20 yards, looking round with his white
eyes dilated with terror, and kicking the air with
his feet in the vain hope of increasing his pace.
The No. 3 caught him suddenly, and the recording
angel credited me with one more noble deed. —A.
Meston, Brisbane.
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
EVERY VARIETY OF
I IXIUI
m
m
MFG.C 0 ;
m
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.
Sole Agents for
BLAKE PUMPS,
Have a Large and Assorted
Stock of
Duplex and Single
Direct-Acting Steam Pumps
For Mining and all other Pumping Purposes.
—ALSO,—
MINING MACHINERY
AND
MINING SUPPLIES
Of Every Description.
•fiyjD
lAUweJia
Rk°mwd
l£g>»<AlA\EK
jNDIGE;TIofI
8
Ma
far,, Ok WP^ 1
c. 5^ A " ri J /A v
SP%A\HS \voONDC
CoUGMS (pLPS 2c”'
[Beware op
IMITATIONS'
WITH
Copyright book
"How to Disinfect
SENT FREE
The S amt as C- L 9
u. BethNA(. Green_J
lOi'iD O !\. ws#
HAIRDRESSERS AND WIGMAKEItS
To the Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &e.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d,; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG «Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 682 George Street, Sydney.
WONDERFUL CURES EFFECTED BY
ORANGE LILT.
The Great Specific for
Diseases of Women.
Call and see results at 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or send stamped addressed envelope for pamphlets.
Accommodation for Visitors at
kJJ “ Wyadra,” 115 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Mrs. LILLIS (late of Bundaberg).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNCr
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
10 YEARS!
With an increasing: demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that we
have the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
_ _ return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness audits oure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
the drum
IN POSITION^
Pcaffycss
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relived
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobiectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
I
Dr. WALLACE, the Eminent Specialist, Registered
in England and the Colonies as a
Physician and Surgeon,
Having a reputation second to none for curing
complaints of a nervous character, from what-
ever cause arising.
Old and obsolete methods discarded ; the
New American remedy proved absolutely
effective, known only to Dr. Wallace. Cures
cases pronounced hopeless. Thirty years’ ex-
perience in Europe, America, and Australia.
My BOOK has opened the eyes of thousands
of people to their true condition. A per-
fectly readable book. Send Six Penny Stamps
at once. Write your case freely and confi-
dentially. The charge of ONE POUND
ONLY is made by Dr. Wallace for a radical
Cure.
Are you nervously anxious about
your condition ? This can be eradicated, and
the future made bright. Don’t waste valuable
time.
If you suffer from any, or many, of the following
symptoms, don’t delay a moment. Write and receive
prompt reply: —Depression of spirits, headache,
hair coming out, dim sight, noises in head and
ears, weak memory, forgetting dates, persons’ names,
places, etc., loss of voice, taste, or smell, sunken
eyes, pimples on face, paleness of face and lips, lrok
old for years, stunted in growth, palpitation of heart,
pain in or under breastbone, shortness of breath, in-
digestion, with oppression after food, constipation
or irregular bowels, flatulency, gravel, weakness or
pain across small of back, loss of muscular power,
gloomy, remorseful, fearful of something going to
happen, disturbed sleep, moaning, talking, grinding
teeth, tearful or want to laugh.
I have known instances in which
most of these symptoms were present
in one patient. As a rule a great
many are present. In no case are
many absent.
Dr. WALLACE,
91 Pitt-st., Sydney, or Box 52, Park-st. P.O.
LAST
S I S
rjl H E
O E
PRICE —Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.


STEWART DAWSON & COS
Sydney and Melbourne Establishments—the Finest in the World.
Inapproachable Variety. Uocqtialled Valtie. WopderfOl Selection
The most recherche and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
First i*v Flegsncs. First ±xx Basils. Rcsouroos. T-irsfc ixt. Fopttlarity.
412 George-street, and Strand, Sydney; 97 & 99 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, ±2 2s.
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Dianiandi, Sapphires, £5 ss.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
Bjin. by 4in., -£.'2 7s. 6d.
n
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, 55.
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
m
No. 590.—15 ct. GOLD BROOC'I, Rubies and
Diamonds, 2 1 is.
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
m
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
13 10s.; J-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 10s.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
7Min-. £1 Is-
OTHER
SIZES.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2 25.; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
1 5s. 6d. ; 15ct., £llos.
Silver, 4s. 6d.
Ladies’ RING,.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
B
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Doable Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
IwSs!
Very 'Elegant fine Diamond BRACELET, £45.
T iis design in smaller sizes, from £2O.
m
W:
m
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, hist Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes —10in., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s. ; 14in., £3 ss.
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 10s.
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine White Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Ha f-hoop, fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold, £8 10s.
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Oct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15c,t. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
Oct. Gold, £1 155.; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handles,
Ivory Points, BJ4in., £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies’ ALBERT, 9ct. Gold, £2; 15ct., £3 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is.;
15ct. Gold, £ll7s. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £4 10s.
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 ss.
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
B%in. by W/An., £5 17s. 6d.
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths, 215., 255., and 30s.
No. 5 0. -Gold BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pe -rls and Sapphires, 18s. 6d.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 ss.
Elegant Diamond STAR, £5O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls, £2 2s.
vm
m
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d
No. 687. —Gold BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s.;
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Over Twenty Thousand Founds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishments are a complete cons
of UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings in the pound
George-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne.


An English court decided last month that
the Statute of Limitations applies to breaches of
promise. An Australian case of a few years ago
might have been successfully defended on this
ground, but the defendant’s legal adviser pooh-
poohed the plea.
The stereotyped excuse of Q. “drunks’’
is now : “ Please, yer worsh’p, I took a little
whisky to ease the pain of the dingo fever, an’,
not bein’ used to the drink, yer worsh’p,” &c., &c.
The dengue fever is a mighty social and political
power in Q. just now. It can keep a politician
out of a nasty Parliamentary division, and it can
get an honest man excused from serving on a jury.
To the embezzler who has “ the books ” safely at
home, it is simply invaluable, what time he rounds
up his friends.
H. : “ Owning a bit of Melb. suburban
property, I am deeply grateful to Chief-Commis-
sioner Chomley for the magnificent, and, I take it,
invariably sober, disentangled young policeman
placed in charge of my vicinage. One night I was
seized with a brilliant literary idea, and quickened
my pace. Bobby dropped from the clouds, as in
the shadow pantomime, with, ‘Hi! How do I
know but you came out of that backyard ? ’ and I
had to go with him and reconnoitre. Another
time I was hurrying home when he stopped me
with, ‘ Hi! How do I know but you’ve got a pal
in that house over there ? ’ Again I was under
arrest a minute and a half. ‘By thunder,’ said
I, ‘ you’ll be Chief-Commissioner yet.’ ‘ Ah,
you’re pocking borak.’”
A GRAND LITERARY INSTITUTION.
Cole’s Book Arcade now runs from the centre
of the block in Bourke-street to the centre of the
block in Collins-street, Melb., a distance of 060 ft.,
and contains the following 17 departments, mostly
literary and artistic : 1, New Books ; 2, Second-
hand Books ; 3, Stationery; 4, Music ;5, Fancy
Goods ; 6, Toys ; 7, Perfumery; 8, Pictures ; 9,
Artists’ Materials ; 10, an Ornamental Exhibition;
11, a Japanese Exhibition ; 12, a Wonderland ;
13, a Smiling Gallery; 14, a Child’s Picture
Gallery ; 15, a Bargain Room ; 16, a Tea Room ;
17, a splendidly arranged new Wholesale Book
Department, containing half-a-million books. The
main walks of the establishment are half-a-mile
long. *
SoftCa O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE IiKO'i'HEItS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
X
Tbc Address is Still:
MARK FOY’S,
OXFORD STREET.
ASK FOE COLONIAL-MADE WIRE
And. see tliat you get it.
NETTING,
2^PROOF
EY3
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND
L9SICHT IMS. * SO.
LIMITED.
ss
V» _
gg
SB
WSSBi
'SB
r\
H
m
The Tra~le Supplied. Price Lists on application
Special attention and quotations given lor
Large Orders.
Offices
Bligb Cbanjbers, Bligb-St., Sydney.
"W orks
Cb'SWick, Parramatta Ritfcr.
“ COURIER ” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
A City of Plagues .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scene—Hay-street, Perth, Westralia. Time —an
early-winter day. Pedestrians crowding on to the
shop-fronts to escape mud-splashes from vehicles
tumbling along the slush-laden street. A funeral
cortege in sight, headed by a scratch crowd play-
ing “The Dead March” (poor Billy Jinkins !).
Odious stenches permeate the air, and pedestrians,
as they move listlessly along, keep lifting a
hand to their foreheads as if to clear away a heavy
load. Faces—deep-lined and sallow or pale,
tinged with a hectic flush on the wasted cheeks,
and an expression like a parson’s at an execution.
Dry, husky coughs and offensive expectorations in
great evidence. The funeral passes ; then one
pedestrian singles out another :
First Ped. : “Hullo, Jack ! Seen Bill?”
Second Ped. : “Christ! didn’t you hear?’*
First Ped. : “ No : what ? ”
Second Ped. : “ Dead ! ”
First Ped. : “ Gor’struth ! ” (And his hand
goes up to h is forehead ; a shadow of pain crosses
his face as it drops heavily to his side again.)
Sec. Ped.: “ Seen anything of Tony ? ”
First Ped.: “Ah! I was just goin’ to tell
you
Sec. Ped. (eagerly and huskily): “ Oh, !
not him, Ted ! ”
First Ped.: “ We —we buried him yesterday. ”
Sec. Ped. : “My God! what’ll his mother do?
I promised to look after him over here for her, too.
My school-mate —her only son —poor woman !
poor woman ! But I couldn’t help it, Ted, I
couldn’t help it! I only came out of the hospital
myself this morning.”
First Ped. : “ My God, it’s horrible ! ”
Here a third pedestrian joins them. There’s a
list in his walk, and a slight hesitancy in his
speech ; some people might call it a hiccough. He
greets them : “ ’Lo Ted ! ’Lo Jack ! Orl rite
agin, ole chap ? . . . Been (’ic) up to see Jerry
Mao—hospital— dyiW (’ic). Got a load ‘ shypoo ’
—kill germs. Know (’ic) that young bloke sat
’tween you cornin’ over in the boat ? ”
Sec. Ped. : “ What! little Billy Green, who
used to sing the comic songs ? ”
Third Ped.: “ Pegged out (’ic). Fever can’t
hurt me, though—drunk too much—have wet ? ”
The three shuffle into a threep’ny bar. They
call for three “shypoos”—second and third peds.
drinkheartily—first ped. just touches liquor with his
lips, then sets the glass down and raises his hand
to his forehead. A deep sigh escapes him, and he
speaks huskily:—
“ By , Jack, I feel anyhow ! ”
His cheeks have become suddenly livid, his jaw
drops, then shuts with a clash, then drops again.
He feels the counter for support with his hands, as
though there was no sight in his glittering eyes.
He gives vent to a half-articulated appeal, then
reels and falls heavily.
“ It’s only a faint,” says the third ped.
“ Dead drunk ! ” says the barman ; but one who
knows goes out for a cab. In a few moments the
ufferer is placed carefully in it. The cabby asks
no questions. He’s been there before. The Hos-
pital! Luckily a bed is vaoant (somebody had
just died). The patient is admitted. A little
while later the second and third peds. re-appear.
(’ic) “What was it he said?”
“Fever and pneumonia !”
“Any hope ?”
“ None /”
Perth.
ESE.
Sydney Tory press alleges that the Hyde
Park railway-station controversy is merely a
question of railway sleepers versus human sleepers.
Hoe and Co., of London, are now building
for Sydney Daily Telegraph two up-to-date
machines, each capable of printing, cutting, fold-
ing, delivering, and numbering 36,000 eight-page
papers an hour.
A variation on the good old ‘ ‘ what might
have been a very serious accident.” In all solem-
nity a Tas. paper says :
As the runaway came careering round the corner, a hoy
took off his boots and threw one of them at the horse,
bringing the animal to the ground. The boy then seized
the opportunity and the horse’s head, holding it securely
until help arrived. The trap and harness was uninjured.
Just so. Then the boy gathered up his boots and
went round to the office to write up the above
local. No mistake about that boy’s future.
Dear Bulletin, —Paisley, the birthplace
of Premier Reid, is always spoken of in a con-
temptuous way, very much as Geelong is referred
to by the inhabitants of Smellbourne. “Edin-
burgh people, Glasgow folk, and Paisley bodies ”
is a common form of comparison. One Paisley
“body” in Australia, on being asked his birth-
place, replied, “near Glasgow, something like a
suburb ”; but, being pressed, admitted that Pais-
ley was the locality, and said : “ But dinna tell
anybody, for, as sure’s death, I couldna help it.”
—One o’ the Glesca Folk.
Condensation of the recent speech of a
member of Mackay (Q.) Harbor Board: “It’s
better for a Q. port to have a bad harbor than a
good one. Gladstone has the best harbor in the
province, and it is the poorest coast town. Port
Denison (Bowen) comes second, and is the next
poorest. Cooktown comes third, and is about
equal to Bowen in poverty. Townsville has the
worst harbor I ever saw ; it is a live, growing,
and thriving town. Rockhampton and Brisbane
have only third-rate harbors ; both big, and still
growing—not because of, but in spite of, their
harbors.”
Dear Bulletin, —If my memory serves
me, the firm from which the Nizam of Hyderabad
bought the allegedly stolen =£300,000 diamond, is
the firm a member of which was, half-a-dozen
years back, acquitted of embezzling a large lump
of same potentate’s coin over another diamond-
deal. In any case, a stealing more or less is no-
thing in the histories of the big Oriental diamonds,
which have all been so pertinaciously prigged and
re-prigged for centuries that it’s impossible to say
who is or was the rightful owner of any of them.
Even the boasted Kohinoor, as far as it can be
said to belong to anybody, is the property, not of
the British Crown, but of whoever now represents
the former Panjabi reigning family. Might’s the
only right, after all ! When it comes to hard cash,
the “ secret of England’s greatness ” is carefully
stowed away on a top-shelf.— Macassar.
A Terrible Kiss.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ropia, the wife of Wairuru, and Apia, her
daughter, hid themselves in the manuka and ate
fern-root to satisfy their hunger. They had seen
all their tribe fall before the guns of the N gapuhi,
and Hongi himself had set the raupo torch to the
whares. The two women alone were saved out of
all the great tribe of Ngawaruru.
Apia went down to the water to drink, and as
she stooped a Ngapuhi warrior sprang from cover
and seized her. “You are my captive,” he said,
“ and my slave.”
Apia uttered a cry, and, as her mother ran
quickly towards her, the Ngapuhi said : “ Another
captive! ”
The old woman spat at him. “Dog of a
Ngapuhi,” she cried, “ Apia, my daughter, shall
not be thy slave. Take me and I will hoe thy
kumeras. ”
“Nay,” said the Ngapuhi, “but I will take
both ; and Apia shall share my whare.”
“ Cursed be thy head,” screamed Ropia. “ Were
it not for the guns your people stole from the
pakehas my tribe would have filled the ovens with
Ngapuhi warriors. To Apia thou art but dirt.”
“Good dirt,” exclaimed the Ngapuhi; “and
Apia shall do my will.”
“ Flee quickly, Apia,” whispered the old woman
as she seized the Ngapuhi around the neck.
Apia sprang away, leaving her robe in the hands
of the warrior.
“ Come back,” shouted the man, “ or I will slay
thy mother ! ” and the girl halting, naked, saw the
tomahawk raised to strike.
“ Let me die, Apia ; but run—run quickly.”
“Nay, mother, I will not leave thee;” and
Apia approached the Ngapuhi and said, “Spare
my mother and I will do thy will.”
“ Is that how a daughter of Wairuru speaks ? ”
asked the old woman, bitterly ; but Apia whis-
pered in her mother’s ear an awful command, and
Ropia sank to the ground apparently insensible.
Then the warrior, holding the girl’s wrist, drew
her away, and uttered threats and promised bribes
in his passion, and Apia suddenly put her arms
about the warrior’s neck and kissed him, and
cried, in tones of strange meaning, “Thy captive,
O chief, and thy slave!” She saw that her mother
stood over the reclining man with his tomahawk
upheld.
“Thy captive, O chief; thy slave!” cried Apia
again, and she pressed her lips tightly to his and
clung to him with all her strength, for she saw the
tomahawk descend. But the blow was struck
with an old woman’s strength : it missed the
warrior’s head and gashed his shoulder. The
Ngapuhi, maddened with pain and fear, struggled
to free himself, but Apia held his face to hers.
“Thy captive, thy slave!” she cried again, and
again the tomahawk descended. The Ngapuhi,
in desperation, seized the girl’s lips with his
teeth and bit savagely, but the girl clung
to him with arms and legs, and though the
man’s teeth tore her cruelly she would not
loose her hold. Again the tomahawk de-
scended, and again, until the Ngapuhi ceased to
struggle and rolled over dead ; but still his teeth
were set through Apia’s lips until the mother
opened the strong jaws with the edge of the toma-
hawk, and though to speak was agony, the girl
whispered : “Am I not a daughter of Wairuru ? ”
and the mother replied : “ Aye, and thy kiss will
be remembered. We will take the Ngapuhi’s
cloak and his weapons, and thou shalt wear them.”
So the captives stripped the captor and burned
his body, and tramped southward to the Waikato
where Apia afterwards became the wife of Panui,
and the scar on her lips was held as a mark of
honor, and her terrible kiss was built into songs.
M.L.
F. ROLLETT.


"^ ou a Sufferer from Influenza, Rheumatism, &c., Sac. ?
IF SO, YOU WILL FIND A CERTAIN REMEDY IN
* PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE
WHICH POSITIVELY CUBE THE FOLLOWING AMONGST OTHER AILMENTS
Anaemia, Indigestion, Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous Headache, General Debility.
Tortured by Influenza
and Rheumatism.
/SUFFERED MUCH PAIN, WAS DESPON-
DENT, AND EASILY TIRED—SPENT
MUCH MONEY ON VARIOUS MEDI-
CINES BEFORE A CURE WAS FOUND.
The after-effects of influenza and rheumatism
are a combination well calculated to make any life
miserable. Influenza weakens the whole nervous
system, frequently leaving the victim with a con-
stant feeling of depression, fickle appetite, head-
ache, heart palpitation, and a feeling of exhaustion
as the result of the slightest exertion. As a cure
for the depressing after-effects of influenza, Dr.
Williams Pink Pills have met with more marvel-
lous success -than any other medicine known to
science. They act directly upon the blood and
nerves, renewing the one and fortifying the other
thus driving disease from the system. Among
those who speak in grateful terms of the wonder-
ful creative powers of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is
Mr. William Carroll, of Sydney, Manitoba. Mr.
Carroll has been a sufferer from rheumatism to a
considerable extent for upwards of twenty years,
and to add to his sufferings, for two successive
winters he was attacked with influenza in all its
severity, and was left in a weak and despondent
condition. Mr. Carroll says:—“Following the
second attack of influenza my whole system was
so weakened that it was with difficulty I could
do any work. In this condition I was an
easy prey to my old enemy, rheumatism, and I
suffered the agony of its pains in almost every
bone in my body. I doctored a great deal, but
without any beneficial results, and I spent seven-
teen dollars for one medicine largely advertised as
a cure for rheumatism, without the least benefit.
I naturally felt despondent, and thought the
trouble had fastened itself upon mein permanent
form. I had read so much of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills that I at last determined to give them a trial.
I can t say that I felt anything in the way of bene-
ficial results until I had used the third box, but at
that juncture the encouragement was so great that
I determined to continue the treatment, and I
used the Pink Pills throughout the winter, con-
stantly gaining in strength. When spring arrived
I found myself better than I had been for years,
every vestage of rheumatism had disappeared, and
although ten months have now passed since I took
the last pill, I have not had the slightest return of
the trouble. I therefore think it is but right that
I should make known the good I have received
from the famous Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I
hope my experience may be the means of helping
some other sufferer on the road to renewed health.”
An Accident at the
Sydney Docks .
A SAILORS’ NARROW ESCAPE.
HEAD STRUCK A PILE WHILE ROW-
ING ASHORE WITH THE LINE
FROM A SHIP, AND FELL INTO
THE WATER BRUISED AND IN-
SENSIBLE.
When a newspaper reporter went in search of
Mr. John Smith, of 4 Wilmot-street, Sydney, he
fortunately found him at home, and on his re-
marking that the object of his visit was to obtain
&
*
particulars of a narrow escape from death he had
, r \ Smith had lately experienced, found no
aithculty in obtaining the same.
Yes, it is quite true that X did have a narrow
escape said Mr. Smith, “and if you want to
hear about it I will tell you with pleasure. I was
down at Howard Smith’s wharf on the 19th
November last, where I was generally employed
and at the time I met with my accident was tak-
ing a line ashore from an incoming steamer.
Lhrough colliding with a post while in the boat I
got thrown into the water, receiving severe injury
to my head, in addition to being half drowned by
the quantity of dirty water I swallowed. I was
taken to the Sydney Hospital, where I remained
three weeks.”
“ Did they do you much good, Mr. Smith ?”
“ No, indeed ; they only patched me up for the
time being, and it was lucky for me that I got a
bit of an easy job minding the gate at the wharf
tor 1 was so desperately weak and debilitated that
i. could not attempt to take on hard work. How-
ever, I managed to stay on for five weeks, and
then returned home for three or four days’rest,
which I was badly in need of. I then went to see
the Government Medical Officer, who said my
case was incurable, and wanted me to go to Liver-
pool Asylum ; but this I refused to do, so I ulti-
mately returned to Sydney Hospital, where I
remained three weeks.”
“Did you feel any better after that, Mr.
Smith ? ”
“ No, decidedly worse ; in fact, twice over
worse, and was glad to return to my home again.”
‘‘How did you feel affected, Mr. Smith ? ”
“ Chiefly spitting of blood, which would keep
me awake day and night. Mrs. Rees, my land-
lady, can tell you how bad I was ; in fact, she
thought it was all over with me and that I should
not be long for this world.”
“ How did you hear of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, which we are told was what pulled you to-
gether again ? ”
“ Through a pamphlet being left at the house.
I thought at first that the Pills were too expensive
for me, but Mrs. Rees persuaded me to try them,
so I got a box and started to take them according
to printed directions. After the first box I felt
much better, the blood-spitting almost left me, my
appetite returned; indeed, it was better than be-
fore my accident. It is a remarkably rare thing
for me to spit blood at all now.”
‘‘ Do you attribute this beneficial effect to Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills ? ”
“ I do entirely ; in fact, in must be so, for I have
taken no other medicine. Before my accident I
always enjoyed the best of health, having led a
healthy outdoor life, so it proves my accident must
have been a very serious one to knock nie up as it
did. I have the firmest belief in the virtues of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and so has Mrs. Rees,
my landlady. (Mrs. Rees here certainly corrobo-
rated Mr. Smith’s statements in every particular).
I have,” continued Mr. Smith, “ strongly recom-
mended these pills to all my friends and acquaint-
ances, and they, have also a strong advocate in
Mrs. Rees, who is a firm believer in them.”
(Signed) JOHN SMITH,
4 Wilmot-street,
Off Liverpool-street,
Sydney.
Female Weakness
Cured .
Mrs. J. H. M'Millan, South Finch, Ont., says :
“ For seven years I was affected with what is
generally termed female weakness, and was at
times for weeks unable to leave my bed. My
friends all thought that I was going into a decline
and had consumption. My complexion was
sallow, my appetite was almost gone, and I was
terribly emaciated; my head gave me great trouble,
and at times the pain was so great that I feared
it would affect my reason. I had tried many
medicines without avail, and began to despair of
recovery, when I was urged to try Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. The result has been marvellous.
From a sickly, despairing woman I have been
transformed into one full of health and energy
and I feel more thankful than I can say for the
wonders Pink Pills have done for me.”
P
i
| This is an exact repre-
[ sentation of the only
genuine package, which
is in a wrapper of white
paper, printed in red.
Inside the wrapper are
Dr. Williams’ Directions
for Use, enclosing the
wooden box or tube,
which is about two inches
long, and a shade larger
round than a silver shil-
ling. In this form alone
are they genuine. In
case of doubt, it is better
to send direct to the
DR. WILLIAMS’
MEDICINE CO.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
A SPECIFIC FOR MANY
LONG SUPPOSED TO BE
SUCH AS
DISEASES
INCURABE,
LOCOMOTOR ATAXY,
cm . rT ™ TT PARTIAL PARALYSIS,
ST. VITUS’ DANCE, SCIATICA,
RHEUMATISM, SCROFULA,
CHRONIC ERYSIPELAS, &c., &c.
READ WHAT THEY HAVE DONE.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, are
sold by chemists and Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Company, Sydney, who will forward (post paid)
on receipt of stamps or post order, one box for
2s. 9d., or half-dozen for 14s. 9d. They are un-
rivalled as a tonic for both sexes.
Mr. Smellingscheck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We met him in a sixpenny restaurant—
“ All meals, 6d.— Good beds, Is.” That was
before sixpenny restaurants rose to a third-class
position, and became possibly respectable places
to live in, through the establishment, beneath
them, of fourpenny hash-houses (good beds, 6d.),
and, beneath them again, of three- penny “dining-
rooms— clean beds, 4d.”
There were five beds in our apartment, the head
of one against the foot of the next, and so on
round the room, with a space where the door and
washstand were. I chose the bed the head of which
was near the foot of his—because he looked like a
man who took his bath regularly. I would like,
in the interests of sentiment, to describe the place
as a miserable, filthy, evil-smelling garret; but I
can t because it wasn’t. The room was large and
airy ; the floor was scrubbed and the windows
cleaned at least once, a week, and the beds kept
fresh and neat, which is more—a good deal more
than can be said of many genteel private boarding-
houses. The lodgers were mostly respectable un-
employed, and one or two—the fortunate men !
in work ; it was the casual boozer, the professional
loafer, and the occasional spieler—the one-shilling-
“ men—who made the place objectionable, not
the hard-working people who paid .£l5 a week for
the house ; and, but for the one-night lodgers and
big' gilt black-and-red bordered and “ shaded ”
bd in the window—which made me glance
guiltily up and down the street, like a burglar
about to do a job, before I went in—l was prettv
comfortable there.
* • * *
They called him “Mr. Smellingscheck, ”
as near as I can remember to spell it, and the
people of the house treated him with a peculiar
kind of respect, or deference, the reason for
which they themselves were doubtless unable
to explain or even understand. The haggard
woman who made the beds called him “Mr.
Smell-’is-cheek. ” Poor fellow! I didn’t think
by the look of him, that he’d smelt his cheque or
anyone else’s, or that anyone else had smelt his ’for
many a long day. He was a fat man, slow and
placid. He looked like a “typical” monopolist
who had, in some unaccountable manner, got into
a suit of ciothes belonging to a Domain unem-
ployed, and hadn t noticed, or had entirely for-
gotten, the circumstance in his business cares—if
such a word as care could be connected with such
a calm, self-contained nature. He wore a suit of
cheap slops of some kind of shoddy “tweed.”
The coat was too small and the trousers too short
and they were drawn up to meet the waistcoat—
which they did with painful difficulty, now and
then showing, by way of protest, two pairs of
brass buttons and the ends of the brace-straps,
and they seemed to blame the irresponsive
waistcoat or the wearer for it all. Yet he
never gave way to assist them. A pair of
burst ’lastic-sides were in full evidence, and a rim
of cloudy sock, with a hole in it, showed at every
But he put on his clothes and wore them like—
like a gentleman. He had two white shirts, and
they were both dirty. He’d lay them out on the
bed, turn them over, regard them thoughtfully
choose that which appeared to his calm understand-
ing to be the cleaner, and put it on, and wear it until
it was unmistakeably dirtier than the other, then
he’d wear the other ’till it was dirtier than the
first. He managed his three collars the same way.
His handkerchiefs were washed in the bathroom,
and dried, without the slightest disguise, in the
bedroom. He never hurried in anything. The
way he cleaned his teeth, shaved, and made his
toilet almost transformed the place, in my imagin-
ation, into a gentleman’s dressingroom.
* * • •
He talked politics and such tilings in the
abstract—always in the abstract —calmly in the
abstract. He was an old-fashioned Conservative
of the Victorian-deadlock style. When he was
moved by an extra shower of aggressive demo-
cratic cant—which was seldom —he defended
Capital, but only as if it needed no defence, and
as if its opponents were merely thoughtless, ignor-
ant children, whom he condescended to set right
because of their inexperience and for their own
good. He stuck calmly to his own order—the
order which had, or would have if he had given it
the chance, dropped him like a foul thing when
the bottom dropped out of his boom—whatever
that was. Tor he never talked of his misfortunes.
* * * «
He took his meals, at the little greasy
table in the dark corner downstairs, just as if he
were dining at the Exchange. He had a chop—
rather well-done — and a sheet of the Herald for
breakfast. He carried two handkerchiefs; he
used one for a handkerchief and the other for a
table-napkin, and sometimes folded it absently
and laid it on the table. He rose slowly putting
his chair back, took down his battered old green
hat, and regarded it thoughtfully (in the abstract)
as though it had just occurred to him in a calm,
casual way that he’d drop into his hatter, if he
had time, on his way down town, and get it
blocked —or else send the messenger round with it
during business hours. He’d draw his stick out
from behind the next chair, plant it, and, if you
hadn’t quite finished your side of the conversation,
stand politely waiting until you were done. Then
he’d look (for a suitable reply) into his hat, put
it on, give it a twitch to settle it on his head
as gentlemen do a “ chimney-pot ” —step
out into the gangway, turn his face to the door,
and walk slowly out on to the middle of the pave-
ment —looking more placidly well-to-do than ever.
The saying is that clothes make a man, but he
made his almost respectable, and improved them
just by wearing them. Then he’d consult his
watch he stuck to the watch all through, and it
seemed a good one—l often wondered why he
didn t pawn it—then he’d turn slowly, right turn,
and look down the street. Then slowly back, left-
about turn, and take a cool survey in that direc-
tion, as if calmly undecided whether to take a cab
and drive to the Exchange, or, it being a very fine
morning, and he having half-an-hour to spare,
vralk there and drop in at his club on the way.
He d conclude to walk. I never saw him go any-
where in particular, but he walked and stood as if
he could.
* * * *
Coming quietly into the room one day, I
surprised him sitting at the table with his arms
lying on it and his face resting on them. I heard
something like a sob. He rose hastily, and
gathered up some papers which were on the
table ; then he turned round, rubbing his forehead
and eyes with his forefinger and thumb, and told
us that he suffered from—something, I forget the
name of it, but it was a well-to-do ailment. His
manner seemed a bit jolted and hurried for a
minute or so, and then he was himself again. He
told me he was leaving for Melbourne next day.
He left while I was out, and left an envelope
downstairs for me. There was nothing in it
except a pound-note.
♦ * * *
I saw him in Brisbane afterwards, well-
dressed, getting out of a cab at the entrance of
one of the leading hotels. But his manner was
no more self-contained and well-to-do than it had
been in the old sixpenny days—because it couldn’t
be. We had a well-to-do whisky together, and he
talked of things in the abstract. He seemed just
as if he’d met me in the Australia.
HENRY LAWSON.
A fine sample of that scarce and rapacious
carnivorous marsupial the “native tiger,” which
has a beautiful spotted and banded skin, some-
thing like the native cat’s, was shot at Lilliemur,
Wimmera, Vic., the other day, by Mr. Hawker,
a farmer, after it had killed and partly eaten two
collie pups. The “tiger” was 4Jft. long and
30in. high. Perhaps the “Tantanoola tiger” was
not a myth after all.
In Richmond (Vic.) court the other day
a man was charged with having had im-
proper relations with a girl under the Age of
Consent. Just as the bench was about to launch
the thunders of the law against the guilty one,
a telegram arrived from the girl’s father (who was
in Westralia) sanctioning her marriage to defen-
dant. The police-inspector at once withdrew the
charge, and the bench, with a “ Bless-you-my-
children ” smile, dismissed the case. “ The young
couple then left the court to seek a neighboring
clergyman. ” Some time ago a similar case occurred
in southern N.S.W., but on that occasion the
bench didn’t bother asking the parents but simply
gave its consent to the marriage.
A young lady, now in trouble in Sydney, is
alleged to have been a bigamist in a large way of
business. In 1890 she pleaded guilty to marrying
one Heath while another husband, Martin, was
still alive. The charge this time is that she married
Coulston while Martin and Heath were still alive,
and it is also alleged that she married Bradley in
between times. Bradley appears to be a matter
of uncertainty, but the other three are admitted.
Apparently Martin was a failure, having a habit
of getting into gaol, and his young wife had to go
round marrying other men at intervals for the
sake of a home. After all, bigamy is perhaps the
wisest course for a lady so situated. It is neces-
sary for a woman to put in three years as a de-
serted wife before she can get a divorce and find
another man to lawfully support her, and three
years spent in hustling for an honest livelihood
ages a woman considerably, so that when she is
available the other man probably doesn’t want her.
Or, if he does marry her, he may also disappear,
and then another three years’ hustle has to be put
in before she can get free, and that is certain to
leave her very old indeed. Bigamy seldom means
more than three months for a woman who pleads
desertion as a mitigating circumstance, and be-
tween the chance of three months’ confinement
and the certainty of three years’ hard labor
at plain sewing or the like, the advantage
seems to lie with bigamy every time. And, if
the second partner of the lady-bigamist deserts
her, she can simply go and “big” again. So
long as she is clever and reasonably attractive,
it is a resource that is always open, while divorce
is a pool of Siloam which the law agitates with
its expensive brief once in three years only, and
not always then.
Never a Foe!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They preach and they patter of peace, do the wise,
As though Truth ever kissed with the Lovers of
Lies;
They bid us be meek and they bid us give hand
To the caitiff and craven that creep in the land;
And the battle that putteth the man to the test,
And sunders the base as a dross from the best,
They tell how it worketh but evil and woe,
But I wot that each man with a soul hath a foe !
Now gather thy friends as a flock to thy fold,
And garner their love in thy heart as a hold ;
Be cheery of brow, but be chary of hand,
And hope for no truce with the sycophant band.
Dost call thyself comrade, yet palter and pale ?
Dost prate of thy love and yet falter and fail ?
Wouldst thou bind me as steel thou must back me
with blow —
He hath never a friend who hath never a foci
So ready with hand on the hilt, brother mine ;
To-day we drink deep of Bellona’s red wine.
Dost hear how the trumpets all joyously swell?
Dost see the grim front of the armies of Hell ?
Aye ! Life is no Sybarite rose-bed, I ween,
But a battle to-day as it ever hath been ;
For from Heaven above to Gehenna below
Must the true man be tried—in the fire of a foe.
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
From Pleasant Creek (Vic.) News :
At the business place of Messrs. Trend and Brown yes-
terday we had shown to us a butcher’s-cart which has
just been repaired and painted for Mr. Cock. The artist,
Mr. Speary, has displayed considerable ability and taste
with the brush. The firm are to be congratulated on hav-
ing secured the services of such an artist. The cart is
beautifully decorated with flowers, and the name of the
proprietor is executed in bold letters.
A Roma (Q.) publican was sick—apparently
suffering a recovery after more or less d.t. He was
in a very low condition, and to be alone was intoler-
able to his shattered nerves. His nurse left his
bedroom for a few minutes, thinking him asleep.
He jumped out of bed, and, in his shirt, walked
round a verandah into the bar, apparently making
for the room behind the bar. He was not in pub-
lic view for one minute, and was not responsible
for his act. Two constables arrested him in the
bar, took him to the lock-up, and placed him in a
padded cell. Frantically he entreated that some-
one might stay with bim. Petition unheeded.
He died in the cell, alone and unattended. No
enquiry was held.
The Colonial Tweeds manufactured by
Messrs. Murray Brothers, of Parramatta, received
Gold Medal and First Prize at the recent Agri-
cultural Show. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, the
Pitt-street Economical Tailors, are supplying
suits to order of these excellent tweeds for 45/-,
and will forward to any address (Yes ! no matter
where) complete range of samples, also instructions
for self-measure, post free. Hordern Brothers,
Nos. 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydnev.
(Please mention this paper when ordering, as it
shows us exactly what to send you.)


*SJ
U
V
I*
V
V
fill ls>
Beccbanj’S Tootl) Paste
RECOMMENDS ITSELE.
Efficacious — Economical. - Cleanses the Teeth.
Perfumes the Breath.
In Collapsible Tables, of all Drag gists, Is.
The
Mighty Healer.
HAVE YOU A COUGH ?
A LOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
r A D OSE at BED TIME WILL REMOVE IT. 1
EBTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
I<> mif fe " *' eeks a -° 1 oauirht a severe cold, which affected my breath so t
' '' ! ■'* 'town i.i lied. A relaiiie told me of your Tonic. One I) 1 '
no. iN* ouveu uie, Several bottles of medicine from local doctor did
S. LKVT, Holloway Head, Birmingham.
that
11 le
me
Your LurgTonic wasrecr rrmendfrl to me some years ago, and I have used
' with the most satisfactory results ever since. I keep it in the house, ami
pen the first symptoms of a cold or cough, commence taking it, and invari-
'My find they disappear.’’—A. J. SMITH, 29 Calderon Eoad, Lev tons tone.
Try jt for Consumption.
>y it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS
Prepared by
W. T. OWBR>DGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. l£d., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6<t ,
and 11s., by all Chemists and Pate- t
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LAST OF SIX
Mick Simmons,
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Go®is.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, FANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACXOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
-itTTTT T A Ti TO
WILIjI A MIS.
—AND—
CIGAIiS:
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HTGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MAMLA, &e„ &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO.
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment,
ggr Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HATMARKET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to Sydney. — Don’t be waylaid, by Impostors tvho are Tryiny to Infringe the Rights
of the Misfit Parlour, Registered. Please taJce notice that
NATHAN HERMAN
HAS THE SOLE RIGHT OF HIS REGISTERED BRAND, THE
MISFIT PARLOUR.
Criminal Proceedings will be Instituted Against Those Who Are Deluding the Public !
NATHAN HERMAN’S MISFIT PARLi UR is situated in WYNYARD-STIiEET ONLY,
AND WII EWE THE BUSINESS FllisT ORIGINATED.
NATHAN HERMAN has taken an Extended Lease of his OLD-ESTABLISHED PREMISES, Wynyard-street, and
has decided, in consequence of heavy ■ hipments coining to hand, to clear out the following Lines, regardless of cost;
BREECH-LOADING GUNS, Top Actions, 12 bore, 555. ; BRITISH BULL DOG REVOLVERS, 6 Chambers, 6s. 6d. :
WATCHES and CHAINS, Perfect Timekeepers, ss. lid. ; Genuine BRUSSELS CARPETS, Splendid Designs, Is. 6d.,
Making and Laving Free; BEST QUALITY FLOORCLOTHS, Thick as a Board, Is. 6d.; No Finer Quality TEA in
Sydney, ss. a "Box of 101 b. CHESTERS ! CHESTERS ! CHESTERS 1-MISFITS FROM MELBOURNE, in Blue,
Brown, or Fawn ; Heavy Vicunas, cost L p 7 made to order, 375. 6d. is the Sale Price. Come and see them ; even if you
don’t want to buv. WATERPROOF COATS, with Capes, Velvet Collars, Guaranteed Sewn, 17s. 6d. BLANKETS,
THE CHEAPEST IN THE LAND, BOOTS and SHOES for MEN, WOMEN, and CHILDREN at Prices That Will
Stupefy You. MEN’S SUITS, TAILOR-MADE, 17s. 6d. MOSELEYS 78 E.P. TABLE and DESSERT KNIVES,
Balanced Handles, 7Jd. each. AUSTRIAN CHAIRS, put together, 4s. 6d. REAL HAVANA CIGARS, 12s. per
Hundred. And Many Thousands of Other Lines that would take a whole newspaper to describe.
NATHAN HERMAN, the Misfit Parlour (Registered),
9 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
£2 BALE. MY WONDi RFUL £2 BALE.
£2.
Comprising One Complete SUIT OF CLOTHES out of the Best Material, any size.
Two OUTER SHIRTS (White or Colored), Two UNDERSHIRTS (Flannel or otherwise).
Six Pairs MEN’S SOCKS, Two NECKTIES, Two COLLARS, Six HANDKERCHIEFS.
One Set of STUDS, One HAT (either Soft or Hard Felt).
One Pair BRACES or BELT, One Pair BOOTS or SHOES.
A GENTLEMAN’S RIG-OUT FROM HEAD TO FOOT FOR TWO (2) POUNDS.
£2.
£l. MY WONDERFUL £l BALES £l.
NO. I.—MY DRESS BALE contains THREE DRESSES and LININGS as follows 2 Dress Lengths of New
Fancy Tweed, Cashmere, or All-wool Serge and Nun’s Veiling, 12 yards of Good Print, 8 yards Silesia, 2)4 yards
Body Lining, and 6 yards White Calico, 20s. the lot.
NO. 2. MY WONDERFUL HOUSEHOLD PARCEL, containing yards White Twill Sheeting 80in. wide;
1 dozen yards Good Household Calico, 1 yard wide ; 6 yards splendid quality of Flannelette, wide width, soft finish ;
2) yards Cream Linen Damask ; A dozen White Turkish Towels : 6 yards Linen Apron Dowlas ; a grand 20s. worth.
NO. 3.-MY MARVELLOUS LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING BALE, comprising a Complete Outfit of Really Nice
Garments, Two Chemises, Two Nightdresses, TvvoiPairs Knickers, all pure longcloth, beautifully trimmed with Swiss
Embroidery ; All-wool Singlets (summer weight), One Pair Corsets (state size), One Large Holland Apron, One Fancy
Apron, Two Pairs Cashmere Hose, or Four Pairs Stainless Black Cotton Hose ; the.lot for 20s.
No. 4 BALE ECLIPSES EVERYTHING, BEING MY EYE-OPENING DRESS PARCEL—Contains 7 yards
double-width of any of the following fashionable materials : New Alpaca Effect, All-wool Tweed, Hopsacs, Serge
or Cashmere, Figured Lustres; also very elegant patterns in All-wool Nun’s Veiling. In fact, from materials
costing over 2s. 9d. per yard double-width. Together with sufficient of any Fashionable Trimming desired, and
all Linings, Buttons, and extras required for making a really superior dress. The ENTIRE BALE FOR £l.
No. 6 BALE FOR XT, WORTH £‘3 AT LEAST, comprising Table Cutlery, Spoons, Forks, etc*., eto. Read,
Mark, and Inwardly Digest 6 Balance-handled Table Knives, pinned ; (i Balance handled Dessert Knives, pinned;
6 E.P. Page’s Best Table Spoons; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Dessert Spoons; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Dessert Forks; 6 E.P.
Page’s Best Table Forks ; 6 E.P. Page’s Best Teaspoons; 1 Mustard Spoon ; 1 Sait Spoon ; 1 Pair Best Carvers.
No. 7 BALE A SMOKER’S OUTFIT, comprising 1 Box, containing 100 splendid Cigars; lib. Best Tobacco,
12 plugs; 1 Meerschaum Pipe (in case); 1 India-rubber Tobacco Pouch; 1 Plated Match Box ; 1 Briar Pipe;
1 Pocket Knife, two blades ; 1 splendid Razor; 1 Shaving Brush ; 1 Razor Strop. THIS LOT, WORTH £3, FOR £l.
With Amazement I Read On. No. 8 SERVICEABLE BALE contains—l Oak-frame Clock, 8-day, strikea
and hour, Cathedral Gong, visible pendulum, worth 30s. ; 1 Clothes Brush ; 1 Hair Brush ; 1 Comb ; 1 Tooth
Comb; 1 Tooth Brush ; 1 Purse ; 1 Adelaide Corkscrew ; 3 Packs No. 4 Jumbo Playing Cards; 1 Box Gold Paint;
1 Alarm Clock. Purchasers not requiring a second clock can have in its place 6 Boxes Assorted Perfumed Soap each
containing 3 Tablets. THIS MARVELLOUS LOT, WORTH £3 FOR £l.
83T CARRIAGE FREE BY RAIL OR STEAMER THROUGHOUT NEW SOUTH WALES.
Nathan Herman,
Universal . .
. . Provider
9 WYNYiRD STEEZT (Half-way be J ween George and York Streets), SYDNEY,


* Qubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
“ Pdbcc”
Sold by the Leading Tobacco*
nists and Clubs of Australia.
r-THE-'
Ballet <*\r\,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting hei
Theatrical and Domes*
tic life
Post Free 1/-.
Also The Life, Adven-.
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNRY,
M ADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS on Application
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoi) P(iri)piQg Ei>gii>e Conjpapy.
(Au&tralasiwn Branch.) rn pSOTI ‘RTOtill ftTS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, X.S.W.
. /-'
REGULAR PATTERN.
Agencies :
■Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTOI Pumps for all Services
b iia. Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
SECOND-HAND and NEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£ 1 Saved is equivalent to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
i quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
! where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (opp. Margaret-st.), SYDNEY.
| Telephone 1023.
rST- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these gi and medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxe< and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, Londan, they are
apurious.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Mi k, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) - 92 King - Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is <>m- of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBJUR STREET— THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents 33vex-ywliex-e. H. PATESON, MANAGER.
p
ARKE
AdEZJNTXISr Gr
&
LACY COMPANY,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
JML ikCXZIId aESDEtY, ZESIVO-XIVTIES &
wmmmmnmmmmammnmmmmMMzsanßßmmt.Mmwaammarm^Tr — otnHzsszr. .^.’aMiwy sammmmmm—mm
Limited,
BOILERS.
Crusliir IMCetcla.ATcxeix* v.
Gates Rock Breakers. Giant Rock Breakers. Dodge Rock Breakers. Sample Grinders. Coarse Crushing Rolls.
Roger Rolls. Finishing Rolls. Wall’s Corrugated Rolls. Krom Rolls.
Taylor Hand Rock Breakers. Low’s Hand Rock Breakers. HENDY’S CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS.
Anra.lga.Ttia.tiMg
Clean-up Pans. California Amalgamator. Cook Amalgamator. Agitators. Blast Furnaces.
£Xea.ter.
California Feed Water Heater and Purifier. *“
Roasting and OHI oridizing Furnaces.
ROPP STRAIGHT LINE MECHANICAL FURNACE. REVOLVING FURNACES,
Conesntrati ag Machinery.
Hartz Jigs and Plunger Jigs, with wood or Iron Boxes, Single, Double, or Triple Compartments. Frue Vanners. Triumph Concentrators.
Dodge and Osgood Slime Tables. Trommels, with Punched or Wire Screens.
Lixiviating Machinery.
Improved Crushing and Roasting Machinery for Subsequent Treatment of Ores.
Leaching and Precipitating Tanks. Sulphide, Roasting and Melting Furnaces. Retorts.
REoistixxg Ifc'lAOlilvi.esxry.
Geared and Direct Acting Hoists, Cages, Landing Dogs, Ore and Water Buckets, and Horse Mining Whims.
Rnmping HAadainery.
Boiler Feed and Tank Pumps. Sinking Pumps for Mines.* Piston Pumps. Outside Packed Plunger Pumps.
Compound and Compouud Condensing Pumps, Knowles and other Patents.
Compressor and Rock Orill Plants.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Co.’s Appliances. Compressors, Air Receivers, Coal Cutters, Rock Drills, &0., &c.
Blowers.
Root’s Patent, and Baker Blowers, specially adapted for Smelting Works. Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans. Sturtevant and Huyett & Smith’s Fans
for Ventilating Purposes.
■\y ater Wlieels.
LEFFEL’S TURBINE WHEELS. PELTON IMPACT AND HIGH PRESSURE WHEELS.
Bullock Diamond Drills. Huson’s Wire Rope Tramway. Vulcan Wire Rope Tramway. Laundry Machinery. Hall’s Hydro-Steam Elevators for all purposes.
Caldwell’s Sectional Boilers. Simmons’ Steam Boilers. Pennsylvania Boilers. Columbia Boilers. Wood and Iron Working Machinery and Supplies.
CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
Huntington Centrifugal Mills.
Dodge Pulverizers.
Pans and Settlers.
THE - -
VIBRATOR
THE - -
OSCILLATOR
AlxL SIJNGEK SEWING MACHINES
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
§*■""9 Powder.
Scale of Advertlsln
-IN-
“ THE BULLETIN.’
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions)
One Year ~ (52 insertions)
Paragraph Ad vettisemen ts
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent.
20 ~
25
discount.
An' extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
Boi)i)ii)gtoo’&
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Saft as it is Certain.
YY’HLL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
’ T INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
.It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
„ It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
