

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
*
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
COE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers & Iron & Metal Merchants,
Our Kindred Houses are-
Have a complete Stock of Shelf Goods, and every other description of Hardware.
-BKISCOE and CO., Melbourne; ARTHUR BRISCOE and CO., Dunedin;
BRISCOE, MACNEIL and CO., Wellington; and WILLIAM BRISCOE and SONS, London.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
tg, >
% x J§*
<RAckAhocK>
a %
w
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarenoe Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & Co.,
85 Fitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, Eiigland. BROAD I j ENT'S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Tiiomas Broadbknt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power' plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecricai; Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
ROBERTS’ Wine and Spirit Store,
MARKET STREET (NEXT GEORGE STREET).
The Cheapest House in Sydney. Everything Cood. Everything Cheap.
The CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s. per Bottle.
TEACHERS’ HIGHLAND CREAM WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
GLENLIVET WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial quart 5s 6d.
FINE OLD PALE BRANDY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, ss. 6d.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s. per Bottle.
WHYTE & MACKAY’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
The FAVORITE “FOUR CROWN” WHISKY, 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
WALKER’S SPECIAL and EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY, in flagons, per Imperial Quart, 6s. 6d.
VERY SUPERIOR OLD PORT WINE POR INVALIDS.
Splendid Rum for Coughs and Colds. Roberts’ Special Whisky for Influenza.
ROBERTS* HOTEL,
GEORGE and MARKET STS.
SYDKTBY.
S Dining Room for Ladies and Gentlemen. Bed and Breakfast, 55.; splendid Lunch, Is. 6d.
{Before wifing the Of/ write to the Manager for
Cara of Tariff, (prrejpondence prompMy attended to.
Lennon’s Hotel,
JBJRISBA3XTE.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
WILLIAM PETERMANN,
Proprietor.
(Late Manager Hotel Metropole, Sydney.)
T ZEE IE - -
6rosVsoorNotsl,
Grosvenor Square,
SY333NTEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
PIONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED TO GIVE
ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
H : ghest Award World's Fair, Chicago, 1893.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CXtARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Toronto Hotel,
hake
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kejpt for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
I W Poverty Pointers,
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST:
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. asentb : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
i GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
A Prose and Yerse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
T h L'HORNSBYAKROYD
FIXED
PORTABLE I
-
Hl
Both First Phizes RASE[SIOd>
R hORNSBY*SONSI°GRANTHAM
Henry Simon,
MEADOW BANK,
THE LEADING MILLING ENGINEER,
(Branch of Manchester Firm)
Has reoently been appointed agent for the HORNSBY
AKROYD OIL ENGINE.
FROSSARP’S CAVOUR CIGARS. PACKETS OF 8 FOR Is.
The Bulletin
Voi 18.—JNo. 917. j
[Saturday, September 11, 1697.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
EORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S STORIES (from The Buu.ll-
tin) ; price. Is. 6d. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from Tun
Bulletin), by Price Warung; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d.}
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
A G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub -
Usher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0.. SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
“ NEAREST AND DEAREST”
to the hearts of the Australian public on account of their faithful manufacture are
CAMEO
CIGARETTES.
They are perfectly pure, perfectly wholesome, and “ very naice ”!
THE RED PAGE.
TEE HIGH TIDE ON THE COAST OF
LINCOLNSHIRE.
1571.
The old mayor climbed the belfry tower,
The ringers ran by two, by three;
‘Pull if ye never pulled before ;
Good ringers, pull your best,’ quoth he.
‘ Pla y u PPe, play uppe, O Boston b lls 1
Ply all your changes, all your swell*,
Play uppe “The Brides of Enderby. ’»•
Men gay it was a stolen tyde—
The Lord that sent it, He knows all;
But in myne ears doth still abide
The message that the hells let fall:
And there was nought of strange, beside
The flights of mews and peewits pied
By millions crouched on the old sea wall.
I sat and spun within the doore,
My thread brake off, I raised mine eyes ;
The level sun, like ruddy ore,
Lay sinking in the barren skies,
And dark against day’s golden death
She moved where Lindis wandereth,
My sonne’s faire wife, Elizabeth.
‘ Cusha 1 Cusha ! Cusha ! ’ calling,
Ere the early dews were falling,
Farre away I heard her song.
‘ Cusha 1 Cusha ! ’ all along
Where the reedy Lindis floweth,
Floweth, floweth ;
From the meads where melick groweth
Faintly came her milking song—
* Cusha 1 Cusha ! Cusha 1 ’ calling,
‘ For the dews will soone be falling ;
Leave your meadow 7 grasses mellow,
Mellow, mellow ;
Quit your cow slips, cowslips yellow ;
Come uppe Whitefoot, come uppe Lightfoot,
Quit the stalks of parsley hollow,
Hollow, hollow;
Come uppe Jetty, rise and follow,
From the clovers lift your head ;
Come uppe Whitefoot, come uppe Lightfoot,
Come uppe Jetty, rise and follow,
Jetty, to the milking shed.’
If it be long, ay, long ago,
When I beginne to think how 7 e long,
Againe I hear the Lindis flow,
Swift as an arrowe, sharpe and strong;
And all the aire, it seemeth mee,
Bin full of floating bells (sayth shee),
That ring the tune of Enderby.
Alle fresh the level pasture lay,
And not a shadowe mote be seene,
Save w r here full fyve good miles aw 7 ay
The steeple towered from out the greens ;
And lo 1 the great bell farre and wide
Was heard in all the country side
That Saturday at eventide.
The swanherds where their sedges are
Moved on in sunset’s golden breath,
The shepherde lads I heard afarre,
And my sonne’s wife, Elizabeth ;
Till floating o’er the grassy sea
Came downe that kyndly message free,
The * Brides of Mavis Enderby.’
Then some looked uppe into the sky,
And all along where Lindis flows
To where the goodly vessels lie,
And where the lordly steeple shows.
They sayde, ‘ And why should this thing bet
What danger lowers by land or sea?
They ring the tune of Enderby 1
‘ For evil news from Mablethorpe,
Of pyrate galleys warping down;
For shippes ashore beyond the scorpe,
They have not spared to wake the towne:
But while the west bin red to see,
And storms be none, and pyrates flee,
Why ring • The Brides of Enderby ’ ?
I looked without, and 10l my sonne
Came riding downe with might and main:
He raised a shout as he drew on,
Till all the welkin rang again,
* Elizabeth 1 Elizabeth 1 ’
(A sweeter woman ne’er drew breath
That my sonne’s wife, Elizabeth.)
‘ The olde sea wall (he cried) is downe,
The rising tide comes on apace,
And boats adrift in yonder towne
Go sailing uppe the market-plaoe.'
He shook as one that looks on death:
‘God save you, mother 1 ’ straight he saith ;
‘Where is my wife, Elizabeth ?’
‘Good sonne, where Lindis winds away,
With her two bairns I marked her long;
And ere j'on bells beganne to play
Afar I heard her milking song.’
He looked across the grassy lea,
To right, to left, ‘ Ho Enderby 1 ’
They rang ‘The Brides of Enderby !*
With that he cried and beat his breast}
For, lo! along the river's bed
A mighty eygre reared his crest,
And uppe the Lindis raging sped.
It swept with thunderous noises loud;
Shaped like a curling snow-white cloud,
Or like a demon in a shroud.
And rearing Lindis backward pressed,
Shook all her trembling bankes amaine ;
Then madly at theeygre’s breast
Flung uppe her weltering walls again,
Then bankes came downe with ruin and rout—
Then beaten foam flew round about—
Then all the mighty'floods were out.
So farre, so fast the eygre drave,
The heart had hardly time to beat,
Before a shallow seething wave
Sobbed in the grasses at oure feetj
The feet had hardly time to flee
Before it brake against the knee,
And all the world was in the sea.
Upon the roofe we sate that night,
The noise of bells went sweeping by ;
I marked the lofty beacon light
Stream from the church-tower, red ai d high—
A lurid mark and dread to see ;
And awsome bells they were to mee,
That in the dark rang ‘ Enderby.’
They rang the sailor lads to guide
From roofe to roofe who fearless rowed;
And I—my sonne was at my side,
And yet the ruddy beacon glowed ;
And yet he moaned beneath his breath,
‘ O come in life, or come in death
Olost! my love, Elizabeth.’
And didst thou visit him no more?
Thou didst, thou didst, my daughter deare ;
The waters laid thee at his doore,
Ere yet the early dawn was clear.
Thy pretty bairns in fast embrace,
The lifted sun shone on thy face
Downe drifted to thy dwelling-plaoe.
That flow strewed wrecks about the grass,
That ebbe swept out the flocks to sea ;
A fatal ebbe and flow, alas !
To manye more than myne and mee:
But each will mourn his own (she saith),
And sweeter woman ne’er drew breath
Than my sonne’s wife, Elizabeth.
I shall never hear her more
By the reedy Lindis shore,
‘ Cusha 1 Cusha 1 Cusha 1 ’ calling,
Ere the early dews be falling ;
I shall never hear her song,
‘ Cusha I Cusha 1 ’ all along
Where the sunny Lindis floweth,
Goeth, floweth ;
From the meads where melick groweth,
When the water winding down
Onward floweth to the town.
I shall never see her more
Where the reeds and rushes quiver,
Shiver, quiver ;
Stand beside the sobbing river,
Sobbing, throbbing, in its falling
To the sandy, lonesome shore ;
I shall never hear her calling,
Leave your meadow grasses mellow,
Mellow, mellow;
Quit your cowslips, cowslips yellow ;
Come uppe Whitefoot, come uppe Lighrfoot;
Quit y>our pipes of parsley hollow,
Hollow, hollow;
Come uppe Lightfoot, rise and follow;
Lightfoot, Whitefoot,
From your clovers lift the head ;
Come uppe Jetty, follow, follow,
Jetty, to the milking shed.
JEAN INGELOW.
An interesting little book of travel-notes by G. Flecker,
well illustrated by J. H. Chinner, shows what an Ade-
laide citizen can do when he likes. Mr. Flecker jour-
neyed over a considerable area of Europe last year, and
he has set down his impressions in a humorous narrative
which is excellent company for an idle hour.
* * * »
The firm of booksellers who purchased, for £219, 6000
•books from Sydney Free Library have thought it neces-
sary to state that only about 2000 were worth anything,
and 1012 of these brought £7O. As it isn’t stated what
the remainder brought, this information doesn’t help
things any. Even a statement of the profit on the whole
transaction wouldn’t help things much: it is a book-
seller’s business to buy as cheaply and sell as dearly as he
can. Explanation is wanted from the trustees, not from
the booksellers.
• * * i
‘ The bush songs of Australia ’ do not look a too hope-
ful field, but A. B. Paterson is out prospecting, and will
be glad if anybody who owns a bush song, or another
teilow’s bush song, will send it to him—words and
music. Generally speaking, the alleged bush songs that
reach ‘ The Bulletin ’ are merely bad verses relying on a
bad tune to ferry them over the river into popular
acceptance. When, some time ago, ‘The Queenslander’
attempted a collection, the resulting doggerel usually
fell down dead in the first verse, and it was all the
remaining verses could do (taking turns at the stretcher)
to carry it to the cemetery before it dropped to pieces—
so rapidly did decomposition follow. Anyway, one hopes
that ‘Ben Hall,’ with its lusty leg-iron swing, will be
counted a • bush song.’ There is a lot of moral mettle in
‘ D n your eyes 1 ’
* • * *
M.A.: Admit that there are white marks on the Uni-
versity blackness. Brennan, whose verses you praised,
flowered from Sydney Uni.; ditto another ‘Bulletin’
poet (and historian) ‘lshmael Dare’; ditto the olever
young Dr. G. E. Smith, whose results from brain-disseo*
tion are praised as the most important brought before the
recent Dublin Congress.
* * * *
The gentle art of running a newspaper has developed
surprisingly on ‘the rapid slope’ of California. ‘The
Argonaut’ relates how a ’Frisco man and woman recently
eloped ; how an evening newspaper, in order to have a
fresh item of news about the elopement, moved the local
Gimlet Society to arrest the parties ; how thereupon a
morning newspaper obtained possession of them, and put
them in lodgings where it could tap them for exclusive
news ; and how the evening paper then swore a warrant
against the morning paper’s representative for being
accessory to adultery 1 And all to make copy out of two
commonplace and rather squalid people 1 ‘ Amurrika is
a great nation. Yes, sir!'
* * * •
A great English booksellers’ battle is impending—the
battle of the discount syslem. In the Australian capitals
we are used to pay London issue-prices for our books ; in
the country towns the bookseller frequently adds sixpence
or ninepcnce more—whatever his buyers will stand. But
in London you buy a 6s. book for 4s. 6d., and even 4s. 3d.
Consequently the retailer di mands it from the wholesale
bookseller at 3s. 9d., or 3s. 6d., or as much less as he can
get it. But the publisher is rarely content to sell to the
wholesaler under 3s. or 3s. 3d., so the wholesale man, who
does a lot of work and takes a lot of risk, finds that no
joy is left in life, and no profit in literature. One big
Scotch firm recently calculated that they distributed
£4OOO worth of books without earning one bawbee to
put in the plate ; and no Scotch firm will stand that.
So there is a great movement to force the retailers to
oharge the public full rates, ‘ for the retailers’ own good.’
And the retailers can’t see it.
* • * *
Says‘The Saturday Review’—about the only English
literary journal which doesn’t more or less modify its
notices to suit the advertising publisher—‘The biography
of Sir Henry Parkes is among the books which have still
to be written. Mr. Lyne has given us a discursive, long-
drawn-out narrative, not without interest, but without
very much permanent value. . . . He has missed much
that was important; he has given much that could have
been spared with advantage ; and he evidently considers
whitewashing the first duty of a biographer.’
* * » *
A. Patchett Martin gave ‘ The British Australasian ’
a review of ‘ Australasian Literature, Art, Music, and the
Drama’during Queen Yic.’s reign—interesting enough,
but hopelessly out of touch and out of date. After twelve
months out of Australia, even an Australian ceases to
represent the current knowledge and opinion of his
country 7 ; and Martin, an Englishman to begin with,
has not seen Australia for fifteen years.
* * * *
‘J.W.R.’ writes deprecating strictures on Streeton :
*. . . The writer finds himself in the gallery. Pictures
that often have contented and pleased now seem colorless
insipidities. The soul is thirsty and oraves for a satisfy-
ing draught of inspiration. It comes at length like a
sudden flash of sunshine. There is a momentary pause
Of breath—and the soul drinks long and deep of inspiring
oolor till it almost reels. Here is not Nature surely 1 Yet
the brain expands, the thoughts flow as if one breathed
the very atmosphere of the picture. A subtle suggestion
hangs about it that is not in nature but in ourselves when
we dream about her. Here is Nature, then, raised to the
‘manth ’ power, clothed with his poetry, illuminated with
his thought. Is it Art? or is it a mere trick of imagina-
tion? The writer knows not, but sometimes he has felt
that Nature looked poor and weak after Streeton, and
might do well to copy him a little. He was not ever
thus. Workers in the dark places of earth find the sun-
light too strong at first for their unacoustomed eyes . . .*
etc.; but too muoh of this kind of thing is cloying. One
notioes with interest that the Streeton-worshipper burns
borrowed inoense—‘ Nature raised to the manth power ’
is a Bulletin phrase ; and Nature imitating Streeton is
an Osoar Wilde idea, not too deftly transplanted from the
essay on * The Decay of Lying.’
• • » •
These hieroglyphios represent the words—‘Five years
ago, or thereabouts, a settler near Wellington (M.L.)lost
a horse. He reported the fact to the police, and the
animal was put on the list of stolen property and ever
since then the authorities have looked for it at in-
tervals and never came any nearer to finding it—until
the other day ’—in ordinary phonography, and as
combined in phraseography by F. H. Cole, of Syd-
ney, an enthusiastic expert whose recent book on
phrasing is most suggestive and valuable. Mr. Cole,
in fact, is starting a revolt against the cast-iron
outlines of Isaac Pitman. The just-dead Isaac was
no shorthand-writer, but he was a shrewd old faddist
who built up by degrees the best shorthand system ex-
tant, gathering and assimilating ideas from all quarters,
and cheerfully taking to himself the credit of the whole.
And, as he grew older, Pitman erected his system into a
fetish ; he wanted everything done by rule and precept,
and preferred a beautiful outline to speed and theoretical
harmony to practical results. Now, just as every photo-
grapher knows that there are times when, if you want to
get a negative, you have to go right away from your de-
veloping formula, so every reporter knows that, if you want
a verbatim note, you must occasionally go right away
from the ‘ Phonographic Dictionary.’ And an outline
may be monstrous and ugly ; but if it is intelligible and
saves time, it is better for a verbatim man than the most
correctly-built outline which loses time by comparison.
But old Isaac, not being a shorthand-writer, could never
see this ; and in practice every reporter has had to make
his own phrase- grams, working from the Pitman basis.
Mr. Cole introduces one to a lot of phraseograms and
principles for making phraseograms which he has success-
fully tested in his own practice. He abolishes the down-
ward l and r; extends the doubling prineiple ; improves
the grammalogues; and is full of hints on desirable con-
tractions and omissions. The changes from the current
system are radical; but, for the purpose of verbatim re-
porting, most of them seem thoroughly well justified,
though allowance must be made for every writer’s idio-
syncrasy.
» * » •
‘The Philistine,’ a New York publication, tells a little
fairy-tale about how once upon a time, on a tired old
planet, there lived men who Did Things. They were
reckoned a good enough sort, but not up to the men who
Wrote Things, describing bow the other fellows Did
Things. Presently there came a third class, who wrote
about the writings of the men who wrote about the men
who Did Things. And when by-and-by there was dis-
covered a man who wrote only about the men who wrote
about the writers-about-things, a happy planet declared
him to be its chief Critic and Greatest Man.
« * * •
You cannot get more into, or out of, a pint-pot than a
pint; and the British citizen’s cash and energy were so
exhausted by Queen Yic.’s Jubilee that he has had little
left to buy b'oks. Consequently, the London literary
spring was full of frost. Many books fell flat; many were
despondently held over ; and average authors are still
glum at the prospect of an overstocked autumn market.
Perhaps four-fifths of British books are issued in spring
and autumn : to publish in summer or winter means, for
most classes of literature, poor sales—and no one knows
why exactly.
LOST AT SEA.
The face that Carlo Dolci drew
Looks down from out its leafy hood—
The holly berries, gleaming through
The painted leaves, seem drops of blood.
Above the cornice, round the hearth,
Are evergreens and spruce-tree boughs ;
’Tis Christmas morning: Christmas mirth
And joyous voioesflll the house.
I pause, and know not what to do ;
I feel reproach that I am glad:
Until to-day, no thought of you,
O Comrade 1 ever made me sad.
And now the thought of your blithe heart,
Your ringing laugh, can give me pain,
Knowing that we are worlds apart,
Not knowing we shall meet again.
For all is dark that lies in store :
Though they may preach, the brotherhood.
We know just this, and nothing more,
That we are dust, and God is good.
What life begins when death makes end'-f
Sleek gownsmen, is ’t so very clear?
How fares it with us?—O, my Friend,
I only know you are not here 1
That I am in a warm, light room,
With life and love to comfort me,
While you are drifting through the gloom,
Beneath the sea, beneath the sea!
O wild, green waves that lash the sands
Of Santiago and beyond,
Lift him, I pray, with gentle hands,
And bear him on—true heart and fond 1
To some still grotto far below
The washings of the warm Gulf Stream
Bear him, and let the winds that blow
About the world not break his dream I
—I smooth my brow. Upon the stair
I hear my children shout in glee,
With sparkling eyes and floating hair,
Bringing a Christmas wreath for me.
Their joy, like sunshine deep and broad,
Falls on my heart, and makes me glad:
I think the face of our dear Lord
Looks down on them, and seems not sad.
Thomas Bailey Aldrich


Medical.
pB. FREEMAN.
r-S
that this noted specialist
ore-eminently at the head of the medical
Session is no longer a question of doubt. That
Kas investigated further into the mysteries of
rf. and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
!?:’ his auiTe worthy but less successful associates,
now acknowledged by all. His experience is
lifelong, and his record right here in SYDNEY
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst-sts.,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to day who are praising his name, because he has
made their lives happy and brought sunshine into
their homes.
TIIIHG HEX.
if you are troubled with
vital losses, exhaust-
ing complaints, pimples,
bashfulness, aversion to society, stupidness, des-
pondency, loss of energy, ambition and self-coufld-
enoe, which deprive you of your manhood and
Absolutely unfit you for study, business, or
narriage—if you are thus afflicted you know the
cause. Get well and be a man.
MIDDLE-AGED & OLD Ml
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
achine backs and kidneys, and other unmistakable
siens of nervous debility and premature decay
Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the cause.
The most obstinate cases of this character treated
with unfailing success.
31H1I1J
Diseases Inflammations, Strio-
tures, Weakness of Organs, Hy-
drocele, Varicocele ana kindred
troubled quickly cured without pain and detention
from business.
mfliE.
By this means you can describe your
troubles to the doctor if living away
from the city and unable to come to his
office,” Treatment in this manner always satisfactory.
Write for Dr. FREEMAN’S valuable treatise, NER-
VOUS AND PRIVATE DISEASES, post free on ap-
plication. A perusal of it might save much mental
and physical suffering, and add golden years to your
life. Send £1 by post, and you will receive treat-
ment by return mail.
DR- FREEMAN,
Comer Elizabeth & Bathurst-sts., Sydney.
OORRESPONDBNCH P.O. BOX, 1359.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Or.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
29 York Street* Sydney.
BOX 920.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
~ and the New Discoveries ol
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
'TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADIES!
YOU have your troubles ; but, no matter what
they are, a SURE REMEDY can be found
on your applying either personally or by letter to
DR. LEONARD,
Fee, 10/-.
ppropriate Medicine
by Return Post.
127 Red fern Street,
REDFERN.
(C
: 99
A Boro Pby^kiaO
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
i» an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
»by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young- men, his success has been almost invariable,
troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
aavance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
n . e y anri heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
Surgeon Langston's Electric Quadrant
. houhle compress, price £2. Constitutional or
quired weaknesses treated successfully.
is free to all, but where £1 is
„?.' osec - ca ieful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
JTT' late me< tf°ines sent. Before confiding your case
consult the old and successful Specialist,
„„ LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
“ MJT re ® u hering. New edition of my latest work,
to ha -S a rl n Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
n sioo,?-' , The only Qualified Surgeon practising aa
peeialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
1M BNTION
Turn Paphr.
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
20 York
WYNYaRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and , t 0
whole nervous and muscular systems, and bunas up
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient nnas
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the fonner sufferer finds himsell
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
AtiLi CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, _ Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
29 York-st, Wynyard-sq..;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
-JOHN mXKftWTS
riHra^teflarßoK.
full directions
enclosed! '
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
Eacket. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
tamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
rpo LADIES OF ALL AGES.
ORANGE LILY
Is the only authenticated CURE for DISEASES peculiar
to Women. Simple, sure, and inexpensive.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Extracts of a few published
daily. Originals may be seen on application to
26 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY
Sydney, May 19th, 1897.—1 hasten to thank you and tell
you what a splendid treatment I have found it; am now
quite well. Three months ago I tried it as a last resource,
dreading an operation, which I have avoided.—M. J.R.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so muoh Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
R iCORD’s
tSBfc* Cfc< * U? £ -
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century wi tf '« n^ a ! leled
and unprecedented success throuffhout-the world.
n- p,-. Vnxen.ee, of Life restores Health ana
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important dements of the human frame.
Tn cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for Jis. Freight
Jtra Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
~AgZsfor Amtralasia-Perry A Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE. ,
Agents for N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul & Co.. Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Publications, etc.
"looks. books. books.
NEW UP-TO-DATE PUBLICATIONS.
Her Natural Life (illustrated) Before and Behind the
Scenes. Post free, Is. . _ . , _
Anglo- Australi an Publishing Co.,
106 Oastlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
655 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbouene.
Unproved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly hound in cloth and gold, 1/A
post free.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-situated
Electrical & Consulting Rooms
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-cpialified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
Private, Nervous and Skin Diseases.
He has, by diligent research, investigated _ their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position m his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that afiEects the human frame.
'Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness _ after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, w.c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WORK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
X 3 E B X Xj I T Y ,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, DO NOT DELAY,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
dr. gibbons
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send post
free the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A Permanent Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. Gibbons,
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
Tie Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT MOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe 014 Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
w permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our t
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don i t
despair even if in the last stages. Don t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
6 Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on reoeipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Booms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the winters
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes “ I can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that, your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse 1 in fact lost all hope of. ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. 1 shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five yeare I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention; in fact, was a. nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
elad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and wnte this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and. through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as 1 took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,' and I am thankful I took his
advioe, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever 1 was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me."
REMARKABLE CURE OP DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITOHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes;
«• Gentlemen, —I cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man onc6tnor6,aTi& the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
idl hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years’ treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make wha»
ever use you like of this."
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes “ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over £2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like 1 was, and those that read this and will take
mv advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
II a BUNDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
Fi


TATTERSALL’S
w MONSTER PRIZE LIST. -w
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
METROPOLITAN S. Sept. 14.
50,000 Subsoribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above
Name
Address
DEMONSTRATION H. Oct. 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
PATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address
..shares in the above.
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 16.
100,000 Sutj scrilj era at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address.
MELBOURNE C. November 2.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
T atter sail’s Great Distribution
—OP THE —
Millbank Estate, Junee, N.S.W.
116,000 Shares at £1 Each List Closes 25th September. 116,000 Stares at£l Each
Ist Prize —Millbank Homestead, 2013 acres, Junee ...
2nd ~ Empire Hotel, Temora
3rd ~ Albion Hotel, Cootamundra
4th „ Large. Premises adjoining Albion Hotel, including
Assembly Hall, etc.
stn ~ 286 Acres Land at Junee (Racecourse)
6th ~ Union Club Hotel, Junee
valued at £10,065
valued at 8,100
valued at 8,000
valued at 4,000
valued at 4,000
valued at 3,550
and 109 other Prizes, ranging from £3150 down to £3O.
Let at rental of
£520 p.a.
480 p.a.
150 p.a.
208 p.a.
Should the Distribution fill, the Drawer of the First Prize will have the option of taking the
Cash equivalent, of £10,065. For full particulars, see Prospectus.
Homestead, or
Tattersall’s Second Distribution
—OF —
City ai>d SCibGrbai)
Freehold - Properties.
Shares of ss* Each*
List Closes 4th October.
Ist Prize.—Terrace Houses, Glenmore
Road, and large Dwelling-House, Value
Woollahra £8,500
2nd Prize. House and Land, Hunter’s
Hill, and Shop and two Houses,
Cleveland-street ... ... ... £5,000
112 Other Prizes ranging from £1,500 down to £2O.
For full particulars apply for Prospectus.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars


All Sorts Suited
Perhaps you are one who only thinks of the
UTILITIES, one who eschews everything but
what is strictly necessary. You’ve a penchant
for FLANNELS, but have a DERRY on SILKS,
and when there’s HOMESPUN about you can’t
see the occasion for bothering about PLUSH and
VELVET. Simple and good is your motto ;
you’re almost a Quaker, though not quite, and
you’d rather see your money in the bank than on
your back, and dividends are better, say you, than
Ribbons and Laces. Well, have your own way.
We provide for all sorts and sizes.
Or perhaps you are of another class. A world-
ling, if you will, floating down the stream of life,
with “youth at the prow and pleasure at the
helm,” you want to dress well and to look well.
The eyes of the fair are upon you, and you would
win their smiles. You want Clothes and Hats
and Boots, Gloves you must have, and a thousand
other things you crave for. Rings, Lockets,
Gems, exquisite Neckties, Shirts galore, good
CIGARS, and TOBACCO of the best. You’d
like them all, wouldn’t you ? You can have them,
sir, at our store for what is, when compared to
what other stores are asking, a mere song.
CALL—or, if you live in the country, WRITE.
CLOSE -ONE-SATURDAYS.
Anthony Hordern &jj ons,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
HAYMARKET (ORLY).
M SUFFER LONGER
WITH THAT
COLD, COUCH,
SORE THROAT?
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
< Has a record of nearly 60 years
i in curing affections of the Throat
? and Lungs, Colds, Coughs, La
) Grippe, and Pneumonia. Pleas-
/ ant to take, sure to cure.
Ayers Cherry Pectoral
Gold Medals at the World’s Great Expositions.
Accept no Cheap and Worthless Substitute.
Ov A NOVELTY!
AIL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS'
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
natural perfumes.
■ x Obtainable of Chemists, A ,
yt Stores, Perfumers, V 5
or direct from '
mm
**-*-‘1 f maiAttntatM
The Blake Pump
(SINGLE 08, DUPLEX)
IS THE STANDARD
DIRECT-ACTIRG PUMP.
The Sole Agents in Australia :
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY;
435 BOUKKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Have LARGE STOCKS of these Celebrated
PUMPS for all possible Pumping Purposes.
Piping and Pumping Supplies a Speciality,
p€AFNESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and PERFECT HEARING RESTORED. Comfort-
able to wear and Invisible. Illustrated Book of
Proofs and Testimonials sealed, 2 stamps. A. M. NAST,
146 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
WasbiQgtoQ H.SoOI &Co.,m’sp.s.,
CERTAINLY
CAN sell all varied stocks cheaper than most folk.
BECAUSE they have a large connection,
are long established,
are thoroughly reliable,
and their goods are at all times the BEST.
A. SOYER’S BAKING POWDER, 6d. per tin, is a beau ideal article.
SPARTAN TONIC, 2s. 6d. and 4s. per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2s. 3d.
DENTAROMA for the TEETH and BREATH, Is. 6d. per bottle.
Dr. ERASMUS WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, Is. COUGH LINCTUS, Is.
Trusses, Surgical Bandages, etc., a Speciality.
. . Hard Times do not count with us. We run no half premises. . .
You will find us at
158, 160 and 268 Pitt Street, Sydney,
AND AT
Church and Phillip Streets, Parramatta.
Write to us for quotations.
Specially
prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE'S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion In the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird's
Bianc-Mange Powders, from all the leading
Wholesale Houses.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. . .
PIANOS by HAAKE, FRANZ WEMER, HOLLING and SPANGENBERG.
* ORGANS by STORY & CLARK ORGAN CO.
BRASS BAND INSTRUMENTS by Reynolds & Co. CORNETS from £2 2s. each.
BESSON’S “PROTOTYPE” BAND INSTRUMENTS, the Finest in the World
(Sole Agent for Victoria, Tasmania, South and West Australia).
VIOLINS for Connoisseurs, by W. E. Hill & Sons and J. B. Colin. ACCORDEONS by all
Makers. CONCERTINAS, both German and English. VIOLIN STRINGS of the best quality;
genuine Neapolitan Tested Strings. BANJOS by S. S. Stewart, from £3 3s. each.
g MOUTH HARMONICAS in LATEST STYLES.
Goods Forwarded to any part of Australia. Storekeepers and the Trade Supplied.
A. P. SYKES,
DIRECT IMPORTER,
227 Lit,tie Collins Street,
MELBOXJFtKTE.
DEI very Variety of
TEA ?
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
Ateherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
t3T SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH. V&
Plum
Plum
GENTLEMEM who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure am easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Iwo Years.
t, . I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price |gj n g] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® m beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland, and Tasmania, is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
GOODWILL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds ot Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given ar
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, .and ca .’F e siur
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Given ain .
Proprietors: QOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENO. avnN p Y
Sole Ascents tor New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
Bards of the Backhlocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE LAND OF DUMB DESPAIR.
(Introductory Verses to Barcroft Boake’s Poems,
just published.)
Beyond where farthest drought-fires burn,
By hand of Fate it once befell,
I reached the realm of No-Return
That meets the March of Hell.
A silence crueller than Death
Laid fetters on the fateful air ;
She holds no hope : she fights for breath*
The Land of Dumb Despair !
Here fill their glasses, red as blood,
The victims of fell Fortune’s frown ;
They drink their wine as brave men should
And fling the goblets down.
They crowd the board, red wreaths of rose
Across their foreheads drooped and curled,
But in their eyes the gloom that knows
The grief of all the world.
The poison lies behind their wine
So close, the trembling hands that take
Might well be doubted to divine
Which draught such thirst would slake.
The bows beside their hands are strung;
The blue steel glitters, bare of sheath ;
’Tis wonder tired Life drags among
So many ways to Death !
They may not whisper, one to one,
The stories of their fancied fall :
The words that ring beneath the sun
Would faint in such a pall.
In silence, man by man, they reach
For cup, for arrow, or for sword,
And still the grey world fills the breach
Each leaves beside the board.
N.S.W.
W. H. OG[?]VIE.
BALLADE OF CHANCE.
The rush through the scrub tears a pad,
Branches twist in a strap or a rein,
A slip means a smash that is bad ;
To make surer is oftentimes vain.
A halt, just a last breath to gain.
Or a look that is more than a glance,
May mean skull-cracks and clots on the brain
The winner must hazard his chance.
The mind of a lover is mad
If he harken when Fear cries “ Refrain ! ”
And the grey after-days will be sad,
Sad greyness of mist and of rain.
If he seek to unravel the skein
That the Fates weave apace in their dance :
Seek her ear—’tis a way that is plain—
The winner must hazard his chance.
The heart of a man or a lad
May shrivel in scorchings of pain,
May swell, not with pride, and be glad
In the facing of toilings that dram
Red blood from the beat of the vein,
Like the stab of a knife or a lance,
But the luck will not changeless remain—
The winner must hazard his chance.
ENVOY.
Men, cease striving spilt milk to regain,
Cease to measure the risk in advance ;
For, to win and to hold—in the main,
The winner must hazard his chance.
N.S.W.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
SHIFTING SAND.
Do you see that post a-sticking in the sand ?
Just the point of it a-poking thro’ the sand ?
Me and Madge put in that fence.
Yes ! We should have had more sense !
We was young, you see, and didn’t understand.
Twenty years come next November we began;
There was nothing here but scrub when we began —
Sold the farm on “Dingo Flat,”
And put all we had in that !
Into blasted shifting sand and “ Take-all pan.”
This here paddick—which? Why where you’re
standing now
(Oh ! it was one, tho’ you wouldn’t think so mo. !)
Well, we grubbed it, nice and neat,
And we put it in with wheat;
And we didn’t reap enough to feed the cow !
In the early spring the sand began to shift —
In a “ Norther ” have you ever seen it shift ?
Well, it all went in a night,
Not a blade was left in sight
When we come to look next morning at the drift!
Round the back there, by them stunted popp r-
trees;
Hardly anything will live here but them trees.
Madge is lying there, asleep,
With the sand above her, deep :
Deep and loose enough to sink you to the knees !
Many other things are buried on the land,
Things you can’t get back from any kind of laud,
Youth and hope, and tears and sweat,
Wasted work and vain regret,
In the sneaking, creeping, greedy, shifting sai ' !
C.H.
THE DIRGE OF [?] DEAD-BEAT.
Wots the use of tram pm round
An’ wearin’ out yer boots ?
Wot’s the use of spoilin’ hats,
And ruinin’ yer soots ?
I’ve only got a shirt and pants,
A pair of boots —no socks—
And when I’ve worn that soot away
I’m fairly on the rocks.
And so I seek the friendly shade
The Hyde Park fig-trees throw,
And layin’ on me stummick there
I sleep away me woe.
At least, I do me best to sleep—
For it’s a toughish job
When belly’s empty, barrin’ wind,
And ev’ry breath a sob.
But I have starved upon “ the track
When trampin’ with me swag—
I’ve had a taste of Hell “ out back ”
Before I struck this snag.
And so, I guess, I’ll jog along
Till “ Heaven sets me free ”; —
Tho’ what the d Mice I’m livin’ for,
’S a thing that puzzles me.
If I’d a swag I’d tramp again,
And cadge around the runs ;
And maybe die upon the plains—
The home of blood-red suns.
And p’r’aps a backblocks bard would serve
My endin’ up in verse ;
While, dyin’ here, I’d only get
A grim poetio curse.
ULOOLA.


Australia* Wttial
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ICl€ IJ W I ljf ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR 1
Oirectore-TheHomS l !- J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputv-Chairman ;
. „ P .?.. ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
, ••• Kxceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Th na * Vccumulated Funds ... ... Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
e CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797,
. yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
a - ea<i Office : 87 3? IT T STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTEL ■ ■
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
1 rams, &c. 5 has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night—advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES:
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ALL
CLASSES
OP
accommodation
—FOR—
TOURISTS,
Commercial . . .
. . . Travellers,
Theatricals, Families,
&c., &c.
ROOMS, 2s. to 10s. per Night.
FULL BOARD, 30s. to £3 3s. per Week.
Special Terms Families & Large Parties.
MELBOURNE
FcdcralX
Palace\
Hotel
MELBOURNE.
Largest Hotel in
Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATIONS
and STEAMERS.
Trams pass Door.
WRITE FOR
CARDS OF
TARIFFS
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Bold, Silver, [ead $ Copper [res products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING PT.AST ’PTT'P'M a ran
SULPHUR IO ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING’, BULLION REFTNmp ME . LTING ’
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemoee, Metallurgist, late of
situation of the works being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the * f °n
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of P oreS ° f aU
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutpai, Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Spring aiXxcS. Summer Suiting
SUITS.
45s to 90s.
TROUSERS.
12s 6d to 255.
For ELEGANCE OF STYLE, FIT and WOEKMANSHIP,
The EOIIOOII $ mBCBOURfIB Tailoring (Jog.
. . STAND TTOB.TV4T.TPn.
Send for Patterns.
STAND UNEIYALLED!
31 Erskine Street, SYDNEY.
All Goods delivered Free to any part of the colony.
S ”• BAUMASHE. Manager.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, with Silver Dash Rail, Two Lamps
complete, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; BUCK-BOARD BUGGIES
£lll7s. 6d.
DOUBLE-SEATED BUGGIES, £2O: DOUBLE
BUGGY HARNESS, 995.
WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, best quality, 70s. ; Ordinary Saddles, 395. 6d.
H
• NILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer Sc Importer of Saddlery, Vehicles Sc Bicycles.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
these have English Dunlop and M. and W. Tvres The bcreleseason ? N SYDNEY. The whole of
Buyers should apply early as these goods cannot be bought again for the ,n ’ S ° Who,esale and Retail
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH EJiOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
Dr. s. lever,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
THE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teetli Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Pridf/en’Of'Jc.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS,
we guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
now difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
03 Kiixg-at., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2016.
<*rinj€ & Styitf),
Ladies’ & Gents’ Hairdressers,
113 King Street
(between George & Pitt Sts.).
SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality
(newest design), from 10/6
Best English Hair Tails from 6/6
to 76/
Wigs, Toupets, etc., made to
order at lowest quotations.
Ladies’ Combings made up in
any style. (Postage paid to all
parts of the colonies.)
For Reviving the Liver and Brain
AND RESTORING VIGOR.
OH, WHAT A DIFFERENCE IN THE MORNING ! "
AFTER “A NIGHT OUT,”
—DRINK—
Fisher & Co.’s
FAMOUS ‘ KOLA NUT" TONIC,
The GREATEST “ PICK-ME-UP ” AND
APPETISER in the World.
IT MAKES YOU EAT & MAKES YOU STRONG.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, 6d. per Glass
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle. (Ask for, and have
no other than Fisher and Co.'s). Also at all
Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
PHARMACY, 337 Ceorge Street
(Nearly opposite General Post Office), SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Public Companies.
INSURE WITH AN
AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
—THE —
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Offices : 95 Pitt St., Sydney,
Chairman: The Hon. John See, M.P.
Victorian Branch :
Empire Buildings, 410 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
ALL FUNDS INVESTED IN AUSTRALIA.
rates lowest. security undoubted.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
Losses Paid in 19 Years - £130,000
INSURERS SHARE in Profits Annually
under the MUTUAL BONUS PLAN
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS,
The CASH BONUS of 20 per cent, on pre-
miums for the year 1896—divided with Policy-
holders—is now payable on renewal of policies
making .£97,763 divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Tire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street* Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
THR->
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society, ltd.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; ‘ Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
(Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manag-er for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. ELDRIDG-E & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Toi)S n>ore I ri)ported Leaf
tbao all the other Tobacco
Factories PCit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality of Dixson’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yankee Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cbaropioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Coi)qti?ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
CcQtefyQial.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Dark Plug and Twist.
(lmported). The Club Favorite Monouole
5 QI Rothschilds. ’
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 18.—No. 917.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1897.
Prior, 6d
The Government on Saturday afforded*®* dele-
gates an opportunity to- visit the Hawtesbury
CoUege, at it le Pm and. - / / y
___ = 3^ ss r* e^K^
;
T <saict Rial's
"h?/ 'fif 11)% Saf^Urcs.
J Killed 7^ cL <smfTo^
r 7 in iii//v//// \n\\
* Lpon arrival at the college the visitors were \
shov/ja the various departments, and the chief v
points About butter matting weVe pxpl-ained, in-
clud-ihg the method
4j'^>
After dinner, which was served in the ttiping-
room at the college, a few toasts were proposed.
" Xancfshifftr -7
wt&WsT&Z
f 7?eic( Aas /os'* ,
*>%#£s% *A*
Jfa net■ "*$ r?
>**:%,filly, »*&
> Country
I 6/nfV-
( fck* * n StaV k
s> 7V
Ex- feiFQATE
- (ohii'tre Federation ot]ce. \r)lf)tcnr —
/\t)' a pity if (s as if didt)'/ Stop %rC
hlotwiftj banket's at]’picnics aij’ fuqchoqs hk-e tfjose
Federation is H-l We 9if 19 yer Fogr 1
4i
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Austral Inns."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bid lkttn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6) 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 I’’ 6
Quarterly ... ...' ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
•which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
•week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confident ial.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
apply ing to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<5c Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal -.—The Stan-
dard and Diggers News Co., Limited, Johannesburg.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <Sc Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. A ustralia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£1, ivith 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £1, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— l£d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1897.
Premier Reid’s Jubilee.
Last week the mail-boat brought New South
Wales’ fat and smiling Scotch optimist back
to his adopted country. Over eighteen stone
of cheerful meat heaved itself ashore at Cir-
cular Quay, Sydney, and a vast smile, and
two short, undignified legs bowed down by a
great burden, announced that the Fosco of
cornstalk politics was again at his post. The
name is not applied to Premier Reid by way
of any reflection on his character ; it is in
the ghastly vitality of the cheerful politi-
cian, and his tremendous circumference, and
his yearning for sweets and cream-tarts, and
the kittenish mirthfulness which assorts so
strangely with his flesh and his mature years,
that the resemblance between him and
Wilkie Collins’ festive Italian mostly lies.
Premier Reid returned to resume possession
of the eye-glass which has proved such a
misfit on Sunday Brunker’s vacant coun-
tenance,* where it "looked like a circular
fortification in a desert, and to take over the
frayed cigar which that shocked person had
been keeping alight for him with painful
results to his own stomach, and almost every-
body was glad to see him return. But then
almost everybody would be glad to see
almost anybody return after a prolonged
spell of Sunday Brunker ; that weary
person belongs to the class whose chief pur-
pose in life is to show how much worse the
other fellow might be if he tried.
♦ * * *
Premier Reid, apparently, has learned
very little in his absence. He went away
after cordially assuring a large public meet-
ing that he would never accept a title in his
sane moments, and he comes back with his
gewgaw hanging on the globular front part
of him, quite unabashed. He returns to
find his third deficit awaiting him, and his
Land and Income Tax stranded on the rocks
in a very absurd fashion ; and he hasn’t se-
cured the royal assent to his Aliens Exclusion
Bill, which was the sole ostensible object of
his visit to England. And within 24 hours
of his arrival he was cheerfully telling to ad-
miring press-interviewers the old, dismal
tarradiddle about how he had never yet had
a deficit, while the State Statistician’s figures
set forth distinctly that he never had any-
thing else. Also G. H. Reid has apparently
returned a more confirmed Freetrader than
ever, which, in the case of a man who raises
£1,300,000 a year in Customs duties, is not
saying so very much after all. His renewed
convictions, he alleges, are not based in any
way on the adulation he received in Britain
from mercantile persons who want the ports
of N.S.W. kept open for their profit, or on
the glamor of free victuals and drinks, but
on observation and unbiassed enquiry :
I had heard so much of the ruin and disaster which had
fallen upon the people of Great Britain in these latter
days by various mercantile methods of competition, that
I had some misgiving; that the strength of my admiration
for the mother country would be tinged by sights which
would sadden me, and would be alloyed by fears which
would press upon me, from things that I would see of the
coming decline of Great Britain. But I rejoice to tell you
that I saw no such signs. On that memorable day when
the population of London was drawn out of its homes—
not only the homes of West End, not only amongst
localities where wealth abounds, but down in the humblest
parts of the East End, as I saw mile upon mile of those
human faces, there were no signs of decay. In the East
End of London—the poor and suffering end of the city—
and unhappily there is suffering in all great cities—where
you see the streets, pavements, windows, and the roofs
thronged with Englishmen of all classes, old and young—
along these miles of human countenances, I saw no traces
of decay. I saw no dark cloud which seemed to tell you
that the end of the might of Britain was at hand.
The greatest pleasure of my visit to the mother country
was to see that little spot of earth with its 40,000,000
human beings to support. Looking upon the fact that
the people of that little spot of earth have all their doors
and all their ports thrown open, and that instead of haste
being made to close them, I have had to go all around
amongst the mighty nations of the earth to see them
piling up higher the barricades against the invincible
Englishman. Well, I said to myself, that if this little
spot of earth, with its 40,000,000 of people, and the
“ curse of freedom,” can look as they look to-day, I don’t
fear for the comfort and prosperity of the 1,400,000 people
of New South Wales, settled on a territory as large as
England and France combined.
• • • •
The above is Premier Reid’s version of the
glories of England under Freetrade. The
following is another version, by Miss Suther-
land, the Melbourne philanthropist, a lady
who has never been in politics and who has
no political party to boost up. It is the story
told by her in London Daily News of how
the back streets and alleys of London looked
in the Jubilee time, as distinguished from
Premier Reid’s view of things from the front
thoroughfares :
“ I have read many books about the misery of London,
but what I have myself seen is much worse than any
description I have ever read. London has haunted me
ever since I set foot in it. It has oppressed me like a
nightmare. For nights I could not sleep thinking of the
millions of people herded together in houses not fit for
dogs, and with no future before them but the workhouse.
In the colonies there is hope; here I can see none for
these people. I have visited your workhouses. They are
a disgrace. It is horrible to think of you compelling the
honest working man who, through no fault of his own,
may be forced to enter the poorhouse, to associate with
the vicious and the criminal. That seems to me to be a
nearer approach to hell upon earth than anything I have
ever known.”
“ But surely you have not seen the agencies which are
working for the amelioration of the condition of the
people ? ”
“Yes, I have seen them. They do good work, no doubt;
but what are they among so many ? What can they do?
I have talked with many of your city missionaries. I have
seen them distributing tracts ; but that does not help the
people. Your churches are not full, and seem to have
lost touch with the masses of the people. Everywhere
you turn you are confronted with vested interests. You
are hampered on every side when you wish to reform any
evil. Your utmost efforts seem to me only to mitigate
the evils so far as to prevent the whole community going
to absolute ruin. They only touch the outside of the evil.
No, I see no hope for you at all. The problem is too vast
and too intricate. Ever since I have been in London I
have not been able to get the fate of Sodom out of my
head. Nothing short of a consuming fire from heaven,
which will wipe London off the face of the earth, will do
any good. I have walked through your streets and your
slums, and seen them swarming with children as thick as
bees in a hive. I have visited the houses where these
children and their parents live. I have asked myself
what future can these children have to look forward to.
There is nothing for them but the same miserable exist-
ence in which they have been born and bred. For the
men I do not care, but it is. terrible to think of the fate
of the women and children. The people have not the
same spirit of liberty and freedom that you can see in our
people’s faces. Our men are a much finer race in every
way. The people here are not properly fed, and do not
seem to be as well-to-do as ours. I have been making
investigations everywhere in London to see what the food
is like. I find everything is extremely dear. In Victoria
a working man can get a very good meal for 4d. Here I
find I have to pay at least a shilling before I can begin to
get anything like the same meal. " Another thing which
struck me was your Sunday. I have spent Sunday in the
East End, in the North and in the West End. But Sun-
day does not exist in London.”
» * * »
The Bulletin puts these two narratives
side by side., The one is the tale of a fat
lawyer whose veracity has already met with
a large number of awkward experiences. He
is the head of the Freetrade party in New
South Wales, and his position, his political
consequence, his seat in Parliament, his
salary of £1370 a year, his daily crust and
cheese—for George Reid was a very mode-
rate lawyer all his life, and he has now virtu-
ally dropped out of practice and lives mostly
upon politics—depend upon his adherence to
and continual boosting up of Freetrade. He
went to the only country of any note (for
Scandinavia, Turkey and China hardly count)
which has adopted anything resembling a
Freetrade policy, and when he came back
and had resumed the dignity which the
temporary saint had been holding in his
absence, he was put up on a platform to tell
his experiences. Then he had either to say
that the condition of the British people
proved Freetrade to be a success, and keep
his £1370 a year —or that their condition
proved it to be a failure, and that he
felt constrained, as an honest man, to
hand over his portfolio to ox-merchant
Brunker and be a Freetrade Premier
no longer, and go back to defend the pre-
carious horse-thief at the bar as he did before
the day of his greatness. And what he says
is simply that on the J übilee day, along the
carefully-selected route of the Jubilee pro-
cession, when the police and soldiers were
keeping order and everything was in its
holiday attire, he saw nothing to change his
political views. And nobody seriously ex-
pected that he would see anything at such a
place or at such a time.
* • * m
The other witness is a lady who has spent
many years in practical philanthropy among
the slums and bye-ways of Melbourne. She
has never been associated with any kind of
politics, and has no large official salary at
stake to warp her views. Also, she did not
view London from the windows of the Hotel
Cecil, or from a royal carriage in the Jubilee
procession, or through the rose-tints of the
gratis wines supplied at public banquets ;
nor did she get her impressions from the
whoops of those British merchants who told
George Reid, of their own necessity, that
Freetrade was good because it keeps New
South Wales open for the profitable export
of their merchandise. She studied the slums
of London just as she formerly did those of
Melbourne, and her report is that the great
Freetrade city is a place so gruesome
in its poverty and hopelessness and
utter destitution that it had better be wiped
out as a horror that is past all human
remedy. And, considering that London is a
city where between one-sixth and one-fifth
of the houses contain only one room, and
where one-fifth of the people live more than
two in a room—in other words, where they
have less than half an apartment each to
serve all purposes, and that it is the capital
of a country where over 1,040,000 of the
people are paupers, in receipt of charitable
aid, Miss Sutherland’s view has some solid
evidence to back it.
* • * *
Of course, neither story is absolutely de-
finite evidence on the fiscal question ; joy
and sorrow and happiness and misery and
life and death don’t arise solely from
tariffs, though George Reid implies
that they do. A Protectionist country
may be utterly wretched through misgovern-
ment ; a Freetrade country may be well-
governed and reasonably prosperous. Free-
trade may be suitable to one country without
that fact proving that it is at all suited to
another in totally different circumstances,
any more than the fact that the palm-tree
grows on the Gold Coast is any evidence that
it will grow in John Bull’s back-yard.
There may be unlimited misery without a
casual fat man, who surveys the West End
of London for a few weeks through an
eye-glass, recognising the fact, espe-
cially if he gets £1370 a year for
feeling sure that misery in a Freetrade
country is impossible. There is unlimited
woe in Sydney which George Reid has never
seen, simply because no one ever saw his
jovial corporation pervading the melancholy
wastes of Botany and Alexandria and Water-
loo and Pyrmont and Redfern, and the other
cheap places where distress congregates.
Nobody—not even the author of those grue-
some articles on the “ White Slaves of Eng-
land,” whose publication in Pearson’s Maga-
zine recently shook up the complacency of
John Bull himself—expected that London
would look otherwise than cheerful on J übilee
day. If the greatest empire on earth couldn’t
raise sufficient good clothes and respectability
once in 60 years, to line a very few miles of
street at that well-ordered ceremony, then
France the day before the Revolution wouldn’t
be a circumstance to it. And even the joy-
ous aspect of things which did exist wants
to be supported by better evidence. The
man of constant deficits who says that he
has always had a surplus is an individual
whose capacity for assertion is simply in-
credible.
His Honor and—Her Honor.
ls a Judge’s criticism desirable in any criminal
case which turns upon questions of sexual
temptation ? Can the horse-haired figureheads
of social purity, swelled by the mock reverence
of an insincere Bar, express in a reasonable way
the sentiment that should direct juries to a fair
verdict in such cases ? Does the potentate on
the bench speak as a wise man, versed in the
natural philosophy of fleshly lust, or is he, by
force of circumstances, an unconscious hypo-
crite, preaching a morality far in advance of
the times? The ascetic-looking Judge Hodges
—once a curate, by the way—who sometimes
figures as a professional purist off the bench,
has lately presided at the Melb. Criminal
Court trials of two men charged with despoiling
female virtue, and in each instance the prisoner
has been acquitted, despite an adverse sum-
ming-up.
* * * *
The first case was that of Gillespie Douglas,
a Sunday-school teacher, accused of improper
intimacy with a damsel too young to legally
consent. The girl was only two months short
of the protected-age limit, and the evidence
showed her to be a very viciously-disposed
virgin up to the time of her alleged “ betrayal.”
She confessed to conduct which was practically
tantamount to solicitation of the prisoner. She
had appealed to his Sunday-school passions
w’ith a list of shockingly-indecent conundrums.
She had written letters hinting at her willing-
ness to fall whenever her sanctimonious friend
might feel disposed to have her for a victim.
The one thing certain in this case was the
hideous absurdity of prosecuting any man—
putting him behind the spikes—for improper
intimacy with this lewd-minded female of 15
10-12 years. A Sunday-school teacher is not
legally bound to be colder than Joseph of
Canaan. His profession of “absolute purity”
may seem contemptible to the average worldling,
but it is part of the canting system under
which he enlists as “a soldier of Heaven,”
or whatever he choose to call himself,
and it doesn’t cut him off from the sym-
pathy due to ordinary sinners. Gillespie
Douglas denied persistently that he had
yielded to the girl’s temptation beyond the point
of Kerristian endearments, and the jury either
believed his denial or declined to accept him as
a criminal, even though they thought him no
purer than themselves. Judge Hodges was
distinctly in favor of a conviction, with more
or less punishment (perhaps floggings) to follow.
A jury of Hodgeses would have “potted ” the
Sunday-school teacher. The 12 men in the box
were content to find him Not Guilty.
• * * •
The second case was a capital charge, insti-
fated and engineered by the police against
ohn Galvin, an occasional theatrical agent.
Galvin had the misfortune to “ pick up ” a
specimen of doubtful virginity in a restaurant
adjacent to a Melbourne theatre. The girl
accompanied him to one of the theatres
to get a pass for the play. She said
that he threw her down, and while
stifling her screams, outraged her. In her bald
narrative she didn’t pretend to have any desire
to prosecute the alleged offender. On leaving
Galvin’s office, which opened on to the street,
she questioned one of his actor friends as to
whether the pass to the theatre was a genuine
document. She was seemingly anxious to re-
visit the scene of the outrage, and forget her
“ ruin ” in the delights of blood and thunder
drama. With this fact admitted, the subse-
quent prosecution of Galvin appears a mockery.
The police led the attack. “Information”
was received from the caretaker of a public
lavatory at the Eastern Market. The girl
called at the lavatory and stated casually
that she had been assaulted. Then she
strolled to Cole’s Book Arcade, whence she
walked home to South Melbourne with
another girl, passing remarks to “boys”
by the way. The lavatory matron communi-
cated with a constable of her acquaintance
re the raping of this innocent, and lo !
the constable next day spoke to her as she was
walking up Bourke-street. There was an
outraged damsel at large in the Victorian
metropolis, and this constable picked her out
from the throng of Bourke-street pedestrians,
like a needle from a bundle of hay, and took
her to the lavatory informant. Then she was
borne in triumph to the detective-office, after-
wards to a hospital for medical examination.
Under police management the girl unfolded her
tale of horror, and although magistrate Panton
was very indisposed to sign a warrant on the
capital charge, the detectives succeeded in
getting Galvin committed for trial. Also they
put it about town that the prosecutrix was a
highly-respectable spinster whose case “ looked
very black against the man.”
* * » .
At the criminal Court the prisoner gave his
statement of his discreditable transaction with
the girl. He had found her—virgin or no
virgin—prepared to sell herself for money—-
plus a pass to the theatre. Mark Lemon once
said that the strongest passion in human nature
was the passion for free admission to the play.
The girl, Galvin said, willingly submitted to
an “ assault,” and if she uttered a cry—well,
it was certainly not a cry of moral protest. In
support of the prisoner’s story of what had
happened at the office there was the fact that
he parted with the girl on the premises (an
almost certain proof of his innocence), leaving
her at liberty to accost the first person, or
policeman, she might meet on the pavement.
She went straight to the actor friend aforesaid
and enquired as to the validity of her pass to
the play. Judge Hodges omitted to refer to
this vital point in his summing-up. He went
to great trouble to denounce one of the
prisoner’s witnesses as a viper, but he didn’t lay
stress upon the strongest feature of the
prisoner’s defence. Nay, more, Judge Hodges
told the jury, when they applied for a further
statement, that the girl denied the “pass”
point altogether. Whereupon counsel for the
defence asked for the girl to be recalled, and
when she hau repeated her former admission
(in flat contradiction of Justice Hodges) the
jury almost immediately acquitted Galvin.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Border Railway Rates.
The S.M. Herald, in its issue of September 1,
publishes some of the evidence, hitherto kept
dark, given by the N.S.W. and Victorian rail-
way commissioners before the Federal Conven-
tion at Adelaide. J.he said evidence makes out
a very bad case for provincial railway manage-
ment It shows that, west of the Darling,
Victoria carries wool at as much as 66 per cent,
below the regular rates in order to get the trade
away from N.S.W. In other parts it carries
goods at from to 60 percent, below the tariff
rates for the same purpose. Then N.S.W.
carries wool from Hay at about 48 per cent,
below regular rates to prevent Victoria getting
the business. West of Bourke, in the district
where Victoria carries wool to Melbourne at
one-third rates to get ahead of N.S.W., the
latter carries the same kind of goods to Sydney
at about one-half rates to get ahead of Victoria.
Both N.S.W. and Victoria here scramble with
reduced rates for the south-west Queensland
trade. In the extreme North N.S. W. carries
wool to Sydney at a little over half-rates in
order to cut the throat of Brisbane. Wool
from Cobar to Sydney is so much per ton if
it comes from the stations around Cobar ;
wool from across the Darling, if put on
the trucks at Cobar, is carried thence to
Sydney at one-third less in order to pre-
vent it going to Melbourne. The natural
inference is : when part of the freight from, say,
Bourke is carried at 2d. per ton per mile on
plain business principles, and another part is
carried at l£d. to damage the adjacent pro-
vinces, the producer around Bourke is pay-
ing more than he should do to make up for
the reduction allowed to the other fellow. And
if part of the freight from Swan Hill to Mel-
bourne is carried at, say, 2d. per ton as a
matter of business, and the rest at Jd. per ton
as a matter of cussedness and interprovincial
war, it certainly seems that the Swan Hill man
is paying more than he should do to make up
for the huge concession granted to the other
fellow. And if the railways were all pooled
under Federal control, and it didn’t matter
which port the traffic went to, and there were
no cut-throat reductions, it certainly seems
that the Bourke, and Cobar, and Swan Hill
producers, and many others in the same posi-
tion, could get considerably lower freights see-


ing that they would no longer have to pay for
the other fellow. Probably the most remark-
able statement in all the evidence is one put
into the mouth of the late Mr. Eddy, who is
apparently made to say that this cut-throat
system actually pays :
Mr. Eddy : Every bit of the traffic we carry from Rive-
rina to Sydney is carried at a considerable profit. There-
fore, every pound of traffic we get from Riverina at the
rates that exist to-day is to the advantage of every indi-
vidual user of the railways in New South Wales. It is a
wrong way that some people have of looking at it in New
South Wales that they are paying for the lower rates from
Riverina. Quite the contrary is the case.
The Bulletin badly wants to know if this
statement is correctly reported, and on what
possible evidence it rests. The N.S.W. rail-
ways reach for the Riverina trade with seven
lines. The Junee-Hay railway, which is one
of the four arteries, was run last year at a loss
of .£8494, which result was over £BOOO worse
than that for ’95. Another, the Narandera-
Jerilderie line, was run at a loss of .£12,011,
which was £I3OO worse than the ’95 results.
The Goulburn-Cooma line is a frightful concern
which lost £47,525 in ’96—£4000 more than the
loss for ’95. The Cootamundra-Gundagai line
lost £6168 in 1896, also a bigger loss than that
for 1895. The Culcairn-Corowa railway lost
£7llß for 1896. Another line was opened this
year, from Jerilderie to Berrigan, and the report
just issued states that it is likewise working at
a “ slight loss.” When six Riverina lines out
of seven show an annual loss of over £BI,OOO
the alleged statement that the cut-throat sys-
tem pays so well that every bit of Riverina
traffic is carried at a proht is incredible. It
may be carried at a profit in the sense that it
pays working expenses, in which case it is
better to carry it at cut rates than not carry it
at all, and probably this is what was meant.
But it certainly doesn’t pay working expenses
and interest, therefore the reason for a Federal
arrangement which will do away with special
border-rates is as strong as ever.
The Lucknow Strike.
What news there is about the Lucknow miners’
strike is mostly bad news. One by one new
men are taking the places of the strikers ; the
process goes on very slowly as yet, but the pro-
cession will probably come in faster by-and-bye,
and every man makes the prospects of the mine-
owners a little better and those of the men a
little worse. Meanwhile, the situation pre-
sents some curious features. Gold is nominally
State property, and in former times the pay-
ment which mining companies were supposed
to make to the State was 2s. for each ounce ex-
tracted. A good many companies, including
the Wentworth, didn’t pay it, and for years
prior to 1889 the State was too tired to make
them settle up. When the collection of the
royalty commenced the Wentworth co. applied
for a lease under the Act of 1894. A lease
requires, among other things, the regular em-
ployment of a certain number of men ex-
cept when a mine is under exemption.
The New' South Wales Crown Law Office
has been for three years considering
some technical point, or alleged point, about
this proposed lease, and till that exhausted
organization gets its second wind the great
Wentworth co. works under a permit, or under
the power conferred by the fact that it has
applied for a lease. The permit doesn’t re-
quire the payment of any royalty, and it con-
tains no labour conditions whatever, so the co.
has a general authority in the meantime to do
as it darned well pleases. With a lease, the co.,
if it drove out its men by an altogether unjusti-
fiable reduction of wages, would either have to
get a sufficient number of other miners, or hire
a sufficient number of idlers, to fulfil the con-
ditions, or else it must get exemption. It
couldn’t get exemption without showing some
decent cause, and the local mining authority
might, or might not, hold that a desire to cut
down wages lower than they have ever yet
been, was a decent cause. Under the permit
system there is no need either to show cause, or
to man the leases, so this English co. started on
its big strike with a distinct advantage, which
the ordinary mining syndicate doesn’t possess.
The Ministry reports that it has so far got over
its tired feeling, that the lease has been
“ approved,” but whether it has been issued,
or, if not, when it is going to be issued, is still
uncertain. The impression is that it has
not, and that the Wentworth co. still
enjoys its special advantages. The lease con-
ditions, being approved by law, are presumably
a fair thing; therefore, by not putting the
Wentworth co. under these conditions the
GoD-fearing Government seems to be, or to
have been, giving it a wholly unfair and illegal
advantage over the miners in the present scrim-
mage. If that lease hasn’t been formally exe-
cuted, it ought to be hustled through with all
possible speed. Then the two parties would
have what the law distinctly says is a fair field,
and could argue the matter out. The permit,
or whatever the thing is called under which the
co. worked since ’94, was never intended to be
a valuable weapon for lowering wages and
reducing the miners to subjection.
The Rock Ahead.
The Federal Convention has resumed its labors,
and the probable result thereof is so dubious as
to be almost beyond conjecture. The principal
rocks ahead are the question of representation
in the Senate and the financial problem. It is
difficult to say which is the more hopeless of
the two, but as the latter is the more compli-
cated, and as the average Australian politician
knows less about finance than anything else in
this world, it will probably be found that the
principal trouble lies in that direction. The
financial trouble practically boils down to this :
If the Federal Government, owing to mean
and foolish provincial jealousies, doesn’t
take over the railways and public debts
as it ought to do, and yet takes
over the whole right to levy customs and
excise duties, as it apparently must do, certain
awkward results arise. The States will be left
with their interest and railway deficits to pay,
and the means with which they pay them will
be gone. The Federal Government will have
the means to raise a very large revenue, which
it doesn’t want. If the Federal Government
reduces the customs and excise, so that they
yield only enough to pay its own expenses, and
it doesn’t hand back any surplus to the States,
then the immortal Joss only knows how the
States arc to pay their interest. If it
raises so much that the surplus, when evenly
divided, will give Tasmania enough to live upon
(Tasmania being more dependent on customs-
duties than either N.S.W., Victoria, or S.A.),
it must invent a tariff that will raise twice as
much in proportion to population as N.S.\Y .
raises now. N.S.W., of course, would receive
back its surplus, and would thus have about
£1,000,000 more revenue than it has at present,
and the Sydney Telegraph, on behalf of the
Freetrade party, objects to this for the truly
amazing reason that “ it wouldn’t know what
to do with the money.” A province which has
about £200,000 a year average deficit, and
which only keeps the deficit down to that
figure by charging some £BOO,OOO a year of
current expenditure to loans, certainly looks as
if it wanted another £1,000,000 a year very
badly indeed, but the Telegraph refuses to see
the matter in that light. Then, supposing
the Federal Government guarantees that
there will be a surplus, it must either
be divided according to the amount which each
province contributes (and when the border
Customs houses are abolished no one will be
able to tell what each province does contribute),
or according to population. On the population
basis the Telegraph, which tries to make this
question its especial property, professes to
demonstrate that Tasmania and Victoria would
get back more than they contributed, while
N.S.W. in particular would be the victim of an
enormous annual swindle. This idea is built on
the assumption that N.S.W. would import as
much under a high tariff as it now does under
a low one, which is utterly absurd ; by the
third year of the high Dibbs tariff the imports
had fallen so much that the Customs yielded
hardly any more than they did under the low
Parkes duties. Under a uniform tariff the
provinces would ultimately pay just about the
same amount per head, and then the distribu-
tion of the surplus according to population
w'ould be quite fair. But no one knows for
certain how long the levelling-up process
would take, and when the proposed mode
of distribution would become fair. The surplus
question bumps up against a fresh rock almost
everwhere. Yet hardly anyone seems willing
to settle the difficulty by letting the Federal
Government take over the railways, debts, and,
if necessary, the public instruction departments,
and have no surplus at all to claw and scram-
ble over. It is proposed instead to appoint
another committee t© “ thresh the matter out ”
—the said matter having been already so furi-
ously threshed to no purpose that there are
hardly two rags of it hanging together.
+
The Mixed Gauges.
The three Railway Commissioners who met at
Melbourne to discuss the need for a uniform
railway gauge came to exactly the conclusion
which The Bulletin foretold last week in its
article on “ The Mixed Gauges.” They agree
that there should be a uniform gauge, that the
N.S.W. 4ft. BJin. is the best, and that the
cost of the alteration in Victoria and S.A. (es-
timated at £2,360,500) should be borne by the
three provinces jointly, as they are all equally
interested Then they further add, in effect,
that though each Commissioner agrees that the
cost should be divided, no one can arrive at a
basis of division —whether at the rate of so
much per inhabitant, or so much per mile of
railway in the province, or neither, or a little
of both, or otherwise. Also, neither Commis-
sioner will approve of any settlement except
the one "by which his province pays the least
and the other two pay most. So it is proposed
that the Federal Government should raise the
money by loan, and provide the interest, and
pay off the principal by instalments, the bill
being charged to the Federation generally.
This exceeding damphool of a suggestion re-
duces The Bulletin’s opinion of the sin-
cerity or the intelligence of the Commissioners
to zero. So far it has been a condition
in every scheme of Federal finance that each
province is to receive back its share of the sur-
plus with all possible accuracy ; there has been
much discussion about how to arrive at the
exact shares of the surplus, but about the fact
that each province wants to pay no more than
its mathematical proportion of the cost of the
Federal Government, and as much less than its
proportion as is possible, there has never been
any doubt at all. Therefore the interest on the
proposed loan and the annual sinking-fund
would require to be charged in certain pro-
portions to the provinces, and deducted from
their surpluses, and the question of how to
equitably divide it among them is left as un-
solvable as ever. The Federal Government, so
far as appears at present, will have no control
over the railways, and can only interfere by
consent of the provinces, and the provinces
must agree on their respective shares of the bill
—which agreement would be just as hopeless
then as it is now. There is no visible way
towards this much-needed reform except by
federating the railways and charging the cost to
the Federal railway system in general without
any division among the provinces. And rail-
way federation seems as far off as ever.
+
The Spotless Member.
When Griffith, M.L.A., made his very
sensible proposal in N.S.W. Parliament that
Federal Judges should not be allowed to hold
interests in financial or trading companies of
any kind, he was squashed principally on a
weird argument advanced by member Fergu-
son. “ If it were contended,” said Ferguson,
“ that a Judge might give a wrong decision
because he was involved in some financial co.,
it might equally well be contended that a
Minister or M.L. A. might act improperly for
the same reason.” And the Assembly was so
impressed by the utter impossibility of
any Minister or any M.L. A. giving a
vote which was influenced in any way by
his private interests that Griffith’s amendment
bumped on every individual step of Parliament
House stairs as it was thrown out. Yet nine
Ministers and Ms.L.A. out of ten give votes
regularly that are influenced by their private
interests, and the big majority which was so
pained at the very idea of such a wicked thing
being possible, was perfectly aware of the fact.
No one in his senses imagines it is mere coinci-
dence which causes every importer in the House
to believe in Freetrade ; and every manufacturer
who makes any tiling which is affected by the im-
porters’ competition to believe in Protection;
and every lawyer to hold that easier admission
to the legal profession would be “fatal to the
best interests of the country.” It can tbe
through mere accident that almost every banker
is against a State Bank, and every member
holds that the wild-cat railway in his electorate
is absolutely essential to the welfare of the
community at large. Everybody knows tha.t
politicians vote all the time according to their
private interests, and the assumption that their
spotless integrity is so evident that it is quite
needless to take precautions to preserve it
when they leave politics and take to the
bench is a very large and beautiful assump-
tion indeed. So far as the evidence goes,, the
only time when the average member’s vote isn’t
guided by his private and personal interests is
when he happens not to have any. And then,
as often as not, he stays away. There are a
few members who are not average members,
but very few.
The secretary of the Federal Coffee Palace
(Melb.) has sent out a circular imploring share-
holders to raise the question of Licensing Act
Amendment at Parliamentary election meet-
ings. The Act, as it now stands, doesn’t per-
mit the transfer of hotel licenses, and a Bill to
amend the stupid old regulation is always de-
feated in the Lower House by force of circum-
stances. “ The opposition comes firstly from
the extreme temperance party, and secondly
from brewers and publicans, who consider
that their interests will be adversely affected,”
says the circular. “ But the chief reason for
the repeated failure to pass the Bill is. that
there are many members who, having no inter-
est iu it, neglect to attend when the Bill is
called on.” Seeing that the Federal must
either take to strong drink or die by inches,
shareholders will do well to extract a promise
of assistance from the candidates who are just
now bawling for their vote and interest. Mean-
while how does this candid acknowledgment,
that the beer-member votes according to his
own private interests and the member who has
no private interests stays away, fit in with
N.S.W. member Ferguson’s grief at the very
idea of any politician being swayed by venal
motives? (See “Plain English” item, “The
Spotless Member.”)
♦
The Storekeeper, organ of the N.S. Wales
wholesalers, and subsisting largely on the
advertising of York and Clarence-streets, takes
the Railway Commissioners to task for running
cheap excursions, as these bring extravagant
backblockers to Sydney, where they dissipate
the money they should spend with the country
storekeeper, and where —blackest crime of all
—they buy parcels of auction groceries and
guinea suits and four-and-elevenpenny boots
and other sinfully cheap commodities. This
awful depravity, says the Storekeeper, in
effect, can only be checked by keeping up the
passenger railway-fares. This, however, The
Bulletin thinks, would not be sufficiently
drastic. These wretched ingrates of country
residents should be hobbled to prevent them
wandering towards the fatal delights of
George-street and Oxford-street, or the summer
railway-fare from Cootamundra and Bourke and
those places should be raised to at least £IOO.
The Bulletin thanks its stars that it will not
be in editor Adam’s breeches when a justly-
angered Calico-Jimmyism takes him across its
corporate knee and hammers a few sound Free-
trade principles into him. But perhaps Calico-
Jimmyism as it is in York-street only wants
Freetrade for the other fellow.
“ Alter ” from Kalgoorlie :
Ed. Bulletin, —W.A. Govt, has introduced in the Upper
House a Bill to “ legalise the Hainault lease,” despite the
fact that the ground is already held under miners’ rights
by persons who took it up while it was Crown lands, after
cancellation of the Hainault lease for non-payment of
rent. Though Government says the rent had been paid
before cancellation, and that said cancellation was caused
through “a departmental mistake,” it is almost certain
that the rent had not been paid, and that Govt, is using
this as a blind. In no other British province has a Govt,
been known to legislate on a case subjudice. In the great
Mt. Morgan case, although the mistake was the Govt.’s
own, even a Q. Ministry, never very remarkable for super-
fluous honesty, made no attempt to interfere, but. left the
matter to be decided by the Privy Council. The chief re-
ligion of the W. A. Govt, is to please John Bull and give him
an exaggerated belief in his security of tenure. Bull, how-
ever, is not quite a fool; when he sees other people’s exist-
ing rights taken away by special legislation, it will naturally
strike him that even his leases may be treated as Govt,
now proposes to treat these miners’ rights—as so much
waste-paper. Hitherto a miner’s right, purporting to
confer certain privileges, has stood against the world ; it
has remained for a W.A. Govt, to break down all this and
say its miner’s right is worthless “rubbage,” to hold
good only as occasion merits. You object to “ jumping.”
The Hainault was not “ jumped.” The ground was open
to any holder of a miner’s right : and I do not think you
will endorse the action of the Govt, in placing “ expedi-
ency ” before principle, and in “ framing a law to break
the law.” I submit to you that, if the law is bad, it
could be altered ; but that, meanwhile, it should, be ad-
ministered in its full integrity ; and I ask you to impress
upon the .W.A. Misgovernment that, if they wish to
inspire confidence in their desire to give “ security of
tenure,” they will themselves respect tenure when accord-
ing to existing law.
Wellington (M.L.) Post is horror-stricken to
find that Ben Tillett preaches a doctrine
whereby “ the world’s workers will do not only
their present work, but that of the employers,
financiers, and capitalists as well.” The Post
stands stock still as under :
This raises the much-vexed question of Socialism, a
subject fraught with the gravest issues and beset with the
most crucial difficulties, economic, political, and social.
Space entirely forbids our discussing this question in the
present article, and the subject has not yet, to our mind,
become one of pressing importance enough to be con-
sidered within the sphere of practical politics.
This pronouncement, from a “ leading ” daily
published in the chief city of the most pro-
nounced Socialistic country on earth, offers a
fine example of the fatuity of fab (or Stout),
and the effect of party politics on the chroni-
clers of history.
Editor Bulletin, — Be the agitation for hos-
pitals for consumptives. No matter how desir-
able a cure may be to the individual or the
family, from the larger point of view of the
community no really consumptive life is worth
saving. Consumption is simply a development
or manifestation of acquired or hereditary con-
stitutional weakness. And patching-upconsump-
tives means passing on to the next generation
a multiplied tendency to constitutional weak-
ness. Curing consumptives means breeding
consumptives. The desire to reproduce the
species seems as strong in constitutionally de-
fective persons as in others, and human nature,
ltedged in by conventional morality, and ever
optimistic as to the future, lets posterity take
its chance. The State should make a certificate
of health as much a sine qua. non of marriage
as it is of an insurance policy, and le_t the con-
vention of morality readjust itself. And if
these remarks seem to need, either point or ex-
tenuation, please remember that of the victims
of the Moloch of phthisis I am— One.
“ A Bananaman ” to The Bulletin :
Lawyer Justin Fox Greenlaw Foxton, Q. Minister for
Lands, confessed to the Q. Assembly that he did not
believe in certain provisions—it is of no consequence
what—of his new Land Bill, but that he remembered how
the House had rejected clauses to the contrary in the
Bill which his colleague, Barlow, bad introduced in ’95.
“ Therefore,” said Foxton, ‘‘ I do not think it wise to
bring in those clauses again.” Not wise in regard to
what consequences? Merely the office-holding of Foxton,
Tozer, Barlow, & Oo.! This, if you please, is Respon-
sible Government! It either has no policy, or if it has
one it pigeon-holes it at the bark from the mouths of the
“noses” in the ’Ouse. Responsible Government in
Kanakaland never leads the political van. It ricochets
into office and then all its brains are spent in glueing
itself to its seat. A strong, earnest Minister, or a strong,
boodling Minister, would fling down his gage of battle to
the whole House and say—“ That’s my ticket. If you
don’t like it, get somebody else in my place who will sub-
scribe to your ticket.” M'llwraith is a bold bandit of
that kind, and that is why he was admired (in that
aspect.) even by his enemies, for the world cheers
courage of an unyielding kind. M’llwraith faced the
whole Assembly once, with only Pat Perkins as his fol-
lowing; he bearded Governor Musorave and brought
about Earl Derby’s remonstrance to Australian Governors
that in matters of local administration (the question was
the release of a prisoner) an Excellency wust follow the
advice of his Executive ; and he stood defiantly at bay on
another occasion—that of his quarrel with old “ Bully ”
Palmer about a young petticoat—when the Q.N. Bank
threatened to call in his overdraft, variously whispered
among all those who didn’t know to be between £lOO,OOO
and £300,000. If M’llwraith made the most scandalous
appointment, he might be depended upon to stand up in
the Assembly and fight, beak and talons, for his prottyi
as the best available genius for the position. If he per-
petrated the fishiest of jobs, be would provide apparent
reasons therefor, and heckle his adversaries so deter-
minedly that they would be glad to desist. M’llwraith
even coalesced with hisdeadly enemy, Griffith, and found
sounding (if unsound) arguments for th'it! But the
present spineless Government of Queensland waits
to count noses before it dare assert that it has an
idea. Its only policy is—“ Which is the surest
way of sticking to these cushions?” Thus will it dis-
pense favors on Opposition and Labor-members and on
malcontent Ministerialists. It dribbles out small things—
lectureships and other appointments, royal-commissions,
select-committees, small-goods jobs of all kinds ; and such
is the parsimonious greed of current members that by
this means it keeps afloat.
The outside stolidity of the average English-
man has led to serious mistakes before now as
to how much he will “ stand,” and that he
won’t stand absolutely unlimited three-a-penny
Deutscher is quite certain enough to make the
importation of cheap German engineering labor
a danger which even the insolent British monev-
god cannot afford to despise. Also, from the
merely personal point of view, the suppressed
anti-German feeling in England is so powerful
that even the most mechanically “loyal” of
Britons hates to be reminded of the virtually
pure sauer-kraut blood of his royal fetish.
Very little careless handling, in short, is needed
at the present moment to make the matter a
dynastic question instead of merely an indus-
trial one.
4
The Sydney official Inspector of Weights and
Measures states in the daily papers :
With the exception of a Bread Act for the whole colony
and a Coal Act (which does not affect wood) limited to a
radius of five miles from Circular Quay there are no
means of controlling or preventing short weight, measure
or count. For instance, coffee, spices, and other tinned
packed goods are often weighed tin included ; sugar is
notoriously short; jams, preserves and pickles are of all
conditions and sizes ; flour, grain and salt have an ever-
changing weight at the vendor’s Will; starch, even of the
best brands, has a long and a short pound ; liquids are
quite oblivious to the standard gallon; ales, wines and
spirits display sweet variety as opposed to the legal and
stated measure ; kerosene and turpentine generally favor,
when imported, the old wine or American gallon, as being
l-sth less. In fact, every commodity appears to have a
real as opposed to the legul stated value, involving 1 such
as have but little to distinguish them from real frauds.
Nor does it seem growing less. Every fresh avenue in
commercial life brings on the attendant punishment of
someone cutting the price by diminishing the quantity
without stating it, and, therefore, taken on trust by
a too confiding public. These_ point out, in my
opinion, the need of some even drastic enactment, because,
however severe, it will not affect, but protect, the honest
trader, making it compulsory that all made-up packages
shall have distinctly stated upon them the net weight,
measure, or number of the contents, and that every
person selling or exposing for sale in any place whatso-
ever any commodity representing it to be more than it
actually is at the time of so selling, or offering for sale,
shall be fined or imprisoned according to the law pro-
vided.
If there were such an Act, and the importer had
to give 16oz. to the lib. tin instead of, perhaps,
120 z., a good deal of the apparent cheapness of
imported goods in N.S.YV. would disappear,
and the local manufacturer might have a better
show. It is easy to sell lib. of something at an
apparently low figure if lib. is only fib. Will
some importing M.L.A. introduce the necessary
bill ?
The average M.L.A. is not the only man whom
the instinct of self-preservation prompts to im-
pede, or make impossible, the Federation of
Australia. In his position his antagonism
becomes manifest. But at his back are others
whose outlook on life is like his, and who,
because unseen, can work with much more
deadly effect. Prominent Civil Service officials
will, like M’sL.A., suffer under Federation a
diminution in numbers, in consequence and in
emoluments. Such of them as the Federation
adopts will, of course, be advantaged, but these
will be few in comparison with the crowd left
behind. Even Governors are touched with the
M.L.A. frailty. “The one thing,” said Nor-
man, of Queensland, “ I see against Federation
is that under it Lieutenant-Governors will take
the place of Governors at the various capitals.”
The success of Federation means the success of
the People against a combination of all these
and other official antagonisms.
Life-imprisonment and seven years, res-
pectively, for editor and publisher of a disaffected
native Indian newspaper ! Looks as if the British
Raj was at last awaking to the fact that it must
either hit out or go !


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
' - : of the UNITED STATES.
, Financial Position December 31, 1896.
ASSETS ... ; ... ... ... ... ... £45,161,239
Increase-in Assets during 1896 ... ... ... ... 3,284,283
SURPLUS ... ... ... ... ... ... 8,995,246
Increase in Surplus during 1896 ... ... ... ... 552,744
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 190,646,265
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1896 ... ... 540,108
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq,, M-L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.O. :
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
“Qive me oqe
of
your pljofos”
Is a gentle appeal often urged by
a friend, and the excuse gener-
ally com s “Oh, I haven’t got a
GOOD one.”
IDE/\L Portrait?
as their name implies, are per=
fectreoresentations. They are
good likenesses and will always
meet with the approval of your
friends.
ix Enamelled Cabinet Portraits, with
Beautif i 1 v Finished Enlargement it
permanent Bromide or Opal
A.ny style or pose. No extras.
7/6
The IDEAL Portrait Co.
480 George Street,
(ground FLOOR. NO STAIRS )
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS
lB
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majkstt’s “Th« Fiench Maid.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Variety Co.
Palace The Biograph.
Roval “Struck Oil.’’
Town Hall Hambourg Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “Too Much Johnson.”
B° YAL “ In the Ranks.”
Bijou “The Bookmaker.”
Alexandra “ The Terrors of Paris.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
The “French Maid ” opened on Saturday
night with a vigorous high-kick and about a
quarter, of a yard of stocking, and maintained
this eminently cheering aspect all through. The
character from which it takes its name has little
to do except trill some Frenchy ditties, and be
hugged by many admirers, and wave a fluffy skirt
in an occasional dance, and the other people re-
volve about her. The fat British waiter with the
meteoric nose grovels at her feet, and offers to
shed the last drop of gravy in her service. The
British sailor does likewise, also the long, dusky,
bejewelled and wholly superfluous Indian rajah ;
and the gendarme with the portentous stomach
Worships her when he is off duty, and isn’t dis-
guising himself as Sir Lord Mayor Smith and
pursuing the elderly British female who is sus-
pected of sketching the fortifications. All
these people, besides a lieutenant and an
admiral, circle about the French girl more
or less, and nothing in particular comes of
their circumlocution. The comedy is a pleasant
affair with more stocking than definite principles.
It stops to dance and sing on the slightest provo-
cation, and ties itself up in mild knots for no
sufficient reason. There is no mystery to unravel,
save that a hairy monsieur thinks somebody is his
wife’s previous husband, and has convulsions in a
tail-coat; and the admiral imagines his wife—a
bony lady of the moral poke-bonnet variety—has
been seduced by the hotel-keeper; and the maid
fancies her tremendous gendarme is unfaithful,
whereas he is only bulky and stupid, and full of a
desire to save his bleeding country by arresting
the lone British female on suspicion. But none of
these people take their gnawing grief seriously.
* * * *
There is no plot worth speaking of— only a
general readiness on the part of the French Maid to
go to the casino with everybody and be shouted
for ; and though her various admirers drag each
other about in moderation by the hair there is no
tragedy. There is no moral, and no definite
inclination on the part of anybody to be immoral—
in fact, everybody’s intentions are perfectly
honorable. A tendency to wave a vast
amount of skirt in the frisky dance, and
an unlimited amount of pretty girl and
flowery background and illumination, are the
leading features of this deserving enter-
tainment. There is also a lot of comedy in
it, quite independently of any suspicion as to the
morals of the Admiral’s elderly, thin female. In
fact, the various suspicions are apparently inserted
merely because the play is French, and a play
can’t really be French without a great mass of
gloom resting on the morals of somebody, even
though that somebody may prove in the end to be
as pure as the freshly-boiled egg.
* » » •
The lamented absence of Lauri and Alice
Leamar is partly compensated for by the appearance
of that old favorite, Howard Vernon. Vernon’s
gendarme, and Ernest Shand’s British sailor, and
Coleman’s waiter are the three malo features of
the cast. The small, fat worminess of the waiter
reminds The Bulletin that it never yet met with
a heroic waiter, either in drama or fiction or else-
where. The servile eagerness with which he has
to rush for the chop and to say “ Yessir,” and the
swelling of his feet through standing around
abjectly while waiting to be ordered to fly for the
next plate of food, may have something to do with
this. Miss Ada Willoughby’s French maid is
wholly beautiful, and her singing voice is in keep-
ing with the rest of her. George de Lara, Lis-
sant, Peachey, C. M. Berkeley, and Juliet Wray
also call for the moral support of this influential
publication. There is more than the average
amount of good music in the “French Maid,”
and at least two songs which will probably be
repeated until the public wishes it was dead.
*# * *
MacMahon’s Cinematographe keeps going
strong on pictures relating to the recent war, and
they all have the same tendency to make the
Sydney “ Lanceah ” feel very bad about his pro-
spects when the scrimmage does come. One
recent illustration represents Greek cavalry on the
march. The average city “ Lanceah ” doesn’t look
half a circumstance compared to these tall horse-
men ; Demetrius and Leonidas Pbriedphish, and
Themistocles, junior, as they stalk past in the
picture, appear practically invincible. And when
one remembers how Hassan and Abdul and their
crowd doubled up those glittering warriors, the
prospects of Jawbone Neild, financier, in the front
of the battle, with a drop of brilliantine glitter-
ing on the end of his warlike moustache, look not
at all brilliant.
** * *
Alfred Dampier, who has been doing a
highly successful season at Newcastle, opens
Sydney Lyceum on the 18th with “ Robbery
Under Arms” and a strong company. “Rob-
bery ’’ will run for a short time only, as there are
some new dramas to follow, and the tale of
the gum-tree and the bushranger will have to
make way for them. The Lyceum has been
taken on a long lease by the MacMahons, who
intend running it as a dramatic establishment.
At present Sydney has two theatres devoted to
variety business, and two burlesques, and the god
is beginning to howl for meat. Variety and bur-
lesque are good enough in their way, but they are
only banana fritters at the best.
That old and deserving comedy, “Struck
Oil” will be staged at Sydney Royal on Saturday
with Maggie Moore as Lizzie Stofel and Harry
Roberts as father John from the land of schnapps.
Roberts, as father John, is almost as good as
Williamson used to be—whioh is saying a great
deaL
** * *
Rickards has engaged Miss Lilian Tree for
the Palace, and that beloved songstress makes her
first appearance on Saturday. The Biograph now
gives 16 pictures every night, and sundry new
names, including Vollmar, the ’cellist, are on the
bill. So far, Rickards’ latest attempt at running
two theatres in one city has answered well enough,
and both the Palace and the Tivoli are in a sol vent
state. In view of his heavy responsibilities, ’Arry
has made new engagements which commit him to
£lOO,OOO in salaries, so if some casual person
named Muldoon drops a brick from an unfinished
building when the coster melodist is underneath,
it will disorganise the music-hall profession all
over the earth.
** * *
Madame Amy Sherwin is due at Sydney
Town Hall on 2nd October, for a concert season of
one week, under the management of Lauchlan G.
Sharpe. The rest of the co. consists of Barton
M'Guekin, Arthur Deane, Rivers Allpress and
Szczepanowski, pianist and conductor, from
Poland. The Bulletin trusts that Saucepanoffsky
is a pianist of some account, else his name will be a
lot more trouble to the compositor than he is
worth.
*« * *
N. S.W. Public Schools Athletic Associa-
tion holds its ninth annual sports at Sydney
Cricket Ground on the 17th and 18th September.
There are eighteen events for public school boys
and eight for “ girls and infants,” the infants con-
sisting of very small boys, who are put into the
girls’ programme to be out of the road.
** * *
Considering the rough time so many Syd-
ney musicians are having just now, there was a
lot too much of the “ unto him that hath shall be
given ” business about last week’s benefit to Mark
Hambourg. The “ benefit ” was invented to assist
the struggling artist—not to rain superfluous coin
into the pockets of the inordinately successful one.
Mostly bogus, too, must be the artistic enthusiasm
that goes into such hysterics over a clever foreign
boy, but never dreamt of “benefiting” the
recently dead Andrew Fairfax—sadly necessitous
in his latter days—sterling artist though he was,
and hard worker for music and for charity in
Sydney during the last thirty years.
** * *
A liver-y barbarian to The Bulletin :
Now that Mark and Jakoff are gone and it cannot do
their show any harm, I’d like to get off a small counter-
blast to the crank who was permitted to air his lunacy in
a recent BuLLimx. As a matter of fact, many musicians
don't take the pair at all seriously. All admit that Mark
plays very loudly and quickly. Jakoff plays quickly and
feebly, and may be dismissed at once, as he only gets
through by hanging on to Mark’s coat-tails. The latter
is a pure slogger. He is to the piano what John L.
Sullivan was to the prize-ring, and Lyons to cricket.
No matter how curly the rhapsody he biffs it right to the
boundary. However appalling the symphony in F sharp
mineur, when it is put before him he thumps it in the
ribs, bashes it over the heart, and finally knocks it out in
three rounds with a punch fair on the point of the jaw
The music never gets a show. He claws with the right
and pounds with the left. The piano gets on its hind leg
and howls with anguish. It must often feel like
a telegraph-office which has been wrecked by light-
ning. Still, the public loves a slashing fighter, and
Mark catches on, not so much because he is an artist,
but because, like John L. Sullivan, he “goes from the
jump,” Girls who struggle with the “Maiden’s Prayer”
think it just lovely, and men who don’t play say, “My
word! that chap kin ’andle the peanner.” The silly
worship of Australian women who “ kid themselves they
are musical ” has filled them with boundless conceit.
Mark is a bit blas6 by this time, but the adoration
is somewhat new to Jakoff, and when in bar
or boudoir he gazes hungrily around to the women
for admiration. Once he came into a temple of
grog, where the goddesses were not musical, and the
principal comments were on the size of his feet and the
shortness of his trousers. But, apart from these ladies,
there are still too many left ready to fall down and wor-
ship the same large, feet, which worship, combined with
Jakoff’s natural woodenness, will delay the attainment of
his artistic manhood for many long years.
** * *
“Too Much Johnson,” the new farcical
comedy at Melb. Princess’s, comes from America,
where the overwhelming mother-in-law is still a
popular delusion. William Gillette, the author of
this boneless trifle, was referred to in last week’s
Bulletin as an American Pinero, but the refer-
ence is cancelled herewith. Gillette’s dialogue
doesn’t sparkle, his creations are commonplace,
and his plot has no particular “ bite ” in it, Per-
haps its construction is unique—the programme
seems positive on the point—but, in any case,
“ Too Much Johnson ” falls flat upon the present
writer. Australia feels tired to death of terrible
mother-in-law, and when the old woman finds a
letter from somebody else’s wife in the coat-pocket
of her dear child's husband the audience loses all
appetite for the complications to come. “ Too
Much Johnson ” starts in the saloon of a steamer,
bound for Cuba, which is bearing a diminutive
Billings to a bogus sugar-plantation. Billings
invented the plantation as an excuse for his long
absences from home, and now his wife’s mother is
bringing Mrs. B. to inspect the nou-existent pro-
perty. The French husband of Billings’ other
lady is on the boat looking for Billings under his
other name of Johnson. Also a third small person,
named Faddish, who travels with a lot of luggage
and wants to. part his daughter from her young
man, is looking for a real Johnson. The real
Johnson turns up in the second act as a bond fide
sugar-planter, and then there ensues a long and
rather tedious confusion of identities. Billings,
the arch deceiver, reigns supreme, all the time.
Finally, Billings traps Johnson and the French
husband and the third small person in a black-
hole, and, leaves them to their fate whilst he es-
capes from the island with his mother-in-law. The
idea of such a Napoleonio liar allowing himself to
be embarrassed by his wife’s family is palpably
ridioulous, even for a faroical comedy.
* • • •
If Billings were a possible fact, then
Harry Paulton would be much too small and
elderly for his part, but his years and size make
no difference to the result in “Too Much John-
son.” Paulton is a first-class liar. He relieves
the calm monotony of his untruthfulness with a
number of little delicate attentions to detail that
would be more widely appreciated in a smaller
theatre, and his ’Murkan accent is another proof
of how easily an experienced British actor can
talk like Nat Goodwin, whereas Nat remains
utterly incapable of talking like a Britisher.
Cyril Keightley sports a similar accent and a
sandy goatee in a bright performance of Johnson ;
also Oily Peering and Fred Carnbourne are satis-
factory, whilst the ladies in skirts are a drag upon
the proceedings. Miss Alma Stanley appears in
trousers as a young man, but her serious imper-
sonation of a love-sick Harry is only remarkable
for being rather natural.
** * *
Frank Thornton, as “The Bookmaker,”
shook his gory looks at a crowded Bijou on Satur-
day night, and nobody seemed to know exactly
how to take him. It is nearly six months since
Thornton made his horsey appearance in Sydney,
and, after half-a-year of careful consideration, this
journal takes him to be a protest against the tote,
and a direct appeal to the sympathies of Ikey Mo.
The Thorntonian bookmaker bursts into the house-
hold of a dee ply-mortgaged earl, and rescues him
and all his belongings from the financial grip of a
marquis, who is heir to a dukedom. No eldest
son of a surviving duke was ever yet in a
position to advance half a million sterling on
a mortgage, but this marquis seems to have done
it somehow. Bookmaker Thornton, who, by the
way, came into a lot of money along with a
baronetcy—having saved the earl from ruin and
his daughter from a cruel marriage with the bad
marquis, proceeds to annul a mesalliance between
the earl’s son and one Polly by claiming Polly as
his own long-lost bride. Whereupon Polly tries to
stab the gentle “ metallician ” with a pen-
knife, and he retaliates by granting her <£soo
a year for life. Frank Thornton will prob-
ably have to play “ The Bookmaker ” for
a fortnight. The unconvincing story is
humorous in places, and the central figure fires
off a brilliant description of a horse-race that
brings down the house. Miss Harrie Ireland, too,
is uncommonly fetching as the real Lady who
listens to Thornton’s tale, and Miss Bessie Rig-
nold likewise sheds a gleam of poetry upon the
baronial hall. The earl and marquis, however,
carry their exalted rank with difficulty, and the
rampageous Polly is only passable.
** * *
“ Lights ’o London ” is running its third
week at the Royal, where “ In the Ranks ” will
come up for revival on Saturday. At the Alexan-
dra a, new management has mounted a gruesome
convict drama in very decent style, and the Opera
House show is booming more than ever with
ventriloquist Win ton as the latest item in the bill.
** * *
“The Sign of the Cross ” controversy
(Melb. edition) elicited a beautiful statement of
religious thought from one Chas. E. Hutchinson.
This good man said :
The theatre kills prayer. Let anyone attend theatres
and go home and try to pray, either privately to God or
with the family. It cannot be done. Attending theatres
draws away and loosens the love for God’s house. It kills
the study of the Bible. Drink dens are attached to most
theatres, and the temptations to drink are great. For
these reasons I hate, loathe, and detest theatres. Dr.
Chas. Strong says going to the theatre makes one laugh ;
lifts a person out of himself. Well, I find all the joy I
want in life in the knowledge that I am God’s, and that I
am going to live with Him for ever. If the theatre makes
you laugh for an hour, God can make you laugh for ever.
The Bulletin’s experience of gentlemen who say
they “ belong to God ” has not been cheerful, all
the same. They don’t laugh. They may, per-
haps, chuckle inwardly over the belief that folks
in general are going to damnation, but they don’t
wear an encouraging expression of faith in their
own present and future happiness. If the apostle
of non-intoxicants, and his cousin, the Bible
student, were joyful jokers who appeared to be
having a real good time on earth, the whole
human race would have been converted years ago.
As it is, they look like men in urgent need of being
lifted out of themselves, by drink and comic opera,
and their message of salvation seems sadder than
an invite to a funeral. Compared as rival adver-
tisements for their respective lines of living, the
average sinner is a brilliant success ; the ordinary
saint, a dismal failure. The sight of him drives
men to drink and unbelief. Chas. E. Hutchinson
is, doubtless, an unconscious enemy to his own
good cause, and were he to turn away from church
righteousness the devil would groan aloud.
(For “Poverty Point ” see page
Thomas A. Edison, the great inventor, has
just produced the “ HOME ” phonograph, which,
as the name implies, is intended to supply the de-
mand for an instrument for private use having all
the vital points of the expensive exhibition phono-
graph combined with a low price. This new
“ talking machine,” costing only £l2, will soon be
found in every house in the country. The manager
of the Edison Electric Parlor (102 Pitt-st., Sydney)
reports a strong demand.*
After hearing Lyne, Barton, R. E. O’Con-
nor, and See ambling more or less around the sub-
ject, what are the N.S.W. Opposition’s clear-cut
convictions on the land and income tax ? There is
a fine chance for it to assert itself as the Democra-
tic party, by declaring in favor of an income-tax
which will increase according to the increased size
of the income, and which will exact twice as much
on incomes derived from property as on those
earned by personal exertion ; also, a land-tax
which will rise steadily according to the value of
the estate. N.S.W. is the only province with a
land-and-income tax in which this Democratic
principle isn’t recognised. If the Cornstalk Op-
position would cease wobbling with four diverse
wobbles, and seize its opportunity, there would be
a future before it.
Melb.: ‘ ‘ Demise, millionaire Payne. His
mansion, on Toorak-road, was nearly opposite
Canon Tucker’s, Christ Church, and he seemed
never to ladle out, except for the Anglican cause.
The London mob once yelled, ‘ There’s Tory Lord
Eldon. Cheer him. He never ratted.’ No hum-
bug about Payne.. None of this Clarke and
Ormond nonsense. Payne lent money—cartloads
of it—by stealth (at interest), and blushed to find
it fame. A man who always seemed to go along
Collins-street in an apologetic way. A bit dingy..
Never took a chair. Never made a speech. In-
deed, nobody ever knew who was Payne. Jones
would be pointed out as Payne, or Brown would,
or Smith—anyone in a greeny coat. Nobody
burgled Payne’s silver. On the whole, the Payne
racket pays. I believe he thought the other mil-
lionaires a lot of fools. *'
When it’s all over, The Bulletin wouldn’t
be surprised to see Mr. T. A. Coglilan N.S.W.
Agent-General. It would be hard to get a better
man.
Of all politicians “agin” Federation John
Haynes is the most sincere. John fears that it
would detract from the importance of the N.S.W.
Premiership, on which he has long cast an ambi-
tious eye.
Bairnsdale, Vic., is seized with a violent
epidemic of matrimony. Thirteen marriages are
booked for occurrence between Aug. 25 and Sept.
25 in the little Gippsland town. Bairns’ dale,
indeed !
Rumored, on some sort of authority, that
R. E. O’Connor will not stand for Fitzroy division
of Sydney, but will attack Premier Reid in his
own constituency. It is not unlikely that the
Premier may have to face the hostility of his old
friend, Bung, who is inclined to hold him respon-
sible for the doings of his God-fearing colleagues.
Pastor Isitt, the Gospel-hybrid, scornfully
rails at the vapid social column in the Saturday
daily newspapers. He forgets, or possibly ap-
proves, of the equally flatheaded religious column
in these prints. The prints themselves would
give a column of lunatic intelligence if a sufficiently
numerous constituency so demanded.
Marconi, the scientist who telegraphs
without wires, not only looks forward to the time
when he will sit on the shore and explode gun-
powder magazines on board ship a long distance
off, but foresees that he will be able, by means of
the waves in the air, to set automatically and
simultaneously all the watches in the pockets of
the inhabitants of a town by timing them from
one central clock, with a daily electrical discharge
at noon.
“ Lex ” to The Bulletin :
A C.P.S., lately promoted to the magisterial bench of a
down-South town, immediately after passing the legal
examination imposed by N.S.W. Public Service Board on
all candidates for such office, is already beginning to
show the value of that test. A few weeks ago a man was
charged before him, under the Towns Police Act, with
furious driving in one of the outlying villages; defen-
dant’s solicitor took the point that there was no proclama-
tion extending the provisions of that Act to the village
as required by the Act itself Result, point upheld ; case
dismissed. Yet the Towns Police Act was made to apply
to the whole province in the year ’69 1 When will pro-
fessional men be appointed to the Bench?
Thus a northern correspondent of Sydney
Mail :
Queensland is cooked for cattle. Drought and ticks
have put the set on it. If you want to keep N.S. Wales
clean, don’t let a beast cross the border. lam cattle-
buyer for three meat-works and know what I am talking
about. The horse lam riding has over two million ticks
on him.
In the face of which it ought to be mentioned that
the tick has disappeared from the greater part of
the western country ; that only isolated portions
are suffering now from drought ; and that two
million ticks would just about cover an elephant,
and sink him down to the bed-rock.
Tasmania has decided to acknowledge God
at the Convention. Only three voted against it.
Attorney-General Inglis Clark argued that in re-
ligious matters the majority had no right to coerce
the minority, even though that minority consisted
of but one individual. The parson member
argued similarly, but did not vote at all. Premier
Fysh, with tears in his eyes, said he would not
offend the large number of petitioners for the
acknowledgment, although he would thus have
to vote against his own views. Another member
quoted from the Constitution of the seceded States
of America, vyho acknowledged God but sanctioned
slavery, and in the end were manned down by the
Federal States who had not acknowledged God
but had condemned slavery.
The finding of the jury in Kelly v. Sydney
Daily Telegraph tends to vary the existing
N.S.W. law, which, as interpreted by Justice
Stephen, is that a newspaper is not privileged to
record the fact of a citizen’s arrest on a criminal
charge ; no statement with reference to such a
charge is privileged, unless it is founded on actual
proceedings in court. Plaintiff had been arrested
on a charge which was, subsequently, not borne
out by the police-court proceedings ; and the
Telegraph at once gave an account of the arrest
and the charge, together with details tending to
support the police theory of guilt. The jury,
however, found for defendants, thus holding that
any newspaper-proprietor, or other person, is
privileged to chronicle and give details of an arrest
before accused is presented at court.
A society In Memoriam notice from the
Argus, 28/8/'97 :
SADLEIR.—In memory of Nicholas St.urgess Sadleir,
third son of Nicholas and Georgina Sadleir, arid
great grandson of Henry Davis Hunt, of Cuppagh-
house, Co. Tipperary, descended from John (de
Vere), 16th Earl of Oxford, died 1559, died at
Glenelg, South Australia, 28th August, 1896.
Vero nihil verius.
“The trustiest, lovingest, and the gentlest boy.”—
Beaumont and Fletcher.
“Misunderstood. And I smiled to thinkGod’sgreat-
ness flowed around our incompleteness.”—E. B.
Browning.
“ Love is all, and death is nought. We fall to rise,
are baffled to fight better —sleep to wake.” —Robert
Browning.
“ Whom the gods love die young.”
“ A Vere of the Fighting Veres.”—“Ludlow Papers,”
by T. Carlyle. Oliver Cromwell’s Letters.
“ I am the resurrection and the life.”


CYANIDE
or POTASSIUM
98/100 % PURE.
STOCKS ALWAYS
ON HAND.
Lowest Quotations
on Application.
SPECIAL TERMS
for
Forward Delivery.
Frankfort Manufacture.
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO.,
SYDNEY—63 PITT ST. MELBOURNE—RIALTO.
The KOERSTZ
PATENT
* s tittle giant”
CRUSHER.
Price - - £3.
Now recognised by all Prac-
tical Miners as the GREAT
LABOR-SAVER, and the most
effeotive and perfect Prospec-
tors’ Crusher ever put upon the
market.
Fredk. Mason, Sole Agent,
239 SOSaKTLST., SYDNEY.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic&otherSodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine.
CTANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-**-.. M*t,boub.ni« ; 14 Ourrie-irt-. A.»*iiAn>B.
Jack Whitley ,
Carpenter. '*j
Last heard of from Coolsrardie, Nov., ’95,
then thinking of going to Black Flag.
Write to
ROBT. WOLFE,
Murray-st., Pekth, W.A.,
Agent for the
Simpson Buckboard
AND
Simpson Jump-seat Sulkies.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S. Wales revenue for August, 1897, is
£129,097 less than for Aug-., ’96, and for July and Aug.,
’97, it is £174,526 less than for the same months last year.
Still the revenue is, so far, £7200 ahead of expenditure.
In the same two months £238,066 of loan-money was ex-
pended—just about as much as Victoria proposes to spend
for the whole year. The God-fearing Government has a
genius for loans.
6 * * * *
The Victorian revenue for August was £24,592
better than that for August, 1896. For the first two
months of the present financial year Vio. revenue is
£41,337 better than for the corresponding months of last
year. This would be a good time to pass an Act providing
that an annual payment of, say, £250,000 towards wiping
off the deficit shall be a fixed charge on the revenue till
said deficit is extinguished. At present, the shortage is
only supposed to be paid off out of surpluses at the
Government's discretion, and at the very first sign of a
surplus Turner had almost to defend himself with a gun
from the membah who wanted to grab the money right
there, and spend it with both hands.
* * * *
The Westralian revenue for August, ’97, was
£1537 less than for August, ’96. There was a falling-off
in July of £12,400, so the first two months of the financial
year show a decline of £13,900 odd as compared with the
corresponding two months of last year. The fall isn’t
much, but this is the first time since the great boom com-
menced that there has been anything like a decline.
The Tasmanian revenue for August is £2461 better than
that for August, ’96. Apparently the little, heart-shaped,
green isle is on the up-grade.
• * * ■*
Queensland is apparently starting again on an-
other spell of boom, borrow and burst. According to the
official statistics, the province has had 22 deficits in 37
years. For the last four years, however, Nelson has made
ends meet, on paper at all events, and there have been
four successive surpluses—a thing that only happened
once before, away back in the early MTlwraith land-sale
days. Also, the expenditure of loan-moneys, which got
as'high as £2,000,900 a year in the awful Griffith days,
was cut down for a time to very moderate dimensions.
But apparently Nelson has grown tired of trying to keep
things moderately honest, and the Queensland financial
hog has got both his front feet in the trough in the good
old hog fashion. The effort to payoff the accumulated
deficit out of income was abandoned, and the item was
quietly converted into permanent debt. The surpluses
became smaller, and the old, cheerful fashion of scattering
borrowed money about with a shovel has been again
reverted to. The last seven years of Queensland finance
have been as follows :
Loan money ex-
pended.
1891 ... Deficit £269,345 £1,296,259
1892 ... „ 42,178 ... 662,281
1893 184,081 ... 385,720
1894 ... Surplus 66,774 ... 185,138
1895 ... „ 186,957 ...W 367,773
1896 ... „ 38,103 ... x 332,727
1897 ... „ 8,886 ... 1,148,341
These are the Queensland Statistician’s figures, and
though they don’t quite agree with those given by
Treasurer Philp in his last financial statement they are
presumably accurate. And, according to them, Queens-
land made an effort for about three years (1894-5-6) to
keep decently honest and solvent, and then gave it up
in disgust and went on the razzle again. Also it seems as
if it was going to keep on razzling. Even the abject
little surplus of 18886 was only arrived at by leaving
£40,000 of last June’s liabilities over to July, so that they
went into the new financial year; otherwise the 23rd de-
ficit would have arrived in due course.
* * * *
Item from N.S.W. Premier Reid, in Sydney
Daily Telegraph of 3rd. Sept. :—“ He certainly did not
take the judgment of two months of the year as an indi-
cation of the state of the finances, especially as the land-
tax had yet to come in. People were always remarking
that there was to be a deficit , bat so far they had proved to
be false prophets. He would do his best always to show
that no reliance could be placed on these glooiry prog-
nostications.” Tub Bulletin wonders, in a respectful sort
of way, if there was ever another financier whose utterly
blatant insolence could compare with that of G. Reid, or
who had quite so magnificent a contempt for Fact. He
has put in three financial terms, and in each one of them,
according to figures which are available to everybody who
cares to look up the Statistician’s annual volume, there
was a huge deficit. On one occasion out of the three he
partially disguised the deficit by charging a lot of current
expenditure back to the accumulated shortage on the
“ cash basis ” plan ; on the other two occasions it wasn’t
disguised at all. Only a few days ago the N.S.W. Statis-
tician issued a statement that last year’s deficit was over
£166,000. And with the official publications giving him
the lie direct, Fat Man Reid still states, with a smiling
countenance, that he never had any deficit at all. A man
who can keep up his end of such a huge fiction, by mere
assertion and effrontery, in the face of overwhelming evi-
dence, has a certain genius which commands respect
mingled with mud.
° * » » *
The Union Bank of Australia, whose balance-
sheet is only a shade younger than the Deluge by the
time it reaches this country, reports a profit for the half-
year ended 28th Feb. of £37,578. Last half it was £58,837
and the one before £37,996, so things have become no
better with great energy in the past six months. The
usual 5 per cent, dividend (£37,500) is declared, and there
is a very humble surplus of £7B to carry forward. Still
there is a surplus, which is something ; four out of the
last seven dividends absorbed more than the half-year’s
earnings and left a deficiency. The most notable feature
about the Union's balance-sheet is that deposits are
£BOO.OOO less than they were six months earlier and
nearly £1,30 ',OOO less than they were a year ago ; als > the
cash in hand is j.4,405,u00, whereas six months back it
was no less than £6,100,000. With less money lying idle,
the Union should be earning larger profits instead of
showing a heavy decline. The reserve now stands at
£750,000, and the management is still of opinion that the
£250,0"0 transferred to contingency account, a little while
ago, will be sufficient provision for all losses.
Away back in 1854 the Union Bank, then a
much smaller affair than it is now, made £295,963 profit,
and reached the pinnacle of its glory by declaring a 36
per cent, dividend. For 39 years its dividend never fell
below 12 per cent. In 1883 the profits reached their
maximum, £344,020, the greatest slab of magnificence
which any Australian bank ever put into its balance-
aheet, and the dividend was 17 per cent. Now the
earnings average about one-fourth of that amount, and
dividend, which got down to 8 per cent, in ’93 and 6 per
cent, in ’94, is maintained at 5, with a narrow margin.
Also the £25 shares, which readied £7B a few years ago,
now keep just above par, at £26. Prophesying after the
event, it appears that this institution splashed dividends
around a great deal too gorgeously in the good old days, and
rather less dividend and more reserve fund would have
mitigated the fearsome slump which has since come upon
it. The Union last half-year only earned £3 7s. per cent,
on the shareholders’ funds, and the Bank of Australasia
the same amount, whereas the Bank of N.S.W. earned £5
11s., the Commercial of Sydney £4 10s., and the Bank of
New Zealand £4 18s. per cent.
* * ♦ •
The Bank of New Zealand, for the year ended
31st March, ’97, had a profit of £56,891 as compared with
£40,084 for the previous year, and with a loss of £37,356
for 1895, which is a very solid improvement. This is after
payine: £BO,OOO, dividend at 4 per cent, on the £2,000,000
of State-guaranteed capital, and writing-off £68,000 of
bad debts left over from the old, private management. A
dividend of 3£ per cent, on the £500,000 preference capital
held by the M.L. Govt, absorbs £17,500, which leaves a
credit balance of £39,391. The B.N.Z’s profits are, there-
fore, really £136,891, and after paying £97,500 in divi-
dends, it has the above substantial balance, which is a
decidedly better result than most banks can show in
these times. The marked improvement as compared with
’96 and ’95 tends to show that the new management is a
great success. The B.N.Z. has now £2,744,141 capital
(£500,000 of State capital, £2,000,000 raised on a State
guarantee, and £244,141 of shareholders’ money) which is
£t97,000 more than it possessed a year ago. It has a very
large and solid business, and a splendid reserve of
£1,690,242 cash, and £829,016 in State and other secuntes.
» * * *
The B.N.Z. is still a good deal hampered by the
embarrassments handed down by the old private manage-
ment. The following items among the assets show the
extent of its remaining difficulties :
Assets Realisation Board Debentures £2,680,285
Estimated amount recoverable on Ist call ... 4 >
B.N.Z. Estates 00. (Assets in Liquidation) ... 680*0®(>
Do. (Debenture Conversion ao.) 68,445
Goodwill of Colonial Bank 75,000
£3,407,936
The first item consists of 'debentures issued to the bank
by the Board which is realising the enormous mass of
landed property accumulated in the boom days gone by.
It is comparatively certain that the property won t yield
enough to fully cover these debentures, and the B.N.Z.
is pledged to pay the Assets Realisation Board £50,000 a
year out of profits for as long as may be necessary, to
make good the deficiency, whatever it may be. Last year
it could only pay £35,709 ; this year it has £39,391 avail-
able, so the bank has, so far, paid £75,100 instead of trie
£lOO,OOO due. To ail appearance it will he able, after this,
to hand over £50,000 a year regularly, but in the mean-
time the £2,680,285 of debentures are only a paper asset
of uncertain value. The “assets in liquidation ” may be
worth more or less than the amount set against them ,
ditto the amount expected to be recovered on account of
Ist. call; the debenture conversion account seems more
or less uncertain, and the “goodwill of Colonial Bank
isn’t a saleable asset at all, and will have to be written off
out of profits when they are available. When the Assets
Realisation Board has sold all the properties on hand, and
the goodwill account is written off, and the drain of
£50,000 a year ceases, the 8.N.Z., on its present figures,
should be a highly profitable concern. How long it will
be before these dubious items are cleared off depends
wholly on circumstances. And, as no one can even esti-
mate yet what the deficiency on the properties in the
hands of the Realisation Board may be, It is quite im-
possible to guess how long the payment of £50,000 a year
must continue.
* * * *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melbourne) ended its half-year with a profit of £9ll,
equal to about 4s. 3d. per cent, per annum on capital.
Last half-year the profit was £978, so things are not
getting much worse. The following are the results as
shown by the last seven balance-sheets
June,’94 ... Profit £5097 June,’96 ... Profit £69
Dec. ,’94 ...Loss 5632 De0.,’96 ... „ 978
June,’9s ... ~ 7566 June,’97 ... » 911
Dec.,’9s ... „ 2616 _ . .
The latest arrangement, which came in force in
October, ’95, saved £9OOO each half-year in interest,
and, as the results for June, ’97, are £8477 better
than those for June, ’95, the saving hasn’t been swal-
lowed up, as in the case of most land-banks, by
the all-devouring “ depreciation.” All the same, the
situation is not too brilliant. Gross earnings from invest-
ments this half-year are £10,392, which is only £1 11s. per
cent, per annum on the £1,353,662 of alleged investments.
If any inference can be drawn from these figures the pre-
sent ‘value of that alleged £1,353,662 should be about
£600,000. The bank owes £594,000 to its various credi-
tors, and even if it accumulates wealth at the rate of
£l9OO a year the return of prosperity must.be gradual.
Still, it seems in a position to pay all its creditors 20s. in
the £ by the time the reconstructed deposits fall due,
whatever may happen to the shareholders. The next
instalment (£62,437) isn’t payable till Jan., ’99, and there
is already £44,000 on hand to meet it. The profit, small
as it is, seems to keep pretty steady. And it is a better
land bank than the average which shows any profit at all
just now.
* * * ♦
Alleged that Q. Govt, has been handed a
further report on the Q.N. Bank by the committee of
investigation, and has suppressed R in horror^
The latest land-boom is reported from the
Boulder, W.A. Blocks bought a few months ago for £5O
and under are now fetching from £5OO to £lOOO. Amongst
others, the local Wesleyahs were in the first rush, and
grabbed an allotment which is now about the centre of
the rapidly - growing township. With commendable
astuteness the trustees lost no time in running up a
3-roomed cottage, which—and thereby hangs a tale.
» » * *
The collapse of Langlands Foundry, Ltd.,
touches up three reconstructed banks for a heavy amount.
Had the collapse occurred a year earlier, the trade credi-
tors would have been 50 per cent, worse off than they now
are. Even as it is, such as are in will be fortunate if they
get 2s. in £.* , , ,
The B.H. South Co. during its last half-year
paid in three divs. £15,000; but the balance-sheet shows
that this was only done by drawing on earlier profits.
The balance to profit and loss on Dec. 31 was £18,885 ;
and after paying these divs. and meeting current exes.,
£l3 091 remains—so that not enough profit was actually
made to pay two divs. Besides, the balance carried for-
ward is mostly estimated surpluses ; and in these rousing
times in the metal markets estimated surpluses are apt to
pan out badly, though no doubt on account of the rise in
lead the credit taken in this present case is, as it happens,
right enough, assuming the weights are correct. How-
ever the fact remains that the co. had at the end of the
half-year only £196 in cash at. its bank, while it owed
£3695 Pretty plain that the last div. (about the declara-
tion of which there was a difference of opinion among
the directors) ought, never to have been declared. Worse
still the prospecting which was most urgently required
has’not been done, and the manager uses stronger lan-
guage about the default than one generally looks for in
these reports. Altogether, the outlook is poor, and
would be still worse if the rise in lead hadn t given this
mine a big lift. Of course in the manager’s opinion ■ a
prosperous future, is assured," but that is only because
known bodies are likely to 1
deeper levels and in the course of furt . . P • ocky
The manasrer is a {food miner, but his logic is rocay.
This, anyway, sticks out: the directors
the mine to provide an immediate feast for the sha
holders. t *
Junction North (8.H.) issues an annual report
—the first of the new co.’s. This new co. began with
£17,500 paid-up in money ; in the 12 months it has pai
£25,793 in eight fid. divs. (128,955 shares were issuedVand
it has £2184 worth (estimated) of or ® hand ’
in cash, while it expects to receive £7057 as surpluses on
ore shipments. The past is satisfactory enough .the
future is hazier. General-manager Phillips »J®-
“ Estimated quantity of ore in sight.—First. grade, from
back of 640 ft. to 520 ft. levels, say 3000 tons , f F?m
to 750 ft., this block we anticipate will be available o'-say-
eight or ten weeks, and should contain at least 1 >
tons, making in all 113,000 tons. Second grade . There
is practically an unlimited quantity in sight. It is about
time a protest was made against this sort of talk. as
matter of fact, the lode has not yet been touched at the
750 ft. level; the plans do not show that at any place has
it been tested below the 640 ft. Yet, though the body
will not be even tapped for some weeks!to come, anl
though its size anil character below the 640 ft. level
are unknown, these estimated 110,000 tons of first-grade
ore are returned as being “ in sight 1’
The most satisfactory features of the Junction
North report are the economy shown in the management
of the 00. and the announcement (stale, of course) that
concentrating plant for dressing the second-grade sulphides
is to be forthwith erected. But the capacity (7.>0 tons
weekly) is too small for a mine, with “ practically an un-
limited quantity ”of this ore in sight. The divs. ' aB t year
were all derived from the higher-grade stuff, whether
there is to be a repetition of the pleasant experience will
be shown in a few weeks, when the lode at 750 ft. is cut
although it is just possible that the prospecting drive has
been diverted a little from the nearest course with the
object of avoiding what, in the upper levels, was an in-
different section of the body. Wherefore it will be just
as well to be cautious, even should the lode, when struck,
prove to be as rich as Tiik Bulletin hopes it will be.
* • *
If the Junction North plan is right the North
B.H. would have a poor chance of getting much lode
but it is not yet fully determined that the underlay is
throughout the same. What the North people claim is
that it elbows back, and that, therefore, the run of lode
in the Junction North will not go on increasing in pro-
portion to the depth attained as the Junction North re-
port infers it will. A proper survey does not yet appear
to have been made.
* * * *
The zinc-market is firm, according to latest
cables : quotations, £l7 2s. 6d. The average for ’95 was
£l4 12s. 6d., and for ’96, £l6 12s. 6d. The movement led
to increased interest in the project for treating the zinc-
iferous product of the sulphides on the Australian seaboard
instead of shipping them, along with th e other concen-
trates, to Europe. A trust has been mooted, but the B. n.
Prop., with an eye to the future, has discouraged
efforts in that direction by coming into the market as a
buyer of concentrates, “on its own.” The zinc-market
is, ’however, credited with being about the most unreli-
able of all the metal markets—and that is giving it about
as bad a character as a market can struggle under.
* * * *
The most feasible-looking explanation of the
recent dull, sickening thud in the silver market is
that the ’Murkan silver-men were giving a gentle hint to
England that, if she didn’t want silver to go headlong
into the bottomless pit, she had better listen to the Wool-
cott Commission which President M'Kinley has sent
across, and which, having secured the co-operation of
France, is now talking International Bimetallism in
London. The explanation is all the more feasible, on ac-
count of the disgust in India (where the natives are said
to be getting suspicious that the Empress is monkeying
with their money, somehow); and that, again, by the
way, makes the rumored intention of the Government to
re-open the Indian mints more likely than it looked a few
months back.
* * * *
Apropos the remark in the par. regarding the
South 8.H., that the estimated surplus may be relied
upon assuming that the weights are right, a curious story
is told of a recent “ mysterious disappearance ” of several
hundred tons of concentrates. Whether the concentrates
were ever really in existence is doubted by some ; any-
way, it is alleged that the “error’’was not discovered
until it was found on weighing that there were not eight
or nine hundred tons, but only two or three hundred tons
on the floors. Since then the management has been
changed, but the mystery has never been cleared up.
* • * •
This in defence of the greatness of the Girilam-
bone and North Nymagee mines : “ The ore, at any rate,
is higher grade than that procured at Cobar mine. But,
you see, the Girilambone’s own balance-sheet proves the
exact contrary. Some people in ignorance mistake ore
for concentrates. “On the other hand, gold is present
most encouraging quantities on the lower levels.” Again,
the same balance-sheet shows no return of gold. Some
people, too, don’t know the difference between having a
little gold in a concentrating copper-ore, and in a self-
fluxing one. In one you don’t save it and in the other you
do. There are copper-mines in N.S. W. much richer in gold
than is the great Oobar, yet they never get any out.
“ The ore is remarkably easy to smelt, with proper
fluxes.” Some persons are not aware that every ore
in the world is easy to treat —“ with proper fluxes.
The ores of Mt. Lyell and Cobar contain their own,
which makes all the difference, though some people
can’t see it. The statement that North Nyma-
gee failed for the want of ore is thus answered:
“In the Nymagee proper, all the workings are in
the northern portion, and in his report on the North
Nymagee Mr. W. Blakemore states he has no doubt that
the magnificent ore deposits of the Nymagee will be found
in the North Nymagee, and he is possibly in a better
position than the writer referred to to pass judgment,
for he was 12 years general manager of the Nymagee.”
Some persons can’t even see the difference between the
prospective existence of ore bodies and their actual exist-
ence established. What price North Nymagees when the
deluded public learns that the ore bodies have yet to be
found—and then may be absolutely worthless, as the
ores in “ next ” mines too often are. However, men who
talk and think like this are highly qualified for the
responsible position of mining tipsters. Both Girilam-
bone and North Nymagee may prove great mines.
The writer sincerely hopes they will. But they sadly need
saving from some of their
Another important change to be made in the
working of the Overflow mine, N.S.W. Now proposed, on
the advice of Danvers Power, to erect a cyanide plant. A
few months baek it was decided to erect a lead-smelting
furnace- the foundations of which have been put in. For
such a mine to fall into the hands of a few enthusiastic
squatters was just their bad luck. Not knowing what
they had from the jump, they seem to have made a lovely
mess of things generally. One manager seriously pro-
posed to treat the ore by means of a cradle. Then we
had it that the teams taking plant to the mines would
return laden with rich ore. Next, by means of a lead
furnace, the gold would be recovered. Now it is cj-anide
that is going to pull the mine out of the mire. What
about the copper ? In the multitude of metals the safest
plan would be to soopen the mine as to be able to determine
beyond doubt the right method of treatment. It takes
money to run a mine, as the Overflow squatters have
found to their cost.
* * * *
Birthday, Parkes (N.S.W.), 90 tons, 58oz. Why
don’t they keep the battery going ? The boom is off and
the tipster silent. Now stated that a new reef has been
struck. “It is 6ft. wide, will average over an oz. to the
ton and all the stone can be taken out with picks.”
’ * * * *
Ballarat of N.S.W. G.M. Co. : “ A good whip-
pole has been delivered.” Let us hope they will break it
gently when the time has arrived for the hire of the whip-
horse. .
* • * *
The Lucknow miners have not, to date, got any
help from the Barrier miners, and preoious little from the
gold-miners of Vic. The explanation is that the Luck-
now men hadn’t formed a union of any sort until they
were already in the thick of the trouble ; and the Miners
Association is disposed to regard them as non-unionist
workmen who are badly in need of a severe lesson. The
only argument likely to weigh on the other side is that
Superintendent Lock is in need of a lesson, too ; and if the
men in the Miners’ Association of either the Vio. fields or
the Barrier repent and help the strikers it will be mainly
with the latter thought uppermost.
m * * m
Mt. Morgan has now been running about 15
years. Gold produced up to last May amounted to
£6 713,015, of which nearly five millions went to
shareholders and original owners, divvies amounting to
£4 400,000, or about £4 Bs. per share. Low-grade or*
works are building which, when completed, will put out
100 000 tons per annum. The whole cost of getting and
treating low-grade ores is a little less than 4dwt. a ton—
total yield, Bdwt. llgrs. per ton. Treatment of mundio
ore will cost 7dwt. a ton, and the total annual capacity
of the mundic works will be some 24,000 tons. The Mt.
Morgan people claim that recent explorations have added
another mine to the world’s greatest gold-mine. And
they believe they will soon be able to pay steadily 9d. pet
month. At 785., present price, the shares yield 8 per
cent, per annum.
r * * • *
Greatest progress in mining economy has been
made at Mt. Morgan, where the cost of chlorination has
been reduced from £2 Bs. 2d. to 15s. 7d. a ton. At
Ravenswood, ore yielding 6dwt. to the ton pays with
cyanide process.
* ♦ * *
Brilliant, Charters Towers, 2419 tons, 37430 z.
» * • *
The great Pike-M‘Gregor equity-suit about the
Anchor tin-mine (Tas.) has been decided by the court—
which seemed most impatient during the hearing—for
defendant. The court decided that a telegram to the
effect that, the mine was sold—price to M’Gregor £20,000,
and 76,000 shares—was not sufficiently definite information
to render it necessary for one partner to communicate it
to another, when the receiver of the wire wanted a re-
newal of option, the reason for the opinion being that
there might be a hitch in England ! So, when a confi-
dential agent holding a power of attorney sends such a
message, one is not to believe that he has any real
grounds for sending it. Anyhow, plaintiffs are going to
appeal to England.
Ir * * * *
The big rises in Mt. Lyell and Lake George
shares are attributed, at least in part, to the large buying
orders received from England on behalf of the big copper
ring just formed amongst European speculators.
South Star, Ballarat, half-year, 16,589 tons for
83790 z., including 2410 z. from cyaniding 6000 tons tail-
ings. Divs., £6OOO, and £2850 paid off battery account.
Allowing for the gold left in cyanide solution, the tailings
are only running about a dwt.perton, yet a profit of some
£5OO is shown under this head. Charcoal-precipitation has
been thrown out in favor of zinc, and it would also seem
that bromo-oyanide had given way for ordinary cyaniding.
Cost of crushing with 40 heads, 2s. per ton. Pro-
bably no cheaper in the world where steam-power is
used -
Warm winding-up meetings of Westralian alleged
gold-mines are now the order of every day in Adelaide.
A few fair samples ■ —Blair Athol : Mr. Gray, chairman of
the investigation committee, said charges of gross mis-
management, negligence, incompetency, and glaring
breaches of duty had been proved. He proceeded to
show how the money had been misapplied. “ The utmost
sensation was caused as these charges were unfolded.
“ Mr. Finlayson accused Mr. Gray of unfairness. He had
a firm belief in the devil, and was convinced that Mr.
Gray was his local representative.” Mr. Gray : “ 1 recog-
nise you as the original.” Meeting adjourned, to give the
directors a chance to reply. Great Dundas Gold-Pros-
pecting Syndicate : The chairman said exemption had
been continually refused. If shareholders would only
pay up their calls, the mine would prove payable. Reso-
lufcion to wind-up carried. Brookman 8 Golden Arrow •
A shareholder—“ So far as the report just received was
concerned, the mine was not worth sixpence. What had
become of the 6oz. reefs talked of in the prospectus? He
thought they should let someone else take the mine who
wanted to lose more money.” Decided to adjourn for
two months,' to allow the mine to be tested at the 200 ft.
level. Golden Feather East: Chairman said, if the calls
were not better responded to, they would have to wind-
up. Adelaide Arrow : Chairman made the same remark,
whereupon it was decided to wind-up at once.
* • * *
Some good—over an oz. average—crushings are
reported from Norseman, W.A.; the total, 17300 z. from
1404 tons. Norseman Gold Mines, 377 tons, 4970 z. The
Krupp ball-mill has given satisfaction, and it is said :
•< All doubt of the future of this great English property
is now removed.** Also, that this, practically the first
return, “ has been awaited anxiously, as it would prove
the value of the Norseman line of reef.”
* • * *
At last another mining sensation by wire from
Westralia : “A rich lode has been found at Tamboorah.
The lode is five feet wide and six inches of it goes 70oz. to
the dish. It is estimated that the ground already opened
contains lOOOoz.” As a dish does not average more than,
say 101 b. this would mean more than half gold, and ,1“
dishes would represent the ground “ already opened 1
• * * *
Three applications for exemption : General
Gordon, G.G. South and G.G. North. “The General
Gordon application for six months was held over owing to
the non-appearance of the manager.’* “The distress in
the district has been irreatly intensified by the number of
men thrown out by these exemptions.”—W.A. paper.
* * * *
Hit-or-Miss, W.A., “ has cleaned up its first
crushing since resuming operations, but the result is not
known.” Waiting, perhaps, till the cake has been safely
taken out of the country! , -
* * * *
Londonderry (W.A.) shares recently rose in Lon-
don from Is. 3d', to 3s. 6d. owing to a whisper that tha
trustees in Col. North’s estate were going to refund the
money promised when the “ golden hole ” gave out.
•*• , *
Westralia seems to have a world-beater in. Kar-
goorlie. The Boulder steadily keeps up the magnificent
production of over 3000 oz. a fortnight, which is almost
sure to be increased nearly another IOOOoz. as soon as the
mine gets to work on its tailings. Why is this work so
long delayed? Lane’s latest yabber that he “has found
something ” sounds weak in the face of the (rood work
being done with tailings on the next mine. Before Kauff-
man leaves for London manager Callahan will have the
Lake View mine in shape to produce over IO.OOOoz. a
month. A trial run has been made with a part of the
new mill, the whole of which will probably start going
next week. The Ivanhoe is averaging a little over 2oz.
By the way, the £15,000 second deposit on the Ivanhoe
has been put up.
The Associated mine, the Australia, has started
production, but it is hard to get at the returns; Brown
Hill has spasmodic great returns which should be regular
now the re-constructed mill is ready. Golden Horseshoe
got over llOOoz. from the first 230 tons, and the “all-
seeing eve ”of Kauffman is upon it. Kalgurli seems to
have much enlarged its jeweller’s shop, and several other
producers are coming forward. Hannan’s is nobly carry-
ing the weight of a “ blasted” boom.
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 14-)


r
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men's Suits, 365. Extra Quality Men's Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Bailway Station or Sea-
board m the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
I Opposite \
Is G.P.O. )
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
“CORTO” ROTHSCHILD
CIGARS,
MADE OF THE
FINEST HAVANA TOBACCO (id. Each.
ee name CORTO on the bands, and beware of imitations ,
E. CUSEKTIER et Cie
GRAND SUPREME
brandy.
The PUREST BRANDY known, being distilled SOLELY from picked brandy
grapes, an each bottle analysed by the French Government Chief Expert. All
eminent physicians pronounce it invaluable as a check against INFLUENZA and
all FEVER CASES.
Price JVo Higher thani Other Leading Brands.
SOCIETY
[?]lestin
COGMAG
A Charters Towers gentleman, a few weeks
ago, sued his son-in-law for ,£5 4s.—share of
bill for wedding breakfast, eaten 20 months’
previously. The son-in-law confessed they had
agreed to “ go whacks ” in the matter, but alleged
that he himself had bought the wedding-cake,
three fowls and a small keg of beer —leaving
father-in-law to stand remaining damages. Urged
also in his defence that he had taken the man’s
daughter off his shoulders. Intending benedicts
will rejoice to hear that plaintiff was non-suited.
* * * *
Cooktown (alas for the days that were !)
now has but one solicitor. A few days ago the
police were proceeding against a publican for a
breach _of the Act, and retained the attorney
aforesaid. The P.M. imposed a fine, but refused
expenses, saying that the police should be able to
conduct their own cases. The lawyer then pointed
out that, had he not been retained by the “ foorce,”
he would have appeared for defendant. Where-
upon the P.M. remitted the fine and ordered de-
fendant to pay a guinea costs !
In S.A. country districts uncles have been
fnarrying their consanguineous nieces, nephews,
their aunts, and so on. So Russell, M.L.C.,
wants the Govt, to post the prohibited degrees of
relationship outside every post-office. Russell is
the Labor-curn-country delegate who recently
“THE BULLETIN'S" AMATEUR ART GALLERY.
FARM LIFE AT WALLUMBILLA SETTLEMENT, QUEENSLAND.
(1), Ploughing. (2). Fossieking for grub. Tucker run out.
raked up a nasty story about Copley, M.P. (then
leader of the Opposition), and so broke up a
sitting of the Leg. Couneil. By S.A. law a man
may marry his niece-by-affinity.
• * * •
The Bulletin doesn’t know exactly
whether grotesque or pathetic is the word for the
case of the Sydney young man who has just been
accepted for his chance of having his windpipe
slit for the Lord’s sake in China—after having
most of his teeth drawn, and his tonsils cut, and
doing a spell of hospital as a result of these curious
evangelical requirements. The Chinese missioner
evidently doesn’t do all his martyrdom in China '
• * * »
Mr. Gordon Percy Mare, petitioner in the
recent well-advertised Sydney divorce-suit, didn’t
object to his wife biking on a separate machine
with the cycling teacher, who made himself so
very much at home in a Mare’s-nest, but he jibbed
at a tandem. A tandem, in such circumstances,
does look a good deal like adultery-on-wheels.
* * * •
The torrent of maudlin slush which will
forthwith begin to flow over that sad little Aus-
tralian Babes-in-the-wood story need not discount
the genuine pathos of the fate of the three poor
little mites, who only totalled 12 years amongst
them. The eldest, aged 5, “ went for an axe to
chop a ’possum out of a log.” A sympathetic
“ cry of the mothers ” is ascending over all Aus-
tralia, and the subject is essentially one for the
poet—if, unfortunately, also for the poetaster.
• * • •
It is hard to conjure up a more affecting
picture than that of the poor woman recently
found, at wintry dawn, lying almost nude in a
garden at Canterbury (Sydney), and cooing to the
infant that had died of its demented mother’s 11-
mile wanderings in the dark.
* * * *
Scene, Yic. Police-court. Lady-doctor in
witness-box in an “under 16” case of assault.
Court : “ Did you find matters with the prosecu-
trix as you anticipated ? ” Lady-doctor : “ Quite
so, your worship—in fact, I may say that the girl
knew quite as much as I did.”
* * * *
At Perth’s fashionable feminine club, the
“ Karakatta,” an unmarried lady, lately proposed
for membership, was asked, among other things,
“ Are you a pure woman ? ”
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin, —As to identification by
thumb-impressions, referred to by Bulletin re a
current N.S.W. case, the South Australian police
adopted the idea long since. And it works. In-
stance : a man was caught trying to burgle a
N.S.W. hotel. He was locally unknown. Thumb-
marks were sent down to the Adelaide police. By
return of post came a photo, of prisoner, duplicate
‘‘thumbs,” and his evil “record.” I know of
other eases. _ Old gaol-birds try their best not to
the “impressions” to the gaol officials.—
* * * «
A few months ago (writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent) W.A. Govt, granted a sum of money
for ahospital in Nannine. The choice of a build-
ing site was left to a committee appointed by the
Nannine residents, and, to show their ingenuity,
they selected a piece of ground between two
stamper batteries (one constantly working), and
within 100yds. of the present cemetery. Any
imaginative unfortunate confined in the hos-
pital has now the pleasure of thinking he hears
his coffin being knocked together while he looks
out to see his last resting-place.
* * * *
A Dr. Fullarton died in Melbourne the
other night of the same thing that proved fatal to
Sadie MacDonald and Mrs. Tom Hales—a hearty
meal just previous to going to bed. Newspapers
published a report of the case without calling
attention to its moral—After having supper he
retired to rest, about a quarter to twelve o’clock.
At one o’clock he had an attack of vomiting, and
appeared to get all right again. At four o’clock
he had another similar attack, and again at six
o clock, when he appeared to be very ill. Dr.
Howard arrived at the house about seven o’clock,
j upon examining the patient, pronounced him
dead. From battle, murder, and midnight
meals, good Lord, deliver us.
Who sighs for regions uppah,
When sad or sore distressed,
Should bolt a heavy suppah,
And then—retire to Rest.
BY PROXY.
SHE: “ You seem to know a lot about married life."
HE: “ Oh, rather! You see, my father's been through it twice."
It is late now for Jubilee items ; but this,
from Kalgoorlie Miner’s account of local cele-
brations, must be permitted to earn the meed of a
loyal tear: —
Amongst the many attractions of last evening must be
mentioned the business premises of Messrs W. Byers,
Wood & Co., wholesale and retail butchers, of Hannan-
streei, whose windows very deservedly attracted a great
deal of attention on account of a number of miscellaneous
novelties on view, composed principally of mutton fat,
the whole of which were tastefully set-off by a very
cleverly-designed and realistic representation of London
Bridge. Two nicely-dressed saddles of mutton, one with
a model of the Queen on the Throne, and the Premiers
kneeling at her feet.
Queen Victoria in mutton-fat, on a throne of
ditto, with Premiers of ditto kneeling around
her ! —all as decorations to “ a nicely-dressed
saddle of mutton ”! This is—yes, this is the
ne plus ultra of Jubilee !
* • * •
Melbourne surgeon O’Hara the other day
operated on a young woman for a sort of queer
movable tumor of the stomach. When opened up
the stomach was found absolutely clogged with a
solid mass of hair, which was an exact cast of the
stomach in shape, and scaled 21b. The woman
had been suffering from gastric ulcer, which caused
a morbid appetite, and set her pulling out and
eating her own hair, much as horses and cows take
to eating flesh in cases of stomach-disorders, and
as children take to eating dirt and chunks of iron.
* ♦ ♦ *
Dr. O’Hara’s Alfred Hospital opera-
tion was paralleled in New South Wales a few
years back. A ruminative, long-bearded team-
ster in the Darling country used to turn up
his whiskers and chew the ends of them as he
made his weary journeys through the Never
Never, until eventually he accumulated a ball of
the chewings in an awkward place. He became
leaner than ever, and the violent pains at length
weed him to consult Dr. Blaxland, who operated
y opening the stomach at Broken Hill Hospital.
* * * *
“ Big fleas have little fleas,” &c. Sydney’s
city-surveyor appears to have returned from his
European inspection of slaughter houses, and such,
in a gorgeously grand-ducal frame of mind. After-
presenting the Orizaba’s purser, at the Town Hall,
with an address from the saloon passengers—in-
cluding himself and two other (Indian) princes—
the lordly stink-superviser, in replying to the
toast of his health, “took occasion to thank the
officers of his department for the loyal support,”
&c. Our Throne and Person, as it were !
• * * *
The Sydney City Surveyor, judging from
a published interview, has brought back with him
from Europe a large assortment of garbage-news
and other intelligence. It is quite a cosmopolitan
assortment, too. One item is about the way the
city refuse of London is picked over by women in
search of old iron and other marketable items. In
Paris, too, the woman question bumped up
severely against Mr. Richards; in that beauti-
ful city he found the Gay Parisienne en-
gaged in killing and scalding pigs and
seraping the bristle off the defunct grunter.
He noticed that the gentle sex battered the pig to
death in a very brutal and unscientific manner.
This item of intelligence quite spoiled The Bul-
letin’s enjoyment of Williamson’s recent bur-
lesque at Her Majesty’s. Every time this paper
looked at the Gay Parisienne its thoughts drifted
away to the other French lady—the one who
makes an honest living by belting the pig into an
early grave and then shaving the corpse.
* * # *
Extract from Premier Turner’s speech to
the Australian Natives of St. Kilda : “ I can
assure you there is a very great difference between
the way in which ive drink healths here and the
way they are drunk amongst the stately old gentle-
men at the dinners in England. (A voice : ‘ Ours
is the proper way j. They won’t even stand up to
them. The only toast they do stand up to
is that of the Queen (hear, hear)—and even then,
as I took occasion to tell them, they could not,
with the Queen in their midst, give nearly as
cordial, as hearty, a reception to that toast as we do
in the colonies, although most men here have never
had the privilege and pleasure of seeing her. 1 ’
(Cheers.) How very sad. The Bulletin takes
occasion to repeat the London Referee's remark
that Australia is “ ten times more fervently loyal ”
than Great Britain.
Majah Reay (of Melb ’Erald), in one of
his last letters from London, sought public sym-
pathy for “ poor ” Premier Turner by quoting a
round of daily “duties” from his Jubilee engage-
ment-book. As follows
J U’NK 29.
10.30. —Reception, Mrs. Brassey.
9 a.m.—lnterview, Reuter.
9.30. ~ Gregory.
10.30. —Empire League, water party, Thames.
2 p.m.—Mr. Astor—Reception and garden party at
Cliveden.
7.30. —Dominion Day dinner.
10.30. —Marchioness Lansdown Reception.
June 30.
9 a.rn.—Meeting of Premiers.
9.30. —lnterview, Levi.
10.— ~ Daily News.
10.30. ~ Lafayette (photographer).
12 p.m.—Speech Day at Harrow.
12.25.—Earl of Onslow’s reception at Osterly.
6.—Masonic dinner.
8.15.—Mr. Chamberlain’s dinner.
8.30. University College ~
10.30. —Mrs. Chamberlain’s reception.
10.45. —Countess of Derby ~
When the grains of duty are sifted from the chaff
of social fiddledee Turner’s hard work seems to
have been mostly of his own seeking. What on
earth had his “duty ”to do with all those recep
tions and dinners ? And the interviews with th
e
LIFE’S BIDDLE.
She:
My love, 1 love thee well;
For thee I’d go to helL
He :
My love, I’ve loved thee well;
For thee I am in hell.
It:
Ha, ha ! They’ve found it out—
Love, Heaven, Hell—then Doubt t
X.Z.
TURNER AT ’OME.
George Turner, whilst in London town,
Was quartered at a fine hotel;
He charged expenses to the Crown
Like any bigger “blooming” swell ;
He went for royal-carriage drives,
Saluted by the passing throng;
He met some dukes whose gracious wives
Were dreams of style and bongy tong.
But Turner hates to play the snob,
And though ’tis true he “gagged” his part
By throwing kisses to the mob,
He threw ’em with an aching heart:
For Turner all the time, yersee,
Was just the same as he used to be.
A flunkey clad in royal red,
A cringing creature, fine and large,
With powder plastered on his head,
Attended Turner free of charge ;
A footman stood behind his chair,
Which hurt his feelings, more or less ;
A valet tracked him to his lair
And tried to show him how to dress.
And O ! the etiquette at Court
(Where, in a sense, he had to go)
Was not his democratic “ sort,”
And honestly he told ’em so :
For George, throughout the Jubilee,
Was just the same as he used to be.
He dined with “ nobs ” of rank and wealth,
Whose names he cannot now recall,
And when they drank the Monarch’s health
They didn’t make a fuss at all ;
Their mode of “ honoring the Queen ”
Brought blushes into George’s face,
They stared at his excited mien
As though they thought it out of place.
He waved his napkin left and right,
Disdainful of their solemn stnile,
And sang “ Gorsave ” with all his might
In loyal Melbourne-banquet style :
For Turner, while at ’Otne, yersee,
Was quite the same as he used to be.


A LADY AT LYNDHURST, N.S.W..
CURED AFTER 16 YEARS’ SUFFERING.
Rockdale, Lyndhurst, N.S.W.,
11th Aug., 1897.
Manager,
Loasby’s “ Wahoo ” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
Dear Sir,—After suffering for sixteen years from
Indigestion and Liver Complaint, your remedy
“WAHOO” has cured me in a few days. I can’t
thank you sufficiently for this great relief. “ WA-
HOO” has restored my appetite, and the fearful
pains after eating are a past experience. I have
completely shaken off the tired feeling which made
my household work a burden. My husband has also
derived great benefit from LOASBY’s “ WAHOO.”
Yours very sincerely,
E. HINES.
WAHOO!
Price 2 6, from all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or Post Free from
Loasby’s “Wahoo” Mfg. Co., Ltd.,
171 Kent-street, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from Merchants and Wholesale Chemists.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
ate highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free hi/ post throur/hout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane fi’land.
■o OSE S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
HAS NO EQUAL
For Sandy Blight, Sore and Inflamed Eyes, Dimness of
Sight, Granulations, &c. Recommended by the Lead-
ing Sydney Oculists. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Storekeepers. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney. SSS?" Open all
Night—also Sundays and Holidays.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had post free : or 1/3. Senior,
chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
photographer, who “took” George in Windsor
uniform !
* * * *
Upon the return of John and Mrs. Forrest from England
the Morning Herald, Perth, printed the following
nauseous par. : “ . . . A representative of the Morn-
ing Herald sought an interview with Mrs. Forrest on
board the R.M.S. Himalaya, and was fortunate in being
able, on behalf of the press of the colony, to welcome back
to Western Australia the kind-hearted and amiable wife
of the Premier. Mrs. Forrest, notwithstanding her con-
stant companionship and friendship during the last few
months with some of the highest of the aristocracy, has
returned to her colony the same kind, genial, happy, un-
•assuming lady who left it. . . .”
According to the Registrar-General’s re-
turns, Queensland marriages and births for the
last year have decreased on the previous year’s
record, while deaths have increased. However,
the increase in Jap. immigration will square
matters
“ SYMPATHY."
“I say, Mister, did your mother make your
trousers too?”
At the Grand Hotel, Thursday Island,
there is a Jap. chamber-maid, Malay waiter,
Manilla cook, Malay yard-man, and several Japs,
working about the house.. One white girl is em-
ployed —as barmaid.
* * * *
At Sydney R.C. Cathedral, the other day,
Rev. O’Farrell blew a warning blast about the
books of bold, bad women—which “he regretted
to observe were most extensively read by members
of the same sex.” And the good, easy man actually
expected to choke-off the female faithful by the
further information that these books were “full
of baleful immorality.” When will clerics know
anything of petticoated human nature ?
* # * »
A well-paid Melb. municipal official has
just insolvented. Assets, four canaries.
In the Melb. Charity Organisation Society’s
report just issued there is an amusing catalogue of
initialled impostors. One is “ a journalist,” who,
it is reported, “ wears kid gloves and rides in han-
soms.” Of course he “ Drinks.”
A corres-
pondent Th e
chief reason for
the rapid head-
way made in
Sydney by the
alien is that no
ma 11 e r h o w
small the pur-
chase, he invari-
ably treats his
customers with
the utmost cour-
tesy—in their
presence. He
may make nasty
remarks and
faces after wards,
but, while doing
business, he is
politeness itself,
and, if he marks
a pack of cards
one penny, he is
content to sell
it for that, wrap
it up neatly, and
hand it oyer
with a smile.
And, to the
poorer class of
purchasers, peo-
ple who have to
buy by three-
pennyworths
and to whom
the spending
of half-a-crown
is a great luxury,
this civility is
very dear.
Melb. : “Mrs. Harrison Lee vigorously
prosecutes her Physiologico-Marital campaign, in
the Hen Conventions. Makes me think, some-
how, of the Bishop, who was noticed slyly to
pepper his orange at an evening party, as a morti-
fication of the Flesh,”
* * * *
Melb. : “Last night I was praising the
Salvation Army’s philanthropy to a well-known
city missionary. It roused his vituperation—-I
must use that word to express the heat of his
attack. As religion, the Army was to him hum-
bug all round, a business concern of wooden nut-
megs, ably handled, and he said the Workmen’s
Metropole was rampant with favoritism —often a
difficulty for the bona-fide pauper to get a chance
of splitting scwt. of wood for a threepenny meal !
‘Yes,’ said he, ‘the man in charge insists on
scwt.’ Nor does Pastor Edgar's Mission fare
better under the lash of this opposition man. All
which leads me to reflect again on the false basis
of dogmatic establishments propping themselves
by charitable side-shows. Why should Govt,
refer needy citizens to any religious organisation?
Handy, no doubt.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Three little girls walked
into my office the other day selling tickets for a
raffle of a valuable gold ring, in aid of St. Vincent’s
new convent, at Id. each. The tickets of the last
seller were numbered over 2000. I wonder did
they start at No. 1, and where did they finish ?
A valuable gold ring to be raffled at one penny a
member for the honor of the Lord ! — One op the
Faithful, Sydney.
* * * *
Be suppressed official reports. The
Governor of the day was expected to make
important announcements in his speech at the
opening of the M.L. South Seas Exhibition. The
speech was set up in advance, numbered copies
printed off, and the type redistributed the day
before the opening. The pressmen were to get
copies when the speech was begun— not before —
but one journalist ascertained that the chairman
had allowed a privileged pressman his copy the
day before, and, as the aggrieved one represented
many papers and the privileged man only one
evening paper, he applied to the chairman for his
copy also, but was refused. Thereupon—well,
someone invaded the printing-office where the
speech had been struck off, cut away the backing
on the cylinder of the printing-machine (which
bore on it an impression of the speech), and wired
the thing away as a forecast. Those of his papers
which came out next morning published the full
speech verbatim —as a forecast. Row ? You’d
just better believe there ivas a row. But the
secret never leaked out—till now.
* » * *
A study in abbreviation. Sydney Daily
Telegraph advt. :
2Ls. req. L. airy B. and Sit. Room, uned., in Xtian
liny., , , L’hdt, P’sham. 35 Edg’re-rd.,
Enmore.
• • • •
The perils of condensation. Advt. from
recent Sydney daily :
LOST, Bangle, set in diamonds, bet. Blank-st. and
Drum. ; rew. Manse, Blank-st.
Poor, innocent parson !
* * * *
“ Turning the tables ” : an enticing advt.
inS.M. Herald:—
TX7ANTED by domesticated, honest, reliable young
VV Widow from country, without encumbrance,
situation, housekeeper to "one gent., who must be
respectable, subs. pref. State age and creed to Aus-
tralian, Herald.
So in that golden day delectable
It was the man who had to be respectable.
» * * *
“ They have even taxed the perambulator
35 per cent.—the one machine which is really
essential to the working-man. For we are a pro-
THE BIBLE AND THE BIKE.
“This only I know" God hath made man upright; but man hath sought out
many inventions.”— Eccles., chap. v.
lific community, and, as a working-man of my
acquaintance once told me, 4 Matrimonial incon-
tinence is the only thing in life we can really
enjoy.’ ” —Unreported remark of a N.S.W. states-
man’s little brother, at the annual conference of
Vic. Freetrade Democratic Association.
* * • *
A scene, touching enough to bring tears to
the eyes of a potato, was enacted when a certain
Vic. Council met, last week, to elect a Mayor.
One councillor, being pressed to accept the position,
strongly declined, saying he would be the death of
no man, and subsequently explaining that he
had heard Or. Boble intended committing suicide
if he did not get the mayoralty himself. His wife
told him so and he would not accept. Cr. Boble
thereupon had to give an assurance that did
A BACK - YARD IDYLL.
SHE NO. 1: “I do believe this eat is like me."
SHE NO. 2: “ Indeed she is — she’s greedy like you, and she’s wild like you, and
she’s a cranky old thing that growls every time you go near her."
not contemplate suicide, and a Hibernian cotin-
cillor named O’Brady kindly expressed his belief
that suicide was the last thing Cr. Boble would be
guilty of. Then, an assurance being given that
the original councillor could make it all right
with his wife, he blushmgly consented to assume
the robes of office. The struggle for tinpot
dignities .
* * .. . .
The unexpected demise of a Sydney city
magnate has led to some violent disclosures.
Deceased—a pillar of the church, and looked on as
a man of probity—was engaged f<?r some years to
the daughter of a well-known citizen, and kept
putting off his marriage, from time to time, under
various pretexts, including bank failures and busi-
ness troubles. When his estate was being put
through probate, it was found he kept no less
than six establishments going in various fashion-
able suburbs, and not one of his closest friends
ever suspected he kept one!
* * *
The Mercadool alleged dummying eases
have at last taken up quarters within N.S.W.
Supreme Court precincts. When they will get
out no man can tell. It may be remembered that
the preliminary evidence taken over a year ago
covered 2092 pp., and with the documents, letters,
and other necessary annexes, weighed (icwt.
There are 15 cases under the one heading.
* * * •
Eagle Farm Meat Works have secured the
services of a ’cute, up-to-date Yankee named
Hopper. And Hopper refuses to allow the Enog-
gera water near his carcases unless filtered and
purified. But the Brisbane people have to drink
the stuff, although it confessedly isn’t fit to wash
the corpus of a dead bullock.
* * ♦ *
Typhoid is raging just now in S. Brisbane.
One doctor blames the dairies; one blames the
tank water ; and all agree that the Enoggera fluid
is unfit for a decent goat. What are the hapless
Brisbaneites to do ? . . . And the Govt, has just
taxed the beer !
• * * *
Argus advt. :
Gentleman would like to meet lady, middle-aged, with
means, to join as partner in manufacturing business,
view marriage. Honest, Argus office.
Now, what are they going to manufacture with a
view to marriage ?
A Melbourne jury tacked a rider to
its verdict in a recent case —“ In our opinion pro-
fessional etiquette is shown to be detrimental to
patients, and the moral obligations of surgeons
performing operations are not sufficiently mani-
fest.”
* * • *
From the opening sentence of a leading
article in S.M. Herald :
The abuse of the adjournment in the present, session of
the Assembly is such that to be the subject of a motion
is by itself no guarantee of intrinsic importance, but
those who know the place in question will hardly find Mr.
Law’s proceeding or his language too strong.
And yet public school pupils “are frequently re-
quired to parse, aualyse and paraphrase extracts
from S.M. Herald.” .. > Y”j
* * * *
The latest quotation in Sydney for type-
writing, by a competent operator, is 300 words for
a penny, finding machine, paper, and ink. Learn
typewriting, young woman, and earn your own
living !
Dear Bulletin,
—More curious
names: John Bap-
tist (Sydney), Adam
Eves, Orthodoxia
(say) Jones. Odd
firm combinations :
Little and Long,
Brown and Tough,
Scarlette and Grey,
Farr ahead and
Glowman. Also, re
R.C. baptismal
practice, a member
of that church as-
sures me that the
unwritten rule in
favor of sain t s’
names is chiefly
aimed at the grow-
ing desire of the
Hibernian faithful
to serve up plain
potato with elabor-
ate London Jour-
nal sauce. “ Hugo
Delaqy O’Donnell ”
(actual name) hap-
pens to accord per-
fectly with the his-
torical fitness of
things—but “Mont-
morency Hooligan ”
don’t go ! — Nym.
♦ *
One station in
N. Western N.S.W.
is connected by tele-
phone with its boun-
dary-riders’ camps.
Another has tele-
phone wires run
along each fresh line
of fence erected.
Not to be outdone,
a neighbor, when in-
viting tenders for a
new fence, specified
that a track 2ft.
wide be cleared
along the line to
enable the boun-
dary man to cycle
his rounds.
« *
The housekeep-
er of N.S.W. Par-
liament gets over =£B per week. The scullerymaid
of the Leg. Council gets <£los a year.
* * * m
In a charge recently heard at Redfern
(Sydney) police court, it appeared that an aged
and partially-blind man, who gets his living by
grinding a street organ, is earning from <£l to
SI 10s. per day, is an employer of labor, has a
fair banking-account, and lends money out on
interest! Shemarbonee !
There was once a certain man,
Born almost Westralian :
Lived a clean and godly life,
Had a really charming wife.
There was—twice—a Jubilee
(Second was the biggest spree) :
daily off to London went
Man and wife to represent
Good old Westralia!
Such a time at Home they had !
Banquets, dinners—good and bad—
Dances, parties,* speeches, sprees—
Led a life of gorgeous ease.
Met the Queen and kissed her hand ;
Knew the greatest in the land ;
Drank with princes, dined with peers,
Everywhere received with cheers
Good old Westralia 1
But, alas ! Alaok-a-day !
Time ran on ; they could not stay,
Though, through mixing with “the Best,”
“ Style ’ and “ culture ” was impressed
Daily more and more on both.
These advantages, much loth,
They relinquished—had to go ;
Duly reached—per P. and O.—
Good old Westralia 1
Then the Herald angels sang,
Loud and long their praises rang :
“ God be thanked ! His Nibs is fatter 1
Looks as if he but, no matter !
Oh ! and can this really be
Mrs. Forrest? Yes! ’Tis she !
Why, we never would have thought
A trip Home such health had brought!
Good old Westralia ”
Then, in pieans swift ascending :
“ Is she not quite condescending?
Still kind, genial, unassuming,
All in spite of London booming.
Heaven bless her ! This true bliss is ;
There’s no ‘ side ’ about the missis 1
Shout ‘ Hurrah ! ’ and doff your ‘ cady
Mrs. F. is still a lady !
Good old Westralla!”


Important Announcement to our City **id Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture <6 Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted bv
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff
tsr Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanoed on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories oarefully prepared.
W*Bnm Bbadley A Co., 324 Oeorsre-st.
© ©
6
jftJM-ybuc}
eh
mmi
ssssas
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 7, 1897.
Mt Dear Mtke—
The charming way in which Premier Reid pub-
licly spoke of his wife must have absolutely
thrilled that lady. Compared to the delights of
her society the glitter of the Imperial Jubilee was
dust and ashes. And the homely way in which
little boy Reid said “ Why, here’s Dada ! ” was
good to hear, and showed that Reid, junior, has a
correct and proper appreciation of his Dad’s im-
portance as justifying all the fuss of the reception.
Altogether, the flashlight glimpse of Premier
Reid’s domestic life is a thing of beauty and a
bright and proper example to all men.
The Federal Convention delegates and their
wives and daughters are steadily working their
way through the amusements got up in their honor.
Five important, though more or less gloomy,
items have been already ticked off. After the
conversazione and gymkhana, I really begin to
have doubts about the wild hilarity of a garden-
party at Buckingham Palace, or the thrilling
martial combats at Islington. On Friday night,
the company seemed to be making merry by Act
of Parliament. The Town Hall was crowded, and
the Govt, did the thing in style. Colors of all the
provinces were represented in the decorations, and
musicians warblea and tootled away among palm-
branches, but nobody marked them in the buzz of
talk. Stars and ribbons and bullion embroidery
were sprinkled about freely on dress-coats ; among
so much glitter, Mr. Reid’s plain, unadorned,
black coat, now enclosing a rather reduced Pre-
mier, seemed quite distinguished.
All the local magnates and interprovincial visi-
tors were favored with swell blue-satin pro-
grammes, distributed with much grace by Mr.
Calvert. The celebrated Victorian good taste
wasn’t apparent in the costumes from that pro-
vince, but it was not a best-frock occasion. Vic-
toria sends the most imposing contingent—in-
cluding the tallest lady, the handsome Mrs.
and Miss Claire Berry (Vic.) and Miss
Fysh (Tas.) share honors as the pretty girls of the
troupe. The Vic. Premier has not brought his
wife, and is rarely seen at these parties; and, when
he does appear, few recognise him in his new
shave. Mrs. Reid looked bright and youthful in
white satin. Miss Brand and Miss Darley wore
familiar frocks of white over yellow. A few—
very few—diamonds glistened; but Mrs. Ferguson
had hers_ “ all on,” which more than atoned for
deficiencies in other quarters ; and a blue-brocaded
lady with rose-trimmings shone satisfactorily.
The Adelaide Govt. House contingent played the
modest violet’s part—it is always hard to pick
’em out in a throng. They have "the sort of /aces
one forgets easily.
On Saturday afternoon horseback sports took
place at the Agricultural Grounds, large blank
spaces in the programme being filled in with tug-
of-war. _ Indeed, that thrilling sport was the
biggest item of the afternoon, except a prettily-
manoeuvred horse-back quadrille danced by seven
couples to band-music. Except one terrified lady,
they all rode with nerve, and the leading horse-
woman was given a bangle. She wore a natty
habit of brown tweed made with up-to-date long
coat, and when dismounted her short skirt showed
a neat top-boot. Distinguished visitors viewed
the games from the new stand (the only place at
those badly-planned grounds where one can see
anything), and at tea-time proceshed solemnly
along between rows of interested starers to the
bun-stall. The combination of cold charity with
chilly sassiety reduced the temperature much
below zero. Consumptives under vice regal pat-
ronage, and orphans adopted by the Kilburn
sisters, are to be benefited by the “ gate.”
One of the Convention visitors is a belle of yes-
ter-year. She is the original of the story which
still goes the rounds about the snubbing of a cer-
tain British nobleman. Lord K (then known
by another title) was attentive to her at a ball,
asked her to dance, and was so astonished at her
refusing that he remarked in remonstrance, “ You
don’t often dance with a lord, you know.” “No,”
she retorted, “I always dance "with gentlemen.”’
Quite the gayest of all Federal shivoos to date
was the theatre-party at Her Majesty’s on Mon-
day, when all the Conventioners and their belong-
ings saw the “ French Maid ” at Govt, expense.
The d.c. was crowded and there was a buzz of
excitement which the actors seemed to feel, for
the piece hummed brightly, and when things
were dragging a little, the Vic. Chief Secre-
tary’s laugh went off as though he didn’t
know it was loaded and woke up drones of dele-
gates in the back seats. Shand, John Coleman,
and Howard Vernon worked some apt gags into
their topical song, which made the hit of the piece.
Ada Willoughby got a basket of flowers about the
size of a flower-stall at a fancy fair ; the offering
came from the back of the stalls. The latest
notion in pleated silk was worn as opera-wraps by
two girls on the stage. Juliet Wray has come out
strong in style in this piece, her flounced silk
skirt and chiffon bodice look snappy. Miss Sey-
mour has her front hair draped like window-
curtains, and consequently a new face.
The Government’s little supper came off after
the Federal Theatre party. About 140 guests
trooped along Pitt-street to the new Cafe, and
found there a cold refection awaiting them in an
upstairs room. It was an informal meal, with
plenty chatter and champagne, but no toasts or
talking. At the top table, where the bigwigs sat,
nearly every woman was in black except Mrs.’
Reid and Mrs. Ferguson; all the “Sirs’” wives
wore the tony color. A Tasmanian dame had
some eye-catching jewels on. An Adelaide girl,
who is always noticed as a belle, fairly acted the
part; a Vic. official’s wife had a bodice trimmed
with rocky little pearls ; and the Mayoress in
black, sat among strangers in a far corner. An
agitated person called loudly on the Mayor to
pome up higher, but he modestly declined. There
is now no stiffness among the Federals—the mem-
bers all got to know each other m Adelaide, where
the ice was nicely broken.
The ladies’ gallery is quite, or almost, empty
during the Convention sittings. We are not
educated up to politics like the S. A. women, who
used to crowd in when the delegates met in
Adelaide.
A man now staying here on public business has
taken great pains to make sure that no lady-
namesake of his own happens to be lodging at the
hotel where he is putting up this time. When he
was in Adelaide thing's were awkward for him
owing to a complication of the kind. A total
stranger with the same name as his wife—whom
he had left behind—boarded at the same place as
he did, and, just because she happened to be there,
managed to get invitations to many shivoos, being
mistaken for the absent lady.
The Hambourg season ended on Saturday even-
ing in a blaze of triumph. The city’s musical public
chose by vote the items Mark performed, and im-
posed on the pianist a stiff contract. A pro-
gramme, including the most complicated of all the
Beethoven sonatas, a tremendous concerto, the
little things of the performer’s own, and sundries,
is rather a large order, but Mark filled the bill so
well that his last concert holds the local record as
a musical delirium. Everybody there wasn’t a
musician, but everybody understood that there
was something quite out of the common going on
at the “ Concert Grand ” on the platform. And
every man, woman, and child clapped and yelled,
and called the two brothers back again, and
wouldn’t go home until the lights were switched
off, and then they all stood and cheered in the
dark.
Yes, after choosing by vote a high-class list of
classical music in the Hambourg plebiscite, the
public wanted to encore the pieces. They chose
their bill of fare, gorged steadily at every huge
plat, and then wanted a second help. It has been
a sort of wild musical debauch for the past fort-
night, ending up with a special and particular
spree on Saturday night. A public with enough
soul to feel the heart-breaking pathos of the Grey
“ballade” should have more discrimination than
to want to wallow in the anguish twice at a
sitting. Othello doesn’t have to come out and
bow, and smother his wife once more, no matter
how many handkerchiefs in front are wet; little
Stephanus takes only his regulation number of
lashes, nor does Marcus have to carry him off in a
dead faint more than once per evening. Why
should a musician be expected to come back and
boil up his emotions all over again, as if he were
worked by a handle ? Musical audiences haven’t,
as yet, got beyond the monkey-on-an-organ ideal.
The Sydney Gregorian Choral Association,
which was given birth to by the unmarried par-
sons of St. James’, Sydney, affords an exhibition
every Saturday night in that church. Arthur
Smyth, an ex-English organist, presides, and as
one result, Hector Maclean, Principal of the Syd-
ney College of Music, for 20 years the regular
organist of St. James’, has resigned the latter post.
It is reported that Mr. Maclean and a couple of
parsons exchanged compliments and bestowed
sundry caresses on each other before the final
parting.
The two Premiers voyaging hither by the
Miowera made themselves popular on board, so
fellow-passengers report, by not putting on any
“side,” and by taking part in any fun that was
arranged. Premier Kingston shone in ship-board
athletics, joining in all the games with schoolboy
enjoyment, and our own P.C. delighted the com-
pany by nightly warbles in the concert-room.
“When the N.S.W. Lancers arrived at Vic-
toria Barracks,” writes a correspondent of mine,
“ they formed up for inspection on the green, and
the P.A. band played. The inspecting-officer ad-
vanced and shook hands cordially with the
trumpeter, fixed his eye-glasses, and admiringly
examined through them the boy’s jubilee medal
Where does military etiquette come in ? General
Hutton wouldn’t have broken through discipline
to that extent, even if his own son had been the
bugler. ”
In connection with the “Lady Smith lodge,”
Her Ex. of Westralia issued invitations for an “at-
home ” to all the women and girls employed by
Pefth business houses—which caused a small storm
in a tea-cup. Some of the girls, knowing the Smith
lodge to be a semi-charitable home, felt inclined to
refuse the invitation, but were called upon and
persuaded by the rev. founder of the lodge;
some considered the proffered feast to be too much
m the way of charity and obdurately stayed away.
In the end the festivity came off with about 80
of a congregation. The Smith lodge was founded
with the object of providing cheap and reliable
board and lodging for new-arrived women in
Perth by the Sisters of the People,” a Wesleyan
sisterhood who made “ Sister Lizzie,” a crony of
her ladyship’s, matron of the institution.
Mrs. Neville Cohen’s garden-fair was opened on
Tuesday at Liverynga, Elizabeth Bay. A high-
toned crowd was there, who bought and sold
various fancy small goods in the interests of the
much-begged-for Consumptive Home. The pro-
moters worked hard to make the bazaar go, and,
although the opening was damped by the weather’
the money-bags were fairly well filled.
In a town up North there is established the
basis of a big hospital row, now simmering in the
local paper. The fuss was occasioned—so lam
assured in a ream of foolscap, just to hand—by
the arrival of a fractious matron, who “ won’t give
afternoon - teas and oyster-suppers to the com-
mittee-men, as a predecessor used to do.”
Two women’s associations in the city are making
bids for increased popularity just now by exactly
opposite methods. One, the Women’s Literary
Society, which has been wobbling for two years
past, is trying to show itself up by asking for
fresh subscriptions at reduced rates. It seems to
have fallen behind in the march, and can’t rouse
up much outside interest in its proceedings. The
Victoria Club begins its second year—its career
started last October—by hinting that more Salonite
shekels will probably be demanded from members
to bring them up to their fair share of working-
expenses. The crux in the management of the
Bhillip-street nunnery seems to be that it is run as
a swell boarding-house and intellectual battle-
ground combined. Salonites are going to give a
party at the end of the month to all the vocalists,
pianists, and other musicians who have assisted at
the weekly tea-struggles during the year. For
this artistic breakfast, it seems sordid for the
prospectus to remark the subscription will be a
florin.
The latest New Woman idea is a crbche on a
commercial, instead of the usual charity basis, for
the benefit of the common or garden variety of
house-mother, where children can be left, for a
small charge, on washing or shopping days, or
when she wants to go out to see a fellow. The
idea should go.
What a knowing little product is the up-to-date
girl child. I saw a stage-full of her at Clitherow’s
performance of “Oliver Twist,” at the Gaiety
iheatre, arranged in an infantile “ push ” of pick-
pockets. Several of the kiddies, arranged in
minute coster suits or rags-and-tatters, sang and
danced with great confidence and agility. The
programme was filled out with detached scenes by
adult pupils. The “closet scene” brought for-
ward an amateur Hamlet, with a flaxen wi(j. tin
sword, and a heavy scowl; a graceful Queen Ger-
trude in a gorgeous blue brocade, and the majesty
of buried Denmark all white and silver like a huge
wedding-cake.
The Anglican bishops have evidently decided to
shed their influence over as wide a sphere as
possible ; no two return to Australia in the same
ship. Importance in this case depends upon isola-
tion—or is it that one Jonah is quite sufficient for
one boat? Perhaps the “ eternal feminine” is the
cause. No ship yet built is big enough for two
bishops’ wives.
VVrites my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Love at first sight is apparently not quite an
extinct phenomenon, as proved by a recent Melb.
marriage. The bride is the daughter of a courtly
old Anglican canon, who died a while back, and
is commemorated in more than one metropolitan
church by a bust or medallion-head. All the days
of her youth the parson’s dutiful lass had devoted
herself to her father and numerous brothers, one
of whom, by the way, went blind in early man-
hood, but secured a wife nevertheless, and has
never seen any of his children. However, to
return to the love-match and the heroine thereof :
after her father’s death and the marriage of all her
juniors, she found herself in not too affluent cir-
cumstances. Early this year she was besieged by
an unexpected suitor just her own age, endowed
with ample means, but whom she had never talked
to for one hour on end in her life. It’s ill flying
in the face of Fate, so all well-wishers were pleased
to hear the wedding-bells ring out merrily on
behalf of the autumnal lovers, and to learn that,
up to the present, they look like ‘living happily
ever afterwards.’
“ Now that the Madonna style of dressing hair
is the height of the fashion, hard-upstage-heroines
will have to discover some less modish coiffure as
a medium for expressing chastened sweetness. In
the ‘Lights o’ London,’ for instance, Miss
Emilie Hughes, as Bess Marks, in the thick of her
troubles, is pathetically slim in a close-fitting
tweed Princess robe, and convincingly pale of
countenance. But her artistically crimped auburn
bandeaux divert the feminine onlooker’s sympa-
thies, and set her wondering how the distressed
damsel slipped so quickly into the new way of
doing her hair, and whether, like Melb. society-
leaders, she gets it thoroughly rippled by the hair-
dresser every three weeks, and no oftener, for fear
of weakening its growth, or whether she uses one
of the new ‘wavers.’ The difficulty of the latest
phase of crimp lies in its smooth immaculate
glossiness.
“ Most of the characters pourtrayed in the
Lights o’ London ’ are so hopelessly hard-up that
its wardrobe display runs almost exclusively to
Gampish shawls, slop-made ulsters, bung boots,
and convict costumes. The only two who get any
joy out of their clothes are villain Diver and the
bad beauty (Miss Lilian Wheeler), who supplies
the womanly element in the former’s gilded haunts
of vice, otherwise his villa in St. John’s Wood.
With ill-judged economy, the he-partner in this
unhallowed alliance speedily relapses into the old
brown pants of his penniless youth and innocence,
but Hetty Preene (by the way, in private life she
stoutly denies the sweet impeachment of being an
heiress) gets some solid satisfaction out of her
shame in the shape of the stolen ‘ diamonds,’
which look more like jet, and a fascinating dinner
frock. 1 his well-cut garment is rosy as sin, strewn
with strawberry-colored blobs and sleeved with
garnet-spangled net.
Persecuted hero Rignold is handicapped, so
far as looks go, by his enforced patronage of old
clo shops. As a large-sized victim, he fills his
shrunk second-hand duds chockfull, and, in con-
sequence, even when moribund from starvation, is
consolingly pudding-like in contour. It’s just as
well, perhaps, for, as it is, the audience weeps its
nose quite shiny enough over the troubles of him
and his ‘ darling Bess.’ The other night, when a
perjured minion told wicked stories of G. R.,
accusing him of clubbing his very own Dad and
bolting with his dead Ma’s trinkets, a hysterical
voice testified shrilly from the circle ‘ He did not!’
“The U.S.A. consul, his wife, and Maratta,
junior, are leaving Melb. for the Pacific slope in a
week or two. Patriotic Americans argue elo-
quently that Uncle Sam’s traditional comic-paper
peculiarities are traveller’s tales and popular
delusions, but we know better than that after
having cheery Mr. Maratta in our midst as a
sample. With his goatee beard, incessant throat-
grating ‘hr-r r-mph,’ upper-lip shaven the better
to display the cigar or tooth-quill always gripped
between his teeth, and out-and-out nasal accent,
he only differs from the conventional stage Yankee
m being stout and ruddy instead of lank and sal-
j'j- rs ' Maratta is a crisp young matron,
addicted to smart coats and skirts and armed
with a less-decided twang than her husband’s
<l The 1600 would-be dancers who assembled at
Melb. Mayor Strong’s annual ball last week had
to wait until 9.20 before Gov. Brassey arrived to
give the thing a start, despite the fact that the
tickets said ‘ Dancing at 8.30.’ Surely it is time
that even the Nicest kicked against the continual
vice-regal boorishness which does not hesitate to
keep guests and audiences in cold and idleness
sometimes for an hour at a stretch. Looked at
from any point of view, this inconsiderateness is
nothing but an insult to the host and a nuisance to
the guests.
The Nicest, it is true, were conspicuously
absent from the Mayor’s ball, but there was a
really good show of second-sassiety folk among
the 1700 who didn’t stop away. His Ex. brought
the whole staff, with the exception of Lord
Shaftesbury, who has disappeared from the ken of
Melbourne in a mysterious fashion for the last few
weeks. Lady 8., looking still very wan after her
nb breakage, was garbed in mustard-yellow, and
muffled up with chiffon and an indifferent feather
boa. She strolled through a square in a stiff-
necked, invalidish manner, and then departed.
The others hung out for two more sets, after which
they were led to the special supper-rooin, eagerly
tracked up by a mob of watchful commoners, so
that when the councillors with their belong-
ings arrived at the sanctum, by .special invita-
tion, to take fizz with the Gov., they found every
inch of elbow-room fully occupied With much
muttering, and, after a few hopeless efforts to
force the position, the discomfited ones backed
out of the struggle. The unholy rush and fight
for a glass of wine or champagne, the latter not
being procurable down-stairs, lasted the greater
part of the night. Another unlovely incident was
provided by a clique who formed an exclusive set
of Lancers. Two more couples took up places
here before the dance began, but, in turning with
corners, the clique ignored these strangers, and
passed them by to revolve with their own particu-
lar friends. The dressing varied. Some gowns
were gorgeous, others appeared to be relics of a
decade or two ago. The Mayoress went in for
lettuce - green plastered with scarlet. Mrs.
Freeman-Thomas aired lavender raiment that had
done some previous service. Mrs. Premier Turner
sported the much-lauded black dress in which she
appeared before Her Gracious, also a diamond
tiara reposed among her Jubilee locks. But the
sensation of the evening was the wife of a eoun-
cillor, who came in the character of a rainbow. A
bright pink gown had stripes of gray, green, and
red chiffon spoke-wise down the skirt, the bodica
being fixed up with the same. Glimpses of yellow
and another tone were thrown promiscuously into
all this glory. A floppily-got-up maiden, the sister
of a medico, had her hair half falling down in
Potteresque disarray, and seemed to be draped in
a curtain. Lady Holled Smith wore bilious green,
and Miss Turner flourished round in her presenta-
tion frock of white satin with pink sleeves. Mrs.
L. L. Smith, not to be behind, aired once again
her court gown, stiff with gold embroidery ; and
Mrs. Snowden came out in new and gorgeous array
of pink, relieved by fixings of black net.
“At a yachting reunion in one of the Austra-
lia last year it was decided that the necessary
refreshments should be contributed by members of
the club, and, as the Governor of the province was
one of these, great things were expected to ensue.
When the time came for receiving the edibles,
hovvever, the biggest gift was a demijohn of
whisky and a score of turkeys from a certain
munificent millionaire, while the gubernatorial
gift was—a bottle of sherry.
“ The opening of the cookery-school of Miss
Rose Clarke (daughter of the late Marcus
Clarke), at My lb. Gas Co.’s buildings, last
week, was an imposing function, attended by a
fair proportion of fashionable Melb. The veteran
Dr. Neild occupied ‘ the chair,’and his eulogies
of a huge pie—about 4ft. in diameter—led to a
glorious anti-climax. After everything had
been well and truly cooked, Miss Clarke put
it to the assemblage, and had it carried unani-
mously, that the culinary triumph should be
presented to the ‘chairman.’ The spectacle of the
old gentleman making his way homeward along
i linders-street with a gigantic pie in his arms a
few minutes later was a sight for the gods.
“ Some of the more conservative and costly of
Melb. drapery firms are hard put to it sometimes
by the competition of big jack-of-all-trades empo-
riums. Occasionally, however, when a wedding
or similar domestic upheaval crops up, customers
put cheapness in the background for once, and
determine to do the thing in style. Just now, a
trousseau on the tapis at Robertson and Moffat’s
is that of Miss Pollie M‘Nicol, who rejoices in a
father connected with something paying and pas-
toral in N.S. Wales. The wedding-gown is to be
a creation of richest bengaline and chiffon; the
going-away frock, fawn silk-canvas over pink silk,
guipured ad lib. The four bridesmaids have
chosen white silk, with magnificent pink moire
sashes, and leghorn hats all ostrich plumes and
blush roses. The breakfast is to happen at‘The
Grand,’and then the principal characters will pro-
ceed to their quiet up-country home, somewhere
on the S.A. side.
“On a recent Monday, Austral Salonists were
in an extra talkative mood ; probably they were
still fussing over that ill-advised, roped-in space
on vice-regal-visit night. The performers for the
day complained to their hostess that their efforts
were drowned in the buzz of internecine strife ;
at least, it sounded like that. Then the hon. sec.
scaled the platform and talked to the culprits like
a mother-in-law, reminding them that they were
‘ supposed to be cultured women ’ ! This remon-
strance would most likely have fallen on stony
ground, only just about that time a delicious
rumor began to spread from one to another,
naming the longed-for visit of Julius Knight and
Miss Ferrar to the Salon as a certainty for Mon-
day (Aug 30th).
“On Aug. 30 Austral Salonites stood on chairs
and levered obstructions out of the way with um-
brellas, so eager were they to gloat uninterruptedly
over the lions of the afternoon, Julius Knight and
Berenis Elliott-Page.
“ Marcus Superbus, with his lights, I mean legs,
hidden under bushels, and a flowing rain-cloak as
a poor substitute for spangled draperies, fell like a
splash of cold water on the expectant community.
But after the first disappointment, his personal
magnetism re-asserted itself, and intent gazers,
forgetting that his curls were thinning atop and
that he was shorter than they imagined, fell
to praising his lack of conceit and his ‘ dear,
sweet, mobile, expressive, refined mouth.’ Miss
Elliott-Page, who, even without her tall plumed
hat, towered inches above her escort, wore under
her crimson cloak a smart silk blouse in big black
and white checks, and lashings of red chiffon.
Both visitors bore up smilingly under the
amateur insipidities of a company of more or less
well-dressed Salon mummers, and contributed to
the Lost Dogs’ Home before leaving. This
canine ‘charity,’ by the way, is a pet scheme of
‘Ada Cambridge,’ the authoress of ‘Three Miss
Kings,’ &c. She was at the Salon herself that
day ; and, as an additional attraction, there was a
strong programme, contributed to by Napoleon
Boffard, Ernest Fitts, Charlotte Hemming, Ade-
laide Bruce, Gertie Summerhayes, and Miss
Bishop, a new and promising contralto.
“ Mr. M'Evoy, owner of Legs, is to be com-
miserated with. His chance of vvinning the
Ladies’ Bracelet with that animal at the fashion-
able Findon Harriers meeting was second to none,
but ‘ Lady so-and-so's ’ or ‘ Honorable Mrs. so-
and-so’s Legs ’ was too dreadful, my dear ! and
poor Mr. M‘Evoy failed to get a nominator. Had
a man of resource owned the prad, a certain bur-
lesque artiste would probably have annexed the
stake, and certainly got a much-needed ad. into
the bargain.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Want has been
laid up of late with a very stiff neck. King Jack
has a chronic stiff neck, but it generally lays up
only his enemies.
Attorney-General Want insisted that his
late illness should be described as rheumatism in
the muscles at the back of his head. He didn’t
like to say “ A Crick in the neck.”


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. ■
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £l/. Is.
Catalogues Free.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
875 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
CWASb
Ira
i
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE
W BALCHIN, Ltd., Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Ben Tillett is suggestive of Kyrle Bellew,
to Melb. Labor people.
The Wesleyan pastor who pioneered Cool-
gardie “got a big congregation, after he took two
typhoid patients into his tent.
A few N.S.W. Chief-Justices : Dowling
was English-born ; Martin and Darley, Irish ;
Forbes and Stephen, West-Indian. Dickinson,
who acted a while as Chief, was also West-Ihdian.
Premier Kingston shook hands with the
Prince of Wales the other day, and now someone
writes to an Adelaide paper, bitterly complaining
of the disgraceful state of the Premier’s front-
garden fence.
“HIS ONLY PAIR.”
The oldest solicitor now on the Tasmanian
Rolls is Adye Douglas, President of the Leg.
Council and member of the Federal Convention.
He was admitted in 1839. The next is John
Roberts, admitted in 1841.
In the flowery speech which Dan O’Connor
made at Sydney Town Hall, when presenting
Premier Reid with his portrait, the eloquent son
of Erin said that Mr. Reid had risen from the
humblest calling to be the apotheosis of all Britain !
Premier Reid, at the Sydney Town Hall
meeeting, after Dan O’Connor of the flowing beard
had drivelled over him, and greased him, and
“ slithered ” him generally : “I believe it is the
penalty of a man in my position to be done m oils.
Ex-Governor Broome’s widow, who re-
ceives i>loo a year pension for the late Governor’s
services in .Westralia and elsewhere, is a mesmerist
of considerable ability and highly proficient in the
mysteries of occultism in general. She was a
widow when Broome married her. Both husbands
were addicted to poetry.
Generous men, even his enemies, feel
sympathy for Q. Acting-Premier Tozer just now.
He has a peck of troubles on him. A son recently
died of phthisis, a daughter is slowly dying of the
same disease, and another son was the other day
internally injured in a football-match.
Purtell, the Melb. bard, whose “ effusions”
are retailed on the street corners at a penny, makes
a poetical appeal for the condemned Bendigo foot-
baller Hall. Purtell’s lyre always twangs loudest
when a noose is in sight, from which fact he has
earned the title of “The Poet Lariat.
The estate of Mat. Larkin, it is announced,
is now in a position to pay a first dividend of Is.
in the £. No less than 17 claims that have been
sent in are from the representatives of suicides or
paupers, made such by the oily gentleman who is
peacefully weaving blankets at Pentridge.
The powers that be of an Australian Uni-
versity have carpeted an eminent professor, to ex-
plain two sequestrations of his estate in less than
six years. As the matter has blown over, it is
assumed that they considered his plea of “mining-
speculation a valid one, and a fatal result as in-
evitable.
The Anglican Canon Grigson, of Towns-
ville, Q., who has gone over to Rome, was
ordained by Bishop Coplestone, of Colombo, and
later was incumbent of Murrurundi, N.S.W. He
would fi"ht shy of women on all occasions, as they
served, he said, to divert his thoughts from his
Master’s bride—the Church.
Rumored that the real reason why Parkes
In marble was substituted for Dickens in marble
at Centennial Park was the alarming “ langwidge
of the novelist’s ghost over the recent bowdlerisa-
tion of his works by N.S.W. prison-authorities.
Effigy for effigy, though, the much-abused Parkes
statue is the less deplorable object of the two.
Noteworthy that not one of the seven Aus-
tralian Premiers is mixed up to any extent with
“religion”—though many of_ their subordinates
are conspicuous for their pulpit predilections, and
nothing else. A few months trial of St. Brunker
has convinced N.S.W. that Parkes, Jock Robert-
son, and Damchicago Dibbs, were infinitely pre-
ferable as Premiers to any person who can only
pray and snuffle for the salvation of his country.
E. J. Brady, who has written so many
breezy and melodious ship ana longshore ditties
for The Bulletin, meditates embodying them in
a volume. Also “ Steele Rudd,” whose Bulletin
sketches, “ On our Selection” have made for their
author a name throughout the land, will, at a not-
distant date, collect and publish his pleasing
soreed.
It is only as a persistent reigner that Her
Gracious holds the record. As an actual Queen,
she started four years later than Isabella of Spain,
who still lives—naughty old girl !—beyond the
radius of the fierce light that beats upon a Throne.
Child and woman, Isabella was a Queen from 1833
to 1868, when Prim and Serrano chased her out
of the country.
Pilcher and Griffith are the only Australian
lawyers barring, possibly, John Dennistoun
Wood—who, in person, argued before the Court of
the Privy Council. Salomons just missed the
chance on one occasion. Griffith appeared in the
great M‘llwraith politics-trust case, and Pilcher,
a few months ago, appeared for the appellant in
Piper v. Bank of N.S.W.
“ Boy-politician” Caulfield’s latest :
But for sipping boiling water regularly every morning
and eating onions daily I would not be alive to-day.
Under which circumstances some people may
regret that Caulfield ever took to onions and boil-
ing water. However, Sydney people still have
something to be thankful for : Mr. Onion-breath
Caulfield is on the other side of the Murray.
People wonder why Barnato committed
suicide. He was very severe on illicit diamond-
buyers (writes “P.A.” to The Bulletin), and
secured the conviction of a number of desperate
scoundrels, who each one swore to kill Barney
when the seven years was up. It was talked of
freely in S. Africa while I was there last year.
Could his suicide have been the outcome of his
ruling passion to forestall the market and do
somebody ?
N. : “An obscure reference, in a recent
Bulletin, was to the demise of Mrs. Wardrop,
widow of Archibald Baird Wardrop. No occasion
to mince. Loyal Liberalism, 30 years ago, put
Wardrop into Parliament for Richmond, the
Melb. suburb. The poor fellow could not keep
alive. Under the glamor which also seized
M‘Cann and Love—their names are public pro-
perty —he got within legal clutches. M'Cann,
under his second name of Neilson, became editor
of San Francisco Examiner.”
The latest story to be fitted-on to the
Prince of Wales (by Sydney D.T. London corres-
pondent) is that of the Sforza who—when his
ducal dignity was hurt by an old acquaintance s
remark that they had both increased a lot round
the equator significantly replied that in that
case the room wasn’t big enough for both / Not
recorded whether the crushed one retired, as
Tummy’B old college friend is alleged to have
done, “immediately and permanently.” English
paragraphy is determined to make Wales witty at
all hazards.
The best work done during the big B.H.
strike of ’92 was the organising of butcheries,
bakeries, stores, &c., in connection with a coupon
system ; the scheme was praised by even the men s
bitterest enemies. The finance committee was
responsible for this; and its secretary and
brightest light was one Trowbridge, then little
more than a lad, but with a genius for account-
ancy and organisation. With others he has had a
hard road to travel since the strike, and latterly
was reduced to driving a cart for a little piggery.
But the piggery collapsed, and then, the other
day, the financial genius blew out his brains.
The Vic. agitation for Bible in
State-schools is headed by two parsons
attached to denominational schools —
Pro. Harper (Presbyterian) and Rev.
Fitchett (Wesleyan). Many followers
of the cult believe that the agitation
will continue till State education is
abandoned, and there is no doubt that
it will. When Judgment Day comes
there will be a pious little band bat-
tering away at the State schools. Their
idea is : Introduce the Bible into State
schools and immediately there is a posi-
tive grievance to replace the, present
negative grievance of the R. C’s. This
would be a lever for a grant to the
Catholics. Immediately, all the other
sects would clamor for a grant, which
would be personally as well as profes-
sionally pleasurable to the reverends m
control.
S.A. House of Assembly is now
far and away the most talkative body
in Australia, and, for its size, the most
talkative body in the world. It has
only 56 members, but it meets at 2 p.m.
and jabbers, on an average, for 10'solid
hours each day, and very often for 12
and 15. This melancholy result is due
to three causes:—1. That the Labor-
party exists under the impression that
its members are paid to talk; 2. that
Wednesdays are given up to private
members ; and last, but not least, that
the Hansard reports are published in
the daily papers.
N.S. Wales Acting-Premier Brunker has
officially minuted that all officers in his depart-
ments who attach their signatures to public docu-
ments shall do so in plainly legible writing. Ihe
minute has knocked the sun out of civil-service
life. Plain writing is the chief est of the Brunkenan
virtues. The Acting-Premier himself writes a
beautiful, round hand like that of a tailors ac-
countant.
“Up our end of the clothes-line,
a blasphemous Bulletin correspondent, “ there’s
a bullocky who has named eight of his cattle atter
the different members of the present JN.b.W.
Ministry. The most awful fact of all is that the
bullocky’s name is Want. We met Want on the
road t’other day painting the atmosphere a deep
crimson, and the last we heard a,s we went over
the hill was—“ Come over, Brunker my gawd,
I’ll kick the blanky stuffin’ out o yer.
“N.”: “ Apropos de-
mised Palmer, Vic. Ser-
geant-at-Arms, with hi s
bloated screw and pension,
as a perfect Donothing-
arian. There is something
rotten in the state of Den-
mark when M’s.P. envy,
not only the officials, but
the very messengers. I
contend that a representa-
tive of the people ought to
be immeasurably superior,
in every point-of view, to
his mere political household
servants. Yet is it not a
fact that the clerks, yea,
the messengers, look down
on him with contempt un-
less he is a rich man, able
to tip them, whether he
does it or not ? Would any
obsequious messenger who
carries the letters about the
House change places with
a member dependent on his
salary ? ”
Ex-Speaker Bird, of
Tasmania, is a man with a
grievance, and his soulful
wail thereupon is almost as
melancholy as Fysh’s story
of “returning prosperity.”
The tale of Vandeinonia’s
cheerless fowl is that he
abdicated his claims on the
Premiership in favor of
Braddon on the tacit un-
derstanding that he would
be Speaker for life, and
through the carelessness of
the Braddon party he was
ejected from his billet.
And now Braddon is TT
Right Hon., P. 0., K.C.M.G., LL.D., &c.,
while Bird, who firmly believes that he made
Braddon, is only a venerable has-been and a
memory. Bird has some ability, but nobody cares
to follow an old man with a grievance.
The present N.S.W. Premier visited
Deniliquin Show with the Carington party in 87.
At the Show banquet George, proposing a toast,
enumerated all the species of sheep he had seen
that day, but said what struck him as strange was
that, if he went into a shop and asked for a pound
of best wool he would be given Berlin wool; he
had seen no Berlin-wool sheep that day, and next
time he visited them he hoped to find they had
acted ofl his hint. This was shortly after re-
counted to McOaughey’s stud-sheep manager at
Coonong station, who solemnly took it all in, and
when finished, set his mouth hard, and bringing
his fist down with an emphatic smash on the table
said : “ Thot’s arl recht, but I dinna think ye 11
beat the mereena ba much.”
Dear Bulletin,— lie this paragraph lately
printed by you .
“ Explorer Ernest Giles is once more a Govt, official, in
the early fifties he drove a pen in Melb. G.P.0., and later
clerked it in the County Court. It is W.A. this time.
Verily a damnable example of Westralia’s ingrati-
tude —to a man who did such splendid work for
her in early days. Instead of being provided with
a snug billet with little to do, or, better still, with
a pension, this intrepid explorer, now over 70
years of age, is chained to a desk in a Coolgaidie
Govt, office in a miserable position. Even at this
late hour the Govt, should acknowledge Giles s
brave and ill-paid services in some practical way.
—VIIOK,
HE’D NEVER SEEN AN ASS BEFORE.
COCKY: “ Well, what in thunder was all that laughing about?”
JACKY (just recovered from a long convulsion , indicating the
donkey) Ho-ho-ha-ha huh-huh-huh! That pfeller
tink-it himself a horse.”
The most remarkable event in the career
of deceased Baronet Osborne Morgan, one-time
Under-Secretary for the Colonies, was his ousting
of Sir Watkin Wynn from the representation of
E. Denbighshire, in the Commons, after the family
had held the seat uninterruptedly for 177 years.
Gov. Buxton much offended the old veterans
whom he recently received at Adelaide vice-regal
mansion, because he did not take the trouble to
put on a uniform in honor of the occasion. The
slight was the more marked because both Capt.
Guise and Capt. Wallington were in full dress,
having more knowledge of military etiquette than
the tactless brewer.
AFTER - EFFECTS .
JOHNNIE : “ Shall I die if I (jet influenza, Mrs. Jones?"
MRS. J. : “ The influenza won't kill you, Johnnie; but you might get
ammonia or conflagration of the lungs afterwards.”
Melb. Tram Co. has ordered that the
first man breaking rules and regulations on a
tram, who gives the name of W. G. Sprigg, is to
be immediately handed over to the police. W. G.
Sprigg is the co.’s secretary, and he has been
reported by conductors for all sorts of riotous
conduct and furious behaviour on trams. Sprigg
was continually breaking windows, damaging
seats, assaulting conductors, and defying the co. ;
or, at least, nearly every man caught in the act of
doing these awful things solemnly gave the name
of W. G. Sprigg. Now the whole staff is lying
low for the next Sprigg to crop up.
Many, even among those who do not per-
sonally know .T. I. Hunt, the evergreen Sydney
press humorist, will be sorry to hear that he is
now almost totally blind. The sight of his right
eye had long been much impaired, and eight
months ago the light of his left eye totally went
out through detachment of the retina—an appa-
rently incurable trouble. “And now,” writes the
kindly little man, “I am preparing for total
eclipse—no moon, no sun, no stars, no nothing—
worst of all, no ballet. The mere writing would
be nothing to me, as I have trained myself to
write fairly well with closed eyes, but keeping in
touch with topics of the day would be the devil.
As it is, my wife does m#ch reading for me, as I
have to save the remaining eye as much as pos-
sible.”
“ A very gallant, high, and popular naval
officer and Albert Edward have become friends
again,” writes The Bulletin’s London corre-
spondent. “The quarrel of six or eight years
past, re giddy Albert Edward’s attentions to Lady
Blank, and the threat of the fire-eating sailor to
shiver the royal jaw, was crushed into the dusts of
yesterday in a hearty handshake at Ascot race-
meeting. The lady never looked cause enough for
the fuss, though she may have hidden charms of
soul; yet the P.o.W. is not keen on the intangible
ethereal. Nevertheless, the lady wrote a pam-
phlet, explaining much and telling little, but no
one would print it, and so she had it typewritten.
Still, all is over now, the fires have waned, and
comfortable peace is sought for, ”
Dr. Maloney, M.L.A. for West Melb., re-
lates a yarn against himself about an inventor of
an engine, which was to revolutionise things in
general. The man brought his plans to Maloney
and entered into elaborate explanations, which
only tended to confuse the thing still more, but
his original assertion was graspable, and the little
doctor took him on. After half-a-dozen more in-
terviews, during which the building of a model
was understood to be progressing, the inventor
remarked, “You know we’re old friends, Doctor
Maloney.” The M.L.A. paused. “ Indeed,” he
said, “I thought we met for the first time over
this engine.” The inventor laughed—a hard,
weird laugh. “Oh dear, no. Don’t you remem-
ber signing the certificate that committed me to
Yarra Bend lunatic asylum about a year ago ? ”
So far, things in general are not revolutionised.
Q. Chief Justice Griffith delivered a eulogy
on the late ex-Chief Justice Lilley. There
was small personal love between the two men,
when Lilley was alive. Lilley was warm-
blooded and generous; Griffith’s ichor is icy.
Lilley’s personality won genuine friendships;
Griffith has merely climbed to position (intellect
granted, of course) by stepping-stones available,
not caring one “crack of the thumb” (as M‘ll-
- would say) whether the stepping-stone was
the Yellow Pup or the Green Dog, the teetotal
Bulcock party or the Bung interest, the white
man or the Chow, the Indian coolie or the Jap,
the Nonconformist or the Anglican or 1t.C.,-the
Horny-handed or the Fat Man, His luck and his
sire kept him, however, largely idolised by the
Nonconformist and tub-thumping following. Old
politicians remember how Lilley once, in the Leg.
Assembly, turned on Griffith with—“ You’re
nothing but a pettifogging attorney, and you
never will be anything but a pettifogging attor-
ney.”


JOSEF .
v PILSEKTER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
£wde6tMt/»,
Assay Office Si Chemical Laboratory,
Trlkphonb'
2444.
5 Moore-st., SYDNF] Y.
SIR JOHN - -
POWER’S Whiskey.
Sydney:
All Wine Merchants.
Quinlan Gray Ltd.,
Brisbane.
M‘Bean, Bowker& Co.,
Perth.
| Hogan, Mooney & Co.,
Melbourne.
Walter Reid & Co. Ld.,
Rockhampton
Wm. Lennon & Co.,
Townsville
Representatives: PHILIPS & PIKE,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
AMI WKI.I.IMiIIIN, X y
One Sydney daily deeply offended Sydney mer-
chants by its advocacy of Federation and the Income-tax.
It was seriously proposed to take advantage of the
squatters’ aversion to the Land-tax by sending’ represen-
tatives into the country to secure the' signatures of land-
owners to a round robin refusing to deal with any firm
advertising in that daily. This was then to have been
printed, and a copy sent to every advertiser in the paper.
The plot went along all right at first, the money for ex-
penses was actually put up and two pushing young men
selected for the work. A friendly solicitor killed it by
asking if any of the plotters had studied the law against
conspiracy.
'** * •
Under the new Companies Act (Vic.), the pro-
prietary co's can hide their position either till they go
bung or till Judgment Day. The P. co.’s balance-sheet
certainly has to be placed with the Registrar of Titles
every 12 months, but it is sealed, and the searcher after
truth is liable to a year’s gaol if he opens it. On payment
of Is. the searcher can see the Articles of Association and
the share register, but no more. Again, no provision is
made in the Act by which the prop. co. has to show who
its debenture-holders are. Several Vio. concerns, entirely
in the hands of reconstructed banks, have been converted
at the banks’ suggestions from limited liability co’s to
proprietary co’s limited, in order that the banks may get
security by debentures ; and no one but the co. and the
bank knows who proprietary co’s are actually run by, and
to what extent they are in the banks’ hands.
* * * *
It is good evidence of the soundness of Kalgoor-
lie that the local storekeepers are almost the only ones on
the fields who are not “ sparring for wind,” more or less,
on their Eastern engagements. Quite a number of the
more important Coolcardie storekeepers are suffering
from book-debts in a very aggravated form, and the
severe competition amongst them for cash custom has so
reduced profits that “ assistance” and “extensions” are
becoming proportionately almost as frequent as in the
East. He would be a plucky man who would offer 6s. in
the £ for goldfields book-debts, and yet more than one
fields storekeeper has over £25,000 “on his books”
amongst the miners.
• • * •
A Melbourne restaurant-proprietor (Larnarque,
of the Cafb Central), who came to financial grief last year
and went off to Coolgardie with the best wishes of his
creditors, has rewarded their confidence by remitting a
cheque for payment, of all his debts in full, and a bit over.
The surplus was expended on a dinner to celebrate the
joyful event. Which suggests that Coolgardie is still
a suitable place for honest French caterers to try their
luck in.
* * * *
There is joy amongst a certain banking com-
munity at the news of a big unexpected rise made by a
Southern firm. Paradoxical as it seems, the joy is due to
the opportunity having at last, arisen to shut the firm up.
The overdrafts were too heavy and hopeless for the banks
to dare to do so before.
* * * *
There is a mild boom in Sydney pubs. Rumored
that certain big breweries hav e agreed to knock out all
the little breweries and “ hog ” the plunder.
* * * *
Maoriland Appeal Court has finally ukased that
a brewer mortgagee cannot enforce a clause in the mort-
gage agreement binding mortgagor to take beer from the
mortgagee when the mortgage has been freed ; on the
ground that such is against public policy, being a direct
attempt at restraining trade. All the brewer can now
claim from Bung is interest and principal and custom so
long as the mortgage exists.
* • * >
The annual meeting of the Melb. accountants
and clerks’ association was held the other day. The
A PHONETIC CATASTROPHE.
NAVAL OFFICER (to Lady Flounder, after very long silence): “Awful pause!”
LADY FLOUNDER (with the fat lingers and the big diamond rings, hastily taking her hands off the table): “So
would yours be if you ’ad done ’alf the ’ard work I ’ave!"—(Collapse of Officer.)
balance-sheet as read out appeared to show a credit by in-
eluding “arrears of subscription’’—about one-quarter of
the members being apparently in arrear. The election of
directors was neatly arranged. The names of nominees
were written on a blackboard, and the chairman and
directors occupied themselves in elaborate eulogy of one
another. Then a new nomination was made. “Who is
he?” asked one director, excitedly. “ A young clerk,”
shouted another director. “ Wipe off his name,” shouted
two or three in chorua —and wiped off it
was. Another man, nominated in due
form, was also wiped off. Then two more
nominations were made, and the chair-
man made a long speech, stating how im-
portant it was that responsible men were
appointed, men in touch with and in the
confidence of the bosses, etc. Then the
poll was taken, and no one was surprised
to find that the impertinent young men
who had ignored the vested interests of the
old directors were rejected.
* * * *
Under Tasmania’s insolvency laws
a bankrupt who can see the smash three
montt j ahead of him can nearly always
get through by paying nothing in the £ if
he wants to. In the Land of Shadows and
Sleep-a-Lot it is not considered a fair thing
to enquire into business dealings of more
than three months back. This gives scope
for some artistic packing of creditors’
meetings, and makes the life of a bankrupt
well worth living. The only drawback to
this national (and humane) disinclination
to dig too deeply among antecedents is
that it is rather hard to get far enough
into debt to make it worth while going
bankrupt. In her usual upside-down
fashion, Raspberry-land is struggling on
towards the high moral standard whicli
must result when debts are not recoverable
by legal machinery.
• * * «
Ed. Bulletin, — The other week
you set forth the iniquities of the Tas.
fruit-shippers. This about a fruit-grower.
A certain shipper visited the orchard of
said grower, and contracted for the whole
of its produce when it ripened. When
this time had arrived grower wrote to
shipper stating that the wind had almost
entirely ruined his crop, but demanded
fulfilment of contract. Shipper paid-up
and sustained heavy loss. Some time after
lie saw cases with this very grower’s
brands on them, ready for shipment. He
recognised these, collected evidence as to
the fraud, and demanded rebate with the
alternative of an action. Grower judged
it best to pay. The growers are no more
angels than the shippers. —Sludge.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—l presume that
one of the two very powerful institutions ’’
of Trade Protection in the U.S. is the
“ Real Estate Book.” Being a Conserva-
tive shortly after the war, I wondered how
the Yanks could stand their private affairs
being surveyed by touts and published for
the clients of the same. The volume in
’69 was enormous : as large as London P.O.
Directory. It came into my notice by my
remarking that I had a friend in Troy,
N.Y., and thought of visiting him. There
was a Telegraph Co.’s head office in a
corner of the room where I was employed.
The President (we’re all directors or pro-
fessors or staff over there) put his finger
on my friend’s name (say) Richard Turpin,
spinner and yarner ; capital, £1,000,000 ;
credit unlimited. The old Judge (he was
also a Justice or Judge) said, “ A safe man
to visit.”— Hiram Abiff.
* * * *
Pretty well every mining district
has its little peculiarity. One of Cobar’s is
its practice of crowding the name of every
person interested in a lease into the appli-
cation for it. The “ record ” in this re-
spect is held by a lease issued in 32 names
—for an area of 4 acres.
* * » »
A shady Northern storekeeper
wrote recently, in reply to a merchant’s
demand for a settlement, as follows
“ Sir,—Everything I have is in my wife’s
name. I wouldn’t pay you what I owe
you, if I could, and, what’s more, you
haven’t any proof in writing that I owe
you anything, so you can do your dam-
(test. The frautl-sununons process, however, eventually
crushed him for 20s. in the £, plus costs of treatment.
That storekeeper now regards education as a curse and
a snare.
* * * *
Judge A’Beckett decided in a trust case, the
other day, in Victoria, that a half margin was sufficient
in mortgages, on both town and agricultural land. The
English rule is one-third on buildings and one-half on
agricultural, and that practice has been followed by some
officers of the Vic. courts. Some trepidation existed
among trustees until the thing was decided, as one-half
margin advances were as common as land-banks in the
boom years. It’s hard to see, however, where the Judge
got his principle from, for the English rule is an eminently
safe one, when dealing in risky properties with other
people’s money.
* • * •
It is freely asserted in Melb. meat-circles that it
BOTH HARD IN THE JAW.
THE OWNER: I wont deceive you—my reason for selling is he’s too high-spirited and hard in the
mouth.”
THE OTHER ONE: “ Well, that doesn’t matter. It’s for my wife’s mother!”
is really not the squatters, but the big 1 butchers with
several shops, who are at the bottom of the troubles result-
ing in the dead-meat boycott. These dealers have, it is
said, formed a ring-, and are trying- by pressure for harder
terms of sale, to crush out their less fortunate brethren.
Ihis done, they can get terms to suit themselves, and
charg-e the consumer what they please.
* * * *
Notable on the list of New South Wales pro-
litless railway lines is the Belmore route. The unspeak-
able Belmore line, which starts
vom a swamp and ends in the
hush, and which has no traffic
worth speaking of, but was built
to suit several boom co’s and
land - speculators with Parlia-
mentary “friends,” is run at a
loss of nearly £l6O a week. And
it is going from bad to worse, the
loss in 1896 being £l2 a week
more than in 1895.
* * *
Sydney retailers greatly
complain of small purchases be-
ing made through wholesale
houses. The tailor, hatter, and
mercer are the chief sufferers in
this respect. The average snip
will tell you that almost all his
work nowadays is “ making-up,”
as his customers supply the cloth,
which they obtain through a
friend in one of the big houses.
Hence his little profit on the
cloth, and trade discounts are
lost. So with the hatter and
mercer. The “Dr. Jim” hats,
retailed at from 10s. 6d. to 145.,
are secured wholesale (per mate
in the line) at 6s. and 7s. With
mercery it is the same woeful
tale, though, perhaps, the effect
is not so marked.
* * «
In a Southern town, re-
cently, judgment was given
against a certain individual for
some £9O. The creditors put the
bailiffs into his suburban villa,
and, notwithstanding the asser-
tion of Mrs. Individual that the
furniture was her own private
property, the horrid men refused
to go away. The debtor had pri-
vately gone to Westralia, leaving
his wife in charge of the villa,
and, naturally, her misfortune
evoked much sympathy under
the circumstances. This, despite
the fact that the money owing
was an amount lent Mr. I. to
start him in the illegal “consul-
tation” business, after a slump
in the industry in another pro-
vince. Eventually, the lady
moved the law, and undertook
to prove that the property seized
was her very own ; but, at the
last moment, she paid the claim,
sent the bailiffs off about their
business, and wrote to the papers
stating that she had paid the demand rather than
have her private affairs dragged through a wretched
law-court. This was a mistake, as it soon transpired
the absent husband was a gentleman who had run
a lot of more or less evil-smelling and widely-ad-
vertised (chiefly by circular) sweeps, under about half-
a-dozen aliases. No sympathy was extensive enough to
cover that lot, and the usual execration heaped upon
bum-bailiffs and creditors by the sporting public suddenly
changed to invitations to those much-maligned persons
to cum-an-av-a-drink. The lady has realised that in a
sympathy consultation, as in others, there are many
blanks and few prizes.
* * * *
It is estimated that the N.S.W. Engineering
Exhibition will result in a loss to the guarantors of fully
£2OOO. J
* * * *
One big and successful Vic. mining-speculator
has proprietary interests in no less than six W.A. papers.
* * * *
Koss, Ross and Co., financiers, 352 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, want freehold and c.p. securities for any part
of £lOO,OOO at about 4 per cent. Owners wishing to bor-
row should write this firm, who make no charges if scour i-
ties are not accepted, and do not control wool or stock
sales.*
* * * *
The best and safest investment in Australia is a policy
in the, A.M.P. Society. Mr. W. R. Pennycook, the
Society s City Agent, will give intending assurers every
information. His address is Hoffnung’s Buildings, 163
Pitt-street, Sydney. Telephone 2862.*
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —You are pretty rough on the
“jumper” in your issue of July 31. Calling names,
however, doesn’t prove anything, though it mav suggest
that the caller tries to make up in abuse what he lacks in
argument. For years past you have advocated the plan
of auctioning for State benefit mining lands forfeited
through non-fulfilment of conditions; but, though your
logic is rarely controvertible, you do not explain how the
scheme is to be worked. Is the detection of defaulters
to be automatic ? or are officials to be appointed who, by
turning a handle, would be able to see who was default-
ing ? And, if this latter, how are these officials to be pre-
vented from turning the handle the wrong way should
occasion require ? I have too much respect for The Bul-
letin to think it believes that persons would come for-
ward for the public good—or, in fact, that anyone ever
does anything for the public good. How, then, do you
suggest that breaches of the law would become known
since you propose no provision for rewarding “ the in-
former?” All very fine for you to sit in your easy edi-
torial chair—-all editorial chairs are easy, aren’t they ?
and dilate upon “ happy mediums.” Strikes me, how-
ever, that, if you were in W.A., and had to make your
living by mining, amid the dust, and flies, and curses—
here, where your model Fatman rules supreme, and cor-
ruption reigns rampant through all official circles—you
would feel yourself justified in meeting cunning with its
own weapons, and in bowling Fatman over wherever
possible, without justly laying yourself open to be called,
in your own elegant vernacular, a “pimp, sneak and
perjurer.” There !— Lictor, Kalgoorlie, 9th Aug. [There
is a happy medium. Why should a jumper, or informer,
get all a valuable mine (take a notorious recent much-
litigated N.S.W. case, for instance) when much less would
serve all useful purposes ?—Ed. B.j
* * * *
A leading German authority estimates that in
the last three years the production of lead has amounted
to 1,942,000 metric tons, and the consumption to 1,974 000
tons. But in ’96 (the last of the three years) the consump-
tion was only 2000 tons short—which would seem to indi-
cate that not much further advance in price is probable.


Good News for Corpulent People.
Wonderful Results obtained from the use of the new Vegetable Anti-Fat,
PHYTOLINE
REGISTERED.
REGISTERED.
Eminent Medical Men have Proved it on Thousands of Cases.
It is the onlv safe cure for CORPULENCY. It also cures Rheumatism of shoulders and arms when taken
d?rectfons. CU Males and females have lost from 15 to 20 pounds a^onth
Stout people who pant and grow red in the face when walking up stairs, up,® r ■ ’ g P
Ladies can reduce their waist measurement by inches by taking a course of this remedy.
PHYTOLINE
has the marvellous power of dissolving and re-absorbing the fatty tissues, making the
movements of stout people easy and light.
PHYTOLINE
is an absolutely safe remedy for male or female, and is the only harmless entirely
vegetable fat-reducer known.
PHYTOLINE
can be obtained from all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors. Price, 35.,,65., and 125.,
in tablet or liquid form. The largest bottles or boxes are equal to six of the small size.
What is it good for?
Jaok-of-all-trades, and master of none, he was
as usual, looking for employment. ,
“ But what can you do ? ” asks the merchant t j
whom he applied. , „
“ Oh, I can do ’most anything, Sir.
“ Then I can’t employ you. This, my good
man, is an age of specialties : one man for one
thing, and that the occupation for which he is
particularly fitted by nature, aptitude and training.
I have observed that men that can do most
anything’ aspire to run the Goverment before
they have developed enough ability in any one
direction to run a barrow. When I engage a book-
keeper, I expect him to show proficiency in his own
department. He may sing like an angel, or be
High Grand Mogul of a secret society, but if he
ain’t a bookeeper he won’t suit me. I want what
T need : something I have no use for is dear at any
1M This is our whole story in metaphor. We do
not recommend Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure to a man
who failed to give the tram car the right of way.
Warner’s “ Safe” Cure is a specific remedy for
specific diseases, arising directly or indirectly from
an abnormal condition of two — only two organs,
liver or kidneys. . ,
As an example of its specific action upon the
liver, note the experience of W. H. Mitchell, J. 8.,
Glenelg Shire, valuer and sworn valuator, Caster-
ton, Vie. : “ I deem it just to my fellow creatures
who may be victims to flatulency and indigestion,
and the many ailments resulting therefrom, to tell
them that I received infinitely more benefit from a
few bottles of Warner’s ‘Safe’ Cure than I did
from the numerous prescriptions prepared forme
by the medical faculty for years.” '
Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.*
SoftCao^aSSbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per 14-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. VIHE Jl It O THE Jin ,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Tliere will 100 no
OIF -
66
The so-called “ slump ” has been expected for some time. The public is notoriously slow to move, but at last it has discovered that it has been the dupe
of designin'* manufacturers, who have been palming off inferior goods at top prices. It seems to be the fate of anything good to be copied, parodie ,
pirated l.v'tlie class of people referred to. HUMBER & 00. Ltd. have submitted to these processes very patiently, knowing that appreciation of
n,. ilitv finish and design would soon extend from the “ expert ” rider (who has never once wavered m his loyalty) to all other classes of cyclists. The
“ slump ”is only to be regarded as a repudiation of base imitations and a recognition of genuine merit. The “ slump ” only affects inferior mac rnes.
Our Nett Cash Prices for the 1897-98 season are as follows
BEESTON MAKE-
No. 1
No. 3
No. 5
No. 7
No. 9
No. 19
FULL ROADSTER...
LIGHT ROADSTER
ROAD RACER
PATH RACER
LADY’S
LADY’S
£
30
30 0
30 0
30 0
30
30
s. D.
0 0
0
0
0
0
0
WOLVERHAMPTON
MAKE.
No. 2
No. 4
No. 6
No. 8
No. 10
No. 20
FULL ROADSTER
LIGHT ROADSTER
ROAD RACER
PATH RACER
LADY’S
LADY’S
£ S. D.
27 0 0
27 0 0
27 0 0
27 0 0
27 0 0
27 0 0
BEESTON HUMBER.
~ a , J ttttvtpiuu is of COVENTRY make —a tnousana rimes ruvvnu tu —’ .
Our lowes pr HAMPTON is in every way a really first-class cycle, beautifully finished, both artistically and mechanically,
efforts of other makers. The WOLVERHAMPTON ~ belongs to BEESTON . „ is unequalled in all the wide world; the
proMhtoTtoldeal yet made. The most boastful of other makers use the Beeston as a standard. If you value comfort and safety, ease and
elcgancet'youcari find them in the highest degree when riding a
Illustrated Catalogues (Free) on application to
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LIMITEP.
! OXFORD CHAMBERS, 473-481 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Depot: 393 <SEOR<SE STR€€T, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE:
BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, CHARTERS TOWERS, NEW ZEALAND,
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
W.P. : Why should song-words be mostly empty
(waddle? Vera: What exactly is the land that Card.
Moran has fenced in on the foreshore at or near Fairy
Bower, Manly ; and how did he acquire it? F.S. : It’s
“otherwise.” George Diamond: Sorry won’t d 0......
J.H. : Hopeless pencil scrawl H.E. : That fellow is a
very clever scrap-book stealer. He cross-indexes heaps of
American stuff and other, and re-writes bits of his own—
or bits you can’t trace—making very popular articles
H.A.C. : Verse doubtful; yarn doomed Adelaidean
with the straggly scrawl and no name on copy : Declined.
..Wallaroo : Not good enough Lance T. : Kipling
poem too long and Donnybrooky. “ Where you see a
phrase, hit it” isn’t a safe rule of conduct J.F.D. :
May use '.Thurs. I. : Received Mona R.O. : Not up.
. X. : Presumably Bulletin refers to alleged Deity with
capital “ He” and “ His ” as a matter of ingrained habit,
without exactly knowing why....Kobar : Nothing usable....
Pilus : Tender little mushroomy pup-yarn -one mouthful.
A.S. : Received clipping .....P.A.V. (M.L.) : Just the
l liing—the office insomnia will never insomn any m0re.....
W. : No, Mark Twain was going to take that testimonial
quite cheerfully, when his friends stepped in and per-
suaded him to reconsider. Not that there was any dis-
credit, for a man who has made the world laugh like
Mark X Ray : One detached note to hand. Conun-
drum : where is the article? V. : Not much in the
story, but we like the name—Tomkinson-Tubbs. Please
sav it again slowly, and sound the hyphen G.F.D. :
Too preachy N.S.W. : Thanks Gemini: “Winds ’
pretty dull ! ...Aleph : Interest more personal than public
.. .Nell: ’Taint a story ; and hard facts are as cheap as
peanuts Dick :We like “ the fragrance of her body.”
It’s a change of charm from the ruby lips and the tomato
nose, and the rest of the trite paraphernalia of the print-
Eros. And there’s a lot of sense in it, too. It was Walt
Whitman who said: “Give me for marriage a sweet-
breathed woman, of whom I will never tire and Shake-
speare remarked of Cordelia that “ Her breath was ever
sweet, gentle and slow—an excellent thing in woman.”
Yes, by Onions ! J.P.Q.: Chaste imagination—and
that’s all T.P. : Neither idea nor drawing up
Z. : Don’t care much for the “Sir Eginhard” brand of
humor ...W.E. : Too many pars, like that going round.
N.T.S. : Point murky Rek : It’s tired. (So are we.)
Alpha: Considering .... Flabby Paul: Par. good;
verse bad; total mixed H.G. : ’Tisn’t plausible
Mat: It’s on that level, anyway Paperknife :No profit
in the “best books” hunt, unless everybody can compare
notes and give reasons, and eternity’s too short for that.
~..V. : A printing-press is perhaps all the better for an
ecclesiastical blessing, as a set-off to the foul language
which, in printing, as in bullock-driving, seems absolutely
necessary Inquirer : Write to N.S.W. Govt. Printer for
a copy of the report of the Convention Lovell (Mud.) :
In its present state it would not do, but will consider it
as a suggestion A.S.C.: The Bulletin wants short,
bright paragraphs; not long, dull “papers." Reywd
(City): Will print Toby : Will submit to artist
Gelignite: Possibly S.C. (T.T.) : Thanks Tyalga:
Not up E.E. : Pretty little hymn—in a hymn-book.
Leo: “Moon averse —universe” is ingenious ; other-
wise rhymes are dull T. M‘G. : Are you a teamster ?
Then yoke up, and haul away that poem T.K. :It is
quite correct to talk of “ the glaring defects of Dickens’s
style.” It is just as correct to talk of the glaring merits
of Dickens’s style. A very little man can point out
Dickens’s defects, and there's no man nowadays writing
English who is big enough to match his merits Dolly
D. : Male curiosity tried to find what was in you, and all
the sawdust came out W.H.P. (W.A.): Admission that
you won’t send any more if we say “Don’t!” brightens
up the staff considerably. DON’T !! 1 Ampersand :
Can’t find force or novelty enough for print. And is
“Dubito ergo sum. —Descartes” a joke? Horace C. :
Considering Junibuck : The point is fair, but you don t
knock the interest out of it A.A.G.: Can’t undertake
to supply a key to Bulletin oonundrums. Quite enough
to supply the conundrums M.D. (W.A.): Not long
yarns, please. Your MS. takes too much patching......
Q.Q. ; When those valuable copyrights fall in, the pub-
lishers will forestall the cheap market A.P.B. : De-
clined, with thanks ..-.J.8.11. : “ How does Botaniastrike
us as a substitute for New South Wales? It would pre-
serve some suggestion of the original name, and be handy
enough for daily use.” Yes, but people don’t like to be
reminded of Botany Bay. Besides the name sounds
like somebody’s Root Beer H.W.G.: Over-hackneyed —
Hilda : The difference is that N.S.W. National Gallery
trustees gave £2500, or more, for that garish holy circus
“The Queen of Sheba,” whereas Longstaff’s splendid
“ Lady in Black ” cost them exactly £5O. Such matters
are mere questions of taste, yet The Bulletin would
rather have one such Longstaff at £2500 than 60 Queen s
of Sheba at £5O apiece. In the main, this paper says
amen to Mr. Nairn Nyngan : First good, and ap-
parently new ; second, old as the hills Sambo : Thanks.
But always bet your life that the man who prances about
in publio, showing himself off as the be-all and end-all of
a big conoern, isn’t the brains of it Varu : You see, it
so often happens that a man’s first work is his best; as in
mining, so in literature—it is the alluvial which is free
and rich Jour: Knock the lazy word Interesting out
of your professional slop. If a thing 1 be interesting, let it
say so itself Elmo: What you, as a denominational-
educationist, wish to convey is the idea that the Bible, k
energetically applied early and often, would prevent
people killing themselves. Old Coroner Youl was a
keener observer, and knew his book better : “It )ems to
me,” he said, “ that a man no sooner becomes truly and
really religious, and quite convinced of heaven, than he
buys a razor and cuts his throat.” Also, the truly
religious person—that is to say the Biblical literalist—
usually cuts his family’s throat first, and, being perfectly
consistent in his religion, is labelled a madman... ...
Jimmie P. : Better let ft go J.C. : One very old; the
other ought never to have been born Le B. : Won tdo
at all .....R.A.S. : Unavailable J.B. (Nyn.) : Good for
illustration One who took stock : Most of your state-
ments can be far more effectively vindicated in Parlia-
ment than in a newspaper M’G. : Dan. Rd. for illus-
tration Claude J. (Melb.) : Will print N.T.(M.,Q.):
That’s all right; but we don’t know her......D.H. : Don t
care for “ Sammy.” N.B. : Verse too thin and vague.
Don’t remember yarn R.B. :An old Bulletin story.
E J.P. :No force or novelty Rodenc (M.L.) : Defy
you to make poetry out of the Shorter Catechism
Webb Feet (W.A.) : As far as we know, that was the ex-
sergeant’s one offence in a long and exemplary term of
: service. He has suffered for it; give him another chance
Argon : Mostly unusable J.E. (P.) :If you had to per-
sonally read 1000 letters a week, to say nothing of seven
■or eight hours’ other work daily, you’d sing quite a
•different song* C.E. : One good point about the Pres-
byterians anvhow is the way they barrack for a State
iliquor-selling system under which it wouldn’t be to any-
body’s interest to sell bad stuff. And the Kirk’s motto is,
•“ None but the best—and plenty of it! ”
On Tilcha, S.A. territory, adjoining and
worked in conjunction with someN.S.W. north-
western country, one trapper recently secured 92
•dingo scalps in ten days. And this dog-pest is
almost as bad on the N.S.W. side-thanks mostly
to the existence of large tracts of “ fenced out
and abandoned country.
“ West Wyalong, Saturday.—A magis-
terial inquiry was held this morning touching the
■death last night of Patk. M'Nally, aged 58 years.
, . The medical evidence showed that the
■deceased succumbed to shock to the system. . . .
while eating sausages. . . . Verdict in accor-
dance with the medical evidence.”—S.M. Herald
■wire.
Recent Melbourne advt. :
Man, young, higlilv respectable, would like engage-
ment., chaperone or valet t o lady or gentleman, tp travel
;any part of world ; advertiser healthy, active, cheerful,
good traveller ; small wages and expenses.
Only a cheerful man of oast-iron respectability
■could act as valet to a lady travelling in any part
■of the world without exciting unpleasant com-
ment.
A Centralian recently took up country
between the Comet and Expedition Range, and
bought cattle to stock it. Ere the cattle arrived
■on the station, however, the area was quarantined,
and the hapless pastoralist was left with some
thousands of stock on hand and a quarantine-line
■debarring him from approaching his property. A
truly curseful quandary !
South-west Queensland and the Paroo,
with a little N.S. W. territory to the west, drought-
cursed land mostly, are having an innings. In
the midst of the big drought, good rains fell there
■early in the year ; and now, general rains having
made the stock-routes passable, owners are rushing
fat stock to markets while the drought-prices are
still maintained.
The Churchman published a Jubilee varia-
tion on the awful Hanthem, starting with the per-
emptory order-
Lord of all power and might,
Behold from Heaven’s height
Our noble Queen —
and proceeding to the quite unnecessary request—
From war’s red battle field
Defend our Queen.
Up to now, the Sovereign Lady has never been in
the least danger of finding herself anywhere near
the heaps of slam or the roar of artillery. If she
had ever thought of attending a foreign campaign
in the character of a hospital-nurse, there would
be some excuse for the petition aforesaid, but,
considering that the Illustrious Person merely
stops at home and sympathises with Tommy At-
kins’ widow, the rev. poet’s anxiety was uncalled
for. He might as well have asked the Almighty
to guard V.R. from mining accidents, and take
care that she didn’t fall out of a balloon.
The Jubilee thirst. In June last the Eng-
lish brewers had to brew over 650,000 barrels of
beer as compared with 500,000 barrels, the usual
average for that month.
“The year just past has been the worst
for stock-owners experienced since 1865,” the S.A.
Surveyor-General says in his annual report, tie
puts the loss of sheep at one and a-half million.
Coolgardie newspaper notices :
WJ ANTED KNOWN. —FRESH EGGS for Sale.
*V Apply this office.
A QUANTITY of Empty Kerosene TINS for Sale,
cheap. Apply at this office.
The Archimedean lever evidently doesn’t always
shift the world.
A Bulletin man in Melbourne has been
shown a nugget found in Gippsland that is a per-
fect representation of the shawled head of a baby,
as dainty as a cameo. A two-ounce nugget found
on the road at Ballarat, some years ago, was so
like a hen with two chicks that few would believe
it was not a specimen of the jeweller’s art, and a
good specimen, too.


y /sky
r/iJ
rr v>‘
\ XX
Y . t »5. <;»
!XSX
llfw''^
■ |||L / L
p. °, <
-Tx>
e . 9r, H Iff .U^
. -
v. •=
\f~s
wrr r <
os=r=r % *
Vp"
Tv I? NCR isnnc^^c a
i r i c n-*
J~j n >V 7 / 5 r S
IV.IB - Laii^inc
JacH 5
o / tva.i/5
0 »V
fajs>. I
. __ - ■ m
motif, o ! 11l
here' 5 //* U PM
Molhpf. _ '2•“ ,tl '/ //ffjl
Hr A ' uk Jill
u [o #*-d %» I In'/l
<d°j! , J
id Mi
"I may Bay I did all I could to
stimulate interest in-Australian 'afTairs.
Une text I never was tired ot quoting
was that—’Australia'jneano -to pay her’
debts.' I told them, the '-children of
Britain were aa honest and honorable
as Britain, hers.hi and that we would
not hear ot such a thing as repudia-
tion-; —»• - - ' r . . ,
—•/PeK Z>a\
(C > \\ -
SF G>WK
(Candidates^\vili be mercilessly catechised; as
jto their viento concerning “the Alliance plat-
form," whic-h jncludcs effective "Sunday 1 floa-
ting, raising the agf at which young persons
can be served ivith drink, reducing the-
hours of sale, abolition of licenses for sports,
&c., of grocers' licenses, abolition-
bar»n^s, r
71/h</ aho/isk
Jj/ ha^atcisA
(3fiSn., V/ Ne.
grearyZncPs C *' an^
/ fiatf ctoi*m frt yfa J? us^t c
I &
//Af .
, < W J? V
«7&
//#
*w
K "//ui-S to uroi-H. °[ \
"V, 'S'J |eT 'lr« fe e! s »« J
*7 $• ar ?‘ ■
MELBOURNIANA.


THE FEDERAL SPIRIT (after the banquet).
FIRST DELEGATE (with the grandiloquence born of too much lobster): “ Methinks I shee wizh zhe eye of propheshy a grand— (hic)— nation firmly ’shtablished
under the — (hi c,—Sozern Cross.”
HIS MATE : “I musht be— (hic)— worsh ’an you are. I can shee sheveral nations at present— (hic)— moment!”


Holbrook 8s Co , London.
Few firms have a wider reputation than this well-
known firm of vinegar brewers, sauce and pickle
manufacturers—established in 1791 at Stourport,
in Worcestershire. The business has gradually
grown to become one of the largest of its kind in
England, and Messrs. Holbrook’s specialities can
now be bought in almost any part of the world.
The goods they manufacture are of the highest
quality, packed with the greatest care, and placed
on the market at the lowest possible prices.
Seldom does any “proprietary article” gain such
a high reputation as that attained by Holbrook’s
sauce. The trade in this article alone is enormous
—the sales averaging close on a million bottles per
month. Their pickles also are rapidly coming to
MR. J. 0. WRIGHT, Ann. Rep. Holbrook & Co.
Bond, Photo., Adelaide.
the fore, and those who have not yet tried them
should do so, for there is nothing better or
cheaper. Their principal business, however, is
the brewing of “ pure malt ” vinegar. In Eng-
land, during the past few years, grocers and others
have been prosecuted and heavily fined under the
“Adulteration Act ” for sellingas pure malt vinegar
an article manufactured chiefly from pyroligneous
acid, and which is most injurious to those using it.
Immediately upon the firstprosecution taking place
Messrs. Holbrook and Co. issued a written
guarantee to all their customers throughout the
country stating that their vinegar was absolutely
“ pure malt,” and that they would undertake to
defend any action that might arise from the sale
of same. This produced confidence amongst the
English grocers, arid, consequently, greatly in-
creased Messrs. Holbrook’s business, so that to-day
their brewery is the second largest in the world.
They have recently opened at 80 Pitt-street,
Sydney, a wholesale warehouse, under the manage-
ment of Mr. James C. Wright, who has been con-
nected with the firm for many years, and who is
well-known to most of the leading merchants
throughout Australasia, having visited this part of
the world before on behalf of Messrs. Holbrook
and Co.
John Adams, a great-grandson of
“ Bounty ” mutiny and Pitcairn Island fame, is
now a medical student at London Hospital.
For some time he was in the drug business in
Sydney.
Melbourne has produced an aggravated
monstrosity, by name Ryan. Mr. R. re-
turned home the other night full of liquor,
and, having first poureJ boiling tea over his wife,
he got her down and tried to shovel burning coals
into her mouth. He managed to get a small quan-
tity of hot ashes into her system, but the adjacent
inhabitants dragged him off before the experiment
went any further, and the coal was extracted out
of her eye in time to avert fatal results. A more
than usually intelligent Bench gave the gentleman
six months, which is a good deal for a fried wife
as prices go nowadays.
Q. Parliamentary Labor-party and the
Brisbane Worker each sent a wreath to be laid
on the coffin of ex-Chief Justice Lilley. The first
bore a card with the inscription :
From the Parliamentary Labor-party of Queensland, a
small tribute to a departed toiler in the cause of
humanity. His labors now are o’er.
The last sentence is bathetic, with its “o’er.”
Besides, who knows anything at all about the
assumption stated as a fact ? The Worker’s card
reads better : j
A small tribute to a departed Democrat,'Who made edu-
cation free to the children of the people.
Brisbane Early-Closing Af sociation’s: —“ As a
token of respect to a departed sympathiser and
champion.” Brisbane Grammar School’s :—“ The
still, small voice of gratitude.”
From Melb. Age u leader ”
Tennyson was altogether mistaken when he made the
grand old gardener laugh at the claims of long descent.
The old snob was just as proud of his master’s ancestry as
the Vere de Vere himself, and doubtless often chuckled
in the butler’s pantry at the airs which some parvenu
nobleman gave himself.
Fancy calling Adam an old snob, and picturing i
him in a pantry, putting on style because of the
pedigree of his Creator, and chuckling at the airs
given himself by the parvenu Satan ! The “ grand
old gardener,” whom the leader-writer had in his
mind’s eye, was evidently a forelock-pulling yokel
by the name of Hodge.
A Boon to Sufferers. —A well-known stock-
dealer and storekeeper announces that, if written
to confidentially, he will reply and state the plan
he pursued by which he was restored to health
and vigor after years of suffering from Nervous
and Physical Weakness, Loss of Vigor, etc. He
writes : “I have no scheme to extort money from
anyone whomsoever. I was victimised by quacks
and empirics until I lost faith in mankind ; but,
thank heaven, I am now well, vigorous, and
strong, and anxious to make this certain means of
cure known to all. Having nothing to nell, I
want no money.” Address —J. KILIAN, Store-
keeper, Daveyston, S.A.*
"VU Try It.
The Only Certain
' Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Orals St Alt ken, 680-632 George-st,, Sydney
Recovered from Consumption .
HOW ONE OF ENGLAND’S DEFENDERS
WAS SAVED FROM THE GRAVE.
ATTESTED BEFORE A JUSTICE OF THE
PEACE.
The cause of temperance has no stronger advo-
cate than Mr. Charles Terry, a hero of the Crimean
War. Towards the end of 1896, Mr. Terry then 66
years of age, was taken very ill, and his friends
knew that that awful disease, Consumption, had
him in its fearful grasp and prompt and effective
remedial measures were an absolute necessity. An
effective remedy was discovered in Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People and Mr. Terry enjoys
perfect health ; he is yet to be found urging forward
the cause of temperance. To a reporter of “The
Australian Military Gazette ” Mr. Terry gave the
following account of his illness and marvellous
cure.
“ I arrived in Australia in the latter end of 1877
in H.M.S. Sapphire, the Hon. Captain Merry. I
then joined the Diamond, under Capatin Dale, on
this station, and on leaving the slip quitted the
service for good, having in all served in seventeen
ships in Her Majesty’s Royal Navy. In August of
this year (1896) I found myself at Emu Plains,
being in the employ of Messrs. M’Grath, fell-
mongers. It was whilst there that 1 was taken ill,
towards the latter end of August. I attributed
my illness to exposure. My first symptoms were
coughing, a spit ting of blood, and a bloody dis-
charge from the kidneys of the consistency of jelly.
One man there was particularly kind to me, and
constantly stayed up with me all night, giving me
eucalyptus to inhale, and continuously rubbing it
into my chest, throat, and stomaci. The man
said that he didn’t think I’d last long if I stayed
at Emu plains and advised me to go into a hospital.
Feeling that he was likely to prove a true prophet,
I followed his advice, came to Sydney, and took
up my abode at 485 Kent-street, where I still am
living. On my arrival in Sydney I suffered from
great pains in the back and sides, and also under
the ribs. I could take no solid food, and entirely
subsisted on eggs and new milk. I went to con-
sult a doctor whose rooms I could have reached,
under ordinary circumstances, in ten minutes,
but was so horribly weak that it took me an hour
and ten minutes to get there. He told me to strip,
which I did, and he then sounded me and asked
me how long I had been bad. I told him that
from the first it was about eight weeks, upon
which he said, “ it’s chronic.” He suggested that
I should go to a hospital at once, but I declined
and returned home. I had medicine prescribed
for me of various kinds, which proved quite in-
effectual, and afforded me no relief whatever. I
took no less than seven bottles of eucalyptus, and
even chlorodyne was prescribed for me. I fell
away lamentably, perspired profusely, and could
not obtain any sleep. I was in such pain that I
could not shift in bed. My right side was much
the worse, and my breathing was most labored and
painful. I cannot be too grateful to my friend,
Brother J. C. Jones. He would stay with me for
three or four hours at a time. One day a friend of
mine read to me the aocount of Boilermaker
Jarvis’ wonderful recovery by taking Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills, and lat once procured a box. I
had taken all but two. when the blood-spitting
and emission ceased. After two boxes I was able
to get up and walk about, and now, at the end of
six boxes, the cure was almost complete. The
cure was MAGICAL, and I tell all my friends
and the general public that nothing but Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills brought me once more before them
to agitate the temperance question, and on each
occasion I have met with a great reception. (Mr.
Terry here called our reporter’s attention to the
amount of useless physic he had consumed, and,
indeed, the amount of bottles reminded one of the
interior of a chemist’s shop). I can speak in the
highest possible terms of the marvellous curative
properties of the Pink Pills. On my visits to, and
lectures in, the country I shall consider it my duty
to sufferii.j humanity to recount my astounding
cure, and I trust that I may be the means of
saving the life of many a despairing mortal.
CHAS. TERRY.”
(Signed on oath and in the presence of Charles
Lovely, J.P.)
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills create new blood, build
up the nerves, and thus drive disease from the
system. They are a sure remedy for Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxy, St.
Vitus’ Dance, Nervous Headache, Scrofula,
Chronic Erysipelas, Influenza’s After Effects, etc.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are obtainable from all
leading chemists, or from the Dr. Williams Medi-
cine Company, Queen’s Place, Sydney, who will
forward (post paid) on receipt of stamps or post
office order, one box for 2s. 9d., or half-a-dozen for
15s. 3d.*
HOTEL .
VICTORIA *
GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
J. E. HAYES - - Phopriktor.
Beautifully furnished throughout. Best-appointed
Bar in Sydney.
Choice sree puncheon from 11 a.m.
Visit Jack and see for yourselves.
m
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s .Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modem conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
JT. -A.- QUIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
“DRINK NO LONGER WATER, but use a
little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often in-
firmities.”—l. Timothy v. 23.
AT
Lyoos’ Palace Hotel,
South Brisbane
(Between VICTORIA BRIDGE and MELBOURNE ST.
RAILWAY STATION).
TATTERSALL'S HOTEL,
Flinders-st., Townsville.
THOS. ENRIGHT PROPRIETOR.
rpOM ENRIGHT would remind all Old Friends and
1 Diggers that he is still conducting the TATTER-
SALL’S HOTEL, Townsville.
The TATTERSALL’S is the House most suitable for the
Travelling Digger, on account of its central position
being opposite the wharves—and its prestige for Good
Comfortable Accommodation, Best of Liquors, Good At-
tendance combined with Moderate Charges, is established.
Pubications.
G-eo. Robertson & 00.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers' Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
The last of six : tales of
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
Visitors to
Melbourne
SHOULD Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Comer LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
(Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centra
of City. _ First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room)) 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
TO
rOTICE
MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMfOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
sbs«b;
i
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE O.RO.
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E BT S!aEu. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
■ran
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
Centrally Situated.
Terms:
From 10s. per Day, and
£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
BE THANKFUL
if you haven’t a cough or cold in these changeable days.
But, if you have either cough or cold, or any trouble with
your lungs or vocal organs, be tljaOkfCll f° r Geraudel’s
Pastilles. The real remedy for coughs, colds, and lung
troubles.
Six dozen in a tube. Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.


A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker, Jeweller.
Silverplate direct from the
Makers to the Public.
Save ss. to 7s. 6<L in the M. We Guarantee Satisfaction.
Purchasers can
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Send for
Illustrated
Price List.
all
©
. o
yy-mw/tr
sk &
FIRST-CLASS RELIABLE ENGLISH LEVERS.
Hand-finished, full-capped, jewelled English Lever, .£3 10s. Extra
quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B. strongest, cheapest and best time-
keeper ever made —3,4, 5, 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Open-
face Keyless, 30s. Double case, 40s, £2 10s. Short-wind Keyless,
7s fid ; extra, 12s 6d ; superior quality, 20s; guaranteed 12 months.
We guarantee all our watches to give every satisfaction. Try us, you
will not regret it.
180. Gold, Pure
Diamond, 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
3 pure Diamonds,
<£3.
Similar, 15c. Gold,
20s, 30s.
Any name.
9e.Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d.
15c., 20s, 255, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold,
255, 30s, 355, £2.
We can re-make Rings.
Pure Diamond,
18c. Gold Band or
J-rourid, £3.
Smaller, £2 & £2los.
9c. Gold Twin Love Birds, 15s 6d.
15c. Gold Twin Love Birds, 20s.
Set with pure White Pearls, 32s od.
-.-r'.rx
mu®.
■Ss*
Sugar—Pure Silver on White
Britannia Metal, 16s 6d ; other
styles, similar, 20s, 255.
-c... a
©e
Any Name Free.
9c. Gold, 10s ; 15c. Gold, 17s 6d;
18c. Gold, 22s 6d ; Silver Bar, 3s 6d.
Special Value —Very Cheap.
r /7$
Qfcii "'ll!
Latest Style, 3-bar Garnet or Amethyst,
21s. 15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Dinner Cruets— 6 Cut Bottles, Pure Silver
on hard White Metal, 32s 6d; other styles,
37s 6d, £2, £2 10s. 4-bottle, 21s; other
styles, 255, 30s.
TO
Gold Bell Brooch, 15s 6d.
Gives every Satisfaction.
dent’s Gold Waltham Keyless Lever, patent
filled cases, 15 years’ guarantee, .£4 4s.
14K. Gold, 20 years’ guarantee, <£s ss.
Works written guarantee, 3 years.
Others charge almost double for same quality.
5 pure Diamonds,
double cut,
18c. Gold Hand-
made, £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£lO, =£l2 10s.
Send for Size Card.
Sapphires or Rubies and
Diamonds, same price.
Bread Forks, pure
Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Other styles,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
Pure Silver-plated Butter.
Cut Glass, 15s 6d.
Large size, 20s.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
Teapots—Pure Silver on Britannia Metal, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Tea and Coffee Sets, £2 los, £3 l Os, £i 10s, £5 ss, =£o 6s.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
snap padlock, 9c.
Gold, 355, £2 ss, £3;
extra, .£3 ss.
15c., £3, £4, £5, £6;
with key padlock,
10s extra.
All secured with
Safety Chains, and
in cases.
3 Sapphires,
Rubies or
Opals,
4 Diamonds,
18c. Solid
Gold.
£3, £4, £5,
.£6.
Splendid
Value.
Pure Silver Plate on Hard White Metal,
32s Cd; Chased, 355. Splendid Value.
Gold Brooch, Amethyst Heart,
15s 6d.
Gold Brooch "-bar A methyst, 25r.
15c. Gold, A 2 lb.
Gold, quite new, Double Heart Amethyst,
21s ; 15c. Gold (as above), 355.
Quite New Music Brooch.
Pure White Pearls.
15e. Gold, £2; Heart, £2 ss.
Highly Recommended.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and
Keepers, 9c. Solid Gold, 10s.
each. 15c. Gold, 15s; extra
heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
Send for size card.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Heart, 12s Gd.
Latest 3-bar Gold Brooch, 10s 6d.
Set with 2 Pearls & Redstone, 12s 6d.
J-O-O-O,
B O
Quite New Gold Amethyst, 90., 20s.
15c. Gold, 30s.
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond & Redstone, 355.
Gold Brooch, Pearls & Redstone, 20s.
Quite New, Solid Gold, 3-bar, Ruby
2 Pearls, 17s 6d. 15c. Gold, 355.
-Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
6 different Patterns,
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s.
Large, 21s.
15c. Gold, 955, 30s,
355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
Solid Gold Chain,
Single or Double,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold,
£slos, £6, £6 los,
<£7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Pure
Diamonds
and
Pearls, £2.
Pure
White
Pearls,
22s 6d ;
without,
12s 6d.
All
Articles
Post
Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guarantee'!.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless, 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s,
£?,. Key, 255, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, i;4, <£s.
Superior Quality, .£6, £ 7, -£B, i6IU
All Guaranteed.
Tea & Coffee Set, 70s.
English make.
Pure Silver Plate on
Britannia Metal.
Teapot, 20s; Coffee, 22s 6d;
Sugar, 12s 6d ; Milk, 10s.
The full Set, <£3 10s.
Splendid Value.
Gold 3-Bar Amethyst, 20s.
15c. Gold „ 32s 6d.
Gold Fancy Bar Name Brooch, 15s.
Any Name or Initial Free.
15c. Gold, set with pure White Pearls,
Two Hearts, £2 10s.
I sgfl nr"
m
Quite New, Solid Gold, 2-bar Amethyst,
22s 6d. 15e. Gold, £2.
9c. Gold Bangle, 20s.
S 3
Gives every Satisfaction.
Lad'e<’Gold Waltham Keyless Lever,
Patent Filled Gases, 15 years’guaran-
tee, £4 4s. 14K. Go’d, 20 years*
guarantee, <£s ss.
Works written guarantee, 3 years
Others charge almost double for
same quality.
Guaranteed the Utmost Satisfaction.
Post Your Orders to A. SAUMDEBiS,
815 George Street, SYDNEY, nearly opposite Railway Station


King Billy needs no tablets,
, His fame is knotvn too well,
No puff or bribe is needed
To make the Billy sell.
He still ranks first in favor,
The record still he’ll break,
And the universal verdict is
That Billy “takes the cake.”
Ask for the famous Billy Tea and see that
YOU GET IT.
Qranuma beats all other meals for Porridge.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
OUR CHIEF,
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
from America.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Chamberlain wafts titles about, but is
too canny to take one himself.
‘‘Merely a honorific title,”London Times
calls the Privy Councillorships of the Australian
premyahs.
. A duel to the death is likely to be fought
in Toorak (Melb.) constituency between a quon-
amOn and Pythias, Matt. Davies v. Punch
M Jvinley.
Hamilton (M.L.A.) to Stewart (M.L.A.) :
But, being Scotch, you cannot see a joke.”
Stewart: “ I see a political joke every time I look
at the hon. member ” ; which was not so bad—for
a Scotchman.
Bananaland is a land of magnificent dis-
tances. A Western M.L. A. complained, the other
day, that his electorate of 78,000 square miles con-
tained only one State school. Just think—an
electorate almost as big as Great Britain !
The cable, last week, announced that
Afridi sepoys on leave “ showed their loyalty by
returning to their regiments to fight against their
fellow tribesmen. ” A sweet thing, this loyalty,
evidently. And soarce a Britisher smiled as he
read.
Parliamentary humor. The only Hoolan :
‘‘lnnumerable lies are told every day. Society is
built upon lies.” Annear the Virtuous : “Surely
members of Parliament do not tell lies?” Hoolan :
‘lt is not permitted by the rules of the House to
answer that question ! ”
Vic. : “I repeat the prophecy that
Premier Turner is not long for the political world.
Of course he can stop as long as he likes. What a
fortune he could now make as a lawyer, if he re-
tired and stuck to business—stuck to the bone
and abandoned the shadow !
The Printing Committee of N.S.W. Par-
liament declined, a little before the adjournment
of the House, to print a petition containing 4349
signatures against the “ recognition of God ” in
the Federal Constitution, although any number of
petitions on the other side were passed over to the
printer.
Dear B.—Vic. members have to pay in-
come-tax on the annual value of their free railway
passes, sa,id annual value having been fixed by
Commissioner Webb at £5. Now, why not capi-
talise the K.C.M.G.-ship, and call upon Turner
and the rest to fork out the tax on the annual
value,?—S.
“This man Turner, what is ’e ? ’E is
worse than J. B. Patterson, that’s what ’e is. ’E
goes to England and ’e made a man drunk—that
seems to be the ’ight of ’is glory. ’E is a brutal
ruffin, an’ anything that’ll ’appen to ’im ’e’ll bring
on’s own ’ead.”— Criticism, of Premier Turner by
a Melb. unemployed agitator.
The winter of Irish discontent, according
to the cableman, has been “ made glorious summer
by the sun of York’’—because “ their Royal
Highnesses have everywhere been heartily
cheered.” Well, cheers are cheap ; and it’s mostly
the fellow who doesn’t cheer that’s got to be
reckoned with in the long run.
Vic. Railway Commissioner Matheson re-
ports that 26 engines and 1835 cars are missing out
of the alleged supply of rolling-stock !!! The
management which mislaid 1861 vehicles must
have been a harum-scarum affair, run on cham-
pagne and Flossie principles, and with its golden
hair a-hanging down its back.
Papers outside N.S.W. still talk of Dibbs
and M'Millan as probable nominees for the Agent-
Generalship. But Dibbs is out of politics, appar-
ently for good, and the sun of the M‘Billion seems
to have set. It is no use wasting a good billet on
a dead enemy when it is so much needed as a
means of getting rid of a live one.
W. H. Groom, M.P., wildly alleged in
Q. Assembly that a positive “rentage” of from
£3,000,000 to £4,000,000 is going out of Central
Queensland every year to absentees in England;
that one man alone draws £50,000 a year from the
district; and that a large portion of the Central
District is thus practically annexed to other
oountries.
Re the howl in Brisbane about taxing the
brewers. All that the Q. brewing co’s contri-
buted to the revenue last year was £397 as divi-
dend-tax. Moreover, Malt passes on to Bung the
extra 3d. per gallon duty on beer, and Bung passes
it on to the beer-chewer. Not only so, but Malt'
is actually a gainer by the tax. He has raised the
price of beer to Bung by £1 per hogshead, and
thus he gets 7s. 6d. more profit out of the hogs-
head than he used to do. Bung has raised the
price of “ colonial ” bottled beer by 6d. per bottle
—or just 100 per cent., and he meets the occasion
in re draught beer by giving smaller glasses as
alleged “ long-sleevers.” An attempt is being
made to raise the price of “ a pint ”to 6d.; it is
now 4d.—only “long-sleevers” and less quanti-
ties are 3d.
Electioneering yelps for an enquiry into
Civil Service salary “ anomalies ” are not likely to
get much sympathy from the Vic. Government,
though the Argus will endeavour to work the
alleged dissatisfaction for all it may be worth on
polling day. Premier,Turner said, the other
night, that he was “ sick and tired of the demands
made by public servants of one kind or another.”
“ How can the representative be greater
than the body he represents?” asks Salomons,
Q.C., arguing in some circuitous way in favor of
the Convention Bill going back to Parliament for
final approval. The direct answer, however, to
the question is: “The representative cannot be
greater than the body he represents, and that is
why the people are to be final judges of the Con-
vention’s work.”
The Empire customs-reciprocity question
isn’t nearly so new as it looks. Fifty years ago,
N.S.W. Govt, demanded that the advantages given
by Britain to Canada in the matter of imports
should be extended to Australia, and the negotia-
tions show that if Protection had not been aban-
doned by Britain, that country, Canada and
Australia would have established the Bund or
Zollverein of which Joseph Chamberlain dreams
to-day.
Melbourne Table Talk publishes a
ghastly slander to the effect that the Sunday-
closing crusade was dropped suddenly in the inter-
ests of the Sydney Freetrade press. Some of the
shops closed were news-agencies which collected
advts. for the morning papers. Their closure
naturally damaged business, therefore, it is alleged,
it suddenly struck the God-fearing Ministry that
“it was loaded.” Certainly Brunker did leave off
very suddenly.
The superstition of Government by Con-
tradiction still holds Premier Turner. Lately he
has been belaboring the Labor corner for alleged
want of discipline. “He wanted loyal support,”
&0., &c. Of course, he was wrong. The Labor
corner should not give more than support where
they approve. Turner wants their support whether
they approve or not, which is the old unprin-
ciple imported from the land that sent us the lags.
Party Government is on its last legs, and the more
distinctly Labor members recognise its essential
dangers the sooner will come reform.
WELL MEANT, BUT
PUB-BOOZER (on a pub.-to-pub. visitation) : “Gam! le’mebe! What call ha’ you got to
folleramanabout?”
FRIGHTFUL FEMALE PROHIVITIONIST (likewise on a pub.-to-pub. visitation): “Because
you are drunk! Because your brains are addled with the accursed drink!
(Shouts) If you won’t go of your own free will, I shall take you to your home
myself by force!!”
PUB.-BOOZER: “Hush, hush, mum, 1 tumble. You mean it kind, but—no no,’ twouldn’t
do. (Whispers) My missus is there.”
Victorian Railways Committee is so des-
perately anxious not to sanction the construction
of more non-paying lines that it is too badly-
scared to sanction the construction of any at all.
Thus the Collingwood line has just fallen into the
soup once more, and is again hung up indefinitely.
Yet, until it is made the Preston and Heidelberg
railways are mere idiotic detached scraps ending
nowhere, and the Collingwood line is the one
chance to get back the money spent on them and
to stop the annual loss.
This should in-
terest railway-boss
Mathieson, who has
given the Vic. pub-
lic an official tip to
the effect that civil-
ity on the part of
travellers towards
railway - employees
will usually elioi
civility in return.
A large train had
j ust drawn into Flin-
ders-st. station, the
other day, and
amongst the crowd
climbing the ramps
were two women
lugging heavy port-
manteaux, whilst an
indifferent porter
leaned against a
post, studying the
atmosphere, and
another critioised
the advts. on the
wall. A portly and
important-looking
citizen with a
brawny arm stepped
up, possessed him-
self of the women’s
luggage, and nobly
humped it up the in-
cline under the nose
of the reflective por-
ter, who was little
impressed, however,
and yawned elabor-
ately as the proees-
sion passed. The portly and important citizen
was Chief-Justice Madden.
No need to waste time in reading
through Vic. Parliament reports in the news-
papers. One can tell at a glance whether a
measure is progressive or retrogressive by the
names of members given in division-lists. Staugh-
ton or Smith (R. M.) always spell status quo —or
something worse, from a Liberal point of view.
Melb. : “ Tillet labored under the same
disadvantage as George and Davitt, in being
called upon to dilate before he got in touch with
the community. It is no use for a man of foreign
experience only to dart in at once anywhere with
criticism. Well, it is just the converse of Trenwith
wanting to impose his Australian color on English
Socialism, and retiring disgusted. Tillett will
learn directly that the working classes here have
more property than the merely genteel. Of course
the superlative Fat Man is everywhere noxious.”
FIRST AID TO THE INJURED .
CORONER: “ What means did you take to resuscitate the man?"
OFFICER NO. X1807 (who doesn't understand the word, hut is not to
he boxed, with an air of superior wisdom): “I removed his
watch, yer washup!”
Agent-General Playford probably returns to
S.A. next year, and will resume polities. Play-
ford showed an example to the other provinces in
shifting from Westminster to the “City,” and
working hard for the producers, instead of being
a mere figurehead running after a title. Like
Kingston, he has been absolutely above suspicion,
although a politician. Will be succeeded by
Holder or Cockburn, probably the latter.
Yic. : “ Someone exhumes Deakin’s re-
fusal to join the Turner Cabinet because it was a
stop-gap. Alfred sealed his political doom. He
had the ball at his feet: was the Chamberlain of
the hour. But he had not the pluok. Turner was
looked on then as a forlorn hope. It is difficult to
place ourselves again in the position of the time,
and realise what a little was thought of him.
Deakin! Wrixon ! These were the gods of
Israel. With a sigh for Gillies, the utility man.”
A. Inglis Clark is not a member of this
Federal Convention. It would have been easy
to find him a seat; but the Tasmanian Attorney-
General’s health, is, despite his trip to America,
far from good. It is the case of a barrister in good
practice keeping his practice and parliamentary
work going at once. A barrister cannot delegate
his work. For years past Tasmania’s best Minis-
ters have been its Attorneys-General, and they
have all found the work too heavy. Now things
are still worse, as the Solicitor-General is not in
Parliament.
Edward Langton, boss man of the Stan-
dard Bank, the most wretched bank in the seven
provinces, appeared the other day as ,a hopelessly
Tory candidate for Toorak, and complained that
Premier Turner wasn’t keeping the finances
straight. For a Standard Bank magnate to
criticise anybody’s finance requires an amazing
amount of brassy assurance. Langton says that
Protection and socialistic legislation have both
been a failure. The one point in his favor here is
that a man with a Standard Bank on his hands
should know all about failures.
Anarchist White read an “ open letter ” to
Premier Turner at the Yarra-bank Sunday sym-
posium lately. It was couched in the most fero-
cious terms, and, somewhat plainly, charged
Turner and his pals with guzzling at banquets
while the poor were starving. The allusion was to
the St. Kilda A.N.A. “ booze-up,” certainly not a
dignified affair. Unfortunately, however, the
letter contained some mere foundationless abuse
about “harlots,” which will destroy any good
effect it might otherwise have had. It has been
posted to Turner, but no One knows if the rumor
about his retirement from office is due to reading
it.
If R. E. O’Connor and Edmund Barton
stand for N.S.W. Assembly at next election, as it
is generally believed they will, and get in, which
they probably will, it will completely alter the
political situation. Lyne will disappear from the
lead rship to a certainty, and the balance of
debating power, which is at present with the
Government, will shift round to the Opposition
unless some new men appear on the Freetrade
side. Also, with these two big men against them,
the pitiable smallness of such creatures as Brunker
and Gould and Garrard and Sydney Smith will
stick out more conspicuously than ever, if such a
thing be possible.
Apropos the threatened removal of the
Melb. clothing-factory work to Sydney : It would
be worth some N.S. Wales M.P.’s while to ask
that reports on certain Sydney and suburban fac-
tories sent in by the lady-inspector be tabled.
Some of the statements are said to be astounding,
but, for political reasons doubtless, they have been
carefully pigeonholed, and will not see the light
with Ministerial approval. It is alleged that
capable female button-hole machinists (whose
work is trying and requires careful and expert
operatives) can only earn about 2d. per hour ; that
the wages received by seamstresses in a genteel
and “light work’’place are 6s. and 7s. a week;
and that this wage can only be acquired after four
or five years’ experience !
At the home reception to Premier Turner,
Chief-Sec. Peacock called on the electors of St.
Kilda to give “his chief” the honor of a walk-over,
and he finished up with a fervid Jingo peror-
ation, from which it was to be inferred that Aus-
tralia was the loyalest country in the universe,
that Victoria was the loyalest of the group, and
that Peacock was the loyalest Victorian. Pea-
cock’s loyalty is so marvellous a thing on this occa-
sion that the stupidity of alluding to a walk-
over for Turner can only be regarded as a small
matter. There is not the faintest suspicion that
anyone proposes to contest St. Kilda with Turner.
Only a fool would do it. The Radicals trust
Turner, and the Tories trust his titles, and the
non-politicians'trust his reputation, and the idea
of any microscopic Cold ham having “ another go
at him ” is only to be mentioned as a joke.


Tbs Straod Mmsry Bazaar,
George-street Entrance,
Are making a SPECIAL SHOW of
| NEW & SEASONABLE GOOD* sT~|
JUST COME AND LOOK AT THE PRICES IN OUR WINDOWS.
HERE ARE A FEW FETCHING LINES:
Townend’s Hats, Black and Colored, at
Regatta and White Shirts, reduced to
Ceylon Pyjamas ••• from
Flannel Undershirts, large size ... ...
Silk Stripe Tennis Shirts... ... from
Mat Oxford Shirts ... £om
Crimeans, Bands and Collars on from
Club Striped Hat Bands
Club Striped Mufflers ... ... at
Colored Merino Half-Hose ■••.. v’ on i
Colored Merino Half - Hose, without
s. d.
3 6
1 11
3 6
2 6
2 6
2 6
2 6
0 10 g
1 6
0 3J
0 5£
I. and R. Morley’s Navy Cash
Half-Hose
A Splendid Line of French
Braces
Strong English Braces ... ...
Natural and Striped Under-
shirts and Pants _
Henley Straws, ail sizes at
New Shapes in Soft Felts
New Polo Linen Collars at
Three Windows full of Scarfs
and Bows at 4d, 6d, and
s. d.
0 lli
0 10i
0 4
1 9
1 0
1 11
0 3
1 0
s. d.
and 0 9
and 2 6
and 4 6
each
A Large M
The Straod Mercery Bazaar,
414 ©eorge-atreet, Sydney.
ISS
inm
1
VioIiQS-
PALING & CO. have a superb stock of over 600 instruments,
including best models of celebrated old masters, from
21s. each.
AOto HarpS.
These are simple little instruments, upon which any child can
play, with all the latest improvements, from lbs. complete.
tyofttb NarnjopscaS.
PALING & CO. have all the newest styles, with imitation
ivory and tortoiseshell cases, with gold bronzed reeds
from 6d. each.
Accordcoos & CoiKcrtiijaS.
Imperial Miniature and large sizes, with steel or bronze reeds,
from 12s. 6d. Royal Accordeons, from 7s. 6d.
(aOitarS & Maodolipes.
By best Spanish, Italian, and American makers with machine
heads, from 12s. 6d.
AriStoQS & Polypboo^.
With hundreds of tunes, splendid tone, small and
giant size, from £2 2s.
Bai)d lQStr6fi)€ot£ of all kii>ds
By the best makers —Boosey & Co., Besson & Co.,
and Cousenon & Co. All of the very best quality, and
at prices fully 20 per cent, less than elsewhere.
Catalogues Post Free.
Pianos, Organs, Sheet and Book Music
Large Stock. Great Variety. Low Prices.
EASY TIME-PAYMENT TEEMS.
f
m)
ESTABLISHED /q S3
338 George-street, Sydney.
m
is
The
'
mint 01
/excellence^
(has been
gained by
(Dunlop Tyre: a'
(good article, made
(only of the
Materials obtainable,
(backed by a liberal
(guarantee, has placed it
r far ahead of its many
•rivals and imitators; and
the tyre that was first in
1888 has retained its foremost
position ever since.
Tbs PCiQlop PosGnjatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at
Swanston-street, Melbourne;
Franklin-street, Adelaide;
King-street, Perth ;
Litchfield-street, Christchurch, N.Z,
At Poverty Point.
George Rignold ploughs about Melb. on a bike, and is
One of the sights. George rides a very substantial
machine, with tubing like a water-main, and needs to,
going, as he does, about three to the ton. Henry V.’s
calves are just the size of two prize-babies, and, encased
in gaudy stockings, moving with a certain majesty, up-
and-down, they excite the awe and admiration of all
beholders on St. Kilda esplanade, as the only real big
show in town.
People watching Mark Hambourg’s digits notice that he
has dropped that graceful hawk-like swoop upon the notes
which characterised his previous playing in Sydney. He
reverts to it only in an occasional Chopin item. By the
way, that “ Erard grand ” obviously saps a little of the
pianist’s life away each time he gets within its grip.
Paradis : “ With a new man to splash the cash, the
Melb. Alexandra opens again. Now, have they a Mulli-
gan? Its no use making the boards a Poverty Point
Tepidarium and Frigidarium. No, the minor stage ought
to be a Sudatorium. In other words, lots of elbow-grease,
perspiration ; hit out, give it rats —beans, toko. Charity
is cold. People will stop away because the actors want a
dinner. This Alexandra acting must have gingery go.
Let it be a bit ridiculous, even. The full-moon face of
J. C. Williamson will then rise upon the bob dress-circle,
looking for an actor. Why don’t they go in boldly to do
Shakespere horribly bad ? ”
A popular artiste from over the seas, who used to sing a
oertain popular song vears ago in Melbourne, had the
effect of it heightened by getting pennies thrown to her.
A few decoy coppers each night brought a goodly crop of
browns. One night a two-shilling pieoe was supposed to
have been thrown—and went missing. Whereupon the
lady sent the call-boy to the dressing-rooms of the chorus
to make enquiries. Most of the girls were too exasper-
ated to say much, but one buxom damsel seized the boy
by the shoulders, ran him down the stairs, and shouted :
“Go and tell her we are Australians—we don’t steal l ”
And ever after, when that star sang, the noses of the
chorus used to point heavenwards—every eye was
absorbed watching something interesting in the flies.
Melb. : “ The ‘ professional ’ greed for jewels is amazing.
A certain visiting star on the voyage out, months ago,
warned all * in the know ’ on no account to reveal the fact
that she had been some years married. The reason for
this was apparent one night when an infuriated French-
man met her at the stage-door and shrieked ‘You haf
deceive me ! Femme perfide ! I tear your image from
my heart. You are married! Aha! I know! Gif me
back my diamant ring ! ’ She did. Not that it mattered
much. A spendthrift Hebrew supplied the Frenchman’s
SI ace (on same terms), and jewellery fairly rained upon
he lucky artiste.”
The despised offering of the god. At Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), the other night, after an actress had smiled
forty times and bowed till she nearly broke off short at
the centre over the big bouquets which were handed up
from the expensive part of the house, a little bunch of
flowers hurtled through the air from the gods. It struck
the stage with a thud, and lay there a minute or so before
it was picked up and dumped on the table. Then the
actress went off and left it, and bv-and-bye it drifted from
the table to a chair. Then it gravitated to the floor, and
when the curtain came down some thoughtful person,
gresumably, kicked it into the middle of next week any-
ow, when the next act commenced it was gone.
The present burst of feminine admiration for a certain
“ heavy lead ” amounts practically to a worship of stage
legs. Previous to his taking the limelight in an abbre-
viated tunic the mature young man was a very small idol,
but now he is a subject for hysterical comment at four
o’clock teas. And yet lovely woman still professes to feel
disgusted at male sentiment towards the ballet.
A tip for the showman who takes a Oinematographe
into the backblocks : carry plenty of sea-scenes. At far-
inland dusty Broken Hill the ocean-pieces alone keep the
’Graphe going week after week. At a matinee lately (a
Bulletin correspondent there says) I inquired of the
nearest dozen youngsters how many of them had seen the
sea ; only three had. And a backblocker drove his brood
of five 55 miles to give them an idea of what the ocean
is like.
An Australian pressman was vigorously assailed the
other day by a certain showman for daring to suggest
that his show might be improved upon. Language was
sultry, and the showman demanded, “ What do I pay
your paper for?” “ For advertisements?” “No,
indeed! I pay to get notices!” Which idea needs
promptly killing. Next day the showman went to the
office of the offending newspaper to get the pressman the
royal order of the sack. When he saw it was no go—he
just asked the manager and the critic out to take a drink.
Alice Holbrook, sister of Mrs. Barney Barnato, is the
girl who used to pester Melb. pressmen for a paragraph in
days of yore, when she played background parts at the
Princess’s. Her great delight was to get, say, three dozen
“notices” at one fell swoop, by means of a press-agency
which furnished the aforesaid number of country news-
papers with a Melb. letter. It was, of course, always the
same letter, with the same two-line references to Miss
Holbrook, but the damsel liked to revel in the sweet de-
lusion that each paper ran its own special correspondent,
and she would call at the office, day after day, to inspect
her notice as it came trickling: in from the backblock
townships. Alice had no sense of humor whatever.
A GROAN.
My soul is surfeited with problem-plays
And art decadent. Oh, give back again
The simpler, saner lights of other days
When heroines were never bad or plain.
Now Aubrey Beardsley’s nightmares are the rage,
Marie Corelli's gospel’s deemed sublime,
Ebbstniths and Hedda Gabblers hold the stage
That Rosalinds and Juliets trod one time.
Would that all fudge, of crack brains emanate,
Were to the lowest depths of ocean hurled,
And Art once more would strive to imitate
This sorry, sinful, sane and sunlit world.
M.L. Hinemoa.
The order is in hand for a fine memorial stone to mark
the grave of the late Madame Simonsen at St. Kilda
(Melb.) cemetery.
Walter Bentley has become a fixture in Brisbane. He
has commodious rooms (Scottish instinct led him to the
Y.M C.A. building), and a pew in the most respectable
church. Also, he spends some considerable part of each
week-day in telling comely lady-pupils to elevate the
head a little, and so forth. Likewise he is running a
series of popular concerts, which have been full of fat and
kudos thus far —as Brisbane goes.
The rumors which married beauteous Elliott Page to
Julius Knight, are quite without foundation, as ma Page
hastens to inform everyone. This, too, with an air as if
to say “ the consent of a mother-in-law elect is no trifling
matter.”
Melba appears as sole prima-donna at the Donizetti
Centenary Festival. She has well studied the role of
Marie in “ The Daughter of the Regiment, and will also
personate Lucia. As she fights shy of Wagner and says
that the old German treated the human voice as if it were
a trombone, Melba finds that she must cultivate the
acquaintance of additional singable composers to add to
her repertoire.
An outcry has been raised by many members of the
musical profession in Sydney owing to the apparent
favoritism shown in the selection of performers at the
Federal Convention conversazione and other functions.
One gentleman in particular, whose name appears every
other morning as having sung here, there, and every-
where, howls very mournfully on the subject.
Actors often advise stage-struck friends to keep clear of
“ the profession,” but in what pursuit, other than polities
or bookmaking, could men of the same education and
mental calibre do so well? Following is an extract
from a letter written by a man who, with his wife,
drew £4O a week in Australia :—“ I done six months
here an Cept my end up all the Time, i had a ofer to go
to Afarica but i am goin to england were I won’t Hafter
Hustle for work i open at the (two incorrectly-
spelt words) in September.” Yet the man was always
railing at “show business,” and wishing he could “git
inter suthin else.”
A Melbourne pastor, who loans the use of his little
bethel for “skirt-dancing and other dancing,” quotes
Rev. Stewart Headlam (satirised in “Vicar of Bray”) to
the effect that “ The Ballet is Worship.” Everything is
worship, if you only open the proceedings with a short
prayer and end it with a collection.
Things dramatio. At mighty Oobar (N.S.W.). “The
management of the hall,” says the local Herald, “ ought
to see about obtaining proper lamp-shades for the foot-
lights. Surely the few shillings they would cost would
not break them. The kerosene-tins at present in use are
an offence to the eye.”
Frank Lincoln says the remembrance of one awful audi-
ence will haunt him till his dying day. For a solid hour
and a quarter he told his funniest stories, one after the
other, till the perspiration trickled into his eyes, and no
one even smiled. They only grinned mildly when he
pulled a face. Then Lincoln “ caved in.” The sight of
those stolid faces gazing up at him steadfastly right
through a shriekingly funny joke was too much, even for
an American. It was not till an excited person, with
much gesture, appeared on the scene, that the true “ in-
wardness” of the situation revealed itself. There was a
panorama-show on at a neighboring institute, and by
some error, a deaf-and-dumb asylum, which had been
invited, got drafted into Lincoln’s hall. The recollection
of those mutes patiently waiting for him to turn the pic-
tures on, while he told funny stories with the energy of
despair, is Lincoln’s “ ghost.”
H.P. : “ An effusive Melb. writer having referred to the
time when Brooke drew crowds to the old wooden Melb.
Princess’s, I wrote in these columns that he never acted
there at all. Whereupon ‘ J.M.F.’ writes that he saw
him act there in the period when Henry Edwards and
George Fawcett Rowe managed the Theatre Royal for
Brooke as proprietor, while Fawcett was lessee of the .
Princess’s. I fancy ‘J.M.F.’ is an old friend and asso-
ciate of mine, as an amateur. I would like him to be
sure he is correct, and furnish the character. If lam
wrong, Brooke must obviously have only appeared for
some benefit, in opposition to his own theatre.”
H. : “ Someone, in these columns, terms Horace Bent
an American. I have heard he was born in Geelong.
After Australian experiences, he toured America for long
with cornettist Kohler, and then was accounted here a
U.S. man.”
Much as he talks about his “ profession ” the boxer
always disowns it at first chance. Fitzsimmons, in a
Chicago court, described himself as an “ actor.” Which
was a gross insult to two professions.
Sydney City Council, according to the Mayor, derives
£lOOO a year from M. Wiegand’s Town Hall organ
recitals. This, after paying the organist’s salary of £5OO,
leaves £5OO to the city—which looks an unusually sound
piece of aldermanic financing.
Robert Buchanan : “ Under the existing conditions of
the stage it is utterly impossible for a man whose ideas
are not in accord with popular ideals, aspirations and
superstitions, to express those ideas in work intended for
popular representation. The public does not want ideas
of any sort; it wants to be diverted. . . . When I
turn to the theatre, I want to escape the bogies, not to
meet them ; I expect to find, not cackle about good work
and bad work, but freedom, merriment, amusement. The
racecourse is best, but the theatre comes next, and the
prig and the moralist are trying to rob us of both.”
In ’Frisco theatres, when a lady enters wearing a
matinee hat, she is carefully spotted by a door attendant.
As soon as she is seated, an usher walks up to her with a
printed card of request for removal of the hat obviously
and ostentatiously displayed on a silver salver. If it be
not removed inside a minute or two, a second usher
repeats the performance, and so on, if necessary, even
unto seventy times seven. The theatre wins every time,
for no woman born of woman could ever stand public
ridicule.
At a smoke-concert held at Clifton Hill (Melb.) the
other week one of the best items on the programme came
from Joe Dyas, who gave a “ Hamlet ” soliloquy and a
song Dyas went to school with J. L. Toole, and acted as
prompter at Melb. Theatre Royal in the days when Nellie
Stewart was not yet born.
Recently Wiegand was officially requested by Melbourne
Corporation to inspect the organ in the City Hall,
organist Wood, of St. Paul’s Cathedral, assisting at the
enquiry. As anticipated, Wiegand suggested a vox
humana stop, bells, and other additions, to which Wood
gravely nodded. To effect the improvements will, it is
understood, cost some £3OOO, and the city fathers are
still scratching their heads on the subject.
Announced that the ex-prison-ship Success has proved
a paying exhibition in England, as “ a relic of early Aus-
tralian settlement.” No wonder Bull takes it for granted
that early Australia was all convict!


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FriM'HKlt IMIIIORn RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (laimited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch-262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
vious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every £1 to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over £lO
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
HVTEW SOUTH WALES
iAI PIETE D. and I. CO.,
MONT DE
Limited.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
OPENING OF THE SOUTHERN BRANCH,
at 202 Castlereagh-street,
portion of the Federal Coffee Palace Building.
With a view of affording greater facilities in the
conduct of business with its constituents and the
borrowing public generally, the Directors of
the abovenamed Company have opened a
BRANCH OFFICE, under the management of
Mr. H. A. BIRKAIYRE, at Premises on the
ground floor of the Federal Coffee Palace, No.
202 CASTLE REACH STREET (between
Bathurst and Liverpool Streets), Sydney, where
the Company is now prepared to make Advances
upon Mortgage of FREEHOLDS, BILLS OF
SALE OF FURNITURE (without possession),
LEGACIES, REVERSIONARY INTERESTS,
SCRIP, LIFE POLICIES, BOND WAR-
RANTS, and all other securities, at EXCEP-
TIONALLY LOW RATES, and at terms to
suit Borrowers.
LEWIS LEVY,
General Manager.
—THE—
Universal Land & Deposit Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TiE DENTURES issued, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest—3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable quar-
terly or half-yearly.
The holder of Debenture Bonds has a security in the
assets of the Company, past, present, and future. De-
posits to limited amounts received at 5 p.c. per annum.
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank Limited has
never reconstructed or suspended payment in any wav
since its formation. The whole of its Funds are carefully
invested in Real Estate.
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
X
RegiQald A. F. fiGrray,
F.G.S. London,
Late Govt. Geologist for Victoria, is
prepared to enter into engagement to
inspect and report on mines in any of
the Australasian provinces.
National Mutual Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Music, &c.
HOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash,&c. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
O WARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
OWARD'S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete, from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
H
H
OWAKD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (£ tone), from fid.
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
* n all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S American Organs, foreash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
2ls., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
_ _Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
OWARD’S Elutes and Piccolos, in endless
from 6d. to 25g5.; cash or terms.
Spanish, American,
Woollahra.
H
H
OWARD’S Guitars, _ r
L French, and German ; terms.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Plat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st,, Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
FREE —ALBERT’S
New Illustrated
Catalogue to any ad-
dress Violins, 7s 6d,
12s 6d, 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355, and
150 s ; Autoharps, 12s 6d, 21s ; Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s, 17s
18s, 255, and 30s ; Cornets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, and’9os;
Banjos, best, 63s and 90s ; Zither Banjos, 75s and 80s;
Concertinas, ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang
Mouth Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, Is 6d.
All 2s music reduced. Our prices are only about half
others’ charges. Send for our New Catalogue to
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
. Banking, Public Companiea, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <& Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
£150,000 0
£60,000 0
£44,770 0 0
0 0
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP ..
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business ..
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Hients, 31st December. 1896 £6.056,847
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith. Es C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer’
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FRKDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
»pHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies' Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,702,522 17 11
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 47,477 2 1
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2.805.781
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthurs. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. ll.Tuekett,
Esq.; Anarew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager: Francis Grey
Smith. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Walks (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
mHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office— Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP TT ... £400,756
RESERVE LIABILITY .. ~. 225000
RESERVE FUND .. .. 33^000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
-THE-
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 453,886 11 1
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,117,369.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ;A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. •
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office: 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents:
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2 000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 50o|o00
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4 800 000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2*950,’211 ss.
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gvles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors; VVm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager : John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidnev B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Ojjiee: 1 Bishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, * South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Con>paoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
1 United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
O .r H M AD OFFICES •' 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins
Melbourne. n A..WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. T). BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
! £ a “ e Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code—Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Clarke & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. Latest Information from Special Correspon-
dents at Broken Hill.
Stocks Ular,i ° f al * AuBtralian Investment and Mining
Our ‘“INVESTORS' GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
„ Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE 1 ,
GEELONG
PORTLAND | ,
WARRNAMBOOL J 1
Time, Friday, September 10, 2 p.m.
•Leura, Friday, September 10, 5 p.m.
Buninyonjr, Tuesday, Sept. 14, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
PORT AUGUSTA
PORT PI HIE
ESPERANCE Bay
Time, Friday, September 10, 2 p.m. *
•Leurn, Friday, September 10, 5 p.m.
Buninyong, Tuesday, Sept. 14, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyonp, Tuesday, Sept. 14, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 11, 2 p.
-Burwah, Tuesday, Sept. 14, 5 p.m.
Leura Saturday, Sept. 18, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 11, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 18, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily
IOIVEBT U ltlil.M FA K F.S TO AU PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Sc SONS, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street.
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
. SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, Melbourne
& Teohnioal
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. f^^lbo6ri}Q.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted-
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague’House.
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
The Central Queensland Band
Corporation Limited,
CAPITAL —£120,000 in £1 Shares fully Paid Up.
THUS Corporation was formed for the purpose of ac-
quiring the practical MONOPOLY OF LAND in the
rapidly rising district of GLADSTONE, Port Curtia.
The extension of the main system of Railways will be
completed to Gladstone in October next.
The Company was registered in London last rear all
the shares being applied for and allotted. Arrangements
are, however, made for the issue in Australia of 20 000
Shares—an interim dividend of Five per cent, per annum
being guaranteed. The Coupons will be paid half-yearly
by the Bank of Victoria. For full particulars apply to
any of the following Sharebrokers:—H. C. Doyle Esq
(Sharebroker, Sydney Stock Exchange), Union ’Bank
Chambers, 70 Pitt-street, Sydney; Stanley Harris Esq
180 Queen-street, Brisbane; David Nasmith, Esq , 92
Queen-street, Melbourne; Messrs. Johns & Magor Royal
Exchange, Adelaide, S.A. ; .John S. Reid, Esc \ M~P
Buildings, Perth, W.A.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
X Price Waning. Is. 3d.
Shipping.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
-t ‘or London.
mm sanies. ” win leave at 4 p.m.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £'37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
liable termsfor passagesfrom England. G. DOUGLAS
AUCUIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
Leaves
Welling-
ton.
Sept. 18
Oct. 16
Nov. 12
Juv/ii ui iiy .
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Bates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. INI, Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly
SYDNEY and NEW HEBRIDES—MonthIy.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—W eekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
®™NEY-Bu r ns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
& Co - Co,lins Street.
W - MacDonald, Currie Street.
™‘AIANTLE an? PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—-British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LAS PALMAS,
LONDON.
The, above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
£ First Saloon Fare | London, £4O ; Natal and Capetown,
Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street, Sydney:
JOHN SANDERSON '& CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne: or
GEO. WILLS tfi. CO..
Grenfe 11-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
stfTmprT are ~c arrj e d. u b y the IMPERIAL MAIL
t . r, • according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON ("London!
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES,’and GENOA
From GENOA, NAPLES, or SOUTHAMPTON, DIRECT
.Vs no ius. can De
prepaid in England and Europe for Passengers from Aus-
tralia and vice versa. J. MERGELL. General Agent
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney. ’
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports. ’
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, September 14.
S.S. Bullarra (from Sj-dney) Tues-
day, September 21.
ALBANY, >
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to l
YASSE, DONGARRA, I
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Wollowra(from Sydney)
Tuesday, September 14.
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, September 21.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about;
September 21.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
• S. Adelaide
September 14.
Tuesday,
Best <& Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


STEWART DAWSON & COS
Sydney and Melbourne Establishments—the Finest in the World. ;
Inapproachable Variety. Uijeqtialkd ValCic. WoodcrfGl SckctioQ.
The most rfeherchd and magnificent display of Watches, Jewellery, Diamond Goods and Silverware ever brought together.
rir a t V— POPUI " rity '
412 George-street, and Strand, Sydney; 97 & 99 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Solid Silver Double Photo. FRAME, £2 28.
MMMiIMUim
Solid Silver Cloth BRUSH, 7J4in., 17s. 6d.
DAISY BROOCH, 8 fine Diamonds, Sapphires, £5 6s.
Handsome Solid Silver BON-BON DISH
B£in. by 4in., £2 7s. 6d.
Handsome Diamond CRESCENT BROOCH, f 9
Smaller Sizes at £2O to £4O.
No. 590.-—l6ot. GOLD BROOCH, Rubies and
Diamonds, £2 10s.
■i
Elegant BROOCH, 18 fine Diamonds,
7 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Heart and Lovers’ Knot BROOCH, artistic
design, Amethyst and 9ct. Gold, 18s. 6d.
Keyless HUNTING LEVER, Solid Silver Cases,
£3 10s. ; Key Wind, capped and jewelled,
£3 10s.; J-plate Movement, Keyless, Hunting
Case, £6 l(fe.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold,
3# Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver-mounted Real Tortoishell COMB,
7Mim, £1 Is.
Ladies’ ALBERT, net. Gold, £2 2s. ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Set LINKS, 9ct. Gold,
15s. 6d.; 15ct., £l los.
Silver, 4s. fid.
Ladies’ RING,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £2.
H
15ct. Gold Engraved
LOCKET, £1 ss.
Handsome Double Scroll BRACELET, 12 fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £l3 10s.
Very "’levant fine Diamond BRACELE
X .is design in smaller sizes, from i. i
Magnificently Engraved WAITERS, best Electro Silver-plated
on Nickel. Sizes —10in., £2 ; 12in., £2 10s.; Him, £3 ss.
Elegant 9ct. Gold BRACELET, £2 10s.; ditto 15ct. ditto, £4 lCs.
Handsome Half-hoop BRACELET, 16 fine Diamonds,
9 fine large Sapphires, £2l.
Half-hoop, fine Whi Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold, £5 5s
Ha'f-hoop, fine Diamond?,
18ct. Gold, ±8 10s.
OTHER
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock BRACELET,
9ct. Gold, £3 3s. ; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s. ; 15ct. Gold, £4 7s. 6d.
9ct. Gold, £1 155.; 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
SIZES.
PIN and STUD,
15ct. Gold, 7 Pearls,
£1 15s.
GLOVE STRETCHER, Solid Silver Handler,
Ivory Points, B}^m. , £1 2s. 6d.
Ladies’ ALBERT, Ret. Gold, 12; 15ct., 13 10s.
LINKS, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is.;
15ct. Gold, £ll7s. 6d.
Silver, ss. 6d.
Ladies’ RING, 7 Dia-
monds, 2 Sapphires,
18cfc. Gold, £4 10s.
15ct. Gold LOCKET,
Diamond Centre, £2 ss.
m
m
mm
nmifHfnijWnnw" s '"
Solid Silver pierced FRUIT DISH, with Handle,
B%in. by £s 17s. 6d.
The New Crocodile PURSE, Sterling Silver Lock and
Corners, various lengths; 215., 255., and 30s.
: ,
nniPiHio
No. 519.—G01d BROOCH, 14s. 6d.
Pe iris and Sapphires, 18s. (id.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, 9in. long, £1 5s
Elegant Diamond STAR, £5O. Similar sizes at
£3O to £4O.
15ct. Gold BROOC H, set I'ne Pearls, £2 2s.
w
Elegant Double Heart BROOCH, 31 fine Diamonds,
and 1 Pearl, £7 12s. 6d
No. 587.—G01d BROOCH, New Design, 15s. 6d
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Keyless HUNTER, £5 10s. •/
ditto Silver ditto, £2 10s.
Unapproachable in Quality and Price.
Nonpareil Ladies’ Gold Hunting Watch, £7 10s.
Any of the above articles sent Post Paid to any colony on receipt of remittance. Illustrated Pamphlet forwarded Free.
NOTE.—The elegance, variety, and extent of our stocks of FINE GOLD JEWELLERY, SILVERWARE and NOVELTIES, SUITABLE FOB. PRESENTS, have never been approached.
Over Twenty Thousand Pounds value having arrived by recent mail-boats, our establishments are a complete constellation of brilliancy and a panorama of artistic show. Everything NEW, ELEGANT, and
of UNEQUALLED VALUE. Our prices save to every purchaser from six to eight shillings m the pound.
George-street, Sydney; Swanston-street, Melbourne.


Packets
Dears
EXTR4
P</Aur<
I
PURE
MUD
nufaciured
Payerne
Is.
“ Two GrOOD THINGS ”
. . Madb in England. . .
Worcestershire SBiIICG
Holbrookes Pure Pickles
68 PRIZE MEDALS.
For Soups, Fish, Chops, Steaks, etc., HOLBROOK’S SA roir .
CHEAPEST, and has the LARGEST SALE of anv DELICIOUS, the
PICKLES are selected ENGLISH prepared fn PURE MAtt?' HOLBROOK’S
in Onions, Mixed, Walnuts, Piccalilli, and Chow-Chow firsYdass GrtS ffar ’ and be had
Agent for New South Wales:
Agents for Victoria:
Mr. James C. Wright, 80 Pitt-street, Sydne
Messrs. Wm. Peterson & Co., Melbourne.
SAHITfIS"
Eli
Sfc SANITAS 2$
S\v,- *u,4lq«Uli ,
NITAS" "SANITAS
OUR TWO RICISURCD TRADE MARKS
SANITAS”
NON POISONOUS.
• DOES NOT STAIN.
ECIANT, antiseptic.
AND DEODORANT combined.
FLUID
tl - I
ALSO
POWDER,
SOAPS,
Sulphur
(Fumigating-)
Candles,
AND
ALL KINDS OF
DISINFECTANTS.
“ The Hat of • Sanitas ‘ preparations is now so great
“as to comprise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant
"armamentarium The composition of most of these
“is based on ‘Sanitas,'a deservedly popular, pleasant,
"and moreover active compound."
Lancet, August 24th, 1895, p. s*l
“How to Disinfect.”
Book sent FREE on applications
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
THE SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
o&°
RED BIRD.
r FtU
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—64 King St., Sydney.
Agents and )
Depots j
Everywhere.
Agents and
Depots
Everywhere.
The life preserver of cycling is the Red Bird. When
all other cycles fail, try one, and see what it is to
enjoy life.
The long trail of cycling in Australia is strewn with
the bleaching wrecks of abandoned mounts. No Red
Bird frames are seen among these sad monuments, as
the Red Bird is built of nickel steel and never requires
repairs.
Good fellowship is the motto for rim makers.
A good tyre is a vain thing : it is always puffed up.
Thbt say retired racing men should be classed as
export.
If you don’t ride Electric tyres you may find your-
self like the gentleman from Kentucky, who said—
“ Some terrible things are likely to happen. You
might go off somewhere in a hurry, and the first thing
you know—siss ! you got a puncture. And there you
are, maybe 40 miles from a drink and 20 miles from a
lemon. It’s a serious matter, sah, I tell you ”
I long to ride where wood and wold
Are garbed with green and gleam with gold,
Beneath the summer sun astride
My Red Bird wheel, and gaily glide
Far from the white and weary road,
Where in the cool recesses hide
The bright bush blossoms, whence a load
Of sweet clematis silver stars
I bear twined round the handle-bars.
And as I gaily spin along
And trill a cheery cycling song,
I think of her upon whose breast
Those fortune-favored blooms will rest.
Your patience I have sorely tried
In telling how I long to ride.
You say “ The summer’s coming in,
Why don’t you take this wished-for spin ?
While greenly gleam the woodland ways,
And longer draw the dreamy days ;
You tell us what you’d like to do,
What in creation hinders you ? ”
My staunch Red Bird lacks not the oil,
Rigid and light she ready stands,
And but requires the guiding hand
And eager feet’s jov-giving toil,
But—oh my saddle" rests a boil.
Humber
(America)
Simpson
(Lever Chain)
Sparkbrook
Bicycles
AUSTRALIAN . .
CYCLE & tyOTOR CO., Limited,
4-S York, Street, SYDNEY.
Bicycles
Premiers
Calcotts
St. Swithin
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Redleap achieved greatness in days of yore.
Last week the Millers’ gelding had some more greatness
thrust upon him, in the form of a 16st. 41b. handicap for
the Findon Harriers’ Oup at Caulfield. This is presum-
ably a world's record in racing weight.
* * * *
“ Australian racers here are not doing too much
to elevate either the form or morality of the hazy, mazy
turf, writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “An
enquiry is ordered into the running and non-running of
a certain mare whose name is not published as vet, but
whose sudden change from limp lethargy to galvanic
velocity was a startler. And there are fair indications of
others looking for’ a similar public pillorying. For in-
stance, Maluma in Newmarket Handicap form, with 6st.
111 b., is nowhere in the Goodwood Stewards’ Cup six-
furlong flutter. From 20 to 1 she fell to 10’s in 12 hours,
because the stable put on the price of a jockey’s mount,
but the whisper was ‘ not yet,’ and it was trood. They
must have the pot or nothing, and, should it boil over or
fuSS i :rom J" 00 rnuc^l preliminary simmering, theirs be
the little-grudged loss. The Cesarewitch two-miles is the
intended scoop now, and 4 Have a dive ’ is the advice to
plungers.”
* * * *
appears to be the pet weakness of the
St. Albans’ stable. Previous to them backing (?) him for
Melbourne Cup, the son of Robinson Crusoe ran badly on
several occasions, and, since the Cup-money was invested,
he has proved himself a delusion and a snare. On Satur-
day, again, Manfred, with 5 to 4 on, got easily beaten by
Devon, in a mile race.
* * * *
® am Raider had a good day out at the
Oxboro on Saturday, winning the double, Windsor and
Hawkesbury Handicaps, with the two Splendor horses,
Devoted and Parthenopseus. No less than four favorites
won right off the reel, and there was mourning in Israel.
* * * *
At Melb. Agricultural Show, Calista beat Oster-
!ey in the trotting contest. Calista’s average for the
three days was 2min. 31sec. for a mile, as against
Osterley’s 2min. 34sec. Osterley holds a 3-mile record of
7min. 30%sec. At Bathurst, N.S.W., show champion
Fritz s average for the three days was a shade under 2.17.
♦ * * *
Oil 24th July last the Recorder of Liverpool
(Eng.) acquitted two bookies charged with ready-money
betting in a yard, on the ground that a yard was not a
“place” within the meaning of the Act. His decision
was based upon that of the Court of Appeal, which
decided that the enclosed Tattersall’s Ring, at Kempton
Park (Eng.), was not a “place,” and on that reasoning
neither was an enclosed yard a place.
Yards off Liverpool’s leading thoroughfares are
now fetching enormous rents from bookies, hitherto run-
ning risks by betting in pubs, and offices (which are
places). Many of the perambulating pencillers of Mel-
bourne are following the lead, and the recent modification
of the “ moving on ” clause of the city police regulations
strengthens the itinerant layers’ position immensely. Not
a few of the leading Melb. metallicians have recommenced
open street-betting, and make no bones about their
opinion that, on these recent English decisions, any action
taken against them by the Vic. police must fail.
* • . *
Ticket-snatching at Melb. racecourses the
latest. There is a big crowd round Shemarbonstein
after the race. The expert leans over, snatches a ticket
from someone in front, and passes it to a mate, but does
not himself attempt to escape. Several of the crowd
have seen him snatch the “ brief,” and he is quickly
pointed out to and collared by his victim. Of course he
denies the snatching, and, if the other man is to be
bluffed, the sharp gets off. If, however, there is any
talk of police, he savs “ All right. Here’s your vermilion
ticket,” and hands it out. The other, who does not care
to be worried by police-court proceedings, and is only too
glad to get his ticket back, lets the sharp go, and waltzes
back to collect. When, however, he hands in his ticket,
Shemarbonstein says, “What’s your gory game? This
ticket is for the last race, not for this. Don’t come trying
to dazzle me,” &c. Before snatching the ticket, the
spieler has provided himself with a couple of tickets, on
past races, of the same bookmaker, and it is one of these
he hands back. While he is arguing the point with the
“ snatehee,” his pal has presented and collected on the
real ticket.
♦ * * *
Now that Premier Turner has laid the Totali-
zator Bill aside for yet another year, Ikey Mo will cease to
inspire religious protests on the subject. The other week,
whilst the fear of the Tote was in Melbourne Ikey’s heart,
a certain Joseph Nicholson led the attack in the local
’Erald. Joseph, who didn’t state whether he was a
parson,^addressed his letter from “Parsonage, Golden
Square," and showed a most unholy acquaintance with all
sorts of sporting literature antagonistic to the Tote. His
whole intellectual life seems to be devoted to the com-
piling of anti-Tote arguments from every kind of source,
therefore The Bulletin rises to ask whether Joe Nichol-
son (Parsonage, Golden Square) is Ikey Mo, or Ikey’s
spiritual adviser ?
* * * *
Fleet Admiral’s defeat in S.A. Derby (he ran
fourth in a field of five) seems to settle the Thunderbolt
colt’s chance of downing Aurum in the V.R.C. Derby,
which now looks a mere matter of going to the post for
W. R. Wilson’s colt. During the past couple of months
there have been many rumors of Fleet Admiral having
got a “ leg,” and he was often also absent from the train-
ing tracks, but this didn't stop the open-hearted bookies
from offering 5 to 1 about his chance for V.R.C. blue
riband. “ A tote, a tote—my kingdom for a tote ! ’’ At
present it is about several to 1 that F.A. will not start
at Flemington.
• * * *
The Findon Harriers race-meeting, at Caulfield,
last Saturday, was a brilliant example of business
management. Wealthy Albert Miller, who seems to have
run the show “on his own,” spared no efforts to make
both ends meet. For the Ladies’ Bracelet, presented by
the Master of the Hounds, a number of Govern-
ment ’Ouse names were starred on the bill, each
name being hitched to a horse from the Miller
stable. Thus Mrs. Freeman Thomas nominated Home-
spun ; Lady Brassey took Miss Gladstone; and
the Hon. Doroth}’ Brand had the use of Luster as her can-
didate. Also Lady Holled-Smith’s title was represented
by Iramoo. By way of working this sassiety patronage
for all it was worth, Mr. Albert Miller issued some 400 in-
vitations to afternoon-tea among non-members of the
Findon Harriers Hunt Club, which, considering that
these honored ones had to pay 10s. each admission to the
course before they could get their tea, was a highly pro-
fitable entertainment for the promoter.
* * * *
Though few horses from other provinces will
assist at the A.J.C. meeting, which begins at Randwick
to-day (Sat.), yet numerous entries promise the best of
sport. The principal weight-for age events will be pro-
bably “cut up” by Hopscotch, Coil and Amberite, and
the latter reads also as a certainty for the Derby, in which
Patriot and Clarion may prove his nearest attendants.
The Chief, True Blue, Aurea and Survivor should all run
well in the Epsom, and of this lot Aurea only has to give
her true form to be returned winner. Fucile, Valiant,
Delaware, Coil and Rebel Queen seem to possess excellent
winning chances in the Metrop. ; and, given a fast-run
race, Fucile should just about beat Coil at the weights and
win. In the minor handicaps Albicore and Fadladeen
will be worth bearing in mind, whilst Wat Tyler is another
customer that likes the Randwick course.
* * * *
The Queensland champion, Battalion, is ex-
pected by his admirers to perform even better at the
approaching A.J.C. spring meeting than he did at last
autumn one ; but, though the horse is very well, he will
find that Coil, True Blue, and Hopscotch are quite capable
of upholding the credit of N.S.W., to say nothing oLthe
much-improved three-year-old Amberite, who will this
season prove himself “one of the best.”
* * » *
Aurea (Abercorn —Aurelia) has so many times
left the punting public in the lurch that now that fickle
body are not taking* any of her for Epsom, with the pos-
sible result that she will take it into her head to try, and,
if such be the case, she should easily win the “ big mile ”
with but 7st. 121 b. up.
* * * •
“ Carbine Lyons and George Giffen are both
training for cricket. Giffen, by the way, expects to stand
down as a bowler this season, and intends to devote him-
self entirely to batting. A wise resolve.
» * * *
Why isn t Peel, the man who can bowl Jack
Lyons’ leg-stump whenever he likes, coming out with
Stoddart ? Probably because Peel, like Brown and
Richardson, has stuck out for a high figure. Stoddart
had to engage Richardson, whatever the figure, but pro-
bably he doesn’t consider the others indispensable. When
they were last in Australia the trio vowed that only big
money would tempt them again.
* * * *
The connection between cricket and British
government of India is decidedly humorous. Lord Harris,
who brought an All-England team to Australia, after-
wards became Governor of Bombay. Captain Wynvard
had to withdraw from Stoddart s eleven on being sum-
moned to resume duty as a military instructor, or some-
thing, at Calcutta. And Ranjitsinhji, talking the other
day to a London interviewer re the cancelling of his suc-
cession to one of the Indian native thrones, said : “My
people are very proud of me as a cricketer, and it is their
wish that, if at all possible, even if I get the Jamship, I
should continue my cricket connection with England.
But, whatever happens, I cannot endure this worry and
uncertainty. Already ft has detracted a good deal from
the quality of my criclcet. I cannot bestow upon it the
same attention that I used to do.” The loss of bis crown
is preying alas ! upon Ranji’s famous leg-stroke. He
goes in to bat with the sad conviction that the difference
between a “century” and a “duck” is of no political
import. Cut off from his expected Kingdom by unfor-
seen circumstances he cannot devote a calm mind to the
compilation of a first-class average. Moreover, the change
m his fortunes has affected his fielding. As a superseded
Jam, living upon the bounty of rich relations, he is no
longer a great catch.
*> ♦ * *
That slump in the cycle-trade isn’t likely to
get very serious as long as the bike is so handy for man
and maid to whiskaway together, “ far from the madding
crowd, ’ into such rural solitudes, for instance, as the
Rock Lily region. And—if the steel steed could only
speak! J
* * * «
On a recent Sunday The Bulletin counted, in
half-an-hour, 218 persons biking in Sydney Centennial
Park during church hours, besides about 120 lying beside
their machines in the sun ; and this horrified paper
hereby challenges the sainted Brunker either to carry out
his duty to that “higher power” by proposing the imme-
diate Sunday-closing of the Centennial, or to humbly
swallow that cheap brag about caring nothing for the
opinion of the public.
* * * *
The Chow sports in Sydney recall that among the
most graceful cyclists one sees off the stage are Chinese.
The unemotional “ John ” cycles quite unconcernedly, sits
well, pedals neatly, and is altogether a sight to gladden
the adoring mission-maiden—whereas the machine seems
to be a. veritable rack for nervous whites, even though
they affect enjoyment. .
**■ * *
During the names-on-bikes debate in Melb.
Uity Council G. D. Carter hazarded the generalisation that
nobody ever gave his real name, and instanced a friend
lately returned from Eng. This lively personage, it
seems, had been proposed and become a member of a
larky London club, run something after the lines of the
mixed-sex clubs popularised by Bland Holt’s melo-
dramas. But he did not give his own name—oh, dear, no
—he gave that of an eminent Melb. divine also at
Ome at the time, and the name of that pastor will stay on
the books of the club even unto the fourth generation.
At N.S.W. Wheelmen’s winter meeting the
had . a ,® ne da y- but the league didn’t-Gyrnkhana
attraction at the Agn. Ground, next door, took a bio-
slice out of the gate. The programme was intelligently
anda^agnmcenfe^waf J °’ ' Vas flrst ' e,ass *
Bilmartin. 1 1 " as P rovl ded by the irrepressible
grilling fivp m ®r o ery ma ? who, at the end of a
bis C rnan h land r 'lf' Pr ' ri^ e °^ h?ke,"vaul/the fence,'chase
o^the^publie'too^teif. pub * lc ' The lea *>'* has “ pointed -
picked K on?Hm L ? T Can,t say whefcher Bilmartin
true that man °f ot: but if he did - and if it is
-well »hv „n ? r fl ev l ral , ll , mes called him “a bastard"
we 1 u "tv- 01 earth should anybody be privileged to
SSprSf "" r " y h ' "W™
multi-cycle race was most ex-
citing The triplet, Clinton, Martin, and Fitzgerald tried
to shake off the plucky tandem, Hunt and Forhes, earlier
I t lt ra , ( » e an<l fa,le,i - T,l e last lap was a splendid go
and the Maoriland pair were beaten by only a few inches
straiuu'Ji 0f the tb f ee " liles - If the finish 3 had been in a
? t „ ra '7 bt they must have won. Outside running is a big
handicap in the last 50 yards.
T he powerful Green was beaten on his merits by
(W™J," the Ten Miles International Scratch Race.
Green lode with perfect generalship right through- rode
a meaner race than Megson, who did go to the front
feX [nehlTr m « ake , the pace Megson beat, Green by a
few inches in the final kicks, and rode himself clean out.
* * *
The opinion of an experienced amateur cvelist
fSRu in| ?„ t i! e , Frler J dl >' Societies’ new track (Melb.), is
that it will be slow, is badly planned, should have been
oblong in shape with banked ends, instead of being round
and banked all through, and will never become popular
on account of its inaccessibility. The latter point is very
disputable. Firework displays used to draw multitudes
to the same ground.
* * * *
Inglewood (Vic.) bicycle road-race, two
of the competitors and one of the pacers collided with a
herd of cows and smashed their machines, another com-
petitor ran into a cart and mutilated his front wheel, and
yet another one came across an unwary small boy and
broke the front hub of his machine. Not one of the
riders sustained injury.
* * * *
Vie. football season of ,( J7 closed on Saturday,
when Essendon beat Melb. and thereby won the premier-
™'ft The game was a very poor one, and, on the play,
Melb. should have won. As it was, the goal credited to
Essendon is asserted by all spectators to be no goal, as
the ball is said to have touched the post in passing.
.Though the winners led at the finish apart from these six
points, the Melbournes seemed to lose heart and fade away
especially as they had themselves hit the goal-posts three
tunes in trying to score.
Of the teams that battled for the supremacy of
the Vic. League, Geelong was undoubtedly most brilliant,
reckoning the play of the whole season, and how it is the
G’sare not premiers is inexplicable. Melbourne were an in
and-out team, tip-top one day, and the next rushing
about in the aimless manner of a junior organisation
Coihngwood and Essendon were the least brilliant, but
more dogged, and “ it’s dogged as does it.”
* * * *
Canon Berry, of the Melb. Anglican Church, is
the dead image of Fitzsimmons, the stoushing champion,
and many years ago, when Fitz was merely a humble
worker in the ring, the rev. gentleman was accosted in
Collms-street by a gaudy individual with a huge cigar and
diamonds. “ Blime, Bob!” he opened, “I know I ain’t
seen yer for a month or two, but I’m blowed if I ever
thought as ’ow you’d turn parson.”
* « * *
Editor Bulletin, —He your paragraph about
Mr. Dan Sheehy and the yacht Australian. For over
40 years I have been well known as the designer and
original owner of the Australian, of which I had sole con-
trol. My principal and much-esteemed assistant was
John Nieholls, lately deceased. Beyond building the
little vessel to order, Mr. Dan Sheehy had nothing to do
with her; the fixing of her dimensions, centre-
board or keel, ballast, mast, rudder, &c were all
in my own hands. For 40 years, I say, no one
has ever questioned what I now state. That any one
should say that the boat’s lines were taken “out of a
book” is simply marvellous, for no such book and no such
lines were ever printed. The little Madge Wildfire, built
for me to my design by Mr. William Underwood, was the
first approach to the Australian’s lines conceived by any
builder. Many attempts have been made to build a model
to beat the Australian, but no one ever succeeded
nothing of her size ever successfully competed with her
I may also mention that I couid not get any Sydney
builder to make a model to my order similar to the Aus-
tralian ; none of them would admit that the great spring
in her keel could be of any advantage. The reason why
Mr. Dan Sheehy, who was then unemployed, got the
order to build her was that I had taken great interest in
him, having bound him apprentice to Mr. Lawrence
Corcoran, to the kindness of whose wife he owes in no
small measure his advancement in life. The Australian
model was taken from the lines of a fish. The writer
caught a mackerel in Woolloomooloo Bay for the purpose
of obtaining correct lines—took it to his' residence in Vic-
toria-street, where, opening its mouth, he cut the fish in
two parts ; leaving the back, and laying the incised por-
tion on a sheet of paper, he took for his load water-lines
the horizontal lines of the fish, which were segments of a
circle—the garboard-streak corresponding with the load
water-lines and the midsection a right-angle floor —R
Harnett.
It is not often that wealthy and cautious parents,
> -° rtSnien themselves, favor the sporting proclivities
of their sons, as was the case with the recently-deceased
Ihomas Buckland and Captain Smith, both of Sydney.
Mr. Auckland was very proud of his son’s trotters, pic-
tures of which adorned the walls of his office; whilst
Captain Charles Smith watched with interest the doings
of the progeny of the successful sire Gozo, owned by his
son, proprietor of Tueka Tueka station.
• ♦ • •
The man-of-war’sman is only a polisher and
greaser nowadays—not a brawny hauler of tarred ropes.
At the Agricultural Ground, Sydney, on Saturday last,
the Irish Rifles beat the Orlando team in the tug-of-war,
with two straight pulls.


At the N.S.W. Wheelmen’s meet, Dunlop Tyres
won the ten miles scratch race, the paced race between
Martin and Reynolds, the multicycle handicap, and many
heats. Coleman and Mather, riding from Port Darwin to
Melbourne on Dunlop cycles and tyres, and Westwood
rims, have had but one puncture in 400 miles of the
roughest country in Australia.*
On Sept. 2, at Narrabri Bicycle Club Sports,
Dale won two firsts and Lovelee one first on Clevelands ;
and on Sept. '4, at Sydney Cricket Ground, Cleveland
score was—li Mile First-Class Hep,, A. C. Forbes Ist; 3
mile, second-class handicap, A. E. Knight Ist; Multicycle
Hep., 2nd and 3rd Cleveland tandems; 10 miles scratch,
Forbes 3rd ; August Hep., J. Brady 2nd.*
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion —a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depot for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
The Goldsmiths’and Silversmiths’Alliance,
90 King-street, Sydney, only started business a
year ago, and have already had to make extensive
additions to their fine shop, which is now more
than ever a poem in jewellery and an Art Gallery
of precious movables. Promenaders are cordially
invited to visit the exhibition, where everything is
sold at London prices.*
Thirty pages have been cut out of Dickens
“ Sketches by Boz” in Darlinghurst (Sydney)
gaol-library as unfit for prisoners to read. The
gaol authorities have also deleted from “Bells
Elocutionist” that well-known poem “The
Felon.” The Bulletin suggests that someM’sP.
of horse-sense and literary leanings be appointed
a committee (unpaid) to publicly report on the
bowdlerisation of English classics as practised in
Botany Bay quod.
The Eye-sight measure per post by the in
ventors, Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough, the
well-known opticians of George-st., Sydney, enables
eye-sufferers in the country to ascertain the data
necessary for obtaining proper spectacles. The
subtler forms of sight-defect cannot, of course, be
measured by the instrument, but it is thoroughly
effective for the more usual forms of eye affection
long sight, short sight, old sight. Full particulars
from Messrs. Greenfield and Barraclough.*
the person >vho is not a millionaire, there are
■ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE ( ItliSC EXT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other
•» isi|. s > King-street Collee Enlace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Mould you [ike to be Taller?
If so, send for particulars of
PATENT INVISIBLE ELEVATORS,
which increase the height without fear of detection, and
are thoroughly comfortable. Raise 1, 2, 3, or 4 inches ;
worn in ordinary boots or shoes.
H. JOHNSON & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS, 472 Gbobob Stiibbt, SYDNEY.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
OYER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
<SR€VILL€
BKYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4gin.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New JEIS Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(SrcVille TCirocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
TUe ACME.
Sole Agent: J. M. Maud,
515 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. _
Importer of Sundries, Repairs a Speciality.
" Missing Friends.
EORGE SALISBURY, left London Twenty-
second September, 1885, by s.s. Quetta for
Townsville, as Doctor’s Assistant and Dispenser.
Last heard of in Sydney in 1888.
Any information respecting abovenamed will oe
of value to, and gratefully acknowledged by,
J. J. KINGSBURY,
Town Hall, Brisbane,
Queensland.
_ _ THE new - -
Herald Bicyck
For LADIES and GENTS.
-EMBODIES elegance, grace and ® il ?P ll ?'^'j re d h by the
E fitted with a chain which can be repaired dj
rider in a few minutes without the use toe
Hubs and Bearings are on anew P l . , " < ?' IJ I e h ’ • 'laees when
dirt, run easier, and the ba Is Adj ustable Handle-
the bearing is removed. The HiCKory J n vv hich,
bars are a treat SADDLE. matermieb
The li)t€rcbaO««ble
curable, . r-o^i
price ,
Three are my ..lection on merit iron, a hundred En B l.sh
J£f w * nted » w * l, ~
For Terms and Discounts, apply fc ° _ v
FRANK GRIMLEY,
afe 265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
263 & 205 OT-A. haji [Mention Tub bulletin.]
“ DOWRIDGE’S
as USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Tl)s PCiblic Schools
Sports Carpi Val.
NINTH ANNUAL
SYDINTEY CRICKET GROUND.
Friday, 17th, anTSatordayTSth September.
THE SMARTEST AND BEST-MANAGED SHOW OF THE YEAR.
H. N. SOUTHWELL \
T. C. CHANDLER /
Hon.
Secs.
SHAKE the bottle !
HUNTER’S KURANDA
Paw-Paw Fruit Sauce
PURITY.
THERE IS NO
ANIMAL MATTER
WHATEVER
IN
THIS
NEW SAUCE,
IT BEING
A PURELY FRUIT
AND
VEGETABLE
CONDIMENT.
HSHi
PAPAIN.
THIS
MOST VALUABLE
DIGESTIVE
FERMENT
IS
THE EXTRACT
OF THE
PAW-PAW FRUIT
JUICE
(TROPICAL).
See British Pharmacopia.
Tills New Sauce
IS MADE ONLY FROM THE
so famous in Tropical Districts, and Flavored with the best
SLICES & TROPICAL BRUITS.
Extract from Chambers’s Encyclopedia, 1895 Edition.
“Papain is a Nitrogenous body isolated from the juice of the tropical Paw-Paw.
The juice has for a long time been used in the West Indies for making meat tender,
but it has only recently been shown that Papain possesses, like Pepsin and Trypsin, the
power of digesting meat fibre, and this digestion will go on in an alkaline, a neutral, or an
acid solution Hence it belongs to the group of Digestive Ferments, and, like them, is
employed in cases of Dyspepsia, or for the predigestion of food.”
MANUFAC'iLuiit. ONLY AT
Hooter’s Stearo PreServiog Works,
Cairns, North Queensland.
SYDNEY DEPOT
484 KENT STREET.
Established 1883. Telephone 1920.
Those about to SELECT a BICYCLE should
Call and See the
‘Pbiz’Noj Cycles-
No matter how much you pay, it is impossible
to obtain a more perfect Wheel than the
“Phiz” at £22 lOs.
Bicycles, Tricycles, and Tandems
BUILT TO ORDER.
The “Phiz” No. 2, at .£l2 10s. The most
wonderful value ever offered to the world of wheels.
EVERY BICYCLE GUARANTEED.
“ Phiz ” Cycle Works,
Next Town Hall, Druitt St., Sydney.
8-HOUR-8
sports progruiqiqe.
THE FOLLOWING
Progranjipc of Sports
Has been drawn up in connection
with the
Eight - Hour Demonstration,
TO BE HELD ON THE
ROSEHILL RACECOURSE
—ON —
tyoQday, October 4,
1897.
APPRENTICES’ HANDICAP, 125yds.,—First
prize, trophy, value, £5 ss. ; second, trophy,
value £3 35.; third, trophy, £1 Is. Entrance Is.
PROFESSIONALS AND NOVICES’ HANDI-
CAP, 150yds.—First prize £lO, second prize £3,
third prize £2. Entrance 2s.
SACK RACE, 125yds.—Handicap. A 1 boomers.
First prize £1 10s., second prize 15s. Entrance
EIGHT-HOUR WHEEL RACE, 2 miles.—For
members of the League of Wheelmen. First
prize £lO, second prize £5, third prize £2. En-
trance Is. 6d. _ ~
THREE-LEGGED RACE, 100yds.—For all-
comers. Competitors to draw for partners.
First prize £2, second prize £l. Entrance Is.
WALKING MATCH HANDICAP, 2 miles -
All-comers. First prize £6, second prize
third prize £l. Entrance, 2s.
BICYCLE RACE, 1 mile. —For members of the
League of Wheelmen. First prize £lO, second
nrize £5, third prize £2. Entrance, Is. bd.
BUCKET OF WATER RACE, 125yds.—All-
comers. First prize £2, second prize £l. Kn-
OBSTAbLE RACE, 1-mile.— Handicap. All-
comers. First prize £6, second prize £3, third
prize £l. Entrance, Is. -p,, ,
NOVELTY RACE, |-mile.—All-comers. First
prize £3, second prize £llos., third prize £l.
ALL-COMERS’ HANDICAP, 1 miie.-First
prize £B, second prize £3, third prize £2. Kn-
HURDLE RACE, handicap, 200yds., over six
flights.—First prize £5, second prize £3, third
prize £l. Entrance, 2s. '' n ...
CARRY- YOUR-CHUM RACE, 100yds.-All-
comers. First prize £4, second prize £2. Each
competitor to carry his chum 50yds. En-
COMLCkL COSTUME BICYCLE RACE, 1
1 mile.—First prize £5, second prize £3, third
prize £l. See conditions. Roadster machines.
r> uiyii I'p' RACE for MEMBERS OI
trSes-unions and apprentices
(on Roadster machines).—hirst prize, tacHJhy
value £5 ; second prize, trophy value £3 ; third
prize, trophy value £l. Entrance, Is.
ENTRY FORMS, with full conditions thereon,
may be obtained on application at the IKADB&
HALL, Sydney, or will be posted on receipt of a
stamped-addressed envelope. q at| n> nA V
ENTRIES will be received until SA i U Kua x ,
SEPTEMBER 11, until 10 p.m. ,
HANDICAPS will be declared in the Referee
on SEPTEMBER 15. . . ,
NOMINATIONS to be accompanied by the
full fee, otherwise they will not be accepted.
Further particulars may be obtained from the
undersigned at the TRADES’ HALL DAILY,
and on SATURDAY NIGHT, from 8 to 9 p.m.
Trades’Hall, Sydney. THOS. W. lURSE,
Telephone, 1505. Secretary.
NOT
urn- - riTO
INDIGESTION
ONLY RELIEVED BUT
PERMANENTLY BY
CURED
Mr. ARTHUR MALCOLM,
. SPECIALIST .
169 Grafton Street, WOOLLAHRA.
Read what the Sydney stationmaster says
“Dear Sir,— I have tried your remedy for in-
digestion, and am pleased to tell you that I
experienced great benefit from it. After taking a
little more than half the quantity you prescribed,
I found myself so much relieved that I did not
require to continue it. You are at liberty to
make use of this testimonial. —Yours sincerely,
Arthur Willis.”
The opinion of Platform-Inspector Edwards,
Redfern railway station, is given as follows :
“ For a considerable time I suffered from indi-
gestion, and taking advantage of your cure being
available, I followed out your instructions with
most satisfactory results. I strongly recommend
your cure, and you are at liberty to publish the
above facts.”
“More wonderful still, I feel as if I cannot
thank you enough for the renewed health and
strength I have experienced since I began to take
your Dyspepsia Remedy. I begin to feel a plea-
sure in" life after upwards of aix years’ misery. I
have tried all means of getting better, and spent
all my money on doctors and medicine; and, o
shorten a long story, I may state that I have been
under the care and attention of nearly a dozen
skilled and professional men, and now, having had
my constitution nearly destroyed, I can say that
since being under your care I am improving daily
in health and strength, and can now enjoy my
food and am gaining weight every day. 1 hank-
fully yours, John Burrows, Gate-house, John-st.,
Newtown.”
(J. Burrows is an old railway employe known
all over N.S.W.).
The above speaks for itself, and Mr. Malcolm
is prepared to give advice Free of Charge, either
personally or by letter. Remedies foi warded to
any part of the Colonies.
Bondingee : A recent Bulletin par. referred
to the adoption of punting by Rugby footballers to the
almost entire exclusion of drop-kioking, and said that
punting was quicker and surer. Now, as an old player of
the Australian game, it always seemed to me, in watching
Rugby matches, that too little attention was paid to kick-
ing, and especially drop-kicking. Rugby footballers,
even the English team which visited here in 89 or 90,
were execrable kicks compared to any average team of
Australian footballers, and when the smaller size of the
Rugby playing-space is considered, it certainly would
seem as if the sure, straight, 60-3'ard kicks ot a man like
Thurgood .(late of Essendon) would be invaluable on a
Rugby back line.
* * * *
Argus on the shooting for the Queen’s Prize
“ Nothing probably could indicate greater self-command
and power of concentration than the feat accomplished
by the two competitors, who, under the eye of Royalty
itself (the Duke of York and Duke of Ccnnaught were in
the forefront of the onlookers) . . . could hold their rifles
so true that the bullet went straight to a black dot on the
centre of the target.” The amazement of the Argus is
characteristic—the paper naturally expects every man in
the presence of Royalty to fall in a cold sweat and fearful
shiver. The Argus’ knees begin to knock at the very
mention of Royalty.
* * * *
The exhibition game of billiards played by
Memmott and Weiss, in Sydney last week, was splendidly
contested, as at the start of play on the last day the
points stood—Weiss, 6666 ; Memmott, 6663. Weiss almost
immediately ran up a break of 358, the highest spot-
barred break ever made in Australia, and eventually won
by 251 points.
* * * *
Apropos Indian disturbances. Seven large
steamships, ranging up to 5000 tons gross register, will
reach Sydney between now and October, commissioned to
convey remount “ walers ” to Indian.
* * * *
A Charters Towers boniface, weighing close on
19st., rides a bike (made to order). He had a bad spill
the other day, and an enterprising selector at once pegged
out the site, feeling confident that as soon as rain comes a
permanent water-hole will be established there.
Megson on his Beeston-Humber won the N.S.W.
Wheelmen's 10 -mile international scratch race last
Saturday. • ■ „
» * * *
Ex-Chief-Inspector Tunbridge, late of Scot-
land Yard, London, who has been appointed
Maoriland Chief Commissioner of Police, is to get
,£550 a year, rising to £B5O. He retired from Scot-
land Yard, two years ago, on full pension (.£450),
so has a thousand a year to start on. It was he
who secured the conviction of Dr. Neil Cream,
who varied Jack the Ripper’s procedure by poison-
ing his fallen victims. Tunbridge is looked upon
in London as one of the cleverest detectives of the
century.
“ Where the Dead Men Lie and Other
Poems” is the title of Barcroft Boake’s book,
which has just been published in a very attractive
form by Angus and Robertson, with six portraits
and 32 illustrations by Mahony, Lambert, and
Pischer—some of which are little gems of art. In
addition there is a lengthy memoir of the lamented
poet by A. G-. Stephens. All Boake’s best Bul-
letin poems are included, amongst them the
famous title-piece; “Skeeta,” perhaps the most
popular of all; “ Devlin’s Siding,” and “Down the
River,” two of the strongest pieces in Australian
verse; besides several hitherto unprinted. The
book will be forwarded post-free from Bulletin
office for ss. sd. in stamps or postal notes of any
province.


In the...
Rain Storm
the man got very wet. The wetting
gave him a cold. The cold, neglected,
developed to a cough. The cough
sent him to a bed of sickness. A dose
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, taken at
the start, would have nipped the cold
in the bud and saved the sickness,
suffering, and expense. The house
hold remedy for colds, coughs, and all
lung troubles, is
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
3Dr. J. O. Ayer Sc Co.,
LOWELL, mass., u. s. a.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name —Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral— is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
v.
FOR SAW-GULLETING, PLANER-KNIFI
SHARPENING, General TOOL GRINDING.
The Tanite Co.’s
EMERY : WHEELS
ARE STILL PRE-EMINENT,
despite the close imitations and keen competition.
The Tanite Co.’s Machines also are still
in the front as RELIABLE TOOLS for all
classes of Foundry and Machine Work.
Sole Agents in Australia:
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
EKTGUKTEBRS,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
435 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE:
315 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
DrGokeooeSS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy and Alcoholism (in any
form, CURED by EUCRASY. Can be given secretly
or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food,
its presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It operates
so quietly and with such certainty that the patient under-
goes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete
reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it does
not impair or injure the health in any way.
Drunkenness is a Disease,
and EUCRASY is a safe, sure, and speedy Antidote.
Write for book of particulars and testimonials'from living
witnesses—sent post free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
Eucrasy Go., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
Students Em-oiiedT - infirmary open
Daily, 9 to 4; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Returned Australians unanimously remark
the wide gulf between rich and poor in England.
Then look, they say, at the allegedly “liberal”
statesmen. Rosebery owns half-a-dozen “castles”
m England and Scotland ; Labouchere, the Radi-
cal leader, has a superb mansion opposite the
House of Lords, and is famous for his luxurious
dinners ; and Judas Chamberlain, the millionaire,
spends thousands on orchids. Harcourt has a
big fortune ; and Asquith’s wife is one of the
eaders of the innermost set.
A pathetic Auckland (M.L.) newspaper
obituary:—
IN MEMORIAM.
• .—ln loving memory of John ,
who died at , on April, 1894 ; aged 27
years.
Just three long years have passed away
Since my poor Johnnie was laid in the clay.
He was a dear and obedient son
Until the dark hours of tire gumfields come.
He was coaxed away from his mother’s care
By those whom he thought loved him so dear.
Day by day and night by night I am looking for that
shining light,
With outstretched arms and his face so bright,
To show his poor mother across the river.
Oh, Johnnie dear ! oh, Johnnie dear !
You must not think you are forgotten ;
For your poor mother's heartstrings are almost broken.
The Lord's will be done.
Inserted by his broken-hearted mother.
That enterprising young firm of railway
contractors, Smith, Tinibs, and Einlayson, who
took the last three N.S. W. railway contracts, have
now secured the last two let in Westralia —the'
line from Kalgoorlie to Menzies (81 miles,
■£1.87,851) and from York to Greenhills (14 miles,
■£32,879). They received their training under the
Millar Bros., and one of their first jobs was the
line to Cobar. The mileage price to Menzies is
over three times that for which the Coolgardie line
was built, while the cost should not be much
heavier. But the difference in amount of con-
tractors’ freight will be enormous. But for the
Hannan's boom, coincident with the building of
the Coolgardie line, the price would have been ab-
solutely ruinous. Now the boom is over and the
freight harvest is ended, the making of Westra-
lian railways at ordinary prices has been resumed.
£ 2O will obtain for an inventor, in any of the '
Australian colonies, a Certificate of Provisional
Protection in Great Britain and the whole seven
colonies of Australasia. £2l will register a
Trade Mark in the whole of the Australasian
colonies. Arthur Griffith (M.L. A.), Patent Agent,
41 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Premier Turner thinks of beginning the
Chainberlain-proposed Anglo-Australian military-
exchange business with the despatch of 50 "Vic.
artillery-men to England. But, if anything
British comes to Sydney or Melbourne, it will be
a battalion at the least—not such a miserable
half-company as would be a numerical equivalent
to Turner’s pocketful of warriors. How Australia
is regimentally to reciprocate, though, is an-
other story. The partially-paid men couldn’t, of
course, give up their civil employment ; and The;
Bulletin fears that Young Australia’s appraise-
ment of his permanent military services would be
modelled too much upon the remuneration of the
Soudan Contingent—five bob a-day, and every-
thing found, from beer and bacca to toothpicks
and opoponax.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
Montserrat
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
» Sauce. <•
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE.
t.ime-Frdit
Juice, it is
found, forms
fa most conveni-
ent basis for
Sauce, ana we
invite a trial. It
has been pro-
nounced by connois-
seurs to be the Best
7 Sauce before the
Public. It is also half
the price of first-class
Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery , writes
so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy l
dare not write how good a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships waste it
in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN
ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard
& Co., Elliott Bros., Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.,
D. Cohen & Co., & The Australian Drug Co,
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
A^‘L Be christen ing N.s.w. “Pomona.”
40 years , ago aTI immigrant ship of that
name was wreclced on the Australian coast.
names 1 ° na 1S genenvlly classed among- unlucky
The statue of Daniel O’Connell which used
to stand in front of St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Melb.,
has been moved to one side. It was hardly good
taste to place a monument to the Liberator in
front of one to the Almighty.
Coowl
Easy to Make—Easy to Digest and of Exquisite Flavour
Strengthening, Refreshing and most economical in use.
joints it can npuT P l, L lB ° f , umquo construction, cambered and secured bv screws at all
■ • - an never ? hcink > crack, or sag in any climate, and thus the I*iano will not lose tone.
Wrist pins aro extra
long and plated. All
bass wires copper
oovered. Tho clavia-
turo (keyboard) is of
new pattern and nccu-
ratb workmanship.
Wires aro two sizes
thicker than are ordi-
narily used, henco
security against break-
ing, and a fuller tone.
BEALE & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
PIANOS
AT LESS THAN BERLIN PRICES.S
Hammer-shanks ol
acmena wood, with a
quality of whalebone.
Com pass, seven octaves.
Frame of homogeneous
iron, and of exceptional
strength. The photos
show the exterior. The
Hapsburg Pianos can
bo nad in walnut or
ebony, with or without
gold engraving, with
re s r Mnsnp nCl Th?', ] mw U .l and pati Ti, Renaissance candelabra. Tho touch "i. easyT elastic, and
in the middle ml!! P oBB ® BB ®*. a volumo in tbo bass ; * rich, round, singing quality
sustain!™ an), c s' np f 3 ■ ond “clear, bell-like sweetness in tho treble. Singers find the timbre
fright to nort d of Ve i°n P t™ g -° th ° VOICC - aY® tuk V' ak o£ ™ transit. Tho price include,
chafers will P ho and duty. Testimonials from thousands of actual pur-
oolonies fh ,A„ submitted, includmg eminent musicians of world-wido celebrity, Governors ol
b churches, schools, convents, and public institutions. BEALE & CO. LTD., 484 George
Street, Sydney, and throughout New South Wales. * *
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
> THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2 - each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agrents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and UVERPOOI, STREETS, STDNEV,
12-
TiOOK OF NATURE
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Balzac’s Droll Storiks, complete edition, thirty
highly-spiced tales, post free 2s 6d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free, 1/6.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post, Is 3d.
Piping Hot, Nana, Dream of Love, and all Zola’s
Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free, 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, post free, is 3d.
komance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price, Is
3d ; post free. Rabrlais, complete, 2s. 6d., post free.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. w. Reynolds,
2s ; post, 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant - Bradlaugh prose-
cuted book, Is ; by post, Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, anS As it Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is; by post, Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Sexual Physiology for the Young, by Dr. Foote,
illustrated, post free 3s.
Maria Monk, Is 6d; post, Is 9d.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d,
posted. My Uncle Barbassou s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Short Stories of Love and Frol>c, posted Is 3d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, l>y Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Mysteries of the court of Napoleon 111., illus-
trated, post free 2s.
Haris Sketches, by Nordau, illustrated, post free 2s.
Story without a Moral, posted 2s.
Works in French: I/Assassinat ; Le Bonnet
Vert ; Andre Chenier ; Is 6d each post free, or 3 for 4s.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s, post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d, post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ii'JT all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free, Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price. Is. '
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price, Is ; post, Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information.
Post free, Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is, post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cb.eap Hook Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food r*
INFANTS
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
DrugCo,, Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORG E STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tlje ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.;
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Hetr Rassmussbn. —Dear
Sir,—l think it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LTJCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R*ssmussen,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
Dear sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. k UTTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. ceker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street, Melbourne.
Mr. Burr >n writes later: - “The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies."
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
m>' after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
-Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussbn. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), 95 Castic
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
4 .
m
k
mk
\:W-
-m
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALI A.ND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL. Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr kasmdssen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on mv complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, kptjvtn
Important.
advice
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
Jfc gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing:. Dear sir, 1 shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMiTH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility, Costiveness, and Liver
Doym ivl nint P.iiVPrl
Arcadia, September 28rd, 1896.
To Here Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir, - Having for some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using youi
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards. X have the honor to be, .yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Florrie Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows: —
345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9/3/97.
Dear Sir,—lt gives me great pleasure to inform you that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found my
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, and which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
Parkea Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years' standing. I shall always he glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Your*
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August, 1894.
Dear Sir,—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9,1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE
REMEDIES
SSsseS
anM
I AWARDED,
TWO GOLD
ALFA LINE PILLS,
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD s* NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., arid 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure —Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency,
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt— This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current, and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
„ 2 „ 425.
~ 3 „ 635.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hips
when ordering one.
SEND FOR
FREE BOOK.
H |. rr RASSMUSSEN will Post his Valuable Book,
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Information for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS-MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Danish Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HERtt RAsSMUSSEN'S
bEM DIES can only he obtained from his own Offices
and Branches, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will be given FREE at HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN,
whether you send to his lb ad Office or ‘ ranches.
Herr
Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
547 George Street, Sydney.
Intercolonial
Branches :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Adelaide —154 Rundle Street.
Charters Towers—Royal Arcade.
N.Z. —91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal Theatre.
Coolgardie—Near Freemasons’ Hotel, Bailey-street.
Kalgoorlie—-No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


Medical.
RHEUMATISM
and SCIATICA.
Mr. Arthur Malcolm,
Rheumatic Expert,
169 GRAFTON STREET, WOOLLAHRA.
AFTER many years’ experience in all forms of
this terrible complaint, the treatment pur-
sued by Mr. Malcolm still continues to give the
same marvellous results.
On May 7th of this year- that well-known gentle-
man, Mr. Richard Skinner, of Baradine, certifies :
‘ l l or eighteen (18) months I suffered indescrib-
able agonies from Rheumatism in the feet. I tried
doctors, specialists, and hospital treatment, which
cost me over a hundred and twenty pounds (£120).
By pure accident I met you, and you may justly be
proud of performing such a cure. I have now been
well 13 months, and I wish this to be made known
for the sake of unfortunate sufferers who may then
adopt your treatment, which experience tells me
is their only chance.”
Writing from Brighton, Victoria, Mr. John
Bruce, an old and well-known identity, states :
11 1 was confined to bed and could not move with
Sciatica, tried several remedies without effect,
and, hearing of you, I placed myself under your
treatment, with the result that I was able to get
out of bed in a few days, and am now able to beat
work as usual. I would be most happy to recom-
mend your treatment to anyone suffering as I
have done.”
. Where the case is chronic and special attention
is necessary, full particulars must be submitted.
In such instances the charge for a course of
treatment is three guineas (£3 35.).
Note where Indigestion is present it must be
particularly stated.
The treatment prescribed by Mr. Malcolm has
never yet been approached, and it is in the most
severe forms of the complaint that his success is
greatest. Furthermore, patients can be as well
treated in their own homes by postal instructions
as by personal interview.
Address letters plainly as above. Advice free.
Medicines sent to any part of the Colonies.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
ffieTham's
irJfe
o
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/Is, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON,
ELLIOTT
GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne;
BROS., Sydney. ■ 1
T b€ Leadiog Pipe
GBD
Wholesale Dep6t:
Julius Goldschmidt & Co.,
231 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS
SIAMESE PIPE.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
M'GEE’S Hollow-Ground RAZORS.
THISTLE Bit AND, 3 sizes ... 10/-and 12 6 Each
KRAMM BRAND 6'-, 6 6, 8,6, and 10 6
KROPP BRAND ...6,6 and 7/6
BENGALL BRAND, best quality, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6.10 6 ’
Other GOOD BRANDS, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, and 5/- upwards.
PURCHASERS of any of these Razors can rely upon
getting an article with a Good Edge on it, as every
razor is SET and TESTED in my Saioon before it is sent
out. POST FREE throughout the Colonies from
ANDREW M‘GEE, Hairdresser, &c.,
5 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/fe each.
. PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, 5/e, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per 02.
we are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzell,
110 William Street,
comer of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Price List
Prompt attention given to Country Orders,
“ Tales of the
Convict System.”
Influenza Again.
HINTS HOW TO FACE THE EPIDEMIC.
The people of this country have good cause to
view with alarm an outbreak of influenza, as it
leaves behind it more shattered constitutions than
any other known disease. Mr. Edward Botting,
for ten years a councillor in the united township
of Bedford, Olpen, and Palmerston, in Frontenac
County, is one who nearly fell a victim to this
scourge. To a Whig correspondent Mr. Botting
said : —“ About two years ago I had a bad attack
of influenza, and the after effects of this malignant
trouble brought me so low that my friends des-
paired of my recovery. I was troubled with
severe and constant pain in the back, sensations of
extreme dizziness, weakness, arid was, in fact, in a
generally used-up condition. I had read fre-
quently of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and felt they
must have some special virtue else they could not
obtain such strong endorsement in all parts of the
country. I determined to try them, and I bless
the day that I came to that conclusion. Before
the first box was finished I felt benefited, and I
continued their use until I was as strong as ever.
I consider Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills the best medi-
cine sold, and I would not be without them in the
house if they cost me 6dol. a box.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have had marvellous
success in removing the after effects of influenza
and restoring sufferers to their former vigor. No
other medicine can accomplish the results they
achieve, and those who have suffered from in-
fluenza should use them without delay.*
Amusements.
BRISBANE!
Saturday Shilling Concerts.
WANTED ARTISTS. Lady and Gentleman VOCAL-
ISTS of acknowledged position in Melbourne or
Sydney. Return fare and fee, with opportunity of other
concerts. Letters with full particulars to
WALTER BENTLEY,
Treasury Chambers, Brisbane.
pALACE THEATH E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Managing Director—Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Most Popular Entertainment in Australia,
The Biograph Vaudeville Co.
The Very Latest and Most Marvellous Invention.
The Biograph. Lillian Tree. Fannie Wentworth.
Prof. Chas. Morritt. Lillian Morritt. Arthur Sherwin.
Thos. Bergin. Fanny Liddiard.
Prices 35., 25., & Is. Plan at Paling & Co., George-st.
Matinee Performances, Wednesday and Saturday, at 3.
TIYV L 1 „ T HEA T R E, SYDNEY.
“ Sole Lessee & Man. Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Continued Brilliant Success oe
8 - Tl>s SclbiQi Fan?ily - 8
COLLINS and ATHAS. FRANK LEON.
THE 5 PICCANINNIES. THE ALLISONS.
Supported by the Entire Strength of Our Great
DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
Prices—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling & Co.
Matinee Performances every Saturday, at 3 p.m.
tJIHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Managing Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MAGNIFICENT RECEPTION NIUHTLY of
The HAYTOKS- The 3 AVALOS-
WILL WHITBURN. NELLIE SHELDON ’
and the Whole Strength of our Double Company
Pnces-2s fid, 2s, Is, & fid. Plan at Allen’s, Collins street.
Matinee Peiformances every Wednesday at 2.30 p.m.
"P RIN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
* Under the Direction of
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
Brilliant and Conspicuous Success.
The Bright, Sparkling, Novel and most Laughable Farcical
Comedy, by W. Gillette, Esq.,
“ Too M6cb JoboSoo*
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
D.ty sales at Bentwitch’s and Princess’s Theatre Cafe.
JJTJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) AND EVERY EVENING
FRANK: THORNTON
■—AS—
TH€ BOOKMAKER.
Everybody should see this Laughter - Provoking Knight
of the Pencil.
Manager ... l. J. LOHR.
JJ
REAr German Hollow Ground
jIOPP
° WARRANTED
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & Co. t LONDON
Amusements.
SEPTEMBER 13th to 25th—DAY & NIGHT.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
DIAMOND JUBILEE
—CHARITY CARNIVAL=z
Patrons : His Excellency the Governor and Viscountess
Hampden. President : His Worship the Mayor.
President, Ladies’ Committee : The Lady Mayoress.
Hon. Treas. : Messrs. R. B. Cropley, J.P.; J. Roseby,
J.P.; J. Sidney, and S. J. Law, Chairman.
Doll Show:
A Long List of Valuable Prizes.
Juvenile Exhibition:
Medals and Certificates (for Mechanical,
Educational, and Fancy Work).
Photographic Exhibition:
Numerous Prizes. (Prize Schedules for
the above are now ready).
Continental Market & Jumble Fair:
Managed by the Ladies of Sydney.
Industrial Exhibition.
The Up-to-Date Museum. The Egyptian Hall.
The Varieties. The Blind at Work.
The Aboriginals at Work.
Gentlemen’s Smoke Room. Ladies’ Tea Room.
The most stupendous undertaking every attempted
in New South Wales. Every available part of the
building has been engaged.
A Plethora of Amusements!
. . Change of Programme Nightly! . .
rAZ’X.ZZJ"’ ls 7 ««*-. 6d.
No extra charge for Concerts, Novel Side Shows, eto.
A. STAINES MANDERS, Manager.
SHERWIN.
Amy Sherwin ! Amy Sherwin !
THE AUSTRALIAN NIGHTINGALE.
CONCERT TOURof AUSTRALASIA,
supported by
BARTON McGUCKIN
(The Celebrated English Tenor),
ARTHUR DEANE
(The Well-known Baritone), and
M. SZCZEPANOWSKI
(Pianist and Conductor).
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
OPENING CONCERT, SEPTEMBER 25.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
Opening Concert - - - October 2.
L. G. SHARPE, Manager.
TTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ “ Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
The Musical Comedy,
“Tbc Frsocb Maid.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
gALON CINEMATOGRAPH E,
237 Pitt-street, nearly opposite Lyceum, Sydney.
THE NEW ANIMATED PICTURES FROM EUROPE
A SENSATION.
The Charge of the Turkish Cavalry.
The French Artillery.
The War in Cuba.
The Floral Carnival at Nice, &c., &c.
TO-DAY, from 11.30 Onward.
. J. MAC MAHON.
fJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
TRILBY : BURLESQUE.
Interpreted by
MAGGIE MOORE. Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
SATURDAY NEXT, September 11th, will be staged the
Evergreen “STRUCK OIL.”
Popular Prices—3s, 2s. Is. Early Door 6d. extra.
Business Manager, PERCY WARD.
IHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS ! Mr.
GEO Ft CAE RIGNOLD
And his Specially - selected DRAMATIC COMPANY
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
SATURDAY Evening, 11th Sept., grand production of
Geo. R. Sims’s Jubilee Play, “IN THE RANKS.”
Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, 6d. Early doors to stalls, family
circle and gallery, 6d. extra. Box ‘plan at Allan’s. Da'y
sales at Bentwitch’s. M MARCUS, Acting Manager.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
iT stories), Is. 3d.
LAT€ST NOV€LTy BROOCH,
Manufactured to Our Special Order.
CosliSl) Hall-Marked Gold,
Twisted Bar, with Bow, Pearl Set Swallow, Octagon
Shape Amethyst, and hanging Bead Pendant.
Unapproachabie Value -
£1 Post Free.
New (Sold Scroll Bar Broocb:
Plain, Extra Strong, 7/6.
With any Name or Motto, 1/- extra.
Wild Soar’s Tusk Srooches and Sinks.
real ivory, quite new, novel, and unique.
Silver Mounted
Gold
Broocb^S.
LiOks-
-4/6 each.
.. 13/6 „
Silver Mounted 4/6 pair
Gold „ 13/6
Post Free.
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers ,
z__ 90 king street. Sydney.
Y Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.,
can be COMPLETELY CURED by
MR. C. F. PARKER,
145 Victoria Parade, Fitzroy, Melbourne
Extract from sworn affidavits
declared before a Justice of Peace:—
Mrs. Marks, Devonshire Anns Hotel, Fitzroy-
street, near Cyclorama, aged 73 years, after being
a cripple, having all the joints stiffened, and
suffering agony over 11 months, pronounced in-
curable, failing to obtain any relief from others,
was completely cured by me'ls months ago, and
has kept in better health since.
Harry Sanderson, 493 Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy,
was cured by me over 12 months ago, when all his
joints were swollen and in acute pain, in a few
weeks.
Mrs. Nioholle, near corner of Nicholson and
Victoria streets, East Brunswick, aged 72 years,
after suffering 10 years with rheumatism in every
joint, failing to obtain relief from other remedies,
and had been pronounced incurable by five doc-
tors, was completely cured by me in two' months.
Acknowledgments.
Dear Sir, —I wish to testify to the cure you
have effected in my case, being a sufferer from
severe attacks of Lumbago ana double Sciatica,
which incapacitated me from all work at intervals
during' the past three years. I tried doctors,
electric baths, patent medicines, etc., without
deriving any benefit therefrom. In August, 1896,
I was very bad, suffering excruciating agony. I
consulted you, and obtained relief from the first
supply of your antidote, and am thankful to say
after five supplies I was cured. I have kept well,
it being now over six months since I saw you last.
—Heleg Exstrom, McCracken’s City Brewery
South Melbourne, 26th July, 1897.”
Dear Sir, —I wish to thank you most sincerely
for having cured me of Sciatica, having suffered
most acute pain for a long time, but, under your
Remedy, I am glad to say that I have completely
recovered. It is now 17 months since I saw you,
and I have not had the slightest return of the
pain—one week’s treatment having quite cured
me. If reference to me will assist any sufferer to
try your antidote, I shall be glad at any time to
tell them what it has done for me.—Yours grate-
fully, Mrs. T. Hughes, 29 Stirling Street, Kew,
19th August, 1897.”
“ Dear Sir,—ln grateful testimony to your skill
for having cured me of a very painful attack of
Rheumatism. I suffered great pain, having the
joints swollen. After a short while under your
treatment, I completely recovered. It is now over
three years ago since I was cured, and I have kept
well, being 64 years of age. I consider your anti-
dote the marvel of the age for suffering humanity.
—Yours very truly, Professor W. T. Lamont, Ven-
triloquist and Entretenir, 4 Condell-street, Fitz-
roy, opposite Town Hall, 23rd August, 1897.”
Mrs. Laura Sunderland, 80 Bell-street, Fitz-
roy Rheumatic Fever, six months in bed, 12
months on crutches, joints stiffened and useless.
After six weeks’ use of antidote joints completely
cured. Can do all household duties, and has not
used either crutch or stick now for over 12
months.
Miss Mary Davidson, Crimea, Burnell-st.,
West Brunswick : —Rheumatism 10 years, years
°ii and for two years had not walked at
all; all joints contracted, stiffened and perfectly
useless ; life made miserable ; case pronounced
hopeless by leading Melbourne doctors ; tried
everybody and everything without relief. Under
my remedy, contractions come out. Can walk
without aid of crutch or stick; can visit her friends,
and is doing splendidly.
This purely herbal remedy was discovered by
me after years of original research, being perfectly
harmless, and is the true antidote of lactic and
uric acids in the system (the cause of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Joint Swellings, Gout, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.). It cured the above
cases, and many hundred others, in this colony,
and will relieve in a short period, and completely
cure the most obstinate case with a fair trial. I
have used it with the most successful results over
13 years in the East and in Victoria. This secret
remedy is not known to anyone else in the colonies.
Consultation free. Remedy forwarded by post to
any colony, <£l.*
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter. J
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending’ patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NerVoGS WeakoeSs - - .
and
Cerebro-SpiQal Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention this paper when writing .]
CURE OF BAD EYES.
To Mrs. J. Kinlock, 54 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Dear Madam,—Words cannot express the thanks and
feelings of gratitude I owe you for the marvellous cure
you have made of my eyes, with the aid of the Dr. De-
Mobray Balsamic Cure. After suffering fifteen years with
Granulations, and for twelve months blind with Ulceration
your remedy has, after a few months, quite restored my
sight, and the disease has quite disappeared. Your
remedy is simple and wonderful in its effect. I had tried
all the principal doctors in the colony, but without avail.
I am thankful beyond measure, and you have my hearty
permission to make any use you please of this testimonial
and my name in connection with the cure you have
effected with me.—Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH n. BUTLER
(Butler Bros.), Storekeepers, Manly.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO
, . FIRST SHIPMENTS . .
comprising
303 OASES & BALES 303
* . OF . .
New &priQg (Soods*
Bought direct from the teaming Manufacturers
of the World, how Ready for Inspection in all
Departments.
Finney, Isles & Co.
We offer not only EXCEPTIONAL VALUES,
but the LATESl s and MOST FASHIONABLE
GOODS that are produced.
Compare Styles and Prices .
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
■ELLIN'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
sunplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOO
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
World.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Agents. -Elliott Bros., Ltd. ; Australian Drug Co. ;
John Connell & Co., Ltd.
HAIRDRESSERS AND WIG MAKERS
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croqiiignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d.; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG «5c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street, Sydney.
SIGNE.tS ) CIG%TTES
•16 . IV®
y
Q
UG
ML
fs.fehv Vrimolfeki
SUBURBAN RAILWAY STATION PLACARDS.
Railway Official : “ You are liable to a fine for smoking
here."
German Tourist : “ Zen vy f You say schmoke signet
tobacco only. I never smoke any other tobacco."
Tales of the convict system, by
Pbioe Wabung ; Is. 3d. posted.
The Australian Premiers all complain that
they worked harder in England than in Australia
—owing to the volume of theit correspondence. If
Kingston, who took no private secretary, answered
his letters in his own hand, the recent marked
increase of insanity in England is explained.
All through barrister Maxwell’s recent
meeting at Prahran Town Hall could be heard a
strident female screech : “ Do you think 14s. 9d. a
week enough for a woman to keep herself and A
family on?” Maxwell (who had been chairman
of one of the Wages Boards) might expostulate as
he liked, explain as he wOuld, artd deny till he got
red, white and blue; still that strident, uncon-
vinced and unconvincible shriek marched on. He
spoke well and seemed hopeful. But that voice
was an omen.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere!*
Salvation-boss Booth’s basic self-corlceit
erupted violently when he found himself addressed
(itt reply to the Hartny’s message to Queen Vic-
toria! as “General” Booth. “I am a general,
how ! ” he shrieked, “ I have been so addressed by
the Queen herself ! ” The hairy apostle’s snob-
stratum was too violently upheaved to note the
small fact that the style had been conferred upon
him merely by one “ Bigge, Private Secretary.”
S.A. Government has introduced a Bill
authorising the repurchase of large estates (at 15
per cent, above the land-tax valuatiota, plus the
value of improvements as assessed by the land
hoard) to be oUt up ihto small allotments and let
op lease to State tenants. But, Out of respect fob
Proputty, the Bill dobs hot include the right of
Compulsory purchase—a right fob which the
Labor-party strongly contended —so a good deal of
the benefit which might otherwise have been de-
rived from it will probably be lost. A Closer
Settlement scheme without the power of compul-
sory purchase is b ra °tically a cart without any
horse.
Slab from a notice in the N.S.W. Hebrew
Standard on I. Reginald Cohen, the Sydney loan-
office man:—
He now directed his attention to municipal matters,
and, although new to the district, entered into the muni-
cipal struggle last February, and achieved the high dis-
tinction of tying for second place on the poll. His
election was the occasion for a popular outburst, and he
was carried on the shoulders of the people to his house
and back again to the hustings, where he was compelled
to address the people a second time, amidst a scene of
wildest enthusiasm.
Which recalls the literary style of the immortal
novel written by I. Reginald Cohen aforesaid—
who, by the way, is understood to be a candidate
for next N.S.W. Parliament “in the national in-
terest ” at next general election !
An M.P., with a temporary double-bar-
relled vision, left Q. Assembly chamber to get his
hat from the corridor peg-stand before meandering
home. Halting in front of the stand, he saw two
hats. There actually were two hats, his own and
another member’s, but, being logical in his inebria-
tion, he murmured—“ Yesh, all very fine. I shed
two hats. I shaw two Shpeakers, two shairmans
kmittish, ah’ I know all sher time on’y one
apeesh.” Here his optical strength concentrated
itself on the other member’s hat, he regarding his
own (about a foot to the right) as an aberration of
binocular vision. Swaying back and forth, staring
with glassy eye at the strange hat, and lifting his
right arm and pointing his fore-fineer at the
object, he murmured —“ I’ll take that nat. .. .
Yesh, 111 take it. The man that left that hat
there has got mine. I’ll take it. Yesh, he’sh got
mine. Fair doos is fair doos.” Then he made a
grab at it and fell short by six inches, or more.
“ Yer cam’t fool me! I’ll take it. He’sh got
mine. Too long in distance, eh? Mark time ;
one stepsb ter front; marsh !” _ And he bore off
the strange bat in triumph, leaving his own on the
rack.
SSSIIISH
GrO TO HELL-
-IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, W.G., LONDON.
Qodalla Cheese
" m The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
' > o clalla. Bacon
" ” Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
Hams
“ ” In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
229 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
i
the drum
'N POSITION,
Peafocss
AND HEAD
NOISES
By Using
Wilson’s COMMON
Relieved
SENSE EAR DRUMS.
New Scientific Invention.
No Wire or String.
Entirely New Principle.
Safe, Simple, Comfortable, Invisible.
Write for pamphlet. J. Chalmers,
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
—FOR—
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
and INVALIDS.
A Complete Diet in
Itself.
Keeps Perfectly in Hot
Climates*
Wholesale agents for new
SOUTH WALES:
Elliott B ros-i Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
1
0
PAKSoT
Pi Lfcrl
(toOCMS (piP5 £c
Beware of* >j
L /MITAn°NS^
MELBOURNE.
ffloffi?
POST FREE
WATCHES-CLOCKS-JEWELLERY-BiRTHdAY*
WEDDING Z CrißlSTEfillJc PRESENTS
n-NEV/MArJ- 1755177-ELIZABETri ST*
OPPOSITE GtP.Q.
MELBOURNE.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York sts
Sydney Parcel Delivery
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily*
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &c., Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Waggons: Customs Entries Passed.
CANNED SALMON
(FLAT TINS ONLY),
The greatest care being exercised in the selection of the
Fish and Packing enables us to put before the Australian
public the most delicate and fine-flavored brand,
“ Trinmpli.”
This is not an Ordinary, Common, Coarse Salmon as
usually packed in tall tins (composed of small fish and
pieces), but a veritable
SALMON STEAK.
A Large Fish, of Finest Quality, being selected, from
which a Slice is cut and put in the tin.
This Special Brand is Protected by Registration
by the
ln?port Co.,
YORK and KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Wholesale from All the Leading Warehouses.
David graham g (Jo.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
—H —
—H — SCiitiogS
For the Coining Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOE
Cellular Clothing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
©FUNK
war
DISH
SPECIAL!
kiS
DR. j. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
'tslx.if
Safes:
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
Of the Inventor—-
.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
the Illustrated London neWs oi
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
" If I wete asked which single infediciiie 1 should
prefer to take abroad With me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CHLOBODTNfe. I never travel
Without it, aiid its general applicability to the
relief of & large dumber of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.” __
iO YEARS!
With ah increasing demand
PROVES beyond the possi-
bility of a DOUBT that wg
hate the ONLY genuine
Electric Belts, Which will
cure ali NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES iii all stages, how-
ever caused, and restore the
wearer to ROBUST?
HEALTH,
Our Marvellous Electrid
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that Can be felt
by the Weater through all
Weak parts, remem-
ber, We give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do precisely
what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our ELECTRIC ERA and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES, also
TESTIMONY which will convince the most sceptical.
GERMAN "ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor irv any
form, in 2 to 6 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
TATTOO OIL
(THE PERFECT SHEEP MARKER),
IN THREE COLORS,
Black, Red & Blixe,
Is the Only Absolutely Safe
Wool Marking
OR
Sheep Branding Oil.
To avoid injury to the wool, see that the words
“TATTOO OIL” (Registered Trade Mark) and th*
maker’s name, DAVID STORER & SONS, London, art
on each package purchased. All other wool marking oilf
are imperfect imitations.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-street, Sydney;
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Adelaida
Representative : J. C. McCance, 304 Flinders-lane, Melb.
Abernethy’s Health Powders
(From the original prescription, in the handwriting
of the distinguished physician).
Tasteless and unobjectionable. Cure dyspepsia, liver
affections, poverty of blood, pimples, blotches, and other
skin disfigurements. They also definitely eradicate uric
acid in the blood, muscular rheumatism, and gouty com-
plications. The Best Remedy in the world. Send 3s. for
packet of twelve doses, post free throughout Australasia, to
THE ABERNETHY AGENCY, 369 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Any Bushman Will Tell
yon to use
Row’s €ti)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons aro
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CiDbrocatioQ,


A preliminary notice re the Sydney Eight-
Hours Demonstration appears in the advertising
columns of this issue. The event is still a long
way off, and The Bulletin will spread itself in
more elaborate eloquence on the subject in a
future issue.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dr. J. V. Meigs, of Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.,
reports a most uncommon case of broken arm. A
56-year-old woman, engaged in screwing a rubber
nipple on to a baby’s nursing-bottle, felt a snap in
her right arm, followed by a sharp pain and com-
Slete loss of power. Half an hour afterwards Dr.
leigs found an oblique fracture of the humerus
(upper arm) just at the higher end of the bulge of
the biceps.
Dear Bulletin,— Some of the dealers’
carts in Sydney are bedecked with the most
curious mottoes. One I have often seen has on its
dashboard the legend, “She Clings to Thee.” As
we are governed by phrases nowadays, and the
words “general noticeable drop ” (said to be applied
to the average Australian health) attributed to me
by your correspondent, may cling, I beg to dis-
claim them entirely. To the best of my know-
ledge, I never used the phrase quoted in my life.
The animal food impeachment I sorrowfully admit,
for I have always protested against the meat-wor-
ship embodied in the Australian creed.—Yours,
Philip Muskett.
Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
“ The Patentees—Macniven & Cameron —deserve
A NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” —Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen. The Pickwick Pen.
The Owl Pen, The Hindoo Pen.
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Unique result of a surgical operation at
Wellington (M.L.). A Manawatu settler, suffer-
ing from chronic catarrh, had two pieces of
diseased bone removed, to one of which a piece of
discolored paper was adhering. The patient dis-
tinctly remembered sniffing a slip of paper through
his nose 20 years before, when a schoolboy !
A quaint Melb. sect is the Christian
Israelites. The men wear long hair, coiled up
under the hat. The women, some of them very
pretty, like the Quakers, wear the poke-bonnet
and sober greys and drabs. Also, like the
Quakers, they seem to have a fair share of this
world’s goods. They have a “ meeting-house ”in
Fitzroy, but mostly live out Northcote way.
TRY
IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
EILIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
r l
-3
sc*AlL'?
L 3°Ttl£S^
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
ffc(°WNo£p
by it)&
Mdicau
FRO/A
f\Ll.
HOTELS
p SND —>
Spirit
SIX GRAND AGENCIES.
IN THE FINEST AND LARGEST
Piano and Music Warehouse
IN AUSTRALIA
Messrs. Nicholson and No.
SHOW THE MOST SUPERB STOCK
OF
FIAKTOS
Absolutely Unequalled by any other House.
The Grandest Variety of
MUSIC.
BECHSTEIN PIANOS
RONISCH PIANOS
SCHIEDMAYER PIANOS
WILMER PIANOS
MIGNON PIANOS
NANON PIANOS
PIANOS by EVERY MAKER of repute from
England, Germany, and Eranee.
NICHOLSON & COMPANY,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Adanjs Tatt?rsall Hotel,
PITT ST., SYDIsTEY.
AdanjS Caf«, 6'orge Street.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION.
TERMS: FROM Bs. PER DAY.
VISITORS CAN DINE IN HOTEL OR CARE.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Tel. 728
CIGARS FREE
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home j|ule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney. -
ZROJVID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
. ..
t : •:
sw
A.
JP
" i ?
pi'f
%«&•
K
■
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for tlie “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
HOECnOO’S marvellous MIR RESTORER
e^»
I
(V?
TS rightly considered by thousands of people
J- who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
*
52
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
MR HOLLAND Booligal Station, New South Wales.
T . Sir,— l want to get a bottle of your Hair Restorer, but Ido not know the price
It you will let me know, I will send you the money. I have tried various Hair Restorers’
and 1 hnd yonrs far and away the best. I bought a bottle of it when in Melbourne but
it is used up.—l remain, Yours faithfully, j os j Harris.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT” T*
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, ME I, BO (JUNE.
TOBACCO MERCHANT,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DIRECT IMPORTER OF
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
—AND—
Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods.
CUTLERY, BRUSHWARE, SOAP, PERFUMERY, STATIONERY, t’ANCY LEATHER
GOODS; also every description of HAIRDRESSERS’ SUNDRIES.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY ’
WILLIAMS.
—AND—
CIGARS
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA
ALPINA MAMLA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO
Saloons furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment
KW Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HATMARKET, SYDNEY.
Forbes’s PHOSFERRIim
For General Depression, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Appetite, and Poorness of Blood.
It is a specific for Neuralgia, when arising from General Weakness, Worry, Overwork, or Fatigue.
The Gen line is prepared only by
Martin & Pleasance
HOMOEOPATHIC CHEMISTS
180 Collins-St., Melbourne.
Sold in Bottles, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 9d., Post Free.


2/6
CURES PILES.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
2/6
THE OLDEST and MOST RESPECTED
ALDERMAN in SYDNEY (Mr. Alderman
Michael Chapman, of Hereford-street, Forest
Lodge) says:— ~ _,
“ Jt is the most wonderful ointment I have ever
known. It has, after a few applications,
cured me most effectively, and I have had
no trouble for the past eighteen months. I
can recommend it to all.”
STICK TO YOUR OPINION.
HOLD ON TO
Whose Business is
mark fovs,
FIXED HARP aod FAST i»
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
«Our humble province is to ’tend the WINTER FAIR,” which is now
. . IN FULL SWIN6! . .
COU&HS, COLDS ON THE CHEST,
BRONCHITIS AND*ASTHMA,
RAPIDLY C.RED BY .
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure
rrHOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Suf-
-1 ferers from any form of Bronchitis, Distressing Cough, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief,
and to those who are subject to colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a com-
plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irritation in the throat, ana
giving strength to the voice, and it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic.
No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a complete cure is certain.
“MR WG. Hearne.— Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of Bronchitis and
Asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was
scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathingwas so dis-
tressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write you -his
ment from a sense of duty, as in my ease every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medi-
cine I was confined to bed, suffering from a most violent cough expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dosei of the I medunne
gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment until I
became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely, H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
“Will Mr. Hearne please send a bottle of his Bronchitis Cure? I had one two or
three months ago, which effected a speedy cure. —J. WYATT, Geelong.
“Mr. Hearne. —Dear Sir, -Your-Bronchitis Cure has thoroughly cured my
cough. I never coughed since the second dose. lam truly grateful to y°u for it, as I
had tried so many things, but nothing ever did me any good. Yours very truly, C.
MOORE, Little Malop Street, Geelong.”
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Some months ago my little boy got very ill with
bronchitis. My wife heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and got a bottle of it. Ihe ftrsD
dose eased him, and less than half the bottle completely.cured We keep
it in the house now. I persuaded a friend of mine to try it he did so, and it was
just as successful with his children. You are at liberty to make what use you_ like of
this, as I consider your Bronchitis Cure to be a boon that cannot be too w idely •
in fact, I cannot speak too highly of it.-Yours very truly, ARTHUR G. JAMES,
Golden Square, Bendigo.”
“My son six years old, had Bronchitis for 12 months. The noise in throat and
alono- back of lungs, and the cough, caused me great anxiety. I tried several treat-
ments Cough mixtures and poultices were used, and plasters were applied to the
back and chest without success. I bought a large-size bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure and after my boy had taken this medicine for about 10 days he was perfectly
cured.-J. PATTERSON, Solicitor, Tam worth.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in informing you that my father has been im-
nrovino- ever since he started taking your Bronchitis Cure, and now all signs of Bron-
chitis have disappeared.—Yours respectfully, THOS. PAYNE, Jun., Bloomfield, Ever-
ton, Victoria.”
“Mr W G Hearne.— Sir,—Will you kindly forward another bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure ? The bottle yon sent me about three weeks ago thoroughly cured me
of the cough.—Yours truly, H. M‘BEAN, Carlton.”
<1 D ear si r j had occasion to use your Bronchitis Cure, and have been com-
pletely cured by it.—Yours faithfully, J. H. WILLIAMS, Merleswood, Elsternwick,
Victoria.”
“ Dear Sir —Many thanks for forwarding Bronchitis Cure so quickly. It is doing
a lot of good.—Yours faithfully, M. ROSEVEAR, Malvern.”
ii \y Q. Hearne —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack of Bronchitis for six months,
with dreadful hacking cough day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak that I could not leave my bed.
At this sta«-e I was pronounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine of dif-
ferent kinds, but nothing did me any good until reading in the Aob of your Bronchitis
Cure I got a bottle, and after taking two doses I was muoh improved. Aftertaking
two bottles the cough and night sweats left me, my appetite returned, and I was able
to (rpt ur> and am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and shall recom-
mend your Medicine to my friends. —Yours truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill,
Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Heame’s Bronchitis Cure, and
we certify that it was perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which un-
doubtedly prove its distinct healing power." Signed by the Rev. John Sinclair,
Myers-street, Geelong, and fifty-nine other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold Wnolesale and Retail by the Proprietor, W. G. Hea rne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Medicine Vendors. Forward by post to any address when not obtainable locally.
Small size, 2s. 6d.; large, is. 6d. Sold by Chemists and
USE
„«*??**
ROYAL IHINESHE
FOR
i BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
!; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
;;;;;
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
iniminmiLFßflßinuwimiHii
MANUFACTURERS OF . .
Ui?riv/alled
Embrocation,
Universal Cream,
Maori Gloss,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Black Oil,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by air Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &o.
JP.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE. __
QXIBB»r’S HOTEL,
Corner Market and Kent Streets SYDNEY.
J. MURPHY (late of Westralia) desires to inform his
friends and the general public that he has taken the
above Hotel, and intends to conduct the same on first-
olasa lines. Good accommodation for travellers
A Traveller’s Visiting-Card .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Henry James Bell had suddenly
become indisposed during his lawyer-son s wed-
ding. In the church he had flushed, and had
hurried away at the earliest possible moment after
some disjointed words of apology. And now he
insisted that it was utterly impossible for him to
go down to the breakfast.
“Tut, tut,” he said, uneasily, when they sug-
gested a doctor; “ I shall be myself again in a
few minutes. Hugh ! To think I should have
made such a fool of myself—upon no greater pro-
vocation, too, than the boy’s wedding. I m as
bad surely ’’—with a forced laugh that was peril-
ously near a grunt —“ I’m as bad surely as a senti-
mental woman losing her only daughter.
Two hours afterwards the breakfast was over,
and Mr. Bell was roused out of a gloomy reverie
by the coming of the bridegroom.
“ Oh, dad, I do hope this isn’t anything serious.
But even if you are feeling yourself again, it s the
very deuce of a misfortune, isn t it! Why, you
have hardly seen Janet—l don’t believe you even
had time to say six words to her. I m sorrier now
than ever that you couldn’t get over before last
night. Still, from what you did see of her, isn t
s b e a ii 9”
“No doubt, no doubt—all you think her.
Though, as you say, of course, I hardly had time
to see her.” , . . , r
“ Say, shall I bring her up here—just for a
minute or so (she wants to come, I m sure) before
we travel ? She’s fixing up now.”
“ No, no, no ! ” with much energy. At my
time of life, Hugh, after such a warning, one has
“ Dad, I am thoughtless. I’ll own up to it, I,
even I, a young lawyer, am a bit flustered to-day.
But, seriously, I do hate going and leaving you
unwell; I shall feel that I was responsible for it,
But he was assured that the knowledge that
Mr. and Mrs. Bell were happy in their honey-
mooning would bo better medicine than anything
else; and so they said good-bye.
• * * *
Six days ago Mr. Bell, senr., of Tuppa-
nulla station, had met the coach at the I inbar
change, and taken his place on the box. He was
a lusty widower of 53, with an only son ; and the
boy ”—now 26—had startled him with an invita-
tion to come down at short notice to his wedding.
He had no idea who the girl was; her existence
had never before been mentioned. Now he was
told that she was Janet —Janet Chalcross ; and, of
course, a sweet girl that any man would be proud
of. „ *
* * *
“ Got the box to ourselves, eh, driver 1 ”
“ Yessir, except in case a young woman gets on
at the Mulga Springs-some girl from the river ;
I took her luggage on last trip. Most likely,
though, she’ll get inside—most of em do.
She was waiting at the Springs. _ And as she
stepped out to the coach, her clinging travelling-
dress invited the eyes to linger upon a melody in
CU f« V You must let me help’you on to the box ; it is
so much more comfortable. Her travelling-bag,
which he passed up to the boot, served admirably
as a card. This welcome break in the monotony
was Miss 11. IT. Church. Rose, he wondered or
Rachel.
She was just as shy and deferential as he liked a
young woman to be.
She had not travelled much, and she had been
on the river for eight months —at Yarpunga, with
some selector-people. Now she was going down
to stay, and she was very glad. Yes, she was
rather tired of the country ; and she had not seen
any of the latest books. No, she had no friends
in the district—no real friends ; perhaps that was
why she was glad to get away.
There were hours of inconsequential talk of
that kind which is only tolerable, as a rule, be-
cause the alternative is hours of silence. It
takes an old traveller to judiciously blend the two.
Rew experiences are in themselves more weari-
some than a long journey over the central saltbush
plains. You long for the night to come, when you
may, if you are specially fortunate (but you do not
think of that), rest for a couple of hours in a way-
side accommodation house, little matter how rude
a shanty it be. As the daylight dies out your eyes
bore through the gloom, among the low scrub, and
a hundred times you discern the stopping-place m
the distance. And 99 times your weary brain has
played a heartless trick upon your eyes.
Then the merciless night wind of the plains
comes faintly rustling out of the thickening mist,
and you draw your rugs about you and feel for
your flask, and smoke sullenly, and begin to
realise how uncomfortable is even the box-seat of
a coach when it is built for rough backblock use,
and when the night grows dark and there is no
longer any oertainty of guiding the spent team
clear of the ruts.
“You are freezing already, Miss Church, he
said; “ let me wrap my rug round you, too. ”
She was drawn very close to him now. I he
creeping team v/as flicked into the spasm of a
trot as the drowsy driver roused himself, and the
sudden jerk was excuse enough for the passing of
an arm around her.
“ Lay your head there; perhaps you may sleep.
I will take care of you.”
The speech was in whispers now.
“ Good night,” he said, the words to serve as
the prelude for kissing her cheek. “You are sure
you are comfortable ? ” „
“ Very.” The great, faithful eyes, full of ten-
derness, opened into his, and a hand, crept out of
the folds of the rugs, and touched his face for an
ecstatic moment.
“You are good to me,” she said ; I have not
been used to such kindness lately.”
“ Poor child !—they could not have had either
eyes or feelings.”
And so through the night.
* * * *
“ No, don’t ask that, please, please don’t.
I cannot stay: my friends expect me in Melbourne
to-night; will be waiting for me, and I could
never explain it.”
“ But it will be weary travelling alone—for one,
at least. And I could finish my business here to-
morrow.” , . , ..
“Weary for me, too, but I must endure it.
Perhaps *
“ You will let me meet you in town ? Promise
me that, at least. I will write—but where ?
“ But ’’—with a little laugh—“ I could not tell
who the letter was from ; you forget that we knew
each other before we were introduced. You have
been kind enough to tell me everything almost
but that. I know that you are 40, and you
wpr« nearly married once when that areacnu
thing happened, and I hate her already f°r it*
But you were conceited enough ° .
everybody knew you and your na , haven’t
became of any interest to me to know it Invent
had the courage to ask you, it seemed < j
‘‘Absurd —I should say so! Why, James,
Henry James ! This is almost a.joke j
He laughed as boisterously as if it were enti y
a joke And for the moment within himself he
justified the lies and half-lies he had tom- f,° ’
after all,” he said, “ this was mere recreation.
“ So my pleadings must be in vain ,
“ It was pain enough for me to say No to you
once ; now you make me say it again anc ag •
“Then we shall meet m Meibourne Miss
Church? You won't deny me that? You will
send me an address ? ” ,
“Mind, I don’t promise; only perhaps .. .
Good-bye; and many, many thanks. ,
And she settled herself in the carriage, undeter-
mined whether she ought to laugh or e v ® Y
angry with herself. But it was so harmless,she
urged, and he—he was such a delightful old fool.
But she shivered a little as she thought of what
might happen if they really should meet in Mel-
bourne. *
Mr. Henry James Bell got a hurried reply
to a letter of his three days after the wedding
Dear Dad.—What a run ol bad luck 1 If, as you say,
that very important business makes it absolutely neces-
sary for you to go back to Tuppanulla this week, Janet
ancfl won°t* possibly be able to reach Melbourne in Ume
to sav irood-bye. ... By the way, would you mind taking
a parcel for Janet-or, rather, for me; for in
willed way she says she hopes you’ll forget all about it.
When she came down from the country she sent her traps
on ahead, and borrowed a Gladstone bag to travel with.
If it's not too much trouble, leave it at P jPf.X ?her(f
Mr. Church, to whom it belongs, will get it from there.
. . . Your affectionate son, Hugh.
S. H. PRIOR.
The Paris police (says the Lancet) are
now compelled to undergo an elementary course
of midwifery, owing to the frequency with which
women, on their way to maternity hospitals, con-
trive to be confined in cabs.
Besides wrecking the wheat-crop and kill-
ing innumerable horses and cattle, it is estimated
that last season’s drought in S. A. resulted in the
death of 2,500,000 sheep. Mortlock, M.P., alone
lost 50,000 in 1895-6-7.
It would be interesting to know who
“planked” for the Melbourne Club servant,
recently fined for smuggling-in gorgeous English
apparel for some of the club-members. Of course,
he professed to be strictly on his “ own,” but The
Bulletin isn’t going to believe either that the
£lOO-penalty came out of his pocket or that, if he
hadn’t happened to be bowled-out, the gilded
recipients of the articles would have asked any
indiscreet questions about the duty thereon.
Sydney Marine Board would be fitly orna-
mented by the nautical genius who asserts, in a
local weekly, that lighthouses increase the number
of wrecks, because they “ enable vessels to hug the
coast.” Considering that the coaster has to oe a
coaster, and that the deepwaterman never hugs
if he can help it, it would be about as reasonable
to maintain that rudders cause wrecks, because
ships can’t go to sea without them, and the ship
that doesn’t go can’t possibly be wrecked 1
Finger Work.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ Weiss!”
“I notice it.”
“ Can you read-off their talk ? ”
“ You need not whisper. Both are doubly
afflicted. Look ! ” .
With a lightning back-handed movement Weiss
swished the empty pewter to the floor. It clat-
tered noisily to a corner of the commercial room.
The two men facing each other at the opposite
end of the long table turned instantly.
“They heard you, Weiss ! ”
“ No. They saw me—quick as a flash. I was
secretary at the foundation of the Christchurch
Institute.” . „
“The tall one can write, apparently.
“ Looks like a roll of manuscript in his hand.
“ What are they saying, Weiss ? ”
“Rather like eavesdropping, isn t it l
“Eavesdropping by sight.” ,
Their fingers are flicking a bit fast for me tne
tall fellow’s written a short story.”
‘•No’”
“Yes. Keep quiet.’ .
“‘ He attends bush race-meeting . . . with
sound friend. They watch three-card, trick man.
Tall fellow thinks he can pick it. Tries . ._.
loses. Watches. Tries once more . . . again
loses, Again tries . . . picks it this time.
Three-card man pays . . . discovers tall fel-
low’s a mute. Offers him per medium of sound
friend ... a partnership as ‘ buttoner. He
agrees . . . astonishment of sound friend.
. . . Confidence-man works his lips fast and
furiously. Crowd gathers. Confidence-man tips
tall fellow the wink to act as decoy. . . .
Game starts. Tall fellow wins . . of course . . .
General public lose . . . also, of course. Game
starts again . . . similar denouement. . . .
For the third time . . . tall fellow wins . . .
and pockets . . . and . . . retires from the scene
with sound friend. 6 Spieler 9 in background ob-
served working his lips . . . fast . . . most furi-
ously . . . even painfully.” . ,
“ Good for fingers ■ Ask them to have a drink.
Weiss ! ”
“ They say, no thanks.
“ I wonder what paper ? ”
“ Wait! Which do you think ? ”
“For the ?”
“Yes. Fact!” ■ ,
“ They all do it, even the deaf and dumb. Ring
the bell! ”
Maoriland.
TE TACITO.


t
FOR OFFICE OR BUSINESS WEAR.
A Suitable Suit
Come into
£l.
HORDERN’S in Pitt Street, and see them
(Economy it Nature’s first Law), G)
Sent anywhere for a Pound.
GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS.
Another Astounding Cure in Sydney!
35 Years of Suffering,
PHYSICIANS FAILED AND HOSPITALS
UNSUCCESSFUL.
CASE FULLY INVESTIGATED.
Mrs. Gilbert, proprietress of a snug little grocery
business at 87 Abercrombie Place, Chippendale,
Sydney, said to a reporter:—
About 35 years ago (Mrs. Gilbert is 55 years
of age now) I began to have some very distressing
symptoms of ill-health. My stomach would
become distended, and a sour, bitter stuff would
keep coming up into my mouth. I had terrible
pams in my right side and back, and at times I
suffered from terrible bursting headaches. After
a while my circulation became very bad, and my
limbs would become numb and lifeless. Doctors
differed as to the cause. One said I had Bright’s
disease, another dropsy, another said it was con-
gestion of the liver. Sometimes my kidneys would
act involuntarily, and again the pains in my back
would become so unbearable that I could not
sleep. About this time we moved from the old
country to Sydney, and all the way out from Eng-
land I was sick, and instead of the voyage doing
me good I was in bed when we anchored. This
was 13 years ago. Since then the sufferings I
have gone through are beyond description. The
coldness and loss of life in my legs continued to
get worse, and at times I would lose all power to
move them until they were thoroughly rubbed and
the circulation restored. Sometimes I would be
standing at the edge of a table and start to walk
away, and my legs would utterly refuse to act.
Again, I would wake up at nights and would have
to call someone to rub my body before I could
move. My digestion at this time was in a terrible
state, and I was continually vomiting up some
bitter stuff and belching wind, and at times my
head would feel as if the ceiling was pressing
down on it, and I felt as if I was suffocating and
must be taken into the fresh air, and my heart
would flutter and a cold feeling would come over
me like death. I often thought I would be
stricken with paralysis, so numb and lifeless would
my limbs become. I have consulted some of the
best physicians in Sydney and at home; have also
attended the Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, but
only to get ease for a time; patent medicines
and everything I have tried with the same re-
sults, until a few weeks ago my son brought
home some Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills,
which I resolved to try. I followed the directions
very closely, with the result that I have derived
such benefit from them that I feel energetic, full
of life, and have lost all that drowsy, listless feel-
ing—in fact, I feel years younger, my appetite has
increased, and I fully enjoy my meals, and I may
say that I feel like a new woman through and
through.
“ Would I object to have this published ? No !
I should like to let every sufferer in the world
know what I owe to Gould’s Pill’s.” The repre-
sentative, on taking his leave of Mrs. Gilbert,
could not but marvel to himself that this woman,
after suffering so many years and trying so many
things, should be cured by these small little objects
(Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills are little larger
than a pin’s head), and he came to the conclusion
that if a miracle had not been wrought, a great
deal of suffering had been saved, and that if the
world at large only knew of this great preparation
we should have much healthier and happier men
and women.
Headache Cured .
A CASE OF 19 YEARS’ STANDING.
“ St. Woodburn, July 2nd, 1897.
‘ ‘ To E. A. Gould, Sons & Co.
“Sirs,—My mother, Mrs. Phillip Bale, has taken
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills for headaches which
have troubled her for the last nineteen years, no
remedy giving relief. Gould’s Pills were used, and
after the third bottle she found so much benefit
from them that I am going to try them myself,
for, like my mother, I have suffered from severe
attacks of headache. Xam enclosing" stamps for a.
bottle, which you will please address as above.—
I am, yours, &c.,
“Florence Bale.”
Female Weakness .
Women who suffer pain each month can find re-
lief and emancipation from their trouble if they
wish. No woman has the right to be a helpless,
sick, nervous, fretful burden to her husband. If
Tt 6 I 3 ’ -* s ue to er own ignorance or neglect,
if she will take proper care of herself, and look
after the health of the delicate organs that are the
most important parts of her physical make-up,
she will soon be a healthy, amiable helpmate,
instead of a burden to the partner of her joys
and sorrows. To all women who suffer as men-
would highly recommend
GOULDS TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS.
They are small, and easy to take, and will be
found suitable for the most delicate constitution.
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills have been suc-
cessfully used by the first physicians of the United
States for Constipation, Piles, Fulness after Eat-
ipg. Dyspepsia, all Liver and Kidney Troubles,
Debility, General Weakness, &c., and they are
also a specific for Pale and Sallow Complexions
female Irregularities, Heart Palpitation, Short-
ness of Breath after slight exertion, Pain in Back
and Side, and, when used after a heavy meal has
been eaten, they take away that full and disagree-
able feeling.
White-Faced Girls .
Girls who have a white, pasty skin, and who
are troubled with dizziness, buzzing in the head,
loss of appetite, &c. f and who are troubled (as so
many eirls are in this country, from 15 to 21 years
a cure this great specific.
GOULD’S TINY TONIC LIVER PILLS taken
regularly for a few weeks will carry off all the
waste matter from the system, and, instead of a
couple of days every month being spent in misery,
happiness and health will be restored, and the
cheeks will regain their healthy color.
Influenza Cured .
ANOTHER NEWCASTLE CASE.
From present indications we are about to have
another siege of the influenza epidemic that has
annually visited Sydney for some years past.
Now, to escape this dread visitor, Gould’s Tiny
Tonic Liver Pills will be found of great service
as Mr. Thos. Rowe, of 130 Darby-street, New-
castle, can testify. Mr. Rowe was suffering from
a severe liver trouble, for which he was taking
Gould’s Pills. A Newcastle Times reporter,
hearing that he had been cured of his liver trouble,
after doctors had failed, interviewed him, and
in the course of conversation Mr. Rowe said that
he was taken badly with influenza about the time
he commenced taking the pills, but that they
cured the influenza as well as his liver trouble.
Gould’s Tiny Tonic Liver Pills are the great
modern cure for all digestion troubles, debility,
influenza, female weaknes, pale and sallow com*
plexions, and all the results of excesses, such af
fast living, over-eating, over-working, and livinf
an unnatural life of any kind.
4.
Gould 9 s Tiny Pills
CURE
the following amongst other ailments
QUID
Itf
ONI
INDIGESTION
, DEBILITY
NERVOUS HEADACHE
I INFLUENZA
DIZZINESS
CONSTIPATION
CONSTANT PAINS
LIVER TROUBLES
KIDNEY AILMENTS
FEMALE WEAKNESS
PALE & SALLOW COM-
PLEXIONS
LACK OF ENERGY
LACK OF AMBITION,
and all ailments that come
from
OYER-EATING, OVER-
WORKING and OVER-
INDULGENCE OE
ANY KIND.
Obtainable from Chemists
and Storekeepers generally,
or from the Australian
Branch of the E. A. Gould,
Sons and Co., Box 1204,
G.P.0., Sydney, who will
forward (post paid) on re-
ceipt of stamps or post-office
order, one bottle for 2s. 6d., or
half a dozen for 13s. 6d.
Indigestion,
Troubles
Headache, Constipation, and all Liver
Are positively CURED by Tiny Tonic Pills.
A Rhyme of the Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They slope away from Greenwich
To Mother Carey’s ground,
The routes of outward-going,
The tracks of homeward-bound ;
From Melbourne pier to Plymouth,
In level miles are laid
The highways of the waters,
The streets and lanes of trade.
1 hough no man marked a passage,
Though no man blazed the trees,
That other feet might follow
His footsteps on the seas;
I hough no man lit the camp-fire,
Or carried staff and chain,
The pathways of the waters
Were ever placed and plain ;
With, here and there, for milestones,
A roving sailor’s bones;
Or, by some coral cross-roads,
The Inn of Davy Jones,
Where rowdy Jacks make revel
And drunken pirates roar,
St. Elmo’s lights to flicker
Their shadows on the floor.
Perchance, by night, they gather,
A grizzled company,
Who bore the flags of traffic
ri And War across the Sea,
To count the glinting moidores,
Deep-fathomed where they lie,
To watch the cutlass flashing,
And drain their beakers dry.
The silk-and-ruffle gallants
Of Frobisher and Drake,
The brawling men of Morgan,
Mayhap, by Night, awake,
To loot the Spaniard’s cargoes,
To lop the Frenchman’s ears ;
To share again the gleanings
Of Rotterdam Mynheers.
Ohu what gay converse making,
They meet along the roads,
These friends and friendly foemen,
Of storied episodes ;
These simple, pig-tailed heroes,
These wags of Wapping stairs,
These rowdy-dowdy ruffians—
Fire-eaters and corsairs.
The loads they brought and carried
Have left no trace of wheels,
No track of stout car agues,
Or deep Dutch trader’s keels,
Of galleons full-freighted,
Of clumsy brigantines,
Or jaunty India traders
With silks and bugazeens.
But they have trimmed and travelle
Ranges mouth to Thames,
With their stout hulls, low-laden,
Their idol’s eyes and gems.
They scoured the Western oceans,
They ploughed the Eastern seas,
To sell on London markets
Their spices and their teas.
They raced for cotton cargoes
To merry Mobile Bay;
And out of Buenos-Ayres
They walked in brave array
With drums and bugles sounding
And bouncing cannonade,
These Arabs of the ocean
Rode out in cavalcade.
Across the rolling desert,
And, haply, home again,
With rum and sperm and spices,
With Yankee pork and grain,
They trafficked and they traded,
And wealth was any man’s,
With lust of wealth to courage
His white-sailed caravans.
Though Time shall write his traces
Upon the ways of men,
The ways of open waters
Are even now as then ;
But where the sunrise reddened
Columbus’ creeping sail,
Now whirls her great propeller —•
The strong Atlantic mail.
And, where the ships of Ophir
Came crawling southward slow,
Now flaunts in pride of progress
The painted P. and 0.
Aye, where their fearful helmsman
First trimmed his lonely light,
Ablaze, the cargo steamer
Churns onward through the night.
But, circled by the sunrise,
And spread beyond his set,
The breezy roads and bonny
Are rolling bravely yet;
Beneath the grand expanses
r Of guiding, starlit sky,
The tracks the rovers travelled
Still wide, unbounded lie.
And till old Gabriel’s trumpet
Shall echo overhead,
And from their place of biding
Come up the wakened dead ;
Till lost ships all deliver
Their long-forgotten loads,
Still will they shine and sparkle
The splendid water roads.
Sydney, 1897.
E. J. BRADY.
Incidents.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I.
The rain pattered on the pavements, and, splash-
ing big drops in the puddles, made the road, in
the garish gaslight, seem as if alive with little
dancing water-imps that jigged and jumped.
Carriages rolled up to the portico, each with two
big, round, staring eyes of light boring beams
through the rain-streaked gloom. From within
the hall came sounds of music. Under the portico
stood a gaping crowd, such as is always to be seen
when the poor have an opportunity of revelling in
the pleasure of envy by gazing upon the garniture
of the rich.
The carriages stood in a row, dripping. They
were waiting to set down their occupants. On
the outskirts of the crowd crouched two tiny,
shivering figure. They were bare-footed and wet
to the skin. One was a boy; he had sold his
evening papers. His companion was a flower and
match girl. The rain trickled down her dank
Hair which hung over her shoulders like a bundle
of eels.
A carriage rolled up, within which sat a wealthy
magnate and his daughter. The yellow gaslight
fell upon her bright, girlish face, and discovered
traces of gold in her soft, brown, curling hair,
one was laughing joyously.
There was a block of traffic, and the procession
ot vehicles was delayed. The little flower-girl
tvh s * :e P of the carriage and peeped in.
lovel ’’ 1 S^6 exc^a ’ mec h “the lydy is just
The man inside cried, “Go away ! ” and reached
for the blind ; but his daughter, with a tender
grace, laid her hand upon his arm and stopped
mm. I hen she kissed the tips of her gloved
* in § er J l :l °d smiled to the sodden child without;
and the carriage passed on.
“Oh my ! Billy,” exclaimed the girl, while a
rcongled with the rain-drops on her cheek,
the lydy kissed her hand to me. She’s a real
lydy, she is.”
But Billy only said “ Gam ! ”
11.
The gloaming tenderly touched the streets,
and subdued the harsh contrasts magically. The
shops were beginning to light up. Electric lamps
flashed suddenly into illumination, puncturing the
gathering mists with silvern points of light.
Everything was softened to the eye, except the
red and green lamps of the trams which rumbled
past, splashing the dusk with color. A woman
brushed against a pedestrian, and muttered the
insiduously familiar salutation of her class. He
shrank from her, and sauntered on; she leered
back over her shoulder.
Just then a. high English dog-cart, driven by a
fashionably-dressed woman, dashed round the
corner at a spanking pace. A small, white mon-
grel terrier was crossing the road. It was con-
fused between an approaching tram and the
dog-cart, and the lady therein cut at it with her
whip as she passed. The wretched little brute
gave a yell of pain and scampered for the pave-
ment; but, in its fright, it ran under the legs of
the horses of another carriage, and rolled over,
howling piteously. The woman in the dog-cart
lookedback and smiled. The incident amused
her The dog lay there ;it tried to move, but one
leg dangled helpless and broken, and the creature
yelped in agony.
The harlot who had accosted the pedestrian
turned back. “Poor little devil!” she said ;
what a damned shame ! ”
• n , s^e , Peeked up the dog in her arms: it
licked her hand and whined. She crossed the
street and carried it into a chemist’s shop.
D. BOUVERIE.
A local Chow was so flabbergasted at the
sight of the immense cabbages and fine cauli-
flowers grown at Gatton (Q.) Agricultural College
that he burst in on Prof. Shelton with a proposi-
tion : You glowee cabbagee, welly goo; cauli-
liowee, all li. Me boss longee my countlee. Spose
you glowee cabbagee allee same longee me, me
payee you one pow week, and buyee all you cab-
bagee allee same, too ? ... No? Two pow week?
. . . No ? Then tu lee ah mutch a chee pah ! ” —
or words to that effect, as he howled himself back
to his deserted pig-pen.
Starr’s “First Class,"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The devil’s loose; be your way in three or four
days.”
So ran a telegram from Klein, teaoher of
Jonesville Public School, to Starr, of Colarc
Public.
Starr understood.
Each man has his own peouliar devil. The
devil, however, of Klein’s telegram was, as
will be seen by Klein’s statement, of wander-
ing tendency, therefore not the devil of one but of
many, making hence an extra devil—to some.
He was a small, pinched-faced man, having a
thin, sharp voice.
He had the pained, worried look of the teaoher
who always expects better results from his work
than he receives, blaming not himself, but his
pupils.
He was School-inspector Groove.
He had worked so long on the same lines, ex-
amined so frequently in the same standards under
the same system, that he had grown to ask the
same questions in the same subjects, to give the
same list of catchy words for dictation, set the
same questions in arithmetic, and examine
generally in the same manner at every sohool
which he visited.
Occasionally he became conscious of the hold
the system had upon him, and then he roused
himself to strike out a new path, which differed
from the old in the following marked degree.
Arithmetic (old system).—lf syds. of cloth cost
£7 12s. 6d., what would 15yds. cost at the same
rate ?
Arithmetic (new idea).—lf £7 12s. 6d. will
Siurchase syds. of cloth, what should be paid for
syds. at the same rate ?
The former problem he would give to the pupils
of Jonesville, the latter to those of Colaro, and
so on.
“Thanks, send along questions,” wired Starr
in reply.
The questions duly arrived.
Soon after came also Inspector Groove ; but the
hours between the coming of “the devil ” and the
receipt of the questions had been well used by
Starr.
“ Astonishing results in arithmetic ! Excellent!
These alone would get you a first-class certificate.
I shall certainly recommend you for promotion
forthwith.” Thus Inspector Groove on filling in
his report of Golaro Public.
Starr got his “ First-class .”
He does not, however, consider himself a suc-
cessful teacher, but rather a man who happily
learned the effect of system and routine upon men
and turned the knowledge to his advantage.
Unnecessary to say what Inspector Groove
thinks. Xis equal to Y, therefore Yis equal to X.
A.G.A.


distinguished testimony.
His Honour, William F. Courtney, Mayor of Lowell, writes under date October
31st, 1896, of the benefit he derived from Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
m
%
i
i
'A
%
\jo
“I have great faith in the healing virtues of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, be-
cause it has helped me. The medicine cured me of indigestion, which had
troubled me seriously for several years.
'Since I began taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla my appetite has improved,
I have slept better, and in fact my health in general has been greatly
benefited.” ~ »
r- we take pleasure in reproducing above the portrait and testimony or
Mayor Courtney, whose services in the cause of good municipal govern-
ment have been recognized in his recent election to the mayoralty of his
native city for the third year in succession. His experience is the same
as that of thousands of other people, of all sorts and conditions, who
have found freedom from sickness, and restored health and strength in
the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.” There are many worth-
less imitations seeking to profit by the world-wide reputation of
Ayer’s SarsaparilSa.
See that the name— Ayer's Sarsaparilla— is on the wrapper, and blown
in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. 0. Ayer Cb Co., Dowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
The
Mighty Healer .
HAVE YOU A COUGH?
A DOSE WILL RELIEVE IT.
HAVE YOU A COLD ?
A DOSE at BEDTIME WILL REMOVE IT.
ESTAB. 21 YEARS.
Try it for a Cough
Try it for a Cold.
Try itfor Whooping-Cough
hi a- OUr Lung Tonio has done wonders for me in stopping my cough and
Bleeding from the lungs. It certainly is a wonderful medicine. I have spent
pounds, and all to no good, before I tried it.”
ADA FLETCHER, 146 Lawson Street, Darlington.
lIA#I
'JQmgTonlc.
"Tour Lung Tonic I hare used for yean. I think it my duty to let
bathers know how valuable a medicine it is for the car* of colds. I havefouad
r invaluable benefit from it, and could not carry on my profession withoutit."
M. BIBBERO, Professor of Swimming, 41« Mile Bad Road, London.
Try it for Consumption.
jTry it for Bronchitis.
Try it for Asthma.
IT NEVER FAILS.
Prefared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in Bottles, Is. ljd., as. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and Us., by all Chemist* and Patent
Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
BOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
mi
%
©
i
y
=55
MUST BE ENDURED
butnWe voutned
£/
r
w
3
m
3
m
32
9
ST- V
fH£Ypfcllf£W?RTH LIVING.
EASY RUNNING
“NEW HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
Perfect in Every Particular.
The Best Attachments, the Finest Wood-
work, and all the Very Latest
Improvements.
newnational&Tdeal
HAND MACHINES
(Made by the ISiew Home Co).
MANGLES, CLOCKS & PERAMBULATOR
Having been appointed Agents
for MADAME WEIGEL, we can
now supply her well-known
Cut Paper Patterns
Catalogues, 3d.; by post, 4d.
Journals, 4d.; I>y post, sd.
Needles,
Fittings,
AND
Repairs.
We keep a stock of Needles,
Belts, Oil and Fittings to suit
any Sewing Machine ever sold
in Australia, and having a staff
of Competent Mechanics can
guarantee to thoroughly Repair
Sewing Machines of any mat >
STYLE No. 14.
£9 9s. CASH. £lO 108. TIME PAYMENT
WRITE FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
"New Home” Hand Machine.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket). SYDNEY.
280 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 Queen Street, Brisbane.
-
A GOLDEN SHANTY
*
PRICE Is. per Post, I*. 3d.


g/j
“Pdbcc
J >
* flubec’
HIGH-CLASS
Egyptian . .
Cigarettes.
Sold by the Leading Tobacco-
nists and Clubs of Australia.
/-THE- 1
Ballet <sirl,
with 22 racy illustra-
trations, depicting her
Theatrical and Pomes-
tic life
Post Free XI->
Also The Life, Adven-
tures and Confessions
of a Sydney Barmaid.
A true account of Private and Public Bars, and the
Manners, Habits, Customs and Morals of Barmaids, with
a glance at the Patrons of Private Bars. Highly interest-
ing and original. Post Free 1/6. Only of
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoQ P6ti)pii)g Ei)gii)e Conjpaijy.
(Australasian Branch.) Simpson Brothers. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
Sydney, X.S.W.
A.gencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terraoe
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARES & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept Iml Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
PF" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these giand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of su t'erers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are suonlied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
NOTICE.
Reader* of The Bulletin, where -
ever situatedl, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—OOMFOETDia
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which las done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-? TAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Came, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment) -92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade-for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE, 1 ' 25 HARBOUR STREET-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Everywh.ere. 11. PA.TESON, MANAGER.
THING QOIT€
]}
1
m
m* 5
FOB THREADING PIPE.
WITH TWO
HANDLES AS
AN ORDINARY
STOCK.
WITH ONE HANDLE AS A RATCHET STOCK.
THE!
OSTER PBTEIT ID3USIHBEE DIE STOCKS
AND
SCREW PLATES.
With Quick-Opening and Self Centering Dies and Guides.
Instantly adjusted and released from the work
without running back over the finished threads.
One stock will thread and cut off from four to seven sizes 01 pipe, and requires no hammer,
wrench, or other tool to operate it. Fitted with ratchet gear for right or left hand. Cuts irre-
gular pipes to a uniform size, and threads perfectly in one operation. For sale by all the leading
hardware houses throughout Australasia. Further particulars on application to
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
Sole Agents for the celebrated Swedish “Three Bullet” brand Octagon Mining Steel.
THE - - ALL SINGEK SEWING MACHINES.
VIBRATOR AQfdT T A TtYR THE " '
OoCILLAIUR nu v™ QTTTITR
AEE SINGER SEWING MACHINES. VJ 1 111 111 U ill VJE
Batho’s Bak|ng powder _
Scale of
tt
THE
Advertising
-IN—
BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions)
One Year ~ (52 insertions)
Paragraph Advertisements
An EXTRA DISCOUNT of 5 per oent. allowed for cash
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ . „
25 ~
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
i n ad vance.
BoQQiOgtOQ’S
IRISH MOSS
Once Used always Used. As Safe as it is Certain.
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic),
” INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers. It clears the Throat,
Removes all Huskiness, and Causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
Beware Cheap Substitutes. See you get Bonnington’s.
